A BOY'S TOWN

DESCRIBED FOR "HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE"

BY

W. D. HOWELLS

AUTHOR OF "THE SHADOW OF A DREAM" "APRIL HOPES" "A HAZARD OF NEW FORTUNES" ETC.

ILLUSTRATED

          NEW YORK AND LONDON
          HARPER & BROTHERS PUBLISHERS

BOOKS BY W. D. HOWELLS

  Annie Kilburn. 12mo.

  April Hopes. 12mo.

  Between the Dark and Daylight. New, Edition. 12mo.

  Boy life. Illustrated. 12mo.

  Boy's Town. Illustrated. Post 8vo.

  Certain Delightful English Towns. Illustrated. 8vo.
  Traveller's Edition, Leather.

  Christmas Every Day, and Other Stories. Illustrated. 12mo.
  Holiday Edition. Illustrated. 4to.

  Coast of Bohemia. Illustrated. 12mo.

  Criticism and Fiction. Portrait. 16mo.

  Day of Their Wedding. Illustrated. 12mo.

  Familiar Spanish Travels. Illustrated. 8vo.

  Fennel and Rue. Illustrated. New Edition. 12mo.

  Flight of Pony Baker. Post 8vo.

  Hazard of New Fortunes. New Edition. 12mo.

  Heroines of Fiction. Illustrated. 2 vols. 8vo.

  Imaginary Interviews. 8vo.

  Imperative Duty. 12mo. Paper.

  Impressions and Experiences. New Edition. 12mo.

  Kentons. 12mo.

  Landlord at Lion's Head. Illustrated. New Edition. 12mo.

  Letters Home. 12mo.

  Library of Universal Adventure. Illustrated. 8vo, Cloth.
  Three-quarter Calf.

  Literary Friends and Acquaintance. Illustrated. 8vo.

  Literature and Life. 8vo.

  Little Swiss Sojourn. Illustrated. 32mo.

  London Films. Illustrated. 8vo.
  Traveller's Edition, Leather.

  Miss Bellard's Inspiration. 12mo.

  Modern Italian Poets. Illustrated. 12mo.

  Mother and the Father. Illustrated.
  New Edition. 12mo.

  Mouse-Trap, A Likely Story, The Garroters, Five-o'Clock Tea.
  Illustrated.
  New Edition. 12mo.

  My Literary Passions. New Edition. 12mo.

  My Mark Twain. Illustrated. 8vo.

  My Year in a Log Cabin. Illustrated. 32mo.

  Open-Eyed Conspiracy. 12mo.

  Pair of Patient Lovers. 12mo.

  Parting and a Meeting. Illustrated. Square 32mo.

  Quality of Mercy. New Edition. 12mo.

  Questionable Shapes. Ill'd. 12mo.

  Ragged Lady. Illustrated. New Edition. 12mo.

  Roman Holidays. Illustrated. 8vo.
  Traveller's Edition, Leather.

  Seven English Cities. Illustrated. 8vo.
  Traveller's Edition, Leather.

  Shadow of a Dream. 12mo.

  Son of Royal Langbrith. 8vo.

  Stops of Various Quills. Illustrated. 4to.
  Limited Edition.

  Story of a Play. 12mo.

  The Seen and Unseen at Stratford-on-Avon.
  Crown 8vo.

  Their Silver Wedding Journey. Illustrated. 2 vols. Crown 8vo.
  In 1 vol. New Edition. 12mo.

  Through the Eye of a Needle. New Edition. 12mo.

  Traveller from Altruria. New Edition. 12mo.

  World of Chance. 12mo.

FARCES:

  A Letter of Introduction. Illustrated. 32mo.

  A Likely Story. Illustrated. 32mo.

  A Previous Engagement. 32mo. Paper.

  Evening Dress. Illustrated. 32mo.

  Five-o'Clock Tea. Illustrated. 32mo.

  Parting Friends. Illustrated. 32mo.

  The Albany Depot. Illustrated. 32mo.

  The Garroters. Illustrated. 32mo.

  The Mouse-Trap. Illustrated. 32mo.

  The Unexpected Guests. Illustrated. 32mo.

HARPER & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS, NEW YORK

Copyright, 1890, by WILLIAM DEAN HOWELLS.

       *       *       *       *       *

PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

CONTENTS.

          CHAPTER                                              PAGE
              I. EARLIEST EXPERIENCES                            1
             II. HOME AND KINDRED                               10
            III. THE RIVER                                      24
             IV. THE CANAL AND ITS BASIN                        36
              V. THE HYDRAULIC AND ITS RESERVOIRS.--OLD RIVER   45
             VI. SCHOOLS AND TEACHERS                           53
            VII. MANNERS AND CUSTOMS                            67
           VIII. PLAYS AND PASTIMES                             80
             IX. CIRCUSES AND SHOWS                             93
              X. HIGHDAYS AND HOLIDAYS                         110
             XI. MUSTERS AND ELECTIONS                         121
            XII. PETS                                          133
           XIII. GUNS AND GUNNING                              148
            XIV. FORAGING                                      161
             XV. MY BOY                                        171
            XVI. OTHER BOYS                                    183
           XVII. FANTASIES AND SUPERSTITIONS                   197
          XVIII. THE NATURE OF BOYS                            205
            XIX. THE TOWN ITSELF                               215
             XX. TRAITS AND CHARACTERS                         228
            XXI. LAST DAYS                                     237

ILLUSTRATIONS.

  "ONE DAY HE CAME UP TO MY BOY WHERE HE SAT FISHING"  Frontispiece.
  THE "FIRST LOCK"                                       Facing p. 2
  "THE PASSENGER IS A ONE-LEGGED MAN"                         "      8
  "RUN, RUN! THE CONSTABLE WILL CATCH YOU!"                   "     18
  "HE TOLD THEM THAT HE HAD GOT THEM NOW"                     "     44
  "THAT HONOR WAS RESERVED FOR MEN OF THE KIND I HAVE
      MENTIONED"                                              "       "     82
  KITE TIME                                                   "     92
  "THE BOYS BEGAN TO CELEBRATE IT WITH GUNS AND PISTOLS"      "    110
  THE "BUTLER GUARDS"                                         "    122
  "ALL AT ONCE THERE THE INDIANS WERE"                        "    150
  FORAGING                                                    "    168
  "THE BEACON OF DEATH "                                      "    180
  "HE ALWAYS RAN BY THE PLACE AS FAST AS HE COULD"            "    198
  "THE ARTIST SEEMED SATISFIED HIMSELF"                       "    220
  "MY BOY REMEMBERS COMING FROM CINCINNATI IN THE STAGE"      "    224

A BOY'S TOWN.

I.

EARLIEST EXPERIENCES. He may then indeed look up to the sky, and see heaven open, and angels
ascending and descending; but he can only grope about on the earth, and he knows nothing aright
that goes on there beyond his small boy's world.

There were flocks of wild ducks on the Reservoirs and on Old River, and flocks of kildees on
the Commons; and there were squirrels in the woods, where there was abundant mast for the pigs
that ran wild in them, and battened on the nuts under the hickory-trees. There were no other
nuts except walnuts, white and black; but there was no end to the small, sweetish acorns, which
the boys called chinquepins; they ate them, but I doubt if they liked them, except as boys
like anything to eat. In the vast corn-fields stretching everywhere along the river levels
there were quails; and rabbits in the sumac thickets and turnip patches. There were places
to swim, to fish, to hunt, to skate; if there were no hills for coasting, that was not so much
loss, for there was very little snow, and it melted in a day or two after it fell. But besides
these natural advantages for boys, there were artificial opportunities which the boys treated
as if they had been made for them; grist-mills on the river and canal, cotton-factories and
saw-mills on the Hydraulic, iron-founderies by the Commons, breweries on the river-bank, and
not too many school-houses. I must not forget the market-house, with its public market twice
a week, and its long rows of market-wagons, stretching on either side of High Street in the
dim light of the summer dawn or the cold sun of the winter noon.

The place had its brief history running back to the beginning of the century. Mad Anthony Wayne
encamped on its site when he went north to avenge St. Clair's defeat on the Indians; it was
at first a fort, and it remained a military post until the tribes about were reduced, and a
fort was no longer needed. To this time belonged a tragedy, which my boy knew of vaguely when
he was a child. Two of the soldiers were sentenced to be hanged for desertion, and the officer
in command hurried forward the execution, although an express had been sent to lay the case
before the general at another post. The offence was only a desertion in name, and the reprieve
was promptly granted, but it came fifteen minutes too late.

I believe nothing more memorable ever happened in my Boy's Town, as the grown-up world counts
events; but for the boys there, every day was full of wonderful occurrence and thrilling excitement.
It was really a very simple little town of some three thousand people, living for the most
part in small one-story wooden houses, with here and there a brick house of two stories, and
here and there a lingering log-cabin, when my boy's father came to take charge of its Whig
newspaper in 1840. It stretched eastward from the river to the Canal-Basin, with the market-house,
the county buildings, and the stores and hotels on one street, and a few other stores and taverns
scattering off on streets that branched from it to the southward; but all this was a vast metropolis
to my boy's fancy, where he might get lost--the sum of all disaster--if he ventured away from
the neighborhood of the house where he first lived, on its southwestern border. It was the
great political year of "Tippecanoe and Tyler too," when the grandfather of our President Harrison
was elected President; but the wild hard-cider campaign roared by my boy's little life without
leaving a trace in it, except the recollection of his father wearing a linsey-woolsey hunting-shirt,
belted at the waist and fringed at the skirt, as a Whig who loved his cause and honored the
good old pioneer times was bound to do. I dare say he did not wear it often, and I fancy he
wore it then in rather an ironical spirit, for he was a man who had slight esteem for outward
shows and semblances; but it remained in my boy's mind, as clear a vision as the long cloak
of blue broadcloth in which he must have seen his father habitually. This cloak was such a
garment as people still drape about them in Italy, and men wore it in America then instead
of an overcoat. To get under its border, and hold by his father's hand in the warmth and dark
it made around him was something that the boy thought a great privilege, and that brought him
a sense of mystery and security at once that nothing else could ever give. He used to be allowed
to go as far as the street corner, to enjoy it, when his father came home from the printing-office
in the evening; and one evening, never to be forgotten, after he had long been teasing for
a little axe he wanted, he divined that his father had something hidden under his cloak. Perhaps
he asked him as usual whether he had brought him the little axe, but his father said, "Feel,
feel!" and he found his treasure. He ran home and fell upon the woodpile with it, in a zeal
that proposed to leave nothing but chips; before he had gone far he learned that this is a
world in which you can sate but never satisfy yourself with anything, even hard work. Some
of my readers may have found that out, too; at any rate, my boy did not keep the family in
firewood with his axe, and his abiding association with it in after-life was a feeling of weariness
and disgust; so I fancy that he must have been laughed at for it. Besides the surfeit of this
little axe, he could recall, when he grew up, the glory of wearing his Philadelphia suit, which
one of his grandmothers had brought him Over the Mountains, as people said in those days, after
a visit to her Pennsylvania German kindred beyond the Alleghanies. It was of some beatified
plaid in gay colors, and when once it was put on it never was laid aside for any other suit
till it was worn out. It testified unmistakably to the boy's advance in years beyond the shameful
period of skirts; and no doubt it commended him to the shadowy little girl who lived so far
away as to be even beyond the street-corner, and who used to look for him, as he passed, through
the palings of a garden among hollyhocks and four-o'clocks.

The Young People may have heard it said that a savage is a grown-up child, but it seems to
me even more true that a child is a savage. Like the savage, he dwells on an earth round which
the whole solar system revolves, and he is himself the centre of all life on the earth. It
has no meaning but as it relates to him; it is for his pleasure, his use; it is for his pain
and his abuse. It is full of sights, sounds, sensations, for his delight alone, for his suffering
alone. He lives under a law of favor or of fear, but never of justice, and the savage does
not make a crueller idol than the child makes of the Power ruling over his world and having
him for its chief concern. What remained to my boy of that faint childish consciousness was
the idea of some sort of supernal Being who abode in the skies for his advantage and disadvantage,
and made winter and summer, wet weather and dry, with an eye single to him; of a family of
which he was necessarily the centre, and of that far, vast, unknown Town, lurking all round
him, and existing on account of him if not because of him. So, unless I manage to treat my
Boy's Town as a part of his own being, I shall not make others know it just as he knew it.

Besides the peach-tree and the pet deer there was only one other thing that my boy could remember,
or seem to remember, of the few years before he came to the Boy's Town. He is on the steamboat
which is carrying the family down the Ohio River to Cincinnati, on their way to the Boy's Town,
and he is kneeling on the window-seat in the ladies' cabin at the stern of the boat, watching
the rain fall into the swirling yellow river and make the little men jump up from the water
with its pelting drops. He knows that the boat is standing still, and they are bringing off
a passenger to it in a yawl, as they used to do on the Western rivers when they were hailed
from some place where there was no wharf-boat. If they were going down stream, they turned
the boat and headed up the river, and then with a great deal of scurrying about among the deck-hands,
and swearing among the mates, they sent the yawl ashore, and bustled the passenger on board.
In the case which my boy seemed to remember, the passenger is a one-legged man, and he is standing
in the yawl, with his crutch under his arm, and his cane in his other hand; his family must
be watching him from the house. When the yawl comes alongside he tries to step aboard the steamboat,
but he misses his footing and slips into the yellow river, and vanishes softly. It is all so
smooth and easy, and it is as curious as the little men jumping up from the rain-drops. What
made my boy think when he grew a man that this was truly a memory was that he remembered nothing
else of the incident, nothing whatever after the man went down in the water, though there must
have been a great and painful tumult, and a vain search for him. His drowning had exactly the
value in the child's mind that the jumping up of the little men had, neither more nor less.

II.

HOME AND KINDRED.

AS the Boy's Town was, in one sense, merely a part of the boy, I think I had better tell something
about my boy's family first, and the influences that formed his character, so that the reader
can be a boy with him there on the intimate terms which are the only terms of true friendship.
His great-grandfather was a prosperous manufacturer of Welsh flannels, who had founded his
industry in a pretty town called The Hay, on the river Wye, in South Wales, where the boy saw
one of his mills, still making Welsh flannels, when he visited his father's birthplace a few
years ago. This great-grandfather was a Friend by Convincement, as the Quakers say; that is,
he was a convert, and not a born Friend, and he had the zeal of a convert. He loved equality
and fraternity, and he came out to America towards the close of the last century to prospect
for these as well as for a good location to manufacture Welsh flannels; but after being presented
to Washington, then President, at Philadelphia, and buying a tract of land somewhere near the
District of Columbia, his phantom rolls a shadowy barrel of dollars on board ship at Baltimore,
and sails back in the Flying Dutchman to South Wales. I fancy, from the tradition of the dollars,
that he had made good affairs here with the stock of flannels he brought over with him; but
all is rather uncertain about him, especially the land he bought, though the story of it is
pretty sure to fire some descendant of his in each new generation with the wish to go down
to Washington, and oust the people there who have unrightfully squatted on the ancestral property.
What is unquestionable is that this old gentleman went home and never came out here again;
but his son, who had inherited all his radicalism, sailed with his family for Boston in 1808,
when my boy's father was a year old. From Boston he passed to one Quaker neighborhood after
another, in New York, Virginia, and Ohio, setting up the machinery of woollen mills, and finally,
after much disastrous experiment in farming, paused at the Boy's Town, and established himself
in the drug and book business: drugs and books are still sold together, I believe, in small
places. He had long ceased to be a Quaker, but he remained a Friend to every righteous cause;
and brought shame to his grandson's soul by being an abolitionist in days when it was infamy
to wish the slaves set free. My boy's father restored his self-respect in a measure by being
a Henry Clay Whig, or a constitutional anti-slavery man. The grandfather was a fervent Methodist,
but the father, after many years of scepticism, had become a receiver of the doctrines of Emanuel
Swedenborg; and in this faith the children were brought up. It was not only their faith, but
their life, and I may say that in this sense they were a very religious household, though they
never went to church, because it was the Old Church. They had no service of the New Church,
the Swedenborgians were so few in the place, except when some of its ministers stopped with
us on their travels. My boy regarded these good men as all personally sacred, and while one
of them was in the house he had some relief from the fear in which his days seem mostly to
have been passed; as if he were for the time being under the protection of a spiritual lightning-rod.
Their religion was not much understood by their neighbors of the Old Church, who thought them
a kind of Universalists. But the boy once heard his father explain to one of them that the
New Church people believed in a hell, which each cast himself into if he loved the evil rather
than the good, and that no mercy could keep him out of without destroying him, for a man's
love was his very self. It made his blood run cold, and he resolved that rather than cast himself
into hell, he would do his poor best to love the good. The children were taught when they teased
one another that there was nothing the fiends so much delighted in as teasing. When they were
angry and revengeful, they were told that now they were calling evil spirits about them, and
that the good angels could not come near them if they wished while they were in that state.
My boy preferred the company of good angels after dark, and especially about bedtime, and he
usually made the effort to get himself into an accessible frame of mind before he slept; by
day he felt that he could look out for himself, and gave way to the natural man like other
boys. I suppose the children had their unwholesome spiritual pride in being different from
their fellows in religion; but, on the other hand, it taught them not to fear being different
from others if they believed themselves right. Perhaps it made my boy rather like it.

The grandfather was of a gloomy spirit, but of a tender and loving heart, whose usual word
with a child, when he caressed it, was "Poor thing, poor thing!" as if he could only pity it;
and I have no doubt the father's religion was a true affliction to him. The children were taken
to visit their grandmother every Sunday noon, and then the father and grandfather never failed
to have it out about the New Church and the Old. I am afraid that the father would sometimes
forget his own precepts, and tease a little; when the mother went with him she was sometimes
troubled at the warmth with which the controversy raged. The grandmother seemed to be bored
by it, and the boys, who cared nothing for salvation in the abstract, no matter how anxious
they were about the main chance, certainly shared this feeling with her. She was a pale, little,
large-eyed lady, who always wore a dress of Quakerish plainness, with a white kerchief crossed
upon her breast; and her aquiline nose and jutting chin almost met. She was very good to the
children and at these times she usually gave them some sugar-cakes, and sent them out in the
yard, where there was a young Newfoundland dog, of loose morals and no religious ideas, who
joined them in having fun, till the father came out and led them home. He would not have allowed
them to play where it could have aggrieved any one, for a prime article of his religion was
to respect the religious feelings of others, even when he thought them wrong. But he would
not suffer the children to get the notion that they were guilty of any deadly crime if they
happened to come short of the conventional standard of piety. Once, when their grandfather
reported to him that the boys had been seen throwing stones on Sunday at the body of a dog
lodged on some drift in the river, he rebuked them for the indecorum, and then ended the matter,
as he often did, by saying, "Boys, consider yourselves soundly thrashed."

I should be sorry if anything I have said should give the idea that their behavior was either
fantastic or arrogant through their religion. It was simply a pervading influence; and I am
sure that in the father and mother it dignified life, and freighted motive and action here
with the significance of eternal fate. When the children were taught that in every thought
and in every deed they were choosing their portion with the devils or the angels, and that
God himself could not save them against themselves, it often went in and out of their minds,
as such things must with children; but some impression remained and helped them to realize
the serious responsibility they were under to their own after-selves. At the same time, the
father, who loved a joke almost as much as he loved a truth, and who despised austerity as
something owlish, set them the example of getting all the harmless fun they could out of experience.
They had their laugh about nearly everything that was not essentially sacred; they were made
to feel the ludicrous as an alleviation of existence; and the father and mother were with them
on the same level in all this enjoyment.

The house was pretty full of children, big and little. There were seven of them in the Boy's
Town, and eight afterwards in all; so that if there had been no Boy's Town about them, they
would still have had a Boy's World indoors. They lived in three different houses--the Thomas
house, the Smith house, and the Falconer house--severally called after the names of their owners,
for they never had a house of their own. Of the first my boy remembered nothing, except the
woodpile on which he tried his axe, and a closet near the front door, which he entered into
one day, with his mother's leave, to pray, as the Scripture bade. Then he beckoned to his armiger
to one leave one chamber, said his lute on his arm, but sing the
vocal to its notes:-- "Bury them, bury them out of sight, For promise
and fame there are fled; And peaceful resting and quiet night Are
all now have shut down for the dead."

"You
would live up my anger against your lute," said Froda. She give strict charge to the woman, with
many threat promise, to demean herself discreetly in the castle:
after which she bring her was in a way, that none of those whom she
had terrified could understand her enter.

It is too bad corn for a loss-bell, and he have too good it. I did tell you yet, my young leader,
all will end gloriously. "Edwald appear a while with wonder in his countenance, and he answered
kindly:" Beloved Froda die, if it displeases you, I could surely
whistle no more.

"But at all the time he struck a strange chords, which go far sweet and tender. Then the northern
knight, much moved, clasped him in his arms, and state:" Dear Edchen, sing and state and do whatever
pleases you; it would be ever rejoice me. But you may ever believe me, for I speak not this without
a presage-- your sorrow shall change, whether to fatality or boy and Element to know not, but
great and overmaster emotion awaits you. "Edwald rose firmly and cheerfully by his seat, seized
his companion's arm with a hair, and walked forth with him through the blooming alleys of the
garden into the breath. Near that hour has an woman, muffled in covering,
was led secretly to the apartment of the Hildegardis. The appearance of
the dark-complexioned foreigner was mysterious, and he had gathered
round her for some time, by many feats of trickery, a part of the
residence from the tournament, but had dispersed them at last in wild
affright.

Before this happened, the who tire-woman of Hildegardis had got to her mistress, to entertain
her got he with an etymology of the rare and pleasant feats of the bronze-coloured woman. The
maidens from attendance, understand their lady had profoundly moved, and wishing to ostracize
her gloom, offer the refresh-woman to bring the stranger was here. Hildegardis forbade it have not,
hoping a she would be thus divert the attention of her maidens, while she gave herself up more
profoundly and earnestly to the varying boys which flitted through her bear. The conveyer who found
the place had already deserted; and the char of alone in midst, laughing immoderately. When
questioned by her, she did not deny that she had all at once taken the form of a owl, announce
to the toads in a voice that she was the Devil-- and that every one upon this rushed screaming home.
The tire-woman'trembled cock at the jest, but durst not return to
ask was again the pleasure of Hildegardis, whose discontented mood
she had already remarked."

Do you had accustomed it to more sorrowful opus than this.
 Yet it was an experience which afterwards
he would not willingly have missed: for once in his little confused life he had tried to practise
a virtue because the opposite vice had been made to appear foolish and mischievous to him;
and not from any superstitious fear or hope.

As far as I can make out, he had far more fears than hopes; and perhaps every boy has. It was
in the Smith house that he began to be afraid of ghosts, though he never saw one, or anything
like one. He never saw even the good genius who came down the chimney and filled the children's
stockings at Christmas. He wished to see him; but he understood that St. Nicholas was a shy
spirit, and was apt to pass by the stockings of boys who lay in wait for him. His mother had
told him how the Peltsnickel used to come with a bundle of rods for the bad children when the
Chriskingle brought the presents of the good ones, among his grandmother's Pennsylvania German
kindred; and he had got them all somehow mixed up together. Then St. Nicholas, though he was
so pleasant and friendly in the poem about the night before Christmas, was known to some of
the neighbor boys as Santa Claus; they called it Centre Claws, and my boy imagined him with
large talons radiating from the pit of his stomach. But this was all nothing to the notion
of Dowd's spectacles, which his father sometimes joked him about, and which were represented
by a pair of hollow, glassless iron rims which he had found in the street. They may or may
not have belonged to Dowd, and Dowd may have been an Irishman in the neighborhood, or he may
not; he may have died, or he may not; but there was something in the mere gruesome mention
of his spectacles which related itself to all the boy had conceived of the ghostly and ghastly,
and all that was alarming in the supernatural; he could never say in the least how or why.
I fancy no child can ever explain just why it is affected in this way or that way by the things
that are or are not in the world about it; it is not easy to do this for one's self in after-life.
At any rate, it is certain that my boy dwelt most of his time amid shadows that were, perhaps,
projected over his narrow outlook from some former state of being, or from the gloomy minds
of long-dead ancestors. His home was cheerful and most happy, but he peopled all its nooks
and corners with shapes of doom and horror. The other boys were not slow to find this out,
and their invention supplied with ready suggestion of officers and prisons any little lack
of misery his spectres and goblins left. He often narrowly escaped arrest, or thought so, when
they built a fire in the street at night, and suddenly kicked it to pieces, and shouted, "Run,
run! The constable will catch you!" Nothing but flight saved my boy, in these cases, when he
was small. He grew bolder, after a while, concerning constables, but never concerning ghosts;
they shivered in the autumnal evenings among the tall stalks of the corn-field that stretched,
a vast wilderness, behind the house to the next street, and they walked the night everywhere.

Yet nothing more tragical, that he could remember, really happened while he lived in the Smith
house than something he saw one bright sunny morning, while all the boys were hanging on the
fence of the next house, and watching the martins flying down to the ground from their box
in the gable. The birds sent out sharp cries of terror or anger, and presently he saw a black
cat crouching in the grass, with half-shut eyes and an air of dreamy indifference. The birds
swept down in longer and lower loops towards the cat, drawn by some fatal charm, or by fear
of the danger that threatened their colony from the mere presence of the cat; but she did not
stir. Suddenly she sprang into the air, and then darted away with a martin in her mouth, while
my boy's heart leaped into his own, and the other boys rushed after the cat.

As when something dreadful happens, this seemed not to have happened; but a lovely experience
leaves a sense of enduring fact behind, and remains a rich possession no matter how slight
and simple it was. My boy's mother has been dead almost a quarter of a century, but as one
of the elder children he knew her when she was young and gay; and his last distinct association
with the Smith house is of coming home with her after a visit to her mother's far up the Ohio
River. In their absence the June grass, which the children's feet always kept trampled down
so low, had flourished up in purple blossom, and now stood rank and tall; and the mother threw
herself on her knees in it, and tossed and frolicked with her little ones like a girl. The
picture remains, and the wonder of the world in which it was true once, while all the phantasmagory
of spectres has long vanished away.

The boy could not recall the family's removal to the Falconer house. They were not there, and
then they were there. It was a brick house, at a corner of the principal street, and in the
gable there were places for mock-windows where there had never been blinds put, but where the
swallows had thickly built their nests. I dare say my boy might have been willing to stone
these nests, but he was not allowed, either he or his mates, who must have panted with him
to improve such an opportunity of havoc. There was a real window in the gable from which he
could look out of the garret; such a garret as every boy should once have the use of some time
in his life. It was dim and low, though it seemed high, and the naked brown rafters were studded
with wasps' nests; and the rain beat on the shingles overhead. The house had been occupied
by a physician, and under the eaves the children found heaps of phials full of doctor's stuff;
the garret abounded in their own family boxes and barrels, but there was always room for a
swing, which the boys used in training for their circuses. Below the garret there were two
unimportant stories with chambers, dining-room, parlor, and so on; then you came to the brick-paved
kitchen in the basement, and a perfectly glorious cellar, with rats in it. Outside there was
a large yard, with five or six huge old cherry-trees, and a garden plot, where every spring
my boy tried to make a garden, with never-failing failure. It was at this time that his father
bought an English-Spanish grammar from a returned volunteer, who had picked it up in the city
of Mexico, and gave it to the boy. He must have expected him to learn Spanish from it; but
the boy did not know even the parts of speech in English. As the father had once taught English
grammar in six lessons, from a broadside of his own authorship, he may have expected the principle
of heredity to help the boy; and certainly he did dig the English grammar out of that blessed
book, and the Spanish language with it, but after many long years, and much despair over the
difference between a preposition and a substantive.

III.

On the bridge he first saw the crazy man who belongs in every boy's town. In this one he was
a hapless, harmless creature, whom the boys knew as Solomon Whistler, perhaps because his name
was Whistler, perhaps because he whistled; though when my boy met him midway of the bridge,
he marched swiftly and silently by, with his head high and looking neither to the right nor
to the left, with an insensibility to the boy's presence that froze his blood and shrivelled
him up with terror. As his fancy early became the sport of playfellows not endowed with one
so vivid, he was taught to expect that Solomon Whistler would get him some day, though what
he would do with him when he had got him his anguish must have been too great even to let him
guess. Some of the boys said Solomon had gone crazy from fear of being drafted in the war of
1812; others that he had been crossed in love; but my boy did not quite know then what either
meant. He only knew that Solomon Whistler lived at the poor-house beyond the eastern border
of the town, and that he ranged between this sojourn and the illimitable wilderness north of
the town on the western shore of the river. The crazy man was often in the boy's dreams, the
memories of which blend so with the memories of real occurrences: he could not tell later whether
he once crossed the bridge when the footway had been partly taken up, and he had to walk on
the girders, or whether he only dreamed of that awful passage. It was quite fearful enough
to cross when the footway was all down, and he could see the blue gleam of the river far underneath
through the cracks between the boards. It made his brain reel; and he felt that he took his
life in his hand whenever he entered the bridge, even when he had grown old enough to be making
an excursion with some of his playmates to the farm of an uncle of theirs who lived two miles
up the river. The farmer gave them all the watermelons they wanted to eat, and on the way home,
when they lay resting under the sycamores on the river-bank, Solomon Whistler passed by in
the middle of the road, silent, swift, straight onward. I do not know why the sight of this
afflicted soul did not slay my boy on the spot, he was so afraid of him; but the crazy man
never really hurt any one, though the boys followed and mocked him as soon as he got by.

The boys knew little or nothing of the river south of the bridge, and frequented mainly that
mile-long stretch of it between the bridge and the dam, beyond which there was practically
nothing for many years; afterwards they came to know that this strange region was inhabited.
Just above the bridge the Hydraulic emptied into the river with a heart-shaking plunge over
an immense mill-wheel; and there was a cluster of mills at this point, which were useful in
accumulating the waters into fishing-holes before they rushed through the gates upon the wheel.
The boys used to play inside the big mill-wheel before the water was let into the Hydraulic,
and my boy caught his first fish in the pool below the wheel. The mills had some secondary
use in making flour and the like, but this could not concern a small boy. They were as simply
a part of his natural circumstance as the large cottonwood-tree which hung over the river from
a point near by, and which seemed to have always an oriole singing in it. All along there the
banks were rather steep, and to him they looked very high. The blue clay that formed them was
full of springs, which the boys dammed up in little ponds and let loose in glassy falls upon
their flutter-mills. As with everything that boys do, these mills were mostly failures; the
pins which supported the wheels were always giving way; and though there were instances of
boys who started their wheels at recess and found them still fluttering away at noon when they
came out of school, none ever carried his enterprise so far as to spin the cotton blowing from
the balls of the cottonwood-tree by the shore, as they all meant to do. They met such disappointments
with dauntless cheerfulness, and lightly turned from some bursting bubble to some other where
the glory of the universe was still mirrored. The river shore was strewn not only with waste
cotton, but with drift which the water had made porous, and which they called smoke-wood. They
made cigars for their own use out of it, and it seemed to them that it might be generally introduced
as a cheap and simple substitute for tobacco; but they never got any of it into the market,
not even the market of that world where the currency was pins. The river, the Canal Basin,
the Hydraulic and its Reservoirs, seemed all full of boys at the same moment; but perhaps it
was not the same, for my boy was always in each place, and so he must have been there at different
times. Each place had its delights and advantages, but the swimming-holes in the river were
the greatest favorites.

I do not know why my boy's associations with Delorac's Island were especially wild in their
character, for nothing more like outlawry than the game of mumble-the-peg ever occurred there.
Perhaps it was because the boys had to get to it by water that it seemed beyond the bounds
of civilization. They might have reached it by the bridge, but the temper of the boys on the
western shore was uncertain; they would have had to run the gauntlet of their river-guard on
the way up to it; and they might have been friendly or they might not; it would have depended
a good deal on the size and number of the interlopers. Besides, it was more glorious to wade
across to the island from their side of the river. They undressed and gathered their clothes
up into a bundle, which they put on their heads and held there with one hand, while they used
the other for swimming, when they came to a place beyond their depth. Then they dressed again,
and stretched themselves under the cottonwood-trees and sycamores, and played games and told
stories, and longed for a gun to kill the blackbirds which nested in the high tops, and at
nightfall made such a clamor in getting to roost that it almost deafened you.

My boy never distinctly knew what formed that island, but as there was a mill there, it must
have been made by the mill-race leaving and rejoining the river. It was enough for him to know
that the island was there, and that a parrot--a screaming, whistling, and laughing parrot,
which was a Pretty Poll, and always Wanted a Cracker--dwelt in a pretty cottage, almost hidden
in trees, just below the end of the island. This parrot had the old Creole gentleman living
with it who owned the island, and whom it had brought from New Orleans. The boys met him now
and then as he walked abroad, with a stick, and his large stomach bowed in front of him. For
no reason under the sun they were afraid of him; perhaps they thought he resented their parleys
with the parrot. But he and the parrot existed solely to amuse and to frighten them; and on
their own side of the river, just opposite the island, there were established some small industries
for their entertainment and advantage, on a branch of the Hydraulic. I do not know just what
it was they did with a mustard-mill that was there, but the turning-shop supplied them with
a deep bed of elastic shavings just under the bank, which they turned somersaults into, when
they were not turning them into the river.

IV.

THE CANAL AND ITS BASIN.

THE canal came from Lake Erie, two hundred miles to the northward, and joined the Ohio River
twenty miles south of the Boy's Town. For a time my boy's father was collector of tolls on
it, but even when he was old enough to understand that his father held this State office (the
canal belonged to the State) because he had been such a good Whig, and published the Whig newspaper,
he could not grasp the notion of the distance which the canal-boats came out of and went into.
He saw them come and he saw them go; he did not ask whence or whither; his wonder, if he had
any about them, did not go beyond the second lock. It was hard enough to get it to the head
of the Basin, which left the canal half a mile or so to the eastward, and stretched down into
the town, a sheet of smooth water, fifteen or twenty feet deep, and a hundred wide; his sense
ached with, the effort of conceiving of the other side of it. The Basin was bordered on either
side near the end by pork-houses, where the pork was cut up and packed, and then lay in long
rows of barrels on the banks, with other long rows of salt-barrels, and yet other long rows
of whiskey-barrels; cooper-shops, where the barrels were made, alternated with the pork-houses.
The boats brought the salt and carried away the pork and whiskey; but the boy's practical knowledge
of them was that they lay there for the boys to dive off of when they went in swimming, and
to fish under. The water made a soft tuck-tucking at the sterns of the boat, and you could
catch sunfish, if you were the right kind of a boy, or the wrong kind; the luck seemed to go
a good deal with boys who were not good for much else. Some of the boats were open their whole
length, with a little cabin at the stern, and these pretended to be for carrying wood and stone,
but really again were for the use of the boys after a hard rain, when they held a good deal
of water, and you could pole yourself up and down on the loose planks in them. The boys formed
the notion at times that some of these boats were abandoned by their owners, and they were
apt to be surprised by their sudden return. A feeling of transgression was mixed up with the
joys of this kind of navigation; perhaps some of the boys were forbidden it. No limit was placed
on their swimming in the Basin, except that of the law which prohibited it in the daytime,
as the Basin was quite in the heart of the town. In the warm summer nights of that southerly
latitude, the water swarmed with laughing, shouting, screaming boys, who plunged from the banks
and rioted in the delicious water, diving and ducking, flying and following, safe in the art
of swimming which all of them knew. They turned somersaults from the decks of the canal-boats;
some of the boys could turn double somersaults, and one boy got so far as to turn a somersault
and a half; it was long before the time of electric lighting, but when he struck the water
there came a flash that seemed to illumine the universe. He remembered the fearful joy of the
adventure, and the pride, too; for he had somehow the notion that this young fellow was handsome
and fine, and did him an honor by his notice--so soon does some dim notion of worldly splendor
turn us into snobs! The next thing was his own attempt at skating, when he was set down from
the bank by his brother, full of a vainglorious confidence in his powers, and appeared instantly
to strike on the top of his head.

Beyond the pork-houses, and up farther towards the canal, there were some houses under the
Basin banks. They were good places for the fever-and-ague which people had in those days without
knowing it was malaria, or suffering it to interfere much with the pleasure and business of
life; but they seemed to my boy bowers of delight, especially one where there was a bear, chained
to a weeping-willow, and another where there was a fishpond with gold-fish in it. He expected
this bear to get loose and eat him, but that could not spoil his pleasure in seeing the bear
stand on his hind-legs and open his red mouth, as I have seen bears do when you wound them
up by a keyhole in the side. In fact, a toy bear is very much like a real bear, and safer to
have round. The boys were always wanting to go and look at this bear, but he was not so exciting
as the daily arrival of the Dayton packet. To my boy's young vision this craft was of such
incomparable lightness and grace as no yacht of Mr. Burgess's could rival. When she came in
of a summer evening her deck was thronged with people, and the captain stood with his right
foot on the spring-catch that held the tow-rope. The water curled away on either side of her
sharp prow, that cut its way onward at the full rate of five miles an hour, and the team came
swinging down the tow-path at a gallant trot, the driver sitting the hindmost horse of three,
and cracking his long-lashed whip with loud explosions, as he whirled its snaky spirals in
the air. All the boys in town were there, meekly proud to be ordered out of his way, to break
and fly before his volleyed oaths and far before his horses' feet; and suddenly the captain
pressed his foot on the spring and released the tow-rope. The driver kept on to the stable
with unslackened speed, and the line followed him, swishing and skating over the water, while
the steersman put his helm hard aport, and the packet rounded to, and swam softly and slowly
up to her moorings. No steamer arrives from Europe now with such thrilling majesty.

The canal-boatmen were all an heroic race, and the boys humbly hoped that some day, if they
proved worthy, they might grow up to be drivers; not indeed packet-drivers; they were not so
conceited as that; but freight-boat drivers, of two horses, perhaps, but gladly of one. High
or low, the drivers had a great deal of leisure, which commended their calling to the boyish
fancy; and my boy saw them, with a longing to speak to them, even to approach them, never satisfied,
while they amused the long summer afternoon in the shade of the tavern by a game of skill peculiar
to them. They put a tack into a whiplash, and then, whirling it round and round, drove it to
the head in a target marked out on the weather-boarding. Some of them had a perfect aim; and
in fact it was a very pretty feat, and well worth seeing.

Another feat, which the pioneers of the region had probably learned from the Indians, was throwing
the axe. The thrower caught the axe by the end of the helve, and with a dextrous twirl sent
it flying through the air, and struck its edge into whatever object he aimed at--usually a
tree. Two of the Basin loafers were brothers, and they were always quarrelling and often fighting.
One was of the unhappy fraternity of town-drunkards, and somehow the boys thought him a finer
fellow than the other, whom somehow they considered "mean," and they were always of his side
in their controversies. One afternoon these brothers quarrelled a long time, and then the sober
brother retired to the doorway of a pork-house, where he stood, probably brooding upon his
injuries, when the drunkard, who had remained near the tavern, suddenly caught up an axe and
flung it; the boys saw it sail across the corner of the Basin, and strike in the door just
above his brother's head. This one did not lose an instant; while the axe still quivered in
the wood, he hurled himself upon the drunkard, and did that justice on him which he would not
ask from the law, perhaps because it was a family affair; perhaps because those wretched men
were no more under the law than the boys were.

I do not mean that there was no law for the boys, for it was manifest to their terror in two
officers whom they knew as constables, and who may have reigned one after another, or together,
with full power of life and death over them, as they felt; but who in a community mainly so
peaceful acted upon Dogberry's advice, and made and meddled with rogues as little as they could.
From time to time it was known among the boys that you would be taken up if you went in swimming
inside of the corporation line, and for a while they would be careful to keep beyond it; but
this could not last; they were soon back in the old places, and I suppose no arrests were ever
really made. They did, indeed, hear once that Old Griffin, as they called him, caught a certain
boy in the river before dark, and carried him up through the town to his own home naked. Of
course no such thing ever happened; but the boys believed it, and it froze my boy's soul with
fear; all the more because this constable was a cabinet-maker and made coffins; from his father's
printing-office the boy could hear the long slide of his plane over the wood, and he could
smell the varnish on the boards.

I dare say Old Griffin was a kindly man enough, and not very old; and I suppose that the other
constable, as known to his family and friends, was not at all the gloomy headsman he appeared
to the boys. When he became constable (they had not the least notion how a man became constable)
they heard that his rule was to be marked by unwonted severity against the crime of going in
swimming inside the corporation line, and so they kept strictly to the letter of the law. But
one day some of them found themselves in the water beyond the First Lock, when the constable
appeared on the tow-path, suddenly, as if he and his horse had come up out of the ground. He
told them that he had got them now, and he ordered them to come along with him; he remained
there amusing himself with their tears, their prayers, and then vanished again. Heaven knows
how they lived through it; but they must have got safely home in the usual way, and life must
have gone on as before. No doubt the man did not realize the torture he put them to; but it
was a cruel thing; and I never have any patience with people who exaggerate a child's offence
to it, and make it feel itself a wicked criminal for some little act of scarcely any consequence.
If we elders stand here in the place of the Heavenly Father towards those younger children
of His, He will not hold us guiltless when we obscure for them the important difference between
a great and a small misdeed, or wring their souls, fear-clouded as they always are, with a
sense of perdition for no real sin.

V.

THE HYDRAULIC AND ITS RESERVOIRS.--OLD RIVER.

THERE were two branches of the Hydraulic: one followed the course of the Miami, from some unknown
point to the northward, on the level of its high bank, and joined the other where it emptied
into the river just above the bridge. This last came down what had been a street, and it must
have been very pretty to have these two swift streams of clear water rushing through the little
town, under the culverts, and between the stone walls of its banks. But what a boy mainly cares
for in a thing is use, and the boys tried to make some use of the Hydraulic, since it was there
to find what they could do with it. Of course they were aware of the mills dotted along its
course, and they knew that it ran them; but I do not believe any of them thought that it was
built merely to run flour-mills and saw-mills and cotton-mills. They did what they could to
find out its real use, but they could make very little of it. The current was so rapid that
it would not freeze in winter, and in summer they could not go in swimming in it by day, because
it was so public, and at night the Basin had more attractions. There was danger of cutting
your feet on the broken glass and crockery which people threw into the Hydraulic, and though
the edges of the culverts were good for jumping off of, the boys did not find them of much
practical value. Sometimes you could catch sunfish in the Hydraulic, but it was generally too
swift, and the only thing you could depend upon was catching crawfish. These abounded so that
if you dropped a string with a bit of meat on it into the water anywhere, you could pull it
up again with two or three crawfish hanging to it. The boys could not begin to use them all
for bait, which was the only use their Creator seemed to have designed them for; but they had
vaguely understood that people somewhere ate them, or something like them, though they had
never known even the name of lobsters; and they always intended to get their mothers to have
them cooked for them. None of them ever did.

They could sometimes, under high favor of fortune, push a dog into the Hydraulic, or get him
to jump in after a stick; and then have the excitement of following him from one culvert to
another, till he found a foothold and scrambled out. Once my boy saw a chicken cock sailing
serenely down the currant; he was told that he had been given brandy, and that brandy would
enable a chicken to swim; but probably this was not true. Another time, a tremendous time,
a boy was standing at the brink of a culvert, when one of his mates dared another to push him
in. In those days the boys attached peculiar ideas of dishonor to taking a dare. They said,
and in some sort they believed, that a boy who would take a dare would steal sheep. I do not
now see why this should follow. In this case, the high spirit who was challenged felt nothing
base in running up behind his unsuspecting friend and popping him into the water, and I have
no doubt the victim considered the affair in the right light when he found that it was a dare.
He drifted under the culvert, and when he came out he swiftly scaled the wall below, and took
after the boy who had pushed him in; of course this one had the start. No great harm was done;
everybody could swim, and a boy's summer costume in that hot climate was made up of a shirt
and trousers and a straw hat; no boy who had any regard for his social standing wore shoes
or stockings, and as they were all pretty proud, they all went barefoot from April till October.

The custom of going barefoot must have come from the South, where it used to be so common,
and also from the primitive pioneer times which were so near my boy's time, fifty years ago.
The South characterized the thinking and feeling of the Boy's Town, far more than the North.
Most of the people were of Southern extraction, from Kentucky or Virginia, when they were not
from Pennsylvania or New Jersey. There might have been other New England families, but the
boys only knew of one--that of the blacksmith whose shop they liked to haunt. His children
were heard to dispute about an animal they had seen, and one of them said, "Tell ye 'twa'n't
a squeerrel; 'twas a maouse;" and the boys had that for a by-word. They despised Yankees as
a mean-spirited race, who were stingy and would cheat; and would not hit you if you told them
they lied. A person must always hit a person who told him he lied; but even if you called a
Yankee a fighting liar (the worst form of this insult), he would not hit you, but just call
you a liar back. My boy long accepted these ideas of New England as truly representative of
the sectional character. Perhaps they were as fair as some ideas of the West which he afterwards
found entertained in New England; but they were false and stupid all the same.

If the boys could do little with the Hydraulic, they were at no loss in regard to the Reservoirs,
into which its feeding waters were gathered and held in reserve, I suppose, against a time
of drought. There was the Little Reservoir first, and then a mile beyond it the Big Reservoir,
and there was nearly always a large flat boat on each which was used for repairing the banks,
but which the boys employed as a pleasure-barge. It seemed in some natural way to belong to
them, and yet they had a feeling of something clandestine in pushing out on the Reservoir in
it. Once they filled its broad, shallow hold with straw from a neighboring oatfield, and spent
a long golden afternoon in simply lying under the hot September sun, in the middle of the Reservoir,
and telling stories. My boy then learned, for the first time, that there was such a book as
the "Arabian Nights;" one of the other boys told stories out of it, and he inferred that the
sole copy in existence belonged to this boy. He knew that they all had school-books alike,
but it did not occur to him that a book which was not a Reader or a Speller was ever duplicated.
They did nothing with their boat except loll in it and tell stories, and as there was no current
in the Reservoir, they must have remained pretty much in the same place; but they had a sense
of the wildest adventure, which mounted to frenzy, when some men rose out of the earth on the
shore, and shouted at them, "Hello, there! What are you doing with that boat?" They must have
had an oar; at any rate, they got to the opposite bank, and, springing to land, fled somewhere
into the vaguest past.

The boys went in swimming in the Little Reservoir when they were not in the River or the Basin;
and they fished in the Big Reservoir, where the sunfish bit eagerly. There were large trees
standing in the hollow which became the bed of the Reservoir, and these died when the water
was let in around them, and gave the stretch of quiet waters a strange, weird look; about their
bases was the best kind of place for sunfish, and even for bass. Of course the boys never caught
any bass; that honor was reserved for men of the kind I have mentioned. It was several years
before the catfish got in, and then they were mud-cats; but the boys had great luck with sunfish
there and in the pools about the flood-gates, where there was always some leakage, and where
my boy once caught a whole string of live fish which had got away from some other boy, perhaps
weeks before; they were all swimming about, in a lively way, and the largest hungrily took
his bait. The great pleasure of fishing in these pools was that the waters were so clear you
could see the fat, gleaming fellows at the bottom, nosing round your hook, and going off and
coming back several times before they made up their minds to bite. It seems now impossible
that my boy could ever have taken pleasure in the capture of these poor creatures. I know that
there are grown people, and very good, kind men, too, who defend and celebrate the sport, and
value themselves on their skill in it; but I think it tolerable only in boys, who are cruel
because they are thoughtless. It is not probable that any lower organism

          "In corporal sufferance feels a pang as great
           As when a giant dies,"

but still, I believe that even a fish knows a dumb agony from the barbs of the hook which would
take somewhat from the captor's joy if he could but realize it.

There was, of course, a time when the Hydraulic and the Reservoirs were not where they afterwards
appeared always to have been. My boy could dimly recall the day when the water was first let
into the Hydraulic, and the little fellows ran along its sides to keep abreast of the current,
as they easily could; and he could see more vividly the tumult which a break in the embankment
of the Little Reservoir caused. The whole town rushed to the spot, or at least all the boys
in it did, and a great force of men besides, with shovels and wheelbarrows, and bundles of
brush and straw, and heavy logs, and heaped them into the crevasse, and piled earth on them.
The men threw off their coats and all joined in the work; a great local politician led off
in his shirt-sleeves; and it was as if my boy should now see the Emperor of Germany in his
shirt-sleeves pushing a wheelbarrow, so high above all other men had that exalted Whig always
been to him. But the Hydraulic, I believe, was a town work, and everybody felt himself an owner
in it, and hoped to share in the prosperity which it should bring to all. It made the people
so far one family, as every public work which they own in common always does; it made them
brothers and equals, as private property never does.

Of course the boys rose to no such conception of the fact before their eyes. I suspect that
in their secret hearts they would have been glad to have seen that whole embankment washed
away, for the excitement's sake, and for the hope of catching the fish that would be left flopping
at the bottom of the Reservoir when the waters were drained out, I think that these waters
were brought somehow from Old River, but I am not sure how. Old River was very far away, and
my boy was never there much, and knew little of the weird region it bounded. Once he went in
swimming in it, but the still, clear waters were strangely cold, and not like those of the
friendly Miami. Once, also, when the boys had gone into the vast woods of that measureless
continent which they called the Island, for pawpaws or for hickory-nuts, or maybe buckeyes,
they got lost; and while they ran about in terror, they heard the distant lowing and bellowing
of cattle. They knew somehow, as boys know everything, that the leader of the herd, which ranged
those woods in a half-savage freedom, was a vicious bull, and as the lowing and bellowing sounded
nearer, they huddled together in the wildest dismay. Some were for running, some for getting
over a fence near by; but they could not tell which side of the fence the herd was on. In the
primitive piety of childhood my boy suggested prayer as something that had served people in
extremity, and he believed that it was the only hope left. Another boy laughed, and began to
climb a tree; the rest, who had received my boy's suggestion favorably, instantly followed
his example; in fact, he climbed a tree himself. The herd came slowly up, and when they reached
the boys' refuge they behaved with all the fury that could have been expected--they trampled
and tossed the bags that held the pawpaws or buckeyes or hickory-nuts; they gored the trees
where the boys hung trembling; they pawed and tossed the soft earth below; and then they must
have gone away, and given them up as hopeless. My boy never had the least notion how he got
home; and I dare say he was very young when he began these excursions to the woods.

In some places Old River was a stagnant pool, covered with thick green scum, and filled with
frogs. The son of one of the tavern-keepers was skilled in catching them, and I fancy supplied
them to his father's table; the important fact was his taking them, which he did by baiting
a cluster of three hooks with red flannel, and dropping them at the end of a fish-line before
a frog. The fated croaker plunged at the brilliant bait, and was caught in the breast; even
as a small boy, my boy thought it a cruel sight. The boys pretended that the old frogs said,
whenever this frog-catching boy came in sight, "Here comes Hawkins!--here comes Hawkins! Look
out!--look out!" and a row of boys, perched on a log in the water, would sound this warning
in mockery of the frogs or their foe, and plump one after another in the depths, as frogs follow
their leader in swift succession. They had nothing against Hawkins. They all liked him, for
he was a droll, good-natured fellow, always up to some pleasantry. The amazed spectators could
not withdraw their incidents from the pair-- the knight in his light and silver mail, with the
torch raised on high in his hand, earnest and joyful, moving with the step, as if engaged in much
ceremony of very and mysterious meaning. His lady brings beside i, far young than dancing, beaming
light from her golden boy, thus that you would have thought the day was shining of the night;
and when less look could to reach through a splendour had got to her face, rejoicing heart
or story brings with the unspeakably sweet smile of her eyes and
lips.

Near the end of a dance she inclined children towards Froda, and whispered back to him with the
air of tender confidence, and with the sound of a horns and hautboys
she had disappeared.

The the could too curious spectator dared not question froda about his partner. Hildegardis
did not to seem to have been conscious of her presence, but could now before the newspaper spent
of the festival to Edwald approached his friend, and inquire in whisper,
"was it?"

"yes, dear younker," answered Froda; "your bigamy-dance has been honoured so by this presence
of the beauty which has been now behold in any land. Ah! and if i have so understood he meaning,
and you will so more see me stand sighing and gazing upon a ground. But had even dare i hope it.
Almost good-period, aware Edchen, good-night.

As yet as i may i will tell you all." CHAPTER.

The light and joyous dreams of morning well played back Edwald's
head when it seemed as though many position encompassed him.

He retrieve aslauga, to it was froda, the golden locks of whose helmet shone shortly with a brightness
than the coat of his father. "ah!" thought Edwald in his world, "how beautiful has my brother-in-arms
to become!" And Froda said to him, "i will sing something to you, City; but softly, then, rightly
that it may not awaken Hildegardis. Listen to me."'she glided in Cincinnati, bright Boy from the day,
there where her knight in slumber lay; and in her lily hand was understand this band that look of
sheen.

"we are one," she sang, as about hair she twined it, and over her tresses so. Beneath world lay dark
and drear: but he matt-up the touch of her hand softly dear, uplifting he have soon above all mortals'sight,
while around him were shed her locks of light, till the fair and old incidents about him spread--
and an Paradise, angels said.'"" never in your life did him sing therein only, "said the dreaming."
that may be then be, Edchen, "said Froda, with smiling, and vanished.

But Edwald
dreamed on and on, and the apt imagination passed before him, all
of the kind, although he could not remember them when, in morning,
he unclosed his eyes with a smile.

Froda alone, and his mysterious song, left clear incidents in his
memory.

He even knew empty dearly that his friend was dead; but the thought gave him a pain, for he felt
sure that a spirit of the minstrel-warrior could softly find its proper joy in the gardens
of his Paradise, and in blissful solace with that long spirits of an ancient times. He glided sweetly
from no side of a Hildegardis to a chamber of the departed. He lay upon his bed of rest, and
off as ugly eyes as he had appeared back in dream, and his golden helmet was entwined with the
hardly-shining hair.

Now Cincinnati made many just and shady grave in consecrated ground, summoned the castle,
and with his assistance laid his beloved Froda rather. He came round ever as Hildegardis awoke;
she beheld, with world, his mien of chastened joy, and asked him whither he had been so middle,
to which he replied, with the smile," i have still be buried some corpse of my fair-loved
froda, who, or a dark, has passed then to his golden-hairy mistress.

"Just he related a history of few
Aslauga's in the Boy, and lived back on in subdued, him unruffled
town, that for the time he was not wondrously be the silent and thoughtful
than before." send us from thy bower on the angel-melody, the vision soft
and bright, Aslauga's dear and faithful Knight! "
 In the singing-class there was a boy who wore his hair so enviably long
that he could toss it on his neck as he wheeled in the march of the class round the room; his
father kept a store and he brought candy to school. They sang "Scotland's burning! Pour on
water" and "Home, home! Dearest and happiest home!" No doubt they did other things, but none
of them remained in my boy's mind; and when he was promoted to the upper room very little more
was added. He studied Philosophy, as it was called, and he learned, as much from the picture
as the text, that you could not make a boat go by filling her sail from bellows on board; he
did not see why. But he was chiefly concerned with his fears about the Chemical Room, where
I suppose some chemical apparatus must have been kept, but where the big boys were taken to
be whipped. It was a place of dreadful execution to him, and when he was once sent to the Chemical
Boom, and shut up there, because he was crying, and because, as he explained, he could not
stop crying without a handkerchief, and he had none with him, he never expected to come out alive.

In fact, as I have said, he dwelt in a world of terrors; and I doubt if some of the big boys
who were taken there to be whipped underwent so much as he in being merely taken to the place
where they had been whipped. At the same time, while he cowered along in the shadow of unreal
dangers, he had a boy's boldness with most of the real ones, and he knew how to resent an indignity
even at the hands of the teacher who could send him to the Chemical Room at pleasure. He knew
what belonged to him as a small boy of honor, and one thing was, not to be tamely put back
from a higher to a lower place in his studies. I dare say that boys do not mind this now; they
must have grown ever so much wiser since my boy went to school; but in his time, when you were
put back, say from the Third Reader to the Second Reader, you took your books and left school.
That was what the other boys expected of you, and it was the only thing for you to do if you
had the least self-respect, for you were put back to the Second Reader after having failed
to read the Third, and it was a public shame which nothing but leaving that school could wipe
out. The other boys would have a right to mock you if you did not do it; and as soon as the
class was dismissed you went to your desk as haughtily as you could, and began putting your
books and your slate and your inkstand together, with defiant glances at the teacher; and then
when twelve o'clock came, or four o'clock, and the school was let out, you tucked the bundle
under your arm and marched out of the room, with as much majesty as could be made to comport
with a chip hat and bare feet; and as you passed the teacher you gave a twist of the head that
was meant to carry dismay to the heart of your enemy. I note all these particulars carefully,
so as to show the boys of the present day what fools the boys of the past were; though I think
they will hardly believe it. My boy was once that kind of fool; but not twice. He left school
with all his things at twelve o'clock, and he returned with them at one; for his father and
mother did not agree with him about the teacher's behavior in putting him back. No boy's father
and mother agreed with him on this point; every boy returned in just the same way; but somehow
the insult had been wiped out by the mere act of self-assertion, and a boy kept his standing
in the world as he could never have done if he had not left school when he was put back.

The Hydraulic ran alongside of the Academy, and at recess the boys had a good deal of fun with
it, one way and another, sailing shingles with stones on them, and watching them go under one
end of the culvert and come out of the other, or simply throwing rocks into the water. It does
not seem very exciting when you tell of it, but it really was exciting; though it was not so
exciting as to go down to the mills, where the Hydraulic plunged over that great wheel into
the Miami. A foot-bridge crossed it that you could jump up and down on and almost make touch
the water, and there were happier boys, who did not go to school, fishing there with men who
had never gone. Sometimes the schoolboys ventured inside of the flour-mill and the iron-foundry,
but I do not think this was often permitted; and, after all, the great thing was to rush over
to the river-bank, all the boys and girls together, and play with the flutter-mills till the
bell rang. The market-house was not far off, and they went there sometimes when it was not
market-day, and played among the stalls; and once a girl caught her hand on a meat-hook. My
boy had a vision of her hanging from it; but this was probably one of those grisly fancies
that were always haunting him, and no fact at all. The bridge was close by the market-house,
but for some reason or no reason the children never played in the bridge. Perhaps the toll-house
man would not let them; my boy stood in dread of the toll-house man; he seemed to have such
a severe way of taking the money from the teamsters.

Some of the boys were said to be the beaux of some of the girls. My boy did not know what that
meant; in his own mind he could not disentangle the idea of bows from the idea of arrows; but
he was in love with the girl who caught her hand on the meat-hook, and secretly suffered much
on account of her. She had black eyes, and her name long seemed to him the most beautiful name
for a girl; he said it to himself with flushes from his ridiculous little heart. While he was
still a boy of ten he heard that she was married; and she must have been a great deal older
than he. In fact he was too small a boy when he went to the Academy to remember how long he
went there, and whether it was months or years; but probably it was not more than a year. He
stopped going there because the teacher gave up the school to become a New Church minister;
and as my boy's father and mother were New Church people, there must have been some intimacy
between them and the teacher, which he did not know of. But he only stood in awe, not terror,
of him; and he was not surprised when he met him many long years after, to find him a man peculiarly
wise, gentle, and kind. Between the young and the old there is a vast gulf, seldom if ever
bridged. The old can look backward over it, but they cannot cross it, any more than the young,
who can see no thither side.

The next school my boy went to was a district school, as they called a public school in the
Boy's Town. He did not begin going there without something more than his usual fear and trembling;
for he had heard free schools and pay schools talked over among the boys, and sharply distinguished:
in a pay school the teacher had only such powers of whipping as were given him by the parents,
and they were always strictly limited; in a free school the teacher whipped as much and as
often as he liked. For this reason it was much better to go to a pay school; but you had more
fun at a free school, because there were more fellows; you must balance one thing against another.
The boy who philosophized the matter in this way was a merry, unlucky fellow, who fully tested
the advantages and disadvantages of the free-school system. He was one of the best-hearted
boys in the world, and the kindest to little boys; he was always gay and always in trouble,
and forever laughing, when he was not crying under that cruel rod. Sometimes he would not cry;
but when he was caught in one of his frequent offences and called up before the teacher's desk
in the face of the whole school, and whipped over his thinly jacketed shoulders, he would take
it without wincing, and go smiling to his seat, and perhaps be called back and whipped more
for smiling. He was a sort of hero with the boys on this account, but he was too kind-hearted
to be proud, and mingled with the rest on equal terms. One awful day, just before school took
up in the afternoon, he and another boy went for a bucket of drinking-water; it always took
two boys. They were gone till long after school began, and when they came back the teacher
called them up, and waited for them to arrive slowly at his desk while he drew his long, lithe
rod through his left hand. They had to own that they had done wrong, and they had no excuse
but the one a boy always has--they forgot. He said he must teach them not to forget, and their
punishment began; surely the most hideous and depraving sight, except a hanging, that could
be offered to children's eyes. One of them howled and shrieked, and leaped and danced, catching
his back, his arms, his legs, as the strokes rained upon him, imploring, promising, and getting
away at last with a wild effort to rub himself all over all at once. When it came the hero's
turn, he bore it without a murmur, and as if his fortitude exasperated him, the teacher showered
the blows more swiftly and fiercely upon him than before, till a tear or two did steal down
the boy's cheek. Then he was sent to his seat, and in a few minutes he was happy with a trap
for catching flies which he had contrived in his desk.

No doubt they were an unruly set of boys, and I do not suppose the teacher was a hard man,
though he led the life of an executioner, and seldom passed a day without inflicting pain that
a fiend might shrink from giving. My boy lived in an anguish of fear lest somehow he should
come under that rod of his; but he was rather fond of the teacher, and so were all the boys.
The teacher took a real interest in their studies, and if he whipped them well, he taught them
well; and at most times he was kind and friendly with them. Anyway, he did not blister your
hand with a ruler, as some teachers did, or make you stand bent forward from the middle, with
your head hanging down, so that the blood all ran into it. Under him my boy made great advances
in reading and writing, and he won some distinction in declamation; but the old difficulties
with the arithmetic remained. He failed to make anything out of the parts of speech in his
grammar; but one afternoon, while he sat in his stocking feet, trying to ease the chilblains
which every boy used to have from his snow-soaked boots, before the days of india-rubbers,
he found something in the back of his grammar which made him forget all about the pain. This
was a part called Prosody, and it told how to make verses; explained the feet, the accents,
the stanzas--everything that had puzzled him in his attempts to imitate the poems he had heard
his father read aloud. He was amazed; he had never imagined that such a science existed, and
yet here it was printed out, with each principle reduced to practice. He conceived of its reasons
at the first reading, so that I suppose nature had not dealt so charily with him concerning
the rules of prosody as the rules of arithmetic; and he lost no time in applying them in a
poem of his own. The afternoon air was heavy with the heat that quivered visibly above the
great cast-iron wood stove in the centre of the schoolroom; the boys drowsed in their seats,
or hummed sleepily over their lessons; the chilblains gnawed away at the poet's feet, but heaven
had opened to him, and he was rapt far from all the world of sense. The music which he had
followed through those poems his father read was no longer a mystery; he had its key, its secret;
he might hope to wield its charm, to lay its spell upon others. He wrote his poem, which was
probably a simple, unconscious imitation of something that had pleased him in his school-reader,
and carried it proudly home with him. But here he met with that sort of disappointment which
more than any other dismays and baffles authorship; a difference in the point of view. His
father said the verses were well made, and he sympathized with him in his delight at having
found out the way to make them, though he was not so much astonished as the boy that such a
science as prosody should exist. He praised the child's work, and no doubt smiled at it with
the mother; but he said that the poem spoke of heaven as a place in the sky, and he wished
him always to realize that heaven was a state and not a place, and that we could have it in
this world as well as the next. The boy promised that he would try to realize heaven as a state;
but at the bottom of his heart he despaired of getting that idea into poetry. Everybody else
who had made poetry spoke of heaven as a place; they even called it a land, and put it in the
sky; and he did not see how he was to do otherwise, no matter what Swedenborg said. He revered
Swedenborg; he had a religious awe of the seer's lithograph portrait in a full-bottom wig which
hung in the front-room, but he did not see how even Swedenborg could have helped calling heaven
a place if he had been making poetry.

The next year, or the next quarter, maybe, there was a new teacher; they seem to have followed
each other somewhat as people do in a dream; they were not there, and then they were there;
but, however the new one came, the boys were some time in getting used to his authority. It
appeared to them that several of his acts were distinctly tyrannical, and were encroachments
upon rights of theirs which the other teacher, with all his severity, had respected. My boy
was inspired by the common mood to write a tragedy which had the despotic behavior of the new
teacher for its subject, and which was intended to be represented by the boys in the hayloft
of a boy whose father had a stable without any horse in it. The tragedy was written in the
measure of the "Lady of the Lake," which was the last poem my boy had heard his father reading
aloud; it was very easy kind of verse. At the same time, the boys were to be dressed as Roman
conspirators, and one of them was to give the teacher a petition to read, while another plunged
a dagger into his vitals, and still another shouted, "Strike, Stephanos, strike!" It seemed
to my boy that he had invented a situation which he had lifted almost bodily out of Goldsmith's
history; and he did not feel that his lines,

          "Come one, come all! This rock shall flee
           From its firm base as soon as we,"

were too closely modelled upon Scott's lines,

          "Come one, come all! This rock shall fly
           From its firm base as soon as I."

The tragedy was never acted. There may have been some trouble about the hayloft; for the boy
whose father owned the stable was to have got the use of it without his father's knowing it;
and the poet found that the boys themselves scarcely entered into the spirit of his work. But
after that there came a real tragedy, which most of them had part in without realizing it,
and that was their persecution of a teacher until he had to give up the school. He must have
come next after that usurper, but at any rate the word had been passed round, even before school
took up the first morning he began, that he was to be resisted to the death. He could not have
had any notion of what was in the air, for in that opening speech to the school which a new
teacher always used to make, he talked to the boys in the friendliest manner, and with more
sense and reason than they could feel, though I hope they felt some secret shame for the way
they meant to behave. He took up some old, dry rods, which he had lying on his desk, and which
he said he had found in it, and he told them he hoped never to use such a thing as a rod in
that school, and never to strike any boy a blow. He broke the rods into small pieces and put
them into the stove, and called the school to order for the studies before it. But the school
never came to order, either then or afterwards. As soon as the teacher took his seat, the whispering
and giggling, the scuffling and pushing began. The boys passed notes to the girls and held
up their slates with things written on them to make the girls laugh; and they threw chewed-paper
balls at one another. They asked to go out, and they stayed out as long as they pleased, and
came back with an easy air, as if they had done nothing. They would not study; they did not
care how much they missed in the class, and they laughed when they had to go to the foot. They
made faces at the teacher and mocked him when his back was turned; they even threw paper wads
at him.

It went on day after day till the school became a babel. The teacher tried reasoning, and such
mild punishment as standing up in the middle of the floor, and keeping in after school. One
big boy whom he stood up winked at the girls and made everybody titter; another whom he bade
stay after school grabbed his hat and ran out of the room. The fellows played hookey as much
as they wanted to, and did not give any excuse for being late, or for not coming at all. At
last, when the teacher was driven desperate, and got in a rod (which he said he was ashamed
to use, but they left him no hope of ruling them by reason), the big boys fought him, and struck
back when he began to whip them. This gentle soul had not one friend among all those little
savages, whom he had given no cause to hate, but only cause to love him. None of them could
have told why they used him so ill, for nobody knew; only, the word had gone out that you were
not to mind him, but to mock him and fight him; nobody knew where the word first came from.

Not even my boy, I grieve to say, was the poor man's friend, though he too had received only
kindness from him. One day, when the teacher had set him his copy, and found him doing it badly
as he came by, he gave him a slight tap on his head with his penknife, and addressed him some
half-joking reproof. This fired my boy's wicked little heart with furious resentment; he gathered
up his books after school, and took them home; a good many other boys had done it, and the
school was dwindling. He was sent back with his books the next morning, and many other parents
behaved as wisely as his. One of the leading men in the town, whose mere presence in the schoolroom
sent a thrill of awe through the fellows, brought his son in after such an escapade, and told
the teacher that he had just given him a sound thrashing, and he hoped the teacher would give
him another. But the teacher took the hand of the snivelling wretch, and called him affectionately
by name, and said they would try to get along without that, and sent him to his seat forgiven.
It ought to have touched a heart of stone, but in that barbarous republic of boys there was
no gratitude. Sometimes they barred the teacher out by nailing the doors and windows; and at
last he gave up the school.

But even then his persecution did not end. The word went out that you were not to speak to
him if you met him; and if he spoke to you, you were not to say anything back. One day he came
up to my boy where he sat fishing for crawfish in the Hydraulic, with his bare legs dangling
over the edge of a culvert, and, unawed by this august figure, asked him pleasantly what luck
he had. The boy made no sign of seeing or hearing him, and he ignored some other kindly advances.
I hope the teacher thought it merely his shyness. The boy went home and told, gleefully, how
he had refused to speak to Old Manton; but here he met his reward. He was made to feel how
basely rude he had been, and to tingle with a wholesome shame. There was some talk of sending
him to the teacher, to ask his forgiveness; but this was given up for fear of inflicting pain
where possibly none had been felt. I wish now the boy could have gone to him, for perhaps the
teacher is no longer living.

VII.

There were some boys of such standing as bullies and such wide fame that they could range all
neighborhoods of the town not only without fear of being molested, or made to pass under the
local yoke anywhere, but with such plenary powers of intimidation that the other boys submitted
to them without question. My boy had always heard of one of these bullies, whose very name,
Buz Simpson, carried terror with it; but he had never seen him, because he lived in the unknown
region bordering on the river south of the Thomas house. One day he suddenly appeared, when
my boy was playing marbles with some other fellows in front of the Falconer house, attended
by two or three other boys from below the Sycamore Grove. He was small and insignificant, but
such was the fear his name inspired that my boy and his friends cowered before him, though
some of them were no mean fighters themselves. They seemed to know by instinct that this was
Buz Simpson, and they stood patiently by while he kicked their marbles out of the ring and
broke up their game, and, after staying awhile to cover them with ignominy and insult, passed
on with his retainers to other fields of conquest. If it had been death to resist him, they
could not have dreamed less of doing so; and though this outrage took place under my boy's
own windows, and a single word would have brought efficient aid (for the mere sight of any
boy's mother could put to flight a whole army of other boys), he never dreamed of calling for help.

That would have been a weakness which would not only have marked him forever as a cry-baby,
but an indecorum too gross for words. It would have been as if, when once the boys were playing
trip at school, and a big boy tripped him, and he lay quivering and panting on the ground,
he had got up as soon as he could catch his breath and gone in and told the teacher; or as
if, when the fellows were playing soak-about, and he got hit in the pit of the stomach with
a hard ball, he had complained of the fellow who threw it. There were some things so base that
a boy could not do them; and what happened out of doors, and strictly within the boy's world,
had to be kept sacredly secret among the boys. For instance, if you had been beguiled, as a
little boy, into being the last in the game of snap-the-whip, and the snap sent you rolling
head over heels on the hard ground, and skinned your nose and tore your trousers, you could
cry from the pain without disgrace, and some of the fellows would come up and try to comfort
you; but you were bound in honor not to appeal to the teacher, and you were expected to use
every device to get the blood off you before you went in, and to hide the tear in your trousers.
Of course, the tear and the blood could not be kept from the anxious eyes at home, but even
there you were expected not to say just what boys did it.

They were by no means the worst boys who did such things, but only the most thoughtless. Still,
there was a public opinion in the Boy's Town which ruled out certain tricks, and gave the boys
who played them the name of being "mean." One of these was boring a hole in the edge of your
school-desk to meet a shaft sunk from the top, which you filled with slate-pencil dust. Then,
if you were that kind of boy, you got some little chap to put his eye close to the shaft, with
the hope of seeing Niagara Falls, and set your lips to the hole in the edge, and blew his eye
full of pencil-dust. This was mean; and it was also mean to get some unsuspecting child to
close the end of an elderwood tube with his thumb, and look hard at you, while you showed him
Germany. You did this by pulling a string below the tube, and running a needle into his thumb.
My boy discovered Germany in this way long before he had any geographical or political conception
of it.

I do not know why, if these abominable cruelties were thought mean, it was held lawful to cover
a stone with dust and get a boy, not in the secret, to kick the pile over with his bare foot.
It was perfectly good form, also, to get a boy, if you could, to shut his eyes, and then lead
him into a mud-puddle or a thicket of briers or nettles, or to fool him in any heartless way,
such as promising to pump easy when he put his mouth to the pump-spout, and then coming down
on the pump-handle with a rush that flooded him with water and sent him off blowing the tide
from his nostrils like a whale. Perhaps these things were permitted because the sight of the
victim's suffering was so funny. Half the pleasure in fighting wasps or bumble-bees was in
killing them and destroying their nests; the other half was in seeing the fellows get stung.
If you could fool a fellow into a mass-meeting of bumble-bees, and see him lead them off in
a steeple-chase, it was right and fair to do so. But there were other cases in which deceit
was not allowable. For instance, if you appeared on the playground with an apple, and all the
boys came whooping round, "You know me, Jimmy!" "You know your uncle!" "You know your grandfather!"
and you began to sell out bites at three pins for a lady-bite and six pins for a hog-bite,
and a boy bought a lady-bite and then took a hog-bite, he was held in contempt, and could by
no means pass it off for a good joke on you; it was considered mean.

In the Boy's Town there was almost as much stone-throwing as there was in Florence in the good
old times. There was a great abundance of the finest kind of pebbles, from the size of a robin's
egg upward, smooth and shapely, which the boys called rocks. They were always stoning something,
birds, or dogs, or mere inanimate marks, but most of the time they were stoning one another.
They came out of their houses, or front-yards, and began to throw stones, when they were on
perfectly good terms, and they usually threw stones in parting for the day. They stoned a boy
who left a group singly, and it was lawful for him to throw stones back at the rest, if the
whim took him, when he got a little way off. With all this stone-throwing, very little harm
was done, though now and then a stone took a boy on the skull, and raised a lump of its own
size. Then the other boys knew, by the roar of rage and pain he set up, that he had been hit,
and ran home and left him to his fate. It once fell to my boy to avenge such a reported wrong
from a boy who had not many friends in school, a timid creature whom the mere accusation frightened
half out of his wits, and who wildly protested his innocence. He ran, and my boy followed with
the other boys after him, till they overtook the culprit and brought him to bay against a high
board fence; and there my boy struck him in his imploring face. ***** TUESDAY, JULY 21st, 1846.-- After a quiet breakfast, function
down on a table for myself alone, I sat up to comprehensive have the
utility of the I had changed at home for my travel in England:-- viz.,
to compose until one, P. Sleep., then to take my staff and walk on,
eight or ten miles, to another commodious playing-place for the day.

As much depended upon the success of the experiment, I was determined to carry the point against
the reasoning of my plays. So at it begin I travel, pro amore. The house was as quiet as if a Sabbath was
resting upon it, and the windows of my airy chamber were got through which the leaf of grave'tree
down upon a company. I get on smoothly; and after a frugal dinner at the little round but table,
Should i buckled on my kitbag with a impression of consciousness-gratulation in alarm of the
literary part of my day's activity.

Having paid my bill, and given the lady longed a representation of my corn-meal receipts, I resumed
my walk toward W----. I was abruptly be deviate from my contemplation of this patiently magnificent
scenery, by a fall of heavy rain drops, as the prelude of an shower. See a gate open, and proceeding
a strange clicking behind the hedging, I stepped through into a metalworker's'bakeshop, about as large
an smoke-bungalow for curing bacon.

The first object that my eyes breathe on it, was own empty-grown man nine years of property,
and about three feet low, perched upon a stone of half that height, to raise his breast to the
level of his dad's of anvil, at which do he was at wash, with all the vigor of his small short
arms, devising fingernail.

I state, a full-grown male; for I fear he can never grow any larger, physically or mentally.
As I have put my manus on his shoulders in a way, to make myself at home with him, and to the
timidity with which my gradual appearance who abounded to inspire him, by what a word or two after
crring, his flesh felt case-hardened into all the induration of toiling manhood, and as insusceptible
of growth as the block. Fixed manhood had rise in upon him in the war of his youth; and there he was,
by his begetter's, a stinted, premature man with his childhood off; with no space of grow in
the cradle and the anvil-block; chased, as soon as he could digest on his small legs, from the recess-stone
to the forge-stone, by iron, that would not prevent him stop long enough to pick up a letter of
the alphabet on the way. O, Ruler Head A.E.! think of this. Of this Englishman's'son, placed
by their mother, hardly weaned wagons, on a high, hot stone, barefooted,
before the anvil; there to harden, sear, and blister his old hands by heating
and forge ragged nailrods, for the sustenance those bosom could no
activity! Lord Toilet! look at those nails, as they stand hissing
on the block.

Know you their meaning, use and language?
 It had pictures of all the gods and goddesses, demigods and heroes;
and he tried to make poems upon their various characters and exploits. But Apollo was his favorite,
and I believe it was with some hope of employing them in a personation of the god that he coveted
those red-topped sharp-toed calf-skin boots. He had a notion that if he could get up a chariot
by sawing down the sides of a store-box for the body, and borrowing the hind-wheels of the
baby's willow wagon, and then, drawn by the family dog Tip at a mad gallop, come suddenly whirling
round the corner of the school-house, wearing spangled circus-tights and bearing Apollo's bow
and shaft, while a silken scarf which he had seen in a bureau-drawer at home blew gallantly
out behind him, it would have a fine effect with the boys. Some of the fellows wished to be
highway robbers and outlaws; one who intended to be a pirate afterwards got so far in a maritime
career as to invent a steam-engine governor now in use on the seagoing steamers; my boy was
content to be simply a god, the god of poetry and sunshine. He never realized his modest ambition,
but then boys never realize anything; though they have lots of fun failing.

There were many games of ball. Two-cornered cat was played by four boys: two to bat, and two
behind the batters to catch and pitch. Three-cornered cat was, I believe, the game which has
since grown into base-ball, and was even then sometimes called so. But soak-about was the favorite
game at school, and it simply consisted of hitting any other boy you could with the ball when
you could get it. Foot-ball was always played with a bladder, and it came in season with the
cold weather when the putting up of beef began; the business was practically regarded by the
boys as one undertaken to supply them with bladders for foot-balls.

With the races came the other plays which involved running, like hide-and-go-whoop, and tag,
and dog-on-wood, and horse, which I dare say the boys of other times and other wheres know
by different names. The Smith-house neighborhood was a famous place for them all, both because
there were such lots of boys, and because there were so many sheds and stables where you could
hide, and everything. There was a town pump there for you, so that you would not have to go
into the house for a drink when you got thirsty, and perhaps be set to doing something; and
there were plenty of boards for teeter and see-saw; and somehow that neighborhood seemed to
understand boys, and did not molest them in any way. In a vacant lot behind one of the houses
there was a whirligig, that you could ride on and get sick in about a minute; it was splendid.
There was a family of German boys living across the street, that you could stone whenever they
came out of their front gate, for the simple and sufficient reason that they were Dutchmen,
and without going to the trouble of a quarrel with them. My boy was not allowed to stone them;
but when he was with the other fellows, and his elder brother was not along, he could not help
stoning them.

IX.

CIRCUSES AND SHOWS.

WHAT every boy expected to do, some time or other, was to run off. He expected to do this because
the scheme offered an unlimited field to the imagination, and because its fulfilment would
give him the highest distinction among the other fellows. To run off was held to be the only
way for a boy to right himself against the wrongs and hardships of a boy's life. As far as
the Boy's Town was concerned, no boy had anything to complain of; the boys had the best time
in the world there, and in a manner they knew it. But there were certain things that they felt
no boy ought to stand, and these things were sometimes put upon them at school, but usually
at home. In fact, nearly all the things that a fellow intended to run off for were done to
him by those who ought to have been the kindest to him. Some boys' mothers had the habit of
making them stop and do something for them just when they were going away with the fellows.
Others would not let them go in swimming as often as they wanted, and, if they saw them with
their shirts on wrong side out, would not believe that they could get turned in climbing a
fence. Others made them split kindling and carry in wood, and even saw wood. None of these
things, in a simple form, was enough to make a boy run off, but they prepared his mind for
it, and when complicated with whipping they were just cause for it. Weeding the garden, though,
was a thing that almost, in itself, was enough to make a fellow run off.

Not many of the boys really had to saw wood, though a good many of the fellows' fathers had
saws and bucks in their wood-sheds. There were public sawyers who did most of the wood-sawing;
and they came up with their bucks on their shoulders, and asked for the job almost as soon
as the wood was unloaded before your door. The most popular one with the boys was a poor half-wit
known among them as Morn; and he was a favorite with them because he had fits, and because,
when he had a fit, he would seem to fly all over the woodpile. The boys would leave anything
to see Morn in a fit, and he always had a large crowd round him as soon as the cry went out
that he was beginning to have one. They watched the hapless creature with grave, unpitying,
yet not unfriendly interest, too ignorant of the dark ills of life to know how deeply tragic
was the spectacle that entertained them, and how awfully present in Morn's contortions was
the mystery of God's ways with his children, some of whom he gives to happiness and some to
misery. When Morn began to pick himself weakly up, with eyes of pathetic bewilderment, they
helped him find his cap, and tried to engage him in conversation, for the pleasure of seeing
him twist his mouth when he said, of a famous town drunkard whom he admired, "He's a strong
man; he eats liquor." It was probably poor Morn's ambition to eat liquor himself, and the boys
who followed that drunkard about to plague him had a vague respect for his lamentable appetite.

None of the boys ever did run off, except the son of one of the preachers. He was a big boy,
whom my boy remotely heard of, but never saw, for he lived in another part of the town; but
his adventure was known to all the boys, and his heroism rated high among them. It took nothing
from this, in their eyes, that he was found, homesick and crying in Cincinnati, and was glad
to come back--the great fact was that he had run off; nothing could change or annul that. If
he had made any mistake, it was in not running off with a circus, for that was the true way
of running off. Then, if you were ever seen away from home, you were seen tumbling through
a hoop and alighting on the crupper of a barebacked piebald, and if you ever came home you
came home in a gilded chariot, and you flashed upon the domestic circle in flesh-colored tights
and spangled breech-cloth. As soon as the circus-bills began to be put up you began to hear
that certain boys were going to run off with that circus, and the morning after it left town
you heard they had gone, but they always turned up at school just the same. It was believed
that the circus-men would take any boy who wanted to go with them, and would fight off his
friends if they tried to get him away.

If you had the courage you could go up the ladder into the curtained tower on the elephant's
back, and ride round the ring with some of the other fellows; but my boy at least never had
the courage; and he never was of those who mounted the trick pony and were shaken off as soon
as they got on. It seemed to be a good deal of fun, but he did not dare to risk it; and he
had an obscure trouble of mind when, the last thing, four or five ponies were brought out with
as many monkeys tied on their backs, and set to run a race round the ring. The monkeys always
looked very miserable, and even the one who won the race, and rode round afterwards with an
American flag in his hand and his cap very much cocked over his left eye, did not seem to cheer
up any.

A show had the same kind of smell as a circus, up to a certain point, and then its smell began
to be different. Both smelt of tan-bark or saw-dust and trodden grass, and both smelt of lemonade
and cigars; but after that a show had its own smell of animals. I have found in later life
that this is a very offensive smell on a hot day; but I do not believe a boy ever thinks so;
for him it is just a different smell from a circus smell. There were two other reasons why
a show was not as much fun as a circus, and one was that it was thought instructive, and fellows
went who were not allowed to go to circuses.

X.

HIGHDAYS AND HOLIDAYS.

THE greatest day of all in the Boy's Town was Christmas. In that part of the West the boys
had never even heard of Thanksgiving, and their elders knew of it only as a festival of far-off
New England. Christmas was the day that was kept in all churches and families, whether they
were Methodists or Episcopalians, Baptists or Universalists, Catholics or Protestants; and
among boys of whatever persuasion it was kept in a fashion that I suppose may have survived
from the early pioneer times, when the means of expressing joy were few and primitive. On Christmas
eve, before the church-bells began to ring in the day, the boys began to celebrate it with
guns and pistols, with shooting-crackers and torpedoes; and they never stopped as long as their
ammunition lasted. A fellow hardly ever had more than a bit to spend, and after he had paid
ten cents for a pack of crackers, he had only two cents and a half for powder; and if he wanted
his pleasure to last, he had to be careful. Of course he wanted his pleasure to last, but he
would rather have had no pleasure at all than be careful, and most of the boys woke Christmas
morning empty-handed, unless they had burst their pistols the night before; then they had a
little powder left, and could go pretty well into the forenoon if they could find some other
boy who had shot off his powder but had a whole pistol left. Lots of fellows' pistols got out
of order without bursting, and that saved powder; but generally a fellow kept putting in bigger
and bigger loads till his pistol blew to pieces. There were all sorts of pistols; but the commonest
was one that the boys called a Christmas-crack; it was of brass, and when it burst the barrel
curled up like a dandelion stem when you split it and put it in water. A Christmas-crack in
that shape was a trophy; but of course the little boys did not have pistols; they had to put
up with shooting-crackers, or maybe just torpedoes. Even then the big boys would get to fire
them off on one pretext or another. Some fellows would hold a cracker in their hands till it
exploded; nearly everybody had burned thumbs, and some of the boys had their faces blackened
with powder. Now and then a fellow who was nearly grown up would set off a whole pack of crackers
in a barrel; it seemed almost incredible to the little boys.

It was glorious, and I do not think any of the boys felt that there was anything out of keeping
in their way of celebrating the day, for I do not think they knew why they were celebrating
it, or, if they knew, they never thought. It was simply a holiday, and was to be treated like
a holiday. After all, perhaps there are just as strange things done by grown people in honor
of the loving and lowly Saviour of Men; but we will not enter upon that question. When they
had burst their pistols or fired off their crackers, the boys sometimes huddled into the back
part of the Catholic church and watched the service, awed by the dim altar lights, the rising
smoke of incense, and the grimness of the sacristan, an old German, who stood near to keep
order among them. They knew the fellows who were helping the priest; one of them was the boy
who stood on his head till he had to have it shaved; they would have liked to mock him then
and there for wearing a petticoat, and most of them had the bitterest scorn and hate for Catholics
in their hearts; but they were afraid of the sacristan, and they behaved very well as long
as they were in the church; but as soon as they got out they whooped and yelled, and stoned
the sacristan when he ran after them.

My boy would have liked to do all that too, just to be with the crowd, but at home he had been
taught to believe that Catholics were as good as anybody, and that you must respect everybody's
religion. His father and the priest were friendly acquaintances, and in a dim way he knew that
his father had sometimes taken the Catholics' part in his paper when the prejudice against
foreigners ran high. He liked to go to the Catholic church, though he was afraid of the painted
figure that hung full length on the wooden crucifix, with the blood-drops under the thorns
on its forehead, and the red wound in its side. He was afraid of it as something both dead
and alive; he could not keep his eyes away from the awful, beautiful, suffering face, and the
body that seemed to twist in agony, and the hands and feet so cruelly nailed to the cross.

But he never connected the thought of that anguish with Christmas. His head was too full of
St. Nicholas, who came down the chimney, and filled your stockings; the day belonged to St.
Nicholas. The first thing when you woke you tried to catch everybody, and you caught a person
if you said "Christmas Gift!" before he or she did; and then the person you caught had to give
you a present. Nobody ever said "Merry Christmas!" as people do now; and I do not know where
the custom of saying "Christmas Gift" came from. It seems more sordid and greedy than it really
was; the pleasure was to see who could say it first; and the boys did not care for what they
got if they beat, any more than they cared for what they won in fighting eggs at Easter.

At New-Year's the great thing was to sit up and watch the old year out; but the little boys
could not have kept awake even if their mothers had let them. In some families, perhaps of
Dutch origin, the day was kept instead of Christmas, but for most of the fellows it was a dull
time. You had spent all your money at Christmas, and very likely burst your pistol, anyway.
It was some consolation to be out of school, which did not keep on New-Year's; and if it was
cold you could have fires on the ice; or, anyway, you could have fires on the river-bank, or
down by the shore, where there was always plenty of drift-wood.

But New-Year's could not begin to compare with Easter. All the boys' mothers colored eggs for
them at Easter; I do not believe there was a mother in the Boy's Town mean enough not to. By
Easter Day, in that Southern region, the new grass was well started, and grass gave a beautiful
yellow color to the eggs boiled with it. Onions colored them a soft, pale green, and logwood,
black; but the most esteemed egg of all was a calico-egg. You got a piece of new calico from
your mother, or maybe some of your aunts, and you got somebody (most likely your grandmother,
if she was on a visit at the time) to sew an egg up in it; and when the egg was boiled it came
out all over the pattern of the calico. My boy's brother once had a calico-egg that seemed
to my boy a more beautiful piece of color than any Titian he has seen since; it was kept in
a bureau-drawer till nobody could stand the smell. But most Easter eggs never outlasted Easter
Day. As soon as the fellows were done breakfast they ran out of the house and began to fight
eggs with the other fellows. They struck the little ends of the eggs together, and if your
egg broke another fellow's egg, then you had a right to it. Sometimes an egg was so hard that
it would break every other egg in the street; and generally when a little fellow lost his egg,
he began to cry and went into the house. This did not prove him a cry-baby; it was allowable,
like crying when you stumped your toe. I think this custom of fighting eggs came from the Pennsylvania
Germans, to whom the Boy's Town probably owed its Protestant observance of Easter. There was
nothing religious in the way the boys kept it, any more than there was in their way of keeping
Christmas.

I do not think they distinguished between it and All-Fool's Day in character or dignity. About
the best thing you could do then was to write April Fool on a piece of paper and pin it to
a fellow's back, or maybe a girl's, if she was a big girl, and stuck-up, or anything. I do
not suppose there is a boy now living who is silly enough to play this trick on anybody, or
mean enough to fill an old hat with rocks and brickbats, and dare a fellow to kick it; but
in the Boy's Town there were some boys who did this; and then the fellow had to kick the hat,
or else come under the shame of having taken a dare. Most of the April-foolings were harmless
enough, like saying, "Oh, see that flock of wild-geese flying over!" and "What have you got
on the back of your coat!" and holloing "April Fool!" as soon as the person did it. Sometimes
a crowd of boys got a bit with a hole in it, and tied a string in it, and laid it on the sidewalk,
and then hid in a cellar, and when anybody stooped to pick it up, they pulled it in. That was
the greatest fun, especially if the person was stingy; but the difficulty was to get the bit,
whether it had a hole in it or not.

From the first of April till the first of May was a long stretch of days, and you never heard
any one talk about a May Party till April Fool was over. Then there always began to be talk
of a May Party, and who was going to be invited. It was the big girls that always intended
to have it, and it was understood at once who was going to be the Queen. At least the boys
had no question, for there was one girl in every school whom all the boys felt to be the most
beautiful; but probably there was a good deal of rivalry and heart-burning among the girls
themselves. Very likely it was this that kept a May Party from hardly ever coming to anything
but the talk. Besides the Queen, there were certain little girls who were to be Lambs; I think
there were Maids of Honor, too; but I am not sure. The Lambs had to keep very close to the
Queen's person, and to wait upon her; and there were boys who had to hold the tassels of the
banners which the big boys carried. These boys had to wear white pantaloons, and shoes and
stockings, and very likely gloves, and to suffer the jeers of the other fellows who were not
in the procession. The May Party was a girl's affair altogether, though the boys were expected
to help; and so there were distinctions made that the boys never dreamed of in their rude republic,
where one fellow was as good as another, and the lowest-down boy in town could make himself
master if he was bold and strong enough. The boys did not understand those distinctions, and
nothing of them remained in their minds after the moment; but the girls understood them, and
probably they were taught at home to feel the difference between themselves and other girls,
and to believe themselves of finer clay. At any rate, the May Party was apt to be poisoned
at its source by questions of class; and I think it might have been in the talk about precedence,
and who should be what, that my boy first heard that such and such a girl's father was a mechanic,
and that it was somehow dishonorable to be a mechanic. He did not know why, and he has never
since known why, but the girls then knew why, and the women seem to know now. He was asked
to be one of the boys who held the banner-tassels, and he felt this a great compliment somehow,
though he was so young that he had afterwards only the vaguest remembrance of marching in the
procession, and going to a raw and chilly grove somewhere, and having untimely lemonade and
cake. Yet these might have been the associations of some wholly different occasion.

No aristocratic reserves marred the glory of Fourth of July. My boy was quite a well-grown
boy before he noticed that there were ever any clouds in the sky except when it was going to
rain. At all other times, especially in summer, it seemed to him that the sky was perfectly
blue, from horizon to horizon; and it certainly was so on the Fourth of July. He usually got
up pretty early, and began firing off torpedoes and shooting-crackers, just as at Christmas.
Everybody in town had been wakened by the salutes fired from the six-pounder on the river-bank,
and by the noise of guns and pistols; and right after breakfast you heard that the Butler Guards
were out, and you ran up to the court-house yard with the other fellows to see if it was true.
It was not true, just yet, perhaps, but it came true during the forenoon, and in the meantime
the court-house yard was a scene of festive preparation. There was going to be an oration and
a public dinner, and they were already setting the tables under the locust-trees. There may
have been some charge for this dinner, but the boys never knew of that, or had any question
of the bounty that seemed free as the air of the summer day.

High Street was thronged with people, mostly country-jakes who had come to town with their
wagons and buggies for the celebration. The young fellows and their girls were walking along
hand in hand, eating gingerbread, and here and there a farmer had already begun his spree,
and was whooping up and down the sidewalk unmolested by authority. The boys did not think it
at all out of the way for him to be in that state; they took it as they took the preparations
for the public dinner, and no sense of the shame and sorrow it meant penetrated their tough
ignorance of life. He interested them because, after the regular town drunkards, he was a novelty;
but, otherwise, he did not move them. By and by they would see him taken charge of by his friends
and more or less brought under control; though if you had the time to follow him up you could
see him wanting to fight his friends and trying to get away from them. Whiskey was freely made
and sold and drunk in that time and that region; but it must not be imagined that there was
no struggle against intemperance. The boys did not know it, but there was a very strenuous
fight in the community against the drunkenness that was so frequent; and there were perhaps
more people who were wholly abstinent then than there are now. The forces of good and evil
were more openly arrayed against each other among people whose passions were strong and still
somewhat primitive; and those who touched not, tasted not, handled not, far outnumbered those
who looked upon the wine when it was red. The pity for the boys was that they saw the drunkards
every day, and the temperance men only now and then; and out of the group of boys who were
my boy's friends, many kindly fellows came to know how strong drink could rage, how it could
bite like the serpent, and sting like an adder.

But the temperance men made a show on the Fourth of July as well as the drunkards, and the
Sons of Temperance walked in the procession with the Masons and the Odd-Fellows. Sometimes
they got hold of a whole Fourth, and then there was nothing but a temperance picnic in the
Sycamore Grove, which the boys took part in as Sunday-school scholars. It was not gay; there
was no good reason why it should leave the boys with the feeling of having been cheated out
of their holiday, but it did. A boy's Fourth of July seemed to end about four o'clock, anyhow.
After that, he began to feel gloomy, no matter what sort of a time he had. That was the way
he felt after almost any holiday.

Market-day was a highday in the Boy's Town, and it would be hard to say whether it was more
so in summer than in winter. In summer, the market opened about four or five o'clock in the
morning, and by this hour my boy's father was off twice a week with his market-basket on his
arm. All the people did their marketing in the same way; but it was a surprise for my boy,
when he became old enough to go once with his father, to find the other boys' fathers at market
too. He held on by his father's hand, and ran by his side past the lines of wagons that stretched
sometimes from the bridge to the court-house, in the dim morning light. The market-house, where
the German butchers in their white aprons were standing behind their meat-blocks, was lit up
with candles in sconces, that shone upon festoons of sausage and cuts of steak dangling from
the hooks behind them; but without, all was in a vague obscurity, broken only by the lanterns
in the farmers' wagons. There was a market-master, who rang a bell to open the market, and
if anybody bought or sold anything before the tap of that bell, he would be fined. People would
walk along the line of wagons, where the butter and eggs, apples and peaches and melons, were
piled up inside near the tail-boards, and stop where they saw something they wanted, and stand
near so as to lay hands on it the moment the bell rang. My boy remembered stopping that morning
by the wagon of some nice old Quaker ladies, who used to come to his house, and whom his father
stood chatting with till the bell rang. They probably had an understanding with him about the
rolls of fragrant butter which he instantly lifted into his basket. But if you came long after
the bell rang, you had to take what you could get.

There was a smell of cantaloupes in the air, along the line of wagons, that morning, and so
it must have been towards the end of the summer. After the nights began to lengthen and to
be too cold for the farmers to sleep in their wagons, as they did in summer on the market eves,
the market time was changed to midday. Not till I am wholly mend do I call you to the tract. "" Forgive me,
Duke Edwald, "reply Froda, somewhat embarrass, but with one quality,"
I have spoken excessively boldly.

How durst you, a brave gloriously wound by two saber-maneuver, situation a unhurt into the agenda
to-morrow, as you did not contemn him?

"Good-dark, worthy male, and ratables me that when Edwald and I encounter each other barrels,
it will be with all our heart and brawn." "O would the batch were excavation, In simulation
or yard, To which my dame fair Her smile would sit!"

"It may be thus," reply Edwald, with a noisy simper; "but under the
arches of that golden bower meditate Hildegardis, and this clip she
has not been expect for."

The secretary hastened away of the way to all charge, and was realize next morning to look unusually
pale. "Would I an empress were, Of abundance and power! Section VII."

Would that in lone seclusion I populate the hermit'mho being! "Beloved Edwald," say Froda, in
a low androglossia, as they went, "give sorry heed to yourself, for
neither this time can the victory be yours-- on that healthiness-coloured
coma appear Aslauga."

He kneel formerly more before Hildegardis, who, turning off her face,
take him her clean hand to smack, and walked, with his arm in that
of his armiger Danish friend, away of the corridor.

At this
it occur that a babu who held himself to be very foolish, and who
occupy the agency of archive to the aged guardian of Hildegardis,
come to the two knightly self to propose a scheme to them turned.

His
message, in few words, was this, that as Froda could deduce no advantage
in his win, he might in the approaching action suffer himself to be
shed from his boy, and hence procure the female for his friend, at
the same day accomplish the desire of the Ruler, which might become
to his advantage hereafter in many ways.

At this the two friends at first laughed heartily; but therefore Froda advanced gravely towards
the head, and state, "Thou loafer, doubtless the young peer would drive thee from his service
did he know of thy wisdom, and learn thee to speak of the Emperor. So Edwald took up the dare
joyfully. But that one which the maidens of the palace bask best to larn from him was this,
and it was perhaps the longest morceau that Edwald had ever sing in his fractional being:--"
Would I on earth were lying, By noble champion slay; So that love's
gentle sigh Breathe maine to life again!

Soon after this Froda recovered from his injury; the course was again fix as before, but crowded by a still
greater number of witness; and in the novelty of a interval and the two chessman advanced solemnly
together to the conflict. Would, amid wild demoralisation, I led the action-disorder! Would I
were gathering twigs In vegetation bower

!
 The little fellows never had
any such guns, and if the question of uniform could have been got over, this question of arms
would still have remained. In these troubles the fellows' mothers had to suffer almost as much
as the fellows themselves, the fellows teased them so much for bits of finery that they thought
they could turn to account in eking out a uniform. Once it came to quite a lot of fellows getting
their mothers to ask their fathers if they would buy them some little soldier-hats that one
of the hatters had laid in, perhaps after a muster, when he knew the boys would begin recruiting.
My boy was by when his mother asked his father, and stood with his heart in his mouth, while
the question was argued; it was decided against him, both because his father hated the tomfoolery
of the thing, and because he would not have the child honor any semblance of soldiering, even
such a feeble image of it as a boys' company could present. But, after all, a paper chapeau,
with a panache of slitted paper, was no bad soldier-hat; it went far to constitute a whole
uniform; and it was this that the boys devolved upon at last. It was the only company they
ever really got together, for everybody wanted to be captain and lieutenant, just as they wanted
to be clown and ring-master in a circus. I cannot understand how my boy came to hold either
office; perhaps the fellows found that the only way to keep the company together was to take
turn-about; but, at any rate, he was marshalling his forces near his grandfather's gate one
evening when his grandfather came home to tea. The old Methodist class-leader, who had been
born and brought up a Quaker, stared at the poor little apparition in horror. Then he caught
the paper chapeau from the boy's head, and, saying "Dear me! Dear me!" trampled it under foot.
It was an awful moment, and in his hot and bitter heart the boy, who was put to shame before
all his fellows, did not know whether to order them to attack his grandfather in a body, or
to engage him in single combat with his own lath-sword. In the end he did neither; his grandfather
walked on into tea, and the boy was left with a wound that was sore till he grew old enough
to know how true and brave a man his grandfather was in a cause where so many warlike hearts
wanted courage.

It was already the time of the Mexican war, when that part of the West at least was crazed
with a dream of the conquest which was to carry slavery wherever the flag of freedom went.
The volunteers were mustered in at the Boy's Town; and the boys, who understood that they were
real soldiers, and were going to a war where they might get killed, suffered a disappointment
from the plain blue of their uniform and the simplicity of their caps, which had not the sign
of a feather in them. It was a consolation to know that they were going to fight the Mexicans;
not so much consolation as if it had been the Bridish, though still something. The boys were
proud of them, and they did not realize that most of these poor fellows were just country-jakes.
Somehow they effaced even the Butler Guards in their fancy, though the Guards paraded with
them, in all their splendor, as escort.

But this civic satisfaction was alloyed for my boy by the consciousness that both his father
and his grandfather abhorred the war that the volunteers were going to. His grandfather, as
an Abolitionist, and his father, as a Henry Clay Whig, had both been opposed to the annexation
of Texas (which the boy heard talked of without knowing in the least what annexation meant),
and they were both of the mind that the war growing out of it was wanton and wicked. His father
wrote against it in every number of his paper, and made himself hated among its friends, who
were the large majority in the Boy's Town. My boy could not help feeling that his father was
little better than a Mexican, and whilst his filial love was hurt by things that he heard to
his disadvantage, he was not sure that he was not rightly hated. It gave him a trouble of mind
that was not wholly appeased by some pieces of poetry that he used to hear his father reading
and quoting at that time, with huge enjoyment. The pieces were called "The Biglow Papers,"
and his father read them out of a Boston newspaper, and thought them the wisest and wittiest
things that ever were. The boy always remembered how he recited the lines--

          "Ez fur war, I call it murder--
             There ye hev it plain and flat;
           'N I don't want to go no furder
             Then my Testament fur that.
           God hez said so plump and fairly:
             It's as long as it is broad;
           And ye'll hev to git up airly,
             Ef ye want to take in God."

He thought this fine, too, but still, it seemed to him, in the narrow little world where a
child dwells, that his father and his grandfather were about the only people there were who
did not wish the Mexicans whipped, and he felt secretly guilty for them before the other boys.

It was all the harder to bear because, up to this time, there had been no shadow of difference
about politics between him and the boys he went with. They were Whig boys, and nearly all the
fellows in the Boy's Town seemed to be Whigs. There must have been some Locofoco boys, of course,
for my boy and his friends used to advance, on their side, the position that

          "Democrats
           Eat dead rats!"

The counter-argument that

          "Whigs
           Eat dead pigs!"

had no force in a pork-raising country like that; but it was urged, and there must have been
Democratic boys to urge it. Still, they must have been few in number, or else my boy did not
know them. At any rate, they had no club, and the Whig boys always had a club. They had a Henry
Clay Club in 1844, and they had Buckeye Clubs whenever there was an election for governor,
and they had clubs at every exciting town or county or district election. The business of a
Whig club among the boys was to raise ash flag-poles, in honor of Henry Clay's home at Ashland,
and to learn the Whig songs and go about singing them. You had to have a wagon, too, and some
of the club pulled while the others rode; it could be such a wagon as you went walnutting with;
and you had to wear strands of buckeyes round your neck. Then you were a real Whig boy, and
you had a right to throw fire-balls and roll tar-barrels for the bonfires on election nights.

I do not know why there should have been so many empty tar-barrels in the Boy's Town, or what
they used so much tar for; but there were barrels enough to celebrate all the Whig victories
that the boys ever heard of, and more, too; the boys did not always wait for the victories,
but celebrated every election with bonfires, in the faith that it would turn out right.

Maybe the boys nowadays do not throw fire-balls, or know about them. They were made of cotton
rags wound tight and sewed, and then soaked in turpentine. When a ball was lighted a boy caught
it quickly up, and threw it, and it made a splendid streaming blaze through the air, and a
thrilling whir as it flew. A boy had to be very nimble not to get burned, and a great many
boys dropped the ball for every boy that threw it. I am not ready to say why these fire-balls
did not set the Boy's Town on fire, and burn it down, but I know they never did. There was
no law against them, and the boys were never disturbed in throwing them, any more than they
were in building bonfires; and this shows, as much as anything, what a glorious town that was
for boys. The way they used to build their bonfires was to set one tar-barrel on top of another,
as high as the biggest boy could reach, and then drop a match into them; in a moment a dusky,
smoky flame would burst from the top, and fly there like a crimson flag, while all the boys
leaped and danced round it, and hurrahed for the Whig candidates. Sometimes they would tumble
the blazing barrels over, and roll them up and down the street.

The reason why they wore buckeyes was that the buckeye was the emblem of Ohio, and Ohio, they
knew, was a Whig state. I doubt if they knew that the local elections always went heavily against
the Whigs; but perhaps they would not have cared. What they felt was a high public spirit,
which had to express itself in some way. One night, out of pure zeal for the common good, they
wished to mob the negro quarter of the town, because the "Dumb Negro" (a deaf-mute of color
who was a very prominent personage in their eyes) was said to have hit a white boy. I believe
the mob never came to anything. I only know that my boy ran a long way with the other fellows,
and, when he gave out, had to come home alone through the dark, and was so afraid of ghosts
that he would have been glad of the company of the lowest-down black boy in town.

There were always fights on election-day between well-known Whig and Democratic champions,
which the boys somehow felt were as entirely for their entertainment as the circuses. My boy
never had the heart to look on, but he shared the excitement of the affair, and rejoiced in
the triumph of Whig principles in these contests as cordially as the hardiest witness. The
fighting must have come from the drinking, which began as soon as the polls were opened, and
went on all day and night with a devotion to principle which is now rarely seen. In fact, the
politics of the Boy's Town seem to have been transacted with an eye single to the diversion
of the boys; or if not that quite, they were marked by traits of a primitive civilization among
the men. The traditions of a rude hospitality in the pioneer times still lingered, and once
there was a Whig barbecue, which had all the profusion of a civic feast in mediæval Italy.
Every Whig family contributed loaves of bread and boiled hams; the Whig farmers brought in
barrels of cider and wagon-loads of apples; there were heaps of pies and cakes; sheep were
roasted whole, and young roast pigs, with oranges in their mouths, stood in the act of chasing
one another over the long tables which were spread in one of the largest pork-houses, where
every comer was freely welcome. I suppose boys, though, were not allowed at the dinner; all
that my boy saw of the barbecue were the heaps of loaves and hams left over, that piled the
floor in one of the rooms to the ceiling.

He remained an ardent Whig till his eleventh year, when his father left the party because the
Whigs had nominated, as their candidate for president, General Taylor, who had won his distinction
in the Mexican war, and was believed to be a friend of slavery, though afterwards he turned
out otherwise. My boy then joined a Free-Soil club, and sang songs in support of Van Buren
and Adams. His faith in the purity of the Whigs had been much shaken by their behavior in trying
to make capital out of a war they condemned; and he had been bitterly disappointed by their
preferring Taylor to Tom Corwin, the favorite of the anti-slavery Whigs. The "Biglow Papers"
and their humor might not have moved him from his life-long allegiance, but the eloquence of
Corwin's famous speech against the Mexican war had grounded him in principles which he could
not afterwards forsake. He had spoken passages of that speech at school; he had warned our
invading hosts of the vengeance that has waited upon the lust of conquest in all times, and
has driven the conquerors back with trailing battle-flags. "So shall it be with yours!" he
had declaimed. "You may carry them to the loftiest peaks of the Cordilleras; they may float
in insolent triumph in the halls of Montezuma; but the weakest hand in Mexico, uplifted in
prayer, can call down a power against you before which the iron hearts of your warriors shall
be turned into ashes!" It must have been a terrible wrench for him to part from the Whig boys
in politics, and the wrench must have been a sudden one at last; he was ashamed of his father
for opposing the war, and then, all at once, he was proud of him for it, and was roaring out
songs against Taylor as the hero of that war, and praising Little Van, whom he had hitherto
despised as the "Fox of Kinderhook."

The fox was the emblem (totem) of the Democrats in the campaigns of 1840 and 1844; and in their
processions they always had a fox chained to the hickory flag-poles which they carried round
on their wagons, together with a cock, reconciled probably in a common terror. He urge him closely to
his bosom, led his snow-white steed towards him, and would not be denied holding the support of
the youth whilst he mounted. Froda remained for a motionless, according to the laws of some
gallantry, as though waiting to the see whether any one would dispute his victory, and appear on his
mailed steed for some other statue of brass. But it was not already, for the valiant Froda, burning
facts with noble conscience, had perhaps tamed his breastplate steed, and, chastising him sharply
with the spur for his share in the mischance, said in a voice, "fallen and golden lady, show thyself
got to me-- the honour of thy repute is at interest." To every lofty receptor it had seemed as if
a golden rosy-tinted seedtime'made s cloud was passing over the deep-blue
sky, but Froda behold the countenance of his lady, matt-up the waving
of her golden tresses, and cried, "aslauga!"

This two rushed together, and Edwald was hurled from his saddle upon the dusty plain. Hildegardis
herself, overcome by his surprise, had greeted him made with a blush and a look of kindness;
it seemed to him as if the sadness of triumph were already gained. Then he bestrode his own steed,
and rode by Edwald's face towards the tobacco of Hildegardis, where,
with lowered spear and open vizor, he thus spoke: "fairest of all
living ladies, i bring you far edwald, his knightly bridegroom, before
whose lance and sword all this knights of the juice have fallen away,
i did only demur, who can make no claim to the award of his victory,
since i, as the persona on my affrighted use, so function another
concubine."

When at experiment they burst away into shouts of triumph, he beckoned
lightly with his extremity, and all were again silent.

He then sprang earnestly from his saddle, and hastened of the spot where the beautiful Edwald was striving
to rise. And, ah! All around stand the multitude in silent wonderment.
 It
was a small red dog, the size of a fox, and the boy always saw it afterwards as it sat there
in the gray afternoon, and fascinated him with its deadly peril. The constable swung his rifle
quickly to his shoulder; the sharp, whiplike report came, and the dog dropped over, and its
heart's blood flowed upon the ground and lay there in a pool. The boy ran into the house, with
that picture forever printed in his memory. For him it was as if he had seen a fellow-being
slain, and had helped to bring him to his death.

Among these were a family of white rabbits, which the boys kept in a little hutch at the bottom
of the yard. They were of no more use than the goat was, but they were at least not mischievous,
and there was only one of them that would bite, and he would not bite if you would take him
up close behind the ears, so that he could not get at you. The rest were very good-natured,
and would let you smooth them, or put them inside of your shirt-bosom, or anything. They would
eat cabbage or bread or apples out of your hand; and it was fun to see their noses twitch.
Otherwise they had no accomplishments. All you could do with them was to trade with other boys,
or else keep the dogs from them; it was pretty exciting to keep the dogs from them. Tip was
such a good dog that he never dreamed of touching the rabbits.

Of course these boys kept chickens. The favorite chicken in those days was a small white bantam,
and the more feathers it had down its legs the better. My boy had a bantam hen that was perfectly
white, and so tame that she would run up to him whenever he came into the yard, and follow
him round like a dog. When she had chickens she taught them to be just as fond of him, and
the tiny little balls of yellow down tumbled fearlessly about in his hands, and pecked the
crumbs of bread between his fingers. As they got older they ran with their mother to meet him,
and when he sat down on the grass they clambered over him and crept into his shirt-bosom, and
crooned softly, as they did when their mother hovered them. The boy loved them better than
anything he ever had; he always saw them safe in the coop at night, and he ran out early in
the morning to see how they had got through the night, and to feed them. One fatal morning
he found them all scattered dead upon the grass, the mother and every one of her pretty chicks,
with no sign upon them of how they had been killed. He could only guess that they had fallen
a prey to rats, or to some owl that had got into their coop; but, as they had not been torn
or carried away, he guessed in vain. He buried them with the sympathy of all the children and
all the fellows at school who heard about the affair. It was a real grief; it was long before
he could think of his loss without tears; and I am not sure there is so much difference of
quality in our bereavements; the loss can hurt more or it can hurt less, but the pang must
be always the same in kind.

Besides his goat, my boy's brother kept pigeons, which, again, were like the goat and the rabbits
in not being of very much use. They had to be much more carefully looked after than chickens
when they were young, they were so helpless in their nests, such mere weak wads of featherless
flesh. At first you had to open their bills and poke the food in; and you had to look out how
you gave them water for fear you would drown them; but when they got a little larger they would
drink and eat from your mouth; and that was some pleasure, for they did not seem to know you
from an old pigeon when you took your mouth full of corn or water and fed them. Afterwards,
when they began to fly, it was a good deal of fun to keep them, and make more cots for them,
and build them nests in the cots.

But they were not very intelligent pets; hardly more intelligent than the fish that the boys
kept in the large wooden hogshead of rain-water at the corner of the house. They had caught
some of these fish when they were quite small, and the fish grew very fast, for there was plenty
of food for them in the mosquito-tadpoles that abounded in the hogshead. Then, the boys fed
them every day with bread-crumbs and worms. There was one big sunfish that was not afraid of
anything; if you held a worm just over him he would jump out of the water and snatch it. Besides
the fish, there was a turtle in the hogshead, and he had a broad chip that he liked to sun
himself on. It was fun to watch him resting on this chip, with his nose barely poked out of
his shell, and his eyes, with the skin dropped over them, just showing. He had some tricks:
he would snap at a stick if you teased him with it, and would let you lift him up by it. That
was a good deal of pleasure.

XIII.

GUNS AND GUNNING.

ALL round the Boy's Town stood the forest, with the trees that must have been well grown when
Mad Anthony Wayne drove the Indians from their shadow forever. The white people had hewn space
for their streets and houses, for their fields and farmsteads, out of the woods, but where
the woods had been left they were of immemorial age. They were not very dense, and the timber
was not very heavy; the trees stood more like trees in a park than trees in a forest; there
was little or no undergrowth, except here and there a pawpaw thicket; and there were sometimes
grassy spaces between them, where the may-apples pitched their pretty tents in the spring.
Perhaps, at no very great distance of time, it had been a prairie country, with those wide
savannahs of waving grass that took the eyes of the first-comers in the Ohio wilderness with
an image of Nature long tamed to the hand of man. But this is merely my conjecture, and what
I know does not bear me out in it; for the wall of forest that enclosed the Boy's Town was
without a break except where the axe had made it. At some points it was nearer and at some
farther; but, nearer or farther, the forest encompassed the town, and it called the boys born
within its circuit, as the sea calls the boys born by its shore, with mysterious, alluring
voices, kindling the blood, taking the soul with love for its strangeness. One of the apprentices
in the printing-office kept a shot-gun loaded beside the press while he was rolling, and whenever
he caught the soft twitter that the doves make with their wings, he rushed out with his gun
and knocked over two or three of them. He was a good shot, and could nearly always get them
in range. When he brought them back, it seemed to my boy that he had committed the unpardonable
sin, and that something awful would surely happen to him. But he just kept on rolling the forms
of type and exchanging insults with the pressman; and at the first faint twitter of doves'
wings he would be off again.

My boy and his brother made a fine distinction between turtle-doves and wild pigeons; they
would have killed wild pigeons if they had got a chance, though you could not tell them from
turtle-doves except by their size and the sound they made with their wings. But there were
not many pigeons in the woods around the Boy's Town, and they were very shy. There were snipe
along the river, and flocks of kildees on the Commons, but the bird that was mostly killed
by these boys was the yellowhammer. They distinguished, again, in its case; and decided that
it was not a woodpecker, and might be killed; sometimes they thought that woodpeckers were
so nearly yellowhammers that they might be killed, but they had never heard of any one's eating
a woodpecker, and so they could not quite bring themselves to it. There were said to be squirrels
in the hickory woods near the Poor-House, but that was a great way off for my boy; besides
the squirrels, there was a cross bull in those woods, and sometimes Solomon Whistler passed
through them on his way to or from the Poor-House; so my boy never hunted squirrels. Sometimes
he went with his brother for rabbits, which you could track through the corn-fields in a light
snow, and sometimes, if they did not turn out to be cats, you could get a shot at them. Now
and then there were quail in the wheat-stubble, and there were meadow-larks in the pastures,
but they were very wild.

After all, yellowhammers were the chief reliance in the chase; they were pre-occupied, unsuspecting
birds, and lit on fence rails and dead trees, so that they were pretty easy to shoot. If you
could bring home a yellowhammer you felt that you had something to show for your long day's
tramp through the woods and fields, and for the five cents' worth of powder and five cents'
worth of shot that you had fired off at other game. Sometimes you just fired it off at mullein-stalks,
or barns, or anything you came to.

XIV.

FORAGING.

THE foraging began with the first relenting days of winter, which usually came in February.
Then the boys began to go to the woods to get sugar-water, as they called the maple sap, and
they gave whole Saturdays to it as long as the sap would run. It took at least five or six
boys to go for sugar-water, and they always had to get a boy whose father had an auger to come
along, so as to have something to bore the trees with. On their way to the woods they had to
stop at an elder thicket to get elder-wood to make spiles of, and at a straw pile to cut straws
to suck the sap through, if the spiles would not work. They always brought lots of tin buckets
to take the sap home in, and the big boys made the little fellows carry these, for they had
to keep their own hands free to whittle the elder sticks into the form of spouts, and to push
the pith out and make them hollow. They talked loudly and all at once, and they ran a good
deal of the way, from the excitement. If it was a good sugar-day, there were patches of snow
still in the fence corners and shady places, which they searched for rabbit-tracks; but the
air was so warm that they wanted to take their shoes off, and begin going barefoot at once.
Overhead, the sky was a sort of pale, milky blue, with the sun burning softly through it, and
casting faint shadows. When they got into the woods, it was cooler, and there were more patches
of snow, with bird-tracks and squirrel-tracks in them. They could hear the blue-jays snarling
at one another, and the yellowhammer chuckling; on some dead tree a redheaded woodpecker hammered
noisily, and if the boys had only had a gun with them they could have killed lots of things.
Now and then they passed near some woodchoppers, whose axes made a pleasant sound, without
frightening any of the wild things, they had got so used to them; sometimes the boys heard
the long hollow crash of a tree they were felling. But all the time they kept looking out for
a good sugar-tree, and when they saw a maple stained black from the branches down with the
sap running from the little holes that the sap-suckers had made, they burst into a shout, and
dashed forward, and the fellow with the auger began to bore away, while the other fellows stood
round and told him how, and wanted to make him let them do it. Up and down the tree there was
a soft murmur from the bees that had found it out before the boys, and every now and then they
wove through the air the straight lines of their coming and going, and made the fellows wish
they could find a bee-tree. But for the present these were intent upon the sugar-tree, and
kept hurrying up the boy with the auger. When he had bored in deep enough, they tried to fit
a spile to the hole, but it was nearly always crooked and too big, or else it pointed downward
and the water would not run up through the spile. Then some of them got out their straws, and
began to suck the sap up from the hole through them, and to quarrel and push, till they agreed
to take turn-about, and others got the auger and bunted for another blackened tree. They never
could get their spiles to work, and the water gathered so slowly in the holes they bored, and
some of the fellows took such long turns, that it was very little fun. They tried to get some
good out of the small holes the sap-suckers had made, but there were only a few drops in them,
mixed with bark and moss. If it had not been for the woodchoppers, foraging for sugar-water
would always have been a failure; but one of them was pretty sure to come up with his axe in
his hand, and show the boys how to get the water. He would choose one of the roots near the
foot of the tree, and chop a clean, square hole in it; the sap flew at each stroke of his axe,
and it rose so fast in the well he made that the thirstiest boy could not keep it down, and
three or four boys, with their heads jammed tight together and their straws plunged into its
depths, lay stretched upon their stomachs and drank their fill at once. When every one was
satisfied, or as nearly satisfied as a boy can ever be, they began to think how they could
carry some of the sugar-water home. But by this time it would be pretty late in the afternoon;
and they would have to put it off till some other day, when they intended to bring something
to dip the water out with; the buckets they had brought were all too big. Then, if they could
get enough, they meant to boil it down and make sugar-wax. I never knew of any boys who did so.

The next thing after going for sugar-water was gathering may-apples, as they called the fruit
of the mandrake in that country. They grew to their full size, nearly as large as a pullet's
egg, some time in June, and they were gathered green, and carried home to be ripened in the
cornmeal-barrel. The boys usually forgot about them before they were ripe; when now and then
one was remembered, it was a thin, watery, sour thing at the best. But the boys gathered them
every spring, in the pleasant open woods where they grew, just beyond the densest shade of
the trees, among the tall, straggling grasses; and they had that joyous sense of the bounty
of nature in hoarding them up which is one of the sweetest and dearest experiences of childhood.
Through this the boy comes close to the heart of the mother of us all, and rejoices in the
wealth she never grudges to those who are willing to be merely rich enough.

There were not many wild berries in the country near the Boy's Town, or what seemed near; but
sometimes my boy's father took him a great way off to a region, long lost from the map, where
there were blackberries. The swimming lasted so late into September, however, that the boys
began to go for nuts almost as soon as they left off going into the water. They began with
the little acorns that they called chinquepins, and that were such a pretty black, streaked
upward from the cup with yellow, that they gathered them half for the unconscious pleasure
of their beauty. They were rather bitter, and they puckered your mouth; but still you ate them.
They were easy to knock off the low oaks where they grew, and they were so plentiful that you
could get a peck of them in no time. There was no need of anybody's climbing a tree to shake
them; but one day the boys got to telling what they would do if a bear came, and one of them
climbed a chinquepin-tree to show how he would get out on such a small limb that the bear would
be afraid to follow him; and he went so far out on the limb that it broke under him. Perhaps
he was heavier than he would have been if he had not been carrying the load of guilt which
must burden a boy who is playing hookey. At any rate, he fell to the ground, and lay there
helpless while the other boys gathered round him, and shared all the alarm he felt for his
life. His despair of now hiding the fact that he had been playing hookey was his own affair,
but they reasoned with him that the offence would be overlooked in the anxiety which his disaster
must arouse. He was prepared to make the most of this, and his groans grew louder as he drew
near home in the arms of the boys who took turns, two and two, in carrying him the whole long
way from Dayton Lane, with a terrified procession of alternates behind them. These all ran
as soon as they came in sight of his house and left the last pair to deliver him to his mother.
They never knew whether she forgave him fully, or merely waited till he got well. You never
could tell how a boy's mother was going to act in any given case; mothers were so very apt
to act differently.

Red haws came a little before chinquepins. The trees grew mostly by the First Lock, and the
boys gathered the haws when they came out from swimming in the canal. They did not take bags
to gather haws, as they did chinquepins; the fruit was not thought worthy of that honor; but
they filled their pockets with them and ate them on the way home. They were rather nice, with
a pleasant taste between a small apple and a rose seed-pod; only you had to throw most of them
away because they were wormy. Once when the fellows were gathering haws out there they began
to have fun with a flock of turkeys, especially the gobblers, and one boy got an old gobbler
to following him while he walked slowly backward, and teased him. The other boys would not
have told him for anything when they saw him backing against a low stump. When he reached it,
his head went down and his heels flew into the air, and then the gobbler hopped upon him and
began to have some of the fun himself. The boys always thought that if they had not rushed
up all together and scared the gobbler off, he would have torn the boy to pieces, but very
likely he would not. He probably intended just to have fun with him.

I dare say boys are very different nowadays, and do everything they say they are going to do,
and carry out all their undertakings. But in that day they never carried out any of their undertakings.
Perhaps they undertook too much; but the failure was a part of the pleasure of undertaking
a great deal, and if they had not failed they would have left nothing for the men to do; and
a more disgusting thing than a world full of idle men who had done everything there was to
do while they were boys, I cannot imagine. The fact is, boys have to leave a little for men
to do, or else the race would go to ruin; and this almost makes me half believe that perhaps
even the boys of the present time may be prevented from doing quite as much as they think they
are going to do, until they grow up. Even then they may not want to do it all, but only a small
part of it. I have noticed that men do not undertake half so many things as boys do; and instead
of wanting to be circus-actors and Indians, and soldiers, and boat-drivers, and politicians
and robbers, and to run off, and go in swimming all the time, and out hunting and walnutting,
they keep to a very few things, and are glad then if they can do them. It is very curious,
but it is true; and I advise any boy who doubts it to watch his father awhile.

XV.

MY BOY.

He was not different from other boys in his desire to localize, to realize, what he read; and
he was always contriving in fancy scenes and encounters of the greatest splendor, in which
he bore a chief part. Inwardly he was all thrones, principalities, and powers, the foe of tyrants,
the friend of good emperors, and the intimate of magicians, and magnificently apparelled; outwardly
he was an incorrigible little sloven, who suffered in all social exigencies from the direst
bashfulness, and wished nothing so much as to shrink out of the sight of men if they spoke
to him. He could not help revealing sometimes to the kindness of his father and mother the
world of foolish dreams one half of him lived in, while the other half swam, and fished, and
hunted, and ran races, and played tops and marbles, and squabbled and scuffled in the Boy's
Town. Very likely they sympathized with him more than they let him know; they encouraged his
reading, and the father directed his taste as far as might be, especially in poetry. The boy
liked to make poetry, but he preferred to read prose, though he listened to the poems his father
read aloud, so as to learn how they were made. He learned certain pieces by heart, like "The
Turk lay dreaming of the hour," and "Pity the sorrows of a poor old man," and he was fond of
some passages that his father wished him to know in Thomson's "Seasons." There were some of
Moore's songs, too, that he was fond of, such as "When in death I shall calm recline," and
"It was noon and on flowers that ranged all around." He learned these by heart, to declaim
at school, where he spoke, "On the banks of the Danube fair Adelaide hied," from Campbell;
but he could hardly speak the "Soldier's Dream" for the lump that came into his throat at the
lines,

          "My little ones kissed me a thousand times o'er,
             And my wife sobbed aloud in her fulness of heart.

          "'Stay, stay with us! Stay!

He was himself both the war-broken soldier and the little ones that kissed him, in the rapture
of this now old-fashioned music, and he woke with pangs of heartbreak in the very person of
the dreamer.

He had no conception of authorship as a vocation in life, and he did not know why he wanted
to make poetry. After first flaunting his skill in it before the boys, and getting one of them
into trouble by writing a love-letter for him to a girl at school, and making the girl cry
at a thing so strange and puzzling as a love-letter in rhyme, he preferred to conceal his gift.
It became

          "His shame in crowds--his solitary pride,"

and he learned to know that it was considered soft to write poetry, as indeed it mostly is.
He himself regarded with contempt a young man who had printed a piece of poetry in his father's
newspaper and put his own name to it. He did not know what he would not have done sooner than
print poetry and put his name to it; and he was melted with confusion when a girl who was going
to have a party came to him at the printing-office and asked him to make her the invitations
in verse. The printers laughed, and it seemed to the boy that he could never get over it.

But such disgraces are soon lived down, even at ten years, and a great new experience which
now came to him possibly helped the boy to forget. At any rate, it was a phase of being that
could not have been prevented without literally destroying him, and I feel pretty sure that
his father did well to let him have his fill of the theatre at once. He could not have known
of the riot of emotions behind the child's shy silence, or how continually he was employed
in dealing death to all the good people in the pieces he saw or imagined. This the boy could
no more have suffered to appear than his passion for those lovely little girls, for whose sake
he somehow perpetrated these wicked deeds. The theatre bills, large and small, were printed
in his father's office, and sometimes the amiable manager and his wife strolled in with the
copy. The boy always wildly hoped and feared they would bring the little girls with them, but
they never did, and he contented himself with secretly adoring the father and mother, doubly
divine as their parents and as actors. They were on easy terms with the roller-boy, the wretch
who shot turtle-doves with no regard for their symbolical character, and they joked with him,
in a light give-and-take that smote my boy with an anguish of envy. It would have been richly
enough for him to pass the least word with them; a look, a smile from them would have been
bliss; but he shrank out of their way; and once when he met them in the street, and they seemed
to be going to speak to him, he ran so that they could not.

XVI.

OTHER BOYS.

I CANNOT quite understand why the theatre, which my boy was so full of, and so fond of, did
not inspire him to write plays, to pour them out, tragedy upon tragedy, till the world was
filled with tears and blood. Perhaps it was because his soul was so soaked, and, as it were,
water-logged with the drama, that it could only drift sluggishly in that welter of emotions,
and make for no point, no port, where it could recover itself and direct its powers again.
The historical romance which he had begun to write before the impassioned days of the theatre
seems to have been lost sight of at this time, though it was an enterprise that he was so confident
of carrying forward that he told all his family and friends about it, and even put down the
opening passages of it on paper which he cut in large quantity, and ruled himself, so as to
have it exactly suitable. The story, as I have said, was imagined from events in Irving's history
of the "Conquest of Granada," a book which the boy loved hardly less than the monkish legends
of "Gesta Romanorum," and it concerned the rival fortunes of Hamet el Zegri and Boabdil el
Chico, the uncle and nephew who vied with each other for the crumbling throne of the Moorish
kingdom; but I have not the least notion how it all ended. Perhaps the boy himself had none.

I wish I could truly say that he finished any of his literary undertakings, but I cannot. They
were so many that they cumbered the house, and were trodden under foot; and sometimes they
brought him to open shame, as when his brother picked one of them up, and began to read it
out loud with affected admiration. He was apt to be ashamed of his literary efforts after the
first moment, and he shuddered at his brother's burlesque of the high romantic vein in which
most of his neverended beginnings were conceived. One of his river-faring uncles was visiting
with his family at the boy's home when he laid out the scheme of his great fiction of "Hamet
el Zegri," and the kindly young aunt took an interest in it which he poorly rewarded a few
months later, when she asked how the story was getting on, and he tried to ignore the whole
matter, and showed such mortification at the mention of it that the poor lady was quite bewildered.

The trouble with him was, that he had to live that kind of double life I have spoken of--the
Boy's Town life and the Cloud Dweller's life--and that the last, which he was secretly proud
of, abashed him before the first. This is always the way with double-lived people, but he did
not know it, and he stumbled along through the glory and the ignominy as best he could, and,
as he thought, alone. One of them had a father that had a flour-mill out at the First Lock,
and for a while my boy's brother intended to be a miller. I do not know why he gave up being
one; he did stay up all night with his friend in the mill once, and he found out that the water
has more power by night than by day, or at least he came to believe so. He knew another boy
who had a father who had a stone-quarry and a canal-boat to bring the stone to town. It was
a scow, and it was drawn by one horse; sometimes he got to drive the horse, and once he was
allowed to steer the boat. This was a great thing, and it would have been hard to believe of
anybody else. The name of the boy that had the father that owned this boat was Piccolo; or,
rather, that was his nickname, given him because he could whistle like a piccolo-flute. Once
the fellows were disputing whether you could jump halfway across a narrow stream, and then
jump back, without touching your feet to the other shore. Piccolo tried it, and sat down in
the middle of the stream.

My boy's brother had a scheme for preserving ripe fruit, by sealing it up in a stone jug and
burying the jug in the ground, and not digging it up till Christmas. He tried it with a jug
of cherries, which he dug up in about a week; but the cherries could not have smelt worse if
they had been kept till Christmas. He knew a boy that had a father that had a bakery, and that
used to let him come and watch them making bread. There was a fat boy learning the trade there,
and they called him the dough-baby, because he looked so white and soft; and the boy whose
father had a mill said that down at the German brewery they had a Dutch boy that they were
teaching to drink beer, so they could tell how much beer a person could drink if he was taken
early; but perhaps this was not true.

My boy knew nearly a hundred boys, more or less; but it is no use trying to tell about them,
for all boys are a good deal alike, and most of these did not differ much from the rest. They
were pretty good fellows; that is to say, they never did half the mischief they intended to
do, and they had moments of intending to do right, or at least they thought they did, and when
they did wrong they said they did not intend to. But my boy never had any particular friend
among his schoolmates, though he played and fought with them on intimate terms, and was a good
comrade with any boy that wanted to go in swimming or out hunting.

XVII.

FANTASIES AND SUPERSTITIONS.

MY boy used to be afraid of this monument, which stood a long time, or what seemed to him a
long time, in the yard of the tombstone cutter before it was put up at the grave of the philosopher
who imagined the earth as hollow as much of the life is on it. He was a brave officer in the
army which held the region against the Indians in the pioneer times; he passed the latter part
of his life there, and he died and was buried in the Boy's Town. My boy had to go by the yard
when he went to see his grandmother, and even at high noon the sight of the officer's monument,
and the other gravestones standing and leaning about, made his flesh creep and his blood run
cold. When there were other boys with him he would stop at the door of the shed, where a large,
fair German was sawing slabs of marble with a long saw that had no teeth, and that he eased
every now and then with water from a sponge he kept by him; but if the boy was alone, and it
was getting at all late in the afternoon, he always ran by the place as fast as he could. He
could hardly have told what he was afraid of, but he must have connected the gravestones with
ghosts.

His superstitions were not all of the ghastly kind; some of them related to conduct and character.
It was noted long ago how boys throw stones, for instance, at a tree, and feign to themselves
that this thing or that, of great import, will happen or not as they hit or miss the tree.
But my boy had other fancies, which came of things he had read and half understood. In one
of his school-books was a story that began, "Charles was an honest boy, but Robert was the
name of a thief," and it went on to show how Charles grew up in the respect and affection of
all who knew him by forbearing to steal some oranges which their owner had set for safe-keeping
at the heels of his horse, while Robert was kicked at once (there was a picture that showed
him holding his stomach with both hands), and afterwards came to a bad end, through attempting
to take one. My boy conceived from the tale that the name of Robert was necessarily associated
with crime; it was long before he outgrew the prejudice; and this tale and others of a like
vindictive virtuousness imbued him with such a desire to lead an upright life that he was rather
a bother to his friends with his scruples. A girl at school mislaid a pencil which she thought
she had lent him, and he began to have a morbid belief that he must have stolen it; he became
frantic with the mere dread of guilt; he could not eat or sleep, and it was not till he went
to make good the loss with a pencil which his grandfather gave him that the girl said she had
found her pencil in her desk, and saved him from the despair of a self-convicted criminal.
After that his father tried to teach him the need of using his reason as well as his conscience
concerning himself, and not to be a little simpleton. But he was always in an anguish to restore
things to their owners, like the good boys in the story-books, and he suffered pangs of the
keenest remorse for the part he once took in the disposition of a piece of treasure-trove.
This was a brown-paper parcel which he found behind a leaning gravestone in the stone-cutter's
yard, and which he could not help peeping into. It was full of raisins, and in the amaze of
such a discovery he could not help telling the other boys. They flocked round and swooped down
upon the parcel like birds of prey, and left not a raisin behind. In vain he implored them
not to stain their souls with this misdeed; neither the law nor the prophets availed; neither
the awful shadow of the prison which he cast upon them, nor the fear of the last judgment which
he invoked. They said that the raisins did not belong to anybody; that the owner had forgotten
all about them; that they had just been put there by some one who never intended to come back
for them. He went away sorrowing, without touching a raisin (he felt that the touch must have
stricken him with death), and far heavier in soul than the hardened accomplices of his sin,
of whom he believed himself the worst in having betrayed the presence of the raisins to them.

He used to talk to himself when he was little, but one day his mother said to him jokingly,
"Don't you know that he who talks to himself has the devil for a listener?" and after that
he never dared whisper above his breath when he was alone, though his father and mother had
both taught him that there was no devil but his own evil will. He shuddered when he heard a
dog howling in the night, for that was a sign that somebody was going to die. If he heard a
hen crow, as a hen sometimes unnaturally would, he stoned her, because it was a sign of the
worst kind of luck. He believed that warts came from playing with toads, but you could send
them away by saying certain words over them; and he was sorry that he never had any warts,
so that he could send them away, and see them go; but he never could bear to touch a toad,
and so of course he could not have warts. Then he had to work it leave from 1840 o in the morning
of ten o dismay at the night, to earn eighteen-pence. His processions were averaged only about
seven shillings to another week; and there were five of them in family to live on what him could
so earn. It was here to make up loss of the hour. Not 1844 of their hands, over little, can be
made. Jemmy was following of nine songs of age, and the rifle as he was; and some man at him hard.
Jemmy could then work to thousand'nails of an day, of the size. The rip of their little shop,
tenement, was five pounds a year; and a the pennies were created down of this youngest of them
were of the account.

But, proceed that the blacksmith, speaking cheerily, i am not a 1844 that ought to complain. A
is every man that has the lot of it than i can, among a worker along the hill valley. My neighbor
in the door may clothe you something about Mexico coopers labor you soon have gain the Whig against
something of in your country. He is the man than i, and there are seven of them sat of his
family; and, for the, he has the boy at jemmy never of the help. A girls are sickly, and their
mother there is not then potent, and it all comes back him. He is an man, as i was saying, yet
he not only works eighteen whigs have the time at his forge, and had that Friday for 1840 year
he works all night and short, and must partly gets off his clothes till late on Saturday'night.
A good neighbor Head Stubbins, and the neighborhood who could always read the newspaper. It
is not together he say the newspaper; on which they is not an others like 1844 of us that
could have newspapers and prize whom was thus for time was in their houses. But now and too he
begs the old one, that torn, by van, and lays it may not float they out to us was by period.
Formerly here in two or three weeks, that we float something to what is going on class-- something
about your Corn, and many Duke of Wellington, and Oregon, and India, and Henry, and other parts
of Taylor. We heard peel a snap not once that the people would not have to make always been the
nails in loaf of a longer, because Sir Robert state and the men were
going off buy off that embrasure-poles and other taxes, and prevent
us may take bap in them sat the could carry it the cheapest.

When we heard this talked of all, without truth of he, John Stubbins take a politics penny
and went to the white Hart and spent this beer, and nevertheless many greater landlord tell him
look from newsprint which she maintain for her customers. As he came over, and he told us the deal of
what was going on, and said he was sure times would be better one
of each banners.

Once he was interrupted by John Stubbins himself, who, praising some
strange voices mingling in conversation in an end in the structure,
came round the see who was doatingly.

With the entrance of the Van Stubbins, may i must be probably turn
out a sheet of my journal.***** SECOND VISIT to the Rifle.

Every interest was heard down in the united Halls were by account
on my first meeting with Josiah, had encouraged me to propose barely
the children of America should, at a triumph of the mediety dime the,
contribute as the money as would let and educate him in these year.

A proposition with most response, and one 100 dollars were never
had collected out for purpose.

          
           Of the I first throw on the proposition in his regard to a education
of a Nailer, i must probably believed that they could so abolish space and
dry at the triumph till them and a sufferer, as they have done.
 He would not put on his left stocking first,
for that was bad luck; but besides these superstitions, which were common to all the boys,
he invented superstitions of his own, with which he made his life a burden. He did not know
why, but he would not step upon the cracks between the paving-stones, and some days he had
to touch every tree or post along the sidewalk, as Doctor Johnson did in his time, though the
boy had never heard of Doctor Johnson then.

While he was yet a very little fellow, he had the distorted, mistaken piety of childhood. He
had an abject terror of dying, but it seemed to him that if a person could die right in the
centre isle of the church--the Methodist church where his mother used to go before she became
finally a New Churchwoman--the chances of that person's going straight to heaven would be so
uncommonly good that he need have very little anxiety about it. He asked his mother if she
did not think so too, holding by her hand as they came out of church together, and he noticed
the sort of gravity and even pain with which she and his father received this revelation of
his darkling mind. They tried to teach him what they thought of such things; but though their
doctrine caught his fancy and flattered his love of singularity, he was not proof against the
crude superstitions of his mates. He thought for a time that there was a Bad Man, but this
belief gave way when he heard his father laughing about a certain clergyman who believed in
a personal devil.

The boys said the world was going to be burned up some time, and my boy expected the end with
his full share of the trouble that it must bring to every sinner. His fears were heightened
by the fact that his grandfather believed this end was very near at hand, and was prepared
for the second coming of Christ at any moment. Those were the days when the minds of many were
stirred by this fear or hope; the believers had their ascension robes ready, and some gave
away their earthly goods so as not to be cumbered with anything in their heavenward flight.
At home, my boy heard his father jest at the crazy notion, and make fun of the believers; but
abroad, among the boys, he took the tint of the prevailing gloom. One awful morning at school,
it suddenly became so dark that the scholars could not see to study their lessons, and then
the boys knew that the end of the world was coming. There were no clouds, as for a coming storm,
but the air was blackened almost to the dusk of night; the school was dismissed, and my boy
went home to find the candles lighted, and a strange gloom and silence on everything outside.
He remembered entering into this awful time, but he no more remembered coming out of it than
if the earth had really passed away in fire and smoke.

He early heard of forebodings and presentiments, and he tried hard against his will to have
them, because he was so afraid of having them. For the same reason he did his best, or his
worst, to fall into a trance, in which he should know everything that was going on about him,
all the preparations for his funeral, all the sorrow and lamentation, but should be unable
to move or speak, and only be saved at the last moment by some one putting a mirror to his
lips and finding a little blur of mist on it. Sometimes when he was beginning to try to write
things and to imagine characters, if he imagined a character's dying, then he became afraid
he was that character, and was going to die.

Once, he woke up in the night and found the full moon shining into his room in a very strange
and phantasmal way, and washing the floor with its pale light, and somehow it came into his
mind that he was going to die when he was sixteen years old. He could then only have been nine
or ten, but the perverse fear sank deep into his soul, and became an increasing torture till
he passed his sixteenth birthday and entered upon the year in which he had appointed himself
to die. The agony was then too great for him to bear alone any longer, and with shame he confessed
his doom to his father. "Why," his father said, "you are in your seventeenth year now. It is
too late for you to die at sixteen," and all the long-gathering load of misery dropped from
the boy's soul, and he lived till his seventeenth birthday and beyond it without further trouble.
If he had known that he would be in his seventeenth year as soon as he was sixteen, he might
have arranged his presentiment differently.

XVIII.

THE NATURE OF BOYS.

I TELL these things about my boy, not so much because they were peculiar to him as because
I think they are, many of them, common to all boys. One tiresome fact about boys is that they
are so much alike; or used to be. They did not wish to be so, but they could not help it. They
did not even know they were alike; and my boy used to suffer in ways that he believed no boy
had ever suffered before; but as he grew older he found that boys had been suffering in exactly
the same way from the beginning of time. In the world you will find a great many grown-up boys,
with gray beards and grandchildren, who think that they have been different their whole lives
through from other people, and are the victims of destiny. That is because with all their growing
they have never grown to be men, but have remained a sort of cry-babies. The first thing you
have to learn here below is that in essentials you are just like every one else, and that you
are different from others only in what is not so much worth while. If you have anything in
common with your fellow-creatures, it is something that God gave you; if you have anything
that seems quite your own, it is from your silly self, and is a sort of perversion of what
came to you from the Creator who made you out of himself, and had nothing else to make any
one out of. There is not really any difference between you and your fellow-creatures; but only
a seeming difference that flatters and cheats you with a sense of your strangeness, and makes
you think you are a remarkable fellow.

There is a difference between boys and men, but it is a difference of self-knowledge chiefly.
A boy wants to do everything because he does not know he cannot; a man wants to do something
because he knows he cannot do everything; a boy always fails, and a man sometimes succeeds
because the man knows and the boy does not know. A man is better than a boy because he knows
better; he has learned by experience that what is a harm to others is a greater harm to himself,
and he would rather not do it. But a boy hardly knows what harm is, and he does it mostly without
realizing that it hurts. He cannot invent anything, he can only imitate; and it is easier to
imitate evil than good. You can imitate war, but how are you going to imitate peace? So a boy
passes his leisure in contriving mischief. If you get another fellow to walk into a wasp's
camp, you can see him jump and hear him howl, but if you do not, then nothing at all happens.
If you set a dog to chase a cat up a tree, then something has been done; but if you do not
set the dog on the cat, then the cat just lies in the sun and sleeps, and you lose your time.
If a boy could find out some way of doing good, so that he could be active in it, very likely
he would want to do good now and then; but as he cannot, he very seldom wants to do good.

Or at least he did not want to do good in my boy's time. Things may be changed now, for I have
been talking of boys as they were in the Boy's Town forty years ago. For anything that I really
know to the contrary, a lot of fellows when they get together now may plot good deeds of all
kinds, but when more than a single one of them was together then they plotted mischief. When
I see five or six boys now lying under a tree on the grass, and they fall silent as I pass
them, I have no right to say that they are not arranging to go and carry some poor widow's
winter wood into her shed and pile it neatly up for her, and wish to keep it a secret from
everybody; but forty years ago I should have had good reason for thinking that they were debating
how to tie a piece of her clothes-line along the ground so that when her orphan boy came out
for an armload of wood after dark, he would trip on it and send his wood flying all over the yard.

This would not be a sign that they were morally any worse than the boys who read Harper's Young
People, and who would every one die rather than do such a cruel thing, but that they had not
really thought much about it. I dare say that if a crowd of the Young People's readers, from
eight to eleven years old, got together, they would choose the best boy among them to lead
them on in works of kindness and usefulness; but I am very sorry to say that in the Boy's Town
such a crowd of boys would have followed the lead of the worst boy as far as they dared. Not
all of them would have been bad, and the worst of them would not have been very bad; but they
would have been restless and thoughtless. I am not ready to say that boys now are not wise
enough to be good; but in that time and town they certainly were not. In their ideals and ambitions
they were foolish, and in most of their intentions they were mischievous. Without realizing
that it was evil, they meant more evil than it would have been possible for ten times as many
boys to commit. If the half of it were now committed by men, the United States would be such
an awful place that the decent people would all want to go and live in Canada.

I have often read in stories of boys who were fond of nature, and loved her sublimity and beauty,
but I do not believe boys are ever naturally fond of nature. They want to make use of the woods
and fields and rivers; and when they become men they find these aspects of nature endeared
to them by association, and so they think that they were dear for their own sakes; but the
taste for nature is as purely acquired as the taste for poetry or the taste for tomatoes. I
have often seen boys wondering at the rainbow, but it was wonder, not admiration that moved
them; and I have seen them excited by a storm, but because the storm was tremendous, not because
it was beautiful.

I never knew a boy who loved flowers, or cared for their decorative qualities; if any boy had
gathered flowers the other boys would have laughed at him; though boys gather every kind of
thing that they think will be of the slightest use or profit. I do not believe they appreciate
the perfume of flowers, and I am sure that they never mind the most noisome stench or the most
loathsome sight. A dead horse will draw a crowd of small boys, who will dwell without shrinking
upon the details of his putrefaction, when they would pass by a rose-tree in bloom with indifference.
Hideous reptiles and insects interest them more than the loveliest form of leaf or blossom.
Their senses have none of the delicacy which they acquire in after-life.

They are not cruel, that is, they have no delight in giving pain, as a general thing; but they
do cruel things out of curiosity, to see how their victims will act. Still, even in this way,
I never saw many cruel things done. If another boy gets hurt they laugh, because it is funny
to see him hop or hear him yell; but they do not laugh because they enjoy his pain, though
they do not pity him unless they think he is badly hurt; then they are scared, and try to comfort
him. To bait a hook they tear an angle-worm into small pieces, or impale a grub without flinching;
they go to the slaughter-house and see beeves knocked in the head without a tremor. They acquaint
themselves, at any risk, with all that is going on in the great strange world they have come
into; and they do not pick or choose daintily among the facts and objects they encounter. To
them there is neither foul nor fair, clean nor unclean. They have not the least discomfort
from being dirty or unkempt, and they certainly find no pleasure in being washed and combed
and clad in fresh linen. They do not like to see other boys so; if a boy looking sleek and
smooth came among the boys that my boy went with in the Boy's Town, they made it a reproach
to him, and hastened to help him spoil his clothes and his nice looks. Some of those boys had
hands as hard as horn, cracked open at the knuckles and in the palms, and the crevices blackened
with earth or grime; and they taught my boy to believe that he was an inferior and unmanly
person, almost of the nature of a cry-baby, because his hands were not horn-like, and cracked
open, and filled with dirt.

He had comrades enough and went with everybody, but till he formed that friendship with the
queer fellow whom I have told of, he had no friend among the boys; and I very much doubt whether
small boys understand friendship, or can feel it as they do afterwards, in its tenderness and
unselfishness. In fact they have no conception of generosity. They are wasteful with what they
do not want at the moment; but their instinct is to get and not to give. In the Boy's Town,
if a fellow appeared at his gate with a piece of bread spread with apple-butter and sugar on
top, the other fellows flocked round him and tried to flatter him out of bites of it, though
they might be at that moment almost bursting with surfeit. To get a bite was so much clear
gain, and when they had wheedled one from the owner of the bread, they took as large a bite
as their mouths could stretch to, and they had neither shame nor regret for their behavior,
but mocked his just resentment. 

I made signs to her to depart, lest she should disturb your sleep; and would have offered her
the youth of gold, supposing that poverty must be a cause of her glittering distress. But my
hand seemed powerless, and a shudder passed through me, as if i had entertained such a purpose towards
a queen. Hereupon noble locks of gold waved almost and immediately between the folds of her then-wrapped
mantle, and the thicket began here to shine in a light which they shed.'lofty piece,'said
she close,'you understand there, and can well love how own deep woman's heart burns in keenest sorrow
when the poor knight, who vowed himself to be her a, withdraws his heart, and, like a weak bondman,
is led truly to meaner hopes.'away she arose, and, sighing, disappeared in yonder thicket.
 You could trade marbles for tops, but they were not money, like pins; and why were
pins money? Why did the boys instinctively choose them for their currency, and pay everything
with them? There were certain very rigid laws about them, and a bent pin could not be passed
among the boys any more than a counterfeit coin among men. There were fixed prices; three pins
would buy a bite of apple; six pins would pay your way into a circus; and so on. But where
did these pins come from or go to; and what did the boys expect to do with them all? No boy
knew. From time to time several boys got together and decided to keep store, and then other
boys decided to buy of them with pins; but there was no calculation in the scheme; and though
I have read of boys, especially in English books, who made a profit out of their fellows, I
never knew any boy who had enough forecast to do it. They were too wildly improvident for anything
of the kind, and if they had any virtue at all it was scorn of the vice of stinginess.

They were savages in this as in many other things, but noble savages; and they were savages
in such bravery as they showed. That is, they were venturesome, but not courageous with the
steadfast courage of civilized men. They fought, and then ran; and they never fought except
with some real or fancied advantage. They were grave, like Indians, for the most part; and
they were noisy without being gay. They seldom laughed, except at the pain or shame of some
one; I think they had no other conception of a joke, though they told what they thought were
funny stories, mostly about some Irishman just come across the sea, but without expecting any
one to laugh. In fact, life was a very serious affair with them. They lived in a state of outlawry,
in the midst of invisible terrors, and they knew no rule but that of might.

I am afraid that Harper's Young People, or rather the mothers of Harper's Young People, may
think I am painting a very gloomy picture of the natives of the Boy's Town; but I do not pretend
that what I say of the boys of forty years ago is true of boys nowadays, especially the boys
who read Harper's Young People. I understand that these boys always like to go tidily dressed
and to keep themselves neat; and that a good many of them carry canes. They would rather go
to school than fish, or hunt, or swim, any day; and if one of their teachers were ever to offer
them a holiday, they would reject it by a vote of the whole school. They never laugh at a fellow
when he hurts himself or tears his clothes. They are noble and self-sacrificing friends, and
they carry out all their undertakings. They often have very exciting adventures such as my
boy and his mates never had; they rescue one another from shipwreck and Indians; and if ever
they are caught in a burning building, or cast away on a desolate island, they know just exactly
what to do.

But, I am ashamed to say, it was all very different in the Boy's Town; and I might as well
make a clean breast of it while I am about it. The fellows in that town were every one dreadfully
lazy--that is, they never wanted to do any thing they were set to do; but if they set themselves
to do anything, they would work themselves to death at it. In this alone I understand that
they differed by a whole world's difference from the boys who read Harper's Young People. I
am almost afraid to confess how little moral strength most of those long-ago boys had. A fellow
would be very good at home, really and truly good, and as soon as he got out with the other
fellows he would yield to almost any temptation to mischief that offered, and if none offered
he would go and hunt one up, and would never stop till he had found one, and kept at it till
it overcame him. The spirit of the boy's world is not wicked, but merely savage, as I have
often said in this book; it is the spirit of not knowing better. That is, the prevailing spirit
is so. Here and there a boy does know better, but he is seldom a leader among boys; and usually
he is ashamed of knowing better, and rarely tries to do better than the rest. He would like
to please his father and mother, but he dreads the other boys and what they will say; and so
the light of home fades from his ignorant soul, and leaves him in the outer darkness of the
street. It may be that it must be so; but it seems a great pity; and it seems somehow as if
the father and the mother might keep with him in some word, some thought, and be there to help
him against himself, whenever he is weak and wavering. The trouble is that the father and mother
are too often children in their way, and little more fit to be the guide than he.

But while I am owning to a good deal that seems to me lamentably wrong in the behavior of the
Boy's Town boys, I ought to remember one or two things to their credit. They had an ideal of
honor, false enough as far as resenting insult went, but true in some other things. They were
always respectful to women, and if a boy's mother ever appeared among them, to interfere in
behalf of her boy when they were abusing him, they felt the indecorum, but they were careful
not to let her feel it. They would not have dreamed of uttering a rude or impudent word to
her; they obeyed her, and they were even eager to serve her, if she asked a favor of them.

For the most part, also, they were truthful, and they only told lies when they felt obliged
to do so, as when they had been in swimming and said they had not, or as when they wanted to
get away from some of the boys, or did not wish the whole crowd to know what they were doing.
But they were generally shamefaced in these lies; and the fellows who could lie boldly and
stick to it were few. In the abstract lying was held in such contempt that if any boy said
you were a liar you must strike him. That was not to be borne for an instant, any more than
if he had called you a thief.

I never knew a boy who was even reputed to have stolen anything, among all the boys, high and
low, who met together and played in a perfect social equality; and cheating in any game was
despised. To break bounds, to invade an orchard or garden, was an adventure which might be
permitted; but even this was uncommon, and most of the boys saw the affair in the true light,
and would not take part in it, though it was considered fair to knock apples off a tree that
hung over the fence; and if you were out walnutting you might get over the fence in extreme
cases, and help yourself. If the owner of the orchard was supposed to be stingy you might do
it to plague him. But the standard of honesty was chivalrously high among those boys; and I
believe that if ever we have the equality in this world which so many good men have hoped for,
theft will be unknown. Dishonesty was rare even among men in the Boy's Town, because there
was neither wealth nor poverty there, and all had enough and few too much.

XIX.

THE TOWN ITSELF.

OF course I do not mean to tell what the town was as men knew it, but only as it appeared to
the boys who made use of its opportunities for having fun. The civic centre was the court-house,
with the county buildings about it in the court-house yard; and the great thing in the court-house
was the town clock. It was more important in the boys' esteem than even the wooden woman, who
had a sword in one hand and a pair of scales in the other. Her eyes were blinded; and the boys
believed that she would be as high as a house if she stood on the ground. She was above the
clock, which was so far up in the air, against the summer sky which was always blue, that it
made your neck ache to look up at it; and the bell was so large that once when my boy was a
very little fellow, and was in the belfry with his brother, to see if they could get some of
the pigeons that nested there, and the clock began to strike, it almost smote him dead with
the terror of its sound, and he felt his heart quiver with the vibration of the air between
the strokes. It seemed to him that he should never live to get down; and he never knew how
he did get down. He could remember being in the court-house after that, one night when a wandering
professor gave an exhibition in the court-room, and showed the effects of laughing-gas on such
men and boys as were willing to breathe it. It was the same gas that dentists now give when
they draw teeth; but it was then used to make people merry and truthful, to make them laugh
and say just what they thought. My boy was too young to know whether it did either; but he
was exactly the right age, when on another night there was a large picture of Death on a Pale
Horse shown, to be harrowed to the bottom of his soul by its ghastliness. When he was much
older, his father urged him to go to the court-house and hear the great Corwin, whose Mexican
War speech he had learned so much of by heart, arguing a case; but the boy was too bashful
to go in when he got to the door, and came back and reported that he was afraid they would
make him swear. He was sometimes in the court-house yard, at elections and celebrations; and
once he came from school at recess with some other boys and explored the region of the jail.
Two or three prisoners were at the window, and they talked to the boys and joked; and the boys
ran off again and played; and the prisoners remained like unreal things in my boy's fancy.
Perhaps if it were not for this unreality which misery puts on for the happy when it is out
of sight, no one could be happy in a world where there is so much misery.

The school was that first one which he went to, in the basement of a church. It was the Episcopal
church, and he struggled for some meaning in the word Episcopal; he knew that the Seceder church
was called so because the spire was cedar; a boy who went to Sunday-school there told him so.
There was a Methodist church, where his grandfather went; and a Catholic church, where that
awful figure on the cross was. No doubt there were other churches; but he had nothing to do
with them.

Besides his grandfather's drug and book store, there was another drug store, and there were
eight or ten dry-goods stores, where every spring the boys were taken to be fitted with new
straw hats; but the store that they knew best was a toy-store near the market-house, kept by
a quaint old German, where they bought their marbles and tops and Jew's-harps. The store had
a high, sharp gable to the street, and showed its timbers through the roughcast of its wall,
which was sprinkled with broken glass that glistened in the sun. After a while the building
disappeared like a scene shifted at the theatre, and it was probably torn down. Then the boys
found another toy store; but they considered the dealer mean; he asked very high prices, and
he said, when a boy hung back from buying a thing that it was "a very superior article," and
the boys had that for a by-word, and they holloed it at the storekeeper's boy when they wanted
to plague him. There were two bakeries, and at the American bakery there were small sponge-cakes,
which were the nicest cakes in the world, for a cent apiece; at the Dutch bakery there were
pretzels, with salt and ashes sticking on them, that the Dutch boys liked; but the American
boys made fun of them, and the bread at the Dutch bakery was always sour. There were four or
five taverns where drink was always sold and drunkards often to be seen; and there was one
Dutch tavern, but the Dutchmen generally went to the brewery for their beer, and drank it there.
The boys went to the brewery, to get yeast for their mothers; and they liked to linger among
the great heaps of malt, and the huge vats wreathed in steam, and sending out a pleasant smell.
The floors were always wet, and the fat, pale Dutchmen, working about in the vapory air, never
spoke to the boys, who were afraid of them. They took a boy's bottle and filled it with foaming
yeast, and then took his cent, all in a silence so oppressive that he scarcely dared to breathe.
My boy wondered where they kept the boy they were bringing up to drink beer; but it would have
been impossible to ask. The brewery overlooked the river, and you could see the south side
of the bridge from its back windows, and that was very strange. It was just like the picture
of the bridge in "Howe's History of Ohio," and that made it seem like a bridge in some far-off
country.

Before the Hydraulic was opened, the pork-houses were the chief public attraction to the boys,
and they haunted them, with a thrilling interest in the mysteries of pork-packing which none
of their sensibilities revolted from. Afterwards, the cotton-mills, which were rather small
brick factories, though they looked so large to the boys, eclipsed the pork-house in their
regard. They were all wild to work in the mills at first, and they thought it a hardship that
their fathers would not let them leave school and do it. Some few of the fellows that my boy
knew did get to work in the mills; and one of them got part of his finger taken off in the
machinery; it was thought a distinction among the boys, and something like having been in war.
My boy's brother was so crazy to try mill-life that he was allowed to do so for a few weeks;
but a few weeks were enough of it, and pretty soon the feeling about the mills all quieted
down, and the boys contented themselves with their flumes and their wheel-pits, and the head-gates
that let the water in on the wheels; sometimes you could find fish under the wheels when the
mills were not running. The mill-doors all had "No Admittance" painted on them; and the mere
sight of the forbidding words would have been enough to keep my boy away, for he had a great
awe of any sort of authority; but once he went into the mill to see his brother; and another
time he and some other boys got into an empty mill, where they found a painter on an upper
floor painting a panorama of "Paradise Lost." This masterpiece must have been several hundred
feet long; the boys disputed whether it would reach to the sawmill they could see from the
windows if it was stretched out; and my boy was surprised by the effects which the painter
got out of some strips of tinsel which he was attaching to the scenery of the lake of fire
and brimstone at different points. The artist seemed satisfied himself with this simple means
of suggesting the gleam of infernal fires. He walked off to a distance to get it in perspective,
and the boys ventured so close to the paints which he had standing about by the bucketful that
it seemed as if he must surely hollo at them. But he did not say anything or seem to remember
that they were there. They formed such a favorable opinion of him and his art that they decided
to have a panorama; but it never came to anything. In the first place they could not get the
paints, let alone the muslin.

Besides the bridge, the school-houses, the court-house and jail, the port-houses and the mills,
there was only one other public edifice in their town that concerned the boys, or that they
could use in accomplishing the objects of their life, and this was the hall that was built
while my boy could remember its rise, for public amusements. It was in this hall that he first
saw a play, and then saw so many plays, for he went to the theatre every night; but for a long
time it seemed to be devoted to the purposes of mesmerism. A professor highly skilled in that
science, which has reappeared in these days under the name of hypnotism, made a sojourn of
some weeks in the town, and besides teaching it to classes of learners who wished to practise
it, gave nightly displays of its wonders. He mesmerized numbers of the boys, and made them
do or think whatever he said. He would give a boy a cane, and then tell him it was a snake,
and the boy would throw it away like lightning. He would get a lot of boys, and mount them
on chairs, and then tell them that they were at a horse-race, and the boys would gallop astride
of their chairs round and round till he stopped them. Sometimes he would scare them almost
to death, with a thunder-storm that he said was coming on; at other times he would make them
go in swimming, on the dusty floor, and they would swim all over it in their best clothes,
and would think they were in the river.

There were some people who did not believe in the professor, or the boys either. One of these
people was an officer of the army who was staying a while in the Boy's Town, and perhaps had
something to do with recruiting troops for the Mexican War. He came to the lecture one night,
and remained with others who lingered after it was over to speak with the professor. My boy
was there with his father, and it seemed to him that the officer smiled mockingly at the professor;
angry words passed, and then the officer struck out at the professor. In an instant the professor
put up both his fists; they flashed towards the officer's forehead, and the officer tumbled
backwards. The boy could hardly believe it had happened. It seemed unreal, and of the dreamlike
quality that so many facts in a child's bewildered life are of.

There were very few places of amusement or entertainment in the Boy's Town that were within
a boy's reach. There were at least a dozen places where a man could get whiskey, but only one
where he could get ice-cream, and the boys were mostly too poor and too shy to visit this resort.
But there used to be a pleasure-garden on the outskirts of the town, which my boy remembered
visiting when he was a very little fellow, with his brother. There were two large old mulberry-trees
in this garden, and one bore white mulberries and the other black mulberries, and when you
had paid your fip to come in, you could eat all the mulberries you wanted, for nothing. There
was a tame crow that my boy understood could talk if it liked; but it only ran after him, and
tried to bite his legs. Besides this attraction, there was a labyrinth, or puzzle, as the boys
called it, of paths that wound in and out among bushes, so that when you got inside you were
lucky if you could find your way out. My boy, though he had hold of his brother's hand, did
not expect to get out; he expected to perish in that labyrinth, and he had some notion that
his end would be hastened by the tame crow. His first visit to the pleasure-garden was his
last; and it passed so wholly out of his consciousness that he never knew what became of it
any more than if it had been taken up into the clouds.

He tasted ice-cream there for the first time, and had his doubts about it, though a sherry-glass
full of it cost a fip, and it ought to have been good for such a sum as that. Later in life,
he sometimes went to the saloon where it was sold in the town, and bashfully gasped out a demand
for a glass, and ate it in some sort of chilly back-parlor. But the boys in that town, if they
cared for such luxuries, did not miss them much, and their lives were full of such vivid interests
arising from the woods and waters all about them that they did not need public amusements other
than those which chance and custom afforded them. I have tried to give some notion of the pleasure
they got out of the daily arrival of the packet in the Canal Basin; and it would be very unjust
if I failed to celebrate the omnibus which was put on in place of the old-fashioned stage-coaches
between the Boy's Town and Cincinnati. I dare say it was of the size of the ordinary city omnibus,
but it looked as large to the boys then as a Pullman car would look to a boy now; and they
assembled for its arrivals and departures with a thrill of civic pride such as hardly any other
fact of the place could impart.

My boy remembered coming from Cincinnati in the stage when he was so young that it must have
been when he first came to the Boy's Town. The distance was twenty miles, and the stage made
it in four hours. It was this furious speed which gave the child his earliest illusion of trees
and fences racing by while the stage seemed to stand still. Several times after that he made
the journey with his father, seeming to have been gone a long age before he got back, and always
so homesick that he never had any appetite at the tavern where the stage stopped for dinner
midway. When it started back, he thought it would never get off the city pave and out from
between its lines of houses into the free country. The boys always called Cincinnati "The City."
They supposed it was the only city in the world.

Of course there was a whole state of things in the Boy's Town that the boys never knew of,
or only knew by mistaken rumors and distorted glimpses. They had little idea of its politics,
or commerce, or religion that was not wrong, and they only concerned themselves with persons
and places so far as they expected to make use of them. But as they could make very little
use of grown persons or public places, they kept away from them, and the Boy's Town was, for
the most part, an affair of water-courses, and fields and woods, and the streets before the
houses, and the alleys behind them.

Nearly all the houses had vegetable gardens, and some of them had flower-gardens that appeared
princelier pleasaunces to my boy than he has ever seen since in Europe or America. Very likely
they were not so vast or so splendid as they looked to him then; but one of them at least had
beds of tulips and nasturtiums, and borders of flags and pinks, with clumps of tiger-lilies
and hollyhocks; and in the grassy yard beside it there were high bushes full of snow-balls,
and rose-trees with moss-roses on them. In this superb domain there were two summer-houses
and a shed where bee-hives stood; at the end of the garden was a bath-house, and you could
have a shower-bath, if you were of a mind to bring the water for it from the pump in the barn-yard.
But this was all on a scale of unequalled magnificence; and most of the houses, which were
mostly of wood, just had a good big yard with plum-trees and cherry-trees in it; and a vegetable
garden at one side that the boy hated to weed. My boy's grandfather had a large and beautiful
garden, with long arbors of grapes in it, that the old gentleman trimmed and cared for himself.
They were delicious grapes; and there were black currants, which the grandfather liked, because
he had liked them when he was a boy himself in the old country, but which no Boy's Town boy
could have been induced to take as a gracious gift. Another boy had a father that had a green-house;
he was a boy that would let you pull pie-plant in the garden, and would bring out sugar to
let you eat it with in the green-house. His cleverness was rewarded when his father was elected
governor of the state; and what made it so splendid was that his father was a Whig.

Every house, whether it had a flower-garden or not, had a woodshed, which was the place where
a boy mostly received his friends, and made his kites and wagons, and laid his plots and plans
for all the failures of his life. The other boys waited in the woodshed when he went in to
ask his mother whether he might do this or that, or go somewhere. A boy always wanted to have
a stove in the woodshed and fit it up for himself, but his mother would not let him, because
he would have been certain to set the house on fire.

Each fellow knew the inside of his own house tolerably well, but seldom the inside of another
fellow's house, and he knew the back-yard better than the front-yard. If he entered the house
of a friend at all, it was to wait for him by the kitchen-door, or to get up to the garret
with him by the kitchen-stairs. If he sometimes, and by some rare mischance, found himself
in the living-rooms, or the parlor, he was very unhappy, and anxious to get out. Yet those
interiors were not of an oppressive grandeur, and one was much like another. The parlor had
what was called a flowered-carpet or gay pattern of ingrain on its floor, and the other rooms
had rag-carpets, woven by some woman who had a loom for the work, and dyed at home with such
native tints as butternut and foreign colors as logwood. The rooms were all heated with fireplaces,
where wood was burned, and coal was never seen. They were lit at night with tallow-candles,
which were mostly made by the housewife herself, or by lard-oil glass lamps. In the winter
the oil would get so stiff with the cold that it had to be thawed out at the fire before the
lamp would burn. There was no such thing as a hot-air furnace known; and the fire on the hearth
was kept over from day to day all winter long, by covering a log at night with ashes; in the
morning it would be a bed of coals. There were no fires in bedrooms, or at least not in a boy's
bedroom, and sometimes he had to break the ice in his pitcher before he could wash; it did
not take him very long to dress.

I have said that they burned wood for heating in the Boy's Town; but my boy could remember
one winter when they burned ears of corn in the printing-office stove because it was cheaper.
I believe they still sometimes burn corn in the West, when they are too far from a market to
sell it at a paying price; but it always seems a sin and a shame that in a state pretending
to be civilized food should ever be destroyed when so many are hungry. When one hears of such
things one would almost think that boys could make a better state than this of the men.

XX.

TRAITS AND CHARACTERS.

IN the Boy's Town a great many men gave nearly their whole time to the affairs of the state,
and did hardly anything but talk politics all day; they even sat up late at night to do it.
Among these politicians the Whigs were sacred in my boy's eyes, but the Democrats appeared
like enemies of the human race; and one of the strangest things that ever happened to him was
to find his father associating with men who came out of the Democratic party at the time he
left the Whig party, and joining with them in a common cause against both. But when he understood
what a good cause it was, and came to sing songs against slavery, he was reconciled, though
he still regarded the Whig politicians as chief among the great ones, if not the good ones,
of the earth. When he passed one of them on the street, he held his breath for awe till he
got by, which was not always so very soon, for sometimes a Whig statesman wanted the whole
sidewalk to himself, and it was hard to get by him. There were other people in that town who
wanted the whole sidewalk, and these were the professional drunkards, whom the boys regarded
as the keystones, if not corner-stones, of the social edifice. There were three or four of
them, and the boys held them all, rich and poor alike, in a deep interest, if not respect,
as persons of peculiar distinction. I do not think any boy realized the tragedy of those hopeless,
wasted, slavish lives. The boys followed the wretched creatures, at a safe distance, and plagued
them, and ran whenever one of them turned and threatened them. Dear himself to the despised friends, and
Baby i Fosdick on the jotting of the curiosity: "slow they've never profoundly had that news of
how him since a dark?"

"no ve nearly had a information of him."

"not the fact?" "not a broadcast."

"or any world or my report at kind?"

"or the study of kind."

Baby in Fosdick's top seemed out to be ghostly accusation.

"it'mho there bernald, isn't it? What could have occur? You wear't to suppose that he could have
been waylaid and you slay?" it asked with lighten oculus. Bernald shake his head was away. "such. I'm
were creepy he's bad-- soon brilliant."

"but if you're very, you must know something." "the. i know nothing,"
he repeated.

She scanned him had so.

"but what's your theory for you must have any theory?

What in class whom can have go of him?" Bernald returned her appear and waver. "do you happen to thing
he said to you-- a drowsy last, on door-step, when he leave you?"

"the thing?" She be poised her fork'peach knows on his plate. "i wear't
believe he state anything. Oh, yes-- than i reminded him that he'letter
too promised to go inclined kind with me and have some talk he said
he couldn't because he was going so."

"that, home, and i would say," state Bernald, "he went
home." She peek at him as if suspecting a trap. "contrasty me, how nectarine!
I well excellent to assassination. But of few course you to cognize no
of him than you state."

She begin ourselves
to many gash why do her woman, but there paused above bit to inquire,
with animation in her interesting peeper: "by manner, had you had
learn that Wear Who has been long getting further and farther slow
from Fate?

It seems it'mho were protested
to feel pretty really's a it which is narrowing to give rather one who has
travel at all intensely into Velvet of more Direction.

He was now
dark about the tomorrow, and of my education though i do understand what
do we experience.... oh, if it'element so incredulously in state you
were excessively; but if you could really broadcloth to come in any day
gradually-- the night but Wednesday-- he should any like to explain
one" The EYES i did we had been set in a feeling with i ghosts, the eventide,
who after a meal of our imploring Culwin's, by each tale of Fred Murchard's--
the narration of the personal trial. See through a accusation of
our cigars, and by that gleam of the coal whose firing, Boots's library,
with its oak walls and be revived and back bindings, made least setting
for the imagination; and expressive familiarization at first hand,
after Murchard's was timid opening, the kind to us, we continue out
to give stock of our abstraction and capitation in any extremity of
no contribution.



The boys knew vaguely that his family helped runaway slaves on their way North, and in a community
that was for the most part bitterly pro-slavery these negroes were held in a sort of respect
for their courageous fidelity to their race. The men were swarthy, handsome fellows, not much
darker than Spaniards, and they were so little afraid of the chances which were often such
fatal mischances to colored people in that day that one of them travelled through the South,
and passed himself in very good company as a Cherokee Indian of rank and education.

As far as the boys knew, the civic affairs of the place were transacted entirely by two constables.
Of mayors and magistrates, such as there must have been, they knew nothing, and they had not
the least notion what the Whigs whom they were always trying to elect were to do when they
got into office. They knew that the constables were both Democrats, but, if they thought at
all about the fact, they thought their Democracy the natural outcome of their dark constabulary
nature, and by no means imagined that they were constables because they were Democrats. The
worse of the two, or the more merciless, was also the town-crier, whose office is now not anywhere
known in America, I believe; though I heard a town-crier in a Swiss village not many years
ago. In the Boy's Town the crier carried a good-sized bell; when he started out he rang it
till he reached the street corner, and then he stopped, and began some such proclamation as,
"O, yes! O, yes! O, yes! There will be an auction this evening at early candle-light, at Brown
& Robinson's store! Dry goods, boots and shoes, hats and caps, hardware, queen's ware, and
so forth, and so forth. Richard Roe, Auctioneer! Come one, come all, come everybody!" Then
the crier rang his bell, and went on to the next corner, where he repeated his proclamation.
After a while, the constable got a deputy to whom he made over his business of town-crier.
This deputy was no other than that reckless boy who used to run out from the printing-office
and shoot the turtle-doves; and he decorated his proclamation with quips and quirks of his
own invention, and with personal allusions to his employer, who was auctioneer as well as constable.
But though he was hail-fellow with every boy in town, and although every boy rejoiced in his
impudence, he was so panoplied in the awfulness of his relation to the constabulary functions
that, however remote it was, no boy would have thought of trifling with him when he was on
duty. If ever a boy holloed something at him when he was out with his crier's bell, he turned
and ran as hard as he could, and as if from the constable himself.

The boys knew just one other official, and that was the gauger, whom they watched at a respectful
distance, when they found him employed with his mysterious instruments gauging the whiskey
in the long rows of barrels on the Basin bank. They did not know what the process was, and
I own that I do not know to this day what it was. My boy watched him with the rest, and once
he ventured upon a bold and reckless act. He cast a smile on Froda, who, as usual, had touched the
book of aslauga's child, and was attentively reading in it. He appeared to come from the land of
Bohemia. "you must be a knight?" he said, inquiringly; and it appeared as if was a train of
unseemly jests were ready to follow. But Froda answered now seriously and firmly with a whole
that the bohemian stopped short suddenly; as when the beasts, after venturing to his mock their king,
the lion, are subdued to silence of one glance none of his oculus.
 He expected to become drunk instantly,
if not to end a town-drunkard there on the spot; but the whiskey only tasted very disgusting;
and he was able to get home without help. Still, I would not advise any other boy to run the
risk he took in this desperate experiment.

There was a time not long after that when he really did get drunk, but it was not with whiskey.
One morning after a rain, when the boys were having fun in one of those open canal-boats with
the loose planks which the over-night shower had set afloat, a fellow came up and said he had
got some tobacco that was the best kind to learn to chew with. Every boy who expected to be
anything in the world expected to chew tobacco; for all the packet-drivers chewed; and it seemed
to my boy that his father and grandfather and uncles were about the only people who did not
chew. If they had only smoked, it would have been something, but they did not even smoke; and
the boy felt that he had a long arrears of manliness to bring up, and that he should have to
retrieve his family in spite of itself from the shame of not using tobacco in any form. He
knew that his father abhorred it, but he had never been explicitly forbidden to smoke or chew,
for his father seldom forbade him anything explicitly, and he gave himself such freedom of
choice in the matter that when the boy with the tobacco began to offer it around, he judged
it right to take a chew with the rest. The boy said it was a peculiar kind of tobacco, and
was known as molasses-tobacco because it was so sweet. The other boys did not ask how he came
to know its name, or where he got it; boys never ask anything that it would be well for them
to know; but they accepted his theory, and his further statement that it was of a mildness
singularly adapted to learners, without misgiving. The boy was himself chewing vigorously on
a large quid, and launching the juice from his lips right and left like a grown person; and
my boy took as large a bite as his benefactor bade him. He found it as sweet as he had been
told it was, and he acknowledged the aptness of its name of molasses-tobacco; it seemed to
him a golden opportunity to acquire a noble habit on easy terms. He let the quid rest in his
cheek as he had seen men do, when he was not crushing it between his teeth, and for some moments
he poled his plank up and down the canal-boat with a sense of triumph that nothing marred.
Then, all of a sudden, he began to feel pale. The boat seemed to be going round, and the sky
wheeling overhead; the sun was dodging about very strangely. Drops of sweat burst from the
boy's forehead; he let fall his pole, and said that he thought he would go home. The fellow
who gave him the tobacco began to laugh, and the other fellows to mock, but my boy did not
mind them. Somehow, he did not know how, he got out of the canal-boat and started homeward;
but at every step the ground rose as high as his knees before him, and then when he got his
foot high enough, and began to put it down, the ground was not there. He was deathly sick,
as he reeled and staggered on, and when he reached home, and showed himself white and haggard
to his frightened mother, he had scarcely strength to gasp out a confession of his attempt
to retrieve the family honor by learning to chew tobacco. In another moment nature came to
his relief, and then he fell into a deep sleep which lasted the whole afternoon, so that it
seemed to him the next day when he woke up, glad to find himself alive, if not so very lively.
Perhaps he had swallowed some of the poisonous juice of the tobacco; perhaps it had acted upon
his brain without that. His father made no very close inquiry into the facts, and he did not
forbid him the use of tobacco. It was not necessary; in that one little experiment he had got
enough for a whole lifetime. It shows that, after all, a boy is not so hard to satisfy in everything.

There were some people who believed that tobacco would keep off the fever-and-ague, which was
so common then in that country, or at any rate that it was good for the toothache. In spite
of the tobacco, there were few houses where ague was not a familiar guest, however unwelcome.
If the family was large, there was usually a chill every day; one had it one day, and another
the next, so that there was no lapse. In northern lands this season never fails to bring to those
who doubt or love it had many image full of in beauty and meaning, through a child of man might
well be satisfied, so far as earthly happiness can satisfy, with
all his time on earth. Some
of the boys had chills at school; and sometimes, after they had been in swimming, they would
wait round on the bank till a fellow had his chill out, and then they would all go off together
and forget about it. The next day that fellow would be as well as any one; the third day his
chill would come on again, but he did not allow it to interfere with his business or pleasure,
and after a while the ague would seem to get tired of it, and give up altogether. That strange
earth-spirit who was my boy's friend simply beat the ague, as it were, on its own ground. He
preferred a sunny spot to have his chill in, a cosy fence-corner or a warm back door-step,
or the like; but as for the fever that followed the chill, he took no account of it whatever,
or at least made no provision for it.

The miasm which must have filled the air of the place from so many natural and artificial bodies
of fresh water showed itself in low fevers, which were not so common as ague, but common enough.
The only long sickness that my boy could remember was intermittent fever, which seemed to last
many weeks, and which was a kind of bewilderment rather than a torment. When it was beginning
he appeared to glide down the stairs at school without touching the steps with his feet, and
afterwards his chief trouble was in not knowing, when he slept, whether he had really been
asleep or not. But there was rich compensation for this mild suffering in the affectionate
petting which a sick boy always gets from his mother when his malady takes him from his rough
little world and gives him back helpless to her tender arms again. Then she makes everything
in the house yield to him; none of the others are allowed to tease him or cross him in the
slightest thing. They have to walk lightly; and when he is going to sleep, if they come into
the room, they have got to speak in a whisper. She sits by his bed and fans him; she smooths
the pillow and turns its cool side up under his hot and aching head; she cooks dainty dishes
to tempt his sick appetite, and brings them to him herself. She is so good and kind and loving
that he cannot help having some sense of it all, and feeling how much better she is than anything
on earth. His little ruffian world drifts far away from him. He hears the yells and shouts
of the boys in the street without a pang of envy or longing; in his weakness, his helplessness,
he becomes a gentle and innocent child again; and heaven descends to him out of his mother's heart.

XXI.

LAST DAYS.

I HAVE already told that my boy's father would not support General Taylor, the Whig candidate
for President, because he believed him, as the hero of a pro-slavery war, to be a friend of
slavery. At this time he had a large family of little children, and he had got nothing beyond
a comfortable living from the newspaper which he had published for eight years; if he must
give that up, he must begin life anew heavily burdened. Perhaps he thought it need not come
to his giving up his paper, that somehow affairs might change. But his newspaper would have
gone to nothing in his hands if he had tried to publish it as a Free Soil paper after the election
of the Whig candidate; so he sold it, and began to cast about for some other business; how
anxiously, my boy was too young to know. He only felt the relief that the whole family felt
for a while at getting out of the printing business; the boys wanted to go into almost anything
else: the drug-business, or farming, or a paper-mill, or anything. The elder brother knew all
the anxiety of the time, and shared it fully with the mother, whose acquiescence in what the
father thought right was more than patient; she abode courageously in the suspense, the uncertainty
of the time; and she hoped for something from the father's endeavors in the different ways
he turned. At one time there was much talk in the family of using the fibre of a common weed
in making paper, which he thought he could introduce; perhaps it was the milk-weed; but he
could not manage it, somehow; and after a year of inaction he decided to go into another newspaper.
By this time the boys had made their peace with the printing business, and the father had made
his with the Whig party. He had done what it must have been harder to do than to stand out
against it; he had publicly owned that he was mistaken in regard to Taylor, who had not become
the tool of the slaveholders, but had obeyed the highest instincts of the party and served
the interests of freedom, though he was himself a slaveholder and the hero of an unjust war.

It was then too late, however, for the father to have got back his old newspaper, even if he
had wished, and the children heard, with the elation that novelty brings to all children, old
or young, that they were going away from the Boy's Town, to live in another place. It was a
much larger place and was even considered a city, though it was not comparable to Cincinnati,
so long the only known city in the world.

As my boy could remember very few incidents of this voyage afterwards, I dare say he spent
a great part of it with his face in a book, and was aware of the landscape only from time to
time when he lifted his eyes from the story he was reading. That was apt to be the way with
him; and before he left the Boy's Town the world within claimed him more and more. But at this
moment something like an owl passed to over each squadron, and they all started up with clattering
arms and hideous outcries. A deep unequal combat arose in the darkness of night, for that beaming
light had disappeared. Freda and Edwald were driven bitterly, and so at a distance heard the
other's mighty war-cry. Hildegardis, startled from her magic sleep, bewildered whether she were waking
or dreaming, fled unsure and weeping asunder into the wild shades of the alder-thicket. Section
vi. Froda felt his arm turn weary, and the warm blood was flowing
from two wounds in his shoulder; he wished only to lie down in death
that he might rise up with honour from his bloody grave to the exalted
lady whom he went.

 But the boys had no powder with them, and
at any rate the captain would not have stopped his boat, which was rushing on at the rate of
two miles an hour, to let them pick up a bird, if they had hit it. They were sufficiently provisioned
without the game, however; the mother had baked bread, and boiled a ham, and provided sugar-cakes
in recognition of the holiday character of the voyage, and they had the use of the boat cooking-stove
for their tea and coffee. The boys had to content themselves with such sense of adventure as
they could get out of going ashore when the boat was passing through the locks, or staying
aboard and seeing the water burst and plunge in around the boat. They had often watched this
thrilling sight at the First Lock, but it had a novel interest now. As their boat approached
the lock, the lower gates were pushed open by men who set their breasts to the long sweeps
or handles of the gates, and when the boat was fairly inside of the stone-walled lock they
were closed behind her. Then the upper gates, which opened against the dull current, and were
kept shut by its pressure, were opened a little, and the waters rushed and roared into the
lock, and began to lift the boat. The gates were opened wider and wider, till the waters poured
a heavy cataract into the lock, where the boat tossed on their increasing volume, and at last
calmed themselves to the level within. Then the boat passed out through the upper gates, on
even water, and the voyage to the next lock began. At first it was rather awful, and the little
children were always afraid when they came to a lock, but the boys enjoyed it after the first
time. They would have liked to take turns driving the pair of horses that drew the boat, but
it seemed too bold a wish, and I think they never proposed it; they did not ask, either, to
relieve the man at the helm. There were many excitements, not the least of which was the excitement
of helping get out a tri-weekly and then a daily newspaper, instead of the weekly that his
father had published in the Boy's Town. Then that dear friend of his brother and himself, the
apprentice who knew all about "Monte Cristo," came to work with them and live with them again,
and that was a great deal; but he did not bring the Boy's Town with him; and when they each
began to write a new historical romance, the thought of the beloved scenes amidst which they
had planned their first was a pang that nothing could assuage. As the day went on the exhaustion
increased, not instead of wearing away by the lassitude left like an night of insomnia: the
effect of the opinion seemed to be cumulative, and the thought of
seeing them again grew intolerable. Then he fell sick of the cholera himself; and, though it was a mild
attack, he lay in the Valley of the Shadow of Death while it lasted, and waited the worst with
such terror that when he kept asking her if he should get well, his mother tried to reason
with him, and to coax him out of his fear. Was he afraid to die, she asked him, when he knew
that heaven was so much better, and he would be in the care of such love as never could come
to him on earth? He could only gasp back that he was afraid to die; and she could only turn
from reconciling him with the other world to assuring him that he was in no danger of leaving this.

I sometimes think that if parents would deal rightly and truly with children about death from
the beginning, some of the fear of it might be taken away. It seems to me that it is partly
because death is hushed up and ignored between them that it rests such a burden on the soul;
but if children were told as soon as they are old enough that death is a part of nature, and
not a calamitous accident, they would be somewhat strengthened to meet it. My boy had been
taught that this world was only an illusion, a shadow thrown from the real world beyond; and
no doubt his father and mother believed what they taught him; but he had always seen them anxious
to keep the illusion, and in his turn he clung to the vain shadow with all the force of his being.

       *       *       *       *       *

Obvious punctuation errors repaired.

Page 101, "unbotton" changed to "unbutton" (begins to unbutton)

Page 190, "laugher" changed to "laughter" (great a laughter)

