So he tells stories; often trivial, but redeemed by the lightness of his touch, the avoidance
of redundancy, the inevitable epithets, the culminating point and finish. He illustrates the
extravagance of the day by the spendthrift Clodius, who dissolved in vinegar a pearl taken
from the ear of beautiful Metella (Sat. II, iii, 239), that he might enjoy drinking at one
draught a million sesterces, near a thousand pounds. More than once he returns to castigation
of the gluttony, which, though not yet risen to the monstrosity described by Juvenal, was invading
the houses of the wealthy. He tells of two brothers--"a precious pair"--who used to breakfast
daily upon nightingales: of one Maenius, who ruined himself in fieldfares (Ep. I, xv, 41).
In a paper on the "Art of Dining" he accumulates ironical gastronomic maxims (Sat. II, iv):
as that oblong eggs are to be preferred to round; that cabbages should be reared in dry soil;
that the forelegs of a doe-hare are choice titbits; that to make a fowl tender you must plunge
it alive into boiling wine and water; that oysters are best at the new moon; that prawns and
snails give zest to wine; that olive oil should be mixed with pickled tunny roe, chopped herbs,
and saffron. If these prescriptions are observed, he says, travestying a fine Lucretian line,
the diner-out may draw near to and drink deep from the well-spring of a happy life. By contrast
he paints the character of Ofellus, a farmer, whom he had known when a boy on the Apulian hills,
and had visited in his old age (Sat. II, ii). Deprived of his estate after Philippi, Ofellus
had rented it from its new master, working on as tenant where he had formerly been lord. "How
are we worse off now?" says the gallant old fellow to his sons. "When I was rich, we lived
on smoked bacon and cabbages, with perhaps a pullet or a kid if a friend dropped in; our dessert
of split figs and raisins grown upon the farm. Well, we have just the same to-day. What matter
that they called me 'owner' then, that a stranger is called owner now? There is no such thing
as 'owner.' This man turned us out, someone else may turn him out to-morrow; his heir will
do so at any rate when he dies. The farm was called mine once, it is called his to-day; it
can never 'belong' to anyone except the man who works and uses it. So, my boys, keep stout
hearts, and be ready to meet adversity bravely when it comes."

He lashes the legacy-hunters, who, in a time when disinclination to marriage had multiplied
the number of childless old men, were becoming a curse to society; gives rules with affected
seriousness for angling in a senior's hoards (Sat. II, v). Be sure you send him game, tell
him often how you love him, address him by his first, what we should call his Christian, name--that
tickles sensitive ears. If he offers you his will, refuse to read it, but glance sidelong at
the line where the names of legatees are written. Praise his bad verses, shoulder a way for
him in the streets, entreat him to cover up from cold his dear old head, make up to his housekeeper,
flatter him till he bids you stop. Then when he is dead and you find yourself his heir, shed
tears, spend money on his funeral, bear your honours meekly--and go on to practise upon someone
else. And he throws in a sly story of a testatrix who bequeathed her money on condition that
the heir should carry to the grave upon his naked shoulders her body oiled all over; he had
stuck to her all her life, and she hoped to shake him off for a moment after death. He enforces
the virtue of moderation and contentment from Aesop's fables, of the frog, of the daw with
borrowed plumage, of the lean weasel who squeezed himself into a granary through a tiny hole,
and grew so fat that he could not return; from the story of Philippus, who amused himself by
enriching a poor man to the ruin of his victim's peace and happiness (Ep. I, vii, 46); and
from the delightful apologue of the City and the Country Mouse (Sat. II, vi). He denounces
the folly of miserliness from the example of the ant, provident in amassing store, but restful
in fruition of it when amassed; reproves ill-natured judgement of one's neighbours almost in
the words of Prior, bidding us be to their faults a little blind and to their virtues very
kind, softening their moral blemishes as lovers and mothers euphemize a dear one's physical
defects. (Sat. I, iii) "You will not listen to me?" he stops now and then to say; "I shall
continue to cry on all the same until I rouse you, as the audience in the theatre did the other
day" (Sat. II, iii, 60). For it seems that one Fufius, a popular actor, assumed in a tragedy
the part of Trojan Ilione, whose cue was to fall asleep upon the stage until roused with a
whisper of "Mother awake!" by the ghost of her dead son Deiphilus. Poor Fufius was tipsy, fell
asleep in earnest, and was insensible to the ghost's appeal, until the audience, entering into
the fun, unanimously shouted, "Wake up, Mother!" Some of you, I know, he goes on, will listen,
even as Polemon did (Sat. II, iii, 254). Returning from a debauch, the young profligate passed
the Academy where Xenocrates was lecturing, and burst riotously in. Presently, instead of scoffing,
he began to hearken; was touched and moved and saddened, tore off conscience-stricken his effeminate
ornaments, long sleeves, purple leggings, cravat, the garland from his head, the necklace from
his throat; came away an altered and converted man. One thinks of a poem by Rossetti, and of
something further back than that; for did we not hear the story from sage Mr. Barlow's lips,
in our Sandford and Merton salad days?

