But perhaps it is on account of the place of honor it occupies immediately preceding what is
undoubtedly a very precious relic indeed, a relic that fills the worthy custodian with mystery
and importance. You enter the two documents. I'll take, signed by
you, I will ensure that Antonuelo free, and sign and leave in power from you stating that you'm
indebted.

- Okay. No more to say - "Don Ramon.
At any rate, the Ancient and Hopeful assumes more mystery and importance than ever as he uncovers
a second tin casket with a glass front. Glued to the glass, inside, is a single coarse yellow
hair about two inches long; the precious relic, which has a suspicious resemblance to a bristle,
is considered the gem of the collection, being nothing less than a hair from the Prophet's
venerable mustache. Mohammedans swear by the beard of the Prophet, just as good Christians
swear by "the great horned spoon," or by "great Caesar's ghost," so that the possession of
even this one poor little hair, surrounded as it is by a blue halo of suspicion as to its authenticity,
sheds a ray of glory upon the great Jama Mesjid scarcely surpassed by its importance as the
second-largest mosque in the world. 

He imagined that, back where I could not endure his new situation, because he be contained they
taunted him when he looked upon his face.

If it was, say, because here was something I could not stand, why
again now, resign and hold?

Don Andrés, mostly, I despise and I escarnecería, back in his mind,
calculating that the leak had been at Juanita's kisses and now becoming
very resigned to take with patience and to see them give back. Although I haven't had the pleasure
of a previous acquaintance with this gentleman, the easiest way to escape gracefully from the
sacred edifice is to backsheesh him along with the others. These backsheesh considerations
are, of course, small and immaterial matters, and one ought to feel extremely grateful to all
concerned for the happy privilege of feasting one's soul with ever so brief a contemplation
of the things in the cabinet, and more especially on the bristle-like yellow hair. These joy-inspiring
objects, ramshackled from the storehouse of the musty past, fulfil the double mission of keeping
alive the reverence of devout Mussulmans who visit the mosque, and keeping the Ancient and
Hopeful well supplied with goodakoo. While Dona Ines plotting and preparing all this for Juanita, who had declared
protector and director, her love for the protégé and disciple grew more and more rare self-giving
samples and combined into the sacred and the profane. The few days'
rest has enabled me to recover from the wilting effects of riding in the terrific heat, and
I have seen something of one of the most interesting points in all Asia. Delhi is sometimes
called the "Home of Asia," which, it seems to me, is a very appropriate name to give it.

