Another period of disturbance follows the comparatively quiet rule of Bishop De Lucy, and it
is not until we reach 1346 that we come to a fresh outburst of architectural zeal on the part
of the incumbents of Winchester. But Edingdon, and still more his successor Wykeham, left very
lasting monuments of their occupancy at Winchester. It must not be forgotten that, while to
Wykeham is due the credit of most of the actual transformation of the building, Edingdon must
have first conceived, however vaguely, the design. Edingdon's attachment to Winchester is well
illustrated by his quaint reason for refusing the offer of Canterbury: "if Canterbury is the
higher rack, Winchester is the better manger." He is, indeed, charged with having left a considerable
debt on the building, since his successor seems to have recovered a large sum from his executors,
who had also to compensate Wykeham for large numbers of cattle which had "disappeared from
the various farms of the bishopric." Yet it appears from Edingdon's own will that he began
rebuilding the nave and left money for the continuation of the work.

Wykeham, as we shall see, had already a reputation for architectural skill when first introduced
to Edward III., and this reputation stood him in good stead in the matter of preferment. When
he was elected to Winchester he found the bishop's palaces of Farnham, Wolvesey, Waltham, and
Southwark in a very dilapidated condition, and he set these in order before he turned his attention
to anything else. New College, Oxford, and Winchester College practically occupied him up to
1393; whilst his work in the cathedral was really the last great undertaking of his life, inasmuch
as it was not finished at the time of his death. The actual method of Wykeham's transformation
of the interior is described more fully elsewhere, and we will not therefore do more than quote
a few words from Willis on the work done. "The old Norman cathedral was cast nearly throughout
its length and breadth into a new form; the double tier of arches in its peristyle was turned
into one, by the removal of the lower arch, and clothed with Caen casings in the Perpendicular
style. The old wooden ceilings were replaced with stone vaultings, enriched with elegant carvings
and cognizances. Scarcely less than a total rebuilding is involved in this hazardous and expensive
operation, carried on during ten years with a systematic order worthy of remark and imitation....
Judging from the provision of his will of the expenditure for the last year and a half, the
cost of this great work to the bishop in present money cannot be estimated at less than £200,000."

Wykeham's successor, Beaufort, was far less a bishop of Winchester than an English statesman.
His contributions to the architecture of his see are very small. He did indeed so add to the
hospital of St Cross as to make it almost a new foundation; but in the cathedral he only left
one monument, though this Milner styles the "most elegant and finished chantry in the kingdom,"
lying on the south side of the retro-choir. Waynflete, who followed him, left another fine
chantry in a corresponding position to the north. Under Bishops Peter Courtenay and Thomas
Langton, the latter of whom has his chapel at the east end, next the Lady Chapel, considerable
additions were made to the architecture of the cathedral, though most of the credit is due
to the priors Hunton and Silkstede, who seem to have been chiefly responsible for the new work.
This included a prolongation of De Lucy's Lady Chapel, carried out in all probability between
the years 1470 and 1524; and the erection of the present side aisles of the presbytery, in
place of the original Norman aisles. In the latter year (1524) the side screens of the presbytery
were added by Bishop Fox, whose motto can be read on them. The work of Fox, whose chapel is
behind the reredos to the south, began in 1510, and was carried out under early Renaissance
influence. He found the choir and presbytery converted, to a great extent, to the Decorated
style, though the Norman aisles remained. He completed the transformation, adding the above-mentioned
screens, together with a wooden vaulting. He would probably have also replaced with his own
work De Lucy's additions at the east end and the Norman transepts, had he but had the time.
This, however, he did not live long enough to do, for he died in 1528. Roughly speaking, his
work lies between the transepts and the Early English east end.

The Reformation Period did not benefit much to the architectural features of Winchester Cathedral,
while it most certainly did them harm. "The bones of S. Swithun," says Woodward, "were doubtless
lost at the Reformation, when his costly shrine was taken from the feretory, where it stood
so long, and destroyed." The period was now at hand when many seem to have considered it a
religious duty to destroy monuments, or at least deface them; and Winchester, though it suffered
less than many churches, by no means escaped damage. Under Stephen Gardiner, however, no great
evil befell the building. Gardiner's own chantry behind the reredos commemorates his connection
with the cathedral, and distinctly illustrates the inferior taste of his day, when compared
with the earlier tombs about him; though it might easily have been far worse. The Puritans
maltreated it on other grounds than those of taste, it is to be feared. It was during Bishop
Gardiner's tenure of the see that Philip of Spain and Mary were married at Winchester. Contemporary
records by a Spaniard in Philip's suite, and by an English observer of the same date, recently
revealed to us by Mr Martin A.S. Hume, set forth the story of the marriage most vividly. The
king arrived from Southampton in a storm of rain, and "donned a black velvet surcoat covered
with gold bugles and a suit of white velvet trimmed in the same way, and thus he entered, passing
the usual red-clothed kneeling aldermen with gold keys on cushions, and then to the grand cathedral,
which impressed the Spaniards with wonder, and above all to find that 'Mass was as solemnly
sung there as at Toledo.' A little crowd of mitred bishops stood at the great west door, crosses
raised and censers swinging, and in solemn procession to the high altar, under a velvet canopy,
they led the man whom they looked upon as God's chosen instrument to permanently restore their
faith in England." Two days after the wedding took place. Great attention is paid to the clothes
by both English and Spanish narrators, and the ceremony and dresses were very magnificent;
the Queen's ladies "looked more like celestial angels than mortal creatures." The Queen, we
are told, blazed with jewels to such an extent that the eye was blinded as it looked upon her;
her dress was of black velvet flashing with gems, and a splendid mantle of cloth of gold fell
from her shoulders; but through the Mass that followed the marriage service she never took
her eyes off the crucifix upon which they were devoutly fixed. The marriage took place in the
July of 1554, and the chair used by Queen Mary is now standing in Bishop Langton's chapel.

Some stormy years at the end of Gardiner's interrupted episcopacy and during the rule of his
immediate successors did not much affect Winchester externally; but under Robert Horne the
whole diocese suffered terribly through the "Puritanical" views of its bishop. The Norman chapter-house
was pulled down, part of the lead on the cathedral roof was stripped off, and stained glass,
architectural decorations, etc., throughout the neighbourhood were ruthlessly destroyed. However,
after a short period of comparative peace, far worse had yet to come. Under James I. and during
the early part of the reign of Charles I., little happened to the building beyond the institution
of Curle's passage through the buttress at the southern end of the cathedral, with its quaint
inscription on the western wall. The Great Rebellion, as was only to be expected, brought Winchester
into the utmost peril. The important situation of the town in the south of England caused it
to become the centre of much hard fighting. Sir William Waller, whom Winchester has no cause
to remember with affection, came very near to destroying the interior of the cathedral entirely.
His troops marched right up the nave in full war equipment, some even being mounted. Tombs
were defaced, relics scattered, statues mutilated, stained glass smashed, and the more portable
objects carried out into the streets. It is difficult to estimate with any exactitude what
was the whole extent of the damage done; but we have sufficient testimony in the broken figures,
empty niches, etc., to see that it was great. One highly creditable incident in the midst of
the general disgrace has been recorded--namely, the preservation from insult of Wykeham's chantry.
This was the work of a Colonel Fiennes, who had been educated at Wykeham's College at Winchester.
The protests of the inhabitants seem to have finally induced Waller to call off his fanatical
troops from their work of destruction and violation. What might have happened to the cathedral,
had this not been done, it is quite impossible to imagine. "Of the brass torn from the violated
monuments" in 1644 "might have been built a house as strong as the brazen towers of old romances"
(Ryves's "Mercurius Rusticus" quoted by Milner).

Here the architectural history of Winchester Cathedral practically ends. We find tombs and
memorial brasses of all dates, but until the modern restorations nothing of importance affected
the actual appearance of the church. Among the few examples of Jacobean work to be seen within,
the nave pulpit can hardly be classed, since it was brought from New College Chapel at Oxford
as late as 1884. The two statues of James I. and Charles I. by the west door are the work of
Hubert le Sueur, who came to England in 1628. The urns which were supposed in the last century
to decorate the reredos have long ago been removed, as has also the gilt Jacobean canopy which
formerly disfigured the centre of this screen; but Benjamin West's "Raising of Lazarus" still
remains above the altar.

This century's work in the cathedral is not very formidable in its extent. All of it is mentioned
elsewhere in this book, and it is sufficient here to say that the erection of Sir G. Scott's
choir-screen and the restoration of the reredos are the most noticeable "modern" features,
though the latter was carried out on the old lines as nearly as was thought advisable. Sir
G. Scott's additions to Winchester have by no means given universal satisfaction, severe language
having been applied to them by more than one expert. The most recent alterations have consisted
chiefly of a very necessary, though costly, strengthening of the nave roof. This work is, of
course, invisible from the ground level, but can be reached from the stair in the south transept.
A repair of the organ has also been provided for, and new glass has been inserted in the large
south window of the Lady Chapel, in memory of Bishop Thorold.

CHAPTER II

THE CATHEDRAL BUILDING AND CLOSE

Before any detailed consideration of the architecture of the cathedral, it is well to be clear
as to the various dates of the chief parts. But it must here be remembered that practically
in every instance the now existing portions replaced still earlier structures on the same site.
Mention has been made already of the changes from the original building to the one commenced
in the eleventh century. In 1079 Bishop Walkelin laid the foundations of a great Norman church,
of which the transepts, the outer face of the south nave wall, the core of the nave itself,
the crypts, and a portion of the base of the west front are still existing. Walkelin's work
was completed in fourteen years, just before the end of 1093. The tower fell in 1107, but was
rebuilt soon afterwards in the form which we now see it. Bishop de Lucy's work, which came
next in date (1189-1204), includes the Chapel of the Guardian Angels, flanking the Lady Chapel,
at the north-east end of the cathedral, and the corresponding chapel on the south-east, which
afterwards became the chantry of Bishop Langton. The piers of the presbytery probably date
from about 1320. The west front was rebuilt in Edingdon's time (1345-1366), and a small part
of the reconstruction of the nave, the first two bays of the north aisle, and a bay of the
south are generally attributed to him. The great re-modelling of the nave, the outer walls
of the presbytery, and the continuation of the Lady Chapel range in date of completion from
the end of the fourteenth to the sixteenth century. So much, however, of each period has been
altered, and often modified almost beyond recognition by later additions, that it is impossible
to make more than a rough guess at the age of the various portions. The work of Wykeham and
his successors is so important that it must be left until we reach it in its proper place.

The ground covered by the actual building is one and a half acres in extent. The close is fine
and extensive, and is surrounded by a high and stout wall which marks the limits of the old
Benedictine monastery. The houses within the close are of widely different dates, from the
Early English period to recent years. They comprise the official residences of the dean and
the canons, together with some private houses. The changes made from time to time in the distribution
of the ground have involved the disappearance of the old priory buildings, and it is not possible
to trace with certainty their original form. The laying out of the close has concealed the
ground plan of the cloisters which once adjoined the cathedral. What is now called by the name
is the passage between the south transept and the former chapter-house, which was pulled down
in 1570 by the destructive Bishop Horne, in order, it is said, that the lead in the roof might
be sold. Five extremely fine Early Norman arches which were once part of the chapter-house
still remain, and may be seen in a line with the end of the slype, beyond the south transept.
Some traces of small arches on what is now the extreme outer wall of the transept mark where
arcading once ran along the inner wall of the chapter-house. No vestige of the roof remains.
The "slype" is a passage which was cut through the southern buttress by Bishop Curle, to put
a stop to the constant use of the nave and south aisle as a thoroughfare by the townspeople.
The anagrams on the walls commemorate the purpose of the passage; the first, on the western
arch, reading:--

ILL\               PREC\
    \                   \
     >AC                 >ATOR
    /                   /
  H/       AMBULA    VI/

and that over the eastern arch:--

   /ACR\        S\        ILL\       CH\
  /     \         \           \         \
S<       >A        >IT         >A        >ORO[1]
  \     /         /           /         /
   \ERV/        S/        IST/        F/

In the angle of an old extension of the chapter-house south wall are traces of the dormitory
and infirmary which formerly stood there. The Early English doorway with Purbeck marble shafts
seems to have led to this dormitory. To the south of this is the deanery or prior's hall, the
acute external arches, which date from the reign of Henry III., forming a vestibule with a
southern aspect, while above are some narrow lancet-windows. Although the original portion
of this hall dates from the fifteenth century, it was considerably altered in the seventeenth,
during the second Charles's reign. This king himself sometimes stayed at the deanery, where
Philip of Spain lodged for one night before his marriage. Over a wooden building, which now
serves as the dean's stables, is an ornamental timber roof of late thirteenth-century work,
which was once part of the old pilgrims' or strangers' hall originally standing in this part
of the close for the benefit of pilgrims to the shrine of S. Swithun.

   [1] Illac precator, hac viator ambula (That way thou that
       prayest, this way thou that passest by, walk); Sacra sit illa
       choro, serva sit ista foro (That way is sacred to the Choir,
       that for use to the market-place).

In the south wall of the cathedral, close to the west front, there is a doorway which is reported
to have led to the chapel and charnel-house mentioned by Leland. "S. Swithin, now called Trinity,"
he says, "stands on the south side of the town, and there is a chapelle with a carnarie at
the west end of it." S. Swithin is, of course, the cathedral itself. Leland's other carnary,
which must not be confused with this, was attached to a chapel "on the north side of S. Mary
Abbey church at Winchester, in an area thereby, on which men entre by a certen steppes. One
Inkepenne, a gentilman that berith in his shield a scheker sylver and sables, was founder of
it. There be three tumbes of marble of prestes custodes of the chapelle."

Among the old houses which have vanished from the close is one in which Charles II. in vain
requested Bishop Ken to allow Nell Gwynne to lodge; and one which was erected for her and not
pulled down until this century. The cathedral precincts, however, still contain on the southern
side several buildings well worthy of notice. A picturesque house yet standing is that which
was known by the name of Cheyney Court. It now serves as a porter's lodge, and stands by the
wooden-doored gateway which opens into Kingsgate Street. The doors are supposed to have come
down to us from the thirteenth century. Previously this lodge was the courthouse of the Soke
of Winchester, and the centre of the episcopal jurisdiction here. The old timbered front, with
its barge-boards, was in 1886 concealed behind a rough-cast cement coating, but in that year
this was fortunately stripped away, and the present charming aspect revealed to the eye.

#The Exterior.#--It would be difficult to deny that the exterior of Winchester Cathedral is
disappointing, and few are likely to echo the opinion of an over-zealous admirer of the building
who said that the longer one looks at it the more one feels the low central tower to be the
only kind that would suit the huge proportions of the building. On the contrary, it may be
said that it is impossible to look at Winchester without a feeling of regret that the superb
mass of the great fabric, the largest mediæval church in England since the destruction of old
S. Paul's, is not crowned by a loftier central tower. There is a legend to the effect that
there were seven towers in the original design--the central one, two at the west end, and one
at each angle of the transepts; and this seems to be supported by the solid character of some
of the piers in the transepts. Yet, despite the rather ungraceful outline of the whole building,
when its mere size is realised, it gradually asserts its importance and incontrovertibly proves
its right to be considered one of the very finest structures in England.

It will not be out of place to quote a short criticism which sums up the external qualities
of the cathedral in a concise way:--"With the exception of portions of the late work in the
presbytery, the exterior of Winchester is severe in treatment, and plain wall-space plays an
important part in the design. Plain parapets and simply treated pinnacles characterise the
work of the nave. The Norman transepts are externally but little altered, except by the insertion
of Decorated windows to give more light to the altars in their eastern aisles; and De Lucy's
work eastwards is, compared with some work of its date, simple in the extreme. Rather more
elaboration was bestowed on the design of the new eastern bay of the Lady Chapel by Prior Silkstede
and Bishop Courtenay; but, taken as a whole, Winchester has one of the simplest exteriors for
its size and importance in the country" ("Winchester Cathedral" in The Builder for October 1892).

The ground-plan of Winchester Cathedral is in the form of a plain Latin cross, hardly broken
in its outline save by the Perpendicular prolongation of the Lady Chapel at the east end. But,
simple as is the plan, "the great length of the church" (to use the words of Fergusson) "is
pleasingly broken ... by the bold projection of its transepts, which here extend, as usual
in England, three bays beyond the aisles, their section being the same width as that of the
nave." The width of the nave with the aisles is 88 feet, while the transepts measure, from
east to west, 81 feet. The total length has already been given as 556, and the width from north
to south across the transepts is 230 feet. The altitude of the walls is 75 feet, which is a
foot less than at Peterborough, though three more than at Ely.

#The West Front#, the work of Bishop Edingdon, has been roughly handled by its critics, though
Britton calls it a fine specimen of Perpendicular architecture. The original Norman work demolished
by Edingdon was, as excavations have proved, forty feet in advance of the present façade. To
judge by accounts of the destroyed portions, the west front in its earlier state must have
been far more imposing than it is at present, for not only is it now commonplace in mass, but
even the detail has no particular charm to atone for the change. The whole of this work appears
so thoroughly Perpendicular in character that it has been questioned whether at such an early
date as that to which it is assigned the style can have been so far developed. Woodward, indeed,
though attributing to Edingdon the walls and the principal part of the west end, declares the
tracery, the fronts of the porches, and much of the panelling to be later; but a comparison
of Winchester with another church undoubtedly built by this bishop, at his native town of Edingdon,
in Wiltshire, supports the tradition which credits him with its erection. Besides this evidence,
we have additional proof in the fact that he left by his will certain property to be devoted
to the completion of the nave. Late though his work may appear at first sight, yet when it
is closely examined and compared with Wykeham's work the difference is very apparent.

The whole western façade with its three bays is wanting in greatness, and its effect may be
said to be that of a large parish church rather than a cathedral. Not only do we miss the western
towers which are so often the most striking feature of an English west front, but the screen
which masks the lower storey lacks the richness which distinguishes a somewhat similar feature
at Exeter. The curiously poor appearance, notwithstanding its huge size, of the great west
window is perhaps chiefly responsible for the want of dignity in the whole; nor is there, to
redeem this, any delicate fancy in the tracery. The "merest stone grating" Willis terms the
window, and though from so warm a panegyrist of the church this seems a severe criticism, no
one can traverse his opinion.

By way of further proof that the west front was Edingdon's work, Willis points out that, while
in Wykeham's panels the masonry itself is carefully finished, and the same stones used for
the ground of the panel and its mouldings, in Edingdon's work the monials and tracery alone
exhibit good masonry, the panels being filled with rough ashlar. By other tests, too technical
to quote here, the same critic makes it clear that the west front, with two compartments of
the nave on the north and one to the south, must be attributed to Edingdon, though he probably
did not finish the gable and turrets, which seem to be the work of Wykeham. The present state
shows a gable rising in the centre, flanked by octagonal pinnacle turrets. On the apex of this
gable is a canopied finial containing a niche wherein now stands a figure of William of Wykeham,
the original statue, which was supposed to represent S. Swithun, having been removed to the
feretory when the west front was restored in 1860 at a cost of £3000. The triangle of the gable
is filled with tracery, the lower part of the central panels in which serve as a smaller square-headed
six-light window above the parapet which crosses at the head of the great nine-light window.
Buttresses assist in supporting the two towers, and lesser ones project to hide the sides of
the porch, which, pierced by three doorways and crowned by a parapet, extends along the whole
lower storey, across the nave and both aisles. Above the screen the pitched roofs of aisles
may be seen. The bays containing the side windows, of four lights each, accord in style with
the large central one, having also wall tracery in panels over the comparatively small surface
of unpierced wall. The screen itself has three deeply-recessed portals with pointed arches,
and a large canopied empty niche on each side of the main entrance.

The central doorway is divided by a clustered shaft, where from spring two cinquefoil arches.
The recessed portal has a groined roof, with an arcade of cusped arches on the main west wall,
broken by the doorways which give admission to the nave. A pierced balcony of simple design
crowns the whole of the screen and forms a gallery which is said to have been used for bestowing
episcopal benedictions to the people outside the cathedral on festival days.

The excavations which brought to light the old foundations of the original west front showed
"a wall of 128 feet from north to south, and 12 feet thick, with returns at each end of the
same thickness 60 feet in length. At their eastern ends the walls again turn in at right angles
and meet the present side aisles at 17 feet from each corner. Within the parallelogram thus
partially traced two other walls run from east to west at a distance of 36 feet from each other."
In a garden adjoining the west end of the cathedral at the time when these observations were
made, part of the south-west angle of the walls still remained. Indications of the western
towers were apparent; and Willis suggests that they were probably either unfinished, or in
a threatening condition, so that Edingdon demolished them; even as at Gloucester the western
towers of the cathedral were removed, and the façade was replaced by a perpendicular west front
at the beginning of the fifteenth century.

The original west front may very probably have been similar to that of Lincoln Cathedral, "unornamental,"
says a writer in Architecture, "save for some interlacing arches and dwarf blind arcades, and
with no windows to reflect the setting sun, or to light the cavernous interior."

The two westernmost bays of the #North side# are due to Edingdon, and we get here well contrasted
the work of Edingdon and of Wykeham. In Willis's plan the difference can be clearly seen. The
two windows to the right are heavier, lower, and broader, and display much deeper exterior
mouldings, with "a most cavernous and gloomy appearance," while the window on the left hand
is much narrower and lighter. The left-hand buttress is like the others on the north side of
the church, whereas the other three are different from it and from one another, that on the
extreme right, together with its pinnacle, being apparently just as Edingdon left it. The pinnacles
and upper set-off of the two centre buttresses in the figure were added by Wykeham to Edingdon's
underwork. The mouldings of Wykeham's windows are more elaborate than those of Edingdon's,
where the tracery is similar to that of the west window. Of the bays on the north side the
nine next to Edingdon's two, together with the three beyond the northern transept, are Wykeham's
work, as are the three bays beyond the transept on the southern side and the extension of the
Lady Chapel. Edingdon claims, beside what has been already mentioned, one bay on the south,
next the west front. De Lucy's work consists of the three easterly bays on either side, and
part of the Lady Chapel exterior. The rest of the bays are Norman, and the prevailing note
is simplicity, not to say rudeness. The #South side# of the nave is almost devoid of decoration,
the bays being merely divided by flat buttresses which do not reach below the bottoms of the
aisle windows. The eleven windows in the clerestory above are all alike, divided only by flat
buttresses. Aisle and clerestory both show a plain parapet and corbels. The bold buttresses
on the north side, with their panelled and crocketted pinnacles, save it from the monotony
of the south side, which, however, was once greatly concealed by cloisters and convent buildings,
and is even now far more enclosed than the northern side.

The low #Central Tower#, the coping of which is only 35 feet above the ridge of the transept
roof, is Norman, though, as explained before, of later date than the transepts. It is of a
simple square form, 150 feet high by 50 wide, and is divided by a string course into two storeys,
the lower of which is plain with small round-headed windows; the larger upper storey has on
each side three narrow round-headed windows, which form a kind of arcade round the upper part
of the tower, surmounted by a zig-zag string course. At the angles are engaged shafts. The
massive manner in which the tower was rebuilt in the eleventh century can be better appreciated
from within, when we come to the piers which support it. The building has been said to prove
that the Normans of the period were "still bad masons and imperfectly acquainted with the principles
of construction," the masses of masonry employed showing an enormous waste of both labour and
materials. But the architects at any rate gained their end, since the tower has stood to the
present day. The strength of the original Norman work, indeed, is so great that for all the
250 feet of nave no flying-buttresses were required to support the later vaulting.

