"How d'ye come to get into the water? That hasn't been a very popular element with you in the
past; eh, Jim," said the Captain with a grin. "Colonel Snow, let me introduce Swiftwater Jim,
an ancient Alaskan that I believe we took over with the territory under the Seward treaty with
Russia in 1867, and the oldest 'Sourdough' in any one of the six districts. He's made at least
a dozen trips with me. He usually owns the boat going 'out,' but is satisfied with the steerage
going 'in'."

Colonel Snow grasped the miner's hand, saying:

"Swiftwater Jim is no stranger to anyone who knows the history of the Alaskan country. Let
me introduce some young fellows who are making their first trip."

The miner, whose drying garb was made up of a mixture of the costume of the frontier pioneer
and garments of the latest cut, shook hands with the boys as he said:

"I'll pay ye captain, for puttin' me back in the mammoth class, but what I'm lookin' for is
the feller that went into the dew after me. That certainly was a few damp moments. I was rattled,
but I knew somebody grabbed me just before the light went out."

"Here's the chap," said Captain Huxley, as he shoved the reluctant Rand to the front.

The miner grasped Rand's hand and gazed into his face with a solemn stare.

"Wa'al, wa'al, such a young feller, too. How'd ye do it?" he inquired.

"It's part of our training as Scouts," replied Rand, modestly.

"Scouts, eh?" he cried. "Embreeo soldiers, eh? I heard of them this last trip out to the States.
Wa'al, Mr. Peyton, I ain't a goin' to make no fervent speech of gratitood, for ye know how
I feel, and I ain't trimmed up to make a more substantial showin' just now, but if you boys
is a goin' 'in' as we say, ye'll hear from Swiftwater Jim before ye come out."

"Tell us how it happened, Jim," said Captain Huxley.

"Now, now, Captain, ye know me and ye know I can take care of me own troubles," replied Jim.

"Look here, Jim," said Captain Huxley, sternly. "You know I'm boss here, so long as you're
afloat, and anything of this kind demands investigation. Besides, I don't propose to have a
traveling feud on my manifest, all the way to Skagway. Out with it."

"Wa'al, Captain," said Swiftwater, "when I come aboard last night I found among the ruck in
the steerage that gambler, Dublin, and a limpy pal of his. We got to playing poker, and the
two of them cleaned me out, and because I found them using marked cards they came after me
with them spikes. A young feller that was with them jumped on my back, and I went overboard.
I'll tend to 'em."

"No, you won't, Jim," remarked Captain Huxley. "From this to Skagway you'll bunk on my deck
and keep away from here."

Turning to a couple of the crew, the commander of the "Queen" said: "Bring that Dublin crowd
here." The men hurried away, and in a few minutes presented to the astonished eyes of the Scouts
their old acquaintances and quasi-enemies, Dublin, Limpy Rae, and Monkey Rae. The latter favored
the boys with a look of hatred and a muttered imprecation.

"We ain't done nothin'"--began Dublin.

"That'll do, Dublin," replied Captain Huxley. "You know me of old, and I want to say I should
have refused you passage if I had known you were going back to the Klondike. If you start another
card game on this boat or get into any other trouble, I'll put you in irons, and hand you over
to the authorities when we reach port. I'm not sure that there are not several United States
marshals in Alaska, yearning for a sight of you, now."

Dublin turned white, attempted to speak, and then with his companions slunk back into the steerage.

"Why, we saw Monkey Rae trip up this man," said Jack pointing to Swiftwater, "but we didn't
know it was Monkey then. It was a cowardly attack."

"Well," said Captain Huxley, "we'll let the matter drop now, unless Swiftwater complains."

