The red glow was suddenly very bright and a silvery metallic shape loomed up before him in
the whiteness. An ethership! Luke tried to call out but his bellowing voice was gone; only
faint gurgling sounds came from his throat. He pushed forward with a savage summoning of his
last ounce of energy and Fuller's weight was that of a mastodon upon him. The curved hull of
the vessel was overhead when he slipped and fell to one knee in the thick carpet of snow.

Luke saw them then, a dozen strangers running from the open air-lock of the ship. In uniform,
some of them--government officials of Earth and Mars. Damn them, it was a trap!

Knowing vaguely that they had surrounded him, he let Fuller slip from his shoulders and lowered
him gently to the snow. Lurching to his feet, he stood swaying above the scientist's body,
ready to defend the helpless man against any who came to take him. Defiant curses died in his
paralyzed throat as darkness swooped down to blot out all consciousness. His steel-sinewed
body, beaten at last, slumped protectingly over the lanky form of his new-found friend.

                     *      *      *      *      *

When Luke next saw the light he stared long and hard at immaculate white walls and ceiling
that shut him in. A gentle purring was in his ears and he knew he was in an ethership that
was under way. He lay weak and helpless beneath snowy covers, on an iron hospital bed.

There were voices in the room, hushed, awed voices, and Luke moved his head painfully to stare
across the room. Fuller, he saw, was stretched on another cot, pale and still. And a white-clad
nurse was there, bending over him, talking softly to a doctor. The words that passed between
them brought enlightenment to Luke--and more. They brought a new elation, and understanding,
and hope.

When the doctor and nurse had left, Luke lay for a long time with his thoughts. There was a
man--Tom Fuller. Unafraid, as an agent of a special governmental committee investigating prison
conditions he had volunteered to get the evidence on Vulcan's Workshop. And he had done it,
even though it was almost certain that his own life was to be the price. He had dared the misery
and hardship, dared X.C. and the horrible death it brought, that this hellhole of Vulcan might
be exposed, that it might be wiped out of existence by government agreement. Vulcan's Workshop,
where the gold dust of a certain political clique, brought torture and disease and extinction
to hapless prisoners who might otherwise be remade into useful members of society by the use
of scientific methods--all this was to be no more.

Fuller had succeeded where many others had failed. And Fuller was not to die. Only one of his
lungs had been affected by X.C. and this not too extensively to respond to treatment. Many
months of careful attendance would be required, and many more months of convalescence. But
Fuller, they were sure, would live, Luke gloated.

From what he had heard, Luke gathered that there was to be no trouble about his own pardon.
Oddly enough, this gave him no satisfaction. Something had happened to him--inside. For the
first time he realised his debt to society and would have preferred that just sentence be carried
out upon him. But not in that place, not in Vulcan's Workshop! Luke shuddered.

                     *      *      *      *      *

And lying there, he swore a mighty oath that the remainder of his life was to be devoted to
entirely different pursuits. It was not too late to face about, not too late to learn. If Fuller
would help him, he would learn. He had acquired a healthy respect for the book-learning he
formerly ridiculed, and he wanted some of it for himself--as much as he could get. His old
creed was forgotten, and his bitterness vanished.

"Luke!" At the scientist's husky whisper he turned his head. Fuller was gazing at him with
wide, solemn eyes.

"Thanks, Luke," the thin lips murmured.

"Thanks yourself. Where'd we be right now if it wasn't for your radium?"

There was silence as they regarded one another.

"I need you, Luke," Fuller whispered then, "in my laboratory back home. I'll be laid up for
a long time, you know, and there's much to be done. Your brawn and my brain--we'll both profit.
What do you say to that, Fenton, will you do it?"

Luke grinned. "Will I? Just watch me!"

Then, with a queer lump choking him, Luke looked away. He could think of no words to suit the
occasion; he couldn't think at all somehow.

Blissfully, he fell asleep.