Turgesius landed with his fleet on the northeast coast of the  island, and straightway the
scattered bands of Scandinavians  already in the country acknowledged his leadership and flocked
to his standard. McGeoghegan says that "he assumed in his own  hands the sovereignty of all
the foreigners that were then in  Ireland."

From the north he marched southward; and, passing Armagh on his  route, attacked and took it,
and plundered its shrines,  monasteries, and schools. There were then within its walls seven
thousand students, according to an ancient roll which Keating  says has been discovered at
Oxford. These were slaughtered or  dispersed, and the same fate attended the nine hundred monks
residing in its monasteries.

Foraanan, the primate, fled; and the pagan sea-kong, entering  the cathedral, seated himself
on the primatial throne, and had  himself proclaimed archbishop.--(O'Curry.) He had shortly
before  devastated Clonmacnoise and made his wife supreme head of that  great ecclesiastical
centre, celebrated for its many convents of  holy women. The tendency to add insult to outrage,
when the  object of the outrage is the religion of Christ, is old in the  blood of the northern
barbarians; and Turgesius was merely  setting the example, in his own rude and honest fashion,
to the  more polished but no less ridiculous assumption of  ecclesiastical authority, which
was to be witnessed in England,  on the part of Henry VIII. and Elizabeth.

The power of the invader was so superior to whatever forces the  neighboring Irish clans could
muster, that no opposition was  even attempted at first by the indignant witnesses of those
sacrileges. It is even said that at the very time when the  Northmen were pillaging and burning
in the northeast of the  island, the men of Munster were similarly employed in Bregia;  and
Conor, the reigning monarch of Ireland, instead of defending  the invaded territories, was
himself hard at work plundering  Leinster to the banks of the river Liffey--(Haverty.) But,
doubtless, none of those deluded Irish princes had yet heard of  the pagan devastations and
insults to their religion, and thus  it was easy for the great sea-kong to strengthen and extend
his  power. For the attainment of his object he employed two powerful  agents which would have
effectually crushed Ireland forever, if  the springs of vitality in the nation had not been
more than  usually expansive and strong.

The political ability of the Danes began to show itself in  Ireland, as it did about the same
period (830) in England, and  later on in France. Turgesius saw that, in order to subdue the
nation, it was necessary to establish military stations in the  interior and fortify cities
on the coast, where he could receive  reinforcements from Scandinavia. These plans he was prompt
to  put into practice.

His military stations would have been too easily destroyed by  the bravery of the Irish, strengthened
by the elasticity of  their clan-system, if they were, planted on land. He, therefore,  set
them in the interior lakes which are so numerous in the  island, where his navy could repel
all the attacks of the  natives, unused as they were to naval conflicts. He stationed a  part
of his fleet on Lough Lee in the upper Shannon, another in  Lough Neagh, south of Antrim, a
third in Lough Lughmagh or  Dundalk bay. These various military positions were strongholds
which secured the supremacy of the Scandinavians in the north of  the island for a long time.
In the south, Turgesius relied on  the various cities which his troops were successively to
build  or enlarge, namely, Dublin, Limerick, Galway, Cork, Waterford,  and Wexford.  This first
Scandinavian ruler could begin that  policy only by establishing his countrymen in Dublin,
which they  seized in 836.

Up to that time the Irish had scarcely any city worthy of the  name. A patriarchal people,
they followed the mode of life of  the old Eastern patriarchs, who abhorred dwelling in large
towns. Until the invasion of the Danes, the island was covered with  farm-houses placed at
some distance from each other. Here and  there large duns or raths, as they were called, formed
the  dwellings of their chieftains, and became places of refuge for  the clansmen in time of
danger. Churches and monasteries arose  in great numbers from the time of St. Patrick, which
were first  built in the woods, but soon grew into centres of population,  corresponding in
many respects to the idea of towns as generally  understood.

The Northmen brought with them into Ireland the ideas of cities,  commerce, and municipal life,
hitherto unknown. The introduction  of these supposed a total change necessary in the customs
of the  natives, and stringent regulations to which the people could not  but be radically
opposed. And strange was their manner of  introduction by these northern hordes. Keating tells
us how  Turgesius understood them. They were far worse than the  imaginary laws of the Athenians
as recorded in the "Birds" of  Aristophanes. No more stringent rules could be devised, whether
for municipal, rural, or social regulations; and, as the  Northmen are known to have been of
a systematic mind, no  stronger proof of this fact could be given.

Keating deplores in the following terms the fierce tyranny of  the Danish sea-kong:

"The result of the heavy oppression of this thraldom of the  Gaels under the foreigner was,
that great weariness thereof came  upon the men of Ireland, and the few of the clergy that
survived  had fled for safety to the forests and wildernesses, where they  lived in misery,
but passed their time piously and devoutly, and  now the same clergy prayed fervently to God
to deliver them from  that tyranny of Turgesius, and, moreover, they fasted against  that tyrant,
and they commanded every layman among the faithful,  that still remained obedient to their
voice, to fast against him  likewise. And God then heard their supplications in as far as 
the delivering of Turgesius into the hands of the Gaels."

Thus in the ninth century the subsequent events of the sixteenth  and seventeenth were foreshadowed.
The judicious editor of  Keating, however, justly remarks, that this description, taken  mainly
from Cambrensis, is not supported in its entirety by the  contemporaneous annals of the island;
that the power of the  Danes never was as universal and oppressive as is here supposed;  and
that though each of the facts mentioned may have actually  taken place in some part of the
country, at some period of the  Danish invasion, yet the whole, as representing the actual
state  of the entire island at the time, is exaggerated and of too  sweeping a nature.

It is clear, nevertheless, that the domination of the Northmen  could not have been completely
established in Ireland, together  with their notions of superiority of race, trade on a large
scale, and a consequent agglomeration of men in large cities,  without the total destruction
of the existing social state of  the Irish, and consequently something of the frightful tyranny
just described.

But the people were too brave, too buoyant, and too ardent in  their nature, to bear so readily
a yoke so heavy. They were too  much attached to their religion, not to sacrifice their lives,
if necessary, in order to put an end to the sacrilegious  usurpations of a pagan king, profaning,
by his audacious  assumptions, the noblest, highest, purest, and most sacred  dignities of
holy Church. A man, stained with the blood of so  many prelates and priests, seated on the
primatial throne of the  country in sheer derision of their most profound feelings; his  pagan
wife ruling over the city which the virgins of Bridget,  the spouses of Christ, had honored
and sanctified so long; their  religion insulted by those who tried to destroy it--how could
such a state of things be endured by the whole race, not yet  reduced to the condition to which
so many centuries of  oppression subsequently brought it down!

Hence Keating could write directly after the passage just quoted: "When the nobles of Ireland
saw that Turgesius had brought  confusion upon their country, and that he was assuming supreme
authority over themselves, and reducing them to thraldom and  vassalage, they became inspired
with a fortitude of mind, and a  loftiness of spirit, and a hardihood and firmness of purpose,
that urged them to work in right earnest, and to toil zealously  in battle against him and
his murdering hordes."

And hereupon the faithful historian gives a long list of  engagements in which the Irish were
successful, ending with the  victory of Malachi at Glas Linni, where we know from the Four
Masters that Turgesius himself was taken prisoner and afterward  drowned in Lough Uair or Owell
in West Meath, by order of the  Irish king.

This prince, then monarch of the whole island, atoned for the  apathy and the want of patriotism
of his predecessors, Conor and  the Nialls. He was in truth a saviour of his country, and the
death of the oppressor was the signal for a general onslaught  upon the "foreigners" in every
part of the island.

"The people rose simultaneously, and either massacred them in  their towns, or defeated them
in the fields, so that, with the  exception of a few strongholds, like Dublin, the whole of
Ireland was free from the Northmen. Wherever they could escape,  they took refuge in their
ships, but only to return in more  numerous swarms than before." - (M. Haverty.)

It is evident that their deep sense of religion was the chief  source of the energy which the
Irish then displayed. They had  not yet been driven into a fierce resistance by being forcibly
deprived of their lands; although the Danes, when they carried  their vexatious tyranny into
all the details of private life -  not allowing lords and ladies of the Irish race to wear
rich  dresses and appear in a manner befitting their rank - when they  went so far as to refuse
a bowl of milk to an infant, that a  rude soldier might quench his thirst with it - could have
scarcely permitted the apparently conquered people to enjoy all  the advantages accruing to
the owner from the possession of land. Yet in none of the chronicles of the time which we have
seen is  any mention made of open confiscation, and of the survey and  division of the territory
among the greedy followers of the sea- kong.  We do not yet witness what happened shortly after
in  Normandy under Rollo, and what was to happen four hundred years  later in Ireland.  The
Scandinavians had not yet attained that  degree of civilization which makes men attach a paramount
importance to the possession of a fixed part of any territory,  and call in surveys, title-deeds,
charters, and all the written  documents necessitated by a captious and over-scrupulous  legislation.
The Irish, consequently, did not perceive that  their broad acres were passing into the control
of a foreign  race, and were being taken piecemeal from them, thus bringing  them gradually
down to the condition of mere serfs and  dependants.

What they did see, beyond the possibility of mistake or  deception, was their religion outraged,
their spiritual rulers,  not merely no longer at liberty to practise the duties of their  sacred
ministry, but hunted down and slaughtered or driven to  the mountains and the woods. They saw
that pagans were actually  ruling their holy isle, and changing a paradise of sanctity into
a pandemonium of brutal passion, presided over by a  superstitious and cruel idolatry. For
surely, although the Irish  chronicles fail to speak of it, the minstrels and historians  being
too full of their own misery to think of looking at the  pagan rites of their enemies - those
enemies worshipped Thor and  Odin and Frigga, and as surely did they detest the Church which
they were on a fair way to destroy utterly. This it was which  gave the Irish the courage of
despair. For this cause chiefly  did the whole island fly to arms, fall on their foes and bring
down on their heads a fearful retribution. This it was,  doubtless, which breathed into the
new monarch the energy which  he displayed on the field of Glas Linni; and when he ordered
the  barbarian, now a prisoner in his hands, to be drowned, it was  principally as a sign that
he detested in him the blasphemer and  the persecutor of God's church.

Thus did the first national misfortunes of this Celtic people  become the means of enkindling
in their hearts a greater love  for their religion, and a greater zeal for its preservation
in  their midst.

Ireland was again free; and, although we have no details  concerning the short period of prosperity
which followed the  overthrow of the tyranny we have touched upon, we have small  doubt that
the first object of the care of those who, under God,  had worked their own deliverance, was
to repair the ruins of the  desecrated sanctuaries and restore to religion the honor of  which
it had been stripped.

The Danes themselves came to see that they had acted rashly in  striving to deprive the Irish
of a religion which was so dear to  their hearts; they resolved on a change of policy, as they
were  still bent on taking possession of the island, which Mr. Worsaae  has told us they considered
the best country in existence.

They resolved, therefore, to act with more prudence, and to make  use of trade and the material
blessings which it confers, in  order to entice the Irish to their destruction, by allowing
the  Northmen to carry on business transactions with them and so  gradually to dwell among
them again. Father Keating tells the  story in his quaint and graphic style:

"The plan adopted by them on this occasion was to equip three  captains, sprung from the noblest
blood of Norway, and to send  them with a fleet to Ireland, for the object of obtaining some
station for purpose of trade. And with them they accordingly  embarked many tempting wares,
and many valuable jewels -- with  the design of presenting them to the men of Ireland, in the
hope  of thus securing their friendship; for they believed that they  might thus succeed in
surreptitiously fixing a grasp upon the  Irish soil, and might be enabled to oppress the Irish
people  again . . . . The three captains, therefore, coming from the  ports of Norway, landed
in Ireland with their followers, as if  for the purpose of demanding peace, and under the pretext
of  establishing a trade; and there, with the consent of the Irish,  who were given to peace,
they took possession of some sea-board  places, and built three cities thereon, to wit: Waterford,
Dublin, and Limerick."

We see, then, the Scandinavians abandoning their first project  of conquering the North to
fall on the South and confining  themselves to a small number of fortified sea-ports.

The first result of this policy was a firmer hold than ever on  Dublin, once already occupied
by them in 836. "Amlaf, or Olaf,  or Olaus, came from Norway to Ireland in 851, so that all
the  foreign tribes in the island submitted to him, and they  extracted rent from the Gaels."
- (Four Masters.)

From that time to the twelfth century Dublin became the chief  stronghold of the Scandinavians,
and no fewer than thirty-five  Ostmen, or Danish kings, governed it. They made it an important
emporium, and such it continued even after the Scandinavian  invasion had ceased. McFirbis
says that in his time - 1650 -  most of the merchants of Dublin were the descendants of the
Norwegian Irish king, Olaf Kwaran; and, to give a stronger  impulse to commerce, they were
the first to coin money in the  country.

The new Scandinavian policy carried out by Amlaf, who tried to  establish in Dublin the seat
of a kingdom which was to extend  over the whole island, resulted therefore only in the  establishment
of five or six petty principalities, wherein the  Northmen, for some time masters, were gradually
reduced to a  secondary position, and finally confined themselves to the  operations of commerce.

Since the attempt of Turgesius to subvert the religion of the  country, they never showed the
slightest inclination to repeat  it; hence they were left in quiet possession of the places
which  they occupied on the sea-board, and gradually came to embrace  Christianity themselves.

Little is known of the circumstances which attended this change  of religion on their part;
and it is certain that it did not  take place till late in the tenth century. Some pretend
that  Christianity was brought to them from their own country, where  it had already been planted
by several missionaries and bishops.  But it is known that St. Ancharius, the first apostle
of Denmark, could not establish himself permanently in that country, and  had to direct a few
missionaries from Hamburgh, where he fixed  his see. It is known, moreover, that Denmark was
only truly  converted by Canute in the eleventh century, after his conquest  of England. As
to Norway, the first attempt at its conversion by  King Haquin, who had become a Christian
at the court of  Athelstan in England, was a failure; and although his successor,  Harold,
appeared to succeed better for a time, paganism was  again reestablished, and flourished as
late as 995. It was, in  fact, Olaf the Holy who, coming from England, in 1017, with the  priests
Sigefried, Budolf, and Bernard, succeeded in introducing  Christianity permanently into Norway,
and he made more use of  the sword than of the word in his mission.

With regard to the conversion of the Danes in Ireland, it seems  that, after all, it was the
ever-present spectacle of the  workings of Christianity among the Irish which gradually opened
their eyes and ears. They came to love the country and the  people when they knew them thoroughly;
they respected them for  their bravery, which they had proved a thousand times; they felt 
attracted toward them on account of their geniality of  temperament and their warm social feelings;
even their defects  of character and their impulsive nature were pleasing to them.  They soon
sought their company and relationship; they began to  intermarry with them; and from this there
was but a step to  embracing their religion.

The Danes of Waterford, Cork, and Limerick were, however, the  last to abandon paganism, and
they seem not to have done so  until after Clontarf.

It is very remarkable that, during all those conflicts of the  Irish with the Danes, when the
Northmen strewed the island with  dead and ruins; when they seemed to be planting their domination
in the Orkneys, the Hebrides, and even the Isle of Man, on a  firm footing; when the seas around
England and Ireland swarmed  with pirates, and new expeditions started almost every spring
from the numerous harbors of the Baltic--the Irish colony of Dal  Riada in Scotland, which
was literally surrounded by the  invaders, succeeded in wresting North Britain from the Picts,
drove them into the Lowlands, and so completely rooted them out, that history never more speaks
of them, so that to this day the  historical problem stands unsolved-- What became of the Picts?--
various as are the explanations given of their disappearance.  And, what is more remarkable
still, is, that the Dal Riada  colony received constant help from their brothers in Erin, and
the first of the dynasty of Scottish kings, in the person of  Kenneth McAlpine, was actually
set on the throne of Scotland by  the arms of the Irish warriors, who, not satisfied apparently
with their constant conflicts with the Danes on their own soil,  passed over the Eastern Sea
to the neighboring coast of Great  Britain.

During the last forty years of the tenth century the Danes lived  in Ireland as though they
belonged to the soil. If they waged  war against some provincial king, they became the allies
of  others. When clan fought clan, Danes were often found on both  sides, or if on one only,
they soon joined the other. They had  been brought to embrace the manners of the natives, and
to adopt  many of their customs and habits. Yet there always remained a  lurking distrust,
more or less marked, between the two races;  and it was clear that Ireland could never be said
to have  escaped the danger of subjugation until the Scandinavian element  should be rendered
powerless.

This antipathy on both sides existed very early even in Church  affairs, the Christian natives
being looked upon with a jealous  eye by the Christian Danes; so that, toward the middle of
the  tenth century, the Danes of Dublin having succeeded in obtaining  a bishop of their own
nation, they sent him to England to be  consecrated by Lanfranc, the Archbishop of Canterbury,
and for a  long time the see of Dublin was placed under the jurisdiction of  Lanfranc's successors.

This grew into a serious difficulty for Ireland, as the capital  of Leinster began to be looked
upon as depending, at least  spiritually, on England; and later on, at the time of the  invasion
under Strongbow, the establishment of the English Pale  was considerably facilitated by such
an arrangement, to which  Rome had consented only for the spiritual advantage of her  Scandinavian
children in Ireland.

And the Irish were right in distrusting every thing foreign on  the soil, for, even after becoming
Christians, the Danes could  not resist the temptation of making a last effort for the  subjugation
of the country.

Hence arose their last general effort, which resulted in their  final overthrow at Clontarf.
It does not enter into our purpose  to give the story of that great event, known in all its
details  to the student of Irish history. It is not for us to trace the  various steps by which
Brian Boru mounted to supreme power, and  superseded Malachi, to relate the many partial victories
he had  already gained over the Northmen, nor to allude to his splendid  administration of
the government, and the happiness of the Irish  under his sway.

But it is our duty to point out the persevering attempts of the  Scandinavian race, not only
to keep its footing on Irish soil,  but to try anew to conquer what it had so often failed
to  conquer.  For, in describing their preparations for this last  attempt on a great scale,
we but add another proof of that Irish  steadfastness which we have already had so many occasions
to  admire.

In the chronicle of Adhemar, quoted by Lanigan from Labbe (Nova  Bibl., MSS., Tom. 2, p.177),
it is said that "the Northmen came  at that time to Ireland, with an immense fleet, conveying
even  their wives and children, with a view of extirpating the Irish  and occupying in their
stead that very wealthy country in which  there were twelve cities, with extensive bishopries
and a king."

Labbe thinks the Chronicle was written before the year 1031, so  that in his opinion the writer
was a contemporary of the facts  he relates.

The Irish Annals state, on their side, that "the foreigners were  gathered from all the west
of Europe, envoys having been  despatched into Norway, the Orkneys, the Baltic islands, so
that  a great number of Vikings came from all parts of Scandinavia,  with their families, for
the purpose of a permanent settlement."

Similar efforts were made about the same time by the Danes for  the lasting conquest of England,
which succeeded, Sweyn having  been proclaimed king in 1013, and Canute the Great becoming
its  undisputed ruler in 1017.

It is well known how the attempt failed in Erin, an army of  twenty-one thousand freebooters
being completely defeated near  Dublin by Brian and his sons.

From that time the existence of the Scandinavian race on the  Irish soil was a precarious one;
they were merely permitted to  occupy the sea-ports for the purpose of trade, and soon Irish
chieftains replaced their kings in Dublin, Limerick, Waterford,  and Cork.

The reader may be curious to learn, in conclusion, what signs  the Danes left of their long
sojourn on the island. If we listen  to mere popular rumor, the country is still full of the
ruins of  buildings occupied by them. The common people, in pointing out  to strangers the
remains of edifices, fortifications, raths,  duns, even round-towers and churches, either more
ancient or  more recent than the period of the Norse invasion, ascribe them  to the Danes.
It is clear that two hundred years of devastations, burnings, and horrors, have left a deep
impression on the mind  of the Irish; and, as they cannot suppose that such powerful  enemies
could have remained so long in their midst without  leaving wonderful traces of their passage,
they often attribute  to them the construction of the very edifices which they  destroyed.
The general accuracy of their traditions seems here  at fault. For there is no nation on earth
so exact as the Irish  in keeping the true remembrance of facts of their past history.  Not
long ago all Irish peasants were perfectly acquainted with  the whole history of their neighborhood;
they could tell what  clans had succeeded each other, the exact spots where such a  party had
been overthrown and such another victorious; every  village had its sure traditions printed
on the minds of its  inhabitants, and, by consulting the annals of the nation, the  coincidence
was often remarkable. How is it, therefore, that  they were so universally at fault with respect
to the Danes?

A partial explanation has been given which is in itself a proof  of the tenacity of Irish memory.
It is known that the Tuatha de  Danaan were not only skilful in medicine, in the working of
metals and in magic, but many buildings are generally attributed  to them by the best antiquarians;
among others, the great mound  of New Grange, on the banks of the Boyne, which is still in
perfect preservation, although opened and pillaged by the Danes-- a work reminding the beholder
of some Egyptian monument. The  coincidence of the name of the Tuatha de Danaan with that of
the  Danes may have induced many of the illiterate Irish to adopt the  universal error into
which they fell long ago, of attributing  most of the ancient monuments of their country to
the Danes.

The fact is, that the ruins of a few unimportant castles and  churches are all the landmarks
that remain of the Danish  domination in Ireland; and even these must have been the product
of the latter part of it.

But a more curious proof of the extirpation of every thing  Danish in the island is afforded
by Mr. Worsaae, whose object in  writing his account of the Danes and Norwegians in England,
Scotland, and Ireland, was to glorify his own country, Denmark.

He made a special study of the names of places and things, which  can be traced to the Scandinavians
respectively in the three  great divisions of the British Isles; and certainly the language
of a conquering people always shows itself in many words of the  conquered country, where the
subjugation has been of sufficient  duration.

In England, chiefly in the northern half of the kingdom, a very  great number of Danish names
appear and are still preserved in  the geography of the country. In Mr. Worsaae's book there
is a  tabular view of 1,373 Danish and Norwegian names of places in  England, and also a list
of 100 Danish words, selected from the  vulgar tongue, still in use among the people who dwell
north of  Watling Street.

In Scotland, likewise--in the Highlands and even in the Lowlands- -a considerable number of
names, or at least of terminations,  are still to be met in the geography of the country.

Three or four names of places around Dublin, and the  terminations of the names of the cities
of Waterford, Wexford,  Longford, and a few others, are all that Mr. Worsaae could find  in
Ireland. So that the language of the Irish, not to speak of  their government and laws, remained
proof against the long and  persevering efforts made by a great and warlike Northern race to
invade the country, and substitute its social life for that of  the natives.

As a whole, the Scandinavian irruptions were a complete failure.  They did not succeed in impressing
their own nationality or  individuality on any thing in the island, as they did in England,
Holland, and the north of France. The few drops of blood which  they left in the country have
been long ago absorbed in the  healthful current of the pure Celtic stream; even the language
of the people was not affected by them.

As for the social character of the nation, it was not touched by  this fearful aggression.
The customs of Scandinavia with respect  to government, society, domestic affairs, could not
influence  the Irish; they refused to admit the systematic thraldom which  the sternness of
the Northmen would engraft upon their character, and preserved their free manners in spite
of all adverse  attempts. In this country, Turgesius, Amlaf, Sitrick, and their  compeers,
failed as signally as other Scandinavian chieftains  succeeded in Britain and Normandy.

The municipal system, which has won so much praise, was  scornfully abandoned by the Irish
to the Danes of the sea port  towns, and they continued the agricultural life adapted to their
tastes. Towns and cities were not built in the interior till  much later by the English.

The clan territories continued to be governed as before. The  "Book of Rights" extended its
enactments even to the Danish Pale; and the Danes tried to convert it to their own advantage
by  introducing into it false chapters. How the poem of the Gaels of  Ath Cliath first found
a place in the "Book of Rights" is still  unknown to the best Irish antiquarians. John O'Donovan
concludes  from a verse in it that it was composed in the tenth century,  after the conversion
of the Danes of Dublin to Christianity. It  proves certainly that the Scandinavians in Ireland,
like the  English of the Pale later on, had become attached to Erin and  Erin's customs--had,
in fact, become. Irishmen, to all intents  and purposes. Not succeeding in making Northmen
of the Irish,  they succumbed to the gentle influence of Irish manners and  religion.

As for the commercial spirit, the Irish could not be caught by  it, even when confronted by
the spectacle of the wealth it  conferred on the "foreigners." It is stated openly in the annals
of the race that their greatest kings, both Malachi and Brian  Boru, did not utterly expel
the Danes from the country, in order  that they might profit by the Scandinavian traders, and
receive  through them the wines, silks, and other commodities, which the  latter imported from
the continent of Europe.

The same is true of the sea-faring life. The Irish could never  be induced to adopt it as a
profession, whatever may have been  their fondness for short voyages in their curraghs.

The only baneful effects which the Norse invasion exercised on  the Irish were: 1. The interruption
of studies on the large,  even universal, scale on which, they had previously been  conducted;
2. The breaking up of the former constitution of the  monarchy, by compelling the several clans
which were attacked by  the "foreigners" to act independently of the Ard-Righ, so that  from
that time irresponsible power was divided among a much  greater number of chieftains.

But these unfortunate effects of the Norse irruptions affected  in no wise the Irish character,
language, or institutions, which, in fact, finally triumphed over the character, language,
and  institutions of the pirates established among them for upward of  two centuries.

CHAPTER VI.

THE IRISH FREE CLANS AND ANGLO-NORMAN FEUDALISM.

The Danes were subdued, and the Irish at liberty to go on  weaving the threads of their history--though,
in consequence of  the local wars, they had lost the concentrating power of the Ard- Righ--when
treachery in their own ranks opened up the way for a  far more serious attack from another
branch of the great  Scandinavian family--the Anglo-Norman.

The manners of the people had been left unchanged; the clan  system had not been altered in
the least; it had stood the test  of previous revolutions; now it was to be confronted by a
new  system which had just conquered Europe, and spread itself round  about the apparently
doomed island. Of all places it had taken  deep root in England, where it was destined to survive
its  destruction elsewhere in the convulsions of our modern history.  That system, then in
full vigor, was feudalism.

In order rightly to understand and form a correct judgment on  the question, and its mighty
issues, we must state briefly what  the chief characteristics of feudalism were in those countries
where it flourished.

The feudal system proceeded on the principle that landed  property was all derived from the
king, as the captain of a  conquering army; that it had been distributed by him among his 
followers on certain conditions, and that it was liable to be  forfeited if those conditions
were not fulfilled.

The feudal system, moreover, politically considered, supposed  the principle that all civil
and political rights were derived  from the possession of land; that those who possessed no
land  could possess neither civil nor political rights--were, in fact,  not men, but villeins.

Consequently, it reduced nations to a small number of landowners, enjoying all the privileges
of citizenship; the masses,  deprived of all rights, having no share in the government, no
opportunity of rising in the social scale, were forever  condemned to villeinage or serfdom.

Feudalism, in our opinion, came first from Scandinavia. The  majority of writers derive it
from Germany. The question of its  origin is too extensive to be included within our present
limits, and indeed is unnecessary, as we deal principally with the fact  and not with its history.

When the sea-rover had conquered the boat of an enemy, or  destroyed a village, he distributed
the spoils among his crew.  Every thing was handed over to his followers in the form of a 
gift, and in return these latter were bound to serve him with  the greatest ardor and devotedness.
In course of time the idea  of settling down on some territory which they had devastated and
depopulated, presented itself to the minds of the rovers. The  sea-kong did by the land what
he had been accustomed to do by  the plunder: he parcelled it out among his faithful followers--
fideles--giving to each his share of the territory. This was  called feoh by the Anglo-Saxons,
who were the first to carry out  the system on British soil, as Dr. Lingard shows. Thus the
word  fief was coined, which in due time took its place in all the  languages of Europe.

The giver was considered the absolute owner of whatever he gave,  as is the commander of a
vessel at sea. It was a beneficium  conferred by him, to which certain indispensable conditions
were  attached. Military duty was the first, but not the only one of  these. Writers on feudalism
mention a great number, the  nonfulfilment of which incurred what was called forfeiture.

In countries where the pirates succeeded in establishing  themselves, all the native population
was either destroyed by  them, as Dudo tells us was the case in Normandy, or, as more  frequently
happened, the sword being unable to carry destruction  so far, the inhabitants who survived
were reduced to serfdom,  and compelled to till the soil for the conquerors; they were  thenceforth
called villeins or ascripti glebae. It is clear that  such only as possessed land could claim
civil and political  rights in the new states thus called into existence. Hence the  owning
of land under feudal tenure was the great and only  essential characteristic of mediaeval feudalism.

This system, which was first introduced into Britain by the  Anglo-Saxons, was brought to a
fixed and permanent state by the  Normans--followers of William the Conqueror; and, when the
time  came for treachery to summon the Norman knights to Irish soil,  the devoted island found
herself face to face with an iron  system which at that period crushed and weighed down all Europe.

The Normans had now been settled in England for a hundred years;  all the castles in the country
were occupied by Norman lords;  all bishopries filled by Norman bishops; all monasteries ruled
by Norman abbots. At the head of the state stood the king, at  that time Henry II. Here, more
than in any other country in  Europe, was the king the key-stone to the feudal masonry. Not
an  inch of ground in England was owned save under his authority, as  enjoying the supremum
dominium. All the land had been granted by  his predecessors as fiefs, with the right of reversion
to the  crown by forfeiture in case of the violation of feudal  obligations. Here was no allodial
property, no censitive  hereditary domain, as in the rest of, otherwise, feudal Europe. All
English lawyers were unanimous in the doctrine that the king  alone was the true master of
the territory; that tenure under  him carried with it all the conditions of feudal tenure,
and  that any deed or grant proceeding from his authority ought to be  so understood.

The south-western portion of Wales was occupied by Norman lords,  Flemings for the most part.
Two of these, Robert Fitzstephens  and Maurice Fitzgerald, sailed to the aid of the Irish King
of  Leinster. They were the first to land, arriving a full year  before Strongbow.

Strongbow came at last. The conditions agreed on beforehand  between himself and the Leinster
king were fulfilled. He was  married to the daughter of Dermod McMurrough, chief of Leinster,
acknowledged Righ Dahma, that is, successor to the crown, while  the Irish, accustomed for
ages to admire valor and bow  submissively to the law of conquest, admitted the claim. The
English adventurer they looked upon as one of themselves by  marriage. Election in such a case
was unnecessary, or rather,  understood, and Strongbow took the place which was his in their
eyes by right of his wife, of head under McMurrough of all the  clans of Leinster.

When, a little later, came Henry II. to be acknowledged by  Strongbow as his suzerain, and
to receive the homage of the  presumptive heir of Leinster, submission to him was, in the 
eyes of the Irish, merely a consequence of their own clan system. They understood the homage
rendered to him in a very different  sense from that attached to it by feudal nations; and
had they  had an inkling of the real intentions of the new comers, not one  of them would have
consented to live under and bow the neck to  such a yoke.

In fact, on the small territory where those great events were  enacted, two worlds, utterly
different from each other, stood  face to face. Cambrensis tells us that the English were struck
with wonder at what they saw. The imperialism of Rome had never  touched Ireland. The Danes,
opposed so strenuously from the  outset, and finally overcome, had never been able to introduce
there their restrictive measures of oppression. The English  found the natives in exactly the
same state as that in which  Julius Caesar found the Gauls twelve hundred years before,  except
as to religion--the race governed patriarchally by  chieftains allied to their subordinates
by blood relationship;  no unity in the government, no common flag, no private and  hereditary
property, nothing to bind the tribes together except  religion. It was not a nation properly,
but rather an  agglomeration of small nations often at war each with each, yet  all strongly
attached to Erin-- a mere name, including,  nevertherless, the dear idea of country --the chieftains
elective, bold, enterprising; the subordinates free, attached to  the chief as to a common
father, throwing themselves with ardor  into all his quarrels, ready to die for him at any
moment.  Around chief and clansmen circled a large number of brehons,  shanachies, poets, bards,
and harpers--poetry, music, and war  strangely blended together. The religion of Christ spread
over  all a halo of purity and holiness; large monasteries filled with  pious monks, and convents
of devout and pure virgins abounded;  bishops and priests in the churches chanting psalms,
each  accompanying himself with a many-stringed harp, gave forth sweet  harmony, unheard at
the time in any other part of the world.

A most important feature to be considered is their understanding  of property. Hereditary right
of land with respect to  individuals, and the transmission of property of any kind by  right
of primogeniture, were unknown among them. If a specified  amount of territory was assigned
to the chieftain, a smaller  portion to the bishop, the shanachy, head poet, and other civil
officers each in his degree, such property was attached to the  office and not to the man who
filled it, but passed to his  elected successor and not to his own children; while the great
bulk of the territory belonged to the clan in common. No one  possessed the right to alienate
a single rood of it, and, if at  times a portion was granted to exiles, to strangers, to a
contiguous clan, the whole tribe was consulted on the subject.  Over the common land large
herds of cattle roamed--the property  of individuals who could own nothing, except of a movable
nature, beyond their small wooden houses.

This state of things had existed, according to their annals, for  several thousand years. Their
ancestors had lived happily under  such social conditions, which they wished to abide in and
hand  down to their posterity.

Foreign trade was distasteful to them; in fact, they had no  inclination for commerce. Lucre
they despised, scarcely knowing  the use of money, which had been lately introduced among them.
Yet, being refined in their tastes, fond of ornament, of wine at  their feasts, loving to adorn
the persons of their wives and  daughters with silk and gems, they had allowed the Danes to
dwell in their seaports, to trade in those commodities, and to  import for their use what the
land did not produce.

Those seaport towns had been fortified by the Northmen on their  first victories when they
took possession of them. Throughout  the rest of the island, a fortress or a large town was
not to be  seen. The people, being all agriculturists or graziers, loved to  dwell in the country;
their houses were built of wattle and clay, yet comfortable and orderly.

The mansions of the chieftains were neither large architectural  piles, nor frowning fortresses.
They bore the name of raths when  used for dwellings; of duns when constructed with a view
to  resisting an attack. In both cases, they were, in part under  ground, in part above; the
whole circular in form, built  sometimes of large stones, oftener of walls of sodded clay.

Instead of covering their limbs with coats of mail, like the  warriors of mediaeval Europe,
they wore woollen garments even in  war, and for ornaments chains or plates of precious metal.
The  Norman invaders, clad in heavy mail, were surprised, therefore,  to find themselves face
to face with men in their estimation  unprotected and naked. More astonished were they still
at the  natural boldness and readiness of the Irish in speaking before  their chieftains and
princes, not understanding that all were of  the same blood and cognizant of the fact.

Still less could they understand the freedom and familiarity  existing between the Irish nobility
and the poorest of their  kinsmen, so different from the haughty bearing of an aristocracy
of foreign extraction to the serfs and villeins of a people they  had conquered.

The two nations now confronting each other had, therefore,  nothing in common, unless, perhaps,
an excessive pertinacity of  purpose. The new comers belonged to a stern, unyielding,  systematic
stock, which was destined to give to Europe that  great character so superior in our times
to that of southern or  eastern nations. The natives possessed that strong attachment to  their
time-honored customs, so peculiar to patriarchal tribes,  in whose nature traditions and social
habits are so strongly  intermingled, that they are ineradicable save by the utter  extirpation
of the people.

And now the characteristics of both races were to be brought out  in strong contrast by the
great question of property in the soil, which was at the bottom of the struggle between clanship
and  feudalism. The Irish, as we have seen, knew nothing of  individual property in land, nor
of tenure, nor of rent, much  less of forfeiture. They were often called upon by their  chieftains
to contribute to their support in ways not seldom  oppressive enough, but the contributions
were always in kind.

A new and very different system was to be attempted, to which  the Irish at first appeared
to consent, because they did not  understand it, attaching, as they did, their own ideas to
words,  which, in the mouths of the invaders, had a very different  meaning.

With the Irish "to do homage" meant to acknowledge the  superiority of another, either on account
of his lawful  authority or his success in war; and the consequences of this  act were, either
the fulfilment of the enactments contained in  the "Book of Rights," or submission to temporary
conditions  guaranteed by hostages. But that the person doing homage became  by that act the
liegeman of the suzerain for life and  hereditarily in his posterity, subject to be deprived
of all  privileges of citizenship, as well as to the possibility of  seeing all his lands forfeited,
besides many minor penalties  enjoined by the feudal code which often resolved itself into
mere might--such a meaning of the word homage could by no  possibility enter the mind of an
Irishman at that period.

Hence, when, after the atrocities committed by the first  invaders, who respected neither treaties
nor the dictates of  humanity, not even the sanctuary and the sacredness of religious  houses,
Henry II. came with an army, large and powerful for that  time, the Irish people and their
chieftains, hoping that he  would put an end to the crying tyranny of the Fitzstephens,  Fitzgeralds,
De Lacys, and others, went to meet him and  acknowledge his authority as head chieftain of
Leinster through  Strongbow, and, perhaps, as the monarch who should restore peace  and happiness
to the whole island. McCarthy, king of Desmond,  was the first Irish prince to pay homage to Henry.

While the king was spending the Christmas festivities in Dublin,  many other chieftains arrived;
among them O'Carrol of Oriel and  O'Rourke of Breffny. Roderic O'Connor of Connaught, till
then  acknowledged by many as monarch of Ireland, thought at first of  fighting, but, as was
his custom, he ended by a treaty, wherein,  it is said, he acknowledged Henry as his suzerain,
and thus  placed Ireland at his feet. Ulster alone had not seen the  invaders; but, as its
inhabitants did not protest with arms in  their hands, the Normans pretended that from that
moment they  were the rightful owners of the island.

Without a moment's delay they began to feudalize the country by  dividing the land and building
castles. These two operations,  which we now turn to, opened the eyes of the Irish to the 
deception which had been practised upon them, and were the real  origin of the momentous struggle
which is still being waged  today.

McCarthy, king of Desmond, had been the first to acknowledge the  authority of Henry II., yet
McCarthy's lands were among the  first, if not the first, bestowed by Henry on his minions.
The  grant may be seen in Ware, and it is worthy of perusal as a  sample of the many grants
which followed it, whereby Henry  attempted a total revolution in the tenure of land. The charter
giving Meath to De Lacy was the only one which by a clause  seemed to preserve the old customs
of the country as to  territory; and yet it was in Meath that the greatest atrocities  were
committed.

Yet one difficulty presented itself to the invaders: their  rights were only on paper, whereas
the Irish were still in  possession of the greatest part of the island, and once the real 
purpose of the Normans showed itself, they were no longer  disposed to submit to Henry or to
any of his appointed lords.  The territory had to be wrested from them by force of arms.

The English claimed the whole island as their own. They were, in  fact, masters only of the
portion occupied by their troops; the  remainder was, therefore, to be conquered. And if in
Desmond,  where the whole strength of the English first fell, they  possessed only a little
more than one-fourth of the soil, what  was the case in the rest of the island, the most of
which had  not yet seen them?

Long years of war would evidently be required to subdue it, and  the systematic mind of the
conquerors immediately set about  devising the best means for the attainment of their purpose.
The  lessons gathered from their continental experience suggested  these means immediately;
they saw that by covering the country  with feudal castles they could in the end conquer the
most  stubborn nation. A thorough revolution was intended. The two  systems were so entirely
antagonistic to each other that the  success of the Norman project involved a change of land
tenure,  laws, customs, dress--every thing. Even the music of the bards  was to be silenced,
the poetry of the files to be abolished, the  pedigrees of families to be discontinued, the
very games of the  people to be interrupted and forbidden. A vast number of castles  was necessary.
The project was a fearful one, cruel, barbarous,  worthy of pagan antiquity. It was undertaken
with a kind of  ferocious alacrity, and in a short time it appeared near  realization.  But
in the long run it failed, and four hundred  years later, under the eighth Henry, it was as
far from  completion as the day on which the second Henry left the island  in 1171.

To show the importance which the invaders attached to their  system, and the ardor with which
they set about putting it in  practice, we have only to extract a few passages from the old
annals of the islands; they are wonderfully expressive in their  simplicity:

"A.D. 1176. The English were driven from Limerick by Donnall  O'Brian. An English castle was
in process of erection at Kells."- -(Four Masters.)

"A.D. 1178. The English built and fortified a castle at Kenlis,  the key of those parts of
Meath, against the incursions of the  Ulster men."--(Ware's Antiquities.)

"A.D. 1180. Hugh De Lacy planted several colonies in Meath, and  fortified the country with
many castles, for the defence and  security of the English."--(Ibid.)

Such enumerations might be prolonged indefinitely; we conclude  with the following entry taken
from the Four Masters:

"A.D. 1186. Hugh De Lacy, the profaner and destroyer of many  churches, Lord of the English
of Meath (the Irish cannot call  him their lord), Breffni, and Oirghialla, he who had conquered
the greater part of Ireland for the English, and of whose  English castles all Meath, from
the Shannon to the sea, was full, after having finished the castle of Der Magh, set out  accompanied
by three Englishmen to visit it . . . . One of the  men of Tebtha, a youth named O'Miadhaigh,
approached him, and  with an axe severed his head from his body."

So wide-reaching and comprehensive was the plan of the invaders  from the beginning that they
felt confident of holding  possession of Ireland forever; and to effect this they must  certainly
have intended to destroy or drive out the native race,  or at best to make slaves of as many
of them as they chose to  keep. Thus they had prophecies manufactured for the purpose, and
Cambrensis, in his second book, chapter xxxiii., says  confidently: "Prophecies promise a full
victory to the English  people. . . . and that the island of Hibernia shall be subjected  and
fortified with castles--literally incastellated,  incastellatam--throughout from sea to sea."

Meanwhile, together with the building of castles, the partition  of the territory was being
carried out. The ten great lords,  among whom, according to Sir John Davies, Henry II. had
cantonized Ireland, saw the necessity of giving a part of their  large estates to their followers
that so they might occupy the  whole. McGeohegan compiles from Ware the best view of this very
interesting and comparatively unexplored subject. Curious  details are found there, showing
that, with the exception of  Ulster, not only the geography, but even the most minute  topography
of the country, had been well studied by those feudal  chieftains. Their characteristic love
for system runs all  through these transactions.

But the Irish had now seen enough. The whole country was in a  blaze. That kind of guerilla
war peculiar to the Celtic clans  began. The newly built castles were attacked and often captured
and destroyed. Strongbow was shut up and besieged in Water- ford, which fell into the hands
of the Danes. The latter sided  everywhere with the Irish. Limerick changed hands several times,
until Donnall O'Brian, who was left in possession, set fire to  it rather than see it fall
again into the hands of the invaders.

In Meath, where the numerous castles of De Lacy were situated, a  war to the knife was being
waged. O'Melachlin first tried  persuasion, but in conference with De Lacy he dared inveigh
loudly against the King of England, and, as his words must have  expressed the feelings of
the great majority of the people, we  give them:

"Notwithstanding his promise of supporting me in the possession  of my wealth and dignities,
he has sent robbers to invade my  patrimony. Avaricious and sparing of his own possessions,
he is  lavish of those of others, and thus enriches libertines and  profligates who have consumed
the patrimony of their fathers in  debauchery."

This manly protest was answered by the stroke of a dagger from  the hand of Raymond Legros,
and, after being beheaded,  0'Melachlin was buried feet upward as a rebel.

The monarch himself, Roderic O'Connor, finally appeared on the  scene, beat the English at
Thurles, and, marching into Meath,  laid the country waste.

Henry at last saw the necessity of adopting a milder policy, and  O'Connor dispatching to England
Catholicus O'Duffy, Archbishop  of Tuam, Lawrence O'Toole, of Dublin, and Concors, Abbot of
St.  Brendan, the Treaty of Windsor was concluded, which was really a  compromise, and yet
remained the true law of the land for four  hundred years. It may be seen in Rymer's "Foedera."

Sir John Davies justly remarks that by the treaty "the Irish  lords only promised to become
tributaries to King Henry II.; and  such as pay only tribute, though they are placed by Bodin
in the  first degree of subjection, yet are not properly subjects, but  sovereigns; for though
they be less and inferior to the princes  to whom they pay tribute, yet they hold all other
points of  sovereignty.

"And, therefore, though King Henry had the title of Sovereign  Lord over the Irish, yet did
he not put those things in  execution, which are the true marks of sovereignty.

"For to give laws unto a people, to institute magistrates and  officers over them, to punish
or pardon malefactors, to have the  sole authority of making war or peace, are the true marks
of  sovereignty, which King Henry II. had not in Ireland, but the  Irish lords did still retain
all those prerogatives to  themselves. For they governed their people by the Brehon law;  they
appointed their own magistrates and officers; . . . . they  made war and peace one with another,
without control; and this  they did not only during the reign of Henry II., but afterward 
in all times, even until the reign of Queen Elizabeth."

By an article of the treaty the Irish were allowed to live in  the Pale if they chose; and
even there they could enjoy their  customs in peace, as far as the letter of the law went.
Many  acts of Irish parliaments, it is true, were passed for the  purpose of depriving them
of that right, but without success.

Edmund Spenser, himself living in the Pale in the reign of  Elizabeth, speaks as an eye-witness
of "having seen their meeton  their ancient accustomed hills, where they debated and settled
matters according to the Brehon laws, between family and family,  township and township, assembling
in large numbers, and going,  according to their custom, all armed."

Stanihurst also, a contemporary of Spenser, had witnessed the  breaking up of those meetings,
and seen "the crowds in long  lines, coming down the hills in the wake of each chieftain, he
the proudest that could bring the largest company home to his  evening supper."

Here would be the proper place to speak of the Brehon law, which  remained thus in antagonism
to feudal customs for several  centuries. Up to recently, however, only vague notions could
be  given of that code. But at this moment antiquarians are revising  and studying it preparatory
to publishing the "Senchus Mor" in  which the Irish law is contained. It is known that it existed
previous to the conversion of Ireland to Christianity, and that  the laws of tanistry and of
gavelkind, the customs of gossipred  and of fostering, were of pagan origin. Patrick revised
the code  and corrected what could not coincide with the Christian  religion.  He also introduced
into the island many principles of  the Roman civil and canon law, which, without destroying
the  peculiarities natural to the Irish character, invested their  code with a more modern
and Christian aspect.

Edmund Campian, who afterward died a martyr under Elizabeth,  says, in his "Account of Ireland,"
written in May, 1571: "They  (the Irish) speak Latin like a vulgar language, learned in their
common schools of leechcraft and law, whereat they begin  children, and hold on sixteen or
twenty years, conning by rote  the aphorisms of Hippocrates, and the Civil Institutes, and
a  few other parings of these two faculties. I have seen them where  they kept school, ten
in some one chamber, grovelling upon  couches of straw, their books at their noses, themselves
lying  prostrate, and so to chant out their lessons by piecemeal, being  the most part lusty
fellows of twenty-five years and upward."

It was then after studies of from sixteen to twenty years that  the Brehon judge--the great
one of a whole sept, or the inferior  one of a single noble family--sat at certain appointed
times, in  the open air, on a hill generally, having for his seat clods of  earth, to decide
on the various subjects of difference among  neighbors.

Sir James Ware remarks that they were not acquainted with the  laws of England. He might have
better said, they preferred their  own, as not coming from cold and pagan Scandinavia, but
from the  warm south, the greatest of human law-givers, the jurisconsults  of Old Rome, and
the holy expounders of the laws of Christian  Rome.

What were those laws of England of which Ware speaks? There is  no question here of the common
law which came into use in times  posterior to Henry II., and which the English derived chiefly
from the Christian civil and canon law; but of those feudal  enactments, which the Anglo-Normans
endeavored to introduce into  Ireland, for the purpose of supplanting the old law and customs
of the natives.

There was, first, the law of territory, if we may so call it, by  which the supreme ruler became
really owner of the integral soil, which he distributed among his great vassals, to be  redistributed
by them among inferior vassals.

There was the law of primogeniture, which even to this day  obtains in England, and has brought
about in that country since  the days of William the Conqueror, and in Ireland since the  English
"plantations" of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, the state of things now so well known
to Europe.

There was also the long list of feudal conditions to be observed, by the fulfilment of which
the great barons and their followers  held their lands. For their tenure was liable to homage
and  fealty, as understood in the feudal sense, to wardships and  impediments to marriage,
to fines for alienations, to what  English legists call primer seizins, rents, reliefs, escheats,
and, finally, forfeitures; this last was at all times more  strictly observed in England than
in any other feudal country,  and by its enactments so many noble families have, in the course
of ages, been reduced to beggary, and their chiefs often brought  to the block. English history
is filled with such cases.

The law of wardship, by which no minor, heir, or heiress could  have other guardian than the
suzerain, and could not marry  without his consent, was at all times a great source of wealth
to the royal exchequer, and a correspondingly heavy tribute laid  on the vassal. So profitable
did the English kings find this law, that they speedily introduced it into Church affairs,
every  bishop's see or monastery being considered, at the death of the  incumbent, as a minor,
a ward, to be taken care of by the  sovereign, who enjoyed the revenues without bothering himself
particularly with the charges.

There were, finally, the hunting laws, which forbade any man to  hunt or hawk even on his own
estate.

Such were the laws of England, which Sir James Ware complains  the Irish did not know.

In signing the treaty of Windsor, the English king had  apparently recognized in the person
of Roderic O'Connor, and in  the Irish through him, the chief rights of sovereignty over the
whole island, except Leinster and, perhaps, Meath. But, at the  same time, a passage or two
in the treaty concealed a meaning  certainly unperceived by the Irish, but fraught with mischief
and misfortune to their country.

First, Roderic O'Connor acknowledged himself and his successors  as liegemen of the kings of
England; in a second place, the  privileges conceded to the Irish were to continue only so
long  as they remained faithful to their oath of allegiance. We see  here the same confusion
of ideas, which we remarked on the  meaning given to the word homage by either party. The natives
of  the island understood to be liegemen and under oath in a sense  conformable to their usual
ideas of subordination; the English  invested those words with the feudal meaning.

All the calamities of the four following centuries, and,  consequently, all the horrors of
the times subsequent to the  Protestant Reformation, were to be the penalty of that  misunderstanding.

Let us picture to ourselves two races of men so different as the  Milesian Celts on the one
side, and the Scandinavian Norman  French on the other, having concluded such a treaty as that
of  Windsor, each side resolved to push its own interpretation to  the bitter end.

The English are in possession of a territory clearly enough  defined, but they are ever on
the alert to seize any opportunity  of a real or pretended violation of it, in order to extend
their  limits and subjugate the whole island. Yet they are bound to  allow the Brehon Irish
to live in their midst, governed by their  own customs and laws. Moreover, they acknowledge
that the former  great Irish lords of the very country which they occupy are not  mere Irish,
but of noble blood; for, from the beginning, the  English recognized five families of the country,
known as the  "five bloods," as pure and noble, in theory at least.

The Irish without the Pale are acknowledged as perfectly  independent, completely beyond English
control, with their own  magistrates and laws, even that of war; subject only to tribute. 
But, at the same time, this independence is rendered absolutely  insecure by the imposition
of conditions, whose meaning is well  known and perfectly understood in all the countries conquered
by  the Scandinavians, but utterly beyond the comprehension of the  Irish.

The consequence is clear: war began with the conclusion of the  treaty--a war which raged for
four centuries, until a new and  more powerful incentive to slaughter and desolation showed
itself in the Reformation, ushered in by Henry VIII.

First came a general rebellion. This is the word used by Ware, when John, a boy of twelve years
of age, was dispatched by  his father Henry, with the title of Lord of Ireland, to receive
the submission of various Irish lords at Waterford, where he  landed. "The young English gentlemen,"
says Cambrensis, who was  a witness of the scene, "used the Irish chieftains with scorn,  because,"
as he says, "their demeanor was rude and barbarous." The Irish naturally resented this treatment
from a lad, as they  would have resented it from his father; and they retired in  wrath to
take up arms and raise the whole land to "rebellion."

This solemn protest was not without effect in Europe. At the  beginning of the reign of Richard
I., Clement III., on  appointing, by the king's request, William de Longchamps,  Bishop of
Ely, as his legate in England, Wales, and Ireland,  took good care to limit the authority of
this prelate to those  parts of Ireland which lay under the jurisdiction of the Earl  of Moreton--
that is, of John, brother to Richard. He had power  to exercise his jurisdiction "in Anglia,,
Wallia, et illis  Hiberniae partibus in quibus Joannes Moretonii Comes potestatem  habet et
dominium."--(Matth. Paris.) It would seem, then, that  Clement III. knew nothing of the bull
of Adrian IV.

The war, as we said, was incessant. England finally so despaired  of conquering the country,
that some lords of the court of Henry  VI. caused him to write letters to some of his "Irish
enemies,"  urging the latter to effect the conquest of the island in the  king's name. This
was assuredly a last resource, which history  has never recorded of any other nation warring
on a rival. But  even in this England failed. Those lords--the "Irish enemies" of  King Henry
VI.--sent his letters to the Duke of York, then Lord- Lieutenant, "and published to the world
the shame of England."-- (Sir John Davies.)

The result was that, at the end of the reign of Henry VI., the  Irish, in the words of the
same author, "became victorious over  all, without blood or sweat; only that little canton
of land,  called the English Pale, containing four small shires;  maintained yet a bordering
war with the Irish, and retained the  form of English government."

Feudalism was thus reduced in Ireland to the small territory  lying between the Boyne and the
Liffey, subject to the constant  annoyance of the O'Moores, O'Byrnes, and O'Cavanaghs. And
this  state of affairs continued until the period of the so-called  Reformation in England.

Ireland proved itself then the only spot in Western Europe where  feudal laws and feudal customs
could take no root. Through all  other nations of the Continent those laws spread by degrees,
from the countries invaded by the Northmen, into the most  distant parts, modified and mitigated
in some instances by the  innate power of resistance left by former institutions. In this 
small island alone, where clanship still held its own, feudalism  proved a complete failure.
We merely record a fact, suggestive,  indeed, of thought, which proves, if no more, at least
that the  Celtic nature is far more persevering and steady of purpose than  is generally supposed.

But a more interesting spectacle still awaits us--that of the  English themselves morally overcome
and won over by the example  of their antagonists, renouncing their feudal usages, and  adopting
manners which they had at first deemed rude and  barbarous.

The treaty of Windsor, which was subsequently confirmed by many  diplomatic enactments, obliged
King Henry III. of England to  address O'Brien of Thomond in the following words: "Rex regi
Thomond salutem." The same English monarch was compelled to give  O'Neill of Ulster the title
of Rex, after having used,  inadvertently perhaps, that of Regulus.--(Sir John Davies.) Both
O'Brien and O'Neill lived in the midst of a thickly populated  Irish district, with a few great
English lords shut up in their  castles on the borders of the respective territory of the clans.

The Norman lords in many parts of the country lived right in the  midst of an Irish population,
with its Brehon judges, shanachies, harpers, and other officers, attached to their customs
of  gossipred, fostering, tanistry, gavelkind, and other usages,  which the parliaments of
Drogheda, Kilkenny, Dublin, Trim, and  other places, were soon to declare lewd and barbarous.
The  question of the moment was: Which of the two systems, clanship  or feudalism, brought
thus into close contact and antagonism,  was to prevail? 

Ere long it began to appear that the aversion first felt by the  English lords at such strange
customs was not entirely  invincible, and many of them even went so far as to choose wives
from among the native families. In fact, there lay a great  example before their eyes from
the outset, in the marriage of  Strongbow with Eva, the daughter of McMurrough. Intermarriage
soon became the prevailing custom; so that the posterity of the  first invaders was, after
all, to have Celtic blood in its veins.

Hence, a distinction arose between the English by blood and the  English by birth. The first
had, indeed, an English name; but  they were born in the island, and soon came to be known
as  degenerate English.--That degeneracy was merely the moral effect  of constant intercourse
with the natives of their neighborhood. - -The others were continually shifting, being always
composed of  the latest new-comers from England.

It is something well worthy of remark that a residence of a  short duration sufficed to blend
in unison two natures so  opposed as the Irish and the English. The latter, not content  with
wedding Irish wives, sent their own children to be fostered  by their Irish friends; and the
children naturally came from the  nursery more Irish than their fathers. They objected no longer
to becoming gossips for each other at christenings, to adopt the  dress of their foster-parents,
whose language was in many cases  the only one which they brought from their foster-home.

Thus Ireland, even in districts which had been thoroughly  devastated by the first invaders,
became the old Ireland again;  and the song of the bard and the melody of the harper were heard
in the English castle as well as in the Irish rath.1 (1 The  process of gaining over an Englishman
to Irish manners is  admirably described in the "Moderate Cavalier," under Cromwell,  quoted
by Mr. J. P. Prendergast in his second edition of the  "Cromwellian Settlement," p. 263. If
this process were common  with the Protestant officers of Cromwell, how much more so with 
Catholic Anglo-Normans!)

The nationalization of their kin, which received a powerful  impetus from the fact that the
English who lived without the  Pale escaped feudal exactions and penalties from the  impossibility
of enforcing the feudal laws on Irish territory,  alarmed the Anglo-Normans by birth, in whose
hand rested the  engine of the government; and, looking around for a remedy, they  could discover
nothing better than acts of Parliament.

We have not been able to ascertain the precise epoch in which  the first Irish Parliament was
convened; indeed, to this day, it  seems a debated question. The general belief, however, ascribes
it to King John. The first mention of it by Ware is under the  year 1333, as late as Edward
III., more than one hundred and  fifty years after the Conquest. But the need of stringent
rules  to keep the Irish at bay, and prevent the English from  "degenerating," became so urgent
that, in 1367, the famous  Parliament met at Kilkenny, and enacted the bill known as the  "Statutes
of Kilkenny," in which the matter was fully elaborated, and a new order of things set on foot
in Ireland.

The Irish could recognize no other Parliament than their ancient  Feis; and, these having been
discontinued for several centuries,  they showed their appreciation of the new English institution
in  the manner described by Ware under the year 1413: "On the 11th  of the calends of February,
the morrow after St. Matthias day, a  Parliament began at Dublin, and continued for the space
of  fifteen days; in which time the Irish burned all that stood in  their way, as their usual
custom was in times of other  Parliaments."

The reader who is acquainted with the enactments which go by the  name of the "Statutes of
Kilkenny" will scarcely wonder at this  mode of proceeding.

Neither at that period, nor later on save once under Henry VIII., was the Irish race represented
in those assemblies. In the  reign of Edward III. no Irish native nor old English resident
assisted at the Parliament of Kilkenny, but only Englishmen newly arrived; for all its acts
were directed against the Irish  and the degenerate English--against the latter particularly.
How  the members composing these Parliaments were elected at that  time we do not know; but
they were not summoned from more than  twelve counties, which number, first established by
King John,  gradually dwindled, until, in the reign of Henry VII., it was  reduced to four,
so that the Irish Parliament came to be  composed of a few men, and those few representatives
of purely  English interests.

A true history of the times would demand an examination of the  various enactments made by
these so-called Irish Parliaments, as  setting forth more distinctly than any thing else could
do the  points at variance between the two nations. Our space, however,  and indeed our purpose,
forbids this. In order to put the reader  in possession of at least an idea of the difficulties
on either  side, we add a few extracts from the very famous "Statutes of  Kilkenny."

The preamble sets forth "that already the English in Ireland  were mere Irish in their language,
names, apparel, and their  manner of living, and had rejected the English laws and  submitted
to the Irish, with whom they had many marriages and  alliances, which tended to the utter ruin
and destruction of the  commonwealth." And then the Statutes go on to enact --we cull  from
various chapters: "The English cannot any more make peace  or war with the Irish without special
warrant; it is made penal  to the English to permit the Irish to send their cattle to graze
upon their land; the Irish could not be presented by the English  to any ecclesiastical benefice;
they--the Irish--could not be  received into any monasteries or religious houses; the English
could not entertain any of their bards, or poets, or shanachies, " etc.

This extraordinary legislation proves beyond any amount of facts  to what degree the posterity
of the first Norman invaders of  Ireland had adopted Irish customs, and made themselves one
with  the natives.

The Irish, therefore, had, in this instance, morally conquered  their enemies, and feudalism
was defeated. Another example was  given of the invariable invasions of the island. The enemy,
however successful at the beginning, was compelled finally to  give way to the force of resistance
in this people; and the time- honored customs of an ancient race survived all attempts at 
violent foreign innovations. The posterity of those proud nobles, who, with Giraldus Cambrensis,
had found nothing but what was  contemptible in this nation, so strange to their eyes, who
looked upon them as an easy victim to be despoiled of their land, and that land to be occupied
by them, that posterity adopted,  within, comparatively speaking, a few years, the life and
manners of the mere Irish in their entirety. Feudalism they  renounced for the clan. Each of
the great English families that  first landed in the island had formed a new sept, and the
clans  of the Geraldines, De Courcys, and others, were admitted into  full copartnership with
the old Milesian septs. This the two  great families of the Burkes in Connaught called their
chiefs  McWilllams Either and McWilliams Oughter. The Berminghams bad  become McYoris; the
Dixons, McJordans; the Mangles, McCostellos.  Other old English families were called McHubbard,
McDavid, etc.;  one of the Geraldine septs was known as McMorice, another as  McGibbon; the
chief of Dunboyne's house became McPheris.

Meanwhile, "it was manifest," says Sir John Davies, "that those  who had the government of
Ireland under the crown of England  intended to make a perpetual separation and enmity between
the  English settled in Ireland and the Irish, in the expectation  that the English should
in the end root out the Irish."

There is no doubt that, if these laws of Kilkenny could have  been enforced and carried out,
as they were meant to be, the  effect hoped for by these legislators might have been the  natural
result. Yet even much later on, at a period, too, when  the English power was considerably
increased, under Henry VIII.,  a very curious discussion of this possibility, which took place
at the time, did not by any means promise an easy realization.  The following passage of the
"State Papers," under the great  Tudor, contains a rather sensible view of the subject, and
is  not so sanguine of the success of the hopes cherished by the  attorney-general of James I.:

"The lande is very large--by estimation as large as Englande--so  that, to enhabit the whole
with new inhabiters, the number would  be so great that there is no prince christened that
commodiously  might spare so many subjects to depart out of his regions. . . .  But to enterprise
the whole extirpation and totall destruction  of all the Irishmen of the lande, it would be
a marvellous and  sumptuous charge and great difficulty, considering both the lack  of enhabitors,
and the great hardness and misery these Irishmen  can endure, both of hunger, colde, and thirst,
and evill lodging, more than the inhabitants of any other lande." 

There were, therefore, evidently difficulties in the way; yet it  is certain that the question
of the total extirpation of the  Irish has been entertained for centuries by a class of English
statesmen, and confidently looked for by the English nation. Sir  John Davies, as we see, attributes
no other object to the  Statutes of Kilkenny.

But could those statutes be enforced? were they ever enforced? The same writer pretends that
they were for "several years;" but  the sequel proves that they were not. The reason which
he  assigns for their execution--that for a certain time after that  Parliament there was peace
in the island--leads us to believe  the contrary; for if, as he himself justly remarks before,
the  intention of the legislators was to create a perpetual  separation and enmity between
the two races, the promulgation  and strict execution of those statutes would have immediately
enkindled a war which could have ended only with the total  extirpation of one race or the other.

And the further fact that it was thought necessary to reenact  those odious laws frequently
in subsequent Irish Parliaments  proves that they were not carried into execution, since new
legislation on the subject was demanded.

It is true that events, transmitted to us either through the  Irish annals or the English chronicles,
show that several  attempts were made to enforce those acts of Kilkenny, chiefly  against the
Fitz-Thomases or Geraldines of Desmond, who  pretended, even after their enactment, to be as
independent of  them as before, and refused to attend the Parliament when  convoked, claiming
the strange privilege "that the Earls of  Desmond should never come to any Parliament or Grand
Council, or  within any walled town, but at their will or pleasure." And the  Desmonds continued
in their persistent opposition to the English  laws until the reign of Elizabeth.

But it was against Churchmen chiefly that they were carried out  in full; for we occasionally
meet in the annals of the country  with instances where some English prelate in Ireland had
been  prosecuted for having conferred orders on mere Irishmen, and  that some Norman abbots
had been deposed for having received  mere Irishmen as monks into their monasteries.

With the exception of a few cases of this kind, no proof can be  furnished that any material
change was brought about in the  relations of the old English settlers with their Irish neighbors.
In fact, matters progressed so favorably in this friendly  direction, that at length the descendants
of Strongbow and his  followers became, as is well known, "Hibernis Hiberniores," and  the
judges sent from England could hold their circuit only in  the four counties between the Liffey
and the Boyne; and the name  given to the majority of the old English families was "English
rebels," while the natives were called "Irish enemies."

Sir John Davies himself is forced to admit it: "When the civil  government grew so weak and
so loose that the English lords  would not suffer the English laws to be executed within their
territories and seigniories, but in place thereof both they and  their people embraced the
Irish customs, then the state of  things, like a game at Irish, was so turned about, that the
English, who hoped to make a perfect conquest of the Irish, were  by them perfectly and absolutely
conquered, because Victi  victoribus leges dedere."

The truth could not be expressed in more explicit terms. Yet all  has not been said. The same
persevering character, making  headway against apparently insurmountable obstacles, shows 
itself conspicuously in the Irish, in the preservation of their  land, which, after all, was
the great object of contention  between the two races.

The first Anglo-Norman invaders, including Henry II himself, had  no other object in view than
gradually to occupy the whole  territory, subject it to the feudal laws, give to Englishmen
the  position of feudal lords, and reduce the Irish to that of  villeins, if they could not
succeed in rooting them out.

A few years later, by the Treaty of Windsor, the king seemed to  confine his pretensions to
Leinster, and perhaps Meath, and  expressly allowed the natives to keep their lands in the
other  districts of the island. Yet none of his former grants, by which  "he had cantonned
the whole island between ten Englishmen," were  recalled; the continued as part of and means
to shape the policy  of the invaders, and subsequent Parliaments always supposed the  validity
of those former grants made to Strongbow and his  followers.

It is true that those posterior Acts of Parliament did not  merely rely for their strength
on the first documents, but on  the pretence that the Irish chieftains and people outside of
Leinster and Meath had justly forfeited their estates by not  fulfilling the conditions virtually
contained in the Windsor  Treaty, in which they had professed homage and submission to the
English king. It is clear that, lawfully or unlawfully, the  Anglo-Normans were determined
to gain possession, sooner or  later, of the whole island.

To secure their end, they declared that the natives would not be  subject to the English laws,
but retain their Brehon laws, which  in their eyes were no laws at all, and which the Parliament
of  Kilkenny had declared to be "lewd customs." Henceforth, then,  the natives were out of
the pale of the law, could not claim its  protection, but became subject to the crown of England,
without  political, civil, or even human rights.

They were soon, by reason of the constant border wars all around  the Pale, declared "alien
and enemies." And these expressions  became, in the eyes of the English lawyers, identical
with the  Irish race and the Irish nature; so that at all times, peace or  war, even when the
Irish fought in the English ranks, aiding the  Plantagenets in their furious contests with
the Scotch or the  French, they were still "Irish enemies;" "aliens" unworthy human  rights,
villeins in whose veins no noble blood could flow, with  the exception of five families.

All the rest were not only ignoble, but not even men; nothing  but mere Irish, whom any one
might kill, even though serving  under the English crown, at a risk of being fined five marks,
to  be paid to the treasury of the King of England, for having  deprived his majesty of a serviceable
tool.

This (to modern eyes) astounding social state demands a closer  examination in order to see
if, at least, it had the merit of  finally procuring for the English the possession of the
land  they coveted.

We find first that Henry II., John, and Henry III., would seem  on several occasions to have
extended the laws of England all  over the island. But all English legists will tell us that
those  laws were only for the inhabitants of English blood. The mere  Irish were always reputed
aliens, or, rather, enemies to the  crown, so that it was, " by actual fact, often adjudged
no  felony to kill a mere Irish in time of peace," as Sir John  Davies expressly points out.

Five families alone were excepted from the general category and  acknowledged to be of noble
blood--the O'Neills of Ulster, the  O'Melachlins of Meath, the O'Connors of Connaught, the
O'Briens  of Munster, and the McMurroughs of Leinster.

Those five families, numerous certainly, but forming only as  many septs, were, or appeared
to be, acknowledged as having a  right to their lands, and as able to bring or defend actions
at  law. We say, appeared to be, because they found themselves on so  many occasions ranked
as mere Irish, that individuals of those  septs, induced by sheer necessity, were often driven,
in spite  of an almost invincible repugnance, to apply for and accept  special charters of
naturalization from the English kings. Thus  in the reign of Edward IV., O'Neill, on the occasion
of his  marriage with a daughter of the house of Kildare, was made an  English citizen by special
act of Parliament.

In reality then, even the most illustrious members of the "five  bloods" were scarcely considered
as enjoying the full rights of  the lowest English vassals, although their ancestors had been
acknowledged kings by former Anglo-Norman monarchs in public  documents: "Rex Henricus regi
O'Neill," etc.

But if there was some shadow of doubt with regard to the  political and social rights of those
great families, such doubt  did not exist for the remainder of the Irish race. They were  absolutely
without rights. Depriving them of their lands,  pillaging their houses, devastating their farms,
outraging their  wives and daughters, killing them, could not subject the guilty  to any civil
or criminal action at law. In fact, as we have  shown, such acts were in accordance with the
spirit, even with  the letter of the law, so that the criminal, as we should  consider him,
had but to plead that the man whom he had robbed  or killed was a mere Irishman, and the proceedings
were  immediately stopped, if this all-important fact were proved; and  in case of homicide
the murderer escaped by the payment of the  fine of five marks to the treasury.

To modern, even to English ears, all this may sound incredible.  Many striking examples of
the truth of it might be produced.  They are to be found in all works which treat of the subject.
Sir John Davies, that great Irish hater, evidently takes a  genuine delight in depicting several
such instances with all  their aggravating details, scarcely expecting that every word he 
wrote would serve to brand forever with shame Anglo-Norman  England.

Under such legislation it was clear that life on the borders of  the Pale was not only insecure,
but that the soil would remain  in the grasp of the strongest. Any Anglo-Norman only required
the power in order to take possession of the land of his  neighbor.

But it is not in man's nature to submit to such galling thraldom  as this, without at least
an attempt at retaliation. Least of  all was it the nature of such a people to submit to such
measures--a nation, the most ancient in Europe, dating their  ownership of the soil as far
back as man's memory could go,  civilized before Scandinavia became a nest of pirates,  Christianized
from the fifth century, and the spreader of  literature, civilization, and the holy faith of
Christ through  England, Scotland, Germany, France, and Northern Italy.

If we have dwelt a little, and only a little, upon the intensity  of the contest waged for
four hundred years previous to the  added atrocities introduced by the Reformation, we have
done so  advisedly, since it has become a fashion of late to throw a  gloss over the past,
to ignore it, to let the dead bury their  dead--all which would be very well, could it be done,
and could  writers forget to stamp the Irish as unsociable, barbarous, and  bloodthirsty, because
with arms in their hands, and a fire  ardent and sacred in their souls, they strove again and
again to  reconquer the territory which had been won from them by fraud,  and because they
thought it fair to kill in open fight the men  who avowed that they could kill them even in
peace at a penalty  of five marks.

The contest, therefore, never ceased; how could it ? But, in that endless conflict between
the two races, the loss of  territory leaned rather to the English side. If, with the help
of their castles, better discipline, and arms, the English at  first gained on the natives
and extended their possessions  beyond the Pale, a reaction soon set in--the Irish had their
day  of revenge, and entered again into possession of the land of  which they had been robbed.
In order to repair their losses, the  Anglo-Normans had recourse to acts of Parliament, which
could  bind not only the English of the Pale, but also those of other  districts, who, enjoying
the privileges of English law, were  likewise bound by its provisions.

In order rightly to understand the need and purposes of those  enactments, we must return a
moment to the days of the conquest.

The case of Strongbow will illustrate many others. He married  Eva, the daughter of McMurrough,
and thus allied himself to the  best families of Leinster. On the death of his father-in-law,
he  received the whole kingdom as his inheritance.  The greater part  of his dominions, which
he either would not or could not govern  himself, he was compelled to distribute, in the usual
style,  among his followers. He distributed large estates as fiefs  among those who had followed
his fortunes, but he could not  forget his Irish relatives, to whom he had become strongly
attached. He secured, therefore, to many Irish families the  territory which was formerly theirs,
and many of his English  adherents, who, like himself, had married daughters of the soil, 
did the same in their more limited territories. This explains  fully why Irish families remained
in Leinster after the  settlement of the Anglo-Normans there, who established their  Pale in
it, as also why they continued to possess their lands in  the midst of the English as they
had formerly done in the midst  of the Danes.

The same thing took place in the kingdom of Cork, on the borders  of Connaught, and around
the seaports of Ulster, wherever the  English had established themselves and erected castles
and  fortifications.

But, over and above the Irish families, which, by their alliance  by marriage and fosterage
with the English, retained their lands  and gradually increased them, many others, natives
of the soil,  reentered into possession of their former territory by the  withdrawal of the
Anglo-Norman holders of fiefs. Constant border  wars, the necessary consequence of the English
policy, could not  but discourage in course of time many Englishmen, who, owning  large possessions
also in England and Wales, preferred to return  to their own country rather than remain with
their wives and  children in a constant state of alarm, compelled to reside  within their castles,
in dread of an attack at any moment from  their Irish neighbors.

Moreover, the vast majority of the Irish, who did not enjoy the  benefit of these special privileges,
who, deprived of their  lands at the first invasion, had remained really outlaws, and  never
entered into matrimonial or social alliance with their  enemies, these men could not consent
to starve and perish on  their own soil, in the island which they loved and from which  they
could not--had they so chosen--escape by emigration. One  resource remained to them, and they
grasped at it. They had  their own mountain fastnesses and bogs to fly to, and from those 
recesses they could harass the invader, and inch by inch win  back their lawful inheritance.

They were often even encouraged in their attacks and  depredations by the English of the Pale
and out of it, who,  unwilling longer to submit to the grinding feudal laws and  exactions,
could prevent the English judges, sheriffs,  escheators, and other king's officers from executing
the law  against them, and thus they held out in their mountains, bogs,  and rocky crags, in
the midst of the invaders of their soil.

A necessity arose then, on the part of the English rulers, of  adopting measures calculated
to prevent a further acquisition of  territory by the Irish, if not to extend the English settlements.
They saw no other remedy than acts of Parliament, which they  thought would at least prevent
the subjects of English blood  from assisting the Irish to reenter into possession, as was
then  being done on so extensive a scale.

To effect this they revived the former statutes by which the  Irish were placed without the
protection of the law, were  declared aliens and enemies, and were consequently denied the
right of bringing actions in any of the English courts for  trespasses on their lands, or for
violence done to their persons.

They soon advanced a step beyond this. The Irish were forbidden  to purchase land, though the
English were at liberty to occupy  by force the landed property of the Irish, whenever they
were  strong enough to do so. An Irishman could acquire neither by  gift nor purchase a rood
of land which was the property of an  Englishman. Thus, in every charter afterward granted
to the few  Irishmen who applied for them, it was expressly stated that they  could purchase
land for themselves and their heirs, which,  without this special provision, they could not
do; while for an  Englishman to dispose of his landed property by will, gift, or  sale to an
Irishman, was equivalent to forfeiting his estate to  the crown. The officers of the exchequer
were directed by those  acts of Parliament to hold inquisitions for the purpose of  obtaining
returns of such deeds of conveyance, in order to  enrich the king's treasury by confiscations
and forfeitures; and  the statute-rolls, preserved to this day in Dublin and London,  show
that such prosecutions often took place, with the  invariable result of forfeiture.

The decision of the courts was always in favor of the crown,  even in cases where the deed
of conveyance or will was of no  benefit to the person in whose favor it was drawn, but simply
a  trust for a third person of English race. And the great number  of cases in which the inquisitions
were set aside, as appears  from the Parliament-rolls, for the finding having been malicious
and untrue--the parties complained of not being Irish but  English-- prove what we allege,
namely, that an Irishman could  not take land by conveyance from an Englishman.

Yet, as Mr. Prendergast justly says: "Notwithstanding these  prohibitions and laws of the Irish
Parliament, the Irish grew  and increased upon the English, and the Celtic customs  overspread
the feudal, until at length the administration of the  feudal law was confined to little more
than the few counties  lying within the line of the Liffey and the Boyne."

Let us now glance, in conclusion, at the result of more than  four centuries of feudal oppression.

Ireland rejected feudalism from the beginning, and this at a  time when Europe had been compelled
to adopt it, more or less,  throughout.

The distinction between lords and villeins, so marked in all  other countries, remained at
the end as it was at the beginning  of the contest, a thing unknown in the island. Even in
the Pale,  the presence of the O'Moores, O'Byrnes, O'Kavanaghs, and other  septs, protested
against and openly denied, from moor and glen  and mountain fastness, that outrage on humanity,
which bestows  on the few every thing meant for all. The Brehon law was in full  force all
over the island, and if the Irish allowed the English  judges to ride on their circuits within
the four counties, it  was on the full understanding that they would administer their  justice
only to English subjects, and levy their feudal dues,  and pronounce their forfeitures and
confiscations on such only  as acknowledged the king's right on the premises.  The laws  enacted
in the pretended Irish Parliament were only for such as  called themselves English by birth;
for even the English by  blood, whose ancestors had long resided on the island,  frequently
refused to submit to the laws of Parliament, where  they would not sit themselves, although
possessing the right to  do so.

In vain was the threat of compulsion held up again and again  before the eyes of the great
lords of Desmond, Thomond, and  Connaught. If they chose, they went; if they chose not, they
remained at home; and obeyed or disobeyed at will the laws  themselves, according as they were
able or unable to set them at  defiance.

The castles which had been built all over the country by the  first invaders, as a means of
awing into subjection the  surrounding districts, were at the beginning of the fifteenth  century
no longer feudal castles. They had either been  destroyed and levelled to the ground by the
Irish, or they were  occupied by Irish chieftains; or, stranger still, if their  holders were
English lords, they were of those who had been won  over to Irish manners. In their halls all
the old customs of  Erin were preserved. One saw therein groups of shanachies, and  harpers,
and Brehon lawyers, all conversing with their chieftain  in the primitive language of the country.
Hence were they called  degenerate by the "foreigners" living in Dublin Castle. The  mansions
of the Desmonds, of the Burgos, of the Ormonds, were  the headquarters of their respective
clans, not the inaccessible  fortresses of steel-clad warriors, who alone were possessed of
social and civil rights. If the master of the household held  sometimes the title of earl,
or count, or baron, he was careful  never to use it before his retainers, whom he called his
clansmen. When he went to Dublin or to London, he donned it with  the dress of a knight or
a great feudal lord; on his return home  he threw it aside, resumed the cloak of the country,
and was  Irish again.

The subject of feudal titles in Ireland has not been  sufficiently studied and elucidated.
A clearer light thrown on  this question would, we have no doubt, show more conclusively  than
long discussions with what stubbornness the Irish refused  to submit to the reality of feudalism,
even when consenting to  admit its presence and phraseology. It is a fact not  sufficiently
dwelt upon, that the few Irishmen, who subsequently  consented to receive English titles from
the king, were regarded  by their countrymen with greater abhorrence than the English  themselves,
though in most cases the titles were empty ones,  which affected nothing in their mode of life.
Yet were they  looked upon as apostates to their nation, and after the  Reformation such a
step was often the first to apostasy of  religion, the deepest stain on an Irish name.

Feudalism had also its mode of taxation which failed with the  rest in Ireland.

In feudal countries the lord imposed no tax on his villeins;  these were mere chattels, ascripti
gleboe, who tilled the land  for their masters, and, as good serfs, could own nothing but the
few utensils of their miserable hovels.  They were just allowed  what sufficed to support their
own life and that of their  families, and consequently they could bear no additional tax. 
But, in the complicated state of society brought about by  feudalism, the inferior lord was
taxed by his superior, a system  that ran down the whole feudal scale, and it would take a
lawyer  to explain aids, talliages, wardships, fines for alienation,  seizins, rents, escheats,
and finally forfeiture, the heaviest  and most common of all in England.

The Irish fought valiantly against the imposition of those  burdens, and aided the English
settled among them to repudiate  them all in course of time.

It must be said, however, that they did not succeed in  preventing their own taxes, according
to the Book of Rights,  from becoming heavier under the ingenuity of the English who  were
established among them and admitted to all the rights of  clanship.  We see by documents which
have been better studied of  late, that the great Anglo-Irish lords had succeeded in  increasing
the burdens in the shape of exactions, which were  never complained of by the Irish.

On this subject Dr. O'Donovan, in the preface to his edition of  the "Book of Rights," is worthy
of perusal.

But it is chiefly in the very essence of feudalism that the  failure of the Anglo-Normans was
most signal. Feudalism really  consisted in the status given to the land, the possession of
which determined and gave all rights, so that, according to it,  man was made for the land
rather than the land for man. He was  placed on the land with the beasts of the field as far
as  tillage and production went, until the system should round to  perfection and finally bring
to the surface the new principles  of social economy, according to which the greater the number
of  cattle and the fewer the number of men, the more prosperous and  happy might the country
be said to be.

The Irish staked their existence against those principles, and  won. So complete was their
victory that the feudal barons who  first came among them finally yielded to clanship, became
the  chiefs of new clans, and opened their territories to all who  chose to send their horses
and kine to graze in the chief's  domains. In vain did Irish Parliaments issue writs of forfeiture
against the English lords who acted thus, for between the law  and its execution the clans
intervened, and no sheriff or judge  could step beyond the bounds of the four counties of the
Pale to  enforce those acts.

It is told of one of the Irish chieftains that on receiving  intimation from a high English
official of a sheriff's visit on  the next breach of some new law or ordinance, for the safety
of  which sheriff he would be held responsible, he replied: "You  will do well to let me know
at the same time what will be the  amount of his eric, in case of his murder, that I may  beforehand
assess it on the clan."

This story may tend better than any thing else to give a clear  reason for the failure of feudalism
in Ireland.

CHAPTER VII.

IRELAND SEPARATED FROM EUROPE.-A TRIPLE EPISODE.

While the struggle described in the last chapter was raging,  Ireland could have little or
no intercourse with the rest of  Europe. Heaven alone was witness of the heroism displayed
by the  free clans wrestling with feudal England. It was only during the  internecine wars
of the Roses that Erin enjoyed a respite, and  then we read that Margaret of Offaly summoned
to peaceful  contest the bards of the island, while the shrines of Rome and  Compostella were
thronged with pilgrims, chiefs, and princes,  "paying their vows of faith from the Western Isle."

In the mean time Christendom had been witness of mighty events  in which Ireland could take
no part. The enthusiastic impulse  which gave birth to the Crusades, the uprising of the communes
against feudal thraldom, the mental activity of numerous  universities, starting each day into
life, form, among other  things, the three great progressive waves in the moving ocean of 
the time:

I. When Europe in phalanx of steel hurled itself upon Asia and  saved Christendom from the
yoke of Islam, when the Japhetic race  by a mighty effort asserted its right not merely to
existence,  but to a preponderance in the affairs of the world, Ireland, the  nation Christian
of Christians, had not a name among men. It was  supposed to be a dependency of England, and
the envoys sent  abroad to all parts by the Holy See to preach the Crusades,  never touched
her shores to deliver the cross to her warriors.  The most chivalrous nation of Christendom
was altogether  forgotten, and in its ecclesiastical annals no mention is made  of the Crusades
even by name.

The holy wars, moreover, were set on foot and carried on by the  feudal chivalry of Europe,
and in fact, wherever the Europeans  established their power in the East, that power took the
shape  of feudalism. But Ireland had rejected this system, and  consequently her sons could
find no place in the ranks of the  knights of Flaners, Normandy, Aquitaine, and England. Their
chivalry was of another stamp, and was employed at the time in  wresting their social state
and territory from the grasp of  ruthless invaders.

Hence, not even St. Bernard, the ardent friend of St. Malachi,  remembered them, when journeying
through Europe to distribute  the Cross to whole armies of warriors.  Not only did he fail
to  cross the Channel for the purpose of rousing the Christian  enthusiasm of a people ever
ready to hearken to a call to arms  when a noble cause was at stake; he did not think even
of  writing a single letter to any bishop or abbot in Ireland,  asking them to preach the holy
war in his name.

Thus Ireland failed to participate in any of the benefits which  accrued to the European nations
from the Crusades, as she failed  likewise to participate in results less beneficial which
also  accrued from that powerful agitation.

Among such results is one which has not met with all the  attention it deserves.  Historians
speak at length of the many  and wide-spread heresies which infected Europe during the middle
ages; but their Eastern origin has not been thoroughly  investigated, and we have no doubt
that, if it had been, many of  them would be found to have come with a returning wave of the
Crusades.

All these errors bear at the outset a very Oriental appearance.  Paulicians, Petrobrusians,
Albigensians, and kindred sects,  all started from the principle of dualism, and even at the
time were openly accused of Manicheistic ideas. They all  involved more or less immoral principles,
and rejected, or at  least strove to weaken, the commonly-received ideas upon which  society,
civil and religious, is founded. Had they succeeded in  spreading their errors through Europe,
it is possible that the  invasion would have been more fatal in its consequences than  that
of Islamism itself.  And, even in their failure, they left  among European societies the germ
of secret associations which  have existed from that time down, and which in our days have
burst forth undisguised to terrify nations, and cause them to  dread the coming of the last days.

To an attentive observer it is clear that the heresies of the  twelfth, thirteenth, and fourteenth
centuries resemble more the  errors of our days than the Protestantism which intervened.  Luther's
first principles, if carried to their legitimate  conclusion, would have inaugurated the socialism
and communism  of modern times; but he shrank from the consequences of his own  doctrines,
and the necessity of his standing well with the  German princes caused him, during the War
of the Peasants,  almost to retract his first utterances and take his stand  midway between
Catholic principles and the thorough nihilism of  later times. It is known that in the after-part
of his life he  endeavored to repair the ruins of every dogma, social and  religious, which
he at first had tried to subvert and destroy.

The Manicheism of the middle ages was certainly not of so  scientific and elaborate a nature
as modern socialism; but it  would have been productive of like evil results to society had
it not been crushed down by the united power of the Church and  the state. If it had been successful,
it is impossible to  imagine what would have become of Europe.

Of its Eastern origin historians say little. We know, however,  that, after a residence in
the East, the most pious Christians  grew lukewarm and less firm in their opposition to the
dangerous  errors then prevalent in Asia. Tournefort remarked this in his  own time, during
the reign of Louis XIV.

It is known also that the posterity of the first crusaders in  Palestine formed a hybrid race,
which, weakened by the influence  of the luxurious habits of Eastern countries, became corrupt,
and under the name of Pulani practised a feeble Christianity,  unfit to cope with the vigorous
fanaticism of the Mussulman.  Many Europeans came back from those wars wavering in faith, and
no one knows how many with faith entirely lost.

It is not, therefore, too much to suppose that the Oriental  errors which suddenly burst forth
at this time in Western Europe  followed in the wake of the returning pilgrims, and it is highly
probable, if not absolutely certain, that, had there been no  Crusades, Manicheism and the
secret societies born of it would  never have been known in Italy and France. Hence, one of
the  first and greatest champions of the Church in controversy with  the Albigenses - Peter
the Venerable, Abbot of Cluny - at the  very beginning of the heresy, found no better means
of opposing  the new errors than attacking every thing coming from the East.  Thus, he wrote
his long treatises against the Talmud and the  Koran, so much had the Crusades already contributed
to  introducing into Western Europe the seeds of Asiatic errors. All  historians agree in giving
an Eastern origin to the Paulicians,  Bulgarians, Albigenses, and others of those times.

Manicheism indeed had infested Europe long before. Some Roman  emperors had published severe
edicts against it. In the fifth  century, the heresy still flourished in Italy and Africa,
St.  Augustine himself being an adept for several years, and by his  writings he has made us
acquainted with its strongest supporters  in his day. He was followed, in his attacks on it,
by a great  number of Fathers, both Greek and Latin.

But after the barbarian invasions we hear no more of the  Manichees for upward of five hundred
years. The West had  entirely forgotten them. Arianism and Manicheism had apparently  perished
together. The tenth century is called a period of  darkness and ignorance; it at least possessed
the advantage of  being free from heresy; the dogmas of the Church were  unhesitatingly and
universally accepted. Western Europe, though  cut up by the new-born feudalism into a thousand
fragments, was  at least one in faith, until that great and powerful union  having, in an outburst
of enthusiasm, produced the Crusades, we  suddenly find Eastern theories and immoralities invading
the  countries most faithful to the Church.

Raymond VI., Count of Toulouse, the great champion of the  Albigenses, was the near descendant
of that great Raymond, one  of the chiefs of the first Crusade, who might have aspired to 
the throne of Jerusalem, had not Godfrey de Bouillon won the  suffrages of the soldiers of
the Cross by his ardent and pure  piety. Raymond VI. dwelt in Languedoc, in all the luxurious
splendor of an Eastern emir; and he doubtless found the  doctrines of dualistic Manicheism
more congenial to his taste  for pleasure than the stern tenets of the Christian religion.
Ambition, it is true, was one of the chief motives which  prompted him to place himself at
the head of the heretics; he  hoped to enrich himself through them by the spoils of the Church;
and thus the same power which later on moved the German princes  to embrace Lutheranism was
already acting on the aspiring Count  of Toulouse at the beginning of the thirteenth century.
Thus we  find him at the head of his troops, plundering churches,  ravaging monasteries, outraging
and profaning holy things, for  the purpose of filling his coffers.

Yet it is also certain that he, the chief of the sectarians, and  a great number of the nobility
of Southern France, were led to  embrace the Albigensian error by the degrading habits which
they  had previously contracted.

We do not purpose entering into a lengthened discussion on the  subject; we merely wish to
contrast, with the wide spread of  heresy in Western Europe, the great fact of a total absence
of  it in Ireland; or rather, we should say, and by so saying we  confirm our reflection, that
errors of a similar nature did  invade the Pale in Erin at this time, without touching in any
wise the children of the soil.

For, it is a remarkable fact that, at the beginning of the  fourteenth century, the name of
heresy is mentioned for the  first and last time in Catholic Ireland; the new doctrines  bearing
a close resemblance to some of the errors of the  Albigenses, and their chief propagators being
all lords of the  Pale.

In November of 1235, Pope Benedict XII. wrote a letter on this  subject to Edward III. of England,
which may be read in F.  Brenan's Ecclesiastical History.

It is clear from many things related by Ware in his  "Antiquities" that the Vicar of Christ,
unable to follow freely  his inclinations with respect to the filling of the sees of Erin,
and obliged to appoint to bishoprics, at least in many parts of  the island, only men of English
birth, selected for that purpose  members of the various religious orders then existing. Instead
of granting episcopal jurisdiction to the feudal nominees of the  court, when unworthy, Rome
appointed a Franciscan, or a  Dominican, a member of some religious community, who was born
in  England, but at least more independent of the court, of greater  sympathy with the people,
less swayed by worldly and selfish  motives, and consequently readier to obey the mandates
of Rome,  which were always on the side of justice and morality. Thus we  find that in the
whole history of Ireland, as a general rule,  the bishops chosen from religious orders were
acceptable to the  people, and true to their duty.

Such a man certainly was Richard Ledred, a Minorite, born in  London, whom the Pope made Bishop
of Ossory. But on that very  account he incurred the hatred of many English officials, and
even of worldly prelates, among whom Alexander Bicknor,  Archbishop of Dublin, was the most
conspicuous. Bieknor was not  only archbishop, but had been appointed Lord Justice of Ireland
by the king, and later on Lord Deputy; later still he was  dispatched by the English Parliament
as ambassador to France.

"It had been well," says F. Brenan, "for the archbishop himself,  and for those immediately
under his jurisdiction, had he  abstained from mixing himself up with the state affairs of
those  times. Ambition formed no inferior trait in the character of  Alexander, even long before
he had been exalted to a high  dignity in the Church. He advanced rapidly into power, stepping
from one office into another, until at length he found himself  in the midst of the labyrinth,
without being able to make his  way, unless by means of guides as inexperienced as they were
treacherous. It was by causes such as these that he brought  himself into serious difficulties,
not only with the Archbishop  of Armagh, on account of the primacy, but also with his own 
suffragans, and particularly with the Bishop of Ossory."

Under these circumstances it was that the prelate last mentioned, on visiting his diocese,
found unmistakable signs of the spread  of heresy among his flock. His diocese at that time
formed a  part of the English Pale, and Kilkenny, where he had his  cathedral, was often the
seat of Parliament.

Among those most active for the propagation of the new doctrines  were found, the Seneschal
of Kilkenny, the Treasurer of Ireland,  and the Chief-Justice of the Common Pleas--all English
of the  Pale. The zealous bishop, fearless of the consequences, openly  denounced them, and
publicly excommunicated the Treasurer. At  once a terrible storm was raised among their English
abettors,  and, in order to screen the guilty parties, they recriminated  against the prelate,
and accused him of being a sharer in the  crime of Thomas Fitzgilbert, who had burned the castle
of Moy  Cahir, and killed its owner, Hugh Le Poer. The temporalities of  Ledred having been
already sequestrated for his boldness in  denouncing heretics, he was compelled finally to
leave his  diocese and fly to Avignon, where he remained in exile for nine  years.

The Archbishop of Dublin had been one of his bitterest enemies,  and, although not actually
accused of heresy himself, he was  certainly the abettor of heretics, and had done all in his
power  to have Ledred arrested for his supposed crimes.

Ware, in his lives of Bicknor and Ledred, is evidently a  partisan of the first and an enemy
of the second. He pretends  that Ledred tacitly acknowledged his guilt in the affair of Le
Poer, since he sued for pardon to the king, as though readers of  English history did not constantly
meet with instances of  innocent men compelled to sue for pardon of crimes which they  had
never committed.

We have fortunately better judges of the characters of both  prelates in the two popes, Benedict
XII. and Clement VI.: the  first believing in the existence of the heresy denounced by  Ledred;
the second exempting the Bishop of Ossory from the  superior jurisdiction of Bicknor, on account
of the unjust  animosity displayed toward him by this worldly prelate.

The absence of all historical documents in reference to the case  leaves us at a loss to know
the effect produced on Edward III.  by the letter of the Pontiff. It is highly probable that
the  king preferred to believe Bicknor rather than the Pope, and  disregarded the advice of
the latter.

In such an event, how was the heresy put down? Simply by the  good sense and spirit of faith
of the people, or rather by the  deep Christian feeling of the native Irish, who were always
opposed to innovation, and who remained firm in the traditional  belief inherent in the nation
by the grace of God. Schism and  heresy seem impossible among the children of Erin. If at any
time certain novelties have appeared among them, they have  speedily vanished like empty vapor.
They heard that, in other  parts of the Church, in the East chiefly, heresiarchs had arisen
and led away into error large numbers of people forming  sometimes formidable sects, which
threatened the very existence  of the religion of Christ; but the face of a heretic they had
never beheld. Soon, indeed, they were to be at the mercy of a  whole swarm of them, to see
a pretended church leagued with the  state to bring about their perversion; but as yet they
had had  no experience of the kind.

Only a few heretics were pointed out to them by the finger of  one of their bishops, and his
denunciations were confirmed by  the judgment of the Holy See. Hence, according to F. Brenan,
"the sensation which pervaded all classes became vehement and  frightful. The bishop and his
clergy came forward, and by solid  argument, by the strength and power of truth, opposed and
discomfited the enemies of religion."

The feeling here expressed is a natural one for a true Christian  at the very mention of heresy.
Yet how few nations have  experienced a sensation "vehement and frightful" at the  appearance
of positive error among them! But, at all periods of  their history, such has been the feeling
of the Irish people.

Fortunately for them, the number of sectarians was so small as  to become insignificant; the
English of the Pale were always few  in comparison with the natives, and heresy had been, adopted
by  only a small body.

Error, therefore, could not cause in the island the social and  political convulsions which
it had produced in France about the  same time. There was no need of a second Albigensian war
to put  it down. There was no need even of the Inquisition, as an  ecclesiastical tribunal.
The sentence of the bishop, the decree  of excommunication pronounced from the foot of the
altar, was  all that was required.

When we compare this single fact of Irish ecclesiastical history  with what was then transpiring
in Europe--the most insidious  errors spreading throughout; the faith of many becoming  unsettled,
a general preparation for the social deluge which was  impending and so soon to fall--we cannot
but conclude that  Ireland, in the midst of her misfortunes, was happy in being  separated
from the rest of the world. The breath of novelty  could breathe no contagion on her shores.
Happy even was she in  not seeing her sons enlist in the army of the Cross, if the  result
of their victories was, to bring back from the Holy Land  the Eastern corruption and the many
heresies nestling there and  settled, even around the sepulchre of our Lord, during so many
ages of separation from the West and open communication with all  the wild vagaries of Arabian,
Persian, and Indian philosophies.

Even in the midst of such a trial we believe that Ireland would  have held steadfast to her
faith, as she did later on when  heresy came to her with compulsion or death; and this firmness
of purpose, which the Irish have always manifested when the  question was a change of religion,
is worthy our consideration.  For the facility with which some nations have, in the course
of  ages, yielded to the spirit of novelty, and the sturdy  resistance opposed to it by others,
is a subject that would  repay investigation, but which we can only slightly touch upon.

In ancient times the Greek mind, accustomed from the beginning  to subtlety of argument, and
easily carried away by a  rationalism which was innate, offers a striking contrast to the 
steady traditional spirit of the Latin races in general. Except  Pelagiaism and its cognate
errors, all the great heresies which  afflicted the Church during the first ten centuries,
originated  in the East; and the various sects catalogued by several of the  Greek Fathers,
as early as the second and third centuries,  astonish the modern reader by the slender web
on which their  often ridiculous systems are spun, of texture strong enough,  however, at the
time to form the groundwork for making a  disastrous impression on a large number of adherents.
The  infinity almost of philosophical systems in pagan Greece had  prepared the way for the
subsequent vagaries of heresy, and we  must look to our own times, so prolific of absurd theories,
in  order to find a parallel to the incredible variety of dogmatic  assertions among the Greek
heresiarchs of early times.

But, at the outbreak of Protestantism, in the sixteenth century,  the world witnessed a still
more striking example of diversity  in the various branches of the Japhetic family - the nations
belonging to the Teutonic and Scandinavian stocks chiefly  embracing the error at once with
a wonderful spontaneity. The  various remnants of the Celtic race and the totality of the 
Latin nations remained, on the whole, obedient to the guiding  voice of the Church of Christ.
It is customary with modern  writers, when imbued with what are called liberal ideas, to  ascribe
this difference to the steady, systematic mind of  northern nations, and to their innate love
of liberty, which  could not brook the yoke of spiritual despotism imposed by the  Church of
Rome. But all this is mere supposition, inadequate to  accounting for the fact. The Teutonic
and Scandinavian mind is  certainly more systematic and apparently more steady than the  Celtic;
but it is far less so than the Latin. No nation in the  whole history of mankind has ever displayed
more steadiness and  system than the Romans, and the Latin family has inherited those  characteristics
from Rome. The Spanish race has no equal in  steadiness (in the sense here intended of steadfastness),
and  the French certainly none in system, which it often carried to  the verge of absurdity.

As for love of liberty, as distinct from love of license, it had  absolutely nothing to do
with the great revolution which has  been called the Reformation. No nation can relish despotism,
and  the whole history of Ireland is a living example that her sons  are steadily opposed to
it to the death. And it is now too late  to pretend that the cause of true liberty has been
served by the  spread of Protestantism over a large portion of Europe. Balmez  and others have
proved the falsehood of such pretensions. If any  modern writers, such as Mr. Bancroft, for
instance, men  otherwise of sound mind and great ability, continue to assert  this, the assertion
must proceed from prejudice deeply ingrained, which reflection has not yet succeeded in eradicating,
and  their opinions on the subject are necessarily confined to bold  assertions, of a character
which in others they themselves would  stigmatize as empty and unfounded.

The reason of the difference lies deeper in the constitution of  the human mind, in the Celtic
and Latin races on the one side,  in the Teutonic and Scandinavian families on the other. Any
one  who has studied the Irish character in our days--a character  which was the same in former
ages--will easily see something of  that great and happy cause.

The difference lies first in the good sense which enables them  to perceive instinctively that
the eternal should be preferred  to the temporal. If all men kept that distinct perception
ever  present to their minds, they would not only accept at all times  the truths of faith,
since faith, according to St. Paul, is "the  substance of the things hoped for," but they would
remain ever  faithful to the moral code given us by God. The Celt indeed will  at times lose
sight of the eternal in the presence of a temporal  temptation; but he is never blind to the
knowledge that faith is  the groundwork of salvation, and that hope remains as long as  that
is not surrendered. Therefore he will never surrender it. The need of reviving his faith is
rarely called for, when, after  a life of sin, the shadow of death reminds him of the duty
he  owes his own soul. The great truth that, after all, the ETERNAL  is every thing, remains
always deeply impressed on his mind; and  half his labor is spared to the minister of God,
when bringing  such a man back to a life of virtue. There is scarcely any need  of asking an
Irishman, "Do you believe?" For, every word that  passes his lips, every look and gesture,
every expression of  feeling, is in fact an act of faith. How easy after this is the  work
of regeneration!

0 happy race, to whom this life is in truth a shadow that  passeth away! to whom the unseen
is ever present, or comes back  so vividly and so readily!

This supposes, as we have said, a sound, good sense, which is  characteristic of the race.
We may say that this nation  possesses the wisdom of Sir Thomas More, who esteemed it folly
to lose eternity for a life of twenty years of ease and honors.  Is not this, at bottom, the
thought which has sustained the  nation in that dread martyrdom of three centuries, whose 
terrible story we have still to tell? Have they not, as a nation, one after another, generation
upon generation, lived and passed  their lives in contempt, in want, in frightful misery, to
die in  torments or hidden sufferings, without a gleam of hope from this  world for their race,
their families, their children, their very  name, because they would not surrender their religion,
that is  to say, truth, which alone could secure the eternal welfare of  their souls?

Speak to us, after this, of a steady and systematic mind! Prate  to us of the love of liberty,
of self-dignity! Where are such  things to be found in their reality, on their trial, if not
in  the scenes and the nation we have just pictured?

A second reason, no less effective, perhaps, than the first, and  certainly as remarkable,
is the very composition of the Celtic  mind, which naturally tends to firm belief, because
it is given  exclusively to traditions, past events, narratives of poets,  historians, and
genealogists. Had the Irish at any time turned  themselves to criticise, to doubt, to argue,
their very  existence, as a people, would have ceased. They must go on  believing, or all reality
vanishes from their minds, accustomed  for so many ages to take in that solid knowledge founded,
it is  true, on hearsay; but how else can truth reach us save by  hearsay? Hence, their simple
and artless acquiescence in any  thing they hear from trustworthy lips - acquiescence ever
refused to a known enemy, never to a well-tried friend, even  when the facts ascertained are
strange, mysterious, unaccounted  for, and incredible to minds differently constituted.

Thus, when we read their "Acta Sanctorum," we at once find  ourselves in a world so different
from our every-day world - a  region of wonders, mysteries, of heavenly and supernatural deeds,
unequalled in any story of marvellous travel or fable of  imaginative romance. Yet, who will
say that the writers doubted  a single phrase of what they wrote? Is it not clear, from the
very words they use, that they would have held it sacrilege to  utter a falsehood, when speaking
of the blessed saints? And, can  the lives of the saints be like those of common mortals? What
is  there strange in considering that the earth was mysterious and  heavenly, when heavenly
beings walked upon it? Read the Litany  and Festology of Aengus, and doubt if the holy man
did not  believe all therein contained. Say, if it can be possible, that  it is not all true,
though apparently incredible. Who can doubt  what is asserted with such vehemence of belief?
How can that  fail to be true which holy men and women have themselves  believed, and given
to the world to be believed?

This thoroughly explains the simplicity of faith which still  distinguishes the Irish people.
It explains why no heretic could  be found among them, and their intense horror of heresy as
soon  as known. Nor is it their mind alone which bears the impress of  faith: their very exterior
is a witness to it. Go into any large  city where dwell a number of Irish inhabitants; walk
through the  public streets, where they walk among the children of other  races, and you will
easily distinguish them, not only by the  modesty of their women and the simple bearing of
their men, but  by the look of confidence and contentedness stamped on their  features. Whoever
has a settled faith, is no longer an inquirer,  no longer troubled with the anxiety and restlessness
of a man  plunged in doubt and uncertainty; all the lineaments of the face, all the gestures
and attitudes of the body, speak of quietude  and repose.

We might render this discussion more effective by the study of  the contrary phenomena, by
showing how easily races, differently  gifted, endowed with the spirit of criticism and argument,
sever  from the faith and follow the lead of deceptive teachers. Our  object here was to describe
the Irish, and not to enter into a  study of the physiology of other minds; but a word on Germanic
and Scandinavian tribes and peoples may not be amiss.

There is no doubt that these races place their "good sense" in a  very different line from
the Irish; that they are, also, much  more given to criticism, what they call "grumbling,"
and absence  of repose.

With regard to the first point - their "good sense" - it is easy  to remark their tendency
to prefer the temporal to the eternal.  For their "good sense" consists in enjoying the things
of this  life without troubling themselves over-much about another. And,  in this observation,
there is nothing which can possibly offend  them, for such is their open profession and estimate
of true  wisdom. Hence result their love of comfort, their thrift, their  shrewdness in all
material and worldly affairs; hence, their  constant boasting about their civilization, understanding,
thereby, what is pleasing to the senses; hence, also, their  success in a life wherein they
set their whole happiness. How  could they be expected to remain steadfast to a faith which
declares war to pleasure, and speaks only of contempt for this  world? It is not matter of
surprise, then, that their great  argument, to prove that theirs is the better and the right
religion, is to compare their physical well-being with the  inferiority in that regard of Catholic
nations.

With regard to the spirit of criticism and argumentation,  nothing is so opposed to the spirit
of faith; and it is as clear  as day that the northern races possess this in an eminent degree.
What question, religious or philosophical, can rest intact when  brought under the microscopic
vision of a German philosopher or  an English rationalist? A few years more of criticism, as
now  understood and practised by them, would leave absolutely nothing  which the mind of man
could respect and believe.

An attentive observer will surely conclude, after a serious  examination of the subject, that
it is from petty causes of this  character that these races have so easily surrendered their
faith, rather than from their systematic minds and love of  liberty.

II. The rising of the communes, one of the greatest features of  mediaeval Europe, did not
extend to Ireland, separated as it  then was from the Continent. But, by reason of this very
separation, the island remained forever free from the future  political commotions of what
is known as "the third estate." A  few remarks on this subject are requisite, because of the
objection brought against the Irish, that they have never known  municipal government, and
also on account of the false  assertions of some philosophical historians, who allege that
the  Danes and Anglo-Normans, in turn, wrought a great good to  Ireland by bringing with them
the boon of citizen rights.

What were the causes of the rising of the communes in the  eleventh and following centuries?
The universality of the fact  argues identity of motives, since, without common understanding
among various nations, the risings showed themselves at about  the same time in Italy, France,
Germany, Spain, and England.

In ancient cities, which existed prior to the Germanic invasions, the population, after the
scourge had passed, was composed  principally of three elements: 1. Free men of the conquering
races, who were poor, and had embraced some mechanical pursuit;  2. The remnants of the Roman
population, who followed some  trade; 3. Freedmen from the rural districts, who, unable to
gain  a livelihood in the country, had come to reside in the cities,  where they could more
easily subsist.

Thus, besides the feudal lords and the class of villeins, there  was formed everywhere a third
class, that of arts and trades.

The juridical power being restricted to the lords, whose rights  extended only to the land
and the men attached to it, the class  of artisans found themselves destitute of legal rights,
without  a recognition or place even in the jurisprudence, as then  existing, consequently
in a practically anarchical state. Hence,  they formed among themselves their own associations,
elected  their own magistrates, enacted their own by-laws.

In the cities we have mentioned, the bishop alone held social  relations with the lords, whether
the feudal chieftain of the  vicinity, or the Count of the city. Thus, the bishop often acted
as the mediator between the citizens and the privileged class  which surrounded them. The great
object of the citizens was to  obtain a charter of rights from the suzerain, who alone could
act with justice and impartiality toward those disfranchised  burghers. To this was owed the
immense number of charters  granted at that time, many of which, lately published, tend  better
than any thing else to give us an insight into the origin  of municipal life in mediaeval Europe.

New cities, either founded by the invaders or springing up of  themselves around feudal castles
and monasteries, soon  experienced the necessity of similar favors, which, as soon as  obtained,
invested them with a social status unenjoyed before.

The number of freemen, reduced to poverty, or of recent freedmen  - freed by the emancipation
everywhere set on foot and  encouraged by the Church - extended the spread of communes even
to the rural districts. Thus, many villages or small towns grew  into corporations, and a social
state arose, hitherto totally  unknown in Europe.

The question has been much discussed, whether those new  municipal corporations owed their
origin to the municipal system  of the Romans, or were altogether disconnected with it. The
opinion commonly now accepted is, that the two systems were  utterly distinct. In some few
instances, a particular Roman  municipal city may have passed into a mediaeval corporate town
under a new charter and with extended rights; but this was  certainly the exception. In the
great majority of cases, the  newly-chartered cities had never before enjoyed municipal rights.

These few words suffice to show that the communes, wherever they  arose, presupposed the existence
of feudalism, and the slavery  once so widely extended, passing gradually into serfdom.

But neither feudalism nor slavery, in the old pagan sense of the  word, nor even serfdom, properly
so called, as the doom of the  ascripti glebae, ever existed in Ireland. There was, therefore,
no need among the Irish for the rising of communes.

Nevertheless, we do find communes existing in Ireland and  charters granted to Irish cities
by English kings. But they were  merely English institutions for the special benefit of the
English of the Pale, which were always refused to "the Irish  enemy," and which the "Irish
enemy," with the exception of a few  individual cases, never demanded. Consequently the fact
stands  almost universally true that the rising of the communes never  extended to Ireland,
and that, if the Irish never enjoyed the  benefit of them, as little did they share in the
evil  consequences resulting from them.

All those evil consequences had their root in a feeling of  bitter hostility between the higher
or noble classes, and not  only the villeins, whom they ground between them, but also the 
middle classes, who were dwelling in the cities, emancipating  themselves by slow degrees,
and forming in course of time the  "third estate."

The workings of that hostility form a great part of the history  of Europe from the twelfth
century down to the present day, and  many social convulsions, recorded in the annals of the
six ages  preceding our own, may be traced to it. The frightful French  Revolution was certainly
a result of it, although it must be  granted that several secondary causes contributed to render
the  catastrophe more destructive, the chief among which was the  spread of infidel doctrines
among the higher and middle classes.

But our days witness a still more awful spectacle, the  persistent array of the poor against
the rich in all countries  once Christian, and this may be traced directly to their  mediaeval
origin now under our consideration; and, the evils  preparing for mankind therefrom, future
history alone will be  able to tell.

In Ireland, this has never been the danger. In the earlier constitution of the nation, there
could be no rivalry, no  hostility of class with class, as there never existed any social 
distinction between them; and if, in our days, the poor there as  elsewhere seem arrayed against
the rich, it is not as class  against class, but as the spoiled against the spoiler, the  victim
against the robber, against the holders of the soil by  right of confiscation--a soil upon
which the old owners still  live, with all the traditions of their history, which have never
been completely effaced, and which in our days are springing  into new life under the studies
of patriotic antiquarians. This  fact cannot be denied.

The case of Ireland is so different in this respect from that of  other nations, that in no
other country have the people been  reduced to such a degrading state of pauperism, yet in
no other  country is the same submission to the existing order of society  found among the
lower classes. No communism, no socialism has  ever been preached there, and, were it preached,
it would only  be to deaf ears. Until the last two or three centuries, no seed  of animosity
between high and low, rich and poor, had been sowed  in Ireland. The reason of this we have
seen in a previous  chapter. And if, since the wholesale confiscations of the  seventeenth
century, the country has been divided into two  hostile camps, the fault has never laid with
the poor, the  despoiled; they have always been the victims, and never uttered  open threats
of destruction against their oppressors. If in the  future men look to great calamities, Ireland
is the only quarter  from which nothing of the kind is to be feared, and the  impending revolution
by which she may profit will look to her  for no assistance in the subversion of society.

We now leave the reader to appreciate to its full extent the  real value of the opinion of
modern writers who would justify  the successive invasions of the Danes and Anglo-Normans,
and  also, we suppose, of the Puritans, as praiseworthy attempts to  introduce into Ireland
the municipal system, so productive of  good elsewhere throughout Europe.

There is no doubt that municipal rights have been of immense  advantage to European society,
as constituted at the time of  their introduction. They formed the germ of a new class,  destined
to be the ruling class of the world, by whom human  rights were first to be understood and
proclaimed, and the  necessary amount of freedom granted to all and secured by just  laws justly
administered. Christianity is the true source of all  those rights, as Christian morality ought
to be their standard.

But what an amount of human misery was first required, in order  that such blessed results
might follow, merely because religion,  which was and ever had been steadily working to the
same end,  was altogether set aside, and its assistance even despised in  the mighty change!
And after all--we might say in consequence-- how limited has the boon practically become! How
few are the  nations, even in our days, which understand impartiality,  moderation, justice!
How soon will mankind become sufficiently  enlightened to settle down peacefully in the enjoyment
of those  blessings of civil liberty proclaimed and trumpeted to the four  winds of heaven,
yet in no place rightly understood and  equitably shared?

Ireland never knew those municipal rights from which have flowed  so many evils, side by side
with so few blessings, because their  essential elements were never found there. What the future
may  develop, no man can say. It is time, however, for all to see  that the nation is equal
to any rights to which men are said to  be entitled.

III. The great intellectual movement set on foot in Europe  during the middle ages, by the
numerous universities which  sprang up everywhere, under the fostering care of Popes or  Christian
monarchs, failed to reach the island, in consequence  of its exclusion from the European family;
yet even this was not  for her an unmitigated evil, though certainly the greatest loss  she
sustained. While Europe, during the eighth and ninth  centuries, was in total darkness, Ireland
alone basked in the  light of science, whose lustre, shining in her numerous schools,  attracted
thither by its brightness the youth of all nations,  whom she received with a generosity unbounded.
Not content with  this, she sent forth her learned and holy men to spread the  light abroad
and dispel the thick darkness, to establish seats  of learning as focuses whence should radiate
the light of truth  on a world buried in barbarism.

And when the warm sunshine, created or kept alive by her, sheds  its rays on Italy, on France,
on Germany, and England itself,  all her own schools are closed, her once great universities
destroyed. Clonard, Clonfert, Armagh, Bangor, Clonmacnoise, are  desolate, and the wealthy
Anglo-Norman prelates find their  purses empty when the question arises of restoring or forming
a  single centre of intellectual development. The natural  consequences should have been darkness,
barbarism, gross  ignorance. Ireland never fell to that depth of spiritual  desolation. Her
sons, though deprived of all exterior help,  would still feed for centuries on their own literary
treasures.  All the way down to the Stuart dynasty, the nation preserved,  not only her clans,
her princes, and her brehon laws, but also  her shanachies, her books, her ancient literature
and traditions. These the feudal barons could not rob her of; and if they would  not repay
her, in some measure, for what they took away, by  flooding her with the new methods of thought,
of knowledge, of  scientific investigation, at least they could not destroy her  old manuscripts,
wipe out from her memory the old songs, snatch  the immortal harp from the hands of her bards,
nor silence the  lips of her priests from giving vent to those bursts of  impassioned eloquence
which are natural to them and must out.  Hence there was no tenth century of darkness for her--let
us  bear this in mind--light never deserted her, but continued to  shine on her from within,
despite the refusal of her masters to  unlock for her the floodgates of knowledge.

For this reason was it not to her an unmitigated loss; but there  is another and, perhaps,
a stronger still.

We should be careful not to attribute to what is good the abuse  made of it by men; yet the
good is sometimes the occasion of  evil; and so it was with those great, admirable, and much-to-be-
regretted universities.

They imparted to the mind of man an impulse which the pride and  ambition of man turned to
his intellectual ruin. What was  intended for the spread of true knowledge and faith became
in  the end the source of spiritual pride, the natural fosterer of  doubt and negation. Modern
science, so called, that incarnation  of vanity, sophistry, error, and delusion, comes indirectly
from  those universities of the middle ages; and it was chiefly at the  time of what is called
the revival of learning, that the great  revolution in science came about, which changed the
intellectual  gold into dross, the once divine ambrosia of knowledge, served  to happy mortals
in mediaeval times, into poison.

That pretended "revival of learning" can never be mentioned in  connection with Ireland; and
the "idolatry of art," and  corruption of morals, never crossed the channel which God set 
between Great Britain and the Island of Saints.

Another revival, though of a very different character, was,  however, actually taking place
in Erin at that very period, when  the Wars of the Roses gave her breathing-time, which we
relate  in the words of a modern Irish writer, as a conclusion to the  reflections we have
indulged in:

"Within this period lived Margaret of Offaly, the beautiful and  accomplished queen of O'Carrol,
King of Ely. She and her husband  were munificent patrons of literature, art, and, science.
On  Queen Margaret's special invitation, the literati of Ireland and  Scotland, to the number
of nearly three thousand, held a  "session" for the furtherance of literary and scientific
interests at her palace near Killeagh, in Offaly, the entire  assemblage being the guests of
the king and queen during their  stay.

"The nave of the great church of Da Sinchell was converted for  the occasion into a banqueting-hall,
where Margaret herself  inaugurated the proceedings by placing two massive chalices of  gold,
as offerings, on the high altar, and committing two orphan  children to the custody of nurses
to be fostered at her charge.  Robed in cloth of gold, this illustrious lady, who was as  distinguished
for her beauty as for her generosity, sat in  queenly state m one of the galleries of the church,
surrounded  by the clergy, the brehons, and her private friends, shedding a  lustre on the
scene which was passing below, while her husband,  who had often encountered England's greatest
generals in battle,  remained mounted on a charger outside the church, to bid the  guests welcome
and see that order was preserved. The invitations  were issued, and the guests arranged according
to a list  prepared by 0'Carrol's chief brehon; and the second  entertainment, which took place
at Rathangan, was a supplemental  one, to embrace such men of learning as had not been brought
together at the former feast."--(A.M. 0'Sullivan.) 

Such was the true "revival of learning" in Ireland--a return to  her old traditional teaching.
If this peaceful time had been of  longer duration, there is no doubt that her old schools
would  have flourished anew, and men in subsequent ages might have  compared the results of
the two systems: the one producing with  true enlightenment, peace, concord, faith, and piety,
though  confined to the insignificant compass of one small island; the  other resulting in
the mental anarchy so rife to-day, and  spreading all over the rest of Europe.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE IRISH AND THE TUDORS.--HENRY VIII.

By losing the only bond of unity--the power vested in the Ard- Righ--which held the various
parts of the island together,  Ireland lost all power of exercising any combined action. The
nations were as numerous as the clans, and the interests as  diverse as the families. They
possessed, it is true, the same  religion, and in the observance of its precepts and practices
they often found a remedy for their social evils; but religion,  not encountering any opposition
from any quarter, with the  exception of the minor differences existing between the native
clergy and the English dignitaries, was generally considered as  out of the question in their
wranglings and contentions. We  shall see how the blows struck at it by the English monarchs
welded into one that people, were the cause of that union now so  remarkable among them, and
really constituted the only bond that  ever linked them together.

Before dwelling on these considerations, let us glance a moment  at the state of the country
prior to the attempt of introducing  Protestantism there.

The English Pale was reduced at this period to one half of five  counties in Leinster and Meath;
and even within those boundaries  the 0'Kavanaghs, O'Byrnes, O'Moores and others, retained
their  customs, their brehon laws, their language and traditions, often  making raids into
the very neighborhood of the capital, and  parading their gallowglasses and kerns within twenty
miles of  Dublin.

The nobility and the people were in precisely the same state  which they had known for centuries.
The few Englishmen who had  long ago settled in the country had become identified with the
natives, had adopted their manners, language, and laws, so  offensive at first to the supercilious
Anglo-Normans.

But a revolution was impending, owing chiefly to the change  lately introduced into the religion
of England, by Henry Tudor.  It is important to study the first attempt of the kind in  Ireland;
not only because it became the occasion of establishing  for a lengthy period a real unanimity
among the people--giving  birth to the nation as it were--but also for the right  understanding
of the word "rebellion," which had been so freely  used before toward the natives, and which
was now about to  receive a new interpretation.

The English had once deceived the Irish, exacting their  submission in the twelfth century
by foisting upon them the word homage:  they would deceive Europe by a constant use, or rather
misuse,  of the words "rebel" and "rebellion." By the enactment of new  laws they pronounce
the simple attachment to the old religion of  the country a denial of sovereign right, and
consequently an act  of overt treason; and the Irish shall be butchered mercilessly  for the
sake of the religion of Christ without winning the name,  though they do the crown, of martyrdom;
for Europe is to be so  effectually deceived, that even the Church will hesitate to  proclaim
those religious heroes, saints of God.

But the great fact of the birth of a nation, in the midst of  those throes of anguish, will
lessen their atrocity in the mind  of the reader, and explain to some extent the wonderful
designs  of Providence.

From an English state paper, published by M. Haverty, we learn  that, in 1515, a few years
before the revolt of Luther, the  island was divided into more than sixty separate states,
or  "regions," "some as big as a shire, some more, some less."

Had it not been for this division and the constant feuds it  engendered, in the north between
the O'Neills and O'Donnells, in  the south between the Geraldines (Desmonds and Kildares) and
the  Butlers (Ormonds), the authority of the English king would have  been easily shaken off.
The policy so constantly adopted by  England in after-times--a policy well expressed by the
Latin  adage, Divide et impera--preserved the English power in Ireland,  and finally brought
the island into outward subjection at least,  to Great Britain--a subjection which the Irish
conscience and  the Irish voice and Irish arms yet did not cease to protest  against and deny.
But the nation was divided, and it required  some great and general calamity to unite them
together and make  of them one people.

That, even spite of those divisions, they were at the time on  the point of driving the English
out of the island, we need no  better proofs than the words of the English themselves. The
Archbishop of Dublin, John Allen, the creature of Wolsey, who  was employed by the crafty cardinal
to begin the work of the  spoliation of convents in the island, and oppose the great Earl 
of Kildare, dispatched his relative, the secretary of the Dublin  Council, to England, to report
that "the English laws, manners,  and language in Ireland were confined within the narrow compass
of twenty miles;" and that, unless the laws were duly enforced, "the little place," as the
Pale was called, "would be reduced to  the same condition as the remainder of the kingdom;"
that is to  say, the Pale itself, which had been brought to such  insignificant limits, would
belong exclusively to the Irish.

It was while affairs were at this pass that the revolt of  "silken Thomas" excited the wrath
of Henry VIII., and brought  about the destruction of almost the whole Kildare family.

It was about this time, also, that Wolsey fell, and Cromwell,  having replaced him as Chancellor
of England, with Cranmer as  Archbishop of Canterbury, the Reformation began in England with
the divorce of the king, who shortly after assumed supremacy in  spirituals as a prerogative
of the crown, and made Parliament -- in those days himself--supreme law-giver in Church and state.

Cromwell, known in history as the creature and friend of Cranmer, like his protector a secret
pervert to the Protestant doctrines  of Germany, and the first arch-plotter for the destruction
of  Catholicity in the British Isles, undertook to save the English  power in Ireland by forcing
on that country the supremacy of the  king in religious matters, knowing well that such a step
would  drive the Irish into resistance, but believing that he could  easily subdue them and
make the island English.

Having been appointed, not only Chancellor of England, but also  king's vicar-general in temporals
and spirituals, Cromwell  inquired of his English agents in Ireland the best means of  attaining
his object--the subjection of the country. Their  report is preserved among the state papers,
and some of their  suggestions deserve our attentive consideration. If Henry VIII.  had consented
to follow their advice, he would have himself  inaugurated the bloody policy so well carried
out long after by  another Cromwell, the celebrated "Protector."

The report sets forth that the most efficient mode of proceeding  was to exterminate the people;
but Henry thought it sufficient  to gain the nobility over--the people being beneath his notice.

The agents of the vicar-general were right in their atrocious  proposal. They knew the Irish
nation well, and that the only way  to separate Ireland from the See of Peter was to make the
country a desert.

Their means of bringing about the destruction of the people was  starvation. The corn was to
be destroyed systematically, and the  cattle killed or driven away. Their operations, it is
true, were  limited to the borders of the Pale. The gentle Spenser, at a  later period, proposed
to extend them to all Munster, and it was  a special glory reserved for the "Protector" to
carry out this  policy through almost the whole of the island.

"The very living of the Irishry," says the report, "doth clearly  consist in two things: take
away the same from them, and they  are passed for ever to recover, or yet to annoy any subject
Ireland. Take first from them their corn, and as much as cannot  be husbanded, and had into
the hands of such as shall dwell and  inhabit in their lands, to burn and destroy the same,
so as the  Irishry shall not live thereupon; and then to have their cattle  and beasts, which
shall be most hardest to come by, and yet,  with guides and policy, they may be oft had and taken."

The report goes on to point out, most elaborately and  ingeniously, every artifice and plan
for carrying this policy  into effect. But here we have, condensed, as it were, in a  nutshell,
and coolly and carefully set forth, the system which  was adopted later on, and almost crowned
with a fiendish success. But the moment for the execution of this barbarous scheme had  not
yet come, and we find no positive results following  immediately.

This project, complete as it was, was far from being the only  one proposed at that time for
"rooting out the Irish" from  Ireland.  Mr. Prendergast, in his "Introduction to the  Cromwellian
Settlement," says:

"The Irish were never deceived as to the purport of the English,  and, though the Pale had
not been extended for two hundred and  forty years, their firm persuasion in the reign of Henry
VIII.  was, that the original design was not abandoned. 'Irishmen are  of opinion among themselves,'
said Justice Cusack to the king,  'that Englishmen will one day banish them from their lands
forever.'"

In fact, project after project was then proposed for clearing  Ireland of Irish to the Shannon.
Some went so far as already to  contemplate their utter extirpation; but "there was no precedent
for it found in the chronicles of the conquest. Add to this the  difficulty of finding people
to reinhabit it if suddenly  unpeopled.

"The chiefs and gentlemen of the Irish only were to be driven  from their properties," according
to some of those projects,  "and they only were to be driven into exile, while their lands
should be given to Englishmen."

"The king, however, seems to have been satisfied with  confiscating the estates of the Earl
of Kildare and of his  family. Fierce and bloody though he was, there was something  lion-like
in his nature; notwithstanding all those promptings,  he left to the Irish and old English
their possessions, and  seemed even anxious to secure them, but failed to do so for want  of time."

We think Mr. Prendergast's judgment of Henry VIII. too favorable. Generosity did not prompt
him to spare the people and the  nobles, with the exception of the Kildares. We believe that
he  never contemplated the extirpation of the people, because such a  political element could
not enter into his mind. As for the  nobles, he wished to gain them over, because of the long
wars he  foresaw necessary to bring about their utter extinction or exile.

He adopted, accordingly, a plan of his own, holding firm to his  design of having his new title
of "Head of the Church"  acknowledged in Ireland as well as in England.

Cromwell commenced his work by two measures which had met with  perfect success in the latter
country, but which were destined  to fire the sister isle from end to end, and make "the people,"
in course of time, really one. These measures were acts of  Parliament: 1. Establishing 'the
king's spiritual supremacy; 2.  Suppressing, at once, all the monasteries existing in the 
country, and giving their property to the nobles who were  willing to apostatize.

The necessity of convening Parliament resulted from the failure  of the first attempt, already
made, to establish the king's  supremacy. Browne, the successor of Allen in the See of Dublin,
a rank Lutheran at heart, had been commissioned by the king and  by Cranmer, his consecrator,
to establish the new doctrine at  once. His want of success, is thoroughly explained in a letter
to Cromwell, which is still preserved, and which remains one of  the proudest monuments of
the steadfastness of the Irish in  their religion.

He complains that not only the clergy, but the "common people,"  were "more zealous in their
blindness than the saints and  martyrs in truth, in the beginning of the Gospel," and "such
was  their hostility against him that his life was in danger."

And all this in Dublin, in the heart of the Pale, where the  chief antagonist of the new doctrine,
"the leader of the people"  against this first attempt at schism, was Cromer, the Archbishop
of Armagh, an Englishman himself! So that those prelates of  England, who, with the exception
of the noble Fisher, had all  yielded without a murmur of opposition to the will of Henry,
could find no followers, not even of their own nation, in  Ireland, so much had their faith
been strengthened by contact  with that of "the common people."

A Parliament was needed, therefore, and that one which was to be  the instrument of introducing
the great English measure, met for  the first time in Dublin, on the 1st of May, 1536; but,
being  prorogued, it met again in 1537, and did not complete its work  until once more summoned
in 1541, when the old Irish element was  for the first and last time introduced at its sitting,
in order,  if possible, to consecrate the new doctrine by having it  solemnly accepted by the
old race.

This Parliament, which was first convened in Dublin, McGeoghegan  says, "adjourned to Kilkenny,
thence to Cashel, after ward to  Limerick, and lastly to Dublin again." The chief cause of
these  interruptions was the difficulty of bringing an Irish Parliament, even when composed
of Englishmen, as was the case up to 1541,  to pass the decrees of supremacy, denial of Roman
authority, etc., which had been so readily accepted in England.

The Irish Parliaments, as far back as we can see, were composed  not only of lords, spiritual
and temporal, and of deputies of  the Commons, but each diocese possessed also the right to
send  there three ecclesiastical proctors, who, by reason of their  office, owned neither benefice
nor fief, and were therefore at  liberty to vote, fearless of attainder and confiscation, in
accordance with their conscience and their sense of right.

This feature of the Irish assemblies, even when no  representative of the native race sat in
them, was a fatal  obstacle to the success of the scheme devised by Browne and  executed by
Cromwell. Accordingly, we are not astonished to find  that, by an act of despotism not uncommon
during the reign of  Henry VIII., the proctors were excluded from Parliament, which  thus became
an obedient tool in the hands of the government.

Not only, therefore, were several state measures carried in  accordance with the wish of the
king, but the great object  proposed by the meeting of this assembly was finally obtained;
and, lowing the lead of the English Parliament, Henry VIII. and  his successors were confirmed
in the title of "Supreme Head of  the Church in Ireland," with power of reforming and correcting
errors in religion. All appeals to Rome were prohibited, and the  Pope's authority declared
a usurpation.

Henry, however, foreseeing that all these favorite measures of  his policy, being carried by
English votes in a purely English  assembly, though on Irish soil, would meet with universal
opposition from all the native lords, conceived the idea of  summoning the great Irish chieftains
to a new meeting of  Parliament, from which he expected that a moral revolution would  be effected
in the island. Sir Anthony St. Leger, created deputy  in August, 1540, was thought a likely
man to be intrusted with  so delicate a mission. He conducted it with political prudence, 
that is to say, with a judicious mixture of kindness and fraud,  which succeeded beyond all
expectations.

In order to prepare the way for hoodwinking the Irish chieftains, favors of every kind were
showered upon them, to wit, titles  and estates, chiefly those of suppressed monasteries; and
St.  Leger, by an alternate use of force and diplomacy, at length  effected that the Irish
should consent to accept titles. Con  O'Neill, the head of the house of Tyrone, went to England,
accompanied by O'Kervellan, Bishop of Ologher, and was admitted  to an audience by the king.
Henry adopted toward those proud  Irishmen a policy utterly different from that he had used
with  the English lords. These latter were merely threatened with his  displeasure, and with
the feudal penalties he knew so well how  to inflict; the others were received at court as
favorites and  dear friends; a royal courtesy, kind expressions, a smiling face- -such were
the arms he employed against the "barbarous Irish."

Tyrone, O'Donnell, and others, were not proof against his  cunning. The first renounced his
title of prince and the  glorious name of O'Neill, to receive in return that of Earl of  Tyrone.
Manus O'Donnell was made Earl of Tyrconnel. Both  received back the lands which they had offered
to the king, and  their example was followed by a great number of inferior lords.  Among them,
two Magenisses were dubbed knights; Murrough O'Brien, of North Munster, was made Earl of Thomond
and Baron of  Inchiquin; De Burgo, or McWilliams, was created Earl of  Clanricard, and a host
of others submitted in like manner, and  received the new titles which henceforth became conspicuous
in  Irish history.

This was the beginning of the gradual suppression of the clans.  Many of these nobles, unfortunately,
not content with receiving  back, at the hands of the king, the lands which had come into 
their possession from a long line of ancestors, and which really  belonged not to them personally,
but to the clans whose heads  they were, greedily snatched at the estates of religious orders,
whose suppression was the first consequence of the schism in  Ireland, which will soon occupy
our attention.

The Irish chieftains had already seen Wolsey, a cardinal in full  communion with Rome, suppress
forty monasteries in the island.  They might therefore imagine that the confiscation of a still
greater number on the part of the king was a thing not  altogether incompatible with the religion
of the monarch, and  that the fact of their sharing in the plunder was not entirely  opposed
to their titles of Catholics and subjects of Rome. Such  is human conscience when blinded by
self-interest.

The king thought that he had gained over the nobility,--which  was all he wished- -and the
last session of the previous  Parliament of 1536 and the following years might now be held
in  order to consecrate the unholy work.

"On the 12th of June, 1541," says Mr. Haverty, "a Parliament was  held in Dublin, at which
the novel sight was witnessed of Irish  chieftains sitting for the first time with English
lords.  O'Brien appeared there by his procurators and attorneys, and  Kavanagh, O'More, O'Reilly,
McWilliams, and others, took their  seats in person, the addresses of the Speaker and of the
Lord- Chancellor being interpreted to them in Irish by the Earl of  Ormond. An act was unanimously
passed, conferring on Henry VIII.  and his successors the title of King of Ireland, instead
of that  of Lord of Ireland, which the English kings, since the days of John, had hitherto
borne. This act was hailed with  great rejoicings in Dublin, and on the following Sunday, the
lords and gentlemen of Parliament went in procession to St.  Patrick's Cathedral, where solemn
high mass was sung by  Archbishop Browne, after which the law was proclaimed and a Te  Deum
chanted."

It is worthy of remark that in the session of 1541, at which  alone the Irish chieftains appeared,
not a word was said of the  supremacy of the king in spirituals. Sir James Ware, who gives
the various decrees with more detail than usual, makes no  mention of this pet measure of the
king and of the Lutheran  Archbishop Browne, but it was only part and parcel of the  Parliament
of 1536, prorogued successively to Kilkenny, Cashel,  Limerick, and finally again to Dublin.
At its first sitting the  law of supremacy was passed and proclaimed as law of Ireland.  Nothing
was said of it in the various sessions that followed,  including that of 1541; and yet the
Irish chieftains were  supposed to have sanctioned it, inasmach as it was a measure  previously
passed in the same Parliament: and the suppression of  various abbeys and monasteries having
been openly decreed in the  final session, as a result of the king's supremacy--Rome not  having
been consulted, of course--all the signers of the last  decree were supposed to have thereby
sanctioned and adopted the  previous ones. Thus O'Neill, O'Reilly, O'More, and the rest,  without
being aware of the fact, became schismatics, though many  of them, perhaps all, did not see
the connection between the  various sessions of that long Parliament. Certainly, if, on  leaving
the Dublin Cathedral, where they had heard the  archbishop's mass and assisted at that solemn
Te Deum, they had  been told that that act was intended to consecrate the surrender  of the
religion of their ancestors, and the commencement of a  frightful revolution, which would end
in the destruction of  their national existence, almost of their very race, they would  have
incredulously laughed to scorn the unwelcome prophet.

But even if, as we may well believe, those Irish lords had  really been the victims of deception,
and had not, as a body,  been corrupted by the sacrilegious gift of suppressed  monasteries,
the people, their clansmen, prompted by the vivid  impressions and unerring instincts of religious
faith and  patriotic nationality, which were ever living in their breasts,  resented the weakness
of their chieftains as a national  defection and a real apostasy, and took immediate steps
to bring  the lords to their senses, and to prevent the spread of English  corruption.

All who had received titles from Henry, and surrendered to him  the deeds of their lands, as
if those lands belonged to them  personally, and not to the clans collectively, all those,
particularly, who had enriched themselves by the plunder of  religious houses, and who had
taken any part in the destruction  of the religious orders so dear to the Irish heart, were
soon  made to feel the indignation which those events had excited  among the native clansmen,
north and south. And those of the  chieftains who had really been deceived, and had preserved
in  their hearts all through a strong love for their religion and  country, were recalled to
a sense of their error, and brought  back to a sense of their duty by the unmistakable voice
of the  "people."

While the nobles were still in England, feted by Henry in his  royal palace of Greenwich, renouncing
their Irish names to  become English earls and barons, the Ulster chief, protesting  that he
would never again take the name of O'Neill, but content  himself with the title of Earl of
Tyrone; while O'Brien was  being created Earl of Thomond; McWilliams, Earl of Clanricard; 
O'Donnell, Earl of Tyrconnell; Kavanagh, Baron of Ballyann; and  Fitzpatrick, Baron of Ossory;
the clans at home, hearing in due  time of those real treasons, were concerting plans for making
their lords repent of their weakness or treachery, and for  administering to them due punishment
on their return.

O'Neill, "the first of his race who had accepted an English  title," on landing in Ireland,
learned that, his people had  deposed him, and elected in his stead his son John the Proud,
better known as Shane O'Neill; O'Donnell, on his arrival, met  most, of his clan, headed by
his son, up in arms against him;  the new Earl of Clanricard had already been deposed by his
people and another McWilliams, with a Gaelic name, elected in  his place; and so with the rest.

But, unfortunately, the Government of England was strong enough  to support its favorite chieftains,
and it found some Irish  tools ready at hand to form the nucleus of an Irish party in  their
favor. Thus, unanimity no longer marked the decisions of  the clans; two parties were formed
in each of them, the one  national, comprising the great bulk of the people, the real,  true
people; the other English, composed of a few apostate  Irishmen, backed by the power of England.
Thus, henceforth we  hear of the O'Reilly, and the king's O'Reilly, etc.

Henry VIII. seemed, therefore, with the help of his minister, St. Leger, to have succeeded
in breaking up the clans, after the  Irish national government had been broken up long before.
Confusion of titles, property, and traditions became worse  confounded. How could the shanachies,
bards, and brehons, any  longer agree in their pedigrees, songs, and legal decisions?  England
had thus early adopted in Ireland the stern and  coldhearted policy which, centuries later,
she used to destroy  the native and Mohammedan dynasties in Hindostan. It was not yet  divide
et impera on a large scale, but the division was pushed  as far as lay in the power England,
to the very last elements of  the social system.

From this time forward, then, we must not be surprised to find  England welcoming to her bosom
unworthy sons of Ireland, whom  she wished to make her tools. There was always, either in Dublin
or London, a sufficient supply of materials out of which crown's  chiefs might be manufactured;
the government made it part of its  policy to hold in its hands and train to its purposes certain
members of each of the ruling families--of the O'Neills,  O'Reillys, O'Donnells, O'Connors,
and others.

It was no longer, therefore, the rooting out and exterminating  policy which prevailed, but
one as fatal in its results, which  would have utterly destroyed Irish national feeling, to
set up  in its place, not only English manners, language, and customs,  but also English schism,
heresy, philosophical speculations --as  the Four Masters have it --finally, materialism and
nihilism.

But, in real sober fact, the scheme proved almost an utter  failure, owing to the far-seeing
good sense of the people. The  national spirit revived among the upper classes, both native
and  of English descent--owing to the decided stand taken by the  inferior clansmen.

The Desmonds and Kildares, in the south, the O'Donnells,  Maguires, and others, in the north,
soon showed themselves  animated by a new spirit of ardent Catholicism; created, in fact, a
new nation, quite apart from, or rather embracing, clanship,  well-nigh destroyed the English
power, kept Elizabeth, during  the whole of her reign, in constant agitation and fear, and
would have succeeded in recovering their independence, and  securing freedom of worship, had
not their good-nature been  imposed upon by the hypocrisy and faithlessness of the Stuarts,
to whom they always looked for freedom in the practice of their  religion, without ever obtaining
it.

Thus did the people, the Irish race, thwart the policy of Henry,  who sought to gain over the
nobility. Their stubborn resistance  to the vastly-increased and constantly-increasing English
power,  grew at last to such proportions, and became so discouraging to  their oppressors,
that the old policy of utter extermination was  resumed by Cromwell and the Orange party of
the following age.

The refusal of the people, that is to say, of the bulk of the  nation, to submit to the policy
of their chieftains, and the  determination to repudiate that policy by deposing its  supporters
and choosing others in their stead, was most happy in  its effect on their whole future history.

The leaders, by accepting the new titles bestowed on them by the  English kings, by taking
their seats in Parliament, and  concurring in the various measures there passed, subjected
themselves to a foreign rule, surrendered to this rule the tribe- lands, which it was not in
their power to surrender of  themselves, gave up, in fact, their nationality, and became  English
subjects. The action of the clansmen reversed all the  fatal consequences resulting from those
acts. They remained a  nation distinct from the English, whose laws they had never  either
admitted or accepted. And, as the clan spirit declined,  under the policy of England, it only
made way for a new and a  greater spirit--religious feeling, the bond of a common religion
assaulted--which, henceforth, lay at the bottom of the whole  struggle--which, for the first
time in their history, blended  into one whole the broken clans, gave them a unity and a  consistency
never known till then, and thus the real nation was  born.

They might boast, therefore, not only of not having lost their  autonomy, but of being more
firmly than ever knit together; they  could conclude treaties of alliance with foreign powers,
without  committing treason, and they soon began to use that power; they  could even declare
war against England, and it was not rebellion. The successors of Henry VIII. acted constantly
as though the  Irish nation had really subjected itself to English kings and  English rule,
as though the acceptance of a few titles by a few  chieftains (who were deposed by their people
as soon as the fact  was known) signified an acknowledgment on the part of the Irish  people
of their absorption by the English feudal system; they  appeared "horrified" when they saw
the successors of those  chieftains reject those titles and resume their own names; and  they
called the Irish "rebels" and "traitors" for going to war  with England--a country they had
never acknowledged as their  ruler--and introducing into their country Spanish, Italian, and
French troops as allies.

The explanation of the whole mystery consisted in the simple  fact that the people, the nation,
had steadily refused to  sanction the act of their leaders; and all the pretensions of  English
kings, statesmen, and lawyers, were valueless. Those  Irishmen who subsequently entered into
the various Geraldine and  Ulster confederacies, and summoned foreign armies to their aid,
were neither rebels nor traitors, but citizens of an independent  state, possessing their international
rights as citizens of any  independent country. This we have seen in a previous chapter,  and
Sir John Davies has been obliged to confess its truth,  admitting the difference between a
tributary and a subject  nation.

A glance shows us the importance of the almost unanimous outcry  of the clansmen of Tyrone,
Tyrconnell, and of other parts of  Ireland. Owing to the patriotic feeling of these, nothing
remained for the English but to punish the Irish people for  their resolve of holding to their
religion, and to declare a  religious war against them, though they called them all the time
rebels and traitors. This is the view an impartial historian  should take of those mighty events.

But, it is well to look more closely at this new element, which  then showed itself for the
first time in Irish national life,  the people, irrespective of clanship; the people, as influencing
the leaders, and thus becoming a living--nay, a ruling power in  the state. And, lest any of
our readers should not be convinced  that such really was the case, we mention here a fact,
which  will come more prominently before us in the next chapter, that,  at the end of Elizabeth's
reign, the efforts of all her large  armies and her tortuous policy for changing the religion
of the  country, resulted in the grand total of sixty converts to  Protestantism from the noble
class, not one of the clansmen  turning apostate!

Bridget of Kildare would not have been surprised at this, to  judge by what we have previously
heard from her.

In order to find the explanation of this wonderful fact, we must  compare the Irish people
with other nationalities, and we may  then easily distinguish its peculiar features, so persistent,
so  enduring, we may say, indestructible. We shall find that what  this people was three hundred
years ago, it is to this day, with  a greater unity of feeling, devotedness to principle, and
higher  aims than any people of modern times.

In antiquity, the people, in the Christian sense of the word,  never appeared in the field
of history. In the despotic  countries of Asia and Africa, there was and could be no question
of such a thing; it was an inert mass used at will by the despot. The Phoenician states, and
Carthage in particular, were mere  oligarchies, with commerce for their chief object, and slaves
for mercantile or warlike purposes. In the republics of Greece  and Italy, the aristocracy
ruled, and when, after centuries of  bloody struggles and revolutions, the subjects of Rome
were  finally granted the rights of citizenship, the despotism of the  empire suddenly appeared,
crushing both plebs and patricians.

Whenever in those ancient governments we find the lower classes  unable longer to bear the
heavy yoke imposed upon them,  revolting against a despotism which had grown insupportable,
and  claiming their natural rights, it was merely a surging of waves  raised to mountain-height
by the fury of a sudden storm, but  soon allayed and subdued beneath the inflexible will of
stern  rulers. The people was a mere mob, whose violence, when  successful, fatally carried
destruction with it; and, though it  is seemingly full of a terrible power which nothing can
resist,  its power lasts but for a very short time. Could it only outlast  the destruction
of all superior rulers, it would end by  destroying itself.

If we would meet with the people, such as we conceive it to be  in accordance with our Christian
ideas, we must come down to  that period of time which followed close upon the organization
of Christendom, namely, to the much-abused middle ages.  Feudalism, it is true, withstood its
expansion for a long time,  kept alive the remnants of slavery which it had found in Europe
at its birth, or at best invented serfdom as a somewhat milder  substitute for the former degradation
of man. But feudalism  itself was not strong enough to prevent the natural consequences  of
the vigorous Christianity which at that time prevailed; and  kings, dukes, and feudal bishops,
were compelled to grant  charters which insured the freedom of the subject. Then the  people
appeared, in the cities first, afterward in the country,  where, however, the peasants had
still to drag on for a weary  time the chains of secular serfdom.

Thus the people lived in Spain, where they fought valiantly  under their lords for centuries
against the Crescent, so that in  some provinces all classes were ennobled, and not a single
plebeian was to be found, which simply means that the whole mass  of the citizens formed the
people. Thus the people had an early  existence in Italy, where every city almost became a
centre of  freedom and activity, notwithstanding strife and continual feuds. Thus the people
had its life in France, where the learned men  of Catholic universities determined with precision
the limits of  kingly power, and where the outburst of the Crusades brought all  classes together
to fight for Christ, forming but one body  engaged alike throughout in a holy cause. Thus,
finally, the  people had its life even in Germany and England, where real  liberty, though
of later birth, afterward remained more deeply  rooted in social life.

In all those countries, it was called populus Christianus; it  had its associations, its guilds,
its Christian customs, its  privileges, its rights. Its existence was acknowledged by law,
and it possessed everywhere either Christian codes, or at least  local customs for its safeguards.
It gradually grew into a great  power, and took the name of the "Third Estate," ranking directly
after the clergy, and nobility. Its members knew and respected  the gradations of the social
hierarchy as then existing. The  monarchs in most countries, in France chiefly, sided with
it  whenever the nobles sought to oppress it, and its deputies were  heard in the Parliaments
of the various nations of Christendom.

How many millions of human beings lived happily during several  centuries under these great
institutions of mediaeval times! And  if the members of the people at that time could seldom
rise  above their order, except through the Church, this unfortunate  inability often prevented
dangerous and subversive ambitions,  and was thus really the source and cause of, happiness
to all.  Governments at that period lasted for thousands of years; men  could rely on the stability
of things, and great enterprises  could be undertaken and carried to a successful termination.

But throughout all Europe, with the single exception of Ireland,  the people had to contend
against the feudal power; and it was  only very gradually, and step by step, that it could
creep up to  its rights. In Ireland, as we have seen, feudalism had failed to  strike root;
so that the clansmen who represented there what the  people did elsewhere, never having been
subject to slavery or  serfdom, possessed all the liberties which the ordinary class of  men
can claim. They had always borne their share in the affairs  of their own territory, at least
by the willing help they  afforded to their leaders, during the Danish wars chiefly, and  afterward
throughout the four hundred years of struggle with the  Anglo-Normans. The people were the
real conquerors under the  lead of their chieftains, and the perpetual enjoyment of their 
beloved customs was the privilege of the least among them as  much as of the proudest of their
nobles. They themselves were  well aware of this, and to their own efforts no less than to
the  heads of the clans they attributed the advantages which they had  gained.

Thus, when the conduct of their chieftain was not in accordance  with what the clansmen considered
the right, they were ready to  express their disapproval of his actions by deposing him, and
placing their allegiance at the service of the man of their  choice.

But though this course of action is true of the whole period of  their history, more especially
from the date of their becoming  Christian up to the time when the blows of religious persecution
welded them into one people, yet they were divided and often at  war among themselves. But
no sooner did the work of perversion  make itself felt among them, than we behold the clansmen
exhibiting a unity of feeling on many points which never marked  them before. So that thenceforth
the separated clans gradually  began to merge into Irishmen.

This unity of feeling showed itself, above all, in the deep love  for their religion, which
at once became universal and all- pervading. This love had undoubtedly existed before, as it
could  scarcely have originated and swollen to such proportions all at  once; but as the stroke
of the hammer reveals the spark, so the  force of opposition enkindled the flame and caused
it to burst  forth into view. At the first blow it showed itself throughout  the island, and
thus the people became once and forever united.

This unity of feeling was displayed likewise in an ardent love  for their country in contradistinction
to the special locality  of the tribe. Thus arose a true fraternal union with all their  countrymen
of whatever county or city. The old antagonism  between family and family only appeared at
fitful and unguarded  intervals; but in general each one grasped the hand of another  only
as a Catholic and an Irishman.

This is clearly attributable to their religion. Catholicity  knows no place; its very name
is opposed to restrictions of this  character. Could it carry out its purpose, which is that
of its  Divine founder, it would make one of all nations; and, to a  certain extent, it has
achieved this task. Differences of  character, which are deeply impressed in the nature of
various  branches of the human family, are indeed never totally  obliterated by it; but such
differences disappear when kneeling  at the same altar and receiving the same sacraments. The
Catholic religion is the only one which is, has ever been, and  must ever claim to be, universal;
the religions of antiquity  were purely local.

Since the coming of our Lord, no heresy, no schism has ever  pretended to the reality of a
catholic existence, and, if the  word is self-applied by certain sects, the world laughs at
it as  a meaningless thing. The Catholic Church alone has truly claimed  and possessed such
a character.

But if of all men it makes one family with respect to spiritual  matters, what unanimity of
feeling must it not create in a  single nation truly imbued with its spirit, which is attacked
for its sake? Until the reign of Henry VIII., the Irish, in  their struggle with England, could
summon no religious thought  to their aid, since England was Catholic also, and the Norman
nobles established among them followed the same calendar,  possessed the same churches, the
same creed, the same sacraments. But as soon as the English power was stamped with heresy,
the  opposition to that power assumed a religious aspect, and no  longer restricted itself
to the clans immediately attacked, but  spread throughout the whole nation.

To bring the case down to some particular point, in order to  render our meaning more clear,
a priest or monk, who was hunted  down, was no longer sure of refuge in his own district, and
among men of his own sept merely, but he was equally welcomed in  the castle of the chieftain
or the hut of the peasant through  the length and breadth of the land. Any Irishman, subject
to  fine, imprisonment, or torture, for the sake of his religion,  did not find sympathy restricted
to his own circle of friends or  acquaintances, but, even if tried and prosecuted in a corner
of  the island, far away from his own home, he could count upon the  sympathy of as many friends
as there were Irish Catholics to  witness his sufferings. This state of things was certainly
unknown before.

Religion, when deep, is the strongest feeling of the human heart, and endows the nation steeped
in it with an unconquerable  strength. To judge of the intensity of religious feeling in the
Irish, it should be remembered that it was the only legacy left  them after every thing else
had been taken away, and, though it  was the special object of attack, they were to be stripped
one  by one of their old customs, their own chieftains, their houses  of study and of prayer,
their religious and secular teachers,  nay, of the chance even of educating their children,
of the  right to possess not merely their own soil, but even to  cultivate a few acres of it,
nay, of their very language itself,  in a word, of all that makes a country dear to man. For
ages  were they destined to remain outcasts and strangers on the soil  which was their own;
abject and ignorant paupers, without the  faintest possibility of rising in the social scale.

One thing only did they keep in their hearts, their faith,  though stripped of all the exterior
circumstances which adorn it, and reduced to its simplest elements. But at least it was their
religion, to deprive them of which, all the wealth, resources,  armies, laws of a powerful
nation, were to be strained to the  utmost during long ages. How, then, could they fail to
love and  cherish it, to cling fast to it, as to an inestimable treasure,  the only real one
indeed they could possess on earth, where all  else passes away?

Here, then, always presupposing the paramount influence of the  grace of God, lay the secret
of that indestructible strength and  unwearied energy manifested by Irishmen, from the middle
of the  sixteenth century down, and we are enabled thus to appreciate  the value of that unity
which persecution alone fastened upon  them.

To the love of religion, which was the origin of that unity,  love of country was soon added,
and by love of country we here  understand the love of the whole island, not merely of the
particular sept to which the individual belonged, or of the  particular spot in which he happened
to be born. Such had been  the divisions among the people and the chieftains hitherto, that
England could attack one sept without fearing the revolt of the  others, nay, was often assisted
by an adverse clan. And so  thoroughly had the Anglo-Normans adopted the native manners,  that
the Kildares were frequently at war with the Desmonds,  though both belonged to the same Geraldine
family; and the  Ormonds kept up a constant feud with both the Geraldine branches. When Henry
VIII. almost destroyed the Kildares, we do not find  that the Desmonds felt their loss at first;
perhaps they even  rejoiced at it.

It was the same with the natives, particularly with the 0'Neills  and the O'Donnells, in the
north. The whole island and its  general interests seemed the concern of no one, so taken up
were  they by the affairs of their own particular locality. And this  state of feeling had
existed from the beginning, even among holy  men. The songs of Columba, of Cormac McCullinan,
even of the  Fenian heroes of old, all celebrated the victories of one sept  over another,
or the beauties of some one spot in the island, in  preference to all others.

Nay, so prevalent was this clannish spirit, even at the  beginning of the religious troubles,
that Henry VIII., and  Elizabeth after him, gained their successes by directing their  attacks
against particular places, so certain were they that the  other districts would not come to
the rescue.

The feeling of nationality, of what we call patriotism, wrestled  along time in the throes
of birth, before coming forth, and it  was only during the latter half of Elizabeth's reign
that those  confederacies were formed, which included the whole country and  called in even
foreign aid.

But this feeling began to appear as soon as religion was  attacked; and therefore do we call
this epoch the true birth of  a people.

And as it is with the people chiefly that we are concerned, it  is to our purpose to remark
here that they gradually lost sight  of their petty quarrels and local prejudices in losing
their  chieftains; they began to look for leaders among themselves, and, understanding at last
that the whole island was threatened by  the invading policy of England, they were to fight
for the whole, and not for any special district.

Then, for the first time, did Ireland become a reality to them,  an existing personality, a
desolate queen weeping over the fate  of her children, calling, with the voice of a stricken
mother,  those who survived to her aid, and worthy, by her beauty and  misfortunes, of their
most heroic and disinterested efforts.

Religious feeling, then, first made the Irish a nation, and gave  them that unity of thought
which they now exhibit everywhere,  even in the remotest quarters of the globe, wherever they
may  choose their place of exile. And if there still exists among  them something of that former
predilection for the place where  they first saw the light, the other parts of Erin are at
least  included in their deep love, and they would shed their blood for  their country, irrespective
of prejudice of place.

Thus have they come at last to love each other as men of no  other nation ever did. In order
to understand this thoroughly,  we must remember that for ages they, as a people, have been
oppressed and held in bondage by a stern and powerful nation.  They had to defend themselves
in turn against the most open and  the most insidious attacks. Bereft in many cases of all
the  means of defence, they had nothing left them, save their  religion, and the support they
could afford each other.

If, by any stretch of imagination, we could place ourselves in  their position, understand
their language when they met each  other in their huts, in their morasses and bogs, in their
mountain fastnesses and desolate moors, could we only enter into  their feelings and see the
working of their minds, we might  catch a faint conception of the affection which they must
have  felt for brothers waging the deadly fight against the same  enemies, and contending in
a seemingly endless and hopeless  struggle against the same terrible odds. Union, affection,
devotedness, are words too weak to serve here.

For this reason, also, do we find the Irish people stamped with  peculiarities which we find
in no others. In antiquity, as we  have said, the people could never rise to any thing greater
than  a mob; in modern times such has also often been the case. With  the Irish it is not,
and could not be so. Their aim has always  been too lofty, their struggle of too long duration,
their  morality too genuine and too pure. For their aim has constantly  been to rescue their
country; their struggle has lasted nearly  three hundred years; their morality has ever been
directed by  the sweetest religion. Extreme cases of oppression such as  theirs may have occasionally
given rise to violent outbreaks  inevitable in human despair; but, on the whole, it may to
their  honor be fearlessly said, that they have preserved, almost  throughout, a due regard
for social hierarchy and all kinds of  rights. Many of them have died of hunger, rather than
touch the  property of a rich and hostile neighbor. Where else can we find  such an example?

This union of the people, which was thus brought about by  religious persecution, included
not only the natives of the old  race, but the Anglo-Irish themselves, who were brought by
degrees to a unanimity of feeling which they had never known  before, although they had previously
adopted Irish manners - a  unanimity which the Lutheran Archbishop Browne had foreseen and
openly denounced beforehand.

In a letter, dated "Dublin, May, 1538," to the Lord Privy Seal,  he said: "It is observed that,
ever since his Highness's  ancestors had this nation in possession, the old natives have  been
craving foreign powers to assist and raise them; and now  both English race and Irish begin
to oppose your lordship's  orders"

This man, who was altogether worldly and without faith,  displayed in this a keen political
foresight far above that of  the ordinary counsellors of England's king. He openly announced
what actually came to pass only toward the middle of Elizabeth's  reign, and what the horrors
of the Cromwellian wars were to  complete - the thorough fusion of Irish and Anglo-Norman 
Catholics, both transplanted to Connaught, perishing under the  sword of the soldier, the rope
of the hangman, or dying of  starvation in the recesses of their mountains - united forever
in the bonds of martyrdom.

The "birth of the Irish people" was to be insured by another  measure of the English Government
- the suppression of religious  houses. We must, in conclusion, turn to this.

In the annals of the Four Masters, under the year 1537, we read:  "A heresy and a new error
broke out in England, the effect of  pride, vainglory, avarice, sensual desire, and the prevalence
of  a variety of scientific and philosophical speculations, so that  the people of England
went into opposition to the Pope and to  Rome.

"At the same time, they followed a variety of opinions; and,  adopting the old law of Moses,
after the manner of the Jewish  people, they gave the title of Head of the Church of God, during
his reign, to the king. They ruined the orders who were  permitted to hold worldly possessions,
namely, monks, canons  regular, nuns, and Brethren of the Cross, etc . . . . They broke  into
the monasteries, they sold their roofs and bells; so that  there was not a monastery from Arran
of the Saints to the Iccian  Sea that was not broken and scattered, except only a few in  Ireland."

And, under 1540, they say: "The English, in every place  throughout Ireland, where they established
their power,  persecuted and banished the nine religious orders, and  particularly they destroyed
the monastery of Monaghan, and  beheaded the guardian and a number of friars."

We may add that, at the restoration of the old faith under Queen  Mary, nothing had to be restored
in Ireland save the monasteries. These establishments had, almost without exception, been 
ruthlessly destroyed.

In our previous considerations, we have spoken of no other  religious houses in Ireland, save
those of the old Columbian  order of monks, as it was called, which was a growth of the  country,
and bore so many marks of Irish peculiarities. This  continued until, communications with Rome
becoming more frequent, the various orders established in the West were successively  introduced
into Ireland. Our purpose is not to write a history  of monasticism, and therefore we do not
intend entering into  details on this point, interesting though they are. But we may  add that,
gradually, the old monasteries - from the Norman  invasion chiefly - as well as the new ones
which were  established, were placed under the rule of the various  congregations, acknowledged
by the Holy See. It seems that the  monasteries founded by St. Columba himself afterward submitted
to the rule of St. Benedict, the others, for the most part,  embracing that of the canons regular
of St. Augustine; but the  precise epoch of these changes is not known. It is certain,  however,
that the Benedictines, Cistercians, and Bernardines,  were introduced into the country at a
very early date, together  with the four mendicant orders of Franciscans, Dominicans,  Carmelites,
and Augustinians.

The pretext for their destruction was, of course, the same in  England as in all the other
countries of Europe - their need of  reformation; but it does not appear that even this pretence
was  put forward in the case of the Irish monasteries. The fact was,  the breath of suspicion
could not rest upon those stainless  establishments in the Isle of Saints. In the idea of the
natives, their very names had ever been synonymous with holiness and all  Christian virtues,
and so they continued to enjoy the most  unbounded popularity. The fact of the English Government
selecting them as a special point of attack is in itself  sufficient to vindicate their character
from any aspersion. Two  measures were deemed necessary and sufficient for the purpose of 
detaching Ireland from its allegiance to the Holy See, and of  introducing schism, if not heresy,
into the country. One, and  certainly the most efficacious of these, was thought to be the
destruction of convents for both sexes. This, we affirm, is  ample apology for their inmates.

But this general reflection is not enough for our purpose, which  is, to delineate and bring
out the true character of the nation.  It is, therefore, fitting to give an idea of the extent
to which  the monastic influence prevailed, and of the nature of the  people who cherished,
loved, and accepted it at all times.

It may be said that the Christian Church, as established in the  island by St. Patrick, rested
mainly for its support on the  religious orders. In many cases the abbots of monasteries were
superior to bishops, and, as a general rule, the hierarchy of  the Church was, as it were,
subordinate to monastic  establishments.1 (1 Vide Montalembert's "Monks of the West:  Bollandists,
Oct.," tome xii., p. 888.) At the time we speak of,  indeed, such was no longer the case; but
the previously-existing  state of reciprocal subordination between abbots and bishops  during
several centuries, in Ireland,, had left deep traces in  the nature of the institutions and
of the people itself. It may  be said that in the mind of an Irishman the existence of  Christianity
almost presupposed a numerous array of convents and  religious houses. And this idea of theirs
can scarcely be called  a wrong one, nor did they exaggerate the value of religious  orders,
since their estimate of them was no higher than that of  Christ himself and his Church.

If with justice it was said that the French monarchy was  established by bishops, with equal
justice may it be said that  the Irish people had been educated, nay, created by monks. The
monks had taken the place left vacant by the Druids, and thus  they became for the Christian
what the others had been for the  pagan Irish. For a long period the Irish monks formed a very
considerable portion of the population. In their body were  concentrated the gifts of science,
art, holiness, even miracles  without number, unless we are to suppose that the hagiography
of  the island was intrusted to the care of idiots incapable of  ascertaining current facts.
The vast literature of the island,  greater indeed than that of any other Christian country
at the  time, was either the product of monastic intellect and learning,  or at least had been
translated and preserved by monks. The  gifted Eugene O'Curry could fill numbers of the pages
of his  great work with the bare titles of the books which are known to  have issued from the
Irish monasteries, of which but a few  fragments remain; and no sensible man who has read his
book can  affect to despise establishments which could produce so many  proofs of fancy, intellect,
and erudition. The scattered  fragments of that rich literature, which had escaped the fury
of  the Scandinavian, the ignorance and rapacity of the early Anglo- Norman, the blind fanaticism
of the Puritan, could still in the  seventeenth century furnish materials enough for the immense
compilations of the Four Masters, Ward, Wadding, Lynch, and  Colgan.

What we have here stated is the simple, unvarnished truth; yet  it is but yesterday that the
subject has really begun to be  studied.

But what is chiefly worthy our attention is, that the  monasteries were not only the seats
of learning and literature  in Ireland, but they constituted and comprised in themselves  every
thing of value which the nation possessed. As they were  found everywhere, there was not room
for much else in the  department they filled in the island. Take them away, and the  country
is a blank. So well were the crafty counsellors of Henry  VIII. and Elizabeth satisfied of
this, that they insisted on the  destruction of the monasteries, and turned all their efforts
to  carry their purpose into effect.

Feudalism had failed in its endeavor to cover the country with  castles; the native royalty
and inferior chieftainship being  engaged in constant bickerings with each other and with the
common foe, had been unable to enrich the country with monuments  of art and wealthy palaces;
the Church alone had accomplished  whatever had been effected in this way, and in the Church
the  monks rather than the bishops had for a long time exercised the  preponderating influence.
Hence, it may be truly said that  Ireland was essentially a monastic country, more so than
any  other nation of Christendom.

This fact explains how it happened that the monastic  institutions could not be destroyed.
The convent-walls might be  battered down, the more valuable edifices might be converted  into
dwellings for the new Protestant aristocracy, their  property might go to enrich upstarts,
and feed the rapacity of  greedy conquerors, but the institution itself could not perish.

It is true that in all Catholic countries this seems also to be  the case; but wide is the
difference with regard to Ireland. In  all places religious establishments have frequently
been the  object of anti-Christian fury and rage. They have often been  destroyed, and seem
to have utterly disappeared, when the world  has been surprised by their speedy resurrection.
The fact is,  the Church needs them, and the practice of evangelical counsels  must forever
be in a state of active operation upon earth, since  the grace of God always inspires with
it a number of select  souls. God is the source; consequently the stream must flow,  since
the life-spring is eternal and ever-running.

But in other countries besides the one under our consideration  religious houses and institutions
have sometimes been  effectually rooted out, at least for a time. When the French  Constituent
Assembly, by one of its destructive decrees, closed  those establishments all over France,
such of them as by their  laxity deserved to die, ceased at once to exist, and poured  forth
their inmates to swell the ranks of a corrupt society, and  add religious degradation to the
immoral filth of the world.  Those religious houses, within whose walls the spirit of God had
not ceased to dwell, were indeed closed and emptied; but their  inmates endeavored to live
their lives of religion in some  unknown and obscure spot, until the madness of the Convention,
and the Reign of Terror which soon followed, rendered the  continuation of the holy exercises
of any community absolutely  impossible. But mark this well: the holy aims of the monks and
nuns found no response in the nation, and, finding themselves  almost entirely rejected by
a faithless people, with no resting- place in the whole extent of the country, a sudden and
total  interruption of religious ascetic life in the once most Catholic  nation of Europe was
the result.

The same may soon come to pass in our days in Italy and Spain,  until better times return to
those now distracted countries, and  the extremities of evil bring them back to something of
their  primitive faith.

Not so in Ireland: the communities could continue to exist even  when turned out-of-doors,
because the nation wanted them, and  could afford them asylum and peace in the worst periods
of  persecution. And this great fact of the mutual love between  monks, priests, and people,
contributed also in no small degree  to that union among all, which henceforth became the 
characteristic feature of a people hitherto split up into  hostile clans. Nothing probably
tended so much toward effecting  the birth of the nation as the deep attachment existing between
the Irish and their religious orders. The latter had always  preached peace and often reconciled
enemies, and brought furious  men to the practice of Christian charity and forbearance.

We have seen instances of this when the clans were all powerful  and the chieftains thought
of nothing but of "preyings," as they  called them, compelling their enemies to give "hostages"
and  devastating the territories of hostile clans. Then the voice of  the monk came to be heard
in the midst of contending passions,  and real miracles were often performed by them in changing
into  lambs men who resembled roaring lions or devouring wolves; but  their action became much
more efficacious when nothing was left  to the people save their religion and the "friars."
These, it is  true, could no longer reside within the walls of their convents,  but on that
very account their life became more truly one with  that of the people.

Sometimes they found refuge in the large, hospitable dwellings  of the native nobility, where,
during the latter part of the  reign of Henry VIII. and the whole of that of Elizabeth, the
almost independent power of the chieftains could still afford  them succor. Sometimes also
the humbler dwelling of the farmer  or the peasant offered them a sure asylum, wherein they
could  practise their ministry in almost perfect freedom, owing to the  sure and inviolable
secrecy of the inmates and neighbors. For a  great distance around, the Catholics knew of their
abode, were  often visited by them, even without mach danger of the fact  becoming known to
spies and informers. And this brings naturally  before us a new feature of the Irish character.

Their nature, which was so expansive and passionate on all other  subjects, so that to keep
a secret was an impossible feat to  them, wore another character when danger to their religion
or  its ministers required of them to set a seal on their lips. For  years frequently, large
numbers of priests and religious could  not only exist, but move and work among them, without
their  place of abode becoming known to the swarms of enemies who  surrounded them. The nation
was trained to prudence and  discretion by centuries of oppression and tyranny. Many facts
of  this nature are known and recorded in the dark annals of those  times; but how many more
will be known never!

Thus, in the year 1588, during the worst part of Elizabeth's  reign, "John O'Malloy, Cornelius
Dogherty, and Walfried Ferral,  of the order of St. Francis, fell finally victims to the malice
of the heretics. They had spent eight years in administering the  consolations of religion
throughout the mountainous districts of  Leinster. Many families of Carlow, Wicklow, and Wexford,
had  been compelled to take a refuge in the mountains from the fury  of the English troops.
The good Franciscans shared in all their  perils, travelling about from place to place, by
night; they  visited the sick, consoled the dying, and offered up the sacred  mysteries for
all. Oftentimes the hard rock was their only bed;  but they willingly embraced nakedness, and
hunger, and cold, to  console their afflicted brethren." - (Moran's Archbishops of  Dublin.)

In these few words, we have a picture of the mountain monastery.  During those eight years,
how many Irish were consoled and  comforted by those few laborers, who, driven from their holy
home, had chosen to live in the wilderness, and practise their  rule among the wandering people
of three large counties,  receiving in return the substance, the love, and loving secrecy 
of their flock! We have only to figure to ourselves this scene,  or similar, repeated in every
corner of the land, and we may  then easily understand how the Irish people were brought to
the  unanimous resolve of standing by each other, and how, from the  state of complete division
which formerly prevailed, the  elements of a compact, solid, and indestructible body, began
to  form.

We attribute this "birth of a nation" to Henry VIII., because  the change which he tried to
introduce into the religion of the  island constituted the occasion and origin of it; and,
although  his reign never witnessed that perfect union of the people which  came later on,
nevertheless, it is true that then it surely  began, and its origin was the attempt to establish
his spiritual  supremacy in Ireland.

This feeling of union and strength in love went on growing, and  showed itself more and more,
wring the two centuries which  followed, when so many scenes similar to the one described were
enacted in the remotest parts of the island. God, in his mercy,  provided it with many high
mountains, difficult of access, whose  paths were known only to the natives. In these fastnesses,
the  holy men, who had been driven from their dwellings and their  churches, could rest in
peace and attend to the duties of their  office. They could even recruit their shattered forces,
admit  novices, and train them up; and thus their rule continued to be  observed, and their
existence as a body protracted, long after  their enemies imagined that they had perished utterly.
As soon  as quiet was restored, when persecution abated, and breathing- time was given them,
so that they could show themselves, with  some safety, more openly, they visited their old
abodes, often  found some portions of the ruins which admitted of repair, and  dwelt again
in security where their predecessors had dwelt for  centuries.

The peasant's hut would also often afford them shelter; some  solitary farm-house on the borders
of a lake, or near a deep  morass, took the name of their monastery; some cranogue in the 
lake, or dry spot in the thick of the morass, which they could  reach by paths known to themselves
only, was their asylum in  times of extraordinary danger. In ordinary times, the farm-house,
to which they had given the name of their lost monastery, was  their convent. It was thus the
brothers O'Cleary, and their  companions, lived for years, editing the work of the "Four  Masters,"
until, at length, they succeeded in publishing their  extraordinary "Annals." The manuscripts
which, in spite of the  raging persecution, and the "penal laws," they traversed the  whole
island to collect, were preserved, with a reverend care,  in a poor Irish hut. Literary treasures
which have since  unfortunately perished, but which they saved for a time from the  reach of
the enemy, and which they perpetuated by having them  printed, filled the poor presses and
the old furniture of their  asylum, and, owing purely to the friendly help of those who had
given them shelter, they were enabled to enrich the world with  their marvellous compilation.

From the mountain and the hut, on the river-side, the monks were  sometimes allowed to move
to their former dwellings, at the risk, nevertheless, of their liberty and lives. What their
ancestors  had done during the Scandinavian invasions, when the monasteries  were so often
destroyed and rebuilt, that did the monks of the  sixteenth and seventeenth centuries likewise
in many parts of  the island.

Thus, Father Mooney, a Franciscan, relates that his monastery -  that of Multifarnham - having
been totally destroyed by Sir  Francis Shean, and many monks having been killed, he, with a
few  others, after long and extraordinary adventures, came back to  the spot, then abandoned
by the enemy, and "before the feast of  the Nativity of our Lord, we built up a little house
on the site  of the monastery, and there we dwelt who were left after the  flight . . . . .
Afterward, Father Nehemias Gregan, the father  guardian, began to build a church, and to repair
the monastery,  and for this purpose caused much wood to be cut in the territory  of Deabhna
McLochlain; and when they had roofed a chapel and  some other buildings, there came the soldiers
of another Sir  Francis Ringtia, and they burned down the monastery again, and  carried off
some of the brethren captive to Dublin."

This convent of Multifarnham was raised a third time; and, in  fact, remained in possession
of the Franciscans throughout the  persecution, so that to this day the old church has been
restored by them, and the modern house, which now forms their convent,  is built on the site
of the old monastery.

Such for a long time was the case with many other religious  establishments; for the same Father
Mooney, writing as late as  1624, says: "When Queen Elizabeth strove to make all Ireland  fall
away from the Catholic faith, and a law was passed  proscribing all the members of the religious
orders, and giving  their monasteries and possessions to the treasury, while all the  others
took to flight, or at least quitted their houses, and,  for safety's sake, lived privately
and singly among their  friends, and receiving no novices, the order of St. Francis  alone
ever remained, as it were, unshaken. For, though they were  violently driven out of some convents
to the great towns, and  the convents were profanely turned into dwellings for seculars,  and
some of the fathers suffered violence, and even death; yet,  in the country and other remote
places, they ever remained in  the convents, celebrating the divine office according to the
custom of religious, their preachers preaching to the people and  performing their other functions,
training up novices and  preserving the conventual buildings, holding it sinful to lay  aside,
or even hide, their religious habit, though for an hour,  through any human fear. And, every
three years, they held their  regular provincial chapters in the woods of the neighborhood,
and observed the rule as it is kept in provinces that are in  peace."

Thus, when the Cromwellian persecution began, the religious  orders were again flourishing
in Ireland. They had obtained from  the Stuarts some relaxation in the execution of the laws,
and,  as all at the time were fighting for Charles I. against the  Parliamentarians, it was
only natural that the authorities did  not carry out the barbarous laws to their full extent
in the  island.

It is no matter of great surprise, therefore, that, in 1641,  more than one hundred years after
the decree of Henry VIII., the  Franciscan order still possessed sixty-two flourishing houses
in  Ireland, each with a numerous community, besides ten convents of  nuns of the order of
St. Clare. The acts of the General Chapter  of the Dominicans, held in Rome in 1656, referring
to the same  persecution of Cromwell, state that, when it began, there were  forty-three convents
of the order, containing about six hundred  inmates, of whom only one-fourth survived the calamity.
The  Jesuits were eighty in number, in 1641, of whom only seventeen  remained when the storm
had passed away. From a petition  presented to the Sacred Congregation, in 1654, we learn that
all  the Capuchins had been banished, except a few who remained on  the island, where they
lived as "shepherds," "herdsmen," or  "tillers of the soil."

All the decrees of the Parliaments of Henry VIII. and Elizabeth  had not succeeded, in the
space of a century, in destroying  monasticism; the Cromwellian war alone seemed to have done
so,  as it left the entire nation almost at the last gasp, on the  verge of annihilation. Nevertheless,
a few years saw the orders  again revive and prepare to start their holy work anew. Henry 
VIII. then, and his vicar, Cromwell, deceived themselves in  thinking that they had put an
end to monasticism in the land  which had been the cradle of so many families of religious.
They  succeeded only in intensifying the determination of Irishmen not  to allow their nationality
to be absorbed in that of England. If  any thing was calculated to nourish and keep alive that
sentiment in their hearts, it was their daily communing with the  holy men who shared their
distress, their mountain-retreats,  their poverty in the bogs, their wretchedness in the woods
and  glens. If monasticism had created and nurtured the nation on its  first becoming Christian,
it gave to the people a second birth  holier than the first, because consecrated by martyrdom.
Henceforth, divided clans and antagonistic septs were to be  unknown among them: only Catholic
Irishmen were to remain ranked  around the successors of "the saints" of old, all determined
to  be what they were, or die. But as laws, edicts, and measures of  fanatic frenzy cannot
destroy a nation, the new people was  destined to survive for better and brighter days.

We have anticipated the course of events somewhat, in order to  pass in review the chief facts
connected with the designs of the  English Government upon the religious orders. These few
words  will suffice to give the reader an idea of the new character  which such events impressed
upon the Irish nation. Every day saw  it more compact; every day the resolve to fight to the
death for  God's cause, grew stronger; the old occasions of division grew  less and less, and
that unanimity, which suffering for a noble  cause naturally gives rise to in the human heart,
showed itself  more and more. A nation, in truth, was being born in the throes  of a wide-spread
and long-continued calamity; but long ages were  in store in times to come to reward it for
the misfortunes of  the past.

It is a remarkable thing that, when England, through fear of  civil war, was compelled to grant
Catholic emancipation in 1829,  when Irish agitators succeeded in wrenching it from the enemy,
and obtaining it, not only for themselves, but likewise for  their English Catholic brethren,
the British statesmen, who  finally consented to such a tardy measure of justice, steadily
refused, nevertheless, to extend the boon to the religious  orders. These remained under the
ban, and so they remain still.  The "penal laws" were never repealed for them, and, even to
this  day, they are, according to law, strictly prohibited from  "receiving novices" under
all the barbarous penalties formerly  enacted and never abrogated.

But the nation has constantly considered this exception as not  to be taken into account. The
religious orders now existing are  under the protection of the people, and England has never
dared  to use even a threat against the open violation of these "laws."  Dr. Madden, in his
interesting work on "Penal Laws," gives  prominence to this fact by warmly taking up the old
theme of  thorough-going Irish Catholicity, by asserting, with force, that  "religious orders
are necessary to the Church," and that to deny  their right to exist, even though it be only
on paper in the  statute-book, is none the less an outrage against so thoroughly  Catholic
a nation as the Irish.

The only fact which appears to clash with our reflections is the  one well ascertained and
mentioned by us, that some native Irish  lords occupied certain monasteries and took their
share in the  sacrilegious plunder. But a few chieftains cannot be said to  constitute the
nation, and doubtless many of those who yielded  to the temptation, listened later to the reproving
voice of  their conscience, as in the following case, given by Miles  O'Reilly, in his "Irish
Martyrs:"

"Gelasius O'Cullenan, born of a noble family in Connaught . . .  joined the Cistercian order.
Having competed his studies in  Paris, the monastery of Boyle was destined as the field of
his  labors. On his arrival in Ireland, he found that the monastery,  with its property, had
been seized on by one of the neighboring  gentry, who was sheltered in his usurpation by the
edict of  Elizabeth. The abbot . . . went boldly to the usurping nobleman,  admonishing him
of the guilt he had incurred; and the  malediction of Heaven, which he would assuredly draw
down upon  his family. Moved by his exhortations, the nobleman restored to  him the full possession
of the monastery and lands; and, some  time after, contemplating the holy life of its inmates,
. . . he, too, renounced the world and joined the religious institute."

On January 12, 1559, in the second year of the reign of  Elizabeth, a Parliament was convened
in Dublin to pass the Act  of Supremacy; that is to say, to establish Lutheranism in  Ireland,
as had already been done in England, under the garb of  Episcopalianism. 	

But the attempt was fated to encounter a more determined  opposition in Dublin than it had
in London.

Sir James Ware says, in reference to it: "At the very beginning  of this Parliament, her Majestie's
well-wishers found that most  of the nobility and Commons--they were all English by blood or
birth--were divided in opinion about the ecclesiastical  government, which caused the Earl
of Sussex (Lord Deputy) to  dissolve them, and to go over to England to confer with her  Majesty
about the affairs of this kingdom.

"These differences were occasioned by the several alterations  which had happened in ecclesiastical
matters within the compass  of twelve years.

"1. King Henry VIII. held the ecclesiastical supremacy with the  first-fruits and tenths, maintaining
the seven sacraments, with  obits and mass for the living and the dead.

"2. King Edward abolished the mass, authorizing the book of  common prayers, and the consecration
of the bread and wine in  the English tongue, and establishing only two sacraments.

"3. Queen Mary, after King Edward's decease, brought all back  again to the Church of Rome,
and the papal obedience.

"4. Queen Elizabeth, on her first Parliament in England, took  away the Pope's supremacy, reserving
the tenths and first-fruits  to her heirs and successors. She put down the mass, and, for a
general uniformity of worship in her dominions, as well in  England as in Ireland, she established
the book of common  prayers, and forbade the use of popish ceremonies."

Such is the very lucid sketch furnished by Ware of the changes  which had taken place in religion
in England within the brief  space of twelve years.

The members of the Irish Parliament, although of English descent, could not so easily reconcile
themselves to these rapid changes  as their fellows in England had done; in fact, they laid
claim  to a conscience--a thing seemingly unknown to the English  members, or, if known at
all, of an exceedingly elastic and  slippery nature. Here lay the difficulty: how was it to
be  overcome? The conversation between Elizabeth and Sussex must  have been of a very interesting
character.

Returning with private instructions from the queen, the Earl of  Sussex again convened the
Parliament, which only consisted of  the so called representatives of ten counties--Dublin,
Meath,  West Meath, Louth, Kildare, Carlow, Kilkenny, Waterford,  Tipperary, and Wexford. We
see that the almost total extinction  of the Kildare branch of the Geraldines had extended
the English  Pale. The other deputies were citizens and burgesses of those  towns in which
the royal authority predominated. It  is needless to remark that the people had nothing whatever
to do  with this reversal; it merely looked on, or was already  organizing for resistance.

Nevertheless, even in that assembly the queen's agents were  obliged to have recourse to fraud
and deception, in order to  carry her measures, and it cannot be said that they obtained a
majority.

"The proceedings," according to Mr. Haverty, "are involved in  mystery, and the principal measures
are believed to have been  carried by means fraudulent and clandestine." And, in a note, he
adds: "It is said that the Earl of Sussex, to calm the protests  which were made in Parliament,
when it was found that the law  had been passed by a few members assembled privately, pledged
himself solemnly that this statute would not be enforced  generally on laymen during the reign
of Elizabeth."1 (1 Dr.  Curry, in his "Civil Wars," has collected some curious facts in  illustration
of this point.)

Whatever the means adopted to introduce and carry out the new  policy, it was certainly enacted
that "the queen was the head of  the Church of Ireland, the reformed worship was reestablished
as  under Edward VI., and the book of common prayers, with further  alterations, was reintroduced.
A fine of twelve pence was  imposed on every person who should not attend the new service,
for each offence; bishops were to be appointed only by the queen, and consecrated at her bidding.
All officers and ministers,  ecclesiastical or lay, were bound to take the oath of supremacy,
under pain of forfeiture or incapacity; and any one who  maintained the spiritual supremacy
of the Pope was to forfeit,  for his first offence, all his estates, real and personal, or
be  imprisoned for one year, if not worth twenty pounds; for the  second offence, to be liable
to praemunire; and for the third,  to be guilty of high-treason."

It was understood that those laws would be strictly enforced  against all priests and friars,
though left generally  inoperative for lay people; and, with certain exceptions,  mentioned
by Dr. Curry, such was the rule observed. Thus, the  reign of Elizabeth, which was such a cruel
one for ecclesiastics, produced few martyrs among the laity in Ireland. And, for this  reason,
Sir James Ware is able to boast that, in all the  "rebellions" of the Irish against Elizabeth;
they falsely  complained that their freedom of worship was curtailed, as  though they could
worship without either priests or churches.

But the law was passed which made it "high-treason" to assert,  three times in succession,
the spiritual supremacy of the Pope;  and, henceforth, whoever should suffer in defence of
that  Catholic dogma, was to be a traitor and not a martyr.

The woman, seated on the English throne, speedily discovered  that it was not so easy a matter
to change the religion of the  Irish as it had been to subvert completely that of her own  people.

Deprived of religious houses and means of instruction, deprived  of priests and churches, no
communication with Rome save by  stealth, the Irish still showed their oppressors that their
consciences were free, and that no acts of Parliament or  sentences of iniquitous tribunals
could prevent their remaining  Catholics.

By promising to deal as lightly with the laity as severely with  the clergy, Elizabeth felt
confident that the Catholic religion  would soon perish in Ireland, and that, with the disappearance
of the priests, the churches, sacraments, instruction, and open  communion with Rome, would
also disappear. To all seeming, her  surmises were correct; but the people were silently gathering
and uniting together as they had never done before.

The whole of Elizabeth's Irish policy may be comprised under two  headings: 1. Her policy toward
the nobles, apparently one of  compromise and toleration, but really one of destruction, and
so  rightly did they understand it that they rose and called in  foreign aid to their assistance;
2. Her church policy, one of  blood and total overthrow, which priests and people, now united
forever in the same great cause, resisted from the outset, and  finally defeated; and the decrees
of high-treason, which were  carried out with frightful barbarity, only served to confirm the
Irish people in that unanimity which the wily dealings of Henry  VIII. had originated.

I. With the nobility Elizabeth hoped to succeed by flattery,  cunning, deceit, finally by treachery,
and sowing dissension  among them; but all her efforts only served to knit them more  firmly
one to another, and to revive among them the true spirit  of nationality and patriotism.

She did not state to them that her great object was to destroy  the Catholic Church; neverthless
they should have felt and  resented it from the beginning; above all, ought they to have  given
expression to the contempt they entertained for the bait  held out to them that the "laws"
would not be executed against  them, but against Churchmen only. Had they been truly animated
by the feelings which already possessed the hearts of the people, they would have scornfuly
rejected the compromise proposed.

But she appeared to allow them perfect freedom in religious  matters; she subjected them to
no oath, as in England; the new  laws were a dead letter as far as regarded the native lords,
who  lived under other laws and remained silent, as with the lords of  the Pale. Yet nothing
was of such importance in her eyes as the  enforcement of those decrees; consequently, she
could only  accomplish her designs by deceit. George Browne, the first  Protestant Archbishop
of Dublin, had predicted that the old  Irish race and the Anglo-Irish chieftains would unite
and  combine with Continental powers in order to establish their  independence. The whole policy
of Elizabeth's reign would give  us reason to believe that she rightly understood the deep
remark  of the worldly heretic. Hence, although (or, rather, because)  the north, Ulster, was
at that time the stronghold of Catholic  feeling, and the O'Neills and O'Donnells its leaders,
she  flatters them, has them brought to her court, pardons several  "rebellions" of Shane the
Proud, and afterward loads with her  favors the young Hugh of Tyrone, whom she kept at her
own court.  She would dazzle them by the splendor of that court, by the  royal presents she
so royally lavishes upon them, and by the  prospect of greater favors still to come. Meanwhile
on the south  she turns a stern eye, and makes up her mind to destroy what is  left of the
Geraldine family. This was to be the beginning of  the war of extermination, and the nobility
which at the time was  disunited became firmly consolidated shortly after.

It is needless to go into the glorious and romantic history of  the Geraldine family. Elizabeth
chose them for the first object  of her attack, because they, as Anglo-Irish Catholics, were
more  odious in her eye than the pure Irish.

She knew that the then Earl of Desmond had escaped almost by  miracle from the island with
his younger brother John, when the  rest of the noble stock had been butchered at Tyburn. She
knew  that Gerald, after many wanderings, had finally reached Rome,  been educated under the
care of his kinsman, Cardinal Pole,  cherished as a dear son by the reigning Pontiff, had 
subsequently appeared at the Tuscan court of Cosmo de Medici;  that consequently, since his
return to Ireland, he might be  considered the chief of the Catholic party there, although,
to  save himself from attainder and hold possession of his immense  wealth in Munster, he displayed
the greatest reserve in all his  actions, appeared to respect the orders of the queen in all
things, even in her external policy against the Church; so that  if priests were entertained
in his castles, it was always by  stealth, and they were compelled to lead a life of total
retirement.

But, despite all this outward show, Elizabeth knew that Gerald  was really a sincere Catholic,
that he considered himself a  sovereign prince, and would consequently have small scruple 
about entering into a league against her, not only with the  northern Irish chieftains, but
even with the Catholic princes of  the Continent. She resolved, therefore, to destroy him.

Sidney was sent to Ireland as lord-lieutenant. He travelled  first through all Munster, and
complained bitterly that the  Irish chieftains were destroying the country by their divisions,
though perfectly conscious that those divisions were secretly  encouraged by England. He appeared
to listen to the people, when  they complained of their lords, and yet at the holding of  assizes
he hanged this same people on the flimsiest pretexts,  and had them executed wholesale. He
complained chiefly of Gerald of  Desmond, and, without any pretext, summoned him with his brother
John, carried them prisoners to Dublin, and afterward sent them  to the Tower of London. The
shanachy of the family relates that  then, and then only, Gerald sent a private message to
his  kinsmen and retainers, appointing his cousin James, son of  Maurice, known as James Fitzmaurice,
the head and leader in his  family during his own absence.

"For James," says the shanachy, "was well known for his  attachment to the ancient faith, no
less than for his valor and  chivalry, and gladly did the people of old Desmond receive these
commands, and inviolable was their attachment to him who was now  their appointed chieftain."

James began directly to organize the memorable "Geraldine League, " upon the fortunes of which,
for years, the attention of  Christendom was fixed.

This, the first open treaty of Irish lords with the Pope, as a  sovereign prince, and with
the King of Spain, calls for a few  remarks on the right of the Irish to declare open war with
England, and choose their own friends and allies, without being  rebels.

The English were at this very time so conscious of the weakness  of their title to the sovereignty
of Ireland, that they were  continually striving to prop up their claims by the most absurd
pretensions.

In the posthumous act of attainder against Shane O'Neill in the  Irish Parliament of 1569,
Elizabeth's ministers affected to  trace her title to the realm of Ireland back to a period
anterior to the Milesian race of kings. They invented a  ridiculous story of a "King Gurmondus,"
son to the noble King  Belan of Great Britain, who was lord of Bayon in Spain--they  probably
meant Bayonne in France--as were many of his successors  down to the time of Henry II., who
possessed the island after  the "comeing of Irishmen into the same lande."--(Haverty, Irish
Statutes, 2 Eliz., sess. 3, cap. i.)

These learned men who flourished in the golden reign of  Elizabeth must have thought the Irish
very easily imposed upon  if they imagined they could give ear to such a fabrication, at a
time when each great family had its own chronicler to trace its  pedigree back to the very
source of the race of Miledh.

The title of conquest, at that time a valid one in all countries, had no value with the Irish
who never had been and never  admitted themselves to have been conquered. Had they not  preserved
their own laws, customs, language, local governments?  Had the English ever even attempted
to subject them to their  laws? They had openly refused to grant their pretended benefits 
to those few "degenerate Irishmen" who in sheer despair had  applied for them. This policy
of separation was adopted by  England with the view of "rooting out" the Irish. The English
Government could therefore only accept the natural consequence  of such a system--that the
Irish race should be left to itself,  in the full enjoyment of its own laws and local governments.

The very policy of Henry VIII. and Elizabeth, as displayed in  their attempt to break down
the clans by favoring "well-disposed  Irishmen" and setting them up, by fraudulent elections,
as  chiefs of the various septs, proves that the English themselves  admitted the clans to
be real nation--nationes--as they were  called at the time by Irish chroniclers and by English
writers  even. It was an acknowledgment of the plain fact that the  natives possessed and exercised
their own laws of succession and  election, their own government and autonomy.

The disappearance of the Ard-Righ, who had held the titular  power over the whole country,
is no proof that the Irish  possessed no government: for they themselves had refused for  several
centuries to acknowledge his power. The island was split  up into several small independent
states, each with the right of  levying war, and making peace and alliance. Gillapatrick, of
Ossory, dispatched his ambassador to Henry VIII. to announce  that if he, the English king,
did not prevent his deputy, Rufus  Pierce, of Dublin, from annoying the clans of Ossory,  Gillapatrick
would, in self-defence, declare war against the  King of England. And the imperious Henry Tudor,
instead of  laughing at the threat of the chieftain; was shrewd enough to  recognize its significance,
and prevented it being carried into  execution by admitting the cause as valid, and submitting
the  conduct of his deputy to an investigation.

Moreover, the principles by which Christendom had been ruled for  centuries, were just then
being broken up by the advent of  Protestantism; and novel theories were being introduced for
the  government of modern nations. What were the old principles, and  what the new; and how
stood Ireland with respect to each?

In the old organization of Christendom, the key-stone of the  whole political edifice was the
papacy. Up to the sixteenth  century, the Sovereign Pontiff had been acknowledged by all  Christian
nations as supreme arbiter in international questions,  and if England did possess any shadow
of authority over Ireland,  it was owing to former decisions of popes, who, being  misinformed,
had allowed the Anglo-Norman kings to establish  their power in the island. Whatever may be
thought of the bull  of Adrian IV., this much is certain: we do not pretend to solve  that
vexed historical problem.

But, by rebelling against Rome, by rejecting the title of the  Pope, England threw away even
that claim, and by the bull of  excommunication, issued against Elizabeth, the Irish were 
released from their allegiance to her, supposing that such  allegiance had existed, solely
built upon this claim.

So well was this understood at the time, that the Roman Pontiffs, as rulers of the Papal States,
the Emperors of Germany, as  heads of the German Empire, and the Kings of Spain and France,
always covertly and sometimes openly received the envoys of  O'Neill, Desmond, and O'Donnell,
and openly dispatched troops  and fleets to assist the Irish in their struggle for their de
facto independence.

All this was in perfect accordance, not merely with the  authority which Catholic powers still
recognized in the  Sovereign Pontiff, but even with the new order of things which  Protestantism
had introduced into Western Europe, and which  England, as henceforth a leading Protestant
power, had accepted  and eagerly embraced. By the rejection of the supreme  arbitration of
the Popes, on the part of the new heretics,  Europe lost its unity as Christendom, and naturally
formed  itself into two leagues, the Catholic and the Protestant. An  oppressed Catholic nationality,
above all a weak and powerless  one, had therefore the right of appeal to the great Catholic
powers for help against oppression. And the pretension of  England to the possession of Ireland
was the very essence of  oppression and tyranny in itself, doubly aggravated by the fact  of
an apostate and vicious king or queen making it treason for a  people, utterly separate and
distinct from theirs, to hold fast  to its ancient and revered religion.

Who can say, then, that Gregory XIII. was guilty of injustice  and of abetting rebellion when,
in 1578, he furnished James  Fitzmaurice, the great Geraldine, with a fleet and army to fight
against Elizabeth? The authority greatest in Catholic eyes, and  most worthy of respect in
the eyes of all impartial men--the  Pope-- thus endorsed the patent fact that Ireland was an
independent nation, and could wage war against her oppressors.  Here we have a stand-point
from which to argue the question for  future times.

The rash or, perhaps, treacherous share taken by a few Irish  chieftains, in the schismatical
and heretical as well as  unpatriotic decrees of the Parliament of 1541, and in the  subsequent
ones of 1549, could compromise the Irish nation in  nowise, inasmuch as the people, being still
even in legal  enjoyment of their own government, their chieftains possessed no  authority
to decide on such questions without the full  concurrence of their clans, and these had already
pronounced,  clearly enough and unmistakably, on the return of their lords  from their title-hunting
expedition in England.

All the chroniclers of the time agree that "the people" was  invariably sound in faith, siding
with the chieftains wherever  they rose in opposition to oppressive decrees, abandoning them
when they showed signs of wavering, even; but, above all, when  they ranged themselves with
the oppressors of the Church. The  English Protestant writers of the period confirm this honorable
testimony of the Irish bards, by constantly accusing the natives  of a "rebellious" spirit.

The history of the Geraldine struggle is known to all readers of  Irish history, and does not
enter into the scope of these pages.  We have, however, to consider the foreign aid which the
chieftains received, from Spain chiefly, and the causes of these  failures, which at first
would seem to argue a lack of firmness  on the part of the Irish themselves. During the Geraldine
wars,  and later on in what is called the rebellion of Hugh O'Neill and  Hugh O'Donnell, the
King of Spain sent vessels and troops to the  assistance of the Irish. All these expeditions
failed, and the  destruction of the natives was far greater than it might  otherwise have been,
in consequence of the greater number of  English troops sent to Ireland to face the expected
Spanish  invasion.

The same ill success attended the French fleet and army  dispatched to Limerick by Louis XIV.
to assist James II., and,  later still, the large fleet and well-appointed troops sent by 
the French Convention to the aid of the "United Irishmen," in  1798.

In like manner, the Vendeans, on the other side, those French  "rebels" against the Convention
itself, received their death- blow in consequence of the English who were sent to their succor
at Quiberon.

It seems, indeed, a universal historic law that, when a nation  or a party in a nation struggles
against another, the almost  invariable consequence of foreign aid is failure; but no  conclusion
can be deduced from that fact of lack of bravery,  steadfastness, even ultimate success, on
the part of those who  rise in arms against oppression. Of the many causes which may be  assigned
to that apparently strange law of history, the chief  are:

1. The difficulty of effecting a joint and simultaneous effort  between the insurgent forces
and the distant friendly power.  Help comes either too soon or too late, or lands on a point
of  the coast where aid is worse than useless, and where it only  throws confusion into the
ranks of the struggling native forces,  whose plans are thus all disarranged, disconcerted,
and thrown  into confusion. Add to this the dangers of the sea, the possibly  insufficient
knowledge of the soundings and of the nature of the  coast, the differences of spirit, customs,
and language, of the  two coalescing forces, and it may be easily concluded that the  chances
of success, as opposed to those of failure, are but  scanty.

2. The forces against which the coalition is made are always  immeasurably increased for the
very purpose of meeting it, its  purport being always known beforehand. In the case under 
consideration, it were easy to show that Elizabeth was prompted  by the fear of Spain to be
speedy in crushing the attempted  "rebellions" in the south and north. Historians have made
a  computation of the troops dispatched from England by the queen,  and of the treasure spent
in these expeditions during her reign,  and the result is astonishing for the times. In fact,
the whole  strength of England was brought into requisition for the purpose  of overpowering
Ireland.

In our own days, the successful insurrection of Greece against  Turkey seems at variance with
these considerations. But the  independence of the Greeks was brought about rather by the 
unanimous voice of Europe coercing Turkey than by the few troops  sent from France, or by the
few English or Poles who volunteered  their aid to the insurgents.

The remarks we have made may be further corroborated by the  reflection that the successful
risings of oppressed  nationalities, recorded in modern history, were wholly effected  by the
unaided forces of the insurgents. Thus, the seven cantons  of Switzerland succeeded against
Austria, the Venetian Republic  against the barbarians of the North, the Portuguese in the
Braganza revolution against Spain, and the United Provinces of  the Low Countries against Spain
and Germany.

The only historical instance which may contravene this general  rule is found in the Revolution
of the United States of America,  where the French cooperation was timely and of real use,
chiefly  because the foreign aid was placed entirely under the control  and at the command
of the supreme head of the colonists, General  Washington.

These few words suffice for our purpose.

The policy of Elizabeth toward the Irish nobility is well known  to our readers. The fate of
the house of Desmond was, in her  mind, sealed from the beginning. It is now an ascertained
fact  that she drove the great earl into rebellion, who, for a long  time, refused openly to
avow his approbation of the  confederates' schemes, and even seemed at first to cooperate 
with the queen's forces, in opposition to them. It was only  after his cousin Fitzmaurice and
his brother John had been  almost ruined that, convinced of the determination of the  English
Government to seize and occupy Munster with his five or  six millions of acres, he boldly stood
up for his faith and his  country, and perished in the attempt.

It was then that "Protestant plantations" began in Ireland. The  confiscated estates of Desmond--which,
in reality, did not  belong to him but to his tribe--were handed over to companies of  "planters
out of Devonshire, Dorsetshire, and Somersetshire, out  of Lancashire and Cheshire, organized
for defence and to be  supported by standing forces."--(Prendergast.)

Then the work set on foot by Henry II. in favor of Strongbow, De  Lacy, De Courcy, and others,
was resumed, after an interval of  four hundred years, to be carried through to the end; that
is to  say, to the complete pauperizing of the native race.

Among the "undertakers" and "planters" introduced into Munster  by Elizabeth, a word may not
be out of place on Edmund Spenser  and Walter Raleigh, the first a great poet, the second a
great  warrior and courtier. They both united in advocating the  extermination of the native
race, a policy which Henry VIII. was  too high-minded to accept, and Elizabeth too great a
despiser of  "the people" to notice. To Henry and Elizabeth Tudor the people  was nothing;
the nobility every thing. Spenser, Raleigh, and  other Englishmen of note, who came into daily
contact with the  nation, saw very well that account should be taken of it, and  thought, as
Sir John Davies had thought before them, that it  ought to be "rooted out." That great question
of the Irish  people was assuming vaster proportions every day; the people was  soon to show
itself in all its strength and reality, to be  crushed out apparently by Cromwell, but really
to be preserved  by Providence for a future age, now at hand to-day.

Spenser and Raleigh, being gifted with keener foresight than  most of their countrymen, were
for the entire destruction of the  people, thinking, as did many French revolutionists of our
own  days, that "only the dead never come back."

The author of the "Faerie Queene," who had taken an active part  in the horrible butcheries
of the Geraldine war, when all the  Irish of Munster were indiscriminately slaughtered, insisted
that a similar policy should be adopted for the whole island. In  his work "On the State of
Ireland," he asks for "large masses of  troops to tread down all that standeth before them
on foot, and  lay on the ground all the stiff-necked people of that land." He  urges that the
war be carried on not only in the summer but in  the winter; "for then, the trees are bare
and naked, which use  both to hold and house the kerne; the ground is cold and wet,  which
useth to be his bedding; the air is sharp and bitter, to  blow through his naked sides and
legs; the kine are barren and  without milk, which useth to be his food, besides being all
with  calf (for the most part), they will through much chasing and  driving cast all their
calf, and lose all their milk, which  should relieve him in the next summer."

Spenser here employs his splendid imagination to present  gloatingly such details as the most
effective means for the  destruction of the hated race. All he demands is, that "the end  should
be very short," and he gives us an example of the  effectiveness and beauty of his system "in
the late wars in  Munster." For, "notwithstanding that the same" (Munster) "was a  most rich
and plentiful country, full of corne and cattle, . . .  yet ere one yeare and a half they"
(the Irish) "were brought to  such wretchednesse as that any stony heart would have rued the  same.

Such is a picture, horribly graphic, of the state to which  Munster had been reduced by the
policy of England as carried out  by a Gilbert, a Peter Carew, and a Cosby; and to this pass
the  "gentle" Spenser would have wished to see the whole country come.

Even Mr. Froude is compelled to denounce in scathing terms the  monsters employed by the queen,
and his facts are all derived,  he tells us, from existing "state papers."

Writing of the end of the Geraldine war, he says: "The English  nation was at that time shuddering
over the atrocities of the  Duke of Alva. The children in the nurseries were being inflamed
to patriotic rage and madness by the tales of Spanish tyranny.  Yet, Alva's bloody sword never
touched the young, defenceless,  or those whose sex even dogs can recognize and respect.

"Sir Peter Carew has been seen murdering women and children, and  babies that had scarcely
left the breast; but Sir Peter Carew  was not called on to answer for his conduct, and remained
in  favor with the deputy. Gilbert, who was left in command at  Kilnallock, was illustrating
yet more signally the same tendency. " Nor "was Gilbert a bad man. As time went on, he passed
for a  brave and chivalrous gentleman, not the least distinguished in  that high band of adventurers
who carried the English flag into  the western hemisphere . . . . above all, a man of 'special
piety.' He regarded himself as dealing rather with savage beasts  than with human beings (in
Ireland), and, when he tracked them  to their dens, he strangled the cubs, and rooted out the
entire  brood.

"The Gilbert method of treatment has this disadvantage, that it  must be carried out to the
last extremity, or it ought not to be  tried at all. The dead do not come back; and if the
mothers and  babies are slaughtered with the men, the race gives no further  trouble; but the
work must be done thoroughly; partial and  fitful cruelty lays up only a long debt of deserved
and ever- deepening hate.

"In justice to the English soldiers, however, it must be said  that it was no fault of theirs
if any Irish child of that  generation was allowed to live to manhood."--(Hist. of Engl., 
vol. x., p. 507.)

These Munster horrors occurred directly after the defeat of the  Irish at Kinsale. Cromwell,
therefore, in the atrocities which  will come under our notice, only followed out the policy
of the  "Virgin Queen." And it is but too evident that the English of  1598 were the fathers
or grandfathers of those of 1650. Both  were inaugurating a system of warfare which had never
been  adopted before, even among pagans, unless by the Tartar troops  under Genghis Khan; a
system which in future ages should shape  the policy, which was followed, for a short time,
by the French  Convention in la Vendee.

Raleigh, as well as Spenser, seems to have been a vigorous  advocate of this system. It is
true that his sole appearance on  the scene was on the occasion of the surrender of Smerwick
by  the Spanish garrison; but the Saxon spirit of the man was  displayed in his execution of
Lord Grey's orders, who, after,  according to all the Irish accounts, promising their lives
to  the Spaniards, had them executed; and Raleigh appears to have  directed that execution,
whereby eight hundred prisoners of war  were cruelly butchered and flung over the rocks in
the sea. From  that time out the phrase "Grey's faith" (Graia fides) became a  proverb with
the Irish.

After having succeeded in crushing Desmond and "planting "  Munster, the attention of Elizabeth
was directed to the 0'Neills  and O'Donnells of Ulster. That thrilling history is well known.
It is enough to say that O'Donnell from his youth was designedly  exasperated by ill-treatment
and imprisonment; and that as soon  as O'Neill, who had been treated with the greatest apparent
kindness by the queen, that he might become a queen's man,  showed that he was still an Irishman
and a lover of his country,  he was marked out as a victim, and all the troops and treasures
of England were poured out lavishly to crush him and destroy the  royal races of the north.

In that gigantic struggle one feature is remarkable--that,  whenever the English Government
felt obliged to come to terms  with the last asserters of Irish independence, the first  condition
invariably laid down by O'Neill and O'Donnell was the  free exercise of the Catholic religion.
For we must not lose  sight of the well-ascertained fact that the English queen, who  at the
very commencement of her reign had had her spiritual  supremacy acknowledged by the Irish Parliament
under pain of  forfeiture, praemunire, and high-treason, insisted all along on  the binding
obligation of this title; and though at first she  had secretly promised that this law should
not be enforced  against the laity, she showed by all her measures that its  observance was
of paramount importance in her eyes.

Had the Irish followed the English as a nation, and accepted  Protestantism, Elizabeth would
scarcely have made war upon them,  nor introduced her "plantations." All along the Irish were
"traitors" and "rebels" simply because they chose to remain  Catholics, and McGeoghegan has
well remarked that, "not- withstanding the severe laws enacted by Henry VIII., Edward VI.,
and Elizabeth, down to James I., it is a well-established truth  that, during that period,
the number of Irishmen who embraced  the 'reformed religion' did not amount to sixty in a country
which at the time contained two millions of souls." And  McGeoghegan might have added that,
of these sixty, not one  belonged to the people; they were all native chieftains who sold 
their religion in order to hold their estates or receive favors  from the queen.

Sir James Ware is bold enough to say that, in all her dealings 
with the Irish nobility, Elizabeth never mentioned religion, and 
their right of practising it as they wished never came into the 
question. She certainly never subjected them to any oath, as was 
the case in England. Technically speaking, this statement seems 
correct. Yet it is undeniable that Elizabeth allowed no Catholic 
bishops or priests to remain in the island; permitted the Irish 
to have none but Protestant school-teachers for their children; 
bestowed all their churches on heretical ministers; closed, one 
by one, all the buildings which Catholics used for their worship,
 as soon as their existence became known to the police; in fact 
obliged them to practise Protestantism or no religion at all.

In the eyes of Elizabeth a Catholic was a "rebel." Whoever was  executed for religion during
her reign was executed for  "rebellion." The Roman emperors who persecuted the Church during
the first three centuries, might have advanced the same  pretences And indeed the early Christians
were said to be  tortured and executed for their "violation of the laws of the  empire."

This point will come more clearly before us in considering the  second phase of the policy
of Elizabeth, her direct interference  with the Church.

II. If the policy of England's queen had been one of treachery  and deceit toward the nobility,
toward the Church it was  avowedly one of blood and destruction.

Well-intentioned and otherwise well-informed writers, among them  Mr. Prendergast, seem to
consider that the main object of the  atrocious proceedings we now proceed to glance at was
"greed,"  and that the English Government merely connived at the covetous  desires of adventurers
and undertakers, who wished to destroy  the Irish and occupy their lands; for, as Spenser says
"Sure it  was a most beautiful and sweete country as any under heaven,  being stored throughout
with many goodly rivers, replenished  with all sorts of fish most abundantly; sprinkled with
many very  sweete islands, and goodly lakes like little inland seas;  adorned with goodly woods;
also full of very good ports and  havens opening upon England as inviting us to come into them."

Such, according to those writers, was the policy of England from  the first landing of Strongbow
on the shores of Erin, and even  during the preceding four centuries, when both races were
Catholic, and the conversion of the natives to Protestantism  could not enter the thoughts
of the invaders.

This, to a certain extent, is true. Still, it seems very  doubtful to us that Elizabeth should
have undertaken so many  wars in Ireland, which lasted through her whole reign, and on  which
she employed all the strength and resources of England,  merely to please a certain number
of nobles who wished to find  foreign estates whereon to settle their numerous offspring.

The chief importance, in her eyes, of the conquest was clearly  to establish her spiritual
superiority in that part of her  dominions. She would have left the native nobles at peace,
and  even conferred on them her choicest favors, had they only  consented, as English subjects,
to break with Rome. Rome had  excommunicated her; Pius V. had released her subjects from their
allegiance because of her heresy, and Ireland did not reject the  bull of the Pope. This in
her eyes constituted the great and  unpardonable offence of the Irish. And that, for her, the
whole  question bore a religious character, will appear more clearly  from her conduct toward
the Catholic Church throughout her reign. Into this part of our subject the examination of
the step taken  by Pius V. naturally enters, and, in examining it, we shall see  whether, and
how far, the Irish can be called rebels and  "traitors."

In his history of the Reformation, Dr. Heylin says of Elizae's  supremacy could not stand together,
and she could not possibly  maintain the one without discarding the other." This is  perfectly
true, and furnishes us with the key to all her church  measures.

She pretended to be a Catholic during Mary's reign; but it was  merely pretence. To persevere
in Catholicity required of her the  sacrifice of her political aspirations; for the Church
could not  admit of her legitimacy, and consequently her title to the crown  of England. Hence,
upon the death of Mary Tudor, the Queen of  Scots immediately assumed the title of Queen of
England; and  although the Pope, then Pius IV., did not immediately declare  himself in favor
of Mary Stuart, but reserved his decision for a  future period, nevertheless, the view of the
case adopted by the  Pontiff could not be mistaken. Elizabeth's legitimacy, or, as  Heylin
has it, "legitimation and the Pope's supremacy could not  stand together." No course was left
open to her, then, than to  reject the pontifical authority, and establish her own in her 
dominions, as she did not possess faith enough to set her soul  above a crown; and the success
of her father, Henry VIII., and  of her half-brother, Edward VI., encouraged her in this step.
This fully explains her policy. It became a principle with her  that, to accept the Pope's
supremacy in spirituals, was to deny  her legitimacy, and consequently to be guilty of treason
against  her. This made the position of Catholics in England and Ireland  a most trying one.
But their moral duty was clear enough, and  every other obligation had to give way before that.
In the  persecution which followed they were certainly martyrs to their  duty and their religion.

That the question of the succession in England was an open one,  must be admitted by every
candid man. Who was the legitimate  Queen of England at the death of Mary Tudor? The Queen
of Scots  assumed the title, and, as the legitimate offspring of the  sister of Henry VIII.,
she had the right to it as the nearest  direct descendant in the event of Elizabeth's pretensions
not  being admitted by the nation. The nation at the time was in fact, though not in right,
the nobles, who enriched themselves at the  expense of the Church, and were therefore deeply
interested in  the exclusion of Catholic principles. A Parliament composed of  the nobles had
already acknowledged Elizabeth to the exclusion  of the Queen of Scots, and the former decision
was reaffirmed as  against a "female pretender" supported by a foreign power,  namely, France.

