The guide showed us a colossal statue of Jupiter, in the Vatican, which he said looked so damaged
and rusty--so like the God of the Vagabonds --because it had but recently been dug up in the
Campagna.  He asked how much we supposed this Jupiter was worth?  I replied, with intelligent
promptness, that he was probably worth about four dollars--may be four and a half.  "A hundred
thousand dollars!"  Ferguson said.  Ferguson said, further, that the Pope permits no ancient
work of this kind to leave his dominions.  He appoints a commission to examine discoveries
like this and report upon the value; then the Pope pays the discoverer one-half of that assessed
value and takes the statue.  He said this Jupiter was dug from a field which had just been
bought for thirty-six thousand dollars, so the first crop was a good one for the new farmer.
I do not know whether Ferguson always tells the truth or not, but I suppose he does.  I know
that an exorbitant export duty is exacted upon all pictures painted by the old masters, in
order to discourage the sale of those in the private collections.  I am satisfied, also, that
genuine old masters hardly exist at all, in America, because the cheapest and most insignificant
of them are valued at the price of a fine farm.  I proposed to buy a small trifle of a Raphael,
myself, but the price of it was eighty thousand dollars, the export duty would have made it
considerably over a hundred, and so I studied on it awhile and concluded not to take it.

I wish here to mention an inscription I have seen, before I forget it:

"Glory to God in the highest, peace on earth TO MEN OF GOOD WILL!"  It is not good scripture,
but it is sound Catholic and human nature.

This is in letters of gold around the apsis of a mosaic group at the side of the 'scala santa',
church of St. John Lateran, the Mother and Mistress of all the Catholic churches of the world.
The group represents the Saviour, St. Peter, Pope Leo, St. Silvester, Constantine and Charlemagne.
Peter is giving the pallium to the Pope, and a standard to Charlemagne. The Saviour is giving
the keys to St. Silvester, and a standard to Constantine.  No prayer is offered to the Saviour,
who seems to be of little importance any where in Rome; but an inscription below says, "Blessed
Peter, give life to Pope Leo and victory to king Charles."  It does not say, "Intercede for
us, through the Saviour, with the Father, for this boon," but "Blessed Peter, give it us."

In all seriousness--without meaning to be frivolous--without meaning to be irreverent, and
more than all, without meaning to be blasphemous,--I state as my simple deduction from the
things I have seen and the things I have heard, that the Holy Personages rank thus in Rome:

First--"The Mother of God"--otherwise the Virgin Mary.

Second--The Deity.

Third--Peter.

Just here I will mention something that seems curious to me.  There are no "Christ's Churches"
in Rome, and no "Churches of the Holy Ghost," that I can discover.  There are some four hundred
churches, but about a fourth of them seem to be named for the Madonna and St. Peter.  There
are so many named for Mary that they have to be distinguished by all sorts of affixes, if I
understand the matter rightly.  Then we have churches of St. Louis; St. Augustine; St. Agnes;
St. Calixtus; St. Lorenzo in Lucina; St. Lorenzo in Damaso; St. Cecilia; St. Athanasius; St.
Philip Neri; St. Catherine, St. Dominico, and a multitude of lesser saints whose names are
not familiar in the world--and away down, clear out of the list of the churches, comes a couple
of hospitals: one of them is named for the Saviour and the other for the Holy Ghost!

Day after day and night after night we have wandered among the crumbling wonders of Rome; day
after day and night after night we have fed upon the dust and decay of five-and-twenty centuries--have
brooded over them by day and dreampt of them by night till sometimes we seemed moldering away
ourselves, and growing defaced and cornerless, and liable at any moment to fall a prey to some
antiquary and be patched in the legs, and "restored" with an unseemly nose, and labeled wrong
and dated wrong, and set up in the Vatican for poets to drivel about and vandals to scribble
their names on forever and forevermore.

But the surest way to stop writing about Rome is to stop.  I wished to write a real "guide-book"
chapter on this fascinating city, but I could not do it, because I have felt all the time like
a boy in a candy-shop --there was every thing to choose from, and yet no choice.  I have drifted
along hopelessly for a hundred pages of manuscript without knowing where to commence.  I will
not commence at all.  Our passports have been examined.  We will go to Naples.

CHAPTER XXIX.

The ship is lying here in the harbor of Naples--quarantined.  She has been here several days
and will remain several more.  We that came by rail from Rome have escaped this misfortune.
Of course no one is allowed to go on board the ship, or come ashore from her.  She is a prison,
now. The passengers probably spend the long, blazing days looking out from under the awnings
at Vesuvius and the beautiful city--and in swearing. Think of ten days of this sort of pastime!--We
go out every day in a boat and request them to come ashore.  It soothes them.  We lie ten steps
from the ship and tell them how splendid the city is; and how much better the hotel fare is
here than any where else in Europe; and how cool it is; and what frozen continents of ice cream
there are; and what a time we are having cavorting about the country and sailing to the islands
in the Bay. This tranquilizes them.

                           ASCENT OF VESUVIUS.

I shall remember our trip to Vesuvius for many a day--partly because of its sight-seeing experiences,
but chiefly on account of the fatigue of the journey.  Two or three of us had been resting
ourselves among the tranquil and beautiful scenery of the island of Ischia, eighteen miles
out in the harbor, for two days; we called it "resting," but I do not remember now what the
resting consisted of, for when we got back to Naples we had not slept for forty-eight hours.
We were just about to go to bed early in the evening, and catch up on some of the sleep we
had lost, when we heard of this Vesuvius expedition.  There was to be eight of us in the party,
and we were to leave Naples at midnight.  We laid in some provisions for the trip, engaged
carriages to take us to Annunciation, and then moved about the city, to keep awake, till twelve.
We got away punctually, and in the course of an hour and a half arrived at the town of Annunciation.
Annunciation is the very last place under the sun.  In other towns in Italy the people lie
around quietly and wait for you to ask them a question or do some overt act that can be charged
for--but in Annunciation they have lost even that fragment of delicacy; they seize a lady's
shawl from a chair and hand it to her and charge a penny; they open a carriage door, and charge
for it--shut it when you get out, and charge for it; they help you to take off a duster--two
cents; brush your clothes and make them worse than they were before--two cents; smile upon
you--two cents; bow, with a lick-spittle smirk, hat in hand --two cents; they volunteer all
information, such as that the mules will arrive presently--two cents--warm day, sir--two cents--take
you four hours to make the ascent--two cents.  And so they go.  They crowd you --infest you--swarm
about you, and sweat and smell offensively, and look sneaking and mean, and obsequious.  There
is no office too degrading for them to perform, for money.  I have had no opportunity to find
out any thing about the upper classes by my own observation, but from what I hear said about
them I judge that what they lack in one or two of the bad traits the canaille have, they make
up in one or two others that are worse.  How the people beg!--many of them very well dressed,
too.  If the manager could have filled his theatre with Neapolitan souls alone, without the
bodies, he could not have cleared less than ninety millions of dollars.  What traits of character
must a man have to enable him to help three thousand miscreants to hiss, and jeer, and laugh
at one friendless old woman, and shamefully humiliate her?  He must have all the vile, mean
traits there are.  My observation persuades me (I do not like to venture beyond my own personal
observation,) that the upper classes of Naples possess those traits of character.  Otherwise
they may be very good people; I can not say.

                     ASCENT OF VESUVIUS--CONTINUED.

In this city of Naples, they believe in and support one of the wretchedest of all the religious
impostures one can find in Italy--the miraculous liquefaction of the blood of St. Januarius.
Twice a year the priests assemble all the people at the Cathedral, and get out this vial of
clotted blood and let them see it slowly dissolve and become liquid --and every day for eight
days, this dismal farce is repeated, while the priests go among the crowd and collect money
for the exhibition.  The first day, the blood liquefies in forty-seven minutes--the church
is crammed, then, and time must be allowed the collectors to get around: after that it liquefies
a little quicker and a little quicker, every day, as the houses grow smaller, till on the eighth
day, with only a few dozens present to see the miracle, it liquefies in four minutes.

And here, also, they used to have a grand procession, of priests, citizens, soldiers, sailors,
and the high dignitaries of the City Government, once a year, to shave the head of a made-up
Madonna--a stuffed and painted image, like a milliner's dummy--whose hair miraculously grew
and restored itself every twelve months.  They still kept up this shaving procession as late
as four or five years ago.  It was a source of great profit to the church that possessed the
remarkable effigy, and the ceremony of the public barbering of her was always carried out with
the greatest possible eclat and display--the more the better, because the more excitement there
was about it the larger the crowds it drew and the heavier the revenues it produced--but at
last a day came when the Pope and his servants were unpopular in Naples, and the City Government
stopped the Madonna's annual show.

There we have two specimens of these Neapolitans--two of the silliest possible frauds, which
half the population religiously and faithfully believed, and the other half either believed
also or else said nothing about, and thus lent themselves to the support of the imposture.
I am very well satisfied to think the whole population believed in those poor, cheap miracles--a
people who want two cents every time they bow to you, and who abuse a woman, are capable of
it, I think.

                     ASCENT OF VESUVIUS--CONTINUED.

These Neapolitans always ask four times as much money as they intend to take, but if you give
them what they first demand, they feel ashamed of themselves for aiming so low, and immediately
ask more.  When money is to be paid and received, there is always some vehement jawing and
gesticulating about it.  One can not buy and pay for two cents' worth of clams without trouble
and a quarrel.  One "course," in a two-horse carriage, costs a franc--that is law--but the
hackman always demands more, on some pretence or other, and if he gets it he makes a new demand.
It is said that a stranger took a one-horse carriage for a course --tariff, half a franc. 
He gave the man five francs, by way of experiment. He demanded more, and received another franc.
Again he demanded more, and got a franc--demanded more, and it was refused.  He grew vehement
--was again refused, and became noisy.  The stranger said, "Well, give me the seven francs
again, and I will see what I can do"--and when he got them, he handed the hackman half a franc,
and he immediately asked for two cents to buy a drink with.  It may be thought that I am prejudiced.

Perhaps I am.  I would be ashamed of myself if I were not.

                     ASCENT OF VESUVIUS--CONTINUED.

Well, as I was saying, we got our mules and horses, after an hour and a half of bargaining
with the population of Annunciation, and started sleepily up the mountain, with a vagrant at
each mule's tail who pretended to be driving the brute along, but was really holding on and
getting himself dragged up instead.  I made slow headway at first, but I began to get dissatisfied
at the idea of paying my minion five francs to hold my mule back by the tail and keep him from
going up the hill, and so I discharged him.  I got along faster then.

We had one magnificent picture of Naples from a high point on the mountain side.  We saw nothing
but the gas lamps, of course--two-thirds of a circle, skirting the great Bay--a necklace of
diamonds glinting up through the darkness from the remote distance--less brilliant than the
stars overhead, but more softly, richly beautiful--and over all the great city the lights crossed
and recrossed each other in many and many a sparkling line and curve.  And back of the town,
far around and abroad over the miles of level campagna, were scattered rows, and circles, and
clusters of lights, all glowing like so many gems, and marking where a score of villages were
sleeping.  About this time, the fellow who was hanging on to the tail of the horse in front
of me and practicing all sorts of unnecessary cruelty upon the animal, got kicked some fourteen
rods, and this incident, together with the fairy spectacle of the lights far in the distance,
made me serenely happy, and I was glad I started to Vesuvius.

                  ASCENT OF MOUNT VESUVIUS--CONTINUED.

This subject will be excellent matter for a chapter, and tomorrow or next day I will write it.

CHAPTER XXX.

                     ASCENT OF VESUVIUS--CONTINUED.

"See Naples and die."  Well, I do not know that one would necessarily die after merely seeing
it, but to attempt to live there might turn out a little differently.  To see Naples as we
saw it in the early dawn from far up on the side of Vesuvius, is to see a picture of wonderful
beauty. At that distance its dingy buildings looked white--and so, rank on rank of balconies,
windows and roofs, they piled themselves up from the blue ocean till the colossal castle of
St. Elmo topped the grand white pyramid and gave the picture symmetry, emphasis and completeness.
And when its lilies turned to roses--when it blushed under the sun's first kiss--it was beautiful
beyond all description.  One might well say, then, "See Naples and die."  The frame of the
picture was charming, itself.  In front, the smooth sea--a vast mosaic of many colors; the
lofty islands swimming in a dreamy haze in the distance; at our end of the city the stately
double peak of Vesuvius, and its strong black ribs and seams of lava stretching down to the
limitless level campagna--a green carpet that enchants the eye and leads it on and on, past
clusters of trees, and isolated houses, and snowy villages, until it shreds out in a fringe
of mist and general vagueness far away.  It is from the Hermitage, there on the side of Vesuvius,
that one should "see Naples and die."

But do not go within the walls and look at it in detail.  That takes away some of the romance
of the thing.  The people are filthy in their habits, and this makes filthy streets and breeds
disagreeable sights and smells. There never was a community so prejudiced against the cholera
as these Neapolitans are.  But they have good reason to be.  The cholera generally vanquishes
a Neapolitan when it seizes him, because, you understand, before the doctor can dig through
the dirt and get at the disease the man dies.  The upper classes take a sea-bath every day,
and are pretty decent.

The streets are generally about wide enough for one wagon, and how they do swarm with people!
It is Broadway repeated in every street, in every court, in every alley!  Such masses, such
throngs, such multitudes of hurrying, bustling, struggling humanity!  We never saw the like
of it, hardly even in New York, I think.  There are seldom any sidewalks, and when there are,
they are not often wide enough to pass a man on without caroming on him.  So everybody walks
in the street--and where the street is wide enough, carriages are forever dashing along.  Why
a thousand people are not run over and crippled every day is a mystery that no man can solve.
But if there is an eighth wonder in the world, it must be the dwelling-houses of Naples.  I
honestly believe a good majority of them are a hundred feet high!  And the solid brick walls
are seven feet through.  You go up nine flights of stairs before you get to the "first" floor.
No, not nine, but there or thereabouts.  There is a little bird-cage of an iron railing in
front of every window clear away up, up, up, among the eternal clouds, where the roof is, and
there is always somebody looking out of every window--people of ordinary size looking out from
the first floor, people a shade smaller from the second, people that look a little smaller
yet from the third--and from thence upward they grow smaller and smaller by a regularly graduated
diminution, till the folks in the topmost windows seem more like birds in an uncommonly tall
martin-box than any thing else.  The perspective of one of these narrow cracks of streets,
with its rows of tall houses stretching away till they come together in the distance like railway
tracks; its clothes-lines crossing over at all altitudes and waving their bannered raggedness
over the swarms of people below; and the white-dressed women perched in balcony railings all
the way from the pavement up to the heavens--a perspective like that is really worth going
into Neapolitan details to see.

                     ASCENT OF VESUVIUS--CONTINUED.

Naples, with its immediate suburbs, contains six hundred and twenty-five thousand inhabitants,
but I am satisfied it covers no more ground than an American city of one hundred and fifty
thousand.  It reaches up into the air infinitely higher than three American cities, though,
and there is where the secret of it lies.  I will observe here, in passing, that the contrasts
between opulence and poverty, and magnificence and misery, are more frequent and more striking
in Naples than in Paris even.  One must go to the Bois de Boulogne to see fashionable dressing,
splendid equipages and stunning liveries, and to the Faubourg St. Antoine to see vice, misery,
hunger, rags, dirt--but in the thoroughfares of Naples these things are all mixed together.
Naked boys of nine years and the fancy-dressed children of luxury; shreds and tatters, and
brilliant uniforms; jackass-carts and state-carriages; beggars, Princes and Bishops, jostle
each other in every street.  At six o'clock every evening, all Naples turns out to drive on
the 'Riviere di Chiaja', (whatever that may mean;) and for two hours one may stand there and
see the motliest and the worst mixed procession go by that ever eyes beheld. Princes (there
are more Princes than policemen in Naples--the city is infested with them)--Princes who live
up seven flights of stairs and don't own any principalities, will keep a carriage and go hungry;
and clerks, mechanics, milliners and strumpets will go without their dinners and squander the
money on a hack-ride in the Chiaja; the rag-tag and rubbish of the city stack themselves up,
to the number of twenty or thirty, on a rickety little go-cart hauled by a donkey not much
bigger than a cat, and they drive in the Chiaja; Dukes and bankers, in sumptuous carriages
and with gorgeous drivers and footmen, turn out, also, and so the furious procession goes.
For two hours rank and wealth, and obscurity and poverty clatter along side by side in the
wild procession, and then go home serene, happy, covered with glory!

I was looking at a magnificent marble staircase in the King's palace, the other day, which,
it was said, cost five million francs, and I suppose it did cost half a million, may be.  I
felt as if it must be a fine thing to live in a country where there was such comfort and such
luxury as this. And then I stepped out musing, and almost walked over a vagabond who was eating
his dinner on the curbstone--a piece of bread and a bunch of grapes.  When I found that this
mustang was clerking in a fruit establishment (he had the establishment along with him in a
basket,) at two cents a day, and that he had no palace at home where he lived, I lost some
of my enthusiasm concerning the happiness of living in Italy.

This naturally suggests to me a thought about wages here.  Lieutenants in the army get about
a dollar a day, and common soldiers a couple of cents. I only know one clerk--he gets four
dollars a month.  Printers get six dollars and a half a month, but I have heard of a foreman
who gets thirteen.

To be growing suddenly and violently rich, as this man is, naturally makes him a bloated aristocrat.
The airs he puts on are insufferable.

And, speaking of wages, reminds me of prices of merchandise.  In Paris you pay twelve dollars
a dozen for Jouvin's best kid gloves; gloves of about as good quality sell here at three or
four dollars a dozen.  You pay five and six dollars apiece for fine linen shirts in Paris;
here and in Leghorn you pay two and a half.  In Marseilles you pay forty dollars for a first-class
dress coat made by a good tailor, but in Leghorn you can get a full dress suit for the same
money.  Here you get handsome business suits at from ten to twenty dollars, and in Leghorn
you can get an overcoat for fifteen dollars that would cost you seventy in New York. Fine kid
boots are worth eight dollars in Marseilles and four dollars here.  Lyons velvets rank higher
in America than those of Genoa.  Yet the bulk of Lyons velvets you buy in the States are made
in Genoa and imported into Lyons, where they receive the Lyons stamp and are then exported
to America.  You can buy enough velvet in Genoa for twenty-five dollars to make a five hundred
dollar cloak in New York--so the ladies tell me.  Of course these things bring me back, by
a natural and easy transition, to the

                     ASCENT OF VESUVIUS--CONTINUED.

And thus the wonderful Blue Grotto is suggested to me.  It is situated on the Island of Capri,
twenty-two miles from Naples.  We chartered a little steamer and went out there.  Of course,
the police boarded us and put us through a health examination, and inquired into our politics,
before they would let us land.  The airs these little insect Governments put on are in the
last degree ridiculous.  They even put a policeman on board of our boat to keep an eye on us
as long as we were in the Capri dominions. They thought we wanted to steal the grotto, I suppose.
It was worth stealing.  The entrance to the cave is four feet high and four feet wide, and
is in the face of a lofty perpendicular cliff--the sea-wall.  You enter in small boats--and
a tight squeeze it is, too.  You can not go in at all when the tide is up.  Once within, you
find yourself in an arched cavern about one hundred and sixty feet long, one hundred and twenty
wide, and about seventy high.  How deep it is no man knows.  It goes down to the bottom of
the ocean.  The waters of this placid subterranean lake are the brightest, loveliest blue that
can be imagined.  They are as transparent as plate glass, and their coloring would shame the
richest sky that ever bent over Italy.  No tint could be more ravishing, no lustre more superb.
Throw a stone into the water, and the myriad of tiny bubbles that are created flash out a brilliant
glare like blue theatrical fires.  Dip an oar, and its blade turns to splendid frosted silver,
tinted with blue.  Let a man jump in, and instantly he is cased in an armor more gorgeous than
ever kingly Crusader wore.

Then we went to Ischia, but I had already been to that island and tired myself to death "resting"
a couple of days and studying human villainy, with the landlord of the Grande Sentinelle for
a model.  So we went to Procida, and from thence to Pozzuoli, where St. Paul landed after he
sailed from Samos.  I landed at precisely the same spot where St. Paul landed, and so did Dan
and the others.  It was a remarkable coincidence. St. Paul preached to these people seven days
before he started to Rome.

Nero's Baths, the ruins of Baiae, the Temple of Serapis; Cumae, where the Cumaen Sybil interpreted
the oracles, the Lake Agnano, with its ancient submerged city still visible far down in its
depths--these and a hundred other points of interest we examined with critical imbecility,
but the Grotto of the Dog claimed our chief attention, because we had heard and read so much
about it.  Every body has written about the Grotto del Cane and its poisonous vapors, from
Pliny down to Smith, and every tourist has held a dog over its floor by the legs to test the
capabilities of the place.  The dog dies in a minute and a half--a chicken instantly.  As a
general thing, strangers who crawl in there to sleep do not get up until they are called. 
And then they don't either.  The stranger that ventures to sleep there takes a permanent contract.
I longed to see this grotto. I resolved to take a dog and hold him myself; suffocate him a
little, and time him; suffocate him some more and then finish him.  We reached the grotto at
about three in the afternoon, and proceeded at once to make the experiments.  But now, an important
difficulty presented itself.  We had no dog.

                     ASCENT OF VESUVIUS--CONTINUED.

At the Hermitage we were about fifteen or eighteen hundred feet above the sea, and thus far
a portion of the ascent had been pretty abrupt.  For the next two miles the road was a mixture--sometimes
the ascent was abrupt and sometimes it was not: but one characteristic it possessed all the
time, without failure--without modification--it was all uncompromisingly and unspeakably infamous.
It was a rough, narrow trail, and led over an old lava flow--a black ocean which was tumbled
into a thousand fantastic shapes--a wild chaos of ruin, desolation, and barrenness--a wilderness
of billowy upheavals, of furious whirlpools, of miniature mountains rent asunder--of gnarled
and knotted, wrinkled and twisted masses of blackness that mimicked branching roots, great
vines, trunks of trees, all interlaced and mingled together: and all these weird shapes, all
this turbulent panorama, all this stormy, far-stretching waste of blackness, with its thrilling
suggestiveness of life, of action, of boiling, surging, furious motion, was petrified!--all
stricken dead and cold in the instant of its maddest rioting!--fettered, paralyzed, and left
to glower at heaven in impotent rage for evermore!

Finally we stood in a level, narrow valley (a valley that had been created by the terrific
march of some old time irruption) and on either hand towered the two steep peaks of Vesuvius.
The one we had to climb --the one that contains the active volcano--seemed about eight hundred
or one thousand feet high, and looked almost too straight-up-and-down for any man to climb,
and certainly no mule could climb it with a man on his back.  Four of these native pirates
will carry you to the top in a sedan chair, if you wish it, but suppose they were to slip and
let you fall, --is it likely that you would ever stop rolling?  Not this side of eternity,
perhaps.  We left the mules, sharpened our finger-nails, and began the ascent I have been writing
about so long, at twenty minutes to six in the morning.  The path led straight up a rugged
sweep of loose chunks of pumice-stone, and for about every two steps forward we took, we slid
back one.  It was so excessively steep that we had to stop, every fifty or sixty steps, and
rest a moment.  To see our comrades, we had to look very nearly straight up at those above
us, and very nearly straight down at those below.  We stood on the summit at last--it had taken
an hour and fifteen minutes to make the trip.

What we saw there was simply a circular crater--a circular ditch, if you please--about two
hundred feet deep, and four or five hundred feet wide, whose inner wall was about half a mile
in circumference.  In the centre of the great circus ring thus formed, was a torn and ragged
upheaval a hundred feet high, all snowed over with a sulphur crust of many and many a brilliant
and beautiful color, and the ditch inclosed this like the moat of a castle, or surrounded it
as a little river does a little island, if the simile is better.  The sulphur coating of that
island was gaudy in the extreme--all mingled together in the richest confusion were red, blue,
brown, black, yellow, white--I do not know that there was a color, or shade of a color, or
combination of colors, unrepresented--and when the sun burst through the morning mists and
fired this tinted magnificence, it topped imperial Vesuvius like a jeweled crown!

The crater itself--the ditch--was not so variegated in coloring, but yet, in its softness,
richness, and unpretentious elegance, it was more charming, more fascinating to the eye.  There
was nothing "loud" about its well-bred and well-creased look.  Beautiful?  One could stand
and look down upon it for a week without getting tired of it.  It had the semblance of a pleasant
meadow, whose slender grasses and whose velvety mosses were frosted with a shining dust, and
tinted with palest green that deepened gradually to the darkest hue of the orange leaf, and
deepened yet again into gravest brown, then faded into orange, then into brightest gold, and
culminated in the delicate pink of a new-blown rose. Where portions of the meadow had sunk,
and where other portions had been broken up like an ice-floe, the cavernous openings of the
one, and the ragged upturned edges exposed by the other, were hung with a lace-work of soft-tinted
crystals of sulphur that changed their deformities into quaint shapes and figures that were
full of grace and beauty.

The walls of the ditch were brilliant with yellow banks of sulphur and with lava and pumice-stone
of many colors.  No fire was visible any where, but gusts of sulphurous steam issued silently
and invisibly from a thousand little cracks and fissures in the crater, and were wafted to
our noses with every breeze.  But so long as we kept our nostrils buried in our handkerchiefs,
there was small danger of suffocation.

Some of the boys thrust long slips of paper down into holes and set them on fire, and so achieved
the glory of lighting their cigars by the flames of Vesuvius, and others cooked eggs over fissures
in the rocks and were happy.

The view from the summit would have been superb but for the fact that the sun could only pierce
the mists at long intervals.  Thus the glimpses we had of the grand panorama below were only
fitful and unsatisfactory.

                               THE DESCENT.

The descent of the mountain was a labor of only four minutes.  Instead of stalking down the
rugged path we ascended, we chose one which was bedded knee-deep in loose ashes, and ploughed
our way with prodigious strides that would almost have shamed the performance of him of the
seven-league boots.

The Vesuvius of today is a very poor affair compared to the mighty volcano of Kilauea, in the
Sandwich Islands, but I am glad I visited it. It was well worth it.

It is said that during one of the grand eruptions of Vesuvius it discharged massy rocks weighing
many tons a thousand feet into the air, its vast jets of smoke and steam ascended thirty miles
toward the firmament, and clouds of its ashes were wafted abroad and fell upon the decks of
ships seven hundred and fifty miles at sea!  I will take the ashes at a moderate discount,
if any one will take the thirty miles of smoke, but I do not feel able to take a commanding
interest in the whole story by myself.