Approaching in its effects more closely to the electric bath than any other remedy, is the
process known as “general faradization,” to which I have already alluded (p. 36). In choosing
between this and the bath, I state it as my conviction that, while there may be a small proportion
of cases in which general faradization, so-called, is preferable, in almost all the cases where
both these remedies are applicable, the faradic bath deserves the preference—it is a more complete
faradization.

We need never be afraid of ordering electric baths on the score of any imagined exertion or
discomfort attaching to them. The most delicate, the aged and children alike, bear them with
far more ease, comfort and impunity than any ordinary warm bath, or any but the mildest local
electrization. The entire absence of shock or pain of any kind whatsoever, is always an agreeable
surprise to those who, urged by their physicians, have with fear and trembling submitted themselves
to a treatment, the mere name of which filled their minds with extravagant—and, it is useless
to say, groundless—visions of painful shocks. Thanks to the tonic effects of the current, they
are by the feeble and infirm borne much better than the ordinary warm bath. There is likewise
much less liability to get cold after the electric bath. The stimulus which the current furnishes
to the peripheral circulation is a powerful protection against cold, so that even in midwinter
I see people daily take electric baths at an average temperature of 95°, and enjoy apparent
immunity from colds.

Having once determined on the use of the baths in a given case, we have to observe certain
points in their application.

In the first place, guided by what we know of the relative effects of galvanism and induced
electricity, we must decide which of these two currents to use, and if both, in which order.
We must determine on the direction and intensity of the currents, as well as on the duration
of the baths.

Next we must use our judgment as physicians, in deciding whether a given case promises to get
well under electro-balneological treatment alone, or whether auxiliary treatment may not be
required to bring it to a favorable issue.

With respect to the frequency of the applications, I will say that while there are some cases
where a bath twice a week is sufficient, and others where a bath every day is imperatively
necessary, in far the greater majority of cases suitable for electro-balneological treatment,
a bath every alternate day is sufficient, but a bath every day is better—it leads to more rapid
as well as certain results.

In most of the cases, a daily bath for a few days or a week, followed by one every other day
for a time, and, when the cure is about completed, a bath twice a week, to consolidate and
confirm the good results obtained, has done me the best service.

I would dwell particularly on the necessity of perseverance in this treatment. The majority
of cases that have come under my observation in this connection, have been of a more or less
chronic nature. In many of these, where medicinal and other treatment had been unavailingly
gone through with for weeks, months and even years, I have found existing the most absurd expectations
with regard to the effects of the baths. People who had made the tour of almost all the watering-places
of Europe without obtaining the slightest benefit, have come to me imbued with the idea—whence
derived I know not—that one or two baths should greatly improve, and two or three more cure
them; and when these expectations were not realized, they would promptly discontinue treatment,
fully satisfied that electric baths were no more capable of benefiting them than “all the other
things.