 Hood's arrival in front of Spring Hill that afternoon was clearly a contingency
unlooked for by Schofield, for it caught our army in a situation to leave no reasonable hope
of escape without dire disaster, and Schofield himself, as will appear, was thoroughly frightened
by the situation. That his after-version of the saving merit of his cool calculation was fully
accepted by the Administration is proved by the promotion he was given, when, in fact, his
bad miscalculation was responsible for getting the army into a trap from which it escaped through
the failure of the enemy to shut the door. Of the miracle of that escape much remains to be
told. When Wagner was coming to Spring Hill the 26th Ohio was detached from the column to guard
a country road entering the pike more than a mile southwest of Spring Hill. Captain Kelly,
of the 26th, informed me that the regiment was driven off that evening by a line of battle
so long as to extend far beyond either flank of the 26th. That was Bate's division, and after
driving off the 26th there was nothing whatever to prevent Bate from sweeping down the pike
towards Columbia. If he had diligently obeyed that order he would have progressed so far before
Cheatham's recall order reached him that he would have met Ruger coming to Spring Hill, and
then the cat would have been out of the bag. Bate declined to obey Cheatham's first order because
it conflicted with the order direct from Hood, under which he was acting, and Cheatham's order
had to be repeated. When the second order reached Bate he was still loitering where he had
encountered the 26th Ohio. He had wasted more than an hour of precious time in doing nothing,
for he had not only disobeyed Hood's order to sweep down the pike, but he had not even made
a lodgement on the pike. It was then about 6:30 o'clock, after dark, and Ruger's advance was
just coming along. First leaving orders for the other divisions to follow after dark, about
4:30 o'clock, Schofield had started with Ruger to reinforce Stanley. Ruger skirmished with
Bate at the place and time indicated, but as Bate was off to the east side, instead of astride
the pike, where, by Hood's order he should have been, Ruger had no difficulty in pushing past
Bate. Granbury's brigade was still lying behind the fence, close to the pike, and after passing
Bate, Ruger had to run the gantlet of Granbury's line. Granbury had been notified that Bate
was coming from the left, and hearing Ruger marching along the pike in the darkness, he mistook
him for Bate, so that Schofield himself, with Ruger, rode along right under the muzzles of
the muskets of Granbury's line, in blissful ignorance of the danger they were passing. Captain
English, Granbury's assistant adjutant-general, advanced towards the pike to investigate, but
was captured by the flankers covering the march of Ruger's column, belonging to the 23d Michigan.
Elias Bartlett of the 36th Illinois, was on picket on the pike at the bridge across the creek
a half mile south of Spring Hill, and he informed me that when Schofield came to his post he
began eagerly to inquire what had happened, saying that he had feared everything at Spring
Hill had been captured; that while they were talking, a Confederate picket, near enough to
hear the sound of their voices, fired on them, and Schofield then rode on. A little later Bate
came up through the fields, Granbury fell back from the fence and Cleburne and Bate then connected
and adjusted a new line with Bate's left brigade refused so as to face the pike and all the
rest of their line running across the country away from the pike.

Bate had utterly failed to grasp the significance of Ruger's passage, claiming that his flank
was in danger, and his representations to that effect were so urgent that Johnson's division
was brought up between 9 and 10 o'clock and posted on Bate's left, Johnson's line and the line
of Bate's refused brigade paralleling the pike at a distance of not more than 150 yards. Many
contradictory statements have been made relative to the distance of that part of the Confederate
line from the pike. The owner of the land pointed out to me a small plantation graveyard as
being just inside their line that night. He said that the position of their line was marked,
after they had gone in the morning, by the rail barricades they had built, and by the remains
of their bivouac fires, and he very positively asserted that no part of their line, facing
the pike, was distant more than 150 yards from the pike. All the intervening space was cleared
land. When the divisions of Cox, Wood and Kimball came up from Duck river later in the night,
they marched along unmolested within that easy range of the Confederate line, and could plainly
see the men around the bivouac fires. A staff officer was stationed on the pike beyond Johnson's
left, where the fires first came into view, to caution the troops as they came up to march
by the fires as silently as possible. Captain Bestow, of General Wood's staff, has related
that when the officer told Wood, riding at the head of his division, that the long line of
fires he could see paralleling the pike so closely on the right was the bivouac fires of the
enemy, the veteran Wood was so astounded that he exclaimed: "In God's name, no!" When they
came abreast of the fires one of Wood's orderlies, believing it to be impossible they could
be the enemy, started to ride over to one of the fires to light his pipe, but had gone only
a short distance when he was fired on, and came galloping back. A colonel of Johnson's division
has stated that he held his regiment in line, momentarily expecting an order to open fire,
until his men, one after another, overcome with fatigue, had all dropped to the ground to go
to sleep. Some of Johnson's men, on their own responsibility, went out on the pike between
the passage of the different divisions, to capture stragglers for the sake of getting the contents
of their haversacks. They were the men who made it unsafe, as reported by General Stanley,
for a staff officer or an orderly to ride along the pike when a column of troops was not passing.

General Hood had gone to bed in Thompson's house when he was informed that troops were marching
along the pike. Without getting out of bed he directed Colonel Mason, his chief of staff, to
send an order to Cheatham to advance on the pike and attack, but Mason admitted the next day,
as stated by Governor Harris, of Tennessee, who was serving as a volunteer aide on Hood's staff,
that he never sent the order. This strange neglect of the part of his own chief of staff affords
a fitting climax to all the rest of the imbecility that contributed to Hood's failure after
he had personally led the main body of his army to a position where by all ordinary chances
success should have been certain.

There is a bit of Stanley's report that gives a clear glimpse of the situation as Schofield
and Stanley believed it to be after they had met that night: "General Schofield arrived from
Columbia at 7 o'clock in the evening with Ruger's division. He found the enemy on the pike
and had quite a skirmish in driving them off. My pickets had reported seeing rebel columns
passing, east of our position, as if to get possession of the hills at Thompson's Station,
and the anxious question arose whether we could force our way through to Franklin. It was determined
to attempt this, and General Schofield pushed on with Ruger's division to ascertain the condition
of affairs."

Another vivid glimpse is afforded in the statement of O.J. Hack, a conductor on the railroad,
who was also interested in a store at Columbia. He came down the road that day on the last
train southbound, having in charge some goods for the store, and at the Spring Hill station
met the last train northbound, and from the trainmen learned that the army was retreating.
The two trains stood at the station that afternoon. Some time after dark, being anxious to
save his goods, Hack went over to Spring Hill in quest of a guard to run the trains back to
Franklin. On inquiring for headquarters he was directed to a large brick house where he found
Schofield and Stanley together. Schofield, recently arrived from Duck river, had just been
getting Stanley's account of the situation, and Hack said that Schofield was in a condition
of great agitation, "walking the floor and wringing his hands." When Hack had told what he
wanted, Schofield sharply replied that the enemy had possession of the road north of Spring
Hill, and the trains could not move. The report of Stanley and the statement of Hack concur
in showing that it was then Schofield's belief that Hood had possession of the Franklin pike;
that the army was caught in a trap; that the only way out was the desperate expedient of forcing
a passage by a night attack, and, failing in that, he must fight a battle next day under so
many disadvantages that ruinous defeat, with the probable loss of the army, was staring him
in the face. It would be interesting to know what Schofield then thought about his intimate
knowledge of Hood's character, and his cool calculation based thereon, for which he afterwards
so unblushingly claimed so much credit.

The two trains stood at the station until daylight was beginning to dawn when a detail of men
came and began to build fires to burn the cars, but the detail was driven away, and the fires
were extinguished before much damage was done, by the advance of the enemy. The two trains
thus captured afforded the transportation to which Hood alluded in a letter to Richmond, written
when he was in front of Nashville, wherein he stated that he had captured enough transportation
to make use of the railroad in bringing up supplies. But Schofield ignored the loss of the
two trains, for, in his official report, he explicitly states that with the exception of a
few wagons, and of a few cattle that were stampeded, he arrived at Franklin without any loss.

When Schofield "pushed on with Ruger's division to ascertain the condition of affairs," on
his arrival at Thompson's Station, three miles north of Spring Hill, he found camp fires still
burning, but the brigade of cavalry that had been in possession there, withdrew without making
any resistance. This very considerate action on the part of the cavalry was another of those
lucky fatalities that so notably contributed to the escape of our army when such special fatalities
were a vital necessity for its escape. After posting Ruger there to hold the cross roads Schofield
returned to Spring Hill, where he arrived about midnight at the same time with the advance
of Cox's division coming from Duck river. With this division he then hurried through to Franklin,
picking up Ruger as he passed along, and thus saddling Stanley with all the risk of saving
the artillery and the trains.

If they had been lost Stanley would have been the scapegoat, but with the same skill with which
that afternoon he had bluffed off ten-twelfths of Hood's army with a single division, Stanley
that night saved the artillery and the trains. At 3 o'clock in the morning, when only a part
of the trains had pulled out, the long column on the pike was brought to a standstill by an
attack some place in front. The situation was so critical that General Wood, who was then with
Stanley, believing it would be impossible to save both troops and trains, advised that the
trains be abandoned. But Stanley persevered until the attack was beaten off and the column
again in motion. The two trains of cars had to be abandoned because a bridge had been destroyed
north of the station, and about forty wagons were lost in the attacks made by Forrest between
Thompson's Station and Franklin. Everything else was saved.

And, by the way, Stanley was one of the many good soldiers who were overslaughed by the big
promotion obtained by Schofield. Stanley outranked Schofield, both as a captain in the regular
army and as a major-general of volunteers, but by assignment of the President, gained by his
extraordinary ability in the arts of diplomacy instead of by fighting ability displayed on
the battle field, Schofield was a department commander while Stanley was a corps commander,
and it thus happened that Stanley was serving under his junior in rank.

Wagner's division was the last to leave Spring Hill. When night came Bradley's brigade began
to intrench the line it was on, and kept at this work until nearly midnight when the men were
called under arms, and spent all the remainder of that anxious, weary night on their feet.
While standing in column we could hear to our left the rumble of the wheels while the artillery
and the wagons were pulling out, and much of the time could be heard the dull tread of many
feet and the clicking of accoutrements that told of the march of a column of troops along the
pike, but there was no other sound--not even the shout of a teamster to his mules or the crack
of a whip. All the surroundings were so impressive as to subdue the most boisterously profane
men. In expressing their dissatisfaction with the situation they were always careful to mutter
their curses in a tone so low as to be inaudible a short distance away, for, looking to our
right, we could see the glow on the sky made by the bivouac fires of the enemy, and in some
places could see the fires with a few men about them cooking something to eat, or otherwise
engaged, while most of their men were lying on the ground asleep. Every minute of those anxious
hours we were looking for them to awake to the opportunity that was slipping through their
fingers and grab hold of it by advancing and opening fire on the congested mass of troops and
trains that choked the pike. Occasionally our column would move on a short distance. Any orders
that may have been given were spoken in a low tone at the head of the column. You would be
apprised that the column was moving by the silent disappearance in the darkness of your file
leader. You would hurry after him, and taking, perhaps, not more than a dozen steps, would
be brought to a sudden halt by running against him, immediately followed by the man in your
rear bumping up against yourself. Then would follow an indefinite wait until the column would
again move on a short distance. The wearing suspense of the long waiting, while standing on
our feet; the exasperating halts following those false starts, when everybody was almost frantic
with impatience to go on; the excessive physical fatigue, combined with the intense mental
strain when already haggard from much loss of sleep during the three days and nights preceding,
make that night memorable as by far the most trying in nearly four years of soldiering. It
afforded unspeakable relief when, just as daylight was beginning to dawn, our column finally
got away in rapid motion for Franklin, the enemy dogging our heels with their close pursuit.

The location of Hood's headquarters was central as to the position of his troops until nightfall,
and was, therefore, a proper one. But he was too far away to get any personal knowledge as
to what was going on at Spring Hill, and he had to rely on the reports of his subordinates
who were in contact with our troops. The character of those reports is unmistakably indicated
by the second move that Hood made. His second move, made after the fighting was all over, and
he had received the reports of that fighting, was based on the theory that all of Schofield's
army had reached Spring Hill, for, abandoning all purpose of cutting off any part south of
Spring Hill, it contemplated seizing the pike north of Spring Hill and cutting off Schofield's
retreat to Franklin.

Between sunset and dark, as stated by General Stewart, which would be about 5 o'clock at that
season of the year, he received orders to cross Rutherford's creek with his corps, to pass
to the right of Cheatham's corps, and to extend his right across the Franklin pike. After about
five hours Stewart finally went into bivouac with his right more than a mile away from the
Franklin pike. His explanations for his failure were the lack of a competent guide, the darkness
of the night, and the fatigue of his men. To accomplish Hood's orders required a march of a
little less than four miles by Stewart's head of column--about three miles by a direct country
road leading into the Mount Carmel road, and the remaining distance across the country lying
between the Mount Carmel road and the Franklin pike. It would seem that a guide might have
been found among the cavalry who had explored the country that afternoon in developing the
position of our line between the Mount Carmel road and the railway station, west of the Franklin
pike; or there were men in some of the Tennessee regiments whose homes were in that vicinity,
who were thoroughly familiar with the ground. That no great difficulties were involved in the
march is proved by the fact that Johnson's division made a similar march in about two hours,
later in the night, to get into position on Bate's left. The night was as dark, the men were
as tired, the distance was as great, and the way was as difficult for Johnson as for Stewart.
In view of these plain facts it is a fair inference that Stewart made a very lukewarm effort
to accomplish Hood's orders; that it was possible for him, by a display of no more energy than
Johnson displayed, to have extended his right across the Franklin pike as early as 8 o'clock,
and then when Schofield started north with Ruger's division about 9 o'clock, he would have
found the way effectually barred.

The prime cause of Hood's failure was apparently the lack of confidence in his generalship
on the part of so many of his subordinates. They had been dissatisfied with his appointment
to the command of the army, and their dissatisfaction had been greatly increased by the failure
of his attacks on Sherman's lines in front of Atlanta. With the poor opinion they held of Hood's
ability it was not possible for them to give to any plan of his that whole-hearted, unquestioning
support that gives the best guarantee of success. Simple as his plan was, they all failed to
grasp the importance of getting possession of the pike and, Cleburne excepted, they all acted
as if they were expecting a repetition of the disastrous experience that had followed the attacks
on Sherman. The promptness with which Cleburne turned and rolled up Bradley's brigade when
he was so unexpectedly assailed on his own flank, was the only energetic action on the part
of any of them after they had crossed Rutherford's creek; and, no doubt, if Cleburne had not
been halted by Cheatham's order, he would have gone on until he had reaped the full measure
of success made so easily possible by the faulty situation of our army. But amid all the exciting
occurrences of that eventful evening it is amazing that no inkling of that faulty situation
seems ever to have entered the mind of any one of those veteran generals.

