Marm Lisa

by Kate Douglas Wiggin

CHAPTER I--EDEN PLACE

Eden Place was a short street running at right angles with Eden Square, a most unattractive
and infertile triangle of ground in a most unattractive but respectable quarter of a large
city.  It was called a square, not so much, probably, because it was triangular in shape, as
because it was hardly large enough to be designated as a park.  As to its being called 'Eden,'
the origin of that qualifying word is enveloped in mystery; but it is likely that the enthusiastic
persons who projected it saw visions and dreamed dreams of green benches under umbrageous trees,
of a green wire fence, ever green, and of plots of blossoming flowers filling the grateful
air with unaccustomed fragrance.

As a matter of fact, the trees had always been stunted and stubby, the plants had never been
tended, and all the paint had been worn off the benches by successive groups of working-men
out of work.  As for the wire fence, it had been much used as a means of ingress and egress
by the children of the neighbourhood, who preferred it to any of the gateways, which they considered
hopelessly unimaginative and commonplace, offering no resistance to the budding man of valour
or woman of ambition.

Eden Place was frequented mostly by the children, who found it an admirable spot to squabble,
to fight, and to dig up the hapless earth; and after them, by persons out of suits with fortune.
These (generally men) adorned the shabby benches at all times, sleeping, smoking, reading newspapers,
or tracing uncertain patterns in the gravel with a stick,--patterns as uncertain and aimless
as themselves.  There were fewer women, because the unemployed woman of this class has an old-fashioned
habit, or instinct, of seeking work by direct assault; the method of the male being rather
to sit on a bench and discuss the obstacles, the injustices, and the unendurable insults heaped
by a plutocratic government in the path of the honest son of toil.

The corner house of Eden Place was a little larger than its neighbours in the same row.  Its
side was flanked by a sand-lot, and a bay window, with four central panes of blue glass, was
the most conspicuous feature of its architecture.  In the small front yard was a microscopic
flower-bed; there were no flowers in it, but the stake that held up a stout plant in the middle
was surmounted by a neat wooden sign bearing the inscription, 'No Smoking on these Premises.'
The warning seemed superfluous, as no man standing in the garden could have put his pipe in
his mouth without grazing either the fence or the house, but the owner of the 'premises' possibly
wished to warn the visitor at the very threshold.

All the occupied houses in Eden Place were cheerful and hospitable in their appearance, and
were marked by an air of liveliness and good- fellowship.  Bed linen hung freely from all the
windows, for there was no hard and fast law about making up beds at any special hour, though
a remnant of superstition still existed that it was a good thing to make up a bed before you
slept in it.  There were more women on their respective front steps, and fewer in their respective
kitchens, in Eden Place than in almost any other locality in the city.  That they lived for
the most part in close and friendly relations could be seen from the condition of the fences
between the front yards, whose upper rails fairly sagged with the weight of gossip.

One woman, living in the middle of the row, evidently possessed somewhat different views, for
she had planted vines on each of her division fences, rented her parlour to a lodger who only
slept there, kept all her front curtains drawn, and stayed in the hack of her house.  Such
retribution as could legally be wreaked upon this offensive and exclusive person was daily
administered by her two neighbours, who stood in their doors on either side and conversed across
her house and garden with much freedom and exuberance.  They had begged the landlord to induce
her to take up her abode elsewhere; but as she was the only tenant who paid her rent regularly,
he refused to part with her.

Any one passing the 'No Smoking' sign and entering the front door of Mrs. Grubb's house, on
the corner, would have turned off the narrow uncarpeted hall into the principal room, and,
if he were an observing person, would have been somewhat puzzled by its appearance.  There
were seven or eight long benches on one side, yet it had not the slightest resemblance to a
schoolroom.  The walls were adorned with a variety of interesting objects.  There was a chart
showing a mammoth human hand, the palm marked with myriads of purple lines.  There were two
others displaying respectively the interior of the human being in the pink-and-white purity
of total abstinence, and the same interior after years of intemperance had done their fatal
work; a most valuable chart this last, and one that had quenched the thirst of many a man.

The words 'Poverty Must Go' were wrought in evergreen letters over the bay window, and various
texts were printed in red and black and tacked to the wall in prominent places.  These were
such as -

To be a Flesh-Eater is to be a Shedder of Blood and a Destroyer of God's Innocent Creatures.'

'Now that Man has Begun to Ascend in the Scale of Being, let Woman Reach Down a Strong, Tender
Hand and Aid him in his Struggle for Moral and Spiritual Elevation.'

'Let the Pleasure Field be as Large as Possible.  Pains and Fears Lessen Growth.'

'I Believe that to Burden, to Bond, to Tax, to Tribute, to Impoverish, to Grind, to Pillage,
to Oppress, to Afflict, to Plunder, to Vampire the Life Labouring to Create Wealth is the Unpardonable
Sin.'

Over the mantel-shelf was a seaweed picture in a frame of shells, bearing the inscription,
'Unity Hall, Meeting-Place of the Order of Present Perfection.'  On a table, waiting to be
hung in place, was an impressive sort of map about four feet square.  This, like many of the
other ornaments in the room, was a trifle puzzling, and seemed at first, from its plenitude
of coloured spots, to be some species of moral propaganda in a state of violent eruption. 
It proved, however, on closer study, to be an ingenious pictorial representation of the fifty
largest cities of the world, with the successful establishment of various regenerating ideas
indicated by coloured discs of paper neatly pasted on the surface.  The key in the right-hand
corner read -

Temperance           Blue.
Single Tax           Green.
Cremation            Orange.
Abolition of War     Red.
Vegetarianism        Purple.
Hypnotism            Yellow.
 Dress Reform         Black.
 Social Purity        Blush Rose.
 Theosophy            Silver.
Religious Liberty    Magenta.
Emancipation of   }  Crushed Strawberry.
Woman             }

A small gold star, added to the coloured spot, hovering over the name of a city, was explained,
in the lower left-hand corner, as denoting the fact that the Eldorado face-powder was exclusively
used there, and that S. Cora Grubb was the sole agent for the Pacific coast.

Joseph's coat faded into insignificance in comparison with the city of Mrs. Grubb's present
residence, which appeared to be a perfect hot-bed of world-saving ideas, and was surrounded
by such a halo of spots that it would have struck the unregenerate observer as an undesirable
place in which to live, unless one wished to be broken daily on the rack of social progress.

This front room was Mrs. Grubb's only parlour.  The seven benches were rather in the way and
seemingly unnecessary, as the lady attended meetings morning, noon, and night in halls hired
for that purpose; but they gave her a feeling of security, as, in case one of her less flourishing
societies should be ejected from its hall, or in case she should wake up in the middle of the
night and want to hold a meeting of any club when all the halls were closed, the benches in
the parlour would make it possible without a moment's loss of time.

The room connecting with this was the family banquet-hall and kitchen in one, and as Mrs. Grubb's
opinions on diet were extremely advanced, it amply served the purpose.

There were three bedrooms upstairs, and the whole establishment was rather untidy in its aspect;
but, though it might have been much cleaner, it is only fair to say that it might also have
been much dirtier.

The house was deserted.  The only sound came from the back yard, and it was the echo of children's
voices.  It was not at all a merry prattle; it was a steady uproar interrupted by occasional
shrieks and yells, a clatter of falling blocks, beatings of a tin pan, a scramble of feet,
a tussle, with confusion of blows and thumps, and then generally a temporary lull in the proceedings,
evidently brought about by some sort of outside interference.  If you had pushed open the wire
door, you would have seen two children of four or five years disporting themselves in a sand-heap.
One was a boy and one a girl; and though they were not at all alike in feature or complexion,
there was an astonishing resemblance between them in size, in figure, in voice, in expression,
and, apparently, in disposition.

Sitting on a bench, watching them as a dog watches its master's coat, was a girl of some undeterminable
age,--perhaps of ten or twelve years.  She wore a shapeless stout gingham garment, her shoes
were many sizes too large for her, and the laces were dangling.  Her nerveless hands and long
arms sprawled in her lap as if they had no volition in them.  She sat with her head slightly
drooping, her knees apart, and her feet aimlessly turned in.  Her lower lip hung a little,
but only a little, loosely.  She looked neither at earth nor at sky, but straight at the two
belligerents, with whose bloodthirsty play she was obliged to interfere at intervals.  She
held in her lap a doll made of a roll of brown paper, with a waist and a neck indicated by
gingham strings.  Pieces of ravelled rope were pinned on the head part, but there was no other
attempt to assist the imagination.  She raised her dull eyes; they seemed to hold in their
depths a knowledge of aloofness from the happier world, and their dumb sorrow pierced your
very heart, while it gave you an irresistible sense of aversion.  She smiled, but the smile
only gave you a new thrill; it was vacant and had no joy in it, rather an uncommunicable grief.
As she sat there with her battered doll, she was to the superficial eye repulsive, but to the
eye that pierces externals she was almost majestic in her mysterious loneliness and separation.

The steam-whistle of a factory near by blew a long note for twelve o'clock, and she rose from
her bench, took the children by the hand, and dragged them, kindly but firmly, up the steps
into the kitchen. She laid her doll under a towel, but, with a furtive look at the boy, rolled
it in a cloth and tucked it under her skirt at the waist-line. She then washed the children's
faces, tied on their calico bibs, and pushed them up to the pine table.  While they battered
the board and each other with spoons and tin mugs, she went automatically to a closet, took
a dish of cold porridge and turned it into three bowls, poured milk over it, spread three thick
slices of wheat bread with molasses from a cup, and sat down at the table.  After the simple
repast was over, she led the still reluctant (constitutionally reluctant) twins up the staircase
and put them, shrieking, on a bed; left the room, locking the door behind her in a perfunctory
sort of way as if it were an everyday occurrence, crouched down on the rug outside, and, leaning
her head back against the wall, took her doll from under her skirt, for this was her playtime,
her hour of ease.

Poor little 'Marm Lisa,' as the neighbours called her!  She had all the sorrows and cares of
maternity with none of its compensating joys.

She did not look in the least a 'contrary' Miss Mary, as she stood on a certain flight of broad
wooden steps on a sunshiny morning; yet she was undoubtedly having her own way and living her
own life in spite of remonstrances from bevies of friends, who saw no shadow of reason or common-sense
in her sort of gardening.  It would have been foolish enough for a young woman with a small
living income to cultivate roses or violets or lavender, but this would at least have been
poetic, while the arduous tilling of a soil where the only plants were little people 'all in
a row' was something beyond credence.

The truth about Mistress Mary lay somewhere in the via media between the criticisms of her
sceptical friends and the encomiums of her enthusiastic admirers.  In forsaking society temporarily
she had no rooted determination to forsake it eternally, and if the incense of love which her
neophytes for ever burned at her shrine savoured somewhat of adoration, she disarmed jealousy
by frankly avowing her unworthiness and lack of desire to wear the martyr's crown.  Her happiness
in her chosen vocation made it impossible, she argued, to regard her as a person worthy of
canonisation; though the neophytes were always sighing to

'have that little head of hers Painted upon a background of pale gold.'

She had been born with a capacity for helping lame dogs over stiles; accordingly, her pathway,
from a very early age, had been bestrewn with stiles, and processions of lame dogs ever limping
towards them. Her vocation had called her so imperiously that disobedience was impossible.
It is all very well if a certain work asks one in a quiet and courteous manner to come and
do it, when one has time and inclination; but it is quite another matter if it coaxes one so
insistently that one can do nothing else properly, and so succumbs finally to the persuasive
voice.  Still, the world must be mothered somehow, and there are plenty of women who lack the
time or the strength, the gift or the desire, the love or the patience, to do their share.
This gap seems to be filled now and then by some inspired little creature like Mistress Mary,
with enough potential maternity to mother an orphan asylum; too busy, too absorbed, too radiantly
absent-minded to see a husband in any man, but claiming every child in the universe as her
very own. The poor fell to his knees and sobbed for a long time. He lifted his
head at last, and said silently watching the child:

- No, not go
to the hospice!

Multiple Wives, and even some lady too, had advised. But the idea of ​​leaving the son of her womb
in the hands of women employees sordid and brutal horror had forever. He fought bravely as he
could, depriving it of necessary sustenance enough times to feed the child, which already had
about three years. He had, however, to the fight and was defeated. He was the use of begging, but
besides the horror that caused him, understood very well that his days were numbered. And
dying it, what would become of the creature?

He pondered a good room with dry eyes fixed on the child, repeating
from time to time the same phrase:

- No, not go to the hospice!

Rose suddenly animated by a fatal desire, kissed her son passionately until managed to wake him,
envolviolo in a blanket and holding it at arms out of the house.

It was the hour of dusk. From the top of the worms, where Basilisa lived, could be seen arriving
the wharf and fishing boats. A crowd awaited them.

On the square, and the long street running from it to the church
by the sea, also ran a lot of people.

Basilisa took Rodillero the road that encircles the opposite side
gives the small cove Peñascosa front by front, and hurried away, almost
running.

- Why are you, Mom?

Where are we going? - Asked the boy with his tiny hands stroking
his face.

- We go to heaven, my love - said the unhappy eyes clouded
with tears.

- Are we going to Dad?

Could not answer, he felt a lump in my throat.

- Come to Daddy?

"- Insisted the young.

He paused a moment to catch his breath.

- Yes, let's see, rich mine - said after .-- Do not you want to go
to heaven with him?

- No, I with you.

And at the same time choked with tender arms and covered her face
with kisses.

- Why are you crying, Mom? - Asked surprised to feel
on the lips bitterness of tears .-- Can not you got anything?

Take my horn ...

And he offered a lead that had cost Basilisa two quarters. For Gil, who did not understand
existence without messing with something, the greatest misfortune that could be weighed on a was
human hands are empty.

The mother pressed her against his chest, laid on her rosy cheeks a shower of kisses and continued
the race. At a certain spot where the road is separated from the shore the sea and then, let
them fall and took a veredita leading to it. He came to the rocks tall dark surrounding it on
that road. He put his son on the floor and kneeling then tearfully prayed a prayer tablets, not
being addressed in the form, it should not listen to the Almighty.

It was almost dark. The sea was still, dark, waiting impassively to tears of that unfortunate woman
should come as so bitter to increase the flow of its waters. Side of the creek there was the
silhouette of the pier and three or four pataches that usually lie at anchor nearby. The group
of fishing boats, a little apart, moving and still ringing with the cries of women employed
in opening the fish's belly, while the husband lay seriously as a
tavern in the town.

Attended Basilisa a moment to those sounds so familiar. She also hoped her husband at one time,
stroking her with his eyes upon arrival, took from his hands the water binder, the case of rigging
and the basket of supplies and took them home with joy.

Mariano coming soon later and sat at the fireside, with dancing between
his paws to cute boy which had a few months.

The widow was a long time staring at the bank group, which appeared
as a report and movable mass. His son, sitting on the lawn, playing
the trumpet jamming ground.

Suddenly came to him, lifted his arms and ran toward the thin edge.

- Mom! Where are we going? - Shouted the child.

The answer, if he gave it, must be from heaven. Momentum jumped into a tailspin. Falling on the
stones of the shore, broke his head was dead on the spot: the child miraculously saved. The
womb from which he now poured out not to break apart spring.

An old sailor, who was at that time among those rocks for fishing
for octopus, heard noise and provided the first aid to the child.

Ran to the news soon flooded the place of people. The case produced a deep impression. Women
wept and went to tender infant from hand to hand and caresses lavished a thousand cares. Many
offered to adopt and there was dispute over who had to take it. Aware ladies of the village
and moved, also wanted to pick up the orphan. The fishermen's wives then gave to do so in the
interest of the former. It was therefore held by Ms Eloisa, Mrs. D. Martin Houses, seconded by another
six or eight ladies in no way wanted to give up participation as charitable work.

Gil's childhood (which was the name the orphan), if not happy, was not unhappy. Their protective
vigilance exercised over him a bit cheeky at times, a little humiliating too, but always loving and
well intentioned. Between them, although taking Ms main part Eloisa, paid for the upbringing
and boarding in a couple's house craftsman who lived in the worms, near the house where the
unfortunate widow lived. When was too old for this, he was sent to school. Showed signs of
being a kid peaceful, quiet, sensitive, and began to learn their lessons well. His seven or eight
mothers were in charge ask the master for his behavior and application
whenever you encountered on the street encouraging him to 'put you
tighten the screws.

"The teacher was responsible, in effect, tighten while reminding every moment, in front of his classmates,
his orphan their misery and the absolute necessity of showing that
he had humble and grateful to his beneficent.

This humility was the thing that never stopped singing to hear at the villa. How he stumbled
in the street and deigned to put his hand paternally on the head, they said:

- Beware of being humble!

Be obedient and submissive to the ladies that you have collected for charity Do you understand?
... charity.

And finally, his classmates were responsible generously was constantly warn an unhappy without
parents, nurtured by love and that should be in the hospice and non- alternating with distinguished
sons of shoemakers, masons, tailors and bakers fashioned, and leading other people no less worthy
of respect.

Teníala humility in the heart of the drowned child and the suicide,
if not had not it would be easy to ridicule and scorn inculcate their
peers, or the parental spanking the teacher and their protective,
because they all thought they were entitled to love, but to punish
him too.

His was a nature lover and appreciated. He understood that Protecting all should respect and
affection, and is taxed. Of course, in the depths of his heart felt preferences, that is irremediable.
Passionately loved Ms Eloisa. This good lady, who was the one most needed, never scolded or
punished, or even a word I said unpleasant tratábalo with extreme tenderness, caressed him as if
he were his son and hid and excused his little antics.

When he was twelve years old, met in conclave ladies and deliberated about what should be done
with the boy. Desechose unanimously the idea of ​​devoting to the office of his father. They thought
of several others, without being able to agree, until Ms Trinidad, the wife of D. Remigio Flórez,
a manufacturer of canned food, take a servant proposed messenger boy home. They nodded almost all
of this resolution, but Ms Eloisa, who was hurt, did this to her
friends that the boy had shown aptitude for studies, and would a meritorious
work to make him a priest.

The ladies have welcomed the idea enthusiastically. Only Ms Trinidad, large dotted lady and friend
to impose its will around the world, opposed strongly and withdrew from the meeting bland. Pasáronse
ladies without their help, and setting a monthly amount, would be paid to cleavage, sent the
boy Lancia seminar, capital of the province where we are.

Gil was a model seminarian, applied, sweet, respectful, caring religious practices and showing great
enthusiasm in them. The ladies who had no reason to congratulate the resolution. When I came to
Peñascosa holiday, brought to each Rector's letter expressing his satisfaction with the conduct
and progress of the fatherless. In the two or three months I stayed there, they provided some
services, reviewing the lessons to their children, assisting them in their prayers or serving as
a clerk, etc. Lived home of Ms Eloisa. Every summer they would turn a little, the child became
a man. At last he three consecutive years to come, to take the last orders. Decision time to become
a priest. When he appeared at last a day in costume Peñascosa priest, his presence caused deep emotion
in the heart of their protection. All mothers were considered him, and therefore entitled to
mourn for joy and fell into his arms tenderly.

Certainly, these reliefs were once loving some bickering between them. Because less loving
and tolerant with the child had shown were most extreme now with the man. This out of their
boxes to Ms. Eloisa, Ms Ms Theodora and Martial, always treated him with gentleness and even
mime.

Preparations began for the first mass. It was a contest of beauties among them. The rich, as
Ms Eloisa and Mrs Theodora, was commissioned to buy the cup and ornaments more expensive: those
who did not have such good fortune, as Ms Rita Ms Filomena and others, supplied the money with the
skill of his hands embroidering the alb, stole and altar cloth, which caused admiration. Fixed
the church and took part in the adornment not only these women, but many of the people, their friends.
It was an event Peñascosa brand, both for the quality of the people
who had paid for the race young priest, for the terrible circumstances
that had led to such protection.

The officiating was named godmother to Ms. Eloisa, an indication
of that.

None was better right to do so, but all are believed to both, and
this secret resentments rise again palabrillas and some unpleasant.

The pay he returned to the village and sang, his voice weak and trembling

-
Dominus vobiscum.

All the voices of the podium, tears and falls, accompanied by the roar answered body:

- Et cum spiritu tuooooo.

- What is white! - Said a young artisan's companion at his side.

- Looks like a picture.

Sang D. Narciso high-pitched voice, lowering and raising the tone and listened with pleasure,
epistle.

- Child, how repicotea the chaplain! - Repeated the craft.

- You see, there is the daughter of the hunchback. Want to show off.

He was very kind accredited in the town that D. Narcissus and the girl felt a mutual Osuna inclination,
but only the spirits heterodox and thugs dared to say high voice. D. Narcissus was indeed given
much to live among the weaker sex to enter the fort. So would Sarrió came about three years,
more or less, was the idol of the ladies Cliff by his elegant appearance, which was contrast
to the shabbiness of the most priests of the town, for his cheerful conversation, for his little
jokes and, above all, his love to be always among them. Was far from being beautiful or handsome,
was a man of thirty-five, dry, dark, big feet and juanetudos and ugly teeth; but had managed
to pass at once funny place. I never meant it to his devotees friends. Little joke goes, has
little joke, a compliment to this, a chufleta to the other, non-shortened never to be in the middle
of a large circle. In contrast, D. Narcissus extremely pleased it, enjoyed camp alone in the
house. Directed the consciousness of most of them and authorizing the lecture them out of the confessional,
sometimes harshly. Almost all received submit your corrections with, even with pleasure, and
if you temporarily revolted, was to demand forgiveness immediately. With this, Don Narciso was
the guest required in all Gaudeamus parties and fashionable society Peñascosa, ate voraciously,
and this made boast, drank the same tenor, and when the desserts arrived, never failed to
provide any coplita that was almost always dirty. Because D. Narcissus, who because of his
ministry not be authorized jokes concerning sex sex relationships are entitled to believe drop
the most nasty about other miseries of the human body. And ladies bizarre case! the laughing
and celebrating as if they were prodigious cleverness and wit. Two years later to come to the
villa had been a failure. Down the stairs of a certain house he frequented much, he broke his leg.
They said the lady's husband, who owned the house had helped to drop, not entirely agree with
the time and occasion of their visits; but instantly the good souls of Peñascosa rushed to
quell the rumor sacrilegious. And as proof of the indignation with which rejected the case, most
major ladies the town was formed in nurses beside his bed, leaving not a moment alone day and
night taking turns every few hours, as if the Blessed hiciesen guard.
D. Daffodil deserved such attention of the fair sex. No harder and
never dealt fervent zeal the salvation of the beautiful half of mankind.
Not only addressed with particular care awareness of that best represented
in Peñascosa, shepherding his sheep with love thus leaving some stone
throwing which strayed as diligent pastor era, but by dint of many
sleepless nights had been found a fraternity, established and in other
parts of Spain and abroad, the brotherhood of the Daughters of Mary.
In this brotherhood not fall more than young singles. Such privilege
excited a vague defiance mixed of appetite in married women. Creíanse
humiliated with that exclusion.  If she had been born
in Paris, at the proper time, she would have been the leader of a salon; separated from that
brilliant destiny by years, by race, and by imperious circumstance, she wielded the same sort
of sceptre in her own circumscribed but appreciative sphere.  No social occasion in Eden Place
was complete without Mrs. Grubb.  With her (and some light refreshment), a party lacked nothing;
without her, even if other conditions were favourable, it seemed a flat, stale, and unprofitable
affair.  Like Robin Adair,

'She made the ball so fine; She made th' occasion shine.'

Mrs. Grubb hanging on her front gate, duster in hand (she never conversed quite as well without
it, and never did anything else with it), might have been a humble American descendant of Madame
de Stael talking on the terrace at Coppet, with the famous sprig of olive in her fingers. 
She moved among her subjects like a barouche among express wagons, was heard after them as
a song after sermons.  That she did not fulfil the whole duty of woman did not occur to her
fascinated constituents.  There was always some duller spirit who could slip in and 'do the
dishes,' that Mrs. Grubb might grace a conversazione on the steps or at the gate.  She was
not one of those napkin people who hide their talents, or who immure their lights under superincumbent
bushels.  Whatever was hers was everybody's, for she dispensed her favours with a liberal hand.
She would never have permitted a child to suffer for lack of food or bed, for she was not at
heart an unkind woman.  You could see that by looking at her vague, soft brown eyes,--eyes
that never saw practical duties straight in front of them,--liquid, star-gazing, vision-seeing
eyes, that could never be focussed on any near object, such as a twin or a cooking-stove. 
Individuals never interested her; she cared for nothing but humanity, and humanity writ very
large at that, so that once the twins nearly died of scarlatina while Mrs. Grubb was collecting
money for the children of the yellow-fever sufferers in the South.

But Providence had an eye for Mr. Grubb's perplexities.  It does not and cannot always happen,
in a world like this, that vice is assisted to shirk, and virtue aideth to do, its duty; but
any man as marvellously afflicted as Mr. Grubb is likely to receive not only spiritual consolation,
but miraculous aid of some sort.  The spectacle of the worthy creature as he gave the reluctant
twins their occasional bath, and fed them on food regularly prescribed by Mrs. Grubb, and almost
as regularly rejected by them, would have melted the stoniest heart.  And who was the angel
of deliverance?  A little vacant-eyed, half-foolish, almost inarticulate child, whose feeble
and sickly mother was dragging out a death-in-life existence in a street near by.  The child
saw Mr. Grubb wheeling the twins in a double perambulator:  followed them home; came again,
and then again, and then again; hung about the door, fell upon a dog that threatened to bite
them, and drove it away howling; often stood over the perambulator with a sunshade for three
hours at a time, without moving a muscle; and adored Mr. Grubb with a consuming passion. There
was no special reason for this sentiment, but then Alisa Bennett was not quite a reasonable
being.  Mr. Grubb had never been adored before in his life; and to say the truth, his personality
was not winning.  He had a pink, bald head, pale blue eyes, with blond tufts for eyebrows,
and a pointed beard dripping from his chin, which tended to make him look rather like an invalid
goat.  But as animals are said to have an eye for spirits, children have an eye for souls,
which is far rarer than an eye for beautiful surfaces.

Mr. Grubb began by loathing Alisa, then patiently suffered her, then pitied, then respected,
then loved her.  Mrs. Grubb seldom saw her, and objected to nothing by which she herself was
relieved of care. So Lisa grew to be first a familiar figure in the household, and later an
indispensable one.

Poor Mrs. Bennett finally came to the end of things temporal.  'Dying is the first piece of
good luck I ever had,' she said to Mr. Grubb. 'If it turns out that I've brought a curse upon
an innocent creature, I'd rather go and meet my punishment half-way than stay here and see
it worked out to the end.'

'"In my Father's house are many mansions,"' stammered Mr. Grubb, who had never before administered
spiritual consolation.

She shook her head.  'If I can only get rid of this world, it's all I ask,' she said; 'if the
other one isn't any better, why, it can't be any worse!  Feel under the mattress and you'll
find money enough to last three or four years.  It's all she'll ever get, for she hasn't a
soul now to look to for help.  That's the way we human beings arrange things,--we, or the Lord,
or the Evil One, or whoever it is; we bring a puzzle into the world, and then leave it for
other people to work out--if they can!  Who'll work out this one?  Who'll work out this one?
Perhaps she'll die before the money's gone; let's hope for the best.'

'Don't take on like that!' said Mr. Grubb despairingly,--'don't! Pray for resignation, can't you?'

'Pray!' she exclaimed scornfully.  'Thank goodness, I've got enough self-respect left not to
pray!--Yes, I must pray, I MUST . . . Oh, God!  I do not ask forgiveness for him or for myself;
I only beg that, in some way I cannot see, we may be punished, and she spared!'

And when the stricken soul had fled from her frail body, they who came to prepare her for the
grave looked at her face and found it shining with hope.

It was thus that poor little Alisa Bennett assumed maternal responsibilities at the age of
ten, and gained her sobriquet of 'Marm Lisa.'  She grew more human, more tractable, under Mr.
Grubb's fostering care; but that blessed martyr had now been dead two years, and she began
to wear her former vacuous look, and to slip back into the past that was still more dreadful
than the present.

It seemed to Mrs. Grubb more than strange that she, with her desire for freedom, should be
held to earth by three children not flesh of her flesh--and such children.  The father of the
twins had been a professional pugilist, but even that fact could never sufficiently account
for Pacific Simonson.  She had apparently inherited instincts from tribes of warlike ancestors
who skulked behind trees with battle-axes, and no one except her superior in size and courage
was safe from her violent hand.  She had little, wicked, dark eyes and crimson, swollen cheeks,
while Atlantic had flaxen hair, a low forehead, and a square jaw.  He had not Pacific's ingenuity
in conceiving evil; but when it was once conceived, he had a dogged persistency in carrying
it out that made him worthy of his twin.

Yet with all these crosses Mrs. Grubb was moderately cheerful, for her troubles were as nebulous
as everything else to her mind.  She intended to invent some feasible plan for her deliverance
sooner or later, but she was much more intent upon development than deliverance, and she never
seemed to have the leisure to break her shackles.  Nothing really mattered much.  Her body
might be occasionally in Eden Place, but her soul was always in a hired hall. She delighted
in joining the New Order of Something,--anything, so long as it was an Order and a new one,--and
then going with a selected committee to secure a lodge-room or a hall for meetings. She liked
to walk up the dim aisle with the janitor following after her, and imagine brilliant lights
(paid for by collection), a neat table and lamp and pitcher of iced water, and herself in the
chair as president or vice-president, secretary or humble trustee.  There was that about her
that precluded the possibility of simple membership. She always rose into office the week after
she had joined any society.  If there was no office vacant, then some bold spirit (generally
male) would create one, that Mrs. Grubb might not wither in the privacy of the ranks.  Before
the charter members had fully learned the alphabet of their order and had gained a thorough
understanding of the social revolution it was destined to work, Mrs. Grubb had mastered the
whole scheme and was unfolding it before large classes for the study of the higher theory.
The instant she had a tale to tell she presumed the 'listening earth' to be ready to hear it.
The new Order became an old one in course of time, and, like the nautilus.  Mrs. Grubb outgrew
her shell and built herself a more stately chamber.  Another clue to the universe was soon
forthcoming, for all this happened in a city where it is necessary only for a man to open his
lips and say, 'I am a prophet', and followers flock unto him as many in number as the stars.
She was never disturbed that the last clue had brought her nowhere; she followed the new one
as passionately as the old, and told her breathless pupils that their feet must not be weary,
for they were treading the path of progress; that these apparently fruitless excursions into
the domain of knowledge all served as so many milestones in their glorious ascent of the mountain
of truth.

CHAPTER IV--MARM LISA IS TRANSPLANTED

It was precisely as Rhoda thought and feared.  The three strange beings who had drifted within
Mistress Mary's reach had proved to belong to her simply because they did not belong to anybody
else. They did not know their names, the streets in which they lived, or anything else about
which they were questioned, but she had followed them home to the corner house of Eden Place,
although she failed, on the occasion of that first visit, to find Mrs. Grubb within.  There
was, however, a very voluble person next door, who supplied a little information and asked
considerable more.  Mrs. Sylvester told Mary that Mrs. Grubb was at that moment presiding over
a meeting of the Kipling Brothers in Unity Hall, just round the corner.

'They meet Tuesdays and Thursdays at four o'clock,' she said, 'and you'd find it a real treat
if you like to step over there.'

'Thank you, I am rather busy this afternoon,' replied Mary.

'Do you wish to leave any name or message?  Did you want a setting?'

'A sitting?' asked Mary vaguely.  'Oh no, thank you; I merely wished to see Mrs. Grubb--is
that the name?'

'That's it, and an awful grievance it is to her--Mrs. S. Cora Grubb. You have seen it in the
newspapers, I suppose; she has a half column "ad." in the Sunday Observer once a month.  Wouldn't
you like your nails attended to?  I have a perfectly splendid manicure stopping with me.'

'No, thank you.  I hoped to see Mrs. Grubb, to ask if her children can come and spend the morning
with me to-morrow.'

'Oh, that'll be all right; they're not her children; she doesn't care where they go; they stay
in the back yard or on the sand-lot most of the time:  she's got something more important to
occupy her attention.  Say, I hope you'll excuse me, but you look a little pale. If you were
intending to get some mental healing from Mrs. Grubb, why, I can do it; she found I had the
power, and she's handed all her healing over to me.  It's a new method, and is going to supersede
all the others, we think.  My hours are from ten to twelve, and two to four, but I could take
you evenings, if you're occupied during the day.  My cures are almost as satisfactory as Mrs.
Grubb's now, though I haven't been healing but six months last Wednesday.'

'Fortunately I am very well and strong,' smiled Mistress Mary.

'Yes, that's all right, but you don't know how soon sickness may overtake you, if you haven't
learned to cast off fear and practise the denials.  Those who are living in error are certain
to be affected by it sooner or later, unless they accept the new belief. Why don't you have
your nails done, now you're here?  My manicure has the highest kind of a polish,--she uses
pumice powder and the rose of Peru lustre; you ought to try her; by taking twenty tickets you
get your single treatments for thirty-five cents apiece.  Not this afternoon?  Well, some other
time, then.  It will be all right about the children and very good of you to want them.  Of
course you can't teach them anything, if that's your idea.  Belief in original sin is all against
my theories, but I confess I can't explain the twins without it.  I sometimes wonder I can
do any healing with them in the next house throwing off evil influences.  I am treating Lisa
by suggestion, but she hasn't responded any yet.  Call again, won't you? Mrs. Grubb is in from
seven to eight in the morning, and ten-thirty to eleven-thirty in the evening.  You ought to
know her; we think there's nobody like Mrs. Grubb; she has a wonderful following, and it's
growing all the time; I took this house to be near her.  Good afternoon.  By the way, if you
or any of your friends should require any vocal culture, you couldn't do better than take of
Madame Goldmarker in No. 17.  She can make anybody sing, they say.  I'm taking of her right
along, and my voice has about doubled in size.  I ought to be leading the Kipling Brothers
now, but my patients stayed so late to-day I didn't get a good start.  Good afternoon.'

The weeks wore on, and the children were old friends when Mary finally made Mrs. Grubb's acquaintance;
but in the somewhat hurried interviews she had with that lady at first, she never seemed able
to establish the kind of relation she desired.  The very atmosphere of her house was chaotic,
and its equally chaotic mistress showed no sign of seeking advice on any point.

'Marm Lisa could hardly be received in the schools,' Mary told the listening neophytes one
afternoon when they were all together. 'There ought of course to be a special place for her
and such as she, somewhere, and people are beginning to see and feel the importance of it here;
but until the thought and hope become a reality the State will simply put the child in with
the idiots and lunatics, to grow more and more wretched, more hopeless, more stupid, until
the poor little light is quenched in utter darkness.  There is hope for her now, I am sure
of it.  If Mrs. Grubb's neighbours have told me the truth, any physical malady that may be
pursuing her is in its very first stages; for, so far as they know in Eden Place, where one
doesn't look for exact knowledge, to be sure, she has had but two or three attacks ("dizziness"
or "faintness" they called them) in as many years.  She was very strange and intractable just
before the last one, and much clearer in her mind afterwards.  They think her worse of late,
and have advised Mrs. Grubb to send her to an insane asylum if she doesn't improve.  She would
probably have gone there long ago if she had not been such a valuable watch-dog for the twins;
but she does not belong there,--we have learned that from the doctors.  They say decisively
that she is curable, but that she needs very delicate treatment.  My opinion is that we have
a lovely bit of rescue-work sent directly into our hands in the very nick of time. All those
in favour of opening the garden gates a little wider for Marm Lisa respond by saying "Ay!"'

There was a shout from the neophytes that shook the very rafters-- such a shout that Lisa shuttled
across the room, and, sitting down on a stool at Mistress Mary's feet, looked up at her with
a dull, uncomprehending smile.  Why were those beloved eyes full of tears? She could not be
displeased, for she had been laughing a moment before.  She hardly knew why, but Mistress Mary's
wet eyes tortured her; she made an ejaculation of discomfort and resentment, and taking the
corner of her apron wiped her new friend's face softly, gazing at her with a dumb sorrow until
the smile came back; then she took out her string and her doll and played by herself as contentedly
as usual.

It was thus that heaven began to dawn on poor Marm Lisa.  At first only a physical heaven:
temporary separation from Atlantic and Pacific; a chair to herself in a warm, sunshiny room;
beautiful, bright, incomprehensible things hanging on the walls; a soft gingham apron that
her clumsy fingers loved to touch; brilliant bits of colour and entrancing waves of sound that
roused her sleeping senses to something like pleasure; a smile meeting her eyes when she looked
up--oh! she knew a smile--God lets love dwell in these imprisoned spirits!  By-and-by all these
new sensations were followed by thoughts, or something akin to them.  Her face wore a brooding,
puzzled look, 'Poor little soul, she is feeling her growing-pains!' said Mistress Mary.  It
was a mind sitting in a dim twilight where everything seems confused.  The physical eye appears
to see, but the light never quite pierces the dimness nor reflects its beauty there. If the
ears hear the song of birds, the cooing of babes, the heart- beat in the organ tone, then the
swift little messengers that fly hither and thither in my mind and yours, carrying echoes of
sweetness unspeakable, tread more slowly here, and never quite reach the spirit in prison.
A spirit in prison, indeed, but with one ray of sunlight shining through the bars,--a vision
of duty.  Lisa's weak memory had lost almost all trace of Mr. Grubb as a person but the old
instinct of fidelity was still there in solution, and unconsciously influenced her actions.
The devotion that first possessed her when she beheld the twins as babies in the perambulator
still held sway against all their evil actions.  If they plunged into danger she plunged after
them without a thought of consequences.  There was, perhaps, no real heroism in this, for she
saw no risks and counted no cost:  this is what other people said, but Mistress Mary always
thought Marm Lisa had in her the stuff out of which heroes and martyrs are made.  She had never
walked in life's sunny places; it had always been the valley of the shadow for her.  She was
surrounded by puzzles with never any answer to one of them, but if only she had comprehended
the truth, it was these very puzzles that were her salvation.  While her feeble mind stirred,
while it wondered, brooded, suffered,--enough it did all these too seldom,--it kept itself
alive, even if the life were only like the flickering of a candle.  And now the candle might
flicker, but it should never go out altogether, if half a dozen pairs of women's hands could
keep it from extinction; and how patiently they were outstretched to shield the poor apology
for a flame, and coax it into burning more brightly!

'Let the child choose her own special teacher,' said Mistress Mary; 'she is sure to have a
strong preference.'

'Then it will be you,' laughed Helen.

'Don't be foolish; it may be any one of us and it will prove nothing in any case, save a fancy
that we can direct to good use.  She seldom looks at anybody but you,' said Edith.

'That is true,' replied Mary thoughtfully.  'I think she is attracted by this glittering steel
thing in my hair.  I am going to weave it into Helen's curly crop some day, and see whether
she misses it or transfers her affection.  I have made up my mind who is the best teacher for
her, and whom she will chose.'

Rhoda gave a comical groan.  'Don't say it's I,' she pleaded.  'I dread it.  Please I am not
good enough, I don't know how; and besides, she gives me the creeps!'

Mistress Mary turned on Rhoda with a reproachful smile, saying, 'You naughty Rhoda, with the
brightest eyes, the swiftest feet, the nimblest fingers, the lightest heart among us all, why
do you want to shirk?'

Mistress Mary had noted the fact that Lisa had refused to sit in an unpainted chair, but had
dragged a red one from another room and ensconced herself in it, though it was uncomfortably small.

Now Rhoda was well named, for she was a rose of a girl, with damask cheeks that glowed like
two Jacqueminot beauties.  She was much given to aprons of scarlet linen, to collars and belts
of red velvet, and she had a general air of being fresh, thoroughly alive, and in a state of
dewy and perennial bloom.  Mary was right in her surmise, and whenever she herself was out
of Lisa's sight or reach the child turned to Rhoda instinctively and obeyed her implicitly.

CHAPTER V--THE NEW PLANT GREW

'Now, Rhoda dear,' said Mistress Mary one day, when Lisa had become somewhat wonted to her
new surroundings, 'you are to fold your hands respectfully in your lap and I will teach you
things,--things which you in your youth and inexperience have not thought about as yet. The
other girls may listen, too, and catch the drippings of my wisdom.  I really know little about
the education of defective children, but, thank heaven, I can put two and two together, as
Susan Nipper said.  The general plan will be to train Lisa's hands and speak to her senses
in every possible way, since her organs of sense are within your reach, and those of thought
are out of it.  The hardest lesson for such a child to learn is the subordination of its erratic
will to our normal ones.  Lisa's attention is the most hopeful thing about her and encourages
me more than anything else. It is not as if there were no mental processes existing; they are
there, but in a very enfeebled state.  Of course she should have been under skilled teaching
the six years, but, late as it is, we couldn't think of giving up a child who can talk, use
her right hand, dress herself, go upon errands, recognise colours, wash dishes; who is apparently
neither vicious nor cunning, but who, on the contrary, has lived four years under the same
roof with Mrs. S. Cora Grubb without rebellion or violence or treachery!  Why, dear girls,
such a task, if it did not appeal to one on the moral, certainly would on the intellectual,
side.  Marm Lisa will teach us more in a year, you may be sure, than we shall teach her.  Let
us keep a record of our experiments; drop all materials that seem neither to give her sensations
nor wake her discriminative power, and choose others that speak to her more clearly.  Let us
watch her closely, both to penetrate the secret of her condition and to protect the other children.
What a joy, what a triumph to say to her some dear day, a few years hence, "You poor, motherless
bairn, we have swept away the cobwebs of your dreams, given you back your will, put a clue
to things in your hand:  now go on and learn to live and be mistress of your own life under God!"'

It was at such a moment, when Mary's voice trembled, and her eyes shone through a mist of tears
like two victorious stars, that a hush fell upon the little group, and the spirit of the eternal
child descended like a dove, its pure wings stirring the silence of each woman's heart.  At
such a moment, their daily work, with its round of harsh, unlovely, beautiful, discouraging,
hopeful, helpful, heavenly duties, was transfigured, and so were they.  The servant was transformed
by the service, and the service by the servant.  They were alone together, each heart knit
to all the others by the close bond of a common vocation; and though a heretofore unknown experience,
it seemed a natural one when Mistress Mary suddenly bent her head, and said softly:

'Father in heaven, it is by the vision of Thy relation to us that we can apprehend our relation
to these little ones.  As we have accepted that high trust, so make us loyal to it.  When our
feet grow weary and our faith grows dim, help us to follow close after the ever perfect One
who taught even as we are trying to teach.  He it was whom the common people heard gladly.
He it was who disdained not the use of objects and symbols, remembering it was the childhood
of the race.  He it was who spake in parables and stories, laying bare soul of man and heart
of nature, and revealing each by divine analogy.  He it was who took the little ones in His
arms and blessed them; who set the child in the midst, saying, "Except ye become as one of
these." May the afterglow of that inspired teaching ever shine upon the path we are treading.
May we bathe our tired spirits in its warmth and glory, and kindle our torches at the splendour
of its light.  We remember that He told us to feed His lambs.  Dear Lord, help all the faithful
shepherds who care for the ninety-and-nine that lie in the safe cover of the fold; help us,
too, for we are the wandering shepherds whose part it is to go out over the bleak hills, up
the mountain sides and rocky places, and gather in out of the storm and stress of things all
the poor, unshepherded, wee bit lammies that have either wandered forlornly away from shelter,
or have been born in the wilderness, and know no other home.  Such an one has just strayed
into the fold from the dreary hill-country.  It needs a wiser shepherd than any one of us.
Grant that by gentleness, patience, and insight we may atone somewhat for our lack of wisdom
and skill.  We read among Thy mysteries that the divine Child was born of a virgin. May He
be born again and born daily in our hearts, already touched by that remembrance and consecrated
by its meaning.  And this we ask for love's sake.  Amen.'

Then there was a space of silence--one of those silences in which we seem to be caught up into
the heart of things, when hidden meanings are revealed, when the soul stretches itself and
grows a little.

It was a few minutes later when Rhoda said, 'I am fired with zeal, I confess it.  Henceforth
my single aim shall be to bring Marm Lisa into her lost kingdom and inheritance.  But meanwhile,
how, oh how shall I master the hateful preliminaries?  How shall I teach her to lace her shoes
and keep them laced, unless I invent a game for it? How shall I keep her hair from dangling
in her eyes, how keep her aprons neat?--though in those respects she is no worse than Pacific
Simonson.  I promised her a doll yesterday, and she was remarkably good.  Do you object, Mistress
Mary?'

'I don't know how much rewards are used in these cases,' answered Mary, 'but why do you begin
with them when the problem presents no insuperable difficulties as yet?  Whenever she herself,
her awkward hands, her weak will, her inattention, her restlessness, give her some task she
likes, some pleasure or occupation for which she has shown decided preference, and thus make
happiness follow close upon the heels of effort.  We who see more clearly the meaning of life
know that this will not always happen, and we can be content to do right for right's sake.
I don't object to your putting hosts of slumbering incentives in Lisa's mind, but a slumbering
incentive is not vulgar and debasing, like a bribe.'

A plant might be a feeble and common thing, yet it might grow in beauty and strength in a garden
like Mistress Mary's.  Such soil in the way of surroundings, such patient cultivation of roots
and stems, such strengthening of tendrils on all sorts of lovely props, such sunshine of love,
such dew of sympathy, such showers of kindness, such favouring breezes of opportunity, such
pleasure for a new leaf, joy for a bud, gratitude for a bloom!  What an atmosphere in which
to grow towards knowledge and goodness!  Was it any wonder that the little people 'all in a
row' responded to the genius of Mistress Mary's influence?  They used to sing a song calleth
The Light Bird,' in which some one, all unknown to the children, would slip into the playground
with a bit of broken looking-glass, and suddenly a radiant fluttering disk of light would appear
on the wall, and dance up and down, above and below, hither and yon, like a winged sunbeam.
The children held out longing arms, and sang to it coaxingly.  Sometimes it quivered over Mistress
Mary's head, and fired every delicate point of her steel tiara with such splendour that the
Irish babies almost felt like crossing themselves.  At such times, those deux petits coeurs
secs, Atlantic and Pacific, and all the other full-fledged and half-fledged scape-graces, forgot
to be naughty, and the millennium was foreshadowed.  The neophytes declared Mistress Mary a
bit of a magician.  Somehow or other, the evil imps in the children shrank away, abashed by
the soft surprise of a glance that seemed to hope something better, and the good angels came
out of their banishment, unfolded their wings, and sunned themselves in the warmth of her approving
smile.  Her spiritual antennae were so fine, so fine, that they discerned the good in everything;
they were feeling now after the soft spot in the rocky heart of Atlantic Simonson; they had
not found it yet, but they would--oh, they would in time; for if hope is the lover's staff,
it is no less that of the idealist.

Marm Lisa looked upon the miracles that happened under Mistress Mary's roof with a sort of
dazed wonder, but her intelligence grew a little day by day; and though she sadly taxed everybody's
patience, she infused a new spirit into all the neophytes.

Had not improvement been rapid, their untrained zeal might perhaps have flagged.  Had the mental
symptoms, by their obscurity, baffled them or defied them on every side, their lack of systematic,
scientific training for such a task might have made them discouraged: but delicate and exacting
as the work was, their love and enthusiasm, their insight and patience, their cleverness and
ingenuity, triumphed over all obstacles; and luckily for their youth and comparative inexperience,
they were rewarded in marvellous measure.

Not that every day was bright and hopeful.  The carefully kept record was black enough on occasions,
beginning with the morning when Helen, sitting in the circle, felt a rough hand on her head,
and Marm Lisa, without the slightest warning of her intention, snatched Mary's steel band forcibly
from her hair, and, taking it across the room, put it in its accustomed place on its owner's
head.  Everybody was startled, but Mary rose from her chair quietly, and, taking the ornament
in one hand and Marm Lisa in the other, she came to Helen's side.

'I like to have my shining crown in Miss Helen's hair,' she said; 'it is such pretty, curly
hair--stroke it softly, Lisa; she must wear it this morning to please me, and then I will take
it again for my own. Dear Miss Helen, who is so sweet and good to the children, I love her,'
and she kissed her fondly on each cheek.

Marm Lisa did not attempt to rebel but she was sullen, and refused her work when it was offered
her later.

Such occurrences were rare, however, for her obliquity always seemed mental rather than moral.

Straws and bright papers, beads and pretty forms to thread on stout laces, were given her to
wean her from her favourite but aimless string-play.  There were days of restlessness which
she wandered up and down stairs, and could not be kept in her chair nor persuaded to stand
in her place in the circle.  There were days, too, when she tore the bright cardboards and
glossy weaving-mats that ordinarily gave her such keen pleasure; but this carelessness grew
more and more infrequent, until it ceased altogether, so that it had probably come more from
her inability to hold and move the materials and needles properly than from a wanton instinct
of destruction; for they would often see the tears drop from her eyes upon her clumsy fingers
as she strove to make them obey her feeble behests.  At such a moment there was always some
one to fling herself with passionate ardour and sympathy into this latest difficulty.  A stouter
weaving-needle was invented, and a mat of pretty coloured morocco substituted for the fragile
paper; while the poor inert hands were held and coaxed and strengthened every day by finger
gymnastics.

As Lisa grew in power Rhoda grew in ingenuity, and failure in any one particular only stimulated
her genius of invention the more.  Did she spill paste, mucilage, water on her gingham aprons,
and wipe anything and everything on them that came in her way, Rhoda dressed her in daintier
ones of white cambric, with a ruffle at the neck and sleeves; the child's pleasure knew no
bounds, and she kept the aprons clean.  With Mrs. Grubb's permission her hair was cut shorter,
and brushed back under a round comb.  No regiment of soldiers could have kept the comb in place.
It was taken away and a blue ribbon substituted.  She untied the ribbon every five minutes
for two days, when Mary circumvented her by sewing a blue ribbon on each sleeve. This seemed
to divert her attention from the head-band, and after a week or two she allowed it to remain
without interference.  Mary gave her low shoes, hoping that the lessened trouble of lacing
them would make the task a possibility.  There was no improvement.  If she laced them, it was
only under supervision, and they were always untied within the hour, the dangling laces tripping
her awkward feet. Slippers or old-fashioned shoes with elastic at the side would have been
an easy way out of the difficulty, but to Rhoda's mind that would have been a humiliating confession
of failure.  As a last resort she bought brown shoes and brown laces.

'If these do not succeed,' she said, 'I will have red ones made, paint the tips blue, and give
her yellow laces; but I will fix her mind on her feet and arouse her pride in them, or die
in the attempt.'

This extreme, fortunately, proved unnecessary, since for some unknown reason the brown foot-gear
appealed to Marm Lisa, and she kept the laces tied.  The salient peculiarity and encouraging
feature of the child's development was that, save in rare cases, she did not slip back into
her old habits when the novelty of the remedy wore off; with her, almost every point gained
was a point kept.  It was indeed a high Hill Difficulty that she was climbing--so high that
had she realised it she would never have taken the first step of her own unaided will; but
now this impelling force behind her was so great, and the visions for ever leading her on were
so beautiful, that she ran nor grew weary, she walked yet did not faint.

The other children, even the youngest of them, were more or less interested in the novel enterprise,
too, though they scarcely knew the nature of it or how much was at stake.  That a human mind
was tottering to its fall, and that Mistress Mary was engaged in preventing it, was beyond
their ken.  They could see certain details, however, for they were all one great family of
little people, and it was no unaccustomed thing for them to watch a moral conquest, though
they had no conception of an intellectual one.

Accordingly, there was a shout of triumph from a corner of the room one morning,--such a shout
that seventy or eighty youngsters held their breath to see what was happening.

After weeks upon weeks of torn cards, broken threads, soiled patterns, wrong stitches, weak
hand held in place by strong hand, Marm Lisa had sewed without help, and in one lesson, the
outline of a huge red apple; and there she stood, offering her finished work to Mistress Mary.
The angels in heaven never rejoiced more greatly over the one repentant sinner than the tired
shepherdesses over their one poor ewe lamb, as she stood there with quivering hands and wet
eyes, the first sense of conscious victory written on her inscrutable brow, and within the
turbid, clouded brain the memory of a long struggle, and a hint, at least, of the glory she
had achieved.

Rhoda took the square of neat cardboard with the precious red circle that meant so much, and
ran into the playground with it, hugging it to her heart, and crying and laughing over it like
a child.

When she came back Mistress Mary put her arm round Lisa's waist and said to the whole great
family:  'Children, after trying hard, for ever so long, Lisa has sewed this lovely picture
all by herself. There is not a wrong stitch, and one side is as neat as the other. What shall
we say?'

'Three cheers!  The Chinese must go!' shouted Pat Higgins, a patriotic person of five years,
whose father was an organiser of sand-lot meetings.

All the grown-ups laughed at this unexpected suggestion, but the cheers were given with a good
will, and Marm Lisa, her mind stirred to its depths by the unwonted emotion, puzzled out the
meaning of them and hid it in her heart.

CHAPTER VI--FROM GRUBB TO BUTTERFLY

The children were all nearly a year older when Mrs. Grubb one day climbed the flight of wooden
steps heading to Marm Lisa's Paradise, and met, as she did so, a procession of Mistress Mary's
neophytes who were wending their way homeward.

The spectacle of a number of persons of either sex, or of both sexes, proceeding in hue or
grouped as an audience, acted on Mrs. Grubb precisely as the taste of fresh blood is supposed
to act on a tiger in captivity.  At such a moment she had but one impulse, and that was to
address the meeting.  The particular subject was not vital, since it was never the subject,
but her own desire to talk, that furnished the necessary inspiration.  While she was beginning,
'Ladies and gentlemen,' in her clear, pheasant voice, her convictions, opinions, views, prejudices,
feelings, experiences, all flew from the different corners of what she was pleased to call
her brain, and focussed themselves on the point in question.

If the discussion were in a field in which she had made no excursions whatever, that trifling
detail did not impose silence upon her.  She simply rose, and said:

'Ladies and gentlemen, though a stranger in your midst, I feel I must say a word of sympathy
to you, and a word of encouragement for your cause.  It is a good and worthy movement, and
I honour you for upholding it.  Often and often have I said to my classes, it matters not what
face of truth is revealed to you so long as you get a vision that will help you to bless your
fellow-men.  To bless your fellow- men is the great task before each and every one of us, and
I feel to urge this specially upon occasions like this, when I see a large and influential
audience before me.  Says Rudyard Kipling, "I saw a hundred men on the road to Delhi, and they
were all my brothers." Yes, all our brothers!  The brotherhood of man and the sisterhood of
woman, those are the subjects that include all others.  I am glad to have met with you, and
to have heard the eloquent words of your speakers.  If any of you would like to know more of
my work, I will gladly meet you in Room A at the close of this meeting.'

She then sat down amid applause.  Never did Mrs. S. Cora Grubb cease speaking without at least
a ripple of approval that sometimes grew into a positive ovation.  What wonder, then, that
she mistook herself for an inspired person?  It was easy to understand her popularity with
her fellow-men.  Her eyes were as soft and clear as those of a child, her hair waved prettily
off her low, serene brow, her figure was plump and womanly, and when her voice trembled with
emotion (which in her was a shallow well very near the surface) the charmingest pink colour
came and went in her cheeks.  On such occasions more than one member of the various brotherhoods
thought what a cosy wife she would make, if removed from the public arena to the 'sweet, safe
corner of the household fire.'  To be sure, she had not much logic, but plenty of sentiment;
rather too great a fondness for humanity, perhaps, but that was because she had no husband
and family of her own to absorb her superfluous sympathy and energy. Mrs. Grubb was not so
easily classified as these 'brothers' imagined, however, and fortunately for them she had no
leanings towards any man's fireside.  Mr. Grubb had died in the endeavour to understand her,
and it is doubtful whether, had he been offered a second life and another opportunity, he would
have thought the end justified the means.

This criticism, however, applies only to the family circle, for Mrs. Grubb in a hall was ever
winning, delightful, and persuasive.  If she was illogical, none of her sister-women realised
it, for they were pretty much of the same chaotic order of mind, though with this difference:
that a certain proportion of them were everywhere seeking reasons for their weariness, their
unhappiness, their poverty, their lack of faith and courage, their unsatisfactory husbands
and their disappointing children.  These ladies were apt to be a trifle bitter, and much more
interested in Equal Suffrage, Temperance, Cremation, and Edenic Diet than in subjects like
Palmistry, Telepathy, and Hypnotism, which generally attracted the vague, speculative, feather-headed
ones.  These discontented persons were always the most frenzied workers and the most eloquent
speakers, and those who were determined to get more rights were mild compared with those who
were determined to avenge their wrongs.  There was, of course, no unanimity of belief running
through all these Clubs, Classes, Circles, Societies, Orders, Leagues, Chapters, and Unions;
but there was one bond of aversion, and that was domestic service of any kind.  That no woman
could develop or soar properly, and cook, scrub, sweep, dust, wash dishes, mend, or take care
of babies at the same time--to defend this proposition they would cheerfully have gone to the
stake.  They were willing to concede all these sordid tasks as an honourable department of
woman's work, but each wanted them to be done by some other woman.

Mrs. Grubb really belonged to neither of these classes.  She was not very keen about more rights,
nor very bloodthirsty about her wrongs. She inhabited a kind of serene twilight, the sort that
follows an especially pink sunset.  She was not wholly clear in her mind about anything, but
she was entirely hopeful about the world and its disposition to grow and move in ever ascending
spirals.  She hated housework as much as any of her followers, although she was seldom allowed
to do anything for herself.  'I'll step in and make your beds, Mrs. Grubb; I know you're tired.'
'I'll sweep the front room, Mrs. Grubb; you give yourself out so, I know you need rest.'  'Let
me cook your supper while you get up strength for your lecture; there are plenty of people
to cook, but there's only one Mrs. Grubb!' These were the tender solicitations she was ever
receiving.

As for theories, she had small choice.  She had looked into almost every device for increasing
the sum of human knowledge and hastening the millennium, and she thought them all more or less
valuable.  Her memory, mercifully, was not a retentive one, therefore she remembered little
of the beliefs she had outgrown; they never left even a deposit in the stretch of wet sand
in which they had written themselves.

She had investigated, or at any rate taught, Delsarte, Physical Culture, Dress-Reform, the
Blue-glass Cure, Scientific Physiognomy, Phrenology, Cheiromancy, Astrology, Vegetarianism,
Edenic Diet, Single Tax, Evolution, Mental Healing, Christian Science, Spiritualism, Theosophy,
and Hypnotism.  All these metamorphoses of thought had Mrs. S. Cora Grubb passed through, and
was not yet a finished butterfly.  Some of the ideas she had left far behind, but she still
believed in them as fragments of truth suitable for feeble growing souls that could not bear
the full light of revelation in one burst.  She held honorary memberships in most of the outgrown
societies, attended annual meetings of others, and kept in touch with all the rest by being
present at their social reunions.

One of her present enthusiasms was her 'Kipling Brothers,' the boys' band enlisted under the
motto, 'I saw a hundred men on the road to Delhi, and they were all my brothers.'  She believed
that there was no salvation for a boy outside of a band.  Banded somehow he must be, then badged,
beribboned, bannered, and bye-lawed.  From the moment a boy's mother had left off her bye-lows,
Mrs. Grubb wanted him put under bye-laws.  She often visited Mistress Mary with the idea that
some time she could interest her in one of her thousand schemes; but this special call was
to see if the older children, whose neat handiwork she had seen and admired, could embroider
mottoes on cardboard to adorn the Kipling room at an approaching festival.  She particularly
wanted 'Look not upon the Wine' done in blood-red upon black, and 'Shun the Filthy Weed' in
smoke-colour on bright green. She had in her hand a card with the points for her annual address
noted upon it, for this sort of work she ordinarily did in the horse- cars.  These ran:

1st.  Value of individuality.  'I saw.'

2nd.  Value of observation.  'I SAW.'

3rd.  Value of numbers.  'I saw a HUNDRED men.'

4th.  Importance of belonging to the male sex.  It was MEN who were seen on the road.

5th.  What and where is Delhi?

6th.  Description of the road thither.

7th.  Every boy has his Delhi.

8th.  Are you 'on the road'?

9th.  The brotherhood of man.

10th.  The Kipling Brothers' Call to Arms.

She intended to run through the heads of this impassioned oration to Mistress Mary, whom she
rather liked; and, in truth, Mary had difficulty in disliking her, though she thoroughly disapproved
of her.  She was so amiable, and apparently so susceptible to teaching, that Mary always fancied
her on the verge of something better.  Her vagaries, her neglects, and what to Mary's mind
were positive inhumanities, seemed in a way unconscious.  'If I can only get into sufficiently
friendly relations,' thought Mary, 'so that I can convince her that her first and highest duty
lies in the direction of the three children, I believe she will have the heroism to do it!'
But in this Mistress Mary's instinct was at fault.  Mrs. Grubb took indeed no real cognisance
of her immediate surroundings, but she would not have wished to see near duties any more clearly.
Neither had she any sane and healthy interest in good works of any kind; she simply had a sort
of philanthropic hysteria, and her most successful speeches were so many spasms.

CHAPTER VII--THE COMET AND THE FIXED STAR

'I don't feel that I can part with Lisa now, just as she's beginning to be a help to me,' argued
Mrs. Grubb, shortly after she had been welcomed and ensconced in a rocking-chair.  'As Madame
Goldmarker says, nobody else in the world would have given her a home these four years, and
a good many wouldn't have had her round the house.'

'That is true,' replied Mary, 'and your husband must have been a very good man from all you
tell me, Mrs. Grubb.'

'Good enough, but totally uninteresting,' said that lady laconically.

'Well, putting aside the question as to whether goodness ought to be totally uninteresting,
you say that Lisa's mother left Mr. Grubb three hundred dollars for her food and clothing,
and that she has been ever since a willing servant, absolutely devoted to your interests.'

'We never put a cent of the three hundred dollars into our own pockets,' explained Mrs. Grubb.
'Mr. Grubb was dreadfully opposed to my doing it, but every penny of it went to freeing our
religious society from debt.  It was a case of the greatest good of the greatest number, and
I didn't flinch.  I thought it was a good deal more important that the Army of Present Perfection
should have a roof over its head than that Lisa Bennett should be fed and clothed; that is,
if both could not be done.'

'I don't know the creed of the Army, but it seems to me your Presently Perfect soldiers would
have been rather uncomfortable under their roof if Lisa Bennett had been naked and starving
outside.'

'Oh, it would never have come to that,' responded Mrs. Grubb easily. 'There is plenty of money
in the world, and it belongs equally to the whole human race.  I don't recognise anybody's
right to have a dollar more than I have; but Mr. Grubb could never accept any belief that had
been held less than a thousand years, and before he died he gave some money to a friend of
his, and told him to pay me ten dollars every month towards Lisa's board.  Untold gold could
never pay for what my pride has suffered in having her, and if she hadn't been so useful I
couldn't have done it,--I don't pretend that I could.  She's an offence to the eye.'

'Not any longer,' said Mary proudly.

'Well, she was up to a few months ago; but she would always do anything for the twins, and
though they are continually getting into mischief she never lets any harm come to them, not
so much as a scratch.  If I had taken a brighter child, she would have been for ever playing
on her own account and thinking of her own pleasure; but if you once get an idea into Lisa's
head of what you expect her to do, she will go on doing it to the end of the world, and wild
horses couldn't keep her from it.'

'It's a pity more of us hadn't that virtue of obedience to a higher law.'

'Well, perhaps it is, and perhaps it isn't; it's a sign of a very weak mind.'

'Or a very strong one,' retorted Mary.

'There are natural leaders and natural followers,' remarked Mrs. Grubb smilingly, as she swayed
to and fro in Mary's rocking-chair. Her smile, like a ballet-dancer's, had no connection with,
nor relation to, the matter of her speech or her state of feeling; it was what a watchmaker
would call a detached movement.  'I can't see,' said she, 'that it is my duty to send Lisa
away to be taught, just when I need her most.  My development is a good deal more important
than hers.'

'Why?'

'Why?  Because I have a vocation and a mission; because, if I should falter or faint by the
wayside, hundreds of women who depend on me for inspiration would fall back into error and
suffer permanent loss and injury.'

'Do you suppose they really would?' asked Mary rather maliciously, anxious if possible to ruffle
the surface of Mrs. Grubb's exasperating placidity.  'Or would they, of course after a long
period of grief-stricken apathy, attach themselves to somebody else's classes?'

'They might,' allowed Mrs. Grubb, in a tone of hurt self-respect; 'though you must know, little
as you've seen of the world, that no woman has just the same revelation as any other, and that
there are some who are born to interpret truth to the multitude.  I can say in all humility
that it has been so with me from a child.  I've always had a burning desire to explore the
secret chambers of Thought, always yearned to understand and explain the universe.'

'I have never tried to explain it,' sighed Mary a little wearily; 'one is so busy trying to
keep one's little corner clean and sweet and pleasant, a helpful place where sad and tired
souls can sit down and rest.'

'Who wants to sit down and rest?  Not I!' exclaimed Mrs. Grubb.  'But then, I'm no criterion,
I have such an active mind.'

'There are just a few passive virtues,' said Mary teasingly.  'We must remember that activity
doesn't always make for good; sometimes it is unrest, disintegration; not growth, Mrs. Grubb,
but fermentation.'

Mrs. Grubb took out a small blank-book and made a note, for she had an ear for any sentence
that might be used in a speech.

'That is true.  "DISTRUST THE ACTIVITY WHICH IS NOT GROWTH, BUT FERMENTATION" that will just
hit some ladies in my classes, and it comes right in with something I am going to say this
evening.  We have a Diet Congress here this week, and there's a good deal of feeling and dispute
between the various branches.  I have two delegates stopping with me, and they haven't spoken
to each other since yesterday morning, nor sat down to eat at the same table.  I shall do all
I can, as the presiding officer, to keep things pleasant at the meetings, but it will be difficult.
You've never been in public life and can't understand it, but you see there are women among
the delegates who've suffered the tyranny of man so long that they will cook anything their
husbands demand; women who believe in eating any kind of food, and hold that the principal
trouble lies in bad cooking; women who will give up meat, but still indulge in all sorts of
cakes, pastries, and kickshaws; and women who are strong on temperance in drink, but who see
no need of temperance in food.  The whole question of diet reform is in an awful state, and
a Congress is the only way to settle it.'

'How do men stand on the diet question?' asked Mary, with a twinkle in her eye.

'They don't stand at all,' answered Mrs. Grubb promptly.  'They sit right still, and some of
them lie down flat, you might say, whenever it's mentioned.  They'll do even more for temperance
than they will for reformed diet, though goodness knows they're fond enough of drinking.  The
Edenites number about sixty-seven in this city, and nine is the largest number of gentlemen
that we've been able to interest.  Those nine are the husbands and sons of the lady members,
and at the next meeting two of them are going to be expelled for backsliding.  I declare, if
I was a man, I'd be ashamed to confess that I was all stomach; but that's what most of them
are.  Not that it's easy work to be an Edenite:  it's impossible to any but a highly spiritual
nature.  I have been on the diet for six months, and nothing but my position as vice-president
of the society, and my desire to crush the body and release the spirit, could have kept me
faithful.  I don't pretend to like it, but that doesn't make me disloyal.  There's nothing
I enjoy better than a good cut of underdone beef, with plenty of dish gravy; I love nice tender
porter- house steaks with mushrooms; I love thick mutton-chops broiled over a hot fire:  but
I can't believe in them, and my conscience won't allow me to eat them.  Do you believe in meat?'

'Certainly.'

'I don't see why you say "certainly."  You would be a good deal better off without it.  You
are filling yourself full of carnal, brutal, murderous passions every time you eat it.  The
people who eat meat are not half so elevated nor half so teachable as the Edenites.'

'The Edenites are possibly too weak and hungry to resist instruction,' said Mary.

'They are neither weak nor hungry,' replied their vice-president, with dignity.  'They eat
milk, and stewed fruit, and all the edible grains nicely boiled.  It stands to reason that
if you can subdue your earthly, devilish, sensual instincts on anything, you can do it on a
diet like that.  You can't fancy an angel or a Mahatma devouring underdone beef.'

'No,' agreed Mistress Mary; 'but for that matter, the spectacle of an angel eating dried-apple
sauce doesn't appeal to my imagination.'

'It's no joking matter,' said Mrs. Grubb, with real tears in her eyes.  'It was my interest
in Theosophy that brought me to the Edenic diet.  I have good and sufficient motives for denying
my appetite, for I've got a certain goal to reach, and I'm in earnest.'

'Then here's my hand, and I respect you for it.  Oh, how I should like a hot mutton-chop at
this moment!--Do forgive me.'

'I forgive you, because I can see you act up to all the light that has been revealed to you.
I don't know as I ought to be proud because I see so much truth.  My classes tell me I get
these marvellous revelations because I'm so open-minded.  Now Mr. Grubb wouldn't and couldn't
bear discussion of any sort.  His soul never grew, for he wouldn't open a clink where a new
idea might creep in. He'd always accompany me to all my meetings (such advantages as that man
had and missed!), and sometimes he'd take the admission tickets; but when the speaking began,
he'd shut the door and stay out in the entry by himself till it was time to wait upon me home.
Do you believe in vaccination?'

'Certainly.'

'Well, it passes my comprehension how you can be so sure of your beliefs.  You'd better come
and hear some of the arguments on the opposite side.  I am the secretary of the Anti-Vaccination
League.' (Mrs. Grubb was especially happy in her anti-societies; negatives seemed to give her
more scope for argument.)  'I say to my classes, "You must not blame those to whom higher truths
do not appeal, for refusing to believe in that which they cannot understand; but you may reprove
them for decrying or ridiculing those laws or facts of nature which they have never investigated
with an unprejudiced mind."  Well, I must be going.  I've sat longer than I meant to, this
room is so peaceful and comfortable.'

'But what about Lisa's future?  We haven't settled that, although we've had a most interesting
and illuminating conversation.'

'Why, I've told you how I feel about her, and you must respect my feeling.  The world can only
grow when each person allows his fellow- man complete liberty of thought and action.  I've
kept the child four years, and now when my good care and feeding, together with the regular
work and early hours I've always prescribed, have begun to show their fruits in her improved
condition, you want she should be put in some institution.  Why, isn't she doing well enough
as she is? I'm sure you've had a wonderful influence over her.'

'Nothing could induce me to lose sight of her entirely,' said Mistress Mary, 'but we feel now
that she is ready to take the next step.  She needs a skilled physician who is master both
of body and mind, as well as a teacher who is capable of following out his principles.  I will
see to all that, if you will only give me the privilege.'

Mrs. Grubb sank down in the rocking-chair in despair.  'Don't I need some consideration as
well as that little imbecile?  Am I, with my ambitions and aspirations, to be for ever hampered
by these three nightmares of children?  Oh, if I could once get an astral body, I would stay
in it, you may be sure!'

'You do not absolutely need Lisa yourself,' argued Mary.  'It is the twins to whom she has
been indispensable.  Provide for them in some way, and she is freed from a responsibility for
which she is not, and never was, fit.  It is a miracle that some tragedy has not come out of
this daily companionship of three such passionate, irresponsible creatures.'

'Some tragedy will come out of it yet,' said Mrs. Grubb gloomily, 'if I am not freed from the
shackles that keep me in daily slavery.  The twins are as likely to go to the gallows as anywhere;
and as for Lisa, she would be a good deal better off dead than alive, as Mrs. Sylvester says.'

'That isn't for us to decide,' said Mistress Mary soberly.  'I might have been careless and
impertinent enough to say it a year ago, but not now.  Lisa has all along been the victim of
cruel circumstances. Wherever she has been sinned against through ignorance, it is possible,
barely possible, that the fault may be atoned for; but any neglect of duty now would be a criminal
offence.  It does not behove us to be too scornful when we remember that the taint (fortunately
a slight one) transmitted to poor little Lisa existed in greater or less degree in Handel and
Moliere, Julius Caesar, Napoleon, Petrarch, and Mohammed.  The world is a good deal richer
for them, certainly.'

Mrs. Grubb elevated her head, the light of interest dawned in her eye, and she whipped her
notebook out of her pocket.

'Is that a fact?' she asked excitedly.

'It is a fact.'

'Is it generally known?'

'It must be known by all who have any interest in the education of defective persons, since
it touches one of the bug-bears which they have to fight.'

'Is there any society in this city devoted to the study of such problems?'

'There is a society which is just on the point of opening an institution for the training of
defective children.'

Mrs. Grubb's face fell, and her hand relaxed its grasp upon the pencil.  (If there was anything
she enjoyed, it was the sensation of being a pioneer in any movement.)  Presently she brightened
again.

'If it is just starting,' she said, 'then it must need more members, and speakers to stir up
the community.  Now, I am calculated, by constant association with a child of this character,
to be of signal service to the cause.  Not many persons have had my chance to observe phenomena.
Just give me a letter to the president,--have they elected officers yet?--where do they meet?--and
tell him I'll call on him and throw all the weight of my influence on his side.  It's wonderful!
Handel, Moliere, Buddha, was it--Buddha?--Caesar, Petrarch, and Wellington,--no, not Wellington.
Never mind, I'll get a list from you to-morrow and look it all up,--it's perfectly marvellous!
And I have one of this great, unhappy, suffering class in my own family, one who may yet be
transformed into an Elizabeth Browning or a Joan of Arc!'

Mistress Mary sighed in her heart.  She learned more of Mrs. Grubb with every interview, and
she knew that her enthusiasms were as discouraging as her apathies.

'How unlucky that I mentioned Napoleon, Caesar, and Mohammed!' she thought.  'I shall be haunted
now by the fear that she will go on a lecturing-tour through the country, and exhibit poor
Lisa as an interesting example.  Mrs. Grubb's mind is like nothing so much as a crazy-quilt.'

CHAPTER VIII--THE YOUNG MINISTER'S PSYCHOLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS

Mrs. Grubb's interest in the education of the defective classes was as short-lived as it was
ardent.  One interview with the president of the society convinced her that he was not a person
to be 'helped' according to her understanding of the term.  She thought him a self- sufficient
gentleman, inflexible in demeanour, and inhospitable to anybody's ideas or anybody's hobbies
but his own.  She resented his praise of Mistress Mary and Rhoda, and regarded it fulsome flattery
when he alluded to their experiment with Marm Lisa as one of the most interesting and valuable
in his whole experience; saying that he hardly knew which to admire and venerate the more--the
genius of the teachers, or the devotion, courage, and docility of the pupil.

In the summer months Lisa had gone to the country with Mistress Mary and Edith, who were determined
never to lose sight of her until the end they sought was actually attained.  There, in the
verdant freshness of that new world, Lisa experienced a strange exaltation of the senses. 
Every wooded path unfolded treasures of leafy bud, blossom, and brier, and of beautiful winged
things that crept and rustled among the grasses.  There was the ever new surprise of the first
wild-flowers, the abounding mystery of the bird's note and the brook's song, the daily greeting
of bees and butterflies, frogs and fishes, field-mice and squirrels; so that the universe,
which in the dead past had been dreary and without meaning, suddenly became warm and friendly,
and she, the alien, felt a sense of kinship with all created things.

Helen had crossed the continent to imbibe the wisdom of the East, and had brought back stores
of knowledge to spend in Lisa's service; but Rhoda's sacrifice was perhaps the most complete,
for Mrs. Grubb having at first absolutely refused to part with Lisa, Rhoda had flung herself
into the breach and taken the twins to her mother's cottage in the mountains.

She came up the broad steps, on a certain appointed day in August, leading her charges into
Mistress Mary's presence.  They were clean, well dressed, and somewhat calm in demeanour.

'You may go into the playground,' she said, after the greetings were over; 'and remember that
there are sharp spikes on the high fence by the pepper-tree.'

'Mary,' she went on impressively, closing the doors and glancing about the room to see if there
were any listeners, 'Mary, those children have been with me eight weeks, and I do--not--like--them.
What are you going to do with me?  Wait, I haven't told you the whole truth,--I dislike them
actively.  As for my mother, she is not committed to any theory about the essential integrity
of infancy, and she positively abhors them.'

'Then they are no more likable in the bosom of the family than they have been here?' asked
Mary, in a tone of disappointment.

'More likable?  They are less so!  Do you see any change in me,--a sort of spiritual effulgence,
a saintly radiance, such as comes after a long spell of persistent virtue?  Because there ought
to be, if my summer has served its purpose.'

'Poor dear rosy little martyr!  Sit down and tell me all about it.'

'Well, we have kept a log, but--'

'"WE?"  What, Rhoda! did you drag your poor mother into the experiment?'

'Mother?  No, she generally locked herself in her room when the twins were indoors, but--well,
of course, I had help of one sort and another with them.  I have held to your plan of discipline
pretty well; at any rate, I haven't administered corporal punishment, although, if I had whipped
them whenever they actually needed it, I should have worn out all the young minister's slippers.'

Mary groaned.  'Then there was another young minister?  It doesn't make any difference, Rhoda,
whether you spend your summers in the woods or by the sea, in the valleys or on the mountains,
there is always a young minister.  Have all the old ones perished off the face of the earth,
pray?  And what do the young ones see in you, you dear unregenerate, that they persist in following
you about threatening my peace of mind and your future career?  Well, go on!'

'Debarred from the use of the persuasive but obsolete slipper,' Rhoda continued evasively,
'I tried milder means of discipline,--solitary confinement for one not very much, you know,--only
seventeen times in eight weeks.  I hope you don't object to that?  Of course, it was in a pleasant
room with southern exposure, good view, and good ventilation, a thermometer, picture-books,
and all that.  It would have worked better if the twins hadn't always taken the furniture to
pieces, and mother is so fussy about anything of that sort.  She finally suggested the winter
bedroom for Atlantic's incarceration, as it has nothing in it but a huge coal-stove enveloped
in a somewhat awe-inspiring cotton sheet.  I put in a comfortable low chair, a checkerboard,
and some books, fixing the time limit at half an hour. By the way, Mary, that's such a pretty
idea of yours to leave the door unlocked, and tell the children to come out of their own accord
whenever they feel at peace with the community.  I tried it,--oh, I always try your pretty
ideas first; but I had scarcely closed the door before Pacific was out of it again, a regenerated
human being according to her own account.  But to return to Atlantic.  I went to him when the
clock struck, only to discover that he had broken in the circles of isinglass round the body
of the coal-stove, removed the ashes with a book, got the dampers out of order, and taken the
doors off the hinges!  I am sure Mrs. Grubb is right to keep them on bread- and-milk and apple-sauce;
a steady diet of beef and mutton would give them a simply unconquerable energy.  Oh, laugh
as you may, I could never have lived through the ordeal if it hadn't been for the young minister!'

'Do you mean that he became interested in the twins?'

'Oh, yes!--very deeply interested.  You have heard me speak of him: it was Mr. Fielding.'

'Why, Rhoda, he was the last summer's minister, the one who preached at the sea-shore.'

'Certainly; but he was only supplying a pulpit there; now he has his own parish.  He is taking
up a course of child-study, and asked me if he was at liberty to use the twins for psychological
observations.  I assented most gratefully, thinking, you know, that he couldn't study them
unless he kept them with him a good deal; but he counted without his host, as you can imagine.
He lives at the hotel until his cottage is finished, and the first thing I knew he had hired
a stout nursemaid as his contribution to the service of humanity.  I think he was really sorry
for me, for I was so confined I could scarcely ever ride, or drive, or play tennis; and besides,
he simply had to have somebody to hold the children while he observed them.  We succeeded better
after the nurse came, and we all had delightful walks and conversations together, just a nice
little family party!  The hotel people called Atlantic the Cyclone, and Pacific the Warrior.
Sometimes strangers took us for the children's parents, and that was embarrassing; not that
I mind being mistaken for a parent, but I decline being credited, or discredited, with the
maternity of those imps!'

'They are altogether new in my experience,' confessed Mary.

'That is just what the young minister said.'

'Will he keep up his psychological investigation during the autumn?' Mary inquired.

'He really has no material there.'

'What will he do, then?--carry it on by correspondence?'

'No, that is always unsatisfactory.  I fancy he will come here occasionally:  it is the most
natural place, and he is especially eager to meet you.'

'Of course!' said Mistress Mary, reciting provokingly:

'"My lyre I tune, my voice I raise,
   But with my numbers mix my sighs,
And whilst I sing Euphelia's praise
   I fix my soul on Chloe's eyes."'

'How delightful,' she added, 'how inspiring it is to see a young man so devoted to science,
particularly to this neglected science!  I shall be charmed to know more of his psychology
and observe his observations.'

'He is extremely clever.'

'I have no doubt of it from what you tell me, both clever and ingenious.'

'And his cottage is lovely; it will be finished and furnished by next summer,--Queen Anne,
you know.'

Now, this was so purely irrelevant that there was a wicked hint of intention about it; and
though Mistress Mary was smiling (and quaking) in the very depths of her heart, she cruelly
led back the conversation into safe educational channels.  'Isn't it curious,' she said, 'that
we should have thought Lisa, not the twins, the impossible problem?  Yet, as I have written
you, her solution is something to which we can look forward with reasonable confidence. It
is scarcely eighteen months, but the work accomplished is almost incredible, even to me, and
I have watched and counted every step.'

'The only explanation must be this,' said Rhoda, 'that her condition was largely the fruit
of neglect and utter lack of comprehension. The state of mind and body in which she came to
us was out of all proportion to the moving cause, when we discovered it.  Her mother thought
she would be an imbecile, the Grubbs treated her as one, and nobody cared to find out what
she really was or could be.'

'Her brain had been writ upon by the "moving finger,"' quoted Mary, 'though the writing was
not graved so deep but that love and science could erase it.  You remember the four lines in
Omar Khayyam?

'It is true.  The new physician is a genius, and physically and outwardly she has changed more
in the last three months than in the preceding year.  She dresses herself neatly now, braids
her own hair, and ties her ribbons prettily.  Edith has kept up her gymnastics, and even taught
her to row and play nine-pins.  For the first time in my life, Rhoda, I can fully understand
a mother's passion for a crippled, or a blind, or a defective child.  I suppose it was only
Lisa's desperate need that drew us to her at first.  We all loved and pitied her, even at the
very height of her affliction; but now she fascinates me.  I know no greater pleasure than
the daily miracle of her growth.  She is to me the sister I never had, the child I never shall
have.  When we think of our success with this experiment, we must try to keep our faith in
human nature, even under the trying ordeal of the twins.'

'My faith in human nature is absolutely intact,' answered Rhoda; 'the trouble is that the Warrior
and the Cyclone are not altogether human. Atlantic is the coldest creature I ever knew,--so
cold that he could stand the Shadrach-Meshech-and Abednego test with impunity; Pacific is hot,--so
hot-tempered that one can hardly touch her without being scorched.  If I had money enough to
conduct an expensive experiment, I would separate them, and educate Pacific at the North Pole,
and Atlantic in the Tropics.'

'If they are not distinctly human, we must allow them a few human virtues at least,' said Mary;
'for example, their loyalty to each other.  Pacific, always at war with the community, seldom
hurts her brother; Atlantic, selfish and grasping with all the world, shares generously with
his sister.  We must remember, too, that Lisa's care has been worse than nothing for them,
notwithstanding its absolute fidelity; and their dependence has been a positive injury to her.
There! she has just come into the playground with Edith.  Will wonders never cease?  Pacific
is embracing her knees, and Atlantic allows himself to be hugged!'

Marm Lisa was indeed beside herself with joy at the meeting.  She clung to the infant rebels,
stroked their hair, admired their aprons, their clean hands, their new boots; and, on being
smartly slapped by Atlantic for putting the elastic of his hat behind his ears, kissed his
hand as if it had offered a caress.  'He's so little,' she said apologetically, looking up
with wet eyes to Edith, who stood near.

CHAPTER IX--MARM LISA'S QUEST

It was not long after this conversation that the twins awoke one morning with a very frenzy
of adventure upon them.  It was accompanied by a violent reaction against all the laws of God
and man, and a desire to devour the tree of knowledge, fruit, limbs, and trunk, no matter at
what cost.

We have no means of knowing whether there was an excess of electricity in the atmosphere, whether
their youthful livers were disordered, or whether the Evil One was personally conducting the
day's exercises; judged by the light of subsequent events, all of these suppositions might
easily have been true.  During the morning they so demeaned themselves that all Mistress Mary's
younger neophytes became apostates to the true faith, and went over in a body to the theory
of the total depravity of unbaptized infants.

In the afternoon they did not appear, nor did Marm Lisa.  This was something that had never
occurred before, save when Pacific had a certain memorable attack of mumps that would have
carried off any child who was fitted for a better world, or one who was especially beloved.

'Do you suppose anything is wrong?' asked Mary nervously.

'Of course not,' said Edith.  'I remember seeing Lisa in the playground at one o'clock, but
my impression is that she was alone, and stayed only a moment.  At any rate, I was very busy
and did not speak to her.  Mrs. Grubb has probably taken the twins to have their hair cut,
or something of that sort.'

'What a ridiculous suggestion!' exclaimed Rhoda.  'You know perfectly well that Mrs. Grubb
would never think of cutting their hair, if it swept the earth!  She may possibly have taken
them to join a band; they must be getting to a proper age for membership.  At any rate, I will
call there and inquire, on my way home, although I can never talk to Mrs. Grubb two minutes
without wanting to shake her.'

Rhoda made her promised visit, but the house was closed and the neighbours knew nothing of
the whereabouts of the children beyond the fact that Mrs. Grubb was seen talking to them as
she went into the yard, a little after twelve o'clock.  Rhoda naturally concluded, therefore,
that Edith's supposition must be correct, and that Mrs. Grubb had for once indulged in a family
excursion.

Such was not the case, however.  After luncheon, Marm Lisa had washed the twins' hands and
faces in the back-yard as usual, and left them for an instant to get a towel from the kitchen.
When she returned, she looked blankly about, for there was no sign of the two dripping faces
and the uplifted streaming hands.  They had a playful habit of hiding from her, knowing that
in no other way could they make her so unhappy; so she stood still for some moments, calling
them, at first sharply, then piteously, but with no result.  She ran to the front gate; it
was closed; the rope-fastening was out of reach, and plainly too complicated even for their
preternatural powers.  She hurried back to the house, and searched every room in a bewildered
sort of fashion, finding nothing.  As she came out again, her eye caught sight of a kitchen
chair in the corner of the yard.  They had climbed the picket fence, then.  Yes; Atlantic,
while availing himself of its unassuming aid, had left a clue in a fragment of his trousers.
She opened the gate, and ran breathlessly along the streets to that Garden of Eden where joy
had always hitherto awaited her.  Some instinct of fear or secrecy led her to go quietly through
all the rooms and search the playground without telling any one of her trouble.  That accomplished
fruitlessly, she fled home again, in the vain hope of finding the children in some accustomed
haunt overlooked in her first search.  She began to be thoroughly alarmed now, and thoroughly
confused.  With twitching hands and nervous shaking of the head, she hurried through the vacant
rooms, growing more and more aimless in her quest.  She climbed on a tall bureau and looked
in a tiny medicine cupboard; then under the benches and behind the charts in the parlour; even
under the kitchen sink, among the pots and pans, and in the stove, where she poked tremulously
among the ashes.  Her newfound wit seemed temporarily to have deserted her, and she was a pitiable
thing as she wandered about, her breath coming in long-drawn sighs, with now and then a half-stifled
sob.

Suddenly she darted into the street again.  Perhaps they had followed their aunt Cora.  Distance
had no place in her terror-stricken heart. She traversed block after block, street after street,
until she reached Pocahontas Hall, a building and locality she knew well.  She crept softly
up the main stairs, and from the landing slipped into the gallery above.  Mrs. Grubb sat in
the centre of the stage, with a glass of water, a bouquet of roses, and a bundle of papers
and tracts on the table by her side.  In the audience were twenty or thirty women and a dozen
men, their laps filled, and their pockets bulging, with propaganda.  They stood at intervals
to ask superfluous or unanswerable questions, upon which Mrs. Grubb would rise and reply, with
cheeks growing pink and pinker, with pleasant smile and gracious manner, and a voice fairly
surcharged with conviction.  Most of the ladies took notes, and a girl with a receding chin
was seated at a small table in front of the platform, making a stenographic report.

All this Marm Lisa saw, but her eyes rested on nothing she longed to see.  Mrs. Grubb's lecture
voice rose and fell melodiously, floating up to her balcony heights in a kind of echo that
held the tone, but not the words.  The voice made her drowsy, for she was already worn out
with emotion, but she roused herself with an effort, and stole down the stairs to wander into
the street again.  Ah, there was an idea!  The coat-shop!  Why had she not thought of it before?

The coat-shop was a sort of clothing manufactory on a small scale, a tall, narrow building
four stories high, where she had often gone with Atlantic and Pacific.  There were sewing-machines
on the ground- floor, the cutters and pressers worked in the middle stories, and at the top
were the finishers.  It was neither an extensive nor an exciting establishment, and its only
fascination lay in the fact that the workwomen screamed with laughter at the twins' conversation,
and after leading them to their utmost length, teasing and goading them into a towering passion,
would stuff them with nuts or dates or cheap sweetmeats.  The coat-shop was two or three miles
from the hall, and it was closing time and quite dark when Lisa arrived.  She came out of the
door after having looked vainly in every room, and sat down dejectedly in the entrance, with
her weary head leaning against the wall.  There was but a moment's respite for her, for the
manager came out of his office, and, stumbling over her in the dusk, took her by the shoulders
and pushed her into the street with an oath.

'Go and sit on your own doorstep, can't you?' he muttered, 'and not make me break my legs over
you!'

She was too spent to run any further.  She dragged her heavy feet along slowly, almost unconsciously,
neither knowing nor caring whither they led her.  Home she could not, dared not go, bearing
that heavy burden of remorse!  Mrs. Grubb would ask for Atlantic and Pacific, and then what
would become of her?  Mr. Grubb would want to give Pacific her milk.  No, Mr. Grubb was dead.
There! she hadn't looked in the perambulator.  No, there wasn't any perambulator.  That was
dead, too, and gone away with Mr. Grubb.  There used to be babies, two babies, in the perambulator.
What had become of them? Were they lost, too?  And the umbrella that she used to hold until
her arm ached, and the poor, pale, weeping mother always lying on a bed,--were they all gone
together?  Her head buzzed with worrying, unrelated thoughts, so that she put up her hands
and held it in place on her shoulders as she shuffled wearily along.  A heavy, dripping mist
began to gather and fall, and she shivered in the dampness, huddling herself together and leaning
against the houses for a shelter.  She sat down on the curb-stone and tried to think, staring
haggardly at the sign on the corner fruit-shop.  In that moment she suddenly forgot the reason
of her search.  She had lost--what?  She could not go home to Eden Place, but why?  Oh yes!
It came to her now:  there was something about a perambulator, but it all seemed vague to her.
Suddenly a lamplighter put his ladder against a post in front of her, and, climbing up nimbly,
lighted the gas-jet inside of the glass frame.  It shone full on a flight of broad steps, a
picture so much a part of her life-dream that she would go up to the very gate of heaven with
its lines burned into her heart and brain.

She crept up and turned the knob of the outer door.  It was unlocked, and she stole into the
inner room, the Paradise, place of joy and sweet content, heart's rest, soul's heaven, love's
own abode.  The very atmosphere soothed her.  She heard the janitress clatter through the halls,
lock the door, and descend the stairs to her own rooms in the basement.  The light from the
street lamps shone in at the two end windows, so that the room was not in utter darkness. 
She would lie down here and die with Mr. Grubb and the babies and the umbrella. Atlantic and
Pacific would be sure to come back; nobody who had ever known it could live without this place.
Miss Mary would find them. She would make everything right.  The mere thought of Mistress Mary
brought a strange peace into poor Lisa's over-wrought, distraught mind.

She opened the closet door.  It was as dainty and neat as Mistress Mary herself, and the mere
sight of it bred order in Lisa's thoughts. On the top of a pile of envelopes lay the sewing-picture
that Atlantic had spoiled that day.  It had been a black morning, and the bit of cardboard
was torn and soiled and bent.  Lisa looked at it with a maternal and a prophetic eye.  She
could see the firm line of Rhoda's lip as she bore down upon the destructive urchin.  She could
almost hear the bright challenging tone as Rhoda would say:  'Now, Atlantic, let us see what
we can do!  Cut off the chewed edges with these scissors, paste these thin pieces of paper
over the torn places, and rub the card with this crust of bread.  A new one? Certainly NOT,
my young friend!'

Lisa took the poor little object in her hand, and, seeing Mistress Mary's white apron, pressed
her cheek against it in a transport of tenderness and hung it over her arm.  Just then she
caught sight of the clay bird's-nest that Pacific had modelled--such a lovely bird's- nest
that it had been kept for the cabinet.  She carried her treasures over to the old-fashioned
lounge where the babies took their occasional nap, put them carefully in a small red chair
close beside it, and then, stretching her weary length on the cushions, she kissed the smooth
folds of the apron, and clasped it in her arms.

Mistress Mary would come soon.  She would come in her cloud of white, and her steel fillet
would gleam and shine when the sunshine fell upon it, and make star-rays and moonbeams and
lightning-flashes; and the tiny points would twinkle and wink and laugh and blink whenever
she turned her head.  She would smile, and everything would suddenly be clear; she would speak,
and the weary buzzing of windmills in the brain would be hushed.  Under her touch the darkness
and heaviness would vanish, and there would be no more night there--no more night.

As these healing visions stole upon Marm Lisa, the torture and the anguish, the long hours
of bewilderment, faded little by little, little by little, till at length a blessed sleep crept
over her eyelids, blotting into a merciful nothingness the terror and the misery of the day.

CHAPTER X--THE TWINS JOIN THE CELESTIALS

Meanwhile, Atlantic and Pacific had been enjoying themselves even unto the verge of delirium.
In the course of their wanderings they had come upon a Chinaman bearing aloft a huge red silken
banner crowned by a badger's tail.  Everything young that had two legs was following him, and
they joined the noble army of followers.  As they went on, other Chinamen with other banners
came from the side-alleys, and all at once the small procession thus formed turned a corner
and came upon the parent body, a sight that fairly stunned them by its Oriental magnificence.
It was the four thousandth anniversary of the birth of Yeong Wo, had the children realised
it (and that may have been the reason that they awoke in a fever of excitement)--Yeong Wo,
statesman, philanthropist, philosopher, and poet; and the great day had been chosen to dedicate
the new temple and install in it a new joss, and to exhibit a monster dragon just arrived from
China.  The joss had been sitting in solemn state in his sanctum sanctorum for a week, while
the priests appeased him hourly with plenteous libations of rice brandy, sacrifices of snow-white
pigeons, and offerings of varnished pork.  Clouds of incense had regaled his expansive mahogany
nostrils, while his ears of ivory inlaid with gold and bronze had been stimulated with the
ceaseless clashing of gongs and wailings of Chinese fiddles.  Such homage and such worship
would have touched a heart of stone, and that of the joss was penetrable sandalwood; so as
the days of preparation wore away the smile on the teakwood lips of the idol certainly became
more propitious.  This was greatly to the satisfaction of the augurs and the high priest; for
a mighty joss is not always in a sunny humour on feast-days, and to parade a sulky god through
the streets is a very depressing ceremony, foretelling to the initiated a season of dire misfortune.
So his godship smiled and shook his plume of peacock feathers benignantly on Yeong Wo's birthday,
and therefore the pageant in which Atlantic and Pacific bore a part was more gorgeous than
anything that ever took place out of the Flowery Kingdom itself.

Fortune smiled upon the naughty creatures at the very outset, for Pacific picked up a stick
of candy in the street, and gave half of it to a pretty Chinese maiden whose name in English
would have been Spring Blossom, and who looked, in any language, like a tropical flower, in
her gown of blue-and-gold-embroidered satin and the sheaf of tiny fans in her glossy black
hair.  Spring Blossom accepted the gift with enthusiasm, since a sweet tooth is not a matter
of nationality, and ran immediately to tell her mother, a childish instinct also of universal
distribution.  She climbed, as nimbly as her queer little shoes would permit, a flight of narrow
steps leading to a balcony; while the twins followed close at her heels, and wedged their way
through a forest of Mongolian legs till they reached the front, where they peeped through the
spaces of the railings with Spring Blossom, Fairy Foot, Dewy Rose, and other Celestial babies,
quite overlooked in the crowd and excitement and jollity.  Such a very riot of confusion there
was, it seemed as if Confucius might have originally spelled his name with an s in the middle;
for every window was black with pigtailed highbinders, cobblers, pork butchers, and pawnbrokers.
The narrow streets and alleys became one seething mass of Asiatic humanity; while the painted
belles came out on their balconies like butterflies, sitting among a wealth of gaudy paper
flowers that looked pale in comparison with the daubs of vermilion on their cheeks and the
rainbow colours of their silken tunics.

At last the pageant had gathered itself together, and came into full view in all its magnificence.
There were pagodas in teakwood inlaid with gold; and resting on ebony poles, and behind them,
on a very tame Rosinante decked with leopard skins and gold bullion fringes, a Chinese maiden
dressed to represent a queen of Celestial mythology. Then came more pagodas, and companies
of standard-bearers in lavender tunics, red sashes, green and orange leggings and slippers;
more and more splendid banners, painted with dragons sprawling in distressed attitudes; litters
containing minor gods and the paraphernalia they were accustomed to need on a journey like
this; more litters bearing Chinese orchestras, gongs going at full blast, fiddles squeaking,
drums rumbling, trumpets shrieking, cymbals clashing,--just the sort of Babel that the twins
adored.

And now came the chariot and throne of the great joss himself, and just behind him a riderless
bay horse, intended for his imperial convenience should he tire of being swayed about on the
shoulders of his twelve bearers, and elect to change his method of conveyance. Behind this
honoured steed came a mammoth rock-cod in a pagoda of his own, and then, heralded by a fusilade
of fire-crackers, the new dragon itself, stretching and wriggling its monster length through
one entire block.  A swarm of men cleared the way for it, gesticulating like madmen in their
zeal to get swimming-room for the sacred monster.  Never before in her brief existence had
Pacific Simonson been afraid of anything, but if she had been in the street, and had so much
as caught the wink of the dragon's eye, or a wave of its consecrated fin, she would have dropped
senseless to the earth; as it was, she turned her back to the procession, and, embracing with
terror-stricken fervour the legs of the Chinaman standing behind her, made up her mind to be
a better girl in the future.  The monster was borne by seventy-four coolies who furnished legs
for each of the seventy-four joints of its body, while another concealed in its head tossed
it wildly about.  Little pigtailed boys shrieked as they looked at its gaping mouth that would
have shamed a man-eating shark, at the huge locomotive headlights that served for its various
sets of eyes, at the horns made of barber poles, and the moustache of twisted hogshead hoops.
Behind this baleful creature came other smaller ones, and more flags, and litters with sacrificial
offerings, and more musicians, till all disappeared in the distance, and the crowd surged in
the direction of the temple.

There was no such good fortune for the twins as an entrance into this holy of holies, for it
held comparatively few besides the dignitaries, aristocrats, and wealthy merchants of the colony;
but there was still ample material for entertainment, and they paid no heed to the going down
of the sun.  Why should they, indeed, when there were fascinating opium dens standing hospitably
open, where they could have the excitement of entrance even if it were followed by immediate
ejectment?  As it grew darker, the scene grew more weird and fairylike, for the scarlet, orange,
and blue lanterns began to gleam one by one in the narrow doorways, and from the shadowy corners
of the rooms behind them.  In every shop were tables laden with Chinese delicacies,--fish,
flesh, fowl, tea, rice, whisky, lichee nuts, preserved limes, ginger, and other sweetmeats;
all of which, when not proffered, could be easily purloined, for there was no spirit of parsimony
or hostility afloat in the air.  In cubby-holes back of the counters, behind the stoves, wherever
they could find room for a table, groups of moon-eyed men began to congregate for their nightly
game of fan-tan, some of the players and onlookers smoking, while others chewed lengths of
peeled sugar-cane.

In the midst of festivities like these the twins would have gone on from bliss to bliss without
consciousness of time or place, had not hunger suddenly descended upon them and sleep begun
to tug at their eyelids, changing in a trice their joy into sorrow and their mirth into mourning.
Not that they were troubled with any doubts, fears, or perplexities.  True, they had wandered
away from Eden Place, and had not the slightest idea of their whereabouts.  If they had been
a couple of babes in a wood, or any two respectable lost children of romance, memories of lullabies
and prayers at mother's knee would have precipitated them at this juncture into floods of tears;
but home to them was simply supper and bed.  The situation did not seem complex to their minds;
the only plan was, of course, to howl, and to do it thoroughly,--stand in a corner of the market-place,
and howl in such a manner that there could be no mistake as to the significance of the proceeding;
when the crowd collected,--for naturally a crowd would collect,--simply demand supper and bed,
no matter what supper nor which bed; eat the first, lie down in the second, and there you are!
If the twins had been older and more experienced, they would have known that people occasionally
do demand the necessities of life without receiving them; but in that case they would also
have known that such a misfortune would never fall upon a couple of lost children who confide
their woes to the public.  There was no preconcerted plan between them, no system.  They acted
without invention, premonition, or reflection.  It was their habit to scream, while holding
the breath as long as possible, whenever the universe was unfriendly, and particularly when
Nature asserted herself in any way; it was a curious fact that they resented the intervention
of Nature and Providence with just as much energy as they did the discipline of their caretakers.
They screamed now, the moment that the entertainment palled and they could not keep their eyes
open without effort; and never had they been more successful in holding their breath and growing
black in the face; indeed, Pacific, in the midst of her performance, said to Atlantic, 'Yours
is purple, how is mine?'

A crowd did gather, inevitably, for the twins' lungs were capable of a body of tone more piercing
than that of a Chinese orchestra, and the wonder is that poor Lisa did not hear them as she
sat shivering on the curbstone, miles away; for it was her name with which they conjured.

The populace amused itself for a short space of time, watching the fine but misdirected zeal
of the performance, and supposing that the parents of the chanting cherubs were within easy
reach.  It became unpleasant after a while, however, and a policeman, inquiring into the matter,
marched the two dirty, weary little protestants off to a station near by,--a march nearly as
difficult and bloody as Sherman's memorable 'march to the sea'; for the children associated
nothing so pleasant as supper and bed with a blue-coated, brass-buttoned person, and resisted
his well-meant advances with might and main, and tooth and nail.

The policeman was at last obliged to confine himself to Atlantic, and called a brother-in-arms
to take charge of Pacific.  He was a man who had achieved distinction in putting down railroad
riots, so he was well calculated for the task, although he was somewhat embarrassed by the
laughter of the bystanders when his comrade called out to him, 'Take your club, Mike, but don't
use firearms unless your life's in danger!'

The station reached, the usual examination took place.  Atlantic never could tell the name
of the street in which he lived, nor the number of the house.  Pacific could, perhaps, but
would not; and it must be said, in apology for her abnormal defiance, that her mental operations
were somewhat confused, owing to copious indulgence in strong tea, ginger, sugar-cane, and
dried fish.  She had not been wisely approached in the first place, and she was in her sulkiest
and most combative humour; in fact, when too urgently pressed for information as to her age,
ancestry, and abiding-place, she told the worthy police-officer to go to a locality for which
he felt utterly unsuited, after a life spent in the exaltation of virtue and the suppression
of vice.  (The vocabulary of the twins was somewhat poverty-stricken in respect to the polite
phrases of society, but in profanity it would have been rich for a parrot or a pirate.)  The
waifs were presently given to the care of the police matron, and her advice, sought later,
was to the effect that the children had better be fed and put to bed, and as little trouble
expended upon them as was consistent with a Christian city government.

'It is possible their parents may call for them in the morning,' she said acidly, 'but I think
it is more than likely that they have been deserted.  I know if they belonged to me they'd
be lost for ever before I tried to find them!' and she rubbed a black-and-blue spot on her
person, which, if exposed, would have betrayed the shape, size, and general ground-plan of
Pacific's boot.

CHAPTER XI--RHODA FREES HER MIND

Morning dawned, and Mistress Mary and Rhoda went up the flight of broad steps rather earlier
than usual,--so early that the janitress, who had been awake half the night with an ailing
baby, was just going in to dust the rooms.

It was she who first caught sight of the old sofa and its occupant, and her exclamation drew
Mary and Rhoda to the spot.  There lay poor Marm Lisa in the dead sleep of exhaustion, her
dress torn and wrinkled, her shoes travel-stained, her hair tangled and matted. Their first
idea was that the dreaded foe might have descended upon her, and that she had had some terrible
seizure with no one near to aid and relieve her.  But the longer they looked, the less they
feared this; her face, though white and tear-stained, was tranquil, her lips only slightly
pale, and her breathing calm and steady.  Mary finally noted the pathetic grouping of little
objects in the red chair, and, touched by this, began to apprehend the significance of her
own white apron close clasped in the child's loyal arms, and fell a-weeping softly on Rhoda's
shoulder.  'She needed me, Rhoda,' she said.  'I do not know for what, but I am sure she needed
me.'

'I see it all,' said Rhoda, administering soft strokes of consolation:  'it is something to
do with those little beasts; yes, I will call them beasts, and if you don't let me, I'll call
them brutes.  They lost themselves yesterday, of course, and dear old Lisa searched for them
all the afternoon and half the night, for aught we know, and then came here to be comforted,
I suppose--the blessed thing!'

'Hush! don't touch her,' Mary whispered, as Rhoda went impetuously down on her knees by the
sofa; 'and we must not talk in this room, for fear of waking her.  Suppose you go at once to
Mrs. Grubb's, dear, and, whatever you learn about the twins there, I shall meanwhile call a
carriage and take Lisa home to my own bed.  The janitress can send Edith to me as soon as she
comes, and I will leave her with Lisa while I run back here to consult with you and Helen.
I shall telegraph for Dr. Thorne, also, to be sure that this sleep is as natural and healing
a thing as it appears to be.'

Mrs. Grubb was surprised, even amused, at Rhoda's exciting piece of news, but she was perfectly
tranquil.

'Well, don't they beat all!' she exclaimed, leaning against the door- frame and taking her
side hair out of waving-pins as she talked. 'No, I haven't seen them since noon yesterday.
I was out to a picnic supper at the Army Headquarters at night, and didn't get home till later
than usual, so I didn't go up to their room.  I thought they were in bed; they always have
been in bed when it was bedtime, ever since they were born.'  Here she removed the last pin,
and put it with the others in the bosom of her dress for safe-keeping.  'This morning, when
they didn't turn up, I thought some of you girls had taken a fancy to keep them overnight;
I didn't worry, supposing that Lisa was with them.'

'Nobody on earth could take a fancy to the twins or keep them an hour longer than necessary,
and you know it, Mrs. Grubb,' said Rhoda, who seldom minced matters; 'and in case no one should
ever have the bad manners to tell you the whole truth, I want to say here and now that you
neglect everything good and sensible and practical,--all the plain, simple duties that stare
you directly in the face,--and waste yourself on matters that are of no earthly use to anybody.
Those children would have been missed last night if you had one drop of mother's blood in your
veins!  You have three helpless children under what you are pleased to call your care' (and
here Rhoda's lip curled so scornfully that Mrs. Grubb was tempted to stab her with a curling-
pin), 'and you went to sleep without knowing to a certainty whether they had had supper or
bed!  I don't believe you are a woman at all-- you are just a vague abstraction; and the only
things you've ever borne or nursed or brooded in your life have been your miserable, bloodless
little clubs and bands and unions!'

Rhoda's eyes flashed summer lightning, her nostrils quivered, her cheeks flamed scarlet, and
Mrs. Grubb sat down suddenly and heavily on the front stairs and gasped for breath.  According
to her own belief, her whole life had been passed in a search for truth, but it is safe to
say she had never before met it in so uncompromising and disagreeable a shape.

'Perhaps when you are quite through with your billingsgate,' she finally said, 'you will take
yourself off my steps before you are ejected.  You! to presume to criticise me!  You, that
are so low in the scale of being, you can no more understand my feelings and motives than a
jellyfish can comprehend a star!  Go back and tell Miss Mary,' she went on majestically, as
she gained confidence and breath, 'that it is her duty and business to find the children, since
they were last seen with her, and unless she proves more trustworthy they will not be allowed
to return to her.  Tell her, too, that when she wishes to communicate with me, she must choose
some other messenger besides you, you impudent, grovelling little earthworm! Get out of my
sight, or you will unfit me for my classes!'

Mrs. Grubb was fairly superb as she launched these thunderbolts of invective; the staircase
her rostrum, her left hand poised impressively on the baluster, and the three snaky strands
of brown hair that had writhed out of the waving-pins hissing Medusa-wise on each side of her bead.

Rhoda was considerably taken aback by the sudden and violent slamming of the door of No. 1
Eden Place, and she felt an unwelcome misgiving as to her wisdom in bringing Mrs. Grubb face
to face with truth.  Her rage had somewhat subsided by the time she reached Mistress Mary's
side, for she had stopped on the way to ask a policeman to telephone the various stations for
news of the lost children, and report at once to her.  'There is one good thing,' she thought:
'wherever they may be, their light cannot be hid any more than that of a city that is set on
a hill.  There will be plenty of traces of their journey, for once seen they are never forgotten.
Nobody but a hero would think of kidnapping them, and nobody but an idiot would expect a ransom
for them!'

'I hope you didn't upbraid Mrs. Grubb,' said Mary, divining from Rhoda's clouded brow that
her interview had not been a pleasant one. 'You know our only peaceful way of rescuing Lisa
from her hold is to make a friend of her, and convert her to our way of thinking.  Was she
much disturbed about the children?'

'Disturbed!' sniffed Rhoda disdainfully.  'Imagine Mrs. Grubb disturbed about anything so trivial
as a lost child!  If it had been a lost amendment, she might have been ruffled!'

'What is she doing about it, and in what direction is she searching?'

'She is doing nothing, and she will do nothing; she has gone to a Theosophy lecture, and we
are to find the twins; and she says it's your fault, anyway, and unless you prove more trustworthy
the seraphs will be removed from your care; and you are not to send me again as a messenger,
if you please, because I am an impudent, grovelling little earthworm!'

'Rhoda!'

'Yes'm!'

'Did she call you that?'

'Yes'm, and a jellyfish besides; in fact, she dragged me through the entire animal kingdom;
but she is a stellar being--she said so.'

'What did you say to her to provoke that, Rhoda?  She is thoroughly illogical and perverse,
but she is very amiable.'

'Yes, when you don't interfere with her.  You should catch her with her hair in waving-pins,
just after she has imbibed apple-sauce!  Oh, I can't remember exactly what I said, for I confess
I was a trifle heated, and at the moment I thought only of freeing my mind.  Let me see:  I
told her she neglected all the practical duties that stared her directly in the face, and squandered
herself on useless fads and vagaries--that's about all.  No-o, now that I come to think of
it, I did say that the children would have been missed and found last night, if she had had
a drop of mother's blood in her veins.'

'That's terse and strong--and tactful,' said Mary; 'anything more?'

'No, I don't think so.  Oh yes! now that I reflect, I said I didn't believe she was a woman
at all.  That seemed to enrage her beyond anything, somehow; and when I explained it, and tried
to modify it by saying I meant that she had never borne or loved or brooded anything in her
life but her nasty little clubs, she was white with anger, and told me I was too low in the
scale of being to understand her.  Good gracious!  I wish she understood herself half as well
as I understand her!'

Mary gave a hysterical laugh.  'I can't pretend you didn't speak the truth, Rhoda, but I am
sadly afraid it was ill advised to wound Mrs. Grubb's vanity.  Do you feel a good deal better?'

'No,' confessed Rhoda penitently.  'I did for fifteen minutes,--yes, nearly half an hour; but
now I feel worse than ever.'

'That is one of the commonest symptoms of freeing one's mind,' observed Mary quietly.

It was scarcely an hour later when Atlantic and Pacific were brought in by an officer, very
dirty and dishevelled, but gay and irresponsible as larks, nonchalant, amiable, and unrepentant.
As Rhoda had prophesied, there had been no difficulty in finding them; and as everybody had
prophesied, once found there had not been a second's delay in delivery.  Moved by fiery hatred
of the police matron, who had illustrated justice more than mercy, and illustrated it with
the back of a hair-brush on their reversed persons; lured also by two popcorn balls, a jumping-jack,
and a tin horse, they accepted the municipal escort with alacrity; and nothing was ever jauntier
than the manner in which Pacific, all smiles and molasses, held up her sticky lips for an expected
salute--an unusual offer which was respectfully declined as a matter of discipline.

Mary longed for Rhoda's young minister in the next half-hour, which she devoted to private
spiritual instruction.  Psychology proved wholly unequal to the task of fathoming the twins,
and she fancied that theology might have been more helpful.  Their idea seemed to be- -if the
rudimentary thing she unearthed from their consciousness could be called an idea--that they
would not mind repenting if they could see anything of which to repent.  Of sin, as sin, they
had no apparent knowledge, either by sight, by hearsay or by actual acquaintance.  They sat
stolidly in their little chairs, eyes roving to the windows, the blackboard, the pictures;
they clubbed together and fished a pin from a crack in the floor during one of Mary's most
thrilling appeals; finally they appeared so bored by the whole proceeding that she felt a certain
sense of embarrassment in the midst of her despair.  She took them home herself at noon, apologised
to the injured Mrs. Grubb for Rhoda's unfortunate remarks, and told that lady, gently but firmly,
that Lisa could not be moved until she was decidedly better.

'She was wandering about the streets searching for the twins from noon till long after dark,
Mrs. Grubb--there can be no doubt of it; and she bears unmistakable signs of having suffered
deeply.  I have called in a physician, and we must all abide by his advice.'

'That's well enough for the present,' agreed Mrs. Grubb reluctantly, 'but I cannot continue
to have my studies broken in upon by these excitements.  I really cannot.  I thought I had
made an arrangement with Madame Goldmarker to relieve me, but she has just served me a most
unladylike and deceitful trick, and the outcome of it will be that I shall have to send Lisa
to the asylum.  I can get her examined by the commissioners some time before Christmas, and
if they decide she's imbecile they'll take her off my hands.  I didn't want to part with her
till the twins got older, but I've just found a possible home for them if I can endure their
actions until New Year's.  Our Army of Present Perfection isn't progressing as it ought to,
and it's going to found a colony down in San Diego County, and advertise for children to bring
up in the faith.  A certain number of men and women have agreed to go and start the thing and
I'm sure my sister, if she was alive would be glad to donate her children to such a splendid
enterprise.  If the commissioners won't take Lisa, she can go to Soul Haven, too--that's the
name of the place;--but no, of course they wouldn't want any but bright children, that would
grow up and spread the light.' (Mary smiled at the thought of the twins engaged in the occupation
of spreading light.)  'I shall not join the community myself, though I believe it's a good
thing; but a very different future is unveiling itself before me' (her tone was full of mystery
here), 'and some time, if I can ever pursue my investigations in peace, you will knock at this
door and I shall have vanished!  But I shall know of your visit, and the very sound of your
footfall will reach my ear, even if I am inhabiting some remote mountain fastness!'

When Lisa awoke that night, she heard the crackling of a wood fire on the hearth; she felt
the touch of soft linen under her aching body, and the pressure of something cool and fragrant
on her forehead.  Her right hand, feebly groping the white counterpane, felt a flower in its
grasp.  Opening her eyes, she saw the firelight dancing on tinted walls, and an angel of deliverance
sitting by her bedside--a dear familiar woman angel, whose fair crowned head rose from a cloud
of white, and whose sweet downward gaze held all of benignant motherhood that God could put
into woman's eyes.

Marm Lisa looked up dumbly and wonderingly at first, but the mind stirred, thought flowed in
upon it, a wave of pain broke over her heart, and she remembered all; for remembrance, alas,
is the price of reason.

'Lost! my twinnies, all lost and gone!' she whispered brokenly, with long, shuddering sobs
between the words.  'I look--look--look; never, never find!'

'No, no, dear,' Mary answered, stroking the lines from her forehead, 'not lost any more; found,
Lisa--do you understand?  They are found, they are safe and well, and nobody blames you; and
you are safe, too, your new self, your best self unharmed, thank God; so go to sleep, little
sister, and dream happy dreams!'

Glad tears rushed from the poor child's eyes, tears of conscious happiness, and the burden
rolled away from her heart now, as yesterday's whirring shuttles in her brain had been hushed
into silence by her long sleep.  She raised her swimming eyes to Mistress Mary's with a look
of unspeakable trust.  'I love you! oh, I love, love, love you!' she whispered, and, holding
the flower close to her breast, she breathed a sigh of sweet content, and sank again into quiet
slumber.

CHAPTER XII--FLOTSAM AND JETSAM

It may be said in justice to Mrs. Grubb that she was more than usually harassed just at this time.

Mrs. Sylvester, her voluble next-door neighbour, who had lifted many sordid cares from her
shoulders, had suddenly become tired of the 'new method of mental healing,' and during a brief
absence of Mrs. Grubb from the city had issued a thousand embossed gilt-edged cards, announcing
herself as the Hand Reader in the following terms

TO THE ELITE LADIES AND GENTLEMEN OF THE CITY!

I take this method of introducing myself to your kind consideration as a Hand Reader of RARE
and GENUINE MERIT; catering merely to the Creme du le Creme of this city.  No others need apply.

Having been educated carefully and refinedly, speaking French fluently, therefore I only wish
to deal with the elite of the bon- ton.

I do not advertise in papers nor at residence. Ladies $1.50.  Gents $2. Yours truly,

MRS. PANSY SYLVESTER, 3 Eden Place near 4th, Lower bell

PS.  Pupil of S. CORA GRUBB.

Inasmuch as Mrs. Sylvester had imbibed all her knowledge from Mrs. Grubb, that prophet and
scholar thought, not unnaturally, that she might have been consulted about the enterprise,
particularly as the cards were of a nature to prejudice the better class of patients, and lower
the social tone of the temple of healing.

As if this were not vexatious enough, her plans were disarranged in another and more important
particular.  Mrs. Sylvester's manicure had set up a small establishment for herself, and admitted
as partner a certain chiropodist named Boone.  The two artists felt that by sharing expenses
they might increase profits, and there was a sleeping thought in both their minds that the
partnership might ripen into marriage if the financial returns of the business were satisfactory.
It was destined, however, to be a failure in both respects; for Dr. Boone looked upon Madame
Goldmarker, the vocal teacher in No. 13 Eden Place, and to look upon her was to love her madly,
since she earned seventy-five dollars a month, while the little manicure could barely eke out
a slender and uncertain twenty. In such crises the heart can be trusted to leap in the right
direction and beat at the proper rate.

Mrs. Grubb would have had small interest in these sordid romances had it not been that Madame
Goldmarker had faithfully promised to look after Lisa and the twins, so that Mrs. Grubb might
be free to hold classes in the adjoining towns.  The little blind god had now overturned all
these well-laid plans, and Mrs. Grubb was for the moment the victim of inexorable circumstances.

Dr. Boone fitted up princely apartments next his office, and Madame Goldmarker Boone celebrated
her nuptials and her desertion of Eden Place by making a formal debut at a concert in Pocahontas
Hall.  The next morning, the neighbourhood that knew them best, and many other neighbourhoods
that knew them not at all, received neat printed circulars thrust under the front door.  Upon
one side of the paper were printed the words and music of 'Home, Sweet Home,' 'as sung by Madame
Goldmarker Boone at her late concert in Pocahontas Hall.'  On the reverse side appeared a picture
of the doctor, a neat cut of a human foot, a schedule of prices, and the alluring promise that
the Madame's vocal pupils would receive treatment at half the regular rates.

Many small disputes and quarrels were consequent upon these business, emotional, and social
convulsions, and each of the parties concerned, from Mrs. Grubb to the chiropodist, consulted
Mistress Mary and solicited her advice and interference.

This seemed a little strange, but Mistress Mary's garden was the sort of place to act as a
magnet to reformers, eccentrics, professional philanthropists, and cranks.  She never quite
understood the reason, and for that matter nobody else did, unless it were simply that the
place was a trifle out of the common, and she herself a person full of ideas, and eminently
sympathetic with those of other people. Anybody could 'drop in,' and as a consequence everybody
did-- grandmothers, mothers with babes in arms, teachers, ministers, photographers, travellers,
and journalists.  A Russian gentleman who had escaped from Siberia was a frequent visitor.
He wanted to marry Edith and open a boarding-house for Russian exiles, and was perfectly confident
of making her happy, as he spoke seven languages and had been a good husband to two Russian
ladies now deceased. 

We can not find the etymology of COMINT, but look the other names that we statement with the prefix
taga.

Tagabawa is the name given to the mestizo means Bagobos, Manobo and tagakaolos that by Montano,
are scattered on both sides of the gulf of Davao (Mindanao) near Son River. Bawa means "below
the bottom", referring no doubt to river because those who live upriver from the same region
are called taga-Kaol being the meaning of ka-olo, "part towards the
head, or the origin of the river."

In Mindanao, known also the tagabaloy, a name which may be a variant of tagabeli and tagabulu,
probably originated from the name of Laguna Bulu-an, but here we
would enter in the realm of hypothesis, because we lack (and I speak
personally for me), news topographic and linguists firm enough to
talk about things in Mindanao.

We know that in the language of many of those tribes in the Bagobos,
for example, taga prefix has the same meaning as in Tagalog and wider
still, because there is significance of man who possesses or has this
or that object, preceded by the prefix.

On the island of Paragua, Palawan or live on the coast Moors who came from Jolo and Mindanao
and within some indigenous idolaters, considered Aboriginal struggle with the sea and who call
themselves Tagbanuas. Banu, the voice of Polynesian origin (fenua, "land") means in most of
the Visayan languages ​​"land, country and population also." Clearly Tagbanúas is understood that
means "man of the country" or in other words, "Indians." On the island of Panay was formerly called
and also tagubanua tagolabon banuanon and a god who, they said, lived in the fields and woods.
We should note that in this name see linguists two procedures: the
first is used as the Tagalog, using the affix taga, and the second
form with the suffix non Bikol has the same meaning.

       

* * * * *

Prefix I.

Almost all compounds with the kennel name I belong to most hill tribes Northern Luzon are: Ibalibon,
Ibilaw, Ifugaw, Igorots (Igolot) Ilongot, Isinay, Iraya, Italon,
Itawe.

Ilokano é Ibanag that inhabit the plains, the Ibalon in South Luzon and The Idan in Paragua.

To
find their etymologies will resort to the language spoken by the kagayanes, the Ilokano and gaddanes
that are most important to that region.

The prefix I in Ibanag, a language spoken by the indigenous civilizations that inhabited the regions
Call Cagayan and Isabela, has the same meaning as in Tagalog taga. Says P. Splendor Cave in grammar
Ibanag that 'prefixed to the names of provinces, kingdoms and towns, a patrician names: eg
Ilal-loc, Lal-loc man, I Spain, a man of Spain. "

Ibanag the same name, means "inhabitant of Banaga," which is the name of the river called Grande
de Cagayan. Originally called Ibanag to the inhabitants of the shores of that Aparry river
from which population is nearby the sea, to the region called disseminate,
and more properly from Aparri to Takalawa, a district of Lalo, to
Gataran.

Based on this principle, let us see the etymology of the other names mentioned, noting that,
as we know them today in its Spanish form, we begin by deprive them of the foreign elements that appear
in your build, to consider only an indigenous form.

The italones (italon) lived in the ancient forests that extend to the northeast tip of Pampanga,
being now in the mountains of Nueva Vizcaya and Principe. Language Gadda, heel means "mountain"
in what follows that italon means "mountain." Comes in support of this interpretation of Itaú supply
faucets, strictly itaw depriving them of the termination indicating plural is Castilian, which
is the name of some infidels living in the plains adjacent to the above. In Gadda, voice taw
means "sowing."

Iday, said Blumentritt, which is the name of a dialect of Negritos of Cagayan, however, is
but a variant called Iraya with a tribe of savages, apparently mixed the Negritos and Malays,
who live south of the Kalataganes on the western side of the mountain range Palawan. Daya,
Raya or Saya means "East" and "South" in several languages N. region of Luzon, but in this
case, refers to E. because, although we know that they are to S.
of kalataganes is not the topographical relationship to these giving
them the name but their situation with respect to the Itetapanes.

Here are some Montagnards living in the O. of Isabela de Luzon, west of the Iday and the name
says so, because in Ibanag, Telapan Tatalapan and means the 'West'. The Katalanganes are the
same men who Iraya speak the language these and its name comes from the river on whose banks they
inhabit, name which, in turn, is derived from Talang, a pine species in those sites grows in
abundance.

Commonly called Igorots the savages who inhabit the mountains of Luzon and even other islands, but
in the ancient chronicles Filipino known only to that name Igolot or rather, in true Indian form,
the infidels living in Benguet and nearby Mount Sto. Thomas. Now understood to also appoint the
bloodthirsty savages North of Luzon, but the German ethnographer Hans Meyer and then Dr. Schadenberg,
say should only be so called infidels who inhabit Benguet and Lepanto. The fact is that Tinguian
same as the voice Igorot in the Philippines is used as synonymous
with "savage mountain."

This name means the same as Tinguian 'quiet' in Tagalog root Golota, who composes, means "mountain
range" and though this voice is not the only dictionary Ibanag that form there, you can not say
why that was not known in that language, as known in ancient tinguished voice in Tagalog. It's
called a dialect spoken inibaloy by the Igorots and this voice, in Ilocano, simply means "language
of foreigners."

The so-called infidels Isinays are about living in the western part of the Nueva Vizcaya also known
by the name of Ituyes by province formerly called the county Ituy they inhabit. Its etymology
does not seem very clear: sina, in Ilocano means "segregation separation of persons' voice that
I find acceptable as a radical of the name of tribe when you consider that one of them is called
Ilongot longot formed a word that in Ilocano means "meeting, assembly, aggregation of people."

These
same Ilongots, customs and bloodthirsty savages who inhabit the regions
bordering the provinces of Nueva Vizcaya, Isabela and Principe, are
also called ibilaos, (Indigenous form is ibilaw), whose etymology,
try as I have done, is for me complete darkness.

The italones that we mentioned before, are of the same tribe race: at least Dominican missionaries
say the peoples italones New High Ecija, belong to the ibilaos and these are also known by the
name of Ilongot.

Another large tribe of Malay race who lived in the mountains of Nueva Vizcaya and Isabela, is Ifugaw
call that appears to be one of the most ancient of Luzon, whose etymology
is explained the Ibanag where we see that iafugw means "island."

Today, all of that race, forming groups called silipanes, quianganes, Mayoyao and bungianes
(names topographic) have been re-concentrated to form the villages and towns of the command
of Qiang.

Is known to yogades (yogad) or to a montañeces gaddañes currently living on the slopes of the Cordillera
Central, the western boundary of the province of Isabela, from the left bank of the Magat River,
river end of the Mercedes, to the jurisdiction Christian peoples Itawes.

The etymology of both names gives us Ibanag language resembles both Gadda, resulting Gadd and
yogad that have the same meaning and origin, only the first is the name of second place and the tribe.
Both radical derived from gad ugad whose oldest form, there also in Ibanag and means "sowing high."
This root, followed by the suffix an, means "Instead of sowing high"
as we saw payaw meant "low sowing or irrigation."

The inhabitants of Gadda, called today so this place name, met in the old by personal names,
which is formed with the prefix yogad i know the meaning of which and the radical equal to gad
ugad we have examined.

Have failed my research on the etymology of other names such as some suppose ILOKO Influenced
by the analogy, derived from ilog 'dweller river, "without noting
that the radical referred to ends with g, and examined by voice k:
i also the word ilog, river, not as in ILOKO, a prefix, but an integral
part radical.

I can not say anything about Ibalon, the old name that was given to the people of Camarines.

Ilamut,
Igorot tribe that resides in the mountains located between Nueva Vizcaya and Benguet, radical
seems formed lamut Gadda, "mixture", meaning perhaps mestizo is etymology
only probable.

Iday is variable yraya already examined.

       Ilan, Illanes, lanos, wool, malanao are names given to certain people
pirates the coast of Mindanao.

Are different forms of composition of wool or lanun name radical
geographical part of that island.

* * * * *

Ma Prefix

In almost all Philippine languages ​​contraction May or ma or me is a prefix meaning 'Have,
possess. " With him are adjectives.

Putian, white radical, it is maputi, "that is white ", ie white tamis matamís of having or has sweetness,"
sweet. "

There is thus an infinite number of names that have been applied after the inhabitants of Instead,
as Maguindanaw, Malanaw Mamanuas, &. &.

Maguindanaw is the indigenous name of the island of Mindanao or rather, only part of it. Its
inhabitants are called the same way. Continued Danaw, water and lagoon, and applied this name
to this region around the great lake of Danaw.

For the Moors called Illanes, Ilan Malanaw are also referred to, has the same derivation that
Maguindanaw: lanaw, danaw variant, and the voice Illan, strictly
speaking Ilan has the same i affix origin, used more in the languages
​​of the north of the archipelago.

The mamanuas are some infidels who inhabit the Surigao peninsula and the shores of Lake of Mainit
(Mindanao). Fr Jaime Planas Jesuit calls them "black natives of Mindanao" view identical to that
of the Jesuit PJB Heras confirmed by the French ethnographer Mr.
Montano.

The etymology comes to corroborate this view, showing that the name of those black boys Banu
is derived from land, country; mamanua "inhabitants of the country" with a phonetic transformation
of b in m.

A mountain tribe of infidels in the interior of Mindanao, whose district is not known to me accuracy,
or mananapes mananap called in Spanish form. Language of Bagobos, mananap means "beast, animal"
thus explains the concept of these neighbors have those in the same island called Manobo, Bagobo
voice that means "man."

These Manobo are Malay and inhabit the Agusan River Basin from Moncayo to Butuan: also found
in other sites on the island mainly at Cape San Agustin in east coast of Davao and the island of
Sarangani Tumanao or the East. Also is named to the other idolatrous infidels in Mindanao, and
is easy to understand that this term embraces distant tribes to be so widespread and attending
to what it really means.

The Jesuit Father Pastells talks about mangu called infidels living in or mangulangan the proximity
of Cateel (Mindanao) and the upper river Salug. Its name means "men or inhabitants of the jungle.
"

       

A faithless people inside the island of Mindoro are called Manguianes.

In Tagalog, Bicol and Visayan, Manguier means "savage, wild, black infidels", so that the use of
this word is common to a great number of Filipinos, but, however, has only been applied to certain
inhabitants of Mindoro. Originally, no doubt, the name was given only to the that today carry
on that island, but its use in three Philippine languages ​​shows
that ngian radical in all these languages ​​have a sense now forgotten.

Still exists in Pampanga this radical and means "old", so that we
can deduce that is name mangia applied to men considered old settlers
and as such pushed into by modern invaders in their own language were
called "old."

As it turned out later that newcomers were or were more civilized than the vanquished pushed
into or to the mountains, consider these as feral or wild and appeal made by former extension of this
new meaning. So it is with the voice Tagbanúas, whose etymology we have clarified, "Natural country",
that being the name of infidel Rangers today means "savages Paragua "simply because the idea
of ​​'wild' replaces the old meaning voice that was lost with many others.

* * * * *

Ka affix and suffix W

It is common to almost all Philippine languages ​​form adjectives
and nouns with the procedure prefixed to the root of the prefix ka
and postpone an.

Names regularly and compounds are referring to place and these have been applied after its inhabitants.
This is true Cagayan, Kalagan, Kalibugan, Katalangan, Katubagan and many others.

Other ways.

Just as we have seen the names applied indiscriminately Tinguian Igorot
and the Infidels that inhabit the mountains, so we found in northern
Luzon as usually the name Kalinga applied to the mountain people of
that region, we read in the writings of the friars report them with
the voice of the Calinguismo.

Some tribes are given to each other and the name of Kalinga The reason is simple: in almost all
those dialects SIGIF "enemy", and as the main occupation of these savages is a constant struggle
of one tribe to another is clear that all called with the same voice:
"enemy", Kalinga.

Non suffix used in Bicol and Visayan as taga also in Tagalog, and so we called buquidnon to a Malay
race infidels who inhabit the eastern tip of the district of Misamis and the Spanish call wild
is really the translation of that name filipino lead. Farmers are being called in Visayan banuahanon
Banu, "land, country."

The Mindanao tirurays call themselves etew rootor, "people upstairs"

(the river), etew dawa 'people down, "the plain, the slopes of the rivers, etew dogot," seafarer
" the coast and etew tuduk, the Highlanders.

The lack of vocabulary of all Filipino dialects I can fruitfully follow full etymological study of the
names of races or tribes, but with this we see that all have the same or identical training.

In Cagayan, live in the nearby mountains and Tubang Naksiping a peaceful infidels called ARIPO.
Removing the final s, which is Spanish plural, is aripa that means Ibanag "Slave."

Researching the etymology of ita, Aeta or tie, names that are in various
Philippine languages the so-called Negroes, has taken the dream to
many ethnographic been busy these interesting island.

A missionary priest said the voice meant "up at the top" and referring to the room chosen by the
blacks on the heights of the mountains.

No say today that this explanation is not founded, but also remember
that others explain their etymology itam warning that means "black
color" in Malay, and as the blacks have right to a name with this
meaning, it appears that no objection to this etymology am what it
means and I so it's worth, the same as the other.

The bold or their crossbred living Porak, Tarlac, Mabalacat, Angeles
and Kapas, receive Baluga name, voice in Pampanga means "mestizo."

Typographical
errors, the ignorance of some writers and other similar cases have
swelled the list of names of tribes in the Philippines, creating new
difficulties to explain its etymology. What matters is not to differentiate
the names of tribes that are not based on reason identity of language:
the groups characterized by the use of the same dialect must be known
by one name and form distinctive ethnographic studies after a base
as strong as the anthropological measurable, it is necessary to form
vocabularies of their languages ​​and establish its mechanism or is
your grammar.

Works by the same author

Contribution l'etude du Genou
the Périarthrite (séreuse bourse affections of the patte d'oie) .--
Paris, 1886.

The Sanskrit in the Tagalog language. Paris, 1887.

Contribution
to the study of ancient Filipino alphabet.  The boy
was a feeble, frail, ill-nourished, dirty young urchin, who fell asleep as soon as his head
touched her arm.  His child-nurse, having made him comfortable, gave a sigh of relief, and
looked up and down the car with a radiant smile of content.  Presto, change!  All the railroad
magnates and clerks had been watching her over their newspapers, and in one instant she had
captured the car.  I saw tears in many eyes, and might have seen more had not my own been full.
There was apparently no reason for the gay, winsome, enchanting smile that curved the red mouth,
brought two dimples into the brown cheeks, and sunny gleams into two dark eyes.  True, she
was riding instead of walking, and her charge was sleeping instead of waking and wailing; but
these surely were trifling matters on which to base such rare content.  Yet there it was shining
in her face as she met a dozen pairs of eyes, and saw in each of them love for her sweet motherly
little self, and love for the "eternal womanly" of which she was the visible expression.  There
was a general exodus at Brett Street, and every man furtively slipped a piece of silver into
the child's lap as he left the car; each, I think, trying to hide his action from the others.

'It is of threads such as these that I weave the fabric of my daily happiness,--a happiness
that my friends never seem able to comprehend; the blindest of them pity me, indeed, but I
consider myself like Mary of old, "blessed among women."'

Another day.--'God means all sorts of things when he sends men and women into the world.  That
he means marriage, and that it is the chiefest good, I have no doubt, but it is the love forces
in it that make it so.  I may, perhaps, reach my highest point of development without marriage,
but I can never do it unless I truly and deeply love somebody or something.  I am not sure,
but it seems to me God intends me for other people's children, not for my own.  My heart is
so entirely in my work that I fancy I have none left for a possible husband.  If ever a man
comes who is strong enough and determined enough to sweep things aside and make a place for
himself willy- nilly, I shall ask him to come in and rest; but that seems very unlikely.  What
man have I ever seen who would help me to be the woman my work helps me to be?  Of course there
are such, but the Lord keeps them safely away from my humble notice, lest I should die of love
or be guilty of hero-worship.

'Men are so dull, for the most part!  They are often tender and often loyal, but they seldom
put any spiritual leaven into their tenderness, and their loyalty is apt to be rather unimaginative.
Heigho!  I wish we could make lovers as the book-writers do, by rolling the virtues and graces
of two or three men into one!  I'd almost like to be a man in this decade, a young, strong
man, for there are such splendid giants to slay!  To be sure, a woman can always buckle on
the sword, and that is rather a delightful avocation, after all; but somehow there are comparatively
few men nowadays who care greatly to wear swords or have them buckled on. There is no inspiration
in trying to buckle on the sword of a man who never saw one, and who uses it wrong end foremost,
and falls down on it, and entangles his legs in it, and scratches his lady's hand with it whenever
he kisses her!  And therefore, these things, for aught I see, being unalterably so, I will
take children's love, woman's love, and man's friendship; man's friendship, which, if it is
not life's poetry, is credible prose, says George Meredith,--"a land of low undulations, instead
of Alps, beyond the terrors and deceptions." That will fill to overflowing my life, already
so full, and in time I shall grow from everybody's Mistress Mary into everybody's Mother Mary,
and that will be the end of me in my present state of being.  I am happy, yes, I am blessedly
happy in this prospect, and yet--'

Another day.--'My beloved work!  How beautiful it is!  Toniella has not brought little Nino
this week.  She says he is ill, but that he sits every day in the orchard, singing our songs
and modelling birds from the lump of clay we sent him.  When I heard that phrase "in the orchard,"
I felt a curious sensation, for I know they live in a tenement house; but I said nothing, and
went to visit them.

'The orchard is a few plants in pots and pans on a projecting window- sill!

'My heart went down on its knees when I saw it.  The divine spark is in those children; it
will be a moving power, helping them to struggle out of their present environment into a wider,
sunnier one-- the one of the real orchards.  How fresh, how full of possibilities, is the world
to the people who can keep the child heart, and above all to the people who are able to see
orchards in window-boxes!'

Another day.--'Lisa's daily lesson is just finished.  It was in arithmetic, and I should have
lost patience had it not been for her musical achievements this morning.  Edith played the
airs of twenty or thirty games, and without a word of help from us she associated the right
memory with each, and illustrated it with pantomime.  In some cases, she invented gestures
of her own that showed deeper intuition than ours; and when, last of all, the air of the Carrier
Doves was played, a vision of our Solitary must have come before her mind.  Her lip trembling,
she held an imaginary letter in her fingers, and, brushing back the hair from her forehead
(his very gesture!), she passed her hand across her eyes, laid the make-believe note in Rhoda's
apron, and slipped out of the door without a word.

"'Mr. Man!  Mr. Man!  It is Mr. Man when he couldn't read his letter!" cried the children.
"Why doesn't he come to see us any more, Miss Rhoda?"

'"He is doing some work for Miss Mary, I think," answered Rhoda, with a teasing look at me.

'Lisa came back just then, and rubbed her cheek against my arm.  "I went to the corner," she
whispered, "but he wasn't there; he is never there now!"

'It was the remembrance of this astonishing morning that gave me courage in the later lesson.
She seems to have no idea of numbers-- there will be great difficulty there,--but she begins
to read well, and the marvel of it is that she has various talents!  She is weak, uneducated;
many things are either latent or altogether missing in her as yet, and I do not know how many
of them will appear, nor how long a process it will be; but her mind is full of compensations,
and that is the last thing I expected.  It is only with infinite struggle that she LEARNS anything,
though she is capable of struggle, and that is a good deal to say; but she has besides a precious
heritage of instincts and insights, hitherto unsuspected and never drawn upon. It is precisely
as if there had been a bundle of possibilities folded away somewhere in her brain, but hidden
by an intervening veil, or crushed by some alien weight.  We seem to have drawn away that curtain
or lifted that weight, and the faculties so long obscured are stretching themselves and growing
with their new freedom.  It reminds me of the weak, stunted grass-blades under a stone.  I
am always lifting it and rolling it away, sentimentally trying to give the struggling shoots
a chance. Through these procedures theological
D. Miguel evangelical morality instilled among the souls entrusted to their care.

Were not you like the latest in worship. Looked down on the clerics who sought introducing them
and took care of the dress and grooming. Tolerated them because they knew they were supported
by the bishop and the higher clergy of the diocese, but laughed at them at all times in a manner
rude, irritating, and I used them a few tricks malignant spoil any of those mystic revelry that
put more effort. We tried, for example, to hold a communion general girls with orchestral accompaniment.
The day was marked, D. Miguel sent the church with a gang of carpenters who were placed to
fix the platform with horrendous hammer, preventing concerted hear voices and instruments of
music. Other sometimes required the assiduous penitents D. Narciso-examining Christian doctrine
or While the singing in church banned after a month of rehearsals, or withdrawing from the altar
cloths that they had embroidered aplanchado, or threw in some chapel where they had assume its
real, etc., etc. These acts of despotism earned the enmity habíanle of the Gallic clergy and
female. A D. Miguel gave a farthing for such animosity. The enjoyment of his life was not loved or admired,
but do all the time and chance their will. Furthermore, it could have all the defects they want their
enemies, but nobody ever knew shadow bias towards weaker sex. Positively despised women, believed
that none was able to say or do anything with common sense. In his manly character seemed embodied
the Roman spirit, which denied women the power to govern itself never.

Neither is believed to D. Miguel was shown not obedient to his superiors. The bishop had trouble
an immense understanding with him. If you sent an order, without giving it cures archived compliance,
if I turned a visit, it would get in bed pretending to be sick to see him. Concluded by ignore
him and let him go with it. Peñascosa did not confess but half a dozen veterans of the civil
war. Other parishioners were split between chaplains assigned to the parish for four-fifths
of the women relied on burdens of their weaknesses to the irresistible D. Narciso. D. Miguel
felt no despondency for this preference. And yet, the small number of his penitents was assured
that confessor prudent, discreet and delicate questions.

Finished reading the Gospel and could see the satisfaction of looking around with persistence Lorito
movements. Why was this rogue so distracted looking at the rapt gallery in hearing the melodies of
the organ, if not for two seconds that he had seen getting into his pocket half a pound of
wax at least? Pastor for the soul of thoughts crossed death and destruction. Had the strength, however,
to hold back. The Mass continued. The priest novel elevated the Sacred Host with trembling hands, amid
a buzz of enthusiasm and worship. The court, by releasing more guttural tremolo records, contributed
mightily to do most solemn and moving the descent of the Son of God into the hands of man.
Gil felt shudder under the impression his body. Ineffable joy rose from the bottom of his chest and
squeezed her gently throat. That bounty, infinite, that his God made him, and with such longing had
expected, stirred up every fiber of his heart. His eyes were veiled by the tears, and to bend
the knee, before raising the cup of passion, was some seconds to rise and about to fall unconscious.
  Rhoda says that if she has an opportunity to talk freely with
them, they will inevitably jump at the conclusion that Lisa has brought HER for examination,
as she is so much the more irrational of the two!  Rhoda facetiously imagines a scene in which
a reverend member of the body takes Lisa aside and says solemnly, "My dear child, you have
been wise beyond your years in bringing us your guardian, and we cannot allow her to be at
large another day, lest she becomes suddenly violent."

'Of late I have noticed that she has gradually dropped one club and society after another,
concentrating her attention more and more upon Theosophy.  Every strange weed and sucker that
can grow anywhere flourishes in the soil of her mind, and if a germ of truth or common- sense
does chance to exist in any absurd theory, it is choked by the time it has lain there among
the underbrush for a little space; so that when she begins her harvesting (which is always
a long while before anything is ripe), one can never tell precisely what sort of crop was planted.

'It seems that the Theosophists are considering the establishment of a colony of Mahatmas at
Mojave, on the summit of the Tehachapi Mountains.  Their present habitat is the Himalayas,
but there is no reason why we should not encourage them to settle in this country. The Tehachapis
would give as complete retirement as the Himalayas, while the spiritual advantages to be derived
from an infusion of Mahatmas into our population are self-evident.  "Think, my sisters," Mrs.
Grubb would say, "think, that our mountain ranges may some time be peopled by omniscient beings
thousands of years old and still growing!"  Up to this last aberration I have had some hope
of Grubb o' Dreams.  I thought it a good sign, her giving up so many societies and meetings.
The house is not any tidier, but at least she stays in it occasionally.  In the privacy of
my own mind I have been ascribing this slight reformation to the most ordinary cause,--namely,
a Particular Man.  It would never have occurred to me in her case had not Edith received confidential
advices from Mrs. Sylvester.

'"We're going to lose her, I feel it!" said Mrs. Sylvester.  "I feel it, and she alludes to
it herself.  There ain't but two ways of her classes losing her, death and marriage; and as
she looks too healthy to die, it must be the other one.  She's never accepted any special attentions
till about a month ago, when the Improved Order of Red Men held their Great Council here. 
You see she used to be Worthy Wenonah of Pocahontas Lodge years ago, when my husband was Great
Keeper of the Wampum, but she hasn't attended regularly; a woman is so handicapped, when it
comes to any kind of public work, by her home and her children.--I do hope I shall live long
enough to see all those kind of harassing duties performed in public, co-operative institutions.--She
went to the Council to keep me company, mostly, but the very first evening I could see that
William Burkhardt, of Bald Eagle No. 62, was struck with her; she lights up splendidly, Mrs.
Grubb does.  He stayed with her every chance he got during the week:  but I didn't see her
give him any encouragement, and I should never have thought of it again if she hadn't come
home late from one of the Council Fires at the Wigwam.  I was just shutting my bedroom blinds.
I tried not to listen, for I despise eavesdropping, of all things, but I couldn't help hearing
her say, "No, Mr. Burkhardt, you are only a Junior Sagamore, and I am ambitious.  When you
are a Great Sachem, it will be time enough to consider the matter."'

'Mrs. Sylvester, Edith, and I agreed that this was most significant, but we may have been mistaken,
according to her latest development. The "passing away" so feelingly alluded to by Mrs. Sylvester
is to be of a different sort.  She has spoken mysteriously to me before of her reasons for
denying herself luxuries; of the goal she expected to reach through rigid denial of the body
and training of the spirit; of her longing to come less in contact with the foul magnetism
of the common herd, so detrimental to her growth; but she formally announced to me in strict
confidence to-day her ambition to be a Mahatma.  Of course she has been so many things that
there are comparatively few left; still, say whatever we like, she has the spirit of all the
Argonauts, that woman!  She has been an Initiate for some time, and considers herself quite
ready for the next step, which is to be a Chela.  It is unnecessary to state that she climbs
the ladder of evolution much faster than the ordinary Theosophist, who is somewhat slow in
his movements, and often deals in centuries, or even aeons.

'I did not know that there were female Mahatmas, reasoning unconsciously from the fact that
an Adept is supposed to hold his peace for many years before he can even contemplate the possibility
of being a Mahatma.  (The idea of Grubb o' Dreams holding her peace is too absurd for argument.)
There are many grades of Adepts, it seems, ranging from the "topmost" Mahatmas down.  The highest
of all, the Nirmanakayas, are self-conscious without the body, travelling hither and thither
with but one object, that of helping humanity.  As we descend the scale, we find Adepts (and
a few second-class Mahatmas) living in the body, for the wheel of Karma has not entirely revolved
for them; but they have a key to their "prison" (that is what Mrs. Grubb calls her nice, pretty
body!), and can emerge from it at pleasure.  That is, any really capable and energetic Adept
can project his soul from its prison to any place that he pleases, with the rapidity of thought.
I may have my personal doubts as to the possibilities of this gymnastic feat, but Mrs. Grubb's
intellectual somersaults have been of such thoroughness and frequency that I am sure, if anybody
can perform the gyration, she can!  Meantime, there are decades of retirement, meditation,
and preparation necessary, and she can endure nothing of that sort in this present incarnation,
so the parting does not seem imminent!

'She came to consult me about Soul Haven for the twins.  I don't think it a wholly bad plan.
The country is better for them than the city; we can manage occasional news of their welfare;
it will tide to get over the brief interval of time needed by Mrs. Grubb for growing into a
Chela; and in any event, they are sure to run away from the Haven as soon as they become at
all conscious of their souls, a moment which I think will be considerably delayed.

'Mrs. Grubb will not yield Lisa until she is certain that the Soul Haven colonists will accept
the twins without a caretaker; but unless the matter is quietly settled by the new year I shall
find some heroic means of changing her mind.  I have considered the matter earnestly for many
months without knowing precisely how to find sufficient money for the undertaking.  My own
income can be stretched to cover her maintenance, but it is not sufficient to give her the
proper sort of education.  She is beyond my powers now, and perhaps-- nay, of a certainty,
if her health continue to improve--five years of skilful teaching will make her--what it will
make her no one can prophesy, but it is sure to be something worth working for.  No doubt I
can get the money by a public appeal, and if it were for a dozen children instead of one I
would willingly do it, as indeed I have done it many times in the past.

'That was a beautiful thought of Pastor Von Bodelschwingh, of the Colony of Mercy in Germany.
"Mr. Man" told me about him in one of the very few long talks we had together.  He had a home
for adults and children of ailing mind and body, and when he wanted a new house for the little
ones, and there was no money to build or equip it, he asked every parent in Germany for a thank-offering
to the Lord of one penny for each well child.  Within a short fortnight four hundred thousand
pennies flowed in--four hundred thousand thank-offerings for children strong and well.  The
good pastor's wish was realised, and his Baby Castle an accomplished fact.  Not only did the
four hundred thousand pennies come, but the appeal for them stimulated a new sense of gratitude
among all the parents who responded, so that there came pretty, touching messages from all
sides, such as:  "Four pennies for four living children; for a child in heaven, two."  "Six
pennies for a happy home."  "One penny for the child we never had."  "Five pennies for a good
wife."

'Ah! never, surely, was a Baby Castle framed of such lovely timber as this!  It seems as if
heaven's sweet air must play about the towers, and heaven's sunshine stream in at every window,
of a house built from turret to foundation-stone of such royal material.  The Castle might
look like other castles, but every enchanted brick and stone and block of wood, every grain
of mortar, every bit of glass and marble, unlike all others of its kind, would be transformed
by the thought it represented and thrilled with the message it bore.

'Such an appeal I could make for my whole great family, but somehow this seems almost a private
matter, and I am sensitive about giving it publicity.  My love and hope for Lisa are so great,
I cannot bear to describe her "case," nor paint her unhappy childhood in the hues it deserves,
for the sake of gaining sympathy and aid.  I may have to do it, but would I were the little
Croesus of a day!  Still, Christmas is coming, and who knows?

"Everywhere the Feast o' the Babe, Joy upon earth, peace and good-will to men! We are baptized."

Merry Christmas is coming.  Everybody's hand-grasp is warmer because of it, though of course
it is the children whose merriment rings truest.

'There are just one or two things, grown up as I am, that I should like to find in the toe
of my stocking on Christmas morning; only they are impalpable things that could neither be
put in nor taken out of real stockings.

'Old as we are, we are most of us mere children in this, that we go on hoping that next Christmas
all the delicious happenings we have missed in other Christmases may descend upon us by the
old and reliable chimney-route!  A Santa Claus that had any bowels of compassion would rush
down the narrowest and sootiest chimney in the world to give me my simple wishes.  It isn't
as if I were petitioning nightly for a grand house, a yacht, a four-in-hand, a diamond necklace,
and a particular man for a husband; but I don't see that modesty finds any special favour with
St. Nick.  Now and then I harbour a rascally suspicion that he is an indolent, time-serving
person, who slips down the widest, cleanest chimneys to the people who clamour the loudest;
but this abominable cynicism melts into thin air the moment that I look at his jolly visage
on the cover of a picture-book.  Dear, fat, rosy, radiant Being!  Surely he is incapable of
any but the highest motives!  I am twenty-eight years old, but age shall never make any difference
in the number or extent of my absurdities.  I am going to write a letter and send it up the
chimney!  It never used to fail in the long-ago; but ah! then there were two dear, faithful
go-betweens to interpret my childish messages of longing to Santa Claus, and jog his memory
at the critical time!'

CHAPTER XV--'THE FEAST O' THE BABE'

It was sure to be a green Christmas in that sunny land, but not the sort of 'green Yule' that
makes the 'fat kirkyard.'  If the New Englanders who had been transplanted to that shore of
the Pacific ever longed for a bracing snowstorm, for frost pictures on the window-panes, for
the breath of a crystal air blown over ice-fields-- an air that nipped the ears, but sent the
blood coursing through the veins, and made the turkey and cranberry sauce worth eating,--the
happy children felt no lack, and basked contentedly in the soft December sunshine.  Still further
south there were mothers who sighed even more for the sound of merry sleigh-bells, the snapping
of logs on the hearth, the cosy snugness of a fire-lit room made all the snugger by the fierce
wind without:  that, if you like, was a place to hang a row of little red and brown woollen
stockings!  And when the fortunate children on the eastern side of the Rockies, tired of resisting
the Sand Man, had snuggled under the great down comforters and dropped off to sleep, they dreamed,
of course, of the proper Christmas things--of the tiny feet of reindeer pattering over the
frozen crust, the tinkle of silver bells on their collars, the real Santa Claus with icicles
in his beard, with red cheeks, and a cold nose, and a powder of snow on his bearskin coat,
and with big fur mittens never too clumsy to take the toys from his pack.

Here the air blew across orange groves and came laden with the sweetness of opening buds; here,
if it were a sunny Christmas Day, as well it might be, the children came in to dinner tired
with playing in the garden:  but the same sort of joyous cries that rent the air three thousand
miles away at sight of hot plum-pudding woke the echoes here because of fresh strawberries
and loquats; and although, in the minds of the elders, who had been born in snowdrifts and
bred upon icicles, this union of balmy air, singing birds, and fragrant bloom might strike
a false note at Christmastide, it brought nothing but joy to the children.  After all, if it
were not for old associations' sake, it would seem that one might fitly celebrate the birthday
of the Christ-child under sunshine as warm and skies of the same blue as those that sheltered
the heavenly Babe in old Judea.

During the late days of October and the early days of November the long drought of summer had
been broken, and it had rained steadily, copiously, refreshingly.  Since then there had been
day after day of brilliant, cloudless sunshine, and the moist earth, warmed gratefully through
to the marrow, stirred and trembled and pushed forth myriads of tender shoots from the seeds
that were hidden in its bosom; and the tender shoots themselves looked up to the sun, and,
with their roots nestled in sweet, fragrant beds of richness, thought only of growing tall
and green, dreamed only of the time when pink pimpernels would bloom between their waving blades,
and when tribes of laughing children would come to ramble over the hillsides.  The streets
of the city were full of the fragrance of violets, for the flower-vendors had great baskets
of them over their arms, and every corner tempted the passers-by with the big odorous purple
bunches that offered a royal gift of sweetness for every penny invested.

Atlantic and Pacific Simonson had previously known little, and Marm Lisa less, of Christmas-time,
but the whole month of December in Mistress Mary's garden was a continual feast of the new-born
Babe. There was an almost oppressive atmosphere of secrecy abroad.  Each family of children,
working in the retirement of its particular corner, would shriek, 'Oh, don't come!' and hide
small objects under pinafores and tables when Mary, Rhoda, Edith, or Helen appeared.  The neophyte
in charge was always in the attitude of a surprised hen, extending her great apron to its utmost
area as a screen to hide these wonderful preparations.  Edith's group was slaving over Helen's
gift, Rhoda's over Edith's, and so on, while all the groups had some marvellous bit of co-operative
work in hand for Mistress Mary.  At the afternoon council, the neophytes were obliged to labour
conscientiously on presents destined for themselves, rubbing off stains, disentangling knots,
joining threads, filling up wrong holes and punching right ones, surreptitiously getting the
offerings of love into a condition where the energetic infants could work on them again.  It
was somewhat difficult to glow and pale with surprise when they received these well-known and
well-worn trophies of skill from the tree at the proper time, but they managed to achieve it.

Never at any other season was there such a scrubbing of paws, and in spite of the most devoted
sacrifices to the Moloch of cleanliness the excited little hands grew first moist, and then
grimy, nobody knew how.  'It must leak out of the inside of me,' wailed Bobby Baxter when sent
to the pump for the third time one morning; but he went more or less cheerfully, for his was
the splendid honour of weaving a frame for Lisa's picture, and he was not the man to grudge
an inch or two of skin if thereby he might gain a glorious immortality.

The principal conversation during this festival time consisted of phrases like:  'I know what
you're goin' to have, Miss Edith, but I won't tell!'  'Miss Mary, Sally 'most told Miss Rhoda
what she was makin' for her.'  'Miss Helen, Pat Higgins went right up to Miss Edith and asked
her to help him mend the leg of his clay frog, and it's his own Christmas present to her!'

The children could not for the life of them play birds, or butterflies, or carpenter, or scissors-grinder,
for they wanted to shout the live-long day -

'Christmas bells are ringing sweet, We too the happy day must greet';

or -

   'Under the holly, now,
   Sing and be jolly, now,
Christmas has come and the children are glad';

or -

   'Hurrah for Santa Claus!
Long may he live at his castle in Somewhere-land!'

There was much whispering and discussion about evergreens and garlands and wreaths that were
soon to come, and much serious planning with regard to something to be made for mother, father,
sister, brother, and the baby; something, too, now and then, for a grandpapa in Sweden, a grandmamma
in Scotland, a Norwegian uncle, an Irish aunt, and an Italian cousin; but there was never by
chance any cogitation as to what the little workers themselves might get.  In the happier homes
among them, there was doubtless the usual legitimate speculation as to doll or drum, but here
in this enchanted spot, this materialised Altruria, the talk was all of giving, when the Wonderful
Tree bloomed in their midst--the Wonderful Tree they sang about every morning, with the sweet voice

   'telling its branches among
Of shepherd's watch and of angel's song,
Of lovely Babe in manger low, -
The beautiful story of long ago,
When a radiant star threw its beams so wide
To herald the earliest Christmastide.'

The Tree was coming--Mistress Mary said so; and bless my heart, you might possibly meddle with
the revolution of the earth around the sun, or induce some weak-minded planet to go the wrong
way, but you would be helpless to reverse one of Mistress Mary's promises!  They were as fixed
and as unchangeable as the laws of the Medes and Persians, and there was a record of their
fulfilment indelibly written in the memories of two hundred small personages--personages in
whom adult caprice and flexibility of conduct had bred a tendency to suspicion.

The Tree, therefore, had been coming for a fortnight, and on the 22nd it came!  Neither did
it come alone, for it was accompanied by a forest of holly and mistletoe, and ropes of evergreen,
and wreaths and garlands of laurel, and green stars by the dozen.  And in a great box, at present
hidden from the children, were heaps of candles, silver and crystal baubles, powdered snowflakes,
glass icicles, gilded nuts, parti-coloured spheres, cornucopias full of goodies, and, above
all, two wonderful Christmas angels, and a snow-white dove!

Neither tree, nor garlands, nor box contained any hint of the donor, to the great disappointment
of the neophytes.  Rhoda had an idea, for Cupid had 'clapped her i' the shoulder,' and her
intuitions were preternaturally keen just now.  Mary almost knew, though she had never been
in love in her life, and her faculties were working only in their every-day fashion; but she
was not in the least surprised when she drew a letter from under the white dove's wing.  Seeing
that it was addressed to her, she waited until everybody had gone, and sat under the pepper-tree
in the deserted playground, where she might read it in solitude.

'DEAR MISTRESS MARY,' it said, 'do you care to hear of my life?

"Pas Ewig-Weibliche Zieht uns hinan,"

and I am growing olives.  The sun is hot, and it has not rained for many a long week, it seems
to me, but the dew of your influence falls ever sweet and fresh on the dust of my daily task.

'Enclosed please find the wherewithal for Lisa's next step higher. As she needs more it will
come.  I give it for sheer gratitude, as the good folk gave their pennies to Pastor Von Bodelschwingh.
Why am I grateful?  For your existence, to be sure!  I had lived my life haunted by the feeling
that there was such a woman, and finally the mysterious wind of destiny blew me to her, "as
the tempest brings the rose-tree to the pollard willow."

'Do not be troubled about me, little mother-of-many!  There was once upon a time a common mallow
by the roadside, and being touched by Mohammed's garment as he passed, it was changed at once
into a geranium; and best of all, it remained a geranium for ever after.

'YOUR SOLITARY.'

CHAPTER XVI--CLEANSING FIRES

It was the afternoon of the day before Christmas, and all the little people had gone home,
leaving the room vacant for the decking of the Wonderful Tree.  Edith, Helen, and others were
perched on step- ladders, festooning garlands and wreaths from window to window and post to
post.  Mary and Rhoda were hanging burdens of joy among the green branches of the tree.

The room began to look more and more lovely as the evergreen stars were hung by scarlet ribbons
in each of the twelve windows, and the picture-frames were crowned with holly branches. 

As powerfully clear linguistic studies anthropological issues, I believed that would be useful
to information to establish the etymology of the names today apply to the different tribes,
with the name of races, Philippines.

Political divisions of the islands almost always respond to divisions based on language, so that,
beginning with taking charge of the names that characterize the provinces when these are applied
to groups that speak the same language, found on the island of Luzon the following: Tagalog, Pampanga,
Bicol, Pangasinan, sambal, Ilocano, Ibanag or Cagayan. After see that within each of these provinces
have different tribes, many with language carrying different, for
this reason or another unknown, a different name.

Visayas applies to three dialects spoken in Cebu, Iloilo and Negros:
Calamian or Cuyo is also pool name linguist and Mindanao to get see
that not a territorial division the character is already in Luzon.

Many tribes have by name, a geographical name: another reason is discovered topographic, or local
customs, or other relationship with neighboring tribes. Sometimes names are simply applied to local
residents, other times the source the name does not appear so clear
and to discover its etymology is to start by decomposing to discover
the root as discussed below.

For convenience we divide the names that we shall study in the following
groupings:

Compounds with the prefix Taga.

       "With the prefix I. "With the prefix A. "With the prefix Ma "With
the Non prefix.

"With the prefix and suffix Ka W 'in other ways.

* * * * *

TAGA prefix.

This prefix, to join names, it means "native of it, natural." Used alone, has no significance
whatsoever and we find the following names to form clusters Ethnic: TAGALOG, TAGABALOY, TAGABAWA,
TAGABULU, TAGABELI, TAGACAOLO, TAGABANUA or Tagbanúas, etc. etc.

The
meaning of such code is provided for us Polynesian languages: in Samoa
is called taga-ta man, in Tahiti, losing the g we find the word taa-ta.

It is therefore undoubtedly that taga, prefix with no real meaning today as isolated voice, originally
meant "man." Now, consider the etymology of the other voices to which we find attached, to name
tribes more or less important.

One of the major linguistic groups in the Philippines is composed of the Tagalog with which name
are called the inhabitants of the provinces of Manila, Bulak, Nueva Ecija, Bataan, part of Tarlac,
Laguna, Tayabas and the District of Morong, with about 1,250,000 individuals. There is no
doubt that in the old, all these men were not called Tagalog, this was named a fraction Manila
lived and, by extension, be applied by the Spanish to all those who spoke the same language.
This percentage was the one who lived in Tondo, Manila and Basin peoples Pasig, therefore, some
ancient authors, by etymology of how it sounds, explained the formation
of the word as a contraction of taga-ilog "inhabitant the river, "but
this is not possible, because if so there would be missing the point
t, and even if this had happened, it could not have been as pronounced
tagalog in the second but where required tagalog the phonetics of
the word with similar origins.

Some authors have assumed that this name was a composite of alog which means "ford" where Tagalog
mean "men or people of the ford." Nor are we satisfied with the explanation, and more logical
to accept that from the root alog, in Pangasinan, means "land low water is full of rain ", precisely
because the indigenous people to the arrival of Tagalog called the Spanish in the Manila region,
inhabited, as now, land and low-lying.

Probably in those days were called alog those lands, and the name, outdated and obsolete in today's
Tagalog, has been only in Pangasinan.

The Indians who inhabited the highlands as today called taga-Bukit
(bukit 'land high) and the mountains taga-bundok (bundok, "the mountain").

In the lagoon itself, the inhabitants its banks were known by the name of taga-Doong, so people
also called of the plain. Doong means' pier, place, or cuddle shore
where boats. "

While in Manila called taga-bundok to the Highlanders,
in Laguna knew they by Tinguianes.  Men were scarce at that hour in that
locality, but there was a good contingent of small shopkeepers and gentlemen-of-steady-leisure,
who were on the roof pouring-water over wet blankets and comforters and carpets.  A crazy-looking
woman in the fourth story kept dipping a child's handkerchief in and out of a bowl of water
and wrapping it about a tomato-can with a rosebush planted in it.  Another, very much intoxicated,
leaned from her window, and, regarding the whole matter as an agreeable entertainment, called
down humorous remarks and ribald jokes to the oblivious audience.  There was an improvised
hook-and-ladder company pouring water where it was least needed, and a zealous self-appointed
commanding officer who did nothing but shout contradictory orders; but as nobody obeyed them,
and every man did just as he was inclined, it did not make any substantial difference in the
result.

Mary and Rhoda made their way through the mass of interested spectators, not so many here as
on the cooler side of the street. Where was Lisa?  That was the first, indeed the only question.
How had she come there?  Where had she gone?  There was a Babel of confusion, but nothing like
the uproar that would have been heard had not part of the district's population fled to the
more interesting fire, and had not the whole thing been so quiet and so lightning- quick in
its progress.  The whole scene now burst upon their view.  A few harassed policemen had stretched
ropes across the street, and were trying to keep back the rebellious ones in the crowd who
ever and anon would struggle under the line and have to be beaten back by force.

As Mary and Rhoda approached, a group on the outskirts cried out, 'Here she is!  'Tain't more
'n a minute sence they went to tell her! Here she is now!'

The expected fire-brigade could hardly be called 'she,' Mary thought, as she glanced over her
shoulder.  She could see no special reason for any interest in her own movements.  She took
advantage of the parting of the crowd, however, and as she made her way she heard, as in a
waking dream, disjointed sentences that had no meaning at first, but being pieced together
grew finally into an awful whole.

'Why didn't the factory girls bring 'em out?  Didn't know they was there?'

'Say, one of 'em was saved, warn't it?'

'Which one of 'em did she get down before the roof caught?'

'No, 'tain't no such thing; the manager's across the bay; she gave the alarm herself.'

'She didn't know they was in there; I bet yer they'd run and hid, and she was hunting 'em when
she seen the smoke.'

'Yes, she did; she dropped the girl twin out of the second-story window into Abe Isaac's arms,
but she didn't know the boy was in the building till just now, and they can't hardly hold her.'

'She's foolish, anyhow, ain't she?'

Mary staggered beyond Rhoda to the front of the crowd.

'Let me under the rope!' she cried, with a mother's very wail in her tone--'let me under the
rope, for God's sake!  They're my children!'

At this moment she heard a stentorian voice call to some one, 'Wait a minute till the firemen
get here, and they'll go for him!  Come back, girl, d-n you! you shan't go!'

'Wait?  No!  NOT wait!' cried Lisa, tearing herself dexterously from the policeman's clutches,
and dashing like a whirlwind up the tottering stairway before any one else could gather presence
of mind to seize and detain her.

Pacific was safe on the pavement, but she had only a moment before been flung from those flaming
windows, and her terrified shrieks rent the air.  The crowd gave a long-drawn groan, and mothers
turned their eyes away and shivered.  Nobody followed Marm Lisa up that flaming path of death
and duty:  it was no use flinging a good life after a worthless one.

'Fool! crazy fool!' people ejaculated, with tears of reverence in their eyes.

'Darling, splendid fool!' cried Mary.  'Fool worth all the wise ones among us!'

'He that loseth his life for My sake shall find it!' said a pious Methodist cobbler with a
patched boot under his arm.

In the eternity of waiting that was numbered really but in seconds, a burly policeman beckoned
four men and gave them a big old-fashioned counterpane that some one had offered, telling them
to stand ready for whatever might happen.

'Come closer, boys,' said one of them, wetting his hat in a tub of water; 'if we take a little
scorchin' doin' this now, we may git it cooler in the next world!'

'Amen!  Trust the Lord!' said the cobbler; and just then Marm Lisa appeared at one of the top
windows with a child in her arms.  No one else could have recognised Atlantic in the smoke,
but Rhoda and Mary knew the round cropped head and the familiar blue gingham apron.

Lisa stood in the empty window-frame, a trembling figure on a background of flame.  Her post
was not at the moment in absolute danger.  There was hope yet, though to the onlookers there
seemed none.

'Throw him!'  'Drop him!'  'Le' go of him!' shouted the crowd.

'Hold your jaws, and let me do the talking!' roared the policeman. 'Stop your noise, if you
don't want two dead children on your consciences!  Keep back, you brutes, keep back o' the
rope, or I'll club you!'

It was not so much the officer's threats as simple, honest awe that caused a sudden hush to
fall.  There were whisperings, sighs, tears, murmurings, but all so subdued that it seemed
like silence in the midst of the fierce crackling of the flames.

'Drop him!  We'll ketch him in the quilt!' called the policeman, standing as near as he dared.

Lisa looked shudderingly at the desperate means of salvation so far below, and, turning her
face away as much as she could, unclasped her arms despairingly, and Atlantic came swooping
down from their shelter, down, down into the counterpane; stunned, stifled, choked by smoke,
but uninjured, as Lisa knew by the cheers that greeted his safe descent.

A tongue of fire curled round the corner of the building and ran up to the roof towards another
that was licking its way along the top of the window.

'Jump now yourself!' called the policeman, while two more men silently joined the four holding
the corners of the quilt.  Every eye was fixed on the motionless figure of Marm Lisa, who had
drawn her shawl over her head, as if just conscious of nearer heat.

The wind changed, and blew the smoke away from her figure.  The men on the roof stopped work,
not caring for the moment whether they saved the tenement house or not, since a human life
was hanging in the balance.  The intoxicated woman threw a beer-bottle into the street, and
her son ran up from the crowd and locked her safely in her kitchen at the back of the house.

'Jump this minute, or you're a dead girl!' shouted the officer, hoarse with emotion.  'God
A'mighty, she ain't goin' to jump--she's terror-struck!  She'll burn right there before our
eyes, when we could climb up and drag her down if we had a long enough ladder!'

'They've found another ladder and are tying two together,' somebody said.

'The fire company's comin'!  I hear 'em!' cried somebody else.

'They'll be too late,' moaned Rhoda, 'too late!  Oh, Mary, make her jump!'

Lisa had felt no fear while she darted through smoke and over charred floors in pursuit of
Atlantic--no fear, nothing but joy when she dragged him out from under bench and climbed to
the window-sill with him,--but now that he was saved she seemed paralysed.  So still she was,
she might have been a carven statue save for the fluttering of the garments about her thin
childish legs.  The distance to the ground looked impassable, and she could not collect her
thoughts for the hissing of the flame as it ate up the floor in the room behind her.  Horrible
as it was, she thought it would be easier to let it steal behind her and wrap her in its burning
embrace than to drop from these dizzy heights down through that terrible distance, to hear
her own bones snap as she touched the quilt, and to see her own blood staining the ground.

'She'll burn, sure,' said a man.  'Well, she's half-witted--that's one comfort!'

Mary started as if she were stung, and forced her way still nearer to the window; hoping to
gain a position where she could be more plainly seen.

Everybody thought something was going to happen.  Mary had dozens of friends and more acquaintances
in that motley assemblage, and they somehow felt that there were dramatic possibilities in
the situation. Unless she could think of something, Marm Lisa's last chance was gone:  that
was the sentiment of the crowd, and Mary agreed in it.

Her cape had long since dropped from her shoulders, her hat was trampled under foot, the fair
coil of hair had loosened and was falling on her neck, and the steel fillet blazed in the firelight.
She stepped to the quilt and made a despairing movement to attract Lisa's attention. Against a pretext so inveterate do not know what remedy may be. The art of producing gold, Crisopeya
has been completely lost, and we have no more art or science that put our hope, to see if we removed
the hook, that political economy.

Mary chanced all on that one electrical moment of recognition, and, with a mien half commanding
and half appealing, she stretched out both her arms and called again, while the crowd held
its breath:

'Come to me, darling!  Jump, little sister! NOW!'

Not one second did Marm Lisa hesitate.  She would have sprung into the fire at that dear mandate,
and, closing her eyes, she leaped into the air as the roof above her head fell in with a crash. XVI .-- VOYAGE OF SWITZERLAND .-- The city of Saint-Gall, - its history, its institutions,
economic elements .-- The city of Saint-Gall, - its situation, its monuments and curiosities .--
The canton of Thurgau canton of Aargau .-- .-- The Solera and Basel-Land.


In that sudden plunge from window to earth Marm Lisa seemed to die consciously.  The grey world,
the sad world, vanished, 'and the immortal light, all young and joyful, million-orbed, million-
coloured,' beamed on her darkness.  She kept on falling, falling, falling, till she reached
the abysmal depths of space--then she knew no more:  and Mary, though prone on the earth, kept
falling, falling, falling with her into so deep a swoon that she woke only to find herself
on a friendly bed, with Rhoda and Lisa herself, weeping over her.

At five o'clock, Mrs. Grubb, forcibly torn from a meeting and acquainted with the afternoon's
proceedings, hurried into a lower room in the tenement house, where Mary, Rhoda, and the three
children were gathered for a time.  There were still a hundred people in the street, but they
showed their respect by keeping four or five feet away from the windows.

The twins sat on a sofa, more quiet than anything save death itself. They had been rocked to
the very centre of their being, and looked like nothing so much as a couple of faded photographs
of themselves. IX .-- THE canton of Fribourg Berne Berne .-- .-- journeyman artists and Topography .-- of Canton
.-- History of the Republic Bern, - its people and institutions .-- Productions, industry and
most remarkable objects .-- The city of Bern - their schools and
places of interest.

Mary turned towards Lisa's bed.  'Mrs. Grubb,' she said, looking straight into that lady's
clear, shallow eyes, 'I think Lisa has earned her freedom, and the right to ask a Christmas
gift of you. Stand on the other side of the cot and put your hand in mine.  I ask you for the
last time, will you give this unfinished, imperfect life into my keeping, if I promise to be
faithful to it unto the end, whatever it may be?'

I suppose that every human creature, be he ever so paltry, has his hour of effulgence, an hour
when the mortal veil grows thin and the divine image stands revealed, endowing him, for a brief
space at least with a kind of awful beauty and majesty.

It was Mistress Mary's hour. He
returned a few years. His character was not softened brave long walk to Shot in the mountains.
Peñascosa parishioners had in it much like a shepherd a captain of robbers. Nobody raised
the rooster in the population.  At that moment her eye was fitted with a new lens,
through which the road to the summit of the Tehachapi Mountains and Mahatmadom suddenly looked
long, weary, and profitless, and by means of which the twins were transferred from the comfortable
middle distance they had previously occupied to the immediate foreground of duty.  The lens
might slip, but while it was in place she saw as clearly as another woman.

'Will you?' repeated Mistress Mary, wondering at her silence.

Mrs. Grubb gave one last glance at the still reproach of Lisa's face, and one more at the twins,
who seemed to loom more formidably each time she regarded them; then drawing a deep breath
she said, 'Yes, I will; I WILL, no matter what happens; but it isn't enough to give up, and
you needn't suppose I think it is.'  And taking a passive twin by either hand, she passed out
of the door into the crowded thoroughfare, and disappeared in the narrow streets that led to
Eden Place.

