This was a fix. Neither old one seemed to know what to do, but as they trampled vainly round
the edge, the sandy bank caved in, and, running down, formed a long slope, up which the young
one ran and rejoined his brothers under the broad veranda of their mother's tail.

Brownie was a bright little mother, of small stature, but keen of wit and sense, and was, night
and day, alert to care for her darling chicks. How proudly she stepped and clucked through
the arching woods with her dainty brood behind her; how she strained her little brown tail
almost to a half-circle to give them a broader shade, and never flinched at sight of any foe,
but held ready to fight or fly, whichever seemed the best for her little ones.

Before the chicks could fly they had a meeting with old Cuddy; though it was June, he was out
with his gun. Up the third ravine he went, and Tike, his dog, ranging ahead, came so dangerously
near the Brownie brood that Redruff ran to meet him, and by the old but never-failing trick
led him on a foolish chase away back down the valley of the Don.

But Cuddy, as it chanced, came right along, straight for the brood, and Brownie, giving the
signal to the children, 'Krrr, krrr' (Hide, hide), ran to lead the man away just as her mate
had led the dog. Full of a mother's devoted love, and skilled in the learning of the woods
she ran in silence till quite near, then sprang with a roar of wings right in his face, and
tumbling on the leaves she shammed a lameness that for a moment deceived the poacher. But when
she dragged one wing and whined about his feet, then slowly crawled away, he knew just what
it meant--that it was all a trick to lead him from her brood, and he struck at her a savage
blow; but little Brownie was quick, she avoided the blow and limped behind a sapling, there
to beat herself upon the leaves again in sore distress, and seem so lame that Cuddy made another
try to strike her down with a stick. But she moved in time to balk him, and bravely, steadfast
still to lead him from her helpless little ones, she flung herself before him and beat her
gentle breast upon the ground, and moaned as though begging for mercy. And Cuddy, failing again
to strike her, raised his gun, and firing charge enough to kill a bear, he blew poor brave,
devoted Brownie into quivering, bloody rags.

This gunner brute knew the young must be hiding near, so looked about to find them. But no
one moved or peeped. He saw not one, but as he tramped about with heedless, hateful feet, he
crossed and crossed again their hiding-ground, and more than one of the silent little sufferers
he trampled to death, and neither knew nor cared.

Redruff had taken the yellow brute away off down-stream, and now returned to where he left
his mate. The murderer had gone, taking her remains, to be thrown to the dog. Redruff sought
about and found the bloody spot with feathers, Brownie's feathers, scattered around, and now
he knew the meaning of that shot.

Who can tell what his horror and his mourning were? The outward signs were few, some minutes
dumbly gazing at the place with downcast, draggled look, and then a change at the thought of
their helpless brood. Back to the hiding-place he went, and called the well-known 'Kreet, kreet.'
Did every grave give up its little inmate at the magic word? No, barely more than half; six
little balls of down unveiled their lustrous eyes, and, rising, ran to meet him, but four feathered
little bodies had found their graves indeed. Redruff called again and again, till he was sure
that all who could respond had come, then led them from that dreadful place, far, far away
up-stream, where barbed-wire fences and bramble thickets were found to offer a less grateful,
but more reliable, shelter.

Here the brood grew and were trained by their father just as his mother had trained him; though
wider knowledge and experience gave him many advantages. He knew so well the country round
and all the feeding-grounds, and how to meet the ills that harass partridge-life, that the
summer passed and not a chick was lost. They grew and flourished, and when the Gunner Moon
arrived they were a fine family of six grown-up grouse with Redruff, splendid in his gleaming
copper feathers, at their head. He had ceased to drum during the summer after the loss of Brownie,
but drumming is to the partridge what singing is to the lark; while it is his love-song, it
is also an expression of exuberance born of health, and when the molt was over and September
food and weather had renewed his splendid plumes and braced him up again, his spirits revived,
and finding himself one day near the old log he mounted impulsively, and drummed again and again.

From that time he often drummed, while his children sat around, or one who showed his father's
blood would mount some nearby stump or stone, and beat the air in the loud tattoo.

The black grapes and the Mad Moon now came on. But Redruff's brood were of a vigorous stock;
their robust health meant robust wits, and though they got the craze, it passed within a week,
and only three had flown away for good.

Redruff, with his remaining three, was living in the glen when the snow came. It was light,
flaky snow, and as the weather was not very cold, the family squatted for the night under the
low, flat boughs of a cedar-tree. But next day the storm continued, it grew colder, and the
drifts piled up all day. At night the snowfall ceased, but the frost grew harder still, so
Redruff, leading the family to a birch-tree above a deep drift, dived into the snow, and the
others did the same. Then into the holes the wind blew the loose snow--their pure white bed-*clothes,
and thus tucked in they slept in comfort, for the snow is a warm wrap, and the air passes through
it easily enough for breathing. Next morning each partridge found a solid wall of ice before
him from his frozen breath, but easily turned to one side and rose on the wing at Redruff's
morning 'Kreet, kreet, kwit.' (Come children, come children, fly.)

This was the first night for them in a snowdrift, though it was an old story to Redruff, and
next night they merrily dived again into bed, and the north wind tucked them in as before.
But a change of weather was brewing. The night wind veered to the east. A fall of heavy flakes
gave place to sleet, and that to silver rain. The whole wide world was sheathed in ice, and
when the grouse awoke to quit their beds, they found themselves sealed in with a great, cruel
sheet of edgeless ice.

The deeper snow was still quite soft, and Redruff bored his way to the top, but there the hard,
white sheet defied his strength. Hammer and struggle as he might he could make no impression,
and only bruised his wings and head. His life had been made up of keen joys and dull hardships,
with frequent sudden desperate straits, but this seemed the hardest brunt of all, as the slow
hours wore on and found him weakening with his struggles, but no nearer to freedom. He could
hear the struggling of his family, too, or sometimes heard them calling to him for help with
their long-drawn plaintive 'p-e-e-e-e-e-t-e, p-e-e-e-e-e-t-e.'

They were hidden from many of their enemies, but not from the pangs of hunger, and when the
night came down the weary prisoners, worn out with hunger and useless toil, grew quiet in despair.
At first they had been afraid the fox would come and find them imprisoned there at his mercy,
but as the second night went slowly by they no longer cared, and even wished he would come
and break the crusted snow, and so give them at least a fighting chance for life.

But when the fox really did come padding over the frozen drift, the deep-laid love of life
revived, and they crouched in utter stillness till he passed. The second day was one of driving
storm. The north wind sent his snow-horses, hissing and careering over the white earth, tossing
and curling their white manes and kicking up more snow as they dashed on. The long, hard grinding
of the granular snow seemed to be thinning the snow-crust, for though far from dark below,
it kept on growing lighter. Redruff had pecked and pecked at the under side all day, till his
head ached and his bill was wearing blunt, but when the sun went down he seemed as far as ever
from escape. The night passed like the others, except no fox went trotting overhead. In the
morning he renewed his pecking, though now with scarcely any force, and the voices or struggles
of the others were no more heard. As the daylight grew stronger he could see that his long
efforts had made a brighter spot above him in the snow, and he continued feebly pecking. Outside,
the storm-horses kept on trampling all day, the crust was really growing thin under their heels,
and late that afternoon his bill went through into the open air. New life came with this gain,
and he pecked away, till just before the sun went down he had made a hole that his head, his
neck, and his ever-beautiful ruffs could pass. His great, broad shoulders were too large, but
he could now strike downward, which gave him fourfold force; the snow-crust crumbled quickly,
and in a little while he sprang from his icy prison once more free. But the young ones! Redruff
flew to the nearest bank, hastily gathered a few red hips to stay his gnawing hunger, then
returned to the prison-drift and clucked and stamped. He got only one reply, a feeble 'peete,
peete,' and scratching with his sharp claws on the thinned granular sheet he soon broke through,
and Graytail feebly crawled out of the hole. But that was all; the others, scattered he could
not tell where in the drift, made no reply, gave no sign of life, and he was forced to leave
them. When the snow melted in the spring their bodies came to view, skin, bones, and feathers--nothing
more.

VII

It was long before Redruff and Graytail fully recovered, but food and rest in plenty are sure
cure-alls, and a bright, clear day in midwinter had the usual effect of setting the vigorous
Redruff to drumming on the log. Was it the drumming, or the tell-tale tracks of their snowshoes
on the omnipresent snow, that betrayed them to Cuddy? He came prowling again and again up the
ravine, with dog and gun, intent to hunt the partridges down. They knew him of old, and he
was coming now to know them well. That great copper-ruffed cock was becoming famous up and
down the valley. During the Gunner Moon many a one had tried to end his splendid life, just
as a worthless wretch of old sought fame by burning the Ephesian wonder of the world. But Redruff
was deep in woodcraft. He knew just where to hide, and when to rise on silent wing, and when
to squat till overstepped, then rise on thunder wing within a yard to shield himself at once
behind some mighty tree-trunk and speed away.

But Cuddy never ceased to follow with his gun that red-ruffed cock; many a long snap-shot he
tried, but somehow always found a tree, a bank, or some safe shield between, and Redruff lived
and throve and drummed.

