To the senses of a schoolboy a green sour crab is as a golden pippin, more delicious than any
pine-apple--the tree which he climbs to pluck it seems to grow in the garden of Eden--and the
parish, moorland though it be, over which he is let loose to play--Paradise. It is barely possible
there may be such a substance as matter, but all its qualities worth having are given it by
mind. By a necessity of nature, then, we are all poets. We all make the food we feed on; nor
is jealousy, the green-eyed monster, the only wretch who discolours and deforms. Every evil
thought does so--every good thought gives fresh lustre to the grass--to the flowers--to the
stars. And as the faculties of sense, after becoming finer and more fine, do then, because
that they are earthly, gradually lose their power, the faculties of the soul, because that
they are heavenly, become then more and more and more independent of such ministrations, and
continue to deal with images, and with ideas which are diviner than images, nor care for either
partial or total eclipse of the daylight, conversant as they are, and familiar with a more
resplendent--a spiritual universe.

You still look incredulous and unconvinced of the truth of our position--but it was established
in our first three paragraphs; and the rest, though proofs too, are intended merely for illustrations.
Age alone understands the language of old Mother Earth--for Age alone, from his own experience,
can imagine its meanings in trouble or in rest--often mysterious enough even to him in all
conscience--but intelligible though inarticulate--nor always inarticulate; for though sobs
and sighs are rife, and whispers and murmurs, and groans and gurgling, yea, sometimes yells
and cries, as if the old Earth were undergoing a violent death--yet many a time and oft, within
these few years, have we heard her slowly syllabling words out of the Bible, and as in listening
we looked up to the sky, the fixed stars responded to their truth, and, like Mercy visiting
Despair, the Moon bore it into the heart of the stormy clouds.

And are there not now--have there never been young Poets? Many; for Passion, so tossed as to
leave, perhaps to give, the sufferer power to reflect on his ecstasy, grows poetical because
creative, and loves to express itself in "Prose or numerous verse," at once its nutriment and
relief. Nay, Nature sometimes gifts her children with an imaginative spirit, that, from slight
experiences of passion, rejoices to idealise intentions, and incidents, and characters all
coloured by it, or subject to its sway; and these are Poets, not with old heads on young shoulders,
but with old hearts in young bosoms; yet such premature genius seldom escapes blight, the very
springs of life are troubled, and its possessor sinks, pines, fades, and dies. So was it with
Chatterton and Keats.

It may be, after all, that we have only proved Age to be the strongest season of Imagination;
and if so, we have proved all we wish, for we seek not to deny, but to vindicate. Knowledge
is power to the poet as it is power to all men--and indeed without Art and Science what is
Poetry? Without cultivation the faculty divine can have but imperfect vision. The inner eye
is dependent on the outward eye long familiar with material objects--a finer sense, cognisant
of spiritualities, but acquired by the soul from constant communion with shadows--innate the
capacity, but awakened into power by gracious intercourse with Nature. Thus Milton saw--after
he became blind.

But know that Age is not made up of a multitude of years--though that be the vulgar reckoning--but
of a multitude of experiences; and that a man at thirty, if good for much, must be old. How
long he may continue in the prime of Age, God decrees; many men of the most magnificent minds--for
example, Michael Angelo--have been all-glorious in power and majesty at fourscore and upwards;
but one drop of water on the brain can at any hour make it barren as desert dust. So can great
griefs.

Yestreen we had rather a hard bout of it in the Tent--the Glenlivet was pithy--and our Tail
sustained a total overthrow. They are snoring as if it still were midnight. And is it thus
that we sportsmen spend our time on the Moors? Yet while "so many of our poorest subjects are
yet asleep," let us re-point the nib of our pen, and in the eye of the sweet-breathed morning--moralise.

Well-nigh quarter a century, we said, is over and gone since by the Linn of Dee we pitched--on
that famous excursion--THE TENT. Then was the genesis of that white witch Maga--

    "Like some tall Palm her noiseless fabric grew!"

Nay, not noiseless--for the deafest wight that ever strove to hear with his mouth wide open,
might have sworn that he heard the sound of ten thousand hammers. Neither grew she like a Palm--but
like a Banyan-tree.

But, alas! for the Odontist! He, the "Deliciæ generis Humani," is dead. The best of all the
Bishops of Bristol is no more. Mansel had not a tithe of his wit--nor Kaye a tithe of his wisdom.
And can it be that we have not yet edited "His Remains!" "Alas! poor Yorick!" If Hamlet could
smile even with the skull of the Jester in his hands, whom when a princely boy he had loved,
hanging on his neck many a thousand times, why may not we, in our mind's eye seeing that mirthful
face "quite chap-fallen," and hearing as if dismally deadened by the dust, the voice that "so
often set our table on a roar!" Dr Parr's wig, too, is all out of frizzle; a heavier shot has
dishevelled its horsehair than ever was sent from the Shepherd's gun; no more shall it be mistaken
for owl a-blink on the mid-day bough, or ptarmigan basking in the sun high up among the regions
of the snow. It has vanished, with other lost things, to the Moon; and its image alone remains
for the next edition of the celebrated treatise "De Rebus Deperditis," a suitable and a welcome
frontispiece, transferred thither by the engraver's cunning from the first of those Eight Tomes
that might make the Trone tremble, laid on the shoulders of Atlas who threatens to put down
the Globe, by the least judicious and the most unmerciful of editors that ever imposed upon
the light living the heavy dead--John Johnson, late of Birmingham, Fellow of the Royal Society,
and of the Royal College of Physicians, whose practice is duller than that of all Death's doctors,
and his prescriptions in that preface unchristianly severe. ODoherty, likewise, has been gathered
to his fathers. The Standard-bearer has lowered his colours before the foe who alone is invincible.
The Ensign, let us not fear, has been advanced to a company without purchase, in the Celestials;
the Adjutant has got a Staff appointment. Tims was lately rumoured to be in a galloping consumption;
but the very terms of the report, about one so sedentary, were sufficient to give it the lie.
Though puny, he is far from being unwell; and still engaged in polishing tea-spoons and other
plated articles, at a rate cheaper than travelling gypsies do horn. Prince Leopold is now King
of the Belgians--but we must put an end in the Tent to that portentous snore.

    "Arise, awake, or be for ever fallen!"

Ho--ho! gentlemen--so you have had the precaution to sleep in your clothes. The sun, like Maga,
is mounting higher and higher in heaven; so let us, we beseech you, to breakfast, and then
off to the Moors.

"Substantial breakfast!" by Dugald Dhu, and by Donald Roy, and by Hamish Bhan--heaped up like
icebergs round the pole. How nobly stands in the centre that ten-gallon Cask of Glenlivet!
Proud is that Round to court his shade. That twenty-pound Salmon lies beneath it even as yesterday
he lay beneath the cliff, while a column of light falls from him on that Grouse-Pie. Is not
that Ham beautiful in the calm consciousness of his protection? That Tongue mutely eloquent
in his praise? Tap him with your knuckles, tenderly as if you loved him--and that with all
your heart and soul you do--and is not the response firm as from the trunk of the gnarled oak?
He is yet "Virgin of Proserpina"--"by Jove" he is; no wanton lip has ever touched his mouth
so chaste; so knock out the bung, and let us hear him gurgle. With diviner music does he fill
the pitcher, and with a diviner liquidity of light than did ever Naiad from fount of Helicon
or Castaly, pour into classic urn gracefully uplifted by Grecian damsel to her graceful head,
and borne away, with a thanksgiving hymn, to her bower in the olive-grove.

All eggs are good eating; and 'tis a vulgar heresy which holds that those laid by sea-fowl
have a fishy taste. The egg of the Sew-mew is exceeding sweet; so is that of the Gull. Pleasant
is even the yolk of the Cormorant--in the north of England ycleped the Scarth, and in the Lowlands
of Scotland the Black Byuter. Try a Black Byuter's egg, my dear boy; for though not newly laid,
it has since May been preserved in butter, and is as fresh as a daisy after a shower. Do not
be afraid of stumbling on a brace of embryo Black Byuters in the interior of the globe, for
by its weight we pronounce it an egg in no peril of parturition. You may now smack your lips,
loud as if you were smacking your palms, for that yellow morsel was unknown to Vitellius. Don't
crush the shell, but throw it into the Etive, that the Fairies may find it at night, and go
dancing in the fragile but buoyant canoe, in fits of small shrill laughter, along with the
foam-bells over the ebb-tide Rapids above Connal's raging Ferry.

The salmon is in shivers, and the grouse-pie has vanished like a dream.

    "So fades, so languishes, grows dim, and dies,
    All that this world is proud of!"

Only a goose remains! and would that he too were gone to return no more; for he makes us an
old man. No tradition survives in the Glen of the era at which he first flourished. He seems
to have belonged to some tribe of the Anseres now extinct; and as for his own single individual
self, our senses tell us, in a language not to be misinterpreted, that he must have become
defunct in the darkness of antiquity. But nothing can be too old for a devil--so at supper
let us rectify him in Cayenne.

Oh! for David Wilkie, or William Simpson (while we send Gibb to bring away yonder Shieling
and its cliff), to paint a picture--coloured, if possible, from the life--of the Interior of
our airy Pyramid. Door open, and perpendicular canvass walls folded up--that settled but cloudy
sky, with here its broad blue fields, and there its broad blue glimpsing glades--this greensward
mound in the midst of a wilderness of rock-strewn heather--as much of that one mountain, and
as many of those others, as it can be made to hold--that bright bend of the river--a silver
bow--and that white-sanded, shelly, shingly shore at Loch-Etive Head, on which a troop of Tritons
are "charging with all their chivalry," still driven back and still returning, to the sound
of trumpets, of "flutes and soft recorders," from the sea. On the table, all strewn and scattered
"in confusion worse confounded," round the Cask, which

              --"dilated stands
    Like Teneriffe or Atlas unremoved,"

what "buttery touches" might be given to the

    --"reliquias Danaum atque inmitis Achillei!"

Then the camp-beds tidily covered and arranged along their own department of the circle--quaint
dresses hanging from loops, all the various apparelling of hunter, shooter, fisher, and forester--rods,
baskets, and nets occupying their picturesque division--fowling-pieces, double and single,
rejoicing through the oil-smooth brownness of their barrels in the exquisite workmanship of
a Manton and a Lancaster--American rifles, with their stocks more richly silver-chased than
you could have thought within reach of the arts in that young and prosperous land--duck-guns,
whose formidable and fatal length had in Lincolnshire often swept the fens--and on each side
of the door, a brass carronade on idle hours to awaken the echoes--sitting erect on their hurdies,
deer-hound, greyhound, lurcher, pointer, setter, spaniel, varmint, and though last, not least,
O'Bronte watching Christopher with his steadfast eyes, slightly raised his large hanging triangular
ears, his Thessalian bull dewlaps betokening keen anxiety to be off and away to the mountain,
and with a full view of the white star on his coal-black breast;--

    "Plaided and plumed in their tartan array"

our three chosen Highlanders, chosen for their strength and their fleetness from among the
prime Children of the Mist--and Tickler the Tall, who keeps growing after threescore and ten
like a stripling, and leaves his mark within a few inches of the top of the pole, arrayed in
tights of Kendal green, bright from the skylight of the inimitable Vallance or the matchless
Williams--green too his vest, and green also his tunic--while a green feather in a green bonnet
dances in its airy splendour, and gold button-holes give at once lustre and relief to the glowing
verdure (such was Little John, when arrayed in all his glory; to walk behind Robin Hood and
Maid Marian, as they glided from tree to tree, in wait for the fallow-deer in merry Sherwood)--North
in his Quaker garb--Quaker-like all but in cuffs and flaps, which, when he goes to the Forest,
are not--North, with a figure combining in itself all the strength of a William Penn, sans
its corpulency, all the agility of a Jem Belcher with far more than a Jem Belcher's bottom--with
a face exhibiting in rarest union all the philosophy of a Bacon, the benevolence of a Howard,
the wisdom of a Wordsworth, the fire of a Byron, the gnosticity of a John Bee, and the up-to-trappishness
combined not only with perfect honesty, but with honour bright, of the Sporting Editor of Bell's
Life in London--and then, why if Wilkie or Simpson fail in making a GEM of all that, they are
not the men of genius we took them for, that is all, and the art must be at a low ebb indeed
in these kingdoms.

Well, our Tail has taken wings to itself and flown away with Dugald Dhu and Donald Roy; and
we, with Hamish Bhan, with Ponto, Piro, Basta, and O'Bronte, are left by ourselves in the Tent.
Before we proceed farther, it may not be much amiss to turn up our little fingers--yestreen
we were all a leetle opstropelous--and spermaceti is not a more "sovereign remedy for an inward
bruise," than is a hair from the dog's tail that bit you an antidote to any pus that produces
rabies in the shape of hydrophobia. Fill up the quaich, Hamish! a caulker of Milbank can harm
no man at any hour of the day--at least in the Highlands. Sma' Stell, Hamish--assuredly Sma' Stell!

Ere we start, Hamish, play us a Gathering--and then a Pibroch. "The Campbells are coming" is
like a storm from the mountain sweeping Glen-More, that roars beneath the hastening hurricane
with all its woods. No earthquake like that which accompanies the trampling of ten thousand
men. So, round that shoulder, Hamish--and away for a mile up the Glen--then, turning on your
heel, blow till proud might be the mother that bore you; and from the Tent-mouth Christopher
will keep smart fire from his Pattereroes, answered by all the echoes. Hamish--indeed

            "The dun-deer's hide
    On swifter foot was never tied--"

for even now as that cloud--rather thunderous in his aspect--settles himself over the Tent--ere
five minutes have elapsed--a mile off is the sullen sound of the bagpipe!--music which, if
it rouse you not when heard among the mountains, may you henceforth confine yourself to the
Jew's harp. Ay, here's a claymore--let us fling away the scabbard--and in upon the front rank
of the bayoneted muskets, till the Saxon array reels, or falls just where it has been standing,
like a swathe of grass. So swept of old the Highlanders--shepherds and herdsmen--down the wooded
cliffs of the pass of Killiecrankie, till Mackay's red-coats lay redder in blood among the
heather, or passed away like the lurid fragments of a cloud. "The Campbells are coming"--and
we will charge with the heroes in the van. The whole clan is maddening along the Moor--and
Maccallum More himself is at their head. But we beseech you, O'Bronte! not to look so like
a lion--and to hush in your throat and breast that truly Leonine growl--for after all, 'tis
but a bagpipe with ribands

    "Streaming like meteors to the troubled air,"

and all our martial enthusiasm has evaporated in--wind.

But let us inspect Brown Bess. Till sixty, we used a single barrel. At seventy we took to a
double;--but dang detonators--we stick to the flint. "Flint," says Colonel Hawker, "shoots
strongest into the bird." A percussion-gun is quicker, but flint is fast enough; and it does,
indeed, argue rather a confusion than a rapidity of ideas, to find fault with lightning for
being too slow. With respect to the flash in the pan, it is but a fair warning to ducks, for
example, to dive if they can, and get out of the way of mischief. It is giving birds a chance
for their lives, and is it not ungenerous to grudge it? When our gun goes to our shoulder,
that chance is but small; for with double-barrel Brown Bess, it is but a word and a blow,--the
blow first, and long before you could say Jack Robinson, the gorcock plays thud on the heather.
But we beg leave to set the question at rest for ever by one single clencher. We have killed
fifty birds--grouse--at fifty successive shots--one bird only to the shot. And mind, not mere
pouts--cheepers--for we are no chicken-butchers--but all thumpers--cocks and hens as big as
their parents, and the parents themselves likewise; not one of which fell out of bounds (to
borrow a phrase from the somewhat silly though skilful pastime of pigeon-shooting), except
one that suddenly soared half-way up to the moon, and then

    "Into such strange vagaries fell
    As he would dance,"

and tumbled down stone-dead into a loch. Now, what more could have done a detonator in the
hands of the devil himself? Satan might have shot as well, perhaps, as Christopher North--better
we defy him; and we cannot doubt that his detonator--given to him in a present, we believe,
by Joe Manton--is a prime article--one of the best ever manufactured on the percussion system.
But what more could he have done? When we had killed our fiftieth bird in style, we put it
to the Christian reader, would not the odds have been six to four on the flint? And would not
Satan, at the close of the match, ten birds behind perhaps, and with a bag shamefully rich
in poor pouts, that would have fallen to the ground had he but thrown salt on their tails,
have looked excessively sheepish? True, that in rain or snow the percussion-lock will act,
from its detonating power, more correctly than the common flint-lock, which, begging its pardon,
will then often not act at all; but that is its only advantage, and we confess a great one,
especially in Scotland, where it is a libel on the country to say that it always rains, for
it almost as often snows. However, spite of wind and weather, we are faithful to flint; nor
shall any newfangled invention, howsoever ingenious, wean us from our First Love.

Let not youthful or middle-aged sportsmen--in whose veins the blood yet gallops, canters, or
trots--despise us, Monsieur Vieillard, in whose veins the blood creeps like a wearied pedestrian
at twilight hardly able to hobble into the wayside inn--for thus so long preferring the steel
pen to the steel barrel (the style of both is equally polished)--our Bramah to our Manton.
Those two wild young fellows, Tickler and the Admiral, whose united ages amount to little more
than a century and a half, are already slaughtering their way along the mountain-side, the
one on Buachaille Etive, and the other on the Black Mount. But we love not to commit murder
long before meridian--"gentle lover of Nature" as we are; so, in spite of the scorn of the
more passionate sportsman, we shall continue for an hour or two longer inditing, ever and anon
lifting our eyes from whitey-brown paper to whitey-blue sky, from memorandum-book to mountain,
from ink-bottle to loch, and delight ourselves, and perchance a few thousand others, by a waking-dream
description of Glen-Etive.

'Tis a vast Glen. Not one single human dwelling anywhere speck-like on the river-winding plain--or
nest-like among the brushwood knolls--or rock-like among the fractured cliffs far up on the
mountain region do our eyes behold, eager as they are to discover some symptom of life. Two
houses we know to be in the solitude--ay, two--one of them near the head of the Loch, and the
other near the head of the Glen--but both distant from this our Tent, which is pitched between,
in the very heart of the Moor. We were mistaken in saying that Dalness is invisible--for yonder
it looms in a sullen light, and before we have finished the sentence, may have again sunk into
the moor. Ay, it is gone--for lights and shadows coming and going, we know not whence nor whither,
here travel all day long--the sole tenants--very ghostlike--and seemingly in their shiftings
imbued with a sort of dim uncertain life. How far off from our Tent may be the Loch? Miles--and
silently as snow are seen to break the waves along the shore, while beyond them hangs an aerial
haze, the great blue water. How far off from our Tent may be the mountains at the head of the
Glen? Miles--for though that speck in the sky into which they upheave their mighty altitudes,
be doubtless an eagle, we cannot hear its cry. What giants are these right opposite our Pyramid?--Co--grim
chieftain--and his Tail. What an assemblage of thunder-riven cliffs! This is what may be well
called--Nature on a grand scale. And then, how simple! We begin to feel ourselves--in spite
of all we can do to support our dignity by our pride--a mighty small and insignificant personage.
We are about six feet high--and everybody around us about four thousand. Yes, that is the Four
Thousand Feet Club! We had no idea that in any situation we could be such dwindled dwarfs,
such perfect pigmies. Our Tent is about as big as a fir-cone--and Christopher North an insect!

What a wild world of clouds all over that vast central wilderness of Northern Argyllshire lying
between Cruachan and Melnatorran--Corryfinuarach and Ben Slarive, a prodigious land! defying
description, and in memory resembling not realities, but like fragments of tremendous dreams.
Is it a sterile region? Very. In places nothing but stones. Not a blade of grass--not a bent
of heather--not even moss. And so they go shouldering up into the sky--enormous masses--huger
than churches or ships. And sometimes not unlike such and other structures--all huddled together--yet
never jostling, so far as we have seen; and though often overhanging, as if the wind might
blow them over with a puff, steadfast in the storm that seems rather to be an earthquake, and
moving not an hair's-breadth, while all the shingly sides of the mountains--you know shingle--with
an inconstant clatter--hurry-skurry--seem to be breaking up into debris.

Is that the character of the whole region? No, you darling; it has vales on vales of emerald,
and mountains on mountains of amethyst, and streams on streams of silver; and, so help us Heaven!--for
with these eyes we have seen them, a thousand and a thousand times--at sunrise and sunset,
rivers on rivers of gold. What kind of climate? All kinds, and all kinds at once--not merely
during the same season, but the same hour. Suppose it three o'clock of a summer afternoon--you
have but to choose your weather. Do you desire a close sultry breathless gloom? You have it
in the stifling dens of Ben-An[=e]a, where lions might breed. A breezy coolness, with a sprinkling
of rain? Then open your vest to the green light in the dewy vales of Benl[=u]ra. Lochs look
lovely in mist, and so thinks the rainbow--then away with you ere the rainbow fade--away, we
beseech you, to the wild shores of Lochan-a-L[=u]rich. But you would rather see a storm, and
hear some Highland thunder? There is one at this moment on Unimore, and Cruachl[=i]a growls
to Meallanuir, till the cataracts of Glashgour are dumb as the dry rocks of Craig-te[=o]nan.

In those regions we were, when a boy, initiated into the highest mysteries of the Highlands.
No guide dogged our steps--as well might a red-deer have asked a cur to show him the Forest
of Braemar, or Beniglo--an eagle where best to build his eyrie have advised with the Glasgow
Gander. O heavens! how we were bewildered among the vast objects that fed that delirium of
our boyhood! We dimly recognised faces of cliffs wearing dreadful frowns; blind though they
looked, they seemed sensible of our approach; and we heard one horrid monster mutter, "What
brings thee here, infatuated Pech?--begone!" At his impotent malice we could not choose but
smile, and shook our staff at the blockhead, as since at many a greater blockhead even than
he have we shook--and more than shook our Crutch. But as through "pastures green and quiet
waters by," we pursued, from sunrise to sunset, our uncompanioned way, some sweet spot, surrounded
by heather, and shaded by fern, would woo us to lie down on its bosom, and enjoy a visionary
sleep! Then it was that the mountains confidentially told us their names--and we got them all
by heart; for each name characterised its owner by some of his peculiar and prominent qualities--as
if they had been one and all christened by poets baptising them from a font

              "Translucent, pure,
    With touch ethereal of heaven's fiery rod."

O! happy pastor of a peaceful flock! Thou hast long gone to thy reward! One--two--three--four
successors hast thou had in that manse--(now it too has been taken down and the plough gone
over it)--and they all did their duty; yet still is thy memory fragrant in the glen; for deeds
like thine "smell sweet, and blossom in the dust!" Under heaven, we owed our life to thy care
of us in a brain fever. Sometimes thy face would grow grave, never angry, at our sallies--follies--call
them what you will, but not sins. And methinks we hear the mild old man somewhat mournfully
saying, "Mad boy! out of gladness often cometh grief--out of mirth misery; but our prayers,
when thou leavest us, shall be, that never, never may such be thy fate!" Were those prayers
heard in heaven and granted on earth? We ask our heart in awe, but its depths are silent, and
make no response.

But is it our intention to sit scribbling here all day? Our fancy lets our feet enjoy their
sinecure, and they stretch themselves out in indolent longitude beneath the Tent-table, while
we are settled in spirit, a silent thought, on the battlements of our cloud-castle on the summit
of Cruachan. What a prospect! Our cloud-castle rests upon a foundation of granite precipices;
and down along their hundred chasms, from which the eye recoils, we look on Loch-Etive bearing
on its bosom stationary--so it seems in the sunshine--one snow-white sail! What brings the
creature there--and on what errand may she be voyaging up the uninhabited sea-arm that stretches
away into the uninhabited mountains? Some poet, perhaps, steers her--sitting at the helm in
a dream, and allowing her to dance her own way, at her own will, up and down the green glens
and hills of the foam-crested waves--a swell rolling in the beauty of light and music for ever
attendant on her, as the Sea-mew--for so we choose to name her--pursues her voyage--now on
water, and now, as the breezes drop, in the air--elements at times undistinguishable, as the
shadows of the clouds and of the mountains mingle their imagery in the sea. Oh! that our head,
like that of a spider, were all studded with eyes--that our imagination, sitting in the "palace
of the soul" (a noble expression, borrowed or stolen by Byron from Waller), might see all at
once all the sights from centre to circumference, as if all rallying around her for her own
delight, and oppressing her with the poetry of nature--a lyrical, an elegiac, an epic, or a
tragic strain. Now the bright blue water-gleams enchain her vision, and are felt to constitute
the vital, the essential spirit of the whole--Loch Awe land-serpent, large as serpent of the
sea, lying asleep in the sun, with his burnished skin all bedropt with scales of silver and
of gold--the lands of Lorn, mottled and speckled with innumerous lakelets, where fancy sees
millions of water-lilies riding at anchor in bays where the breezes have fallen asleep--Oban,
splendid among the splendours of that now almost motionless mediterranean, the mountain-loving
Linnhe Loch--Jura, Islay, Colonsay, and nameless other islands, floating far and wide away
on--on to Coll and Tiree, drowned beneath the faint horizon. But now all the eyes in our spider-head
are lost in one blaze of undistinguishable glory; for the whole Highlands of Scotland are up
in their power against us--rivers, lochs, seas, islands, cliffs, clouds, and mountains. The
pen drops from our hand, and here we are--not on the battlements of the air-palace on the summit
of Cruachan, but sitting on a tripod or three-legged stool at the mouth of our Tent, with our
MS. before us, and at our right hand a quaich of Glenlivet, fresh drawn from yonder ten-gallon
cask--and here's to the health of "Honest men and bonny lasses" all over the globe.

So much for description--an art in which the Public (God bless her, where is she now--and shall
we ever see her more?) has been often pleased to say that we excel. But let us off to the Moor.
Piro! Ponto! Basta! to your paws, and O'Bronte, unfurl your tail to heaven. Pointers! ye are
a noble trio. White, O Ponto! art thou as the foam of the sea. Piro! thou tan of all tans!
red art thou as the dun-deer's hide, and fleet as he while thou rangest the mountain-brow,
now hid in heather, and now reappearing over the rocks. Waur hawk, Basta!--for finest-scented
though be thy scarlet nostrils, one bad trick alone hast thou; and whenever that grey wing
glances from some pillar-stone in the wilderness, headlong goest thou, O lawless negro! But
behave thyself to-day, Basta! and let the kestrel unheeded sail or sun herself on the cliff.
As for thee, O'Bronte! the sable dog with the star-bright breast, keep thou like a serf at
our heels, and when our course lies over the fens and marshes, thou mayest sweep like a hairy
hurricane among the flappers, and haply to-day grip the old drake himself, and, with thy fan-like
tail proudly spread in the wind, deposit at thy master's feet, with a smile, the monstrous mallard.

But in what direction shall we go, callants--towards what airt shall we turn our faces? Over
yonder cliffs shall we ascend, and descend into Glen-Creran, where the stony regions that the
ptarmigan loves melt away into miles of the grousey heather, which, ere we near the salmon-haunted
Loch so beautiful, loses itself in woods that mellow all the heights of Glen Ure and Fasnacloigh
with sylvan shades, wherein the cushat coos, and the roe glides through the secret covert?
Or shall we away up by Kinloch-Etive, and Melnatorran, and Mealgayre, into the Solitude of
Streams, that from all their lofty sources down to the far-distant Loch have never yet brooked,
nor will they ever brook, the bondage of bridges, save of some huge stone flung across some
chasm, or trunk of a tree--none but trunks of trees there, and all dead for centuries--that
had sunk down where it grew, and spanned the flood that eddies round it with a louder music?
Wild region! yet not barren; for there are cattle on a thousand hills, that, wild as the very
red-deer, toss their heads as they snuff the feet of rarest stranger, and form round him in
a half-alarmed and half-threatening crescent. There flocks of goats--outliers from Dalness--may
be seen as if following one another on the very air, along the lichen-stained cliffs that frown
down unfathomed abysses--and there is frequent heard the whirring of the gorcock's wing, and
his gobble gathering together his brood, scattered by the lightning that in its season volleys
through the silence, else far deeper than that of death;--for the silence of death--that is,
of a churchyard filled with tombs--is nothing to the austerity of the noiselessness that prevails
under the shadow of Unimore and Attchorachan, with their cliffs on which the storms have engraven
strange hieroglyphical inscriptions, which, could but we read them wisely, would record the
successive ages of the Earth, from the hour when fire or flood first moulded the mountains,
down to the very moment that we are speaking, and with small steel-hammer roughening the edges
of our flints that they may fail not to murder. Or shall we away down by Armaddy, where the
Fox-Hunter dwells--and through the woods of Inverkinglass and Achran, "double, double, toil
and trouble" overcome the braes of Benanea and Mealcopucaich, and drop down like two unwearied
eagles into Glen-Scrae, with a peep in the distance of the young tower of Dalmally, and the
old turrets of Kilchurn? Rich and rare is the shooting-ground, Hamish, which by that route
lies between this our Tent and the many tarns that freshen the wildernesses of Lochanancrioch.
Say the word--tip the wink--tongue on your cheek--up with your forefinger--and we shall go;
for hark, Hamish, our chronometer chimes eight--a long day is yet before us--and what if we
be benighted? We have a full moon and plenty of stars.

All these are splendid schemes--but what say you, Hamish, to one less ambitious, and better
adapted to Old Kit? Let us beat all the best bits down by Armaddy--the Forge--Gleno, and Inveraw.
We may do that well in some six or seven hours--and then let us try that famous salmon-cast
nearest the mansion--(you have the rods?)--and if time permit, an hour's trolling in Loch Awe,
below the Pass of the Brander, for one of those giants that have immortalised the names of
a Maule, a Goldie, and a Wilson. Mercy on us, Shelty, what a beard! You cannot have been shaved
since Whitsunday--and never saw we such lengthy love-locks as those dangling at your heels.
But let us mount, old Surefoot--mulish in nought but an inveterate aversion to all stumbling.
And now for the heather! But are you sure, gents, that we are on?

And has it come to this! Where is the grandson of the desert-born?

Thirty years ago, and thou Filho da Puta wert a flyer! A fencer beyond compare! Dost thou remember
how, for a cool five hundred, thou clearedst yon canal in a style that rivalled that of the
red-deer across the chasms of Cairngorm? All we had to do was to hold hard and not ride over
the hounds, when running breast-high on the rear of Reynard the savage pack wakened the welkin
with the tumultuous hubbub of their death-cry, and whipper-in and huntsman were flogging on
their faltering flight in vain through fields and forests flying behind thy heels that glanced
and glittered in the frosty sunshine. What steed like thee in all Britain at a steeple-chase?
Thy hoofs scorned the strong stubble, and skimmed the deep fallows, in which all other horses--heavy
there as dragoons--seemed fetlock-bound, or laboured on in staggerings, soil-sunk to the knees.
Ditches dwindled beneath thy bounds, and rivulets were as rills; or if in flood they rudely
overran their banks, into the spate plunged thy sixteen hands and a-half height, like a Polar
monster leaping from an iceberg into the sea, and then lifting up thy small head and fine neck
and high shoulder, like a Draco from the weltering waters, with a few proud pawings to which
the recovered greensward rang, thy whole bold, bright-brown bulk reappeared on the bank, crested
by old Christopher, and after one short snorting pause, over the miry meadows--tantivy!--tantivy!--away!
away! away!

Oh! son of a Rep! were not those glorious days?

'Tis the last learned and highest lesson of Wisdom, Filho, in man's studious obedience to Nature's
laws--to know when to stop in his career. Pride, Passion, Pleasure, all urge him on; while
Prudence, Propriety, Peace, cry halt! halt! halt! That mandate we have timeously obeyed; and
having, unblamed we hope, and blameless, carried on the pastimes of youth into manhood, and
even through the prime of manhood to the verge of age--on that verge, after some few farewell
vagaries up and down the debatable land, we had the resolution to drop our bridle-hand, to
unloosen the spurs from our heels, and to dismount from the stateliest and swiftest steed,
Filho, that ever wafted mortal man over moor and mountain like a storm-driven cloud.

You are sure we are on, Hamish? And that he will not run away? Come, come, Surefoot, none of
your funking! A better mane for holding on by we could not imagine. Pure Shelty you say, Hamish?
From his ears we should have suspected his grandfather of having been at least a Zebra.

THE MOORS.

FLIGHT SECOND--THE COVES OF CRUACHAN.

Comma--semicolon--colon--full-point! All three scent-struck into attitude steady as stones.
That is beautiful. Ponto straight as a rod--Piro in a slight curve--and Basta a perfect semicircle.
O'Bronte! down on your marrowbones. But there is no need, Hamish, either for hurry or haste.
On such ground, and on such a day, the birds will lie as if they were asleep. Hamish, the flask!--not
the powder-flask, you dotterel--but the Glenlivet. 'Tis thus we always love to steady our hand
for the first shot. It gives a fine feeling to the forefinger.

Ha! the heads of the old cock and hen, like snakes, above the heather--motionless, but with
glancing eyes--and preparing for the spring. Whirr--whirr--whirr--bang--bang--tapsilleery--tapsalteery--thud--
thud--thud! Old cock and old hen both down, Hamish. No mean omen, no awkward augury, of the
day's sport. Now for the orphan family--marked ye them round

    "The swelling instep of the mountain's foot?"

"Faith and she's the teevil's nainsel--that is she--at the shutin'; for may I tine ma mull,
and never pree sneeshin' mair, if she haena richt and left murdered fowre o' the creturs!"--"Four!--why,
we only covered the old people; but if younkers will cross, 'tis their own fault that they
bite the heather."--"They're a' fowre spewin', sir, except ane--and her head's aff--and she's
jumpin' about waur nor ony o' them, wi' her bluidy neck. I wuss she mayna tak to her wings
again, and owre the knowe. But ca' in that great toozy outlandish dowg, sir, for he's devourin'
them--see hoo he's flingin' them, first ane and then anither, outowre his shouther, and keppin'
them afore they touch the grun' in his mouth, like a mountebank wi' a shour o' oranges!"--"Hamish,
are they bagged?"--"Ou ay."--"Then away to windward, ye sons of bitches--Heavens, how they
do their work!"

Up to the time of our grand climacteric we loved a wide range--and thought nothing of describing
and discussing a circle of ten miles diameter in a day, up to our hips in heather. But for
these dozen or twenty years bypast we have preferred a narrow beat, snugly seated on a shelty,
and pad the hoof on the hill no more. Yonder is the kind of ground we now love--for why should
an old man make a toil of a pleasure? 'Tis one of the many small coves belonging to Glen-Etive,
and looks down from no very great elevation upon the Loch. Its bottom, and sides nearly half-way
up, are green pastures, sheep-nibbled as smooth as a lawn--and a rill, dropping in diamonds
from the cliffs at its upper end, betrays itself, where the water is invisible, by a line of
still livelier verdure. An old dilapidated sheepfold is the only building, and seems to make
the scene still more solitary. Above the green pastures are the richest beds and bosoms of
heather ever bees murmured on--and above them nothing but bare cliffs. A stiff breeze is now
blowing into this cove from the sea-loch; and we shall slaughter the orphan family at our leisure.
'Tis probable they have dropped--single bird after single bird--or in twos and threes--all
along the first line of heather that met their flight; and if so, we shall pop them like partridges
in turnips. Three points in the game! Each dog, it is manifest, stands to a different lot of
feathers; and we shall slaughter them, without dismounting, seriatim. No, Hamish--we must dismount--give
us your shoulder--that will do. The Crutch--now we are on our pins. Take a lesson. Whirr! Bang!
Bag number one, Hamish. Ay, that is right, Ponto--back Basta. Ditto, ditto. Now Ponto and Basta
both back Piro--right and left this time--and not one of the brood will be left to cheep of
Christopher. Be ready--attend us with the other double-barrel. Whirr! Bang--bang--bang--bang!
What think you of that, you son of the mist? There is a shower of feathers! They are all at
sixes and sevens upon the greensward at the edge of the heather. Seven birds at four shots!
The whole family is now disposed of--father, mother, and eleven children. If such fire still
be in the dry wood, what must it have been in the green? Let us lie down in the sheltered shade
of the mossy walls of the sheepfold--take a drop of Glenlivet--and philosophise.

Hollo! Hamish, who are these strange, suspicious-looking strangers thitherwards-bound, as hallan-shaker
a set as may be seen on an August day? Ay, ay, we ken the clan. A week's residence to a man
of gumption gives an insight into a neighbourhood. Unerring physiognomists and phrenologists
are we, and what with instinctive, and what with intuitive knowledge, we keek in a moment through
all disguise. He in the centre of the group is the stickit minister--on his right stands the
drunken dominie--on his left the captain, who in that raised look retains token of delirium
tremens--the land-louper behind him is the land-measurer, who would be well to do in the world
were he "monarch of all he surveyed,"--but has been long out at elbows, and his society not
much courted since he was rude to the auld wife at the time the gudeman was at the peats. That
fine tall youth, the widow's son in Gleno, and his friend the Sketcher, with his portfolio
under his arm, are in indifferent company, Hamish; but who, pray, may be the phenomenon in
plush, with bow and arrow, and tasseled horn, bonnet jauntily screwed to the sinister, glass
stuck in socket, and precisely in the middle of his puckered mouth a cigar. You do not say
so--a grocer's apprentice from the Gorbals!

No need of confabulating there, gemmen, on the knowe--come forward and confront Christopher
North. We find we have been too severe in our strictures. After all, they are not a bad set
of fellows, as the world goes--imprudence must not be too harshly condemned--Shakespeare taught
us to see the soul of good in things evil--these two are excellent lads; and, as for impertinence,
it often proceeds from mauvais honte, and with a glance we shall replace the archer behind
his counter.

How goes it, Cappy? Rather stiff in the back, minister, with the mouth of the fowling-piece
peeping out between the tails of your long coat, and the butt at the back of your head, by
way of bolster? You will find it more comfortable to have her in hand. That bamboo, dominie,
is well known to be an air-gun. Have you your horse-pistol with you to-day, surveyor? Sagittarius,
think you, you could hit, at twoscore, a haystack flying? Sit down, gentlemen, and let's have
a crack.

So ho! so ho! so ho! We see her black eyes beneath a primrose tuft on the brae. In spring all
one bank of blossoms; but 'tis barish now and sheep-nibbled, though few eyes but our own could
have thus detected there the brown back of Maukin. Dominie, your bamboo. Shoot her sitting?
Fie fie--no, no. Kick her up, Hamish. There she goes. We are out of practice at single ball--but
whizz! she has it between the shoulders. Head-over-heels she has started another--why, that's
funny--give us your bow and arrow, you green grocer--twang! within an inch of her fud. Gentlemen,
suppose we tip you a song. Join all in the chorus.

THE POWCHER'S SONG.

        When I was boon apprentice
          In vamous Zoomerzet Shere,
        Lauks! I zerved my meester truly
          Vor neerly zeven yeer,
        Until I took to Powching,
          Az you zhall quickly heer.
    CHO. Ou!

        Az me and ma coomerades
          Were zetting on a snere,
        Lauks! the Geamkeepoors caem oop to uz;
          Vor them we did na kere,
       'Case we could fight or wrestle, lads,
          Jump over ony wheere.

        Then here's success to Powching,
          Vor A doos think it feere,
        And here's look to ere a gentleman
          Az wants to buy a heere,
        And here's to ere a geamkeepoor,
          Az woona zell it deere.

The Presbytery might have overlooked your fault, Mac, for the case was not a flagrant one,
and you were willing, we understand, to make her an honest woman. Do you think you could recollect
one of your sermons? In action and in unction you had not your superior in the Synod. Do give
us a screed about Nimrod or Nebuchadnezzar. No desecration in a sermon--better omitted, we
grant, prayer and psalm. Should you be unable to reproduce an entire discourse, yet by dove-tailing--that
is, a bit from one and a bit from another--surely you can be at no loss for half an hour's
miscellaneous matter--heads and tails. Or suppose we let you off with a View of the Church
Question. You look glum and shake your head. Can you, Mac, how can you resist that Pulpit?

Behold in that semicircular low-browed cliff, backed by a range of bonny green braes dipping
down from the hills that do themselves come shelving from the mountains, what appears at first
sight to be a cave, but is merely a blind window, as it were, a few feet deep, arched and faced
like a beautiful work of masonry, though chisel never touched it, nor man's hand dropped the
line along the living stone thus wrought by nature's self, who often shows us, in her mysterious
processes, resemblances of effects produced by us her children on the same materials by our
more most elaborate art. It is a very pulpit, and that projecting slab is the sounding-board.
That upright stone in front of it, without the aid of fancy, may well be thought the desk.
To us sitting here, this spot of greensward is the floor; the sky that hangs low, as if it
loved it, the roof of the sanctuary; nor is there any harm in saying, that we, if we choose
to think so, are sitting in a kirk.

Shall we mount the pulpit by that natural flight of steps, and, like a Sedgwick or a Buckland,
with a specimen in one hand, and before our eyes mountains whose faces the scars of thunder
have intrenched, tell you how the globe, after formation on formation, became fit residence
for new-created man, and habitable no more to flying dragons? Or shall we, rather, taking the
globe as we find it, speculate on the changes wrought on its surface by us, whom God gave feet
to tread the earth, and faces to behold the heavens, and souls to soar into the heaven of heavens,
on the wings of hope, aspiring through temporal shades to eternal light?

Brethren!--The primary physical wants of the human being are food, clothing, shelter, and defence.
To supply these he has invented all his arts. Hunger and Thirst cultivate the earth. Fear builds
castles and embattles cities. The animal is clothed by nature against cold and storm, and shelters
himself in his den. Man builds his habitation, and weaves his clothing. With horns, or teeth,
or claws, the strong and deadly weapons with which nature has furnished them, the animal kinds
wage their war; he forges swords and spears, and constructs implements of destruction that
will send death almost as far as his eye can mark his foe, and sweep down thousands together.
The animal that goes in quest of his food, that pursues or flies from his enemy, has feet,
or wings, or fins; but man bids the horse, the camel, the elephant, bear him, and yokes them
to his chariot. If the strong animal would cross the river, he swims. Man spans it with a bridge.
But the most powerful of them all stands on the beach and gazes on the ocean. Man constructs
a ship, and encircles the globe. Other creatures must traverse the element nature has assigned,
with means she has furnished. He chooses his element, and makes his means. Can the fish traverse
the waters? So can he. Can the bird fly the air? So can he. Can the camel speed over the desert?
He shall bear man as his rider.

"That's beautifu'!" "Tuts, haud your tongue, and tak a chow. There's some shag." "Is he gaun
to be lang, Hamish?" "Wheesht! you micht as weel be speakin in the kirk."

But to see what he owes to inventive art, we should compare man, not with inferior creatures,
but with himself, looking over the face of human society, as history or observation shows it.
We shall find him almost sharing the life of brutes, or removed from them by innumerable differences,
and incalculable degrees. In one place we see him harbouring in caves, naked, living, we might
almost say, on prey, seeking from chance his wretched sustenance, food which he eats just as
he finds it. He lives like a beggar on the alms of nature. Turn to another land, and you see
the face of the earth covered with the works of his hand--his habitation, widespreading stately
cities--his clothing and the ornaments of his person culled and fashioned from the three kingdoms
of nature. For his food the face of the earth bears him tribute; and the seasons and changes
of heaven concur with his own art in ministering to his board. This is the difference which
man has made in his own condition by the use of his intellectual powers, awakened and goaded
on by the necessities of his physical constitution.

The various knowledge, the endlessly multiplied observation, the experience and reasonings
of man added to man, of generation following generation, which were required to bring to a
moderate state of advancement the great primary arts subservient to physical life--the arts
of providing food, habitation, clothing, and defence, we are utterly unable to conceive. We
are born to the knowledge which was collected by the labours of many ages. How slowly were
those arts reared up which still remain to us! How many which had laboriously been brought
to perfection, have been displaced by superior invention, and fallen into oblivion! Fenced
in as we are by the works of our predecessors, we see but a small part of the power of man
contending with the difficulties of his lot. But what a wonderful scene would be opened before
our eyes, with what intense interest should we look on, if we could indeed behold him armed
only with his own implanted powers, and going forth to conquer the creation! If we could see
him beginning by subduing evils, and supplying painful wants--going on to turn those evils
and wants into the means of enjoyment--and at length, in the wantonness and pride of his power,
filling his existence with luxuries;--if we could see him from his first step, in the untamed
though fruitful wilderness, advancing to subdue the soil, to tame and multiply the herds--from
bending the branches into a bower, to fell the forest and quarry the rock--seizing into his
own hands the element of fire, directing its action on substances got from the bowels of the
earth--fashioning wood, and stone, and metal, to the will of his thought--searching the nature
of plants to spin their fibres, or with their virtues to heal his diseases;--if we could see
him raise his first cities, launch his first ship, calling the winds and waters to be his servants,
and to do his work--changing the face of the earth--forming lakes and rivers--joining seas,
or stretching the continent itself into the dominion of the sea;--if we could do all this in
imagination, then should we understand something of what man's intellect has done for his physical
life, and what the necessities of his physical life have done in forcing into action all the
powers of his intelligence.

But there are still higher considerations arising from the influence of man's physical necessities
on the destiny of the species. It is this subjugation of natural evil, and this created dominion
of art, that prepares the earth to be the scene of his social existence. His hard conquest
was not the end of his toil. He has conquered the kingdom in which he was to dwell in his state.
The full unfolding of his moral powers was only possible in those states of society which are
thus brought into being by his conflict with all his physical faculties against all the stubborn
powers of the material universe; for out of the same conquest Wealth is created. In this progress,
and by means thus brought into action, society is divided into classes. Property itself, the
allotment of the earth, takes place, because it is the bosom of the earth that yields food.
That great foundation of the stability of communities is thus connected with the same necessity;
and in the same progress, and out of the same causes, arise the first great Laws by which society
is held together in order. Thus that whole wonderful development of the Moral Nature of man,
in all those various forms which fill up the history of the race, in part arises out of, and
is always intimately blended with, the labours to which he has been aroused by those first
great necessities of his physical nature. But had the tendency to increase his numbers been
out of all proportion to the means provided by nature, and infinitely multipliable by art,
for the subsistence of human beings, how could this magnificent march have moved on?

Hence we may understand on what ground the ancient nations revered so highly, and even deified,
the authors of the primary arts of life. They considered not the supply of the animal wants
merely; but they contemplated that mighty change in the condition of mankind to which these
arts have given origin. It is on this ground that they had raised the character of human life,
that Virgil assigns them their place in the dwellings of bliss, among devoted patriots and
holy priests, among those whom song or prophecy had inspired, among those benefactors of the
race whose names were to live for ever, giving his own most beautiful expression to the common
sentiment of mankind.

"That's Latin for the minister and the dominie." "Wheesht! Heard you ever the like o' that?
Though I dinna understand a word o't, it gars me a' grue." "Wheesht! wheesht!--we maun pit
him intil Paurliment"--"Rather intil the General Assembly, to tussle wi' the wild men." "He's
nae Moderate, man; and gin I'm no sair mistaen, he's a wild man himsel, and wull uphaud the
Veto." "Wheesht! wheesht! wheesht!"

True, that in savage life men starve. But is that any proof that nature has cursed the race
with a fatal tendency to multiply beyond the means of subsistence? None whatever. Attend for
a little to this point. Of the real power of the bodily appetites for food, and the sway they
may attain over the moral nature of the mind, we, who are protected by our place among the
arrangements of civil society from greatly suffering under it, can indeed form no adequate
conception. Let us not now speak of those dreadful enormities which, in the midst of dismal
famine, are recorded to have been perpetrated by civilised men, when the whole moral soul,
with all its strongest affections and instinctive abhorrences, has sunk prostrate under the
force of that animal suffering. But the power of which we speak, as attained by this animal
feeling, subsists habitually among whole tribes and nations. It is that power which it acquires
over the mind of the savage, who is frequently exposed to suffer its severity, and who hunts
for himself the food with which he is to appease it. Compare the mind of the human being as
you are accustomed to behold him, knowing the return of this sensation only as a grateful incitement
to take the ready nourishment which is spread for his repast, with that of his fellow-man bearing
through the lonely woods the gnawing pang that goads him to his prey. Hunger is in his heart;
hunger bears along his unfatiguing feet; hunger lies in the strength of his arm; hunger watches
in his eye; hunger listens in his ear; as he couches down in his covert, silently waiting the
approach of his expected spoil, this is the sole thought that fills his aching breast--"I shall
satisfy my hunger!" When his deadly aim has brought his victim to the ground, this is the thought
that springs up as he rushes to seize it, "I have got food for my hungry soul!" What must be
the usurpation of animal nature here over the whole man! It is not merely the simple pain,
as if it were the forlornness of a human creature bearing about his famishing existence in
helplessness and despair--though that, too, is indeed a true picture of some states of our
race; but here is not a suffering and sinking wretch--he is a strong hunter, and puts forth
his strength fiercely under the urgency of this passion. All his might in the chase--all pride
of speed, and strength, and skill--all thoughts of long and hard endurance--all images of perils
past--all remembrances and all foresight--are gathered on that one strong and keen desire--are
bound down to the sense of that one bitter animal want. These feelings recurring day by day
in the sole toil of his life, bring upon his soul a vehemence and power of desire in this object,
of which we can have no conception, till he becomes subjected to hunger as to a mighty animal
passion--a passion such as it rages in those fierce animal kinds which it drives with such
ferocity on their prey. He knows hunger as the wolf knows it--he goes forth with his burning
heart, like the tiger to lap blood. But turn to man in another condition to which he has been
brought by the very agency of his physical on his intellectual and moral being! How far removed
is he now from that daily contention with such evils as these! How much does he feel himself
assured against them by belonging to the great confederacy of social life! How much is it veiled
from his eyes by the many artificial circumstances in which the satisfaction of the want is
involved! The work in which he labours the whole day--on which his eyes are fixed and his hands
toil--is something altogether unconnected with his own wants--connected with distant wants
and purposes of a thousand other men in which he has no participation. And as far as it is
a work of skill, he has to fix his mind on objects and purposes so totally removed from himself,
that they all tend still more to sever his thoughts from his own necessities; and thus it is
that civilisation raises his moral character, when it protects almost every human being in
a country from that subjection to this passion, to which even noble tribes are bound down in
the wilderness of nature.

"It's an awfu' thing hunger, Hamish, sure aneuch; but I wush he was dune; for that vice o'
his sing-sangin is makin me unco sleepy--and ance I fa' owre, I'm no easy waukenin. But wha's
that snorin?"

Yet it is the most melancholy part of all such speculation, to observe what a wide gloom is
cast over them by this severe necessity, which is nevertheless the great and constant cause
of the improvement of their condition. It is not suffering alone--for that they may be inured
to bear,--but the darkness of the understanding, and the darkness of the heart, which comes
on under the oppression of toil, that is miserable to see. Our fellow-men, born with the same
spirit as ourselves, seem yet denied the common privileges of that spirit. They seem to bring
faculties into the world that cannot be unfolded, and powers of affection and desire which
not their fault but the lot of their birth will pervert and degrade. There is a humiliation
laid upon our nature in the doom which seems thus to rest upon a great portion of our species,
which, while it requires our most considerate compassion for those who are thus depressed,
compels us to humble ourselves under the sense of our own participation in the nature from
which it flows. Therefore, in estimating the worth, the virtue of our fellow-men, whom Providence
has placed in a lot that yields to them the means, and little more than the means, of supporting
life in themselves and those born of them, let us never forget how intimate is the necessary
union between the wants of the body and the thoughts of the soul. Let us remember, that over
a great portion of humanity the soul is in a struggle for its independence and power with the
necessities of that nature in which it is enveloped. It has to support itself against sickening,
or irritating, or maddening thoughts, inspired by weariness, lassitude, want, or the fear of
want. It is chained down to the earth by the influence of one great and constant occupation--that
of providing the means of its mortal existence. When it shows itself shook and agitated, or
overcome in the struggle, what ought to be the thoughts and feelings of the wise for poor humanity!
When, on the other hand, we see nature preserving itself pure, bold, and happy amidst the perpetual
threatenings or assaults of those evils from which it cannot fly, and though oppressed by its
own weary wants, forgetting them all in that love which ministers to the wants of others,--when
we see the brow wrinkled and drenched by incessant toil, the body in the power of its prime
bowed down to the dust, and the whole frame in which the immortal spirit abides marked, but
not dishonoured, by its slavery to fate,--and when, in the midst of all this ceaseless depression
and oppression, from which man must never hope to escape on earth, we see him still seeking
and still finding joy, delight, and happiness in the finer affections of his spiritual being,
giving to the lips of those he loves the scanty morsel earned by his own hungry and thirsty
toil, purchasing by sweat, sickness, and fever, Education and Instruction and Religion to the
young creatures who delight him who is starving for their sakes, resting with gratitude on
that day, whose return is ever like a fresh fountain to his exhausted and weary heart, and
preserving a profound and high sense of his own immortality among all the earth-born toils
and troubles that would in vain chain him down to the dust;--when we see all this, and think
of all this, we feel indeed how rich may be the poorest of the poor, and learn to respect the
moral being of man in its triumphs over the power of his physical nature. But we do not learn
to doubt or deny the wisdom of the Creator. We do not learn from all these struggles, and all
these defeats, and all these victories, and all these triumphs, that God sent us His creatures
into this life to starve, because the air, the earth, and the waters have not wherewithal to
feed the mouths that gape for food through all the elements! Nor do we learn that want is a
crime, and poverty a sin--and that they who would toil, but cannot, and they who can toil,
but have no work set before them, are intruders at Nature's table, and must be driven, by those
who are able to pay for their seats, to famine, starvation, and death--almost denied a burial!--Finis.
Amen.

Often has it been our lot, by our conversational powers to set the table on a snore. The more
stirring the theme, the more soporific the sound of our silver voice. Look there, we beseech
you! In a small spot of "stationary sunshine"--lie Hamish, and Surefoot, and O'Bronte, and
Ponto, and Piro, and Basta, all sound asleep! Dogs are troubled sleepers--but these four are
now like the dreamless dead. Horses, too, seem often to be witch-ridden in their sleep. But
at this moment Surefoot is stretched more like a stone than a shelty in the land of Nod. As
for Hamish, were he to lie so braxy-like by himself on the hill, he would be awakened by the
bill of the raven digging into his sockets. We are Morpheus and Orpheus in one incarnation--the
very Pink of Poppy--the true spirit of Opium--of Laudanum the concentrated Essence--of the
black Drop the Gnome.

Indeed, gentlemen, you have reason to be ashamed of yourselves--but where is the awkward squad?
Clean gone. They have stolen a march on us, and while we have been preaching they have been
poaching--sans mandate of the Marquess and Monzie. We may catch them ere close of day; and,
if they have a smell of slaughter, we shall crack their sconces with our Crutch. No apologies,
Hamish--'tis only making the matter worse; but we expected better things of the Dogs. O'Bronte!
fie! fie! sirrah. Your sire would not have fallen asleep during a speech of ours--and such
a speech!--he would have sat it out without winking--at each more splendid passage testifying
his delight by a yowl. Leap over the Crutch, you reprobate, and let us see thee scour. Look
at him, Hamish, already beckoning to us on his hurdies from the hill-top. Let us scale those
barriers--and away over the table-land between that summit and the head of Gleno. No sooner
said than done--and here we are on the level--such a level as the ship finds on the main sea,
when in the storm-lull she rides up and down the green swell, before the trade-winds that cool
the tropics. The surface of this main land-sea is black in the gloom, and green in the glimmer,
and purple in the light, and crimson in the sunshine. O, never looks Nature so magnificent

    "As in this varying and uncertain weather,
    When gloom and glory force themselves together,
    When calm seems stormy, and tempestuous light
    At day's meridian lowers like noon of night!"

Whose are these fine lines? Hooky Walker, OUR OWN. Dogs! Down--down--down--be stonelike, O
Shelty!--and Hamish, sink thou into the heather like a lizard; for if these old dim eyes of
ours may be in aught believed, yonder by the birches stands a Red-Deer snuffing the east wind!
Hush! hush! hush! He suspects an enemy in that airt--but death comes upon him with stealthy
foot, from the west; and if Apollo and Diana--the divinities we so long have worshipped--be
now propitious, his antlers shall be entangled in the heather, and his hoofs beat the heavens.
Hamish, the rifle! A tinkle as of iron, and a hiss accompanying the explosion--and the King
of the Wilderness, bounding up into the air with his antlers higher than ever waved chieftain's
plume, falls down stone-dead where he stood; for the blue-pill has gone through his vitals,
and lightning itself could hardly have withered him into more instantaneous cessation of life!

He is an enormous animal. What antlers! Roll him over, Hamish, on his side! See, up to our
breast, nearly, reaches the topmost branch. He is what the hunter of old called a "Stag of
Ten." His eye has lost the flash of freedom--the tongue that browsed the brushwood is bitten
through by the clenched teeth--the fleetness of his feet has felt that fatal frost--the wild
heart is hushed, Hamish--tame, tame, tame; and there the Monarch of the Mountains--the King
of the Cliffs--the Grand Llama of the Glens--the Sultan of the Solitudes--the Dey of the Deserts--the
Royal Ranger of the Woods and Forests--yea, the very Prince of the Air and Thane of Thunder--"shorn
of all his beams," lies motionless as a dead Jackass by the wayside, whose hide was not thought
worth the trouble of flaying by his owners the gypsies! "To this complexion has he come at
last"--he who at dawn had borrowed the wings of the wind to carry him across the cataracts!

A sudden pang shoots across our heart. What right had we to commit this murder? How, henceforth,
shall we dare to hold up our head among the lovers of liberty, after having thus stolen basely
from behind on him, the boldest, brightest, and most beautiful of all her sons! We, who for
so many years have been just able to hobble, and no more, by aid of the Crutch--who feared
to let the heather-bent touch our toe, so sensitive in its gout--We, the old and impotent,
all last winter bed-ridden, and even now seated like a lameter on a shelty, strapped by a patent
buckle to a saddle provided with a pummel behind as well as before--such an unwieldy and weary
wretch as We--"fat, and scant of breath"--and with our hand almost perpetually pressed against
our left side, when a coughing-fit of asthma brings back the stitch, seldom an absentee--to
assassinate THAT RED-DEER, whose flight on earth could accompany the eagles in heaven; and
not only to assassinate him, but, in a moral vein, to liken his carcass to that of a Jackass!
It will not bear further reflection; so, Hamish, out with your whinger, and carve him a dish
fit for the gods--in a style worthy of Sir Tristrem, Gill Morice, Robin Hood, or Lord Ranald.
No; let him lie till nightfall, when we shall be returning from Inveraw with strength sufficient
to bear him to the Tent.

But hark, Hamish, to that sullen croak from the cliff! The old raven of the cove already scents
death--

    "Sagacious of his quarry from afar!"

But where art thou, Hamish? Ay, yonder is Hamish, wriggling on his very belly, like an adder,
through the heather to windward of the croaker, whose nostrils, and eyes, and bill, are now
all hungrily fascinated, and as it were already fastened into the very bowels of the beast.
His days are numbered. That sly serpent, by circuitous windings insinuating his limber length
through among all obstructions, has ascended unseen the drooping shoulder of the cliff, and
now cautiously erects his crest within a hundred yards or more of the unsuspecting savage,
still uttering at intervals his sullen croak, croak, croak! Something crumbles, and old Sooty,
unfolding his huge wings, lifts himself up like Satan, about to sail away for a while into
another glen; but the rifle rings among the rocks--the lead has broken his spine--and look!
how the demon, head-over-heels, goes tumbling down, down, down, many hundred fathoms, dashed
to pieces and impaled on the sharp-pointed granite! Ere nightfall the bloody fragments will
be devoured by his mate. Nothing now will disturb the carcass of the deer. No corbies dare
enter the cove where the raven reigned; the hawk prefers grouse to venison, and so does the
eagle, who, however, like a good Catholic as he is--this is Friday--has gone out to sea for
a fish dinner, which he devours to the music of the waves on some isle-rock. Therefore lie
there, dethroned king! till thou art decapitated; and ere the moon wanes, that haunch will
tower gloriously on our Tent-table at the Feast of Shells.

What is your private opinion, O'Bronte, of the taste of Red-deer blood? Has it not a wild twang
on the tongue and palate, far preferable to sheep's-head? You are absolutely undergoing transfiguration
into a deer-hound! With your fore-paws on the flank, your tail brandished like a standard,
and your crimson flews (thank you, Shepherd, for that word) licked by a long lambent tongue
red as crimson, while your eyes express a fierce delight never felt before, and a stifled growl
disturbs the star on your breast--just as you stand now, O'Bronte, might Edwin Landseer rejoice
to paint thy picture, for which, immortal image of the wilderness, the Duke of Bedford would
not scruple to give a draft on his banker for one thousand pounds!

Shooting grouse after red-deer is, for a while at first, felt to be like writing an anagram
in a lady's album, after having given the finishing-touch to a tragedy or an epic poem. 'Tis
like taking to catching shrimps in the sand with one's toes, on one's return from Davis' Straits
in a whaler that arrived at Peterhead with sixteen fish, each calculated at ten tun of oil.
Yet, 'tis strange how the human soul can descend, pleasantly at every note, from the top to
the bottom of passion's and imagination's gamut.

A Tarn--a Tarn! with but a small circle of unbroken water in the centre, and all the rest of
its shallowness bristling, in every bay, with reeds and rushes, and surrounded, all about the
mossy flat, with marshes and quagmires! What a breeding-place--"procreant cradle" for water-fowl!
Now comes thy turn, O'Bronte--for famous is thy name, almost as thy sire's, among the flappers.
Crawl down to leeward, Hamish, that you may pepper them--should they take to flight overhead
to the loch. Surefoot, taste that greensward, and you will find it sweet and succulent. Dogs,
heel--heel!--and now let us steal, on our Crutch, behind that knoll, and open a sudden fire
on the swimmers, who seem to think themselves out of shot at the edge of that line of water-lilies;
but some of them will soon find themselves mistaken, whirling round on their backs, and vainly
endeavouring to dive after their friends that disappear beneath the agitated surface shot-swept
into spray. Long Gun! who oft to the forefinger of Colonel Hawker has swept the night-harbour
of Poole all alive with widgeons, be true to the trust now reposed in thee by Kit North! And
though these be neither geese, nor swans, nor hoopers, yet send thy leaden shower among them
feeding in their play, till all the air be afloat with specks, as if at the shaking of a feather-bed
that had burst the ticking, and the tarn covered with sprawling mawsies and mallards, in death-throes
among the ducklings! There it lies on its rest--like a telescope. No eye has discovered the
invention--keen as those wild eyes are of the plouterers on the shallows. Lightning and thunder!
to which all the echoes roar. But we meanwhile are on our back; for of all the recoils that
ever shook a shoulder, that one was the severest--but 'twill probably cure our rheumatism and----Well
done--nobly, gloriously done, O'Bronte! Heaven and earth, how otter-like he swims! Ha, Hamish!
you have cut off the retreat of that airy voyager--you have given it him in his stern, Hamish--and
are reloading for the flappers. One at a time in your mouth, O'Bronte! Put about with that
tail for a rudder--and make for the shore. What a stately creature! as he comes issuing from
the shallows, and bearing the old mallard breast-high, walks all dripping along the greensward,
and then shakes from his curled ebony the flashing spray-mist. He gives us one look as we crown
the knoll, and then in again with a spang and a plunge far into the tarn, caring no more for
the reeds than for so many windle-straes, and, fast as a sea-serpent, is among the heart of
the killed and wounded. In unerring instinct he always seizes the dead--and now a devil's dozen
lie along the shore. Come hither, O'Bronte, and caress thy old master. Ay--that showed a fine
feeling--did that long shake that bedrizzled the sunshine. Put thy paws over our shoulders,
and round our neck, true son of thy sire--oh! that he were but alive, to see and share thy
achievements: but indeed, two such dogs, living together in their prime at one era, would have
been too great glory for this sublunary canine world. Therefore Sirius looked on thy sire with
an evil eye, and in jealousy--

    "Tantæne animis cælestibus iræ!"

growled upon some sinner to poison the Dog of all Dogs, who leapt up almost to the ceiling
of the room where he slept--our own bedroom--under the agony of that accursed arsenic, gave
one horrid howl, and expired. Methinka we know his murderer--his eye falls when it meets ours
on the Street of Princes; and let him scowl there but seldom--for though 'tis but suspicion,
this fist, O'Bronte, doubles at the sight of the miscreant--and some day, impelled by wrath
and disgust, it will smash his nose flat with the other features, till his face is a pancake.
Yea! as sure as Themis holds her balance in the skies, shall the poisoner be punished out of
all recognition by his parents, and be disowned by the Irish Cockney father that begot him,
and the Scotch Cockney mother that bore him, as he carries home a tripe-like countenance enough
to make his paramour the scullion miscarry, as she opens the door to him on the fifth flat
of a common stair. But we are getting personal, O'Bronte, a vice abhorrent from our nature.

There goes our Crutch, Hamish, whirling aloft in the sky like a rainbow flight, even like the
ten-pound hammer from the fling of George Scougal at the St Ronans games. Our gout is gone--so
is our asthma--eke our rheumatism--and, like an eagle, we have renewed our youth. There is
hop, step, and jump, for you, Hamish--we should not fear, young and agile as you are, buck,
to give you a yard. But now for the flappers. Pointers all, stir your stumps and into the water.
This is rich. Why, the reeds are as full of flappers as of frogs. If they can fly, the fools
don't know it. Why, there is a whole musquito-fleet of yellow boys, not a month old. What a
prolific old lady must she have been, to have kept on breeding till July. There she sits, cowering,
just on the edge of the reeds, uncertain whether to dive or fly. By the creak and cry of the
cradle of thy first-born, Hamish, spare the plumage on her yearning and quaking breast. The
little yellow images have all melted away, and are now, in holy cunning of instinct, deep down
beneath the waters, shifting for themselves among the very mud at the bottom of the reeds.
By-and-by they will be floating with but the points of their bills above the surface, invisible
among the air-bells. The parent duck has also disappeared; the drake you disposed of, Hamish,
as the coward was lifting up his lumbering body, with fat doup and long neck in the air, to
seek safer skies. We male creatures--drakes, ganders, and men alike--what are we, when affection
pleads, in comparison with females! In our passions, we are brave, but these satiated, we turn
upon our heel and disappear from danger, like dastards. But doves, and ducks, and women, are
fearless in affection to the very death. Therefore have we all our days, sleeping or waking,
loved the sex, virgin and matron; nor would we hurt a hair of their heads, grey or golden,
for all else that shines beneath the sun.

Not the best practice this in the world, certainly, for pointers--and it may teach them bad
habits on the hill; but, in some situations, all dogs and all men are alike, and cross them
as you will, not a breed but shows a taint of original sin, when under a temptation sufficiently
strong to bring it out. Ponto, Piro, and Basta, are now, according to their abilities, all
as bad as O'Bronte--and never, to be sure, was there such a worrying in this wicked world.
But now we shall cease our fire, and leave the few flappers that are left alive to their own
meditations. Our conduct for the last hour must have seemed to them no less unaccountable than
alarming, and something to quack over during the rest of the season. Well, we do not remember
ever to have seen a prettier pile of ducks and ducklings. Hamish, take census. What do you
say--two score? That beats cockfighting. Here's a hank of twine, Hamish, tie them altogether
by the legs, and hang them, in two divisions of equal weights, over the crupper of Surefoot.

THE MOORS.

FLIGHT THIRD--STILL LIFE.

We have been sufficiently slaughterous for a man of our fine sensibilities and moderate desires,
Hamish; and as, somehow or other, the scent seems to be beginning not to lie well--yet the
air cannot be said to be close and sultry either--we shall let Brown Bess cool herself in both
barrels--relinquish, for an hour or so, our seat on Shelty, and, by way of a change, pad the
hoof up that smooth ascent, strangely left stoneless--an avenue positively looking as if it
were artificial, as it stretches away, with its beautiful green undulations, among the blocks;
for though no view-hunter, we are, Hamish, what in fine language is called a devout worshipper
of Nature, an enthusiast in the sublime; and if Nature do not show us something worth gazing
at when we reach yonder altitudes, she must be a grey deceiver, and we shall never again kneel
at her footstool, or sing a hymn in her praise.

The truth is, we have a rending headache, for Bess has been for some hours on the kick, and
Surefoot on the jog, and our exertions in the pulpit were severe--action, Hamish, action, action,
being, as Demosthenes said some two or three thousand years ago, essential to oratory; and
you observed how nimbly we kept changing legs, Hamish, how strenuously brandishing arms, throughout
our discourse--saving the cunning pauses, thou simpleton, when, by way of relief to our auditors,
we were as gentle as sucking-doves, and folded up our wings as if about to go to roost, whereas
we were but meditating a bolder flight--about to soar, Hamish, into the empyrean. Over and
above all that, we could not brook Tickler's insolence, who, about the sma' hours, challenged
us, you know, quaich for quaich; and though we gave him a fair back-fall, yet we suffered in
the tulzie, and there is at this moment a throbbing in our temples that threatens a regular
brain-fever. We burn for an air-bath on the mountain-top. Moreover, we are seized with a sudden
desire for solitude--to be plain, we are getting sulky; so ascend, Surefoot, Hamish, and be
off with the pointers--O'Bronte goes with us--north-west, making a circumbendibus round the
Tomhans, where Mhairhe M'Intyre lived seven years with the fairies; and in a couple of hours
or so you will find us under the Merlin Crag.

We offer to walk any man of our age in Great Britain. But what is our age? Confound us if we
know within a score or two. Yet we cannot get rid of the impression that we are under ninety.
However, as we seek no advantage, and give no odds, we challenge the octogenarians of the United
Kingdom--fair toe and heel--a twelve-hour match--for love, fame, and a legitimate exchequer
bill for a thousand. Why, these calves of ours would look queer, we confess, on the legs of
a Leith porter; but even in our prime they were none of your big vulgar calves, but they handled
like iron--now more like butter. There is still a spring in our instep; and our knees, sometimes
shaky, are to-day knit as Pan's and neat as Apollo's. Poet we may not be, but Pedestrian we
are; with Wordsworth we could not walk along imaginative heights, but, if not grievously out
of our reckoning; on the turnpike road we could keep pace with Captain Barclay for a short
distance--say from Dundee to Aberdeen.

Oh! Gemini! but we are in high spirits. Yes--delights there indeed are, which none but pedestrians
know. Much--all depends on the character of the wanderer; he must have known what it is to
commune with his own thoughts and feelings, and be satisfied with them even as with the converse
of a chosen friend. Not that he must always, in the solitudes that await him, be in a meditative
mood, for ideas and emotions will of themselves arise, and he will only have to enjoy the pleasures
which his own being spontaneously affords. It would indeed be a hopeless thing, if we were
always to be on the stretch for happiness. Intellect, Imagination, and Feeling, all work of
their own free-will, and not at the order of any taskmaster. A rill soon becomes a stream--a
stream a river--a river a loch--and a loch a sea. So it is with the current within the spirit.
It carries us along, without either oar or sail, increasing in depth, breadth, and swiftness,
yet all the while the easy work of our own wonderful minds. While we seem only to see or hear,
we are thinking and feeling far beyond the mere notices given by the senses; and years afterwards
we find that we have been laying up treasures, in our most heedless moments, of imagery, and
connecting together trains of thought that arise in startling beauty, almost without cause
or any traceable origin. The Pedestrian, too, must not only love his own society, but the society
of any other human beings, if blameless and not impure, among whom his lot may for a short
season be cast. He must rejoice in all the forms and shows of life, however simple they may
be, however humble, however low; and be able to find food for his thoughts beside the ingle
of the loneliest hut, where the inmates sit with few words, and will rather be spoken to than
speak to the stranger. In such places he will be delighted--perhaps surprised--to find in uncorrupted
strength all the primary elements of human character. He will find that his knowledge may be
wider than theirs, and better ordered, but that it rests on the same foundation, and comprehends
the same matter. There will be no want of sympathies between him and them; and what he knows
best, and loves most, will seldom fail to be that also which they listen to with greatest interest,
and respecting which there is the closest communion between the minds of stranger and host.
He may know the courses of the stars according to the revelation of science--they may have
studied them only as simple shepherds, "whose hearts were gladdened" walking on the mountain-top.
But they know--as he does--who sowed the stars in heaven, and that their silent courses are
all adjusted by the hand of the Most High.

Oh! blessed, thrice blessed years of youth! would we choose to live over again all your forgotten
and unforgotten nights and days! Blessed, thrice blessed we call you, although, as we then
felt, often darkened almost into insanity by self-sown sorrows springing out of our restless
soul. No, we would not again face such troubles, not even for the glorious apparitions that
familiarly haunted us in glens and forests, on mountains and on the great sea. But all, or
nearly all, that did once so grievously disturb, we can lay in the depths of the past, so that
scarcely a ghastly voice is heard, a ghastly face beheld; while all that so charmed of yore,
or nearly all, although no longer the daily companions of our life, still survive to be recalled
at solemn hours, and with a "beauty still more beauteous" to reinvest the earth, which neither
sin nor sorrow can rob of its enchantments. We can still travel with the solitary mountain-stream
from its source to the sea, and see new visions at every vista of its winding waters. The waterfall
flows not with its own monotonous voice of a day or an hour, but like a choral anthem pealing
with the hymns of many years. In the heart of the blind mist on the mountain-ranges we can
now sit alone, surrounded by a world of images, over which time holds no power but to consecrate
or solemnise. Solitude we can deepen by a single volition, and by a single volition let in
upon it the stir and noise of the world and life. Why, therefore, should we complain, or why
lament the inevitable loss or change that time brings with it to all that breathe? Beneath
the shadow of the tree we can yet repose, and tranquillise our spirit by its rustle, or by
the "green light" uncheckered by one stirring leaf. From sunrise to sunset, we can lie below
the old mossy tower, till the darkness that shuts out the day, hides not the visions that glide
round the ruined battlements. Cheerful as in a city can we traverse the houseless moor; and
although not a ship be on the sea, we can set sail on the wings of imagination, and when wearied,
sink down on savage or serene isle, and let drop our anchor below the moon and stars.

And 'tis well we are so spiritual; for the senses are of no use here, and we must draw for
amusement on our internal sources. A day-like night we have often seen about midsummer, serenest
of all among the Hebrides; but a night-like day, such as this, ne'er before fell on us, and
we might as well be in the Heart o' Mid-Lothian. 'Tis a dungeon, and a dark one--and we know
not for what crime we have been condemned to solitary confinement. Were it mere mist we should
not mind; but the gloom is palpable, and makes resistance to the hand. We did not think clouds
capable of such condensation--the blackness may be felt like velvet on a hearse. Would that
something would rustle--but no--all is breathlessly still, and not a wind dares whistle. If
there be anything visible or audible hereabout, then are we stone-blind and stone-deaf. We
have a vision!

See! a great City in a mist! All is not shrouded--at intervals something huge is beheld in
the sky--what we know not, tower, temple, spire, dome, or a pile of nameless structures--one
after the other fading away, or sinking and settling down into the gloom that grows deeper
and deeper like a night. The stream of life seems almost hushed in the blind blank, yet you
hear ever and anon, now here, now there, the slow sound of feet moving to their own dull echoes,
and lo! the Sun

    "Looks through the horizontal misty air,
    Shorn of his beams,"

like some great ghost. Ay, he looks! does he not? straight on your face, as if you two were
the only beings there--and were held looking at each other in some strange communion. Surely
you must sometimes have felt that emotion, when the Luminary seemed no longer luminous, but
a dull-red brazen orb, sick unto the death--obscure the Shedder of Light and the Giver of Life
lifeless!

The Sea has sent a tide-borne wind to the City, and you almost start in wonder to behold all
the heavens clear of clouds (how beautiful was the clearing!) and bending in a mighty blue
bow, that brightly overarches all the brightened habitations of men! The spires shoot up into
the sky--the domes tranquilly rest there--all the roofs glitter as with diamonds, all the white
walls are lustrous, save where, here and there, some loftier range of buildings hangs its steadfast
shadow o'er square or street, magnifying the city, by means of separate multitudes of structures,
each town-like in itself, and the whole gathered together by the outward eye, and the inward
imagination, worthy indeed of the name of Metropolis.

Let us sit down on this bench below the shadow of the Parthenon. The air is now so rarified,
that you can see not indistinctly the figure of a man on Arthur's Seat. The Calton, though
a city hill, is as green as the Carter towering over the Border-forest. Not many years ago,
no stone edifice was on his unviolated verdure--he was a true rural Mount, where the lassies
bleached their claes, in a pure atmosphere, aloof from the city smoke almost as the sides and
summit of Arthur's Seat. Flocks of sheep might have grazed here, had there been enclosures,
and many milch cows. But in their absence a pastoral character was given to the Hill by its
green silence, here and there broken by the songs and laughter of those linen-bleaching lassies,
and by the arm-in-arm strolling of lovers in the morning light or the evening shade. Here married
people used to walk with their children, thinking and feeling themselves to be in the country;
and here elderly gentlemen, like ourselves, with gold-headed canes or simple crutches, mused
and meditated on the ongoings of the noisy lower world. Such a Hill, so close to a great City,
yet undisturbed by it, and imbued at all times with a feeling of sweeter peace, because of
the immediate neighbourhood of the din and stir of which its green recess high up in the blue
air never partook, seems now, in the mingled dream of imagination and memory, to have been
a super-urban Paradise! But a city cannot, ought not to be, controlled in its growth; the natural
beauty of this hill has had its day; now it is broken all round with wide walks, along which
you might drive chariots abreast; broad flights of stone-stairs lead up along the once elastic
brae-turf; and its bosom is laden with towers and temples, monuments and mausoleums. Along
one side, where hanging gardens might have been, magnificent as those of the old Babylon, stretches
the macadamised Royal Road to London, flanked by one receptacle for the quiet dead, and by
another for the unquiet living--a churchyard and a prison dying away in a bridewell. But, making
amends for such hideous deformities, with front nobly looking to the cliffs, over a dell of
dwellings seen dimly through the smoke-mist, stands, sacred to the Muses, an Edifice that might
have pleased the eye of Pericles! Alas, immediately below one that would have turned the brain
of Palladio! Modern Athens indeed! Few are the Grecians among thy architects; those who are
not Goths are Picts--and the King himself of the Painted People designed Nelson's Monument.

But who can be querulous on such a day? Weigh all its defects, designed and undesigned, and
is not Edinburgh yet a noble city? Arthur's Seat! how like a lion! The magnificent range of
Salisbury Crags, on which a battery might be built to blow the whole inhabitation to atoms!
Our friend here, the Calton, with his mural crown! Our Castle on his Cliff! gloriously hung
round with national histories along all his battlements! Do they not embosom him in a style
of grandeur worthy, if such it be, of a "City of Palaces?" Call all things by their right names,
in heaven and on earth. Palaces they are not--nor are they built of marble; but they are stately
houses, framed of stone from Craig-Leith quarry, almost as pale as the Parian; and when the
sun looks fitfully through the storm, or as now, serenely through the calm, richer than Parian
in the tempestuous or the peaceful light. Never beheld we the city wearing such a majestic
metropolitan aspect.

    "Ay, proudly fling thy white arms to the sea,
    Queen of the unconquer'd North!"

How near the Firth! Gloriously does it supply the want of a river. It is a river, though seeming,
and sweeping into, the sea; but a river that man may never bridge; and though still now as
the sky, we wish you saw it in its magnificent madness, when brought on the roarings of the
stormful tide

    "Breaks the long wave that at the Pole began."

Coast-cities alone are Queens. All inland are but Tributaries. Earth's empiry belongs to the
Power that sees its shadow in the sea. Two separate Cities, not twins--but one of ancient and
one of modern birth--how harmoniously, in spite of form and features characteristically different,
do they coalesce into one Capital! This miracle, methinks, is wrought by the Spirit of Nature
on the World of Art. Her great features subdue almost into similarity a Whole constructed of
such various elements, for it is all felt to be kindred with those guardian cliffs. Those eternal
heights hold the Double City together in an amity that breathes over both the same national
look--the impression of the same national soul. In the olden time, the city gathered herself
almost under the very wing of the Castle; for in her heroic heart she ever heard, unalarmed
but watchful, the alarums of war, and that cliff, under heaven, was on earth the rock of her
salvation. But now the foundation of that rock, whence yet the tranquil burgher hears the morning
and the evening bugle, is beautified by gardens that love its pensive shadow, for it tames
the light to flowers by rude feet untrodden, and yielding garlands for the brows of perpetual
peace. Thence elegance and grace arose; and while antiquity breathes over that wilderness of
antique structures picturesquely huddled along the blue line of sky--as Wilkie once finely
said, like the spine of some enormous animal; yet all along this side of that unrivered and
mound-divided dell, now shines a new world of radiant dwellings, declaring by their regular
but not monotonous magnificence, that the same people, whose "perfervid genius" preserved them
by war unhumbled among the nations in days of darkness, have now drawn a strength as invincible
from the beautiful arts which have been cultivated by peace in the days of light.

And is the spirit of the inhabitation there worthy of the place inhabited? We are a Scotsman.
And the great English Moralist has asked, where may a Scotsman be found who loves not the honour
or the glory of his country better than truth? We are that Scotsman--though for our country
would we die. Yet dearer too than life is to us the honour--if not the glory of our country;
and had we a thousand lives, proudly would we lay them all down in the dust rather than give--or
see given--one single stain

    "Unto the silver cross, to Scotland dear,"

on which as yet no stain appears save those glorious weather-stains, that have fallen on its
folds from the clouds of war and the storms of battle. Sufficient praise to the spirit of our
land, that she knows how to love, admire, and rival--not in vain--the spirit of high-hearted
and heroic England. Long as we and that other noble Isle

    "Set as an emerald in the casing sea,"

in triple union breathe as one,

    "Then come against us the whole world in arms,
    And we will meet them!"

What is a people without pride? But let them know that its root rests on noble pillars; and
in the whole range of strength and stateliness, what pillars are there stronger and statelier
than those glorious two--Genius and Liberty? Here valour has fought--here philosophy has meditated--here
poetry has sung. Are not our living yet as brave as our dead? All wisdom has not perished with
the sages to whom we have built or are building monumental tombs. The muses yet love to breathe
the pure mountain-air of Caledon. And have we not amongst us one myriad-minded man, whose name,
without offence to that high-priest of nature, or his devoutest worshippers, may flow from
our lips even when they utter that of SHAKESPEARE?

The Queen of the North has evaporated--and we again have a glimpse of the Highlands. But where's
the Sun? We know not in what airt to look for him, for who knows but it may now be afternoon?
It is almost dark enough for evening--and if it be not far on in the day, then we shall have
thunder. What saith our repeater? One o'clock. Usually the brightest hour of all the twelve--but
anything but bright at this moment. Can there be an eclipse going on--an earthquake at his
toilette--or merely a brewing of storm? Let us consult our almanac. No eclipse set down for
to-day--the old earthquake dwells in the neighbourhood of Comrie, and has never been known
to journey thus far north--besides, he has for some years been bed-ridden; argal, there is
about to be a storm. What a fool of a land-tortoise were we to crawl up to the top of a mountain,
when we might have taken our choice of half-a-dozen glens with cottages in them every other
mile, and a village at the end of each with a comfortable Change-house! And up which of its
sides, pray, was it that we crawled? Not this one--for it is as steep as a church--and we never
in our life peeped over the brink of an uglier abyss. Ay, Mister Merlin, 'tis wise of you to
be flying home into your crevice--put your head below your wing, and do cease that cry.--Croak!
croak! croak! Where is the sooty sinner? We hear he is on the wing--but he either sees or smells
us, probably both, and the horrid gurgle in his throat is choked by some cloud. Surely that
was the sughing of wings! A Bird! alighting within fifty yards of us--and, from his mode of
folding his wings--an Eagle! This is too much--within fifty yards of an Eagle on his own mountain-top.
Is he blind? Age darkens even an Eagle's eyes--but he is not old, for his plumage is perfect--and
we see the glare of his far-keekers as he turns his head over his shoulder and regards his
eyrie on the cliff. We would not shoot him for a thousand a-year for life. Not old--how do
we know that? Because he is a creature who is young at a hundred--so says Audubon--Swainson--our
brother James--and all shepherds. Little suspects he who is lying so near him with his Crutch.
Our snuffy suit is of a colour with the storm-stained granite--and if he walk this way he will
get a buffet. And he is walking this way--his head up, and his tail down,--not hopping like
a filthy raven--but one foot before the other--like a man--like a King. We do not altogether
like it--it is rather alarming--he may not be an Eagle after all--but something worse--"Hurra!
ye Sky-scraper! Christopher is upon you! take that, and that, and that"--all one tumbling scream,
there he goes, Crutch and all, over the edge of the Cliff. Dashed to death--but impossible
for us to get the body. Whew! dashed to death indeed! There he wheels, all on fire, round the
thunder gloom. Is it electric matter in the atmosphere--or fear and wrath that illumine his wings?

We wish we were safe down. There is no wind here yet--none to speak of; but there is wind enough,
to all appearance, in the region towards the west. The main body of the clouds is falling back
on the reserve--and observing that movement the right wing deploys; as for the left, it is
broken, and its retreat will soon be a flight. Fear is contagious--the whole army has fallen
into irremediable disorder--has abandoned its commanding position--and in an hour will be self-driven
into the sea. We call that a Panic.

Glory be to the corps that covers the retreat. We see now the cause of that retrograde movement.
In the north-west, "far off its coming shone," and "in numbers without number numberless,"
lo! the adverse Host! Thrown out in front, the beautiful rifle brigade comes fleetly on, extending
in open order along the vast plain between the aerial Pine-mountains to yon Fire-cliffs. The
enemy marches in masses--the space between the divisions now widening and now narrowing--and
as sure as we are alive we hear the sound of trumpets. The routed army has rallied and reappears--and,
hark, on the extreme left a cannonade. Never before had the Unholy Alliance a finer park of
artillery--and now its fire opens from the great battery in the centre, and the hurly-burly
is general far and wide over the whole field of battle.

But these lead drops dancing on our bonnet tell us to take up our crutch and be off--for there
it is sticking--by-and-by the waters will be in flood, and we may have to pass a night on the
mountain. Down we go.

We do not call this the same side of the mountain we crawled up? There, all was purple except
what was green--and we were happy to be a heather-legged body, occasionally skipping like a
grasshopper on turf. Here, all rocks save stones. Get out of the way, ye ptarmigans. We hate
shingle from the bottom of our ---- oh dear! oh dear! but this is painful--sliddering on shingle
away down what is anything but an inclined plane--feet foremost--accompanied with rattling
debris--at railroad speed--every twenty yards or so dislodging a stone as big as oneself, who
instantly joins the procession, and there they go hopping and jumping along with us, some before,
some at each side, and, we shudder to think of it, some behind--well somersetted over our head,
thou Grey Wackè--but mercy on us, and forgive us our sins, for if this lasts, in another minute
we are all at the bottom of that pond of pitch. Take care of yourself, O'Bronte!

Here we are--sitting! How we were brought to assume this rather uneasy posture we do not pretend
to say. We confine ourselves to the fact. Sitting beside a Tarn. Our escape appears to have
been little less than miraculous, and must have been mainly owing, under Providence, to the
Crutch. Who's laughing? 'Tis you, you old Witch, in hood and cloak, crouching on the cliff
as if you were warming your hands at the fire. Hold your tongue--and you may sit there to all
eternity if you choose--you cloud-ridden hag! No--there will be a blow-up some day--as there
evidently has been here before now; but no more Geology--from the tarn, who is a 'tarnation
deep 'un, runs a rill, and he offers to be our guide down to the Low Country.

Why, this does not look like the same day. No gloom here, but a green serenity--not so poetical
perhaps, but, in a human light, far preferable to a "brown horror." No sulphureous smell--"the
air is balm." No sultriness--how cool the circulating medium! In our youth, when we had wings
on our feet, and were a feathered Mercury--Cherub we never were nor Cauliflower--by flying,
in our weather-wisdom, from glen to glen, we have made one day a whole week--with, at the end,
a Sabbath. For all over the really mountaineous region of the Highlands, every glen has its
own indescribable kind of day--all vaguely comprehended under the One Day that may happen to
be uppermost; and Lowland meteorologists, meeting in the evening after a long absence--having,
perhaps, parted that morning--on comparing notes lose their temper, and have been even known
to proceed to extremities in defence of facts well established of a most contradictory and
irreconcilable nature.

Here is an angler fishing with the fly. In the glen beyond that range he would have used the
minnow--and in the huge hollow behind our friends to the South-east, he might just as well
try the bare hook--though it is not universally true that trouts don't rise when there is thunder.
Let us see how he throws. What a cable! Flies! Tufts of heather. Hollo, you there; friend,
what sport? What sport we say? No answer; are you deaf? Dumb? He flourishes his flail and is
mute. Let us try what a whack on the back may elicit. Down he flings it, and staring on us
with a pair of most extraordinary eyes, and a beard like a goat, is off like a shot. Alas!
we have frightened the wretch out of his few poor wits, and he may kill himself among the rocks.
He is indeed an idiot--an innocent. We remember seeing him near this very spot forty years
ago--and he was not young then--they often live to extreme old age. No wonder he was terrified--for
we are duly sensible of the outre tout ensemble we must have suddenly exhibited in the glimmer
that visits those weak red eyes--he is an albino. That whack was rash, to say the least of
it--our Crutch was too much for him; but we hear him whining--and moaning--and, good God! there
he is on his knees with hands clasped in supplication--"Dinna kill me--dinna kill me--'am silly--'am
silly--and folk say 'am auld--auld--auld." The harmless creature is convinced we are not going
to kill him--takes from our hand what he calls his fishing-rod and tackle--and laughs like
an owl. "Ony meat--ony meat--ony meat?" "Yes, innocent, there is some meat in this wallet,
and you and we shall have our dinner." "Ho! ho! ho! ho! a smelled, a smelled! a can say the
Lord's Prayer." "What's your name, my man?" "Daft Dooggy the Haveril." "Sit down, Dugald."
A sad mystery all this--a drop of water on the brain will do it--so wise physicians say, and
we believe it. For all that, the brain is not the soul. He takes the food with a kind of howl--and
carries it away to some distance, muttering "a aye eats by mysel!" He is saying grace! And
now he is eating like an animal. 'Tis a saying of old, "Their lives are hidden with God!"

This lovely little glen is almost altogether new to us: yet so congenial its quiet to the longings
of our heart, that all at once it is familiar to us as if we had sojourned here for days--as
if that cottage were our dwelling-place--and we had retired hither to await the close. Were
we never here before--in the olden and golden time? Those dips in the summits of the mountain
seem to recall from oblivion memories of a morning all the same as this, enjoyed by us with
a different joy, almost as if then we were a different being, joy then the very element in
which we drew our breath, satisfied now to live in the atmosphere of sadness often thickened
with grief. 'Tis thus that there grows a confusion among the past times in the dormitory--call
it not the burial-place--overshadowed by sweet or solemn imagery--in the inland regions; nor
can we question the recollections as they rise--being ghosts, they are silent--their coming
and their going alike a mystery--but sometimes--as now--they are happy hauntings--and age is
almost gladdened into illusion of returning youth.

'Tis a lovely little glen as in all the Highlands--yet we know not that a painter would see
in it the subject of a picture--for the sprinklings of young trees have been sown capriciously
by nature, and there seems no reason why on that hill-side, and not on any other, should survive
the remains of an old wood. Among the multitude of knolls a few are eminent with rocks and
shrubs, but there is no central assemblage, and the green wilderness wantons in such disorder
that you might believe the pools there to be, not belonging as they are to the same running
water, but each itself a small separate lakelet fed by its own spring. True, that above its
homehills there are mountains--and these are cliffs on which the eagle might not disdain to
build--but the range wheels away in its grandeur to face a loftier region, of which we see
here but the summits swimming in the distant clouds.

God bless that hut! and have its inmates in His holy keeping! But what Fairy is this coming
unawares on us sitting by the side of the most lucid of little wells? Set down thy pitcher,
my child, and let us have a look at thy happiness--for though thou mayest wonder at our words,
and think us a strange old man, coming and going, once and for ever, to thee and thine a shadow
and no more, yet lean thy head towards us that we may lay our hands on it and bless it--and
promise, as thou art growing up here, sometimes to think of the voice that spake to thee by
the Birk-tree well. Love, fear, and serve God, as the Bible teaches--and whatever happens thee,
quake not, but put thy trust in Heaven.

Do not be afraid of him, sweet one! O'Bronte would submit to be flayed alive rather than bite
a child: see, he offers you a paw--take it without trembling; nay, he will let thee ride on
his back, my pretty dear--won't thou, O'Bronte?--and scamper with thee up and down the knolls
like her coal-black charger rejoicing to bear the Fairy Queen. Thou tellest us thy father and
mother, sisters and brothers, all are dead; yet with a voice cheerful as well as plaintive.
Smile--laugh-- sing--as thou wert doing a minute ago--as thou hast done for many a morning--and
shalt do for many a morning more on thy way to the well--in the woods--on the braes--in the
house,--often all by thyself when the old people are out of doors not far off--or when sometimes
they have for a whole day been from home out of the glen. Forget not our words--and no evil
can befall thee that may not, weak as thou art, be borne,--and nothing wicked that is allowed
to walk the earth will ever be able to hurt a hair on thy head.

My stars! what a lovely little animal! A tame fawn, by all that is wild--kneeling down--to
drink--no--no--at his lady's feet. The collie catched it--thou sayest--on the edge of the Auld
wood--and by the time its wounds were cured, it seemed to have forgot its mother, and soon
learnt to follow thee about to far-off places quite out of sight of this--and to play gamesome
tricks like a creature born among human dwellings. What! it dances like a kid--does it--and
sometimes you put a garland of wildflowers round its neck--and pursue it like a huntress, as
it pretends to be making its escape into the forest?

Look, child, here is a pretty green purse for you, that opens and shuts with a spring--so--and
in it there is a gold coin, called a sovereign, and a crooked sixpence. Don't blush--that was
a graceful curtsy. Keep the crooked sixpence for good-luck, and you never will want. With the
yellow fellow buy a Sunday gown and a pair of Sunday shoes, and what else you like; and now--you
two, lead the way--try a race to the door--and old Christopher North will carry the pitcher--balancing
it on his head--thus--ha! O'Bronte galloping along as umpire. The Fawn has it, and by a neck
has beat Camilla.

We shall lunch ere we go--and lunch well too--for this is a poor man's, not a pauper's hut,
and Heaven still grants his prayer--"give us this day our daily bread." Sweeter--richer bannocks
of barley-meal never met the mouth of mortal man--nor more delicious butter. "We salt it, sir,
for a friend in Glasgow--but now and then we tak a bite of the fresh--do oblige us a', sir,
by eatin, and you'll maybe find the mutton-ham no that bad, though I've kent it fatter--and,
as you hae a lang walk afore you, excuse me, sir, for being sae bauld as to suggeest a glass
o' speerit in your milk. The gudeman is temperate, and he's been sae a' his life--but we keep
it for a cordial--and that bottle--to be sure it's a gey big ane--and would thole replenishing--has
lasted us sin' Whitsuntide."

So presseth us to take care of number one the gudewife, while the gudeman, busy as ourselves,
eyes her with a well-pleased face, but saith nothing, and the bonny wee bit lassie sits on
her stool at the wunnock wi' her coggie ready to do any service at a look, and supping little
or nothing, out of bashfulness in presence of Christopher North, who she believes is a good,
and thinks may, perhaps, be some great man. Our third bannock has had the gooseberry jam laid
on it thick by "the gudewife's ain hand,"--and we suspect at that last wide bite we have smeared
the corners of our mouth--but it will only be making matters worse to attempt licking it off
with our tongue. Pussie! thou hast a cunning look--purring on our knees--and though those glass
een o' thine are blinking at the cream on the saucer--with which thou jalousest we intend to
let thee wet thy whiskers,--we fear thou mak'st no bones of the poor birdies in the brake,
and that many an unlucky leveret has lost its wits at the spring of such a tiger. Cats are
queer creatures, and have an instinctive liking to Warlocks.

And these two old people have survived all their children--sons and daughters! They have told
us the story of their life--and as calmly as if they had been telling of the trials of some
other pair. Perhaps, in our sympathy, though we say but little, they feel a strength that is
not always theirs--perhaps it is a relief from silent sorrow to speak to one who is a stranger
to them, and yet, as they may think, a brother in affliction--but prayer like thanksgiving
assures us that there is in this hut a Christian composure, far beyond the need of our pity,
and sent from a region above the stars.

There cannot be a cleaner cottage. Tidiness, it is pleasant to know, has for a good many years
past been establishing itself in Scotland among the minor domestic virtues. Once established
it will never decay; for it must be felt to brighten, more than could be imagined by our fathers,
the whole aspect of life. No need for any other household fairy to sweep this floor. An orderly
creature we have seen she is, from all her movements out and in doors--though the guest of
but an hour. They have told us that they had known what are called better days--and were once
in a thriving way of business in a town. But they were born and bred in the country; and their
manners, not rustic but rural, breathe of its serene and simple spirit--at once Lowland and
Highland--to us a pleasant union, not without a certain charm of grace.

What loose leaves are those lying on the Bible? A few odd numbers of the SCOTTISH CHRISTIAN
HERALD. We shall take care, our friends, that all the Numbers, bound in three large volumes,
shall, ere many weeks elapse, be lying for you at the Manse. Let us recite to you, our worthy
friends, a small sacred Poem, which we have by heart. Christian, keep your eye on the page,
and if we go wrong, do not fear to set us right. Can you say many psalms and hymns? But we
need not ask--for

    "Piety is sweet to infant minds;"

what they love they remember--for how easy--how happy--to get dear things by heart! Happiest
of all--the things held holy on earth as in heaven--because appertaining here to Eternal Life.

    TO THE SCOTTISH CHRISTIAN HERALD.

    BY THE REV. DUNCAN GRANT, A.M., MINISTER OF FORRES.

    "Beauteous on our heath-clad mountains,
      May our HERALD'S feet appear;
    Sweet, by silver lakes and fountains,
      May his voice be to our ear.
      Let the tenants of our rocks,
      Shepherds watching o'er their flocks,
      Village swain and peasant boy,
      Thee salute with songs of joy!

    CHRISTIAN HERALD! spread the story
      Of Redemption's wondrous plan;
    'Tis Jehovah's brightest glory,
      'Tis His highest gift to man;
      Angels on their harps of gold,
      Love its glories to unfold;
      Heralds who its influence wield,
      Make the waste a fruitful field.

    To the fount of mercy soaring,
      On the wings of faith and love;
    And the depths of grace exploring,
      By the light shed from above;
      Show us whence life's waters flow,
      And where trees of blessing grow,
      Bearing fruit of heavenly bloom,
      Breathing Eden's rich perfume.

    Love to God and man expressing,
      In thy course of mercy speed;
    Lead to springs of joy and blessing,
      And with heavenly manna feed
      Scotland's children high and low,
      Till the Lord they truly know:
      As to us our fathers told,
      He was known by them of old.

    To the young, in season vernal,
      Jesus in His grace disclose;
    As the tree of life eternal,
      'Neath whose shade they may repose,
      Shielded from the noontide ray,
      And from ev'ning's tribes of prey;
      And refresh'd with fruits of love,
      And with music from above.

    CHRISTIAN HERALD! may the blessing
      Of the Highest thee attend,
    That, this chiefest boon possessing,
      Thou may'st prove thy country's friend
      Tend to make our land assume
      Something of its former bloom,
      When the dews of heaven were seen
      Sparkling on its pastures green,

    When the voice of warm devotion
      To the throne of God arose--
    Mighty as the sound of ocean,
      Calm as nature in repose;
      Sweeter, than when Araby
      Perfume breathes from flow'r and tree,
      Rising 'bove the shining sphere,
      To Jehovah's list'ning ear."

It is time we were going--but we wish to hear how thy voice sounds, Christian, when it reads.
So read these same verses, first "into yourself," and then to us. They speak of mercies above
your comprehension, and ours, and all men's; for they speak of the infinite goodness and mercy
of God--but though thou hast committed in thy short life no sins, or but small, towards thy
fellow-creatures--how couldst thou? yet thou knowest we are all sinful in His eyes, and thou
knowest on whose merits is the reliance of our hopes of Heaven. Thank you, Christian. Three
minutes from two by your house-clock--she gives a clear warning--and three minutes from two
by our watch--rather curious this coincidence to such a nicety--we must take up our Crutch
and go. Thank thee, bonny wee Christian--in wi' the bannocks intil our pouch--but we fear you
must take us for a sad glutton.

    "Zickety, dickety, dock,
    The mouse ran up the nock;
    The nock struck one,
    Down the mouse ran,
    Zickety, dickety, dock."

Come closer, Christian--and let us put it to thine ear. What a pretty face of wonder at the
chime! Good people, you have work to do in the hay-field--let us part--God bless you--Good-by--farewell!

Half an hour since we parted--we cannot help being a little sad--and fear we were not so kind
to the old people--not so considerate as we ought to have been--and perhaps, though pleased
with us just now, they may say to one another before evening that we were too merry for our
years. Nonsense. We were all merry together--daft Uncle among the lave--for the creature came
stealing in and sat down on his own stool in the corner; and what's the use of wearing a long
face at all times like a Methodist minister? A Methodist minister! Why, John Wesley was facete,
and Whitfield humorous, and Rowland Hill witty--though he, we believe, was not a Methody; yet
were their hearts fountains of tears--and ours is not a rock--if it be, 'tis the rock of Horeb.

Ha, Hamish! Here we are beneath the Merlin Crag. What sport? Why, five
brace is not so much amiss--and they are thumpers. Fifteen brace in all.
Ducks and flappers. Seven leash. We are getting on. You seem to understand me,
    By each at once her choppy finger laying
    Upon her skinny lips:--you should be women,
    And yet your beards forbid me to interpret
    That you are so!"

Shakespeare is not familiar, we find, among the natives of Loch-Etive side--else these figures
would reply,

    "All hail, Macbeth! hail to thee, Thane of Glammis!"

But not satisfied with laying their choppy fingers on their skinny lips, they now put them
to their plooky noses, having first each dipped fore and thumb in his mull, and gibber Gaelic,
to us unintelligible as the quacking of ducks, when a Christian auditor has been prevented
from catching its meaning by the gobbling of turkeys.

Witches at the least, and about to prophesy to us some pleasant events, that are to terminate
disastrously in after years. Is there no nook of earth perfectly solitary--but must natural
or supernatural footsteps haunt the remotest and most central places? But now we shall have
our fortunes told in choice Erse, for sure these are the Children of the Mist, and perhaps
they will favour us with a running commentary on Ossian. Stout, grim, heather-legged bodies
they are, one and all, and luckily we are provided with snuff and tobacco sufficient for the
whole crew. Were they even ghosts they will not refuse a sneeshin, and a Highland spirit will
look picturesque puffing a cigar!--Hark! we know them and their vocation. These are the Genii
of the Mountain-dew; and their hidden enginery, depend on't, is not far off, but buried in
the bowels of some brae. See!--a faint mist dissipating itself over the heather! There--at
work, shaming the idle waste, and in use and wont to break even the Sabbath-day, is a STILL!

Do we look like Excisemen? The Crutch has indeed a suspicious family resemblance to a gauging-rod;
and literary characters, like us, may well be mistaken for the Supervisor himself. But the
smuggler's eye knows his enemy at a glance, as the fox knows a hound; and the whispering group
discern at once that we are of a nobler breed. That one fear dispelled, Highland hospitality
bids us welcome, even into the mouth of the malt-kiln, and, with a smack on our loof, the Chief
volunteers to initiate us into the grand mysteries of the Worm.

The turf-door is flung outward on its lithe hinges, and already what a gracious smell! In we
go, ushered by unbonneted Celts, gentlemen in manners wherever the kilt is worn; for the tartan
is the symbol of courtesy, and Mac a good password all the world over between man and man.
Lowland eyes are apt to water in the peat-reek, but ere long we shall have another "drappie
in our ee," and drink to the Clans in the "uuchristened cretur." What a sad neglect in our
education, among all the acquired lingoes extant, to have overlooked the Gaelic! Yet nobody
who has ever heard P. R. preach an Erse Sermon, need despair of discoursing in that tongue
after an hour's practice; so let us forget, if possible, every word of English, and the language
now needed will rise up in its place.

And these figures in men's coats and women's petticoats are females? We are willing to believe
it in spite of their beards. One of them absolutely suckling a child! Thank you, my dear sir,
but we cannot swallow the contents of that quaich. Yet, let us try.--A little too warm, and
rather harsh; but meat and drink to a man of age. That seems to be goat-milk cheese, and the
scones are barley; and they and the speerit will wash one another down in an amicable plea,
nor quarrel at close quarters. Honey too--heather-honey of this blessed year's produce. Hecate's
forefinger mixes it in a quaich with mountain-dew--and that is Atholl-brose?

There cannot be the least doubt in the world that the Hamiltonian system of teaching languages
is one of the best ever invented. It will enable any pupil of common-run powers of attention
to read any part of the New Testament in Greek in some twenty lessons of an hour each. But
what is that to the principle of the Worm? Half a blessed hour has not elapsed since we entered
into the door of this hill-house, and we offer twenty to one that we read Ossian ad aperturam
libri, in the original Gaelic. We feel as if we could translate the works of Jeremy Bentham
into that tongue--ay, even Francis Maximus Macnab's Theory of the Universe. We guarantee ourselves
to do both, this identical night before we go to sleep, and if the printers are busy during
the intermediate hours, to correct the press in the morning. Why, there are not above five
thousand roots--but we are getting a little gizzy--into a state of civilation in the wilderness--and,
gentlemen, let us drink--in solemn silence--the "Memory of Fingal."

O St Cecilia! we did not lay our account with a bagpipe! What is the competition of pipers
in the Edinburgh Theatre, small as it is, to this damnable drone in an earth-cell, eight feet
by six! Yet while the drums of our ears are continuing to split like old parchment title-deeds
to lands nowhere existing, and all our animal economy, from finger to toe, is one agonising
dirl, Æolus himself sits as proud as Lucifer in Pandemonium; and as the old soldiers keep tending
the Worm in the reek as if all were silence, the male-looking females, and especially the he-she
with the imp at her breast, nod, and smirk, and smile, and snap their fingers, in a challenge
to a straspey--and, by all that is horrible, a red hairy arm is round our neck, and we are
half choked with the fumes of whisky-kisses. An hour ago we were dreaming of Malvina! and here
she is with a vengeance, while we in the character of Oscar are embraced till almost all the
Lowland breath in our body expires.

And this is STILL-LIFE.

Extraordinary it is, that, go where we will, we are in a wonderfully short time discovered
to be Christopher North. A few years ago, the instant we found our feet in a mine in Cornwall,
after a descent of about one-third the bored earth's diameter, we were saluted by name by a
grim Monops who had not seen the upper regions for years, preferring the interior of the planet;
and forthwith "Christopher North," "Christopher North," reverberated along the galleries, while
the gnomes came flocking in all directions, with safety-lamps, to catch a glimpse of the famous
Editor. On another occasion, we remember, when coasting the south of Ireland in our schooner,
falling in with a boat like a cockle-shell, well out of the Bay of Bantry, and of the three
half-naked Paddies that were ensnaring the finny race, two smoked us at the helm, and bawled
up, "Kitty go bragh!" Were we to go up in a balloon, and by any accident descend in the interior
of Africa, we have not the slightest doubt that Sultan Belloo would know us in a jiffy, having
heard our person so frequently described by Major Denham and Captain Clapperton. So we are
known, it seems, in the Still--by the men of the Worm? Yes--the principal proprietor in the
concern is a schoolmaster over about Loch-Earn-Head--a man of no mean literary abilities, and
an occasional contributor to the Magazine. He visits The Shop in breeches--but now mounts the
kilt--and astonishes us by the versatility of his talents. In one of the most active working
bees we recognise a cadie, formerly in Auld Reekie ycleped "The Despatch," now retired to the
Braes of Balquhidder, and breathing strongly the spirit of his youth. With that heather-houghed
gentleman, fiery-tressed as the God of Day, we were, for the quarter of a century that we held
a large grazing farm, in the annual practice of drinking a gill at the Falkirk Tryst; and--wonderful,
indeed, to think how old friends meet--we were present at the amputation of the right leg of
that timber-toed hero with the bushy whiskers--in the Hospital of Rosetta--having accompanied
Sir David Baird's splendid Indian army into Egypt.

Shying, for the present, the question in Political Economy, and viewing the subject in a moral,
social, and poetical light, what, pray, is the true influence of THE STILL? It makes people
idle. Idle? What species of idleness is that which consists in being up night and day--traversing
moors and mountains in all weathers--constantly contriving the most skilful expedients for
misleading the Excise, and which, on some disastrous day, when dragoons suddenly shake the
desert--when all is lost except honour--hundreds of gallons of wash (alas! alas! a-day!) wickedly
wasted among the heather-roots, and the whole beautiful Apparatus lying battered and spiritless
in the sun beneath the accursed blows of the Pagans--returns, after a few weeks set apart to
natural grief and indignation, with unabated energy, to the self-same work, even within view
of the former ruins, and pouring out a libation of the first amalgamated hotness that deserves
the name of speerit, devotes the whole Board of Excise to the Infernal Gods?

The argument of idleness has not a leg to stand on, and falls at once to the ground.--But the
Still makes men dishonest. We grant that there is a certain degree of dishonesty in cheating
the Excise; and we shall allow yourself to fix it, who give as fine a caulker from the sma'
still as any moral writer on Honesty with whom we have the pleasure occasionally to take a
family dinner. But the poor fellows either grow or purchase their own malt. They do not steal
it; and many is the silent benediction that we have breathed over a bit patch of barley, far
up on its stony soil among the hills, bethinking us that it would yield up its precious spirit
unexcised! Neither do they charge for it any very extravagant price--for what is twelve, fourteen,
twenty shillings a-gallon for such drink divine as is now steaming before us in that celestial
caldron?

Having thus got rid of the charge of idleness and dishonesty, nothing more needs to be said
on the Moral Influence of the Still; and we come now, in the second place, to consider it in
a Social Light. The biggest bigot will not dare to deny, that without whisky the Highlands
of Scotland would be uninhabitable. And if all the population were gone, or extinct, where
then would be your social life? Smugglers are seldom drunkards; neither are they men of boisterous
manners or savage dispositions. In general, they are grave, sedate, peaceable characters, not
unlike elders of the Kirk. Even Excisemen admit them, except on rare occasions when human patience
is exhausted, to be merciful. Four pleasanter men do not now exist in the bosom of the earth,
than the friends with whom we are now on the hobnob. Stolen waters are sweet--a profound and
beautiful reflection--and no doubt originally made by some peripatetic philosopher at a Still.
The very soul of the strong drink evaporates with the touch of the gauger's wand. An evil day
would it indeed be for Scotland, that should witness the extinguishment of all her free and
unlicensed mountain stills! The charm of Highland hospitality would be wan and withered, and
the doch-an-dorras, instead of a blessing, would sound like a ban.

We have said that smugglers are never drunkards, not forgetting that general rules are proved
by exceptions; nay, we go farther, and declare that the Highlanders are the soberest people
in Europe. Whisky is to them a cordial, a medicine, a life-preserver. Chief of the umbrella
and wraprascal! were you ever in the Highlands? We shall produce a single day from any of the
fifty-two weeks of the year that will out-argue you on the present subject, in half an hour.
What sound is that? The rushing of rain from heaven, and the sudden outcry of a thousand waterfalls.
Look through a chink in the bothy, and far as you can see for the mists, the heath-covered
desert is steaming like the smoke of a smouldering fire. Winds biting as winter come sweeping
on their invisible chariots armed with scythes, down every glen, and scatter far and wide over
the mountains the spray of the raging lochs. Now you have a taste of the summer cold, more
dangerous far than that of Yule, for it often strikes "aitches" into the unprepared bones,
and congeals the blood of the shelterless shepherd on the hill. But one glorious gurgle of
the speerit down the throat of a storm-stayed man! and bold as a rainbow he faces the reappearing
sun, and feels assured (though there he may be mistaken) of dying at a good old age.

Then think, oh think, how miserably poor are most of those men who have fought our battles,
and so often reddened their bayonets in defence of our liberties and our laws! Would you grudge
them a little whisky? And depend upon it, a little is the most, taking one day of the year
with another, that they imbibe. You figure to yourself two hundred thousand Highlanders, taking
snuff, and chewing tobacco, and drinking whisky, all year long. Why, one pound of snuff, two
of tobacco, and two gallons of whisky, would be beyond the mark of the yearly allowance of
every grown-up man! Thousands never taste such luxuries at all--meal and water, potatoes and
salt, their only food. The animal food, sir, and the fermented liquors of various kinds, Foreign
and British, which to our certain knowledge you have swallowed within the last twelve months,
would have sufficed for fifty families in our abstemious region of mist and snow. We have known
you drink a bottle of champagne, a bottle of port, and two bottles of claret, frequently at
a sitting, equal, in prime cost, to three gallons of the best Glenlivet! And YOU (who, by the
way, are an English clergyman, a circumstance we had entirely forgotten, and have published
a Discourse against Drunkenness, dedicated to a Bishop) pour forth the Lamentations of Jeremiah
over the sinful multitude of Small Stills! Hypocrisy! hypocrisy! where shalt thou hide thy
many-coloured sides?

Whisky is found by experience to be, on the whole, a blessing in so misty and mountainous a
country. It destroys disease and banishes death; without some such stimulant the people would
die of cold. You will see a fine old Gael, of ninety or a hundred, turn up his little finger
to a caulker with an air of patriarchal solemnity altogether scriptural; his great-grandchildren
eyeing him with the most respectful affection, and the youngest of them toddling across the
floor, to take the quaich from his huge, withered, and hairy hand, which he lays on the amiable
Joseph's sleek craniology, with a blessing heartier through the Glenlivet, and with all the
earnestness of religion. There is no disgrace in getting drunk--in the Highlands--not even
if you are of the above standing--for where the people are so poor, such a state is but of
rare occurrence; while it is felt all over the land of sleet and snow, that a 'drap o' the
cretur' is a very necessary of life, and that but for its 'dew' the mountains would be uninhabitable.
At fairs, and funerals, and marriages, and suchlike merry meetings, sobriety is sent to look
after the sheep; but, except on charitable occasions of that kind, sobriety stays at home among
the peat-reek, and is contented with crowdy. Who that ever stooped his head beneath a Highland
hut would grudge a few gallons of Glenlivet to its poor but unrepining inmates? The seldomer
they get drunk the better--and it is but seldom they do so; but let the rich man--the monied
moralist, who bewails and begrudges the Gael a modicum of the liquor of life, remember the
doom of a certain Dives, who, in a certain place that shall now be nameless, cried, but cried
in vain, for a drop of water. Lord bless the Highlanders, say we, for the most harmless, hospitable,
peaceable, brave people that ever despised breeches, blew pibrochs, took invincible standards,
and believed in the authenticity of Ossian's poems. In that pure and lofty region ignorance
is not, as elsewhere, the mother of vice--penury cannot repress the noble rage of the mountaineer
as "he sings aloud old songs that are the music of the heart;" while superstition herself has
an elevating influence, and will be suffered, even by religion, to show her shadowy shape and
mutter her wild voice through the gloom that lies on the heads of the remote glens, and among
the thousand caves of echo in her iron-bound coasts, dashed on for ever--night and day--summer
and winter--by those sleepless seas, who have no sooner laid their heads on the pillow than
up they start with a howl that cleaves the Orcades, and away off in search of shipwrecks round
the corner of Cape Wrath.

In the third place, what shall we say of the poetical influence of STILLS? What more poetical
life can there be than that of the men with whom we are now quaffing the barley-bree? They
live with the moon and stars. All the night winds are their familiars. If there be such things
as ghosts, and fairies, and apparitions--and that there are, no man who has travelled much
by himself after sunset will deny, except from the mere love of contradiction--they see them;
or when invisible, which they generally are, hear them--here--there--everywhere--in sky, forest,
cave, or hollow-sounding world immediately beneath their feet. Many poets walk these wilds;
nor do their songs perish. They publish not with Blackwood or with Murray--but for centuries
on centuries, such songs are the preservers, often the sources, of the oral traditions that
go glimmering and gathering down the stream of years. Native are they to the mountains as the
blooming heather, nor shall they ever cease to invest them with the light of poetry--in defiance
of large farms, Methodist preachers, and the Caledonian Canal.

People are proud of talking of solitude. It redounds, they opine, to the honour of their great-mindedness
to be thought capable of living, for an hour or two, by themselves, at a considerable distance
from knots or skeins of their fellow-creatures. Byron, again, thought he showed his superiority
by swearing as solemnly as a man can do in the Spenserian stanza that

    "To sit alone, and muse o'er flood and fell,"

has nothing whatever to do with solitude--and that, if you wish to know and feel what solitude
really is, you must go to Almack's.

    "This is to be alone,--this, this is solitude."

His Lordship's opinions were often peculiar--but the passage has been much admired; therefore
we are willing to believe that the Great Desert is, in point of loneliness, unable to stand
a philosophical, much less a poetical comparison, with a well-frequented Fancy-ball. But is
the statement not borne out by facts? Zoology is on its side--more especially two of its most
interesting branches, Entomology and Ornithology.

Go to a desert and clap your back against a cliff. Do you think yourself alone? What a ninny!
Your great clumsy splay feet are bruising to death a batch of beetles. See that spider whom
you have widowed, running up and down your elegant leg, in distraction and despair, bewailing
the loss of a husband who, however savage to the ephemerals, had always smiled sweetly upon
her. Meanwhile your shoulders have crushed a colony of small red ants settled in a moss city
beautifully roofed with lichens--and that accounts for the sharp tickling behind your ear,
which you keep scratching, no Solomon, in ignorance of the cause of that effect. Should you
sit down--we must beg to draw a veil over your hurdies, which at the moment extinguish a fearful
amount of animal life--creation may be said to groan under them; and, insect as you are yourself,
you are defrauding millions of insects of their little day. All the while you are supposing
yourself alone! Now, are you not, as we hinted, a prodigious ninny? But the whole wilderness--as
you choose to call it--is crawling with various life. London with its million and a half of
inhabitants--including of course the suburbs--is, compared with it, an empty joke. Die--and
you will soon be picked to the bones. The air swarms with sharpers--and an insurrection of
radicals will attack your corpse from the worm-holes of the earth. Corbies, ravens, hawks,
eagles, all the feathered furies of beak and bill, will come flying ere sunset to anticipate
the maggots, and carry your remains--if you will allow us to call them so--over the whole of
Argyllshire in many living sepulchres. We confess ourselves unable to see the solitude of this--and
begin to agree with Byron, that a man is less crowded at a masquerade.

But the same subject may be illustrated less tragically, and even with some slight comic effect.
A man among mountains is often surrounded on all sides with mice and moles. What cosy nests
do the former construct at the roots of heather, among tufts of grass in the rushes, and the
moss on the greensward! As for the latter, though you think you know a mountain from a molehill,
you are much mistaken; for what is a mountain, in many cases, but a collection of molehills--and
of fairy knolls?--which again introduce a new element into the composition, and show, in still
more glaring colours, your absurdity in supposing yourself to be in solitude. The "Silent People"
are around you at every step. You may not see them--for they are dressed in invisible green;
but they see you, and that unaccountable whispering and buzzing sound one often hears in what
we call the wilderness, what is it, or what can it be, but the fairies making merry at your
expense, pointing out to each other the extreme silliness of your meditative countenance, and
laughing like to split at your fond conceit of being alone among a multitude of creatures far
wiser than yourself.

But should all this fail to convince you that you are never less alone than when you think
yourself alone, and that a man never knows what it is to be in the very heart of life till
he leaves London, and takes a walk in Glen-Etive--suppose yourself to have been leaning with
your back against that knoll, dreaming of the far-off race of men, when all at once the support
gives way inwards, and you tumble head over heels in among a snug coterie of kilted Celts,
in the very act of creating Glenlivet in a great warlock's caldron, seething to the top with
the Spirit of Life!

Such fancies as these, among many others, were with us in the Still. But a glimmering and a
humming and a dizzy bewilderment hangs over that time and place, finally dying away into oblivion.
Here are we sitting in a glade of a birch-wood in what must be Gleno--some miles from the Still.
Hamish asleep, as usual, whenever he lies down, and all the dogs yowffing in dreams, and Surefoot
standing with his long beard above ours, almost the same in longitude. We have been more, we
suspect, than half-seas over, and are now lying on the shore of sobriety, almost a wreck. The
truth is, that the new spirit is even more dangerous than the new light. Both at first dazzle,
then obfuscate, and lastly darken into temporary death. There is, we fear, but one word of
one syllable in the English language that could fully express our late condition. Let our readers
solve the enigma. Oh! those quaichs! By

                  "What drugs, what spells,
    What conjurations, and what mighty magic"

was Christopher overthrown! A strange confusion of sexes, as of men in petticoats and women
in breeches--gowns transmogrified into jackets--caps into bonnets--and thick naked hairy legs
into slim ankles decent in hose--all somewhere whirling and dancing by, dim and obscure, to
the sound of something groaning and yelling, sometimes inarticulately, as if it came from something
instrumental, and then mixed up with a wild gibberish, as if shrieking, somehow or other, from
living lips, human and brute--for a dream of yowling dogs is over all--utterly confounds us
as we strive to muster in recollection the few last hours that have passed tumultuously through
our brain--and then a wide black moor, sometimes covered with day, sometimes with night, stretches
around us, hemmed in on all sides by the tops of mountains seeming to reel in the sky. Frequent
flashes of fire, and a whirring as of the wings of birds--but sound and sight alike uncertain--break
again upon our dream. Let us not mince the matter--we can afford the confession--we have been
overtaken by liquor--sadly intoxicated--out with it at once! Frown not, fairest of all sweet--for
we lay our calamity, not to the charge of the Glenlivet circling in countless quaichs, but
at the door of that inveterate enemy to sobriety--the Fresh Air.

But now we are as sober as a judge. Pity our misfortune--rather than forgive our sin. We entered
that Still in a State of innocence before the Fall. Where we fell, we know not--in divers ways
and sundry places--between that magic cell on the breast of Benachochie, and this glade in
Gleno. But

    "There are worse things in life than a fall among heather."

Surefoot, we suppose, kept himself tolerably sober--and O'Bronte, at each successive cloit,
must have assisted us to remount--for Hamish, from his style of sleeping, must have been as
bad as his master; and, after all, it is wonderful to think how we got here--over hags and
mosses, and marshes, and quagmires, like those in which "armies whole have sunk." But the truth
is, that never in the whole course of our lives--and that course has been a strange one--did
we ever so often as once lose our way. Set us down blindfolded on Zahara, and we will beat
the caravan to Timbuctoo. Something or other mysteriously indicative of the right direction
touches the soles of our feet in the shape of the ground they tread; and even when our souls
have gone soaring far away, or have sunk within us, still have our feet pursued the shortest
and the safest path that leads to the bourne of our pilgrimage. Is not that strange? But not
stranger surely than the flight of the bee, on his first voyage over the coves of the wilderness
to the far-off heather-bells--or of the dove that is sent by some Jew stock-jobber, to communicate
to Dutchmen the rise or fall of the funds, from London to Hamburg, from the clear shores of
silver Thames to the muddy shallows of the Zuyder Zee.

THE MOORS.

FLIGHT FOURTH--DOWN RIVER AND UP LOCH.

Let us inspect the state of Brown Bess. Right barrel empty--left barrel--what is the meaning
of this?--crammed to the muzzle! Ay, that comes of visiting Stills. We have been snapping away
at the coveys and single birds all over the moor, without so much as a pluff, with the right-hand
cock--and then, imagining that we had fired, have kept loading away at the bore to the left,
till, see! the ramrod absolutely stands upright in the air, with only about three inches hidden
in the hollow! What a narrow--a miraculous escape has the world had of losing Christopher North!
Had he drawn that trigger instead of this, Brown Bess would have burst to a moral certainty,
and blown the old gentleman piecemeal over the heather. "In the midst of life we are in death!"
Could we but know one in a hundred of the close approachings of the skeleton, we should lead
a life of perpetual shudder. Often and often do his bony fingers almost clutch our throat,
or his foot is put out to give us a cross-buttock. But a saving arm pulls him back, ere we
have seen so much as his shadow. We believe all this--but the belief that comes not from something
steadfastly present before our eyes, is barren; and thus it is, since believing is not seeing,
that we walk hoodwinked nearly all our days, and worst of all blindness is that of ingratitude
and forgetfulness of Him whose shield is for ever over us, and whose mercy shall be with us
in the world beyond the grave.

By all that is most beautifully wild in animated nature, a Roe! a Roe! Shall we slay him where
he stands, or let him vanish in silent glidings in among his native woods? What a fool for
asking ourselves such a question! Slay him where he stands to be sure--for many pleasant seasons
hath he led in his leafy lairs, a life of leisure, delight, and love, and the hour is come
when he must sink down on his knees in a sudden and unpainful death--fair sylvan dreamer! We
have drawn that multitudinous shot--and both barrels of Brown Bess now are loaded with ball--for
Hamish is yet lying with his head on the rifle. Whiz! whiz! one is through lungs, and another
through neck--and seemingly rather to sleep than die (so various are the many modes of expiration!)

        "In quietness he lays him down
        Gently, as a weary wave
    Sinks, when the summer breeze has died,
    Against an anchor'd vessel's side."

Ay--Hamish--you may start to your feet--and see realised the vision of your sleep. What a set
of distracted dogs! But O'Bronte first catches sight of the quarry--and clearing, with grasshopper
spangs, the patches of stunted coppice, stops stock-still beside the roe in the glade, as if
admiring and wondering at the beauty of the fair spotted creature! Yes, dogs have a sense of
the beautiful. Else how can you account for their loving so to lie down at the feet and lick
the hands of the virgin whose eyes are mild, and forehead meek, and hair of placid sunshine,
rather than act the same part towards ugly women, who, coarser and coarser in each successive
widow-hood, when at their fourth husband are beyond expression hideous, and felt to be so by
the whole canine tribe? Spenser must have seen some dog like O'Bronte lying at the feet and
licking the hand of some virgin--sweet reader, like thyself--else never had he painted the
posture of that Lion who guarded through Fairyland

    "Heavenly Una and her milk-white lamb."

A divine line of Wordsworth's, which we shall never cease quoting on to the last of our inditings,
even to our dying day!

But where, Hamish, are all the flappers, the mawsies, and the mallards? What! You have left
them--hare, grouse, bag, and all, at the Still! We remember it now--and all the distillers
are to-night to be at our Tent, bringing with them feathers, fur, and hide--ducks, pussy, and
deer. But take the roe on your stalwart shoulders, Hamish, and bear it down to the sylvan dwelling
at the mouth of Gleno. Surefoot has a sufficient burden in us--for we are waxing more corpulent
every day--and ere long shall be a Silenus.

Ay, travel all the world over, and a human dwelling lovelier in its wildness shall you nowhere
find, than the one that hides itself in the depth of its own beauty, beneath the last of the
green knolls besprinkling Gleno, dropt down there in presence of the peacefulest bay of all
Loch-Etive, in whose cloud-softened bosom it sees itself reflected among the congenial imagery
of the skies. And, hark! a murmur as of swarming bees! 'Tis a Gaelic school--set down in this
loneliest of all places, by that religious wisdom that rests not till the seeds of saving knowledge
shall be sown over all the wilds. That greyhaired minister of God, whom all Scotland venerates,
hath been here from the great city on one of his holy pilgrimages. And, lo! at his bidding,
and that of his coadjutors in the heavenly work, a Schoolhouse has risen with its blue roof--the
pure diamond-sparkling slates of Ballahulish--beneath a tuft of breeze-breaking trees. But
whence come they--the little scholars--who are all murmuring there? We said that the shores
of Loch-Etive were desolate. So seem they to the eye of Imagination, that loves to gather up
a hundred scenes into one, and to breathe over the whole the lonesome spirit of one vast wilderness.
But Imagination was a liar ever--a romancer and a dealer in dreams. Hers are the realms of fiction,

    "A boundless contiguity of shade!"

But the land of truth is ever the haunt of the heart--there her eye reposes or expatiates,
and what sweet, humble, and lowly visions arise before it, in a light that fadeth not away,
but abideth for ever! Cottages, huts, shielings, she sees hidden--few and far between indeed--but
all filled with Christian life--among the hollows of the hills--and up, all the way up the
great glens--and by the shores of the loneliest lochs--and sprinkled, not so rarely, among
the woods that enclose little fields and meadows of their own--all the way down--more and more
animated--till children are seen gathering before their doors the shells of the contiguous sea.

Look and listen far and wide through a sunshiny day, over a rich wooded region, with hedgerows,
single trees, groves, and forests, and yet haply not one bird is to be seen or heard--neither
plumage nor song. Yet many a bright lyrist is there, all mute till the harbinger-hour of sunset,
when all earth, air, and heaven, shall be ringing with one song. Almost even so is it with
this mountain-wilderness. Small bright-haired, bright-eyed, bright-faced children, come stealing
out in the morning from many hidden huts, each solitary in its own site, the sole dwelling
on its own brae or its own dell. Singing go they one and all, alone or in small bands, trippingly
along the wide moors; meeting into pleasant parties at cross-paths or at fords, till one stated
hour sees them all gathered together, as now in the small Schoolhouse of Gleno, and the echo
of the happy hum of the simple scholars is heard soft among the cliffs. But all at once the
hum now ceases, and there is a hurry out of doors, and an exulting cry; for the shadow of Hamish,
with the roe on his shoulders, has passed the small lead-latticed window, and the Schoolroom
has emptied itself on the green, which is now brightening with the young blossoms of life.
"A roe--a roe--a roe!"--is still the chorus of their song; and the Schoolmaster himself, though
educated at college for the kirk, has not lost the least particle of his passion for the chase,
and with kindling eyes assists Hamish in laying down his burden, and gazes on the spots with
a hunter's joy. We leave you to imagine his delight and his surprise when, at first hardly
trusting his optics, he beholds CHRISTOPHER ON SUREFOOT, and then, patting the shelty on the
shoulder, bows affectionately and respectfully to the Old Man, and while our hands grasp, takes
a pleasure in repeating over and over again that celebrated surname--North--North--North.

After a brief and bright hour of glee and merriment, mingled with grave talk, nor marred by
the sweet undisturbance of all those elves maddening on the Green around the Roe, we express
a wish that the scholars may all again be gathered together in the Schoolroom, to undergo an
examination by the Christian Philosopher of Buchanan Lodge. 'Tis in all things gentle, in nothing
severe. All slates are instantly covered with numerals, and 'tis pleasant to see their skill
in finest fractions, and in the wonder-working golden rule of three. And now the rustling of
their manuals is like that of rainy breezes among the summer leaves. No fears are here that
the Book of God will lose its sanctity by becoming too familiar to eye, lip, and hand. Like
the sunlight in the sky, the light that shines there is for ever dear--and unlike any sunlight
in any skies, never is it clouded, permanently bright, and undimmed before pious eyes by one
single shadow. We ought, perhaps, to be ashamed, but we are not so--we are happy that not an
urchin is there who is not fully better acquainted with the events and incidents recorded in
the Old and New Testaments than ourselves; and think not that all these could have been so
faithfully committed to memory without the perpetual operation of the heart. Words are forgotten
unless they are embalmed in spirit; and the air of the world, blow afterwards rudely as it
may, shall never shrivel up one syllable that has been steeped into their souls by the spirit
of the Gospel--felt by these almost infant disciples of Christ to be the very breath of God.

It has turned out one of the sweetest and serenest afternoons that ever breathed a hush over
the face and bosom of August woods. Can we find it in our mind to think, in our heart to feel,
in our hand to write, that Scotland is now even more beautiful than in our youth! No--not in
our heart to feel--but in our eyes to see--for they tell us it is the truth. The people have
cared for the land which the Lord their God hath given them, and have made the wilderness to
blossom like the rose. The same Arts that have raised their condition have brightened their
habitation; Agriculture, by fertilising the loveliness of the low-lying vales, has sublimed
the sterility of the stupendous mountain heights--and the thundrous tides, flowing up the lochs,
bring power to the cornfields and pastures created on hill-sides once horrid with rocks. The
whole country laughs with a more vivid verdure--more pure the flow of her streams and rivers--for
many a fen and marsh has been made dry, and the rainbow pictures itself on clearer cataracts.

The Highlands were, in our memory, overspread with a too dreary gloom. Vast tracts there were
in which Nature herself seemed miserable; and if the heart find no human happiness to repose
on, Imagination will fold her wings, or flee away to other regions, where in her own visionary
world she may soar at will, and at will stoop down to the homes of this real earth. Assuredly
the inhabitants are happier than they then were--better off--and therefore the change, whatever
loss it may comprehend, has been a gain in good. Alas! poverty--penury--want--even of the necessaries
of life--are too often there still rife; but patience and endurance dwell there, heroic and
better far, Christian--nor has Charity been slow to succour regions remote but not inaccessible,
Charity acting in power delegated by Heaven to our National Councils. And thus we can think
not only without sadness, but with an elevation of soul inspired by such example of highest
virtue in humblest estate, and in our own sphere exposed to other trials be induced to follow
it, set to us in many "a virtuous household, though exceeding poor." What are the poetical
fancies about "mountain scenery," that ever fluttered on the leaves of albums, in comparison
with any scheme, however prosaic, that tends in any way to increase human comforts? The best
sonnet that ever was written by a versifier from the South to the Crown of Benlomond, is not
worth the worst pair of worsted stockings trotted in by a small Celt going with his dad to
seek for a lost sheep among the snow-wreaths round his base. As for eagles, and ravens, and
red-deer, "those magnificent creatures so stately and bright," let them shift for themselves--and
perhaps in spite of all our rhapsodies--the fewer of them the better; but among geese, and
turkeys, and poultry, let propagation flourish--the fleecy folk baa--and the hairy hordes bellow
on a thousand hills. All the beauty and sublimity on earth--over the Four Quarters of the World--is
not worth a straw if valued against a good harvest. An average crop is satisfactory; but a
crop that soars high above an average--a golden year of golden ears--sends joy into the heart
of heaven. No prating now of the degeneracy of the potato. We can sing now with our single
voice, like a numerous chorus, of

    "Potatoes drest both ways, both roasted and boiled;"

sixty bolls to the acre on a field of our own of twenty acres--mealier than any meal--Perth
reds--to the hue on whose cheeks dull was that on the face of the Fair Maid of Perth, when
she blushed to confess to Burn-y-win' that hand-over-hip he had struck the iron when it was
hot, and that she was no more the Glover's. O bright are potato blooms!--O green are potato-shaws!--O
yellow are potato-plums! But how oft are blighted summer hopes and broken summer promises!
Spare not the shaw--heap high the mounds--that damp nor frost may dim a single eye; so that
all winter through poor men may prosper, and spring see settings of such prolific vigour, that
they shall yield a thousandfold--and the sound of rumbledethumps be heard all over the land.

Let the people eat--let them have food for their bodies, and then they will have heart to care
for their souls; and the good and the wise will look after their souls with sure and certain
hope of elevating them from their hovels to heaven, while prigs, with their eyes in a fine
frenzy rolling, rail at railroads, and all the other vile inventions of an utilitarian age
to open up and expedite communication between the Children of the Mist and the Sons and Daughters
of the Sunshine, to the utter annihilation of the sublime Spirit of Solitude. Be under no sort
of alarm for Nature. There is some talk, it is true, of a tunnel through Cruachan to the Black
Mount, but the general impression seems to be that it will be a great bore. A joint-stock company
that undertook to remove Ben-Nevis, is beginning to find unexpected obstructions. Feasible
as we confess it appeared, the idea of draining Loch Lomond has been relinquished for the easier
and more useful scheme of converting the Clyde from below Stonebyres to above the Bannatyne
Fall into a canal--the chief lock being, in the opinion of the most ingenious speculators,
almost ready-made at Corra Linn. Shall we never be done with our soliloquy? It may be a little
longish, for age is prolix--but every whit as natural and congenial with circumstances, as
Hamlet's "to be or not to be, that is the question." O beloved Albin! our soul yearneth towards
thee, and we invoke a blessing on thy many thousand glens. The man who leaves a blessing on
any one of thy solitary places, and gives expression to a good thought in presence of a Christian
brother, is a missionary of the church. What uncomplaining and unrepining patience in thy solitary
huts! What unshrinking endurance of physical pain and want, that might well shame the Stoic's
philosophic pride! What calm contentment, akin to mirth, in so many lonesome households, hidden
the greatest part of the year in mist and snow! What peaceful deathbeds, witnessed but by a
few, a very few grave but tearless eyes! Ay, how many martyrdoms for the holy love and religion
of nature, worse to endure than those of old at the stake, because protracted through years
of sore distress, for ever on the very limit of famine, yet for ever far removed from despair!
Such is the people among whom we seek to drop the books, whose sacred leaves are too often
scattered to the winds, or buried in the dust of Pagan lands. Blessed is the fount from whose
wisely-managed munificence the small house of God will rise frequent in the wide and sea-divided
wilds, with its humble associate, the heath-roofed school, in which, through the silence of
nature, will be heard the murmuring voices of the children of the poor, instructed in the knowledge
useful for time, and of avail for eternity.

We leave a loose sovereign or two to the Bible Fund; and remounting Surefoot, while our friend
the schoolmaster holds the stirrup tenderly to our toe, jog down the road which is rather alarmingly
like the channel of a drought-dried torrent, and turning round on the saddle, send our farewell
salutes to the gazing scholars, first, bonnet waved round our head, and then, that replaced,
a kiss flung from our hand. Hamish, relieved of the roe, which will be taken up (how, you shall
by-and-by hear) on our way back to the Tent, is close at our side, to be ready should Shelty
stumble; O'Bronte as usual bounds in the van; and Ponto, Piro, and Basta, impatient for the
next heather hill, keep close at our heels through the wood.

We do not admire that shooting-ground which resembles a poultry-yard. Grouse and barn-door
fowls are constructed on opposite principles, the former being wild, and the latter tame creatures,
when in their respective perfection. Of all dull pastimes, the dullest seems to us sporting
in a preserve; and we believe that we share that feeling with the Grand Signior. The sign of
a lonely wayside inn in the Highlands, ought not to be the Hen and Chickens. Some shooters,
we know, sick of common sport, love slaughter. From sunrise to sunset of the First Day of the
Moors, they must bag their hundred brace. That can only be done where pouts prevail, and cheepers
keep chiding; and where you have half-a-dozen attendants to hand you double-barrels sans intermission,
for a round dozen of hours spent in a perpetual fire. Commend us to a plentiful sprinkling
of game; to ground which seems occasionally barren, and which it needs a fine instructed eye
to traverse scientifically, and thereof to detect the latent riches. Fear and Hope are the
Deities whom Christopher in his Sporting Jacket worships; and were they unpropitious, the Moors
would lose all their witchcraft. We are a dead shot, but not always, for the forefinger of
our right hand is the most fitful forefinger in all this capricious world. Like all performers
in the Fine Arts, our execution is very uncertain; and though "toujours pret" is the impress
on one side of our shield, "hit and miss" is that on the other, and often the more characteristic.
A gentleman ought not to shoot like a gamekeeper, any more than at billiards to play like a
marker, nor with four-in-hand ought he to tool his prads like the Portsmouth Dragsman. We choose
to shoot like a philosopher as we are, and to preserve the golden mean in murder. We hold,
with Aristotle, that all virtue consists in the middle between the two extremes; and thus we
shoot in a style equidistant from that of the gamekeeper on the one hand, and that of the bagman
on the other, neither killing nor missing every bird; but, true to the spirit of the Aristotelian
doctrine, leaning with a decided inclination towards the first rather than the second predicament.
If we shoot too well one day, we are pretty sure to make amends for it by shooting just as
much too ill another; and thus, at the close of the week, we can go to bed with a clear conscience.
In short, we shoot like gentlemen, scholars, poets, philosophers as we are; and looking at
us, you have a sight

    "Of him who walks (rides) in glory and in joy,
    Following his dog upon the mountain-side,"--

a man evidently not shooting for a wager, and performing a match from the mean motive of avarice
or ambition, but blazing away "at his own sweet will," and, without seeming to know it, making
a great noise in the world. Such, believe us, is ever the mode in which true genius displays
at once the earnestness and the modesty of its character.--But, Hamish--Hamish--Hamish--look
with both thine eyes on yonder bank--yonder sunny bank, beneath the shade of that fantastic
cliff's superincumbent shadow--and seest thou not basking there a miraculous amount of the
right sort of feathers? They have packed, Hamish--they have packed, early as it yet is in the
season; and the question is--What shall we do? We have it. Take up a position--Hamish--about
a hundred yards in the rear--on yonder knoll--with the Colonel's Sweeper. Fire from the rest--mind,
from the rest, Hamishright into the centre of that bed of plumage, and we shall be ready, with
Brown Bess and her sister, to pour in our quartette upon the remains as they rise--so that
not escape shall one single feather. Let our coming "to the present" be your signal.--Bang!
Whew!--what a flutter! Now take that--and that--and that--and that! Ha! Hamish--as at the springing
of a mine, the whole company has perished. Count the dead. Twenty-one! Life is short--and by
this compendious style we take Time by the forelock. But where the devil are the ducks? Oh,
yes! with the deer at the Still. Bag, and be stirring. For the Salmon-pond is murmuring in
our ear; and in another hour we must be at Inveraw. Who said that Cruachan was a steep mountain?
Why, with a gentle, smooth, and easy slope, he dips his footsteps in the sea-salt waters of
Loch Etive's tide, as if to accommodate the old gentleman who, half-a-century ago, used to
beard him in his pride on his throne of clouds. Heaven bless him!--he is a kind-hearted mountain,
though his forehead be furrowed, and his aspect grim in stormy weather. A million memories
"o' auld lang syne" revive, as almost "smooth-sliding without a step" Surefoot travels through
the sylvan haunts, by us beloved of yore, when every day was a dream, and every dream filled
to overflowing with poetic visions that swarmed in every bough, on every bent, on every heather-bell,
on every dewdrop, in every mote o' the sun, in every line of gossamer, all over greenwood and
greensward, grey cliff, purple heath, blue lock, "wine-faced sea,"

      "with locks divinely spreading,
    Like sullen hyacinths in vernal hue,"

and all over the sky, seeming then a glorious infinitude, where light, and joy, and beauty
had their dwelling in calm and storm alike for evermore.

Heaven bless thee--with all her sun, moon, and stars! there thou art, dearest to us of all
the lochs of Scotland--and they are all dear--mountain-crowned, cliff-guarded, isle-zoned,
grove-girdled, wide-winding, and far-stretching, with thy many-bayed banks and braes of brushwood,
fern, broom, and heather, rejoicing in their huts and shielings, thou glory of Argyllshire,
rill-and-river-fed, sea-arm-like, floating in thy majesty, magnificent Loch Awe!

Comparisons, so far from being odious, are always suggested to our hearts by the spirit of
love. We behold Four Lochs--Loch Awe, before our bodily eyes, which sometimes sleep--Loch Lomond,
Windermere, Killarney, before those other eyes of ours that are waking ever. The longest is
Loch Awe, which from that bend below Sonnachan to distant Edderline, looks like a river. But
cut off, with the soft scythe or sickle of fancy, twenty miles of the length of the mottled
snake, who never coils himself up except in misty weather, and who is now lying outstretched
in the sunshine, and the upper part, the head and shoulders, are of themselves a Loch. Pleasant
are his many hills, and magnificent his one mountain. For you see but Cruachan. He is the master-spirit.
Call him the noblest of Scotland's Kings. His subjects are princes; and gloriously they range
around him, stretching high, wide, and far away, yet all owing visible allegiance to him, their
sole and undisputed sovereign. The setting and the rising sun do him homage. Peace loves--as
now--to dwell within his shadow; but high among the precipices are the halls of the storms.
Green are the shores as emerald. But the dark heather with its purple bloom sleeps in sombre
shadow over wide regions of dusk, and there is an austere character in the cliffs. Moors and
mosses intervene between holms and meadows, and those black spots are stacks of last year's
peats--not huts, as you might think; but those other specks are huts, somewhat browner--few
roofed with straw, almost all with heather--though the better houses are slated--nor is there
in the world to be found slate of a more beautiful pale-green colour than in the quarries of
Ballahulish. The scene is vast and wild; yet so much beauty is interfused, that at such an
hour as this its character is almost that of loveliness; the rude and rugged is felt to be
rural, and no more; and the eye, gliding from the cottage gardens on its banks to the islands
on the bosom of the Loch, loses sight of the mighty masses heaved up to the heavens, while
the heart forgets that they are there, in its sweet repose. The dim-seen ruins of castle or
religious house, secluded from all the stir that disturbed the shore, carries back our dreams
to the olden time, and we awake from our reveries of "sorrows suffered long ago," to enjoy
the apparent happiness of the living world.

Loch Lomond is a sea! Along its shores might you voyage in your swift schooner, with shifting
breezes, all a summer's day, nor at sunset, when you dropped anchor, have seen half the beautiful
wonders. It is many-isled; and some of them are in themselves little worlds, with woods and
hills. Houses are seen looking out from among old trees, and children playing on the greensward
that slopes safely into deep water, where in rushy havens are drawn up the boats of fishermen,
or of woodcutters who go to their work on the mainland. You might live all your life on one
of those islands, and yet be no hermit. Hundreds of small bays indent the shores, and some
of a majestic character take a fine bold sweep with their towering groves, enclosing the mansion
of a Colquhoun or a Campbell at enmity no more, or the turreted castle of the rich alien, who
there finds himself as much at home as in his hereditary hall, Sassenach and Gael now living
in gentle friendship. What a prospect from the Point of Firkin! The Loch in its whole length
and breadth--the magnificent expanse unbroken, though bedropped, with unnumbered isles--and
the shores diversified with jutting cape and far-shooting peninsula, enclosing sweet separate
seclusions, each in itself a loch. Ships might be sailing here, the largest ships of war; and
there is anchorage for fleets. But the clear course of the lovely Leven is rock-crossed and
intercepted with gravelly shallows, and guards Loch Lomond from the white-winged roamers that
from all seas come crowding into the Firth of Clyde, and carry their streaming flags above
the woods of Ardgowan. And there stands Ben. What cares he for all the multitude of other lochs
his gaze commands--what cares he even for the salt-sea foam tumbling far away off into the
ocean? All-sufficient for his love is his own loch at his feet. How serenely looks down the
Giant! Is there not something very sweet in his sunny smile? Yet were you to see him frown--as
we have seen him--your heart would sink; and what would become of you--if all alone by your
own single self, wandering over the wide moor that glooms in utter houselessness between his
corries and Glenfalloch--what if you were to hear the strange mutterings we have heard, as
if moaning from an earthquake among quagmires, till you felt that the sound came from the sky,
and all at once from the heart of night that had strangled day burst a shattering peal that
might waken the dead--for Benlomond was in wrath, and vented it in thunder?

Perennially enjoying the blessing of a milder clime, and repaying the bounty of nature by beauty
that bespeaks perpetual gratitude--merry as May, rich as June, shady as July, lustrous as August,
and serene as September, for in her meet the characteristic charms of every season, all delightfully
mingled by the happy genius of the place commissioned to pervade the whole from heaven, most
lovely yet most majestic, we breathed the music of thy name, and start in this sterner solitude
at the sweet syllabling of Windermere, Windermere! Translucent thy waters as diamond without
a flaw. Unstained from source to sea are all the streams soft issuing from their silver springs
among those beautiful mountains. Pure are they all as dew--and purer look the white clouds
within their breast. These are indeed the Fortunate Groves! Happy is every tree. Blest the
"Golden Oak," which seems to shine in lustre of his own, unborrowed from the sun. Fairer far
the flower-tangled grass of those wood-encircled pastures than any meads of Asphodel. Thou
need'st no isles on thy heavenly bosom, for in the sweet confusion of thy shores are seen the
images of many isles, fragments that one might dream had been gently loosened from the land,
and had floated away into the lake till they had lost themselves in the fairy wilderness. But
though thou need'st them not, yet hast thou, O Windermere! thine own steadfast and enduring
isles--her called the Beautiful--and islets not far apart that seem born of her; for theirs
the same expression of countenance--that of celestial calm--and, holiest of the sisterhood,
one that still retains the ruins of an oratory, and bears the name of the Virgin Mother Mild,
to whom prays the mariner when sailing, in the moonlight, along Sicilian seas.

Killarney! From the village of Cloghereen issued an uncouth figure, who called himself the
"Man of the Mountain;" and pleased with Pan, we permitted him to blow his horn before us up
to the top of Mangerton, where the Devil, 'tis believed, scooped out the sward beneath the
cliffs into a Punch-bowl. No doubt he did, and the Old Potter wrought with fire. 'Tis the crater
of an extinct volcano. Charles Fox, Weld says, and Wright doubts, swam the Pool. Why not? 'Tis
not so cold as the Polar Sea. We swam across it--as Mulcocky, were he alive, but he is dead,
could vouch; and felt braced like a drum. What a panorama! Our first feeling was one of grief
that we were not an Irishman. We knew not where to fix our gaze. Surrounded by the dazzling
bewilderment of all that multitudinous magnificence, the eye, as if afraid to grapple with
the near glory--for such another day never shone from heaven--sought relief in the remote distance,
and slid along the beautiful river Kenmare, insinuating itself among the recesses of the mountains,
till it rested on the green glimmer of the far-off sea. The grandeur was felt, far off as it
was, of that iron-bound coast. Coming round with an easy sweep, as the eyes of an eagle may
do, when hanging motionless aloft he but turns his head, our eyes took in all the mighty range
of the Reeks, and rested in awe on Carran Tual. Wild yet gentle was the blue aerial haze over
the glimpses of the Upper Lake, where soft and sweet, in a girdle of rocks, seemed to be hanging,
now in air and now in water--for all was strangely indistinct in the dim confusion--masses
of green light that might be islands with their lovely trees; but suddenly tipt with fire shone
out the golden pinnacles of the Eagle's Nest; and as again they were tamed by cloud-shadow,
the glow of Purple Mountain for a while enchained our vision, and then left it free to feast
on the forests of Glena, till, wandering at the capricious will of fancy, it floated in delight
over the woods of Mucruss, and long lost among the trembling imagery of the water, found lasting
repose on the steadfast beauty of the sylvan isle of Inisfallen.

But now for the black mass of rapid waters that, murmuring from loch to river, rush roaring
through that rainbow-arch, and bathe the green woods in freshening spray-mist through a loveliest
landscape, that steals along with its meadow-sprinkling trees close to the very shore of Loch
Etive, binding the two lochs together with a sylvan band--her whose calmer spirit never knows
the ebb or flow of tide, and her who fluctuates even when the skies are still with the swelling
and subsiding tumult duly sent up into and recalled down from the silence of her inland solitude.
And now for one pool in that river, called by eminence the Salmon Pool, whose gravelly depths
are sometimes paved with the blue backs of the silver-scaled shiners, all strong as sunbeams,
for a while reposing there, till the river shall blacken in its glee to the floods falling
in Glen-Scrae and Glenorchy, and then will they shoot through the cataract--for 'tis all one
fall between the lochs--passionate of the sweet fresh waters in which the Abbey-Isle reflects
her one ruined tower, or Kilchurn, at all times dim or dark in the shadow of Cruachan, see
his grim turrets, momentarily less grim, imaged in the tremblings of the casual sunshine. Sometimes
they lie like stones, nor, unless you stir them up with a long pole, will they stir in the
gleam, more than if they were shadows breathed from trees when all winds are dead. But at other
times, they are on feed; and then no sooner does the fly drop on the water in its blue and
yellow gaudiness (and oh! but the brown mallard wing is bloody--bloody!) than some snout sucks
it in--some snout of some swine-necked shoulder-bender; and instantly--as by dexterously dropping
your elbow you give him the butt, and strike the barb through his tongue--down the long reach
of the river vista'd along that straight oak-avenue--but with clear space of greensward between
wood and water--shoots the giant steel-stung in his fear, bounding blue-white into the air,
and then down into the liquid element with a plunge as of a man, or rather a horse, till your
heart leaps to your mouth, or, as the Greeks we believe used to say, to your nose, and you
are seen galloping along the banks, by spectators in search of the picturesque, and ignorant
of angling, supposed in the act of making your escape, with an incomprehensible weapon in both
hands, from some rural madhouse.

Eh? eh? not in our hat--not in our waistcoat--not in our jacket--not in our breeches! By the
ghost of Autolycus some pickpocket, while we were moralising, has abstracted our Lascelles!
We may as well tie a stone to each of our feet, and sink away from all sense of misery in the
Salmon Pool. Oh! that it had been our purse! Who cares for a dozen dirty sovereigns and a score
of nasty notes? And what's the use of them to us now, or indeed at any time? And what's the
use of this identical rod? Hang it, if a little thing would not make us break it! A multiplying
reel, indeed! The invention of a fool. The Tent sees not us again; this afternoon we shall
return to Edinburgh. Don't talk to us of flies at the next village. There are no flies at the
village--there is no village. O Beelzebub! O Satan! was ever man tempted as we are tempted?
See--see a Fish--a fine Fish--an enormous Fish--leaping to insult us! Give us our gun that
we may shoot him--no--no, dang guns--and dang this great clumsy rod! There--let it lie there
for the first person that passes--for we swear never to angle more. As for the Awe, we never
liked it--and wonder what infatuation brought us here. We shall be made to pay for this yet--whew!
there was a twinge--that big toe of ours we'll warrant is as red as fire, and we bitterly confess
that we deserve the gout. Och! och! och!

But hark! whoop and hollo, and is that too the music of the hunter's horn? Reverberating among
the woods a well-known voice salutes our ear; and there! bounds Hamish over the rocks like
a chamois taking his pastime. Holding up our LASCELLES! he places it with a few respectful
words--hoping we have not missed it--and standing aloof--leaves us to our own reflections and
our flies. Nor do those amount to remorse--nor these to more than a few dozens. Samson's strength
having been restored--we speak of our rod, mind ye, not of ourselves--we lift up our downcast
eyes, and steal somewhat ashamed a furtive glance at the trees and stones that must have overheard
and overseen all our behaviour. We leave those who have been in anything like the same predicament
to confess--not publicly--there is no occasion for that--nor on their knees--but to their own
consciences, if they have any, their grief and their joy, their guilt, and, we hope, their
gratitude. Transported though they were beyond all bounds, we forgive them; for even those
great masters of wisdom, the Stoics, were not infallible, nor were they always able to sustain,
at their utmost strength, in practice the principles of their philosophy.

Phin! this Rod is thy masterpiece. And what Gut! There she has it! Reel-music for ever! Ten
fathom are run out already--and see how she shoots, Hamish;--such a somerset as that was never
thrown from a spring-board. Just the size for strength and agility--twenty pound to an ounce--jimp
weight, Hamish--ha! Harlequin art thou--or Columbine? Assuredly neither Clown nor Pantaloon.
Now we have turned her ladyship's nose up the stream, her lungs, if she have any, must be beginning
to labour, and we almost hear her snore. What! in the sulks already--sullen among the stones.
But we shall make you mudge, madam, were we to tear the very tongue out of your mouth. Ay,
once more down the middle to the tune of that spirited country-dance--"Off she goes!" Set corners,
and reel! The gaff, Hamish--the gaff! and the landing-net! For here is a shallow of the silver
sand, spreading into the bay of a ford--and ere she recovers from her astonishment, here will
we land her--with a strong pull, a long pull, and a pull altogether--just on the edge of the
greensward--and then smite her on the shoulder, Hamish--and, to make assurance doubly sure,
the net under her tail, and hoist her aloft in the sunshine, a glorious prize, dazzling the
daylight, and giving a brighter verdure to the woods.

He who takes two hours to kill a fish--be its bulk what it may--is no man, and is not worth
his meat, nor the vital air. The proportion is a minute to the pound. This rule were we taught
by the "Best at Most" among British sportsmen--Scrope the Matchless on moor, mountain, river,
loch, or sea; and with exquisite nicety have we now carried it into practice. Away with your
useless steelyards. Let us feel her teeth with our forefinger, and then held out at arm's length--so--we
know by feeling, that she is, as we said soon as we saw her side, a twenty-pounder to a drachm,
and we have been true to time, within two seconds. She has literally no head; but her snout
is in her shoulders. That is the beauty of a fish--high and round shoulders, short-waisted,
no loins, but all body, and not long of terminating--the shorter still the better--in a tail
sharp and pointed as Diana's, when she is crescent in the sky.

And lo, and behold! there is Diana--but not crescent--for round and broad is she as the sun
himself--shining in the south, with as yet a needless light--for daylight has not gone down
in the west--and we can hardly call it gloaming. Chaste and cold though she seem, a nunlike
luminary who has just taken the veil--a transparent veil of fine fleecy clouds--yet, alas!
is she frail as of old, when she descended on the top of Latmos, to hold dalliance with Endymion.
She has absolutely the appearance of being in the family way--and not far from her time. Lo!
two of her children stealing from ether towards her feet. One on her right hand, and another
on her left--the fairest daughters that ever charmed mother's heart--and in heaven called stars.
What a celestial trio the three form in the sky! The face of the moon keeps brightening as
the lesser two twinkle into darker lustre; and now, though day is still lingering, we feel
that it is Night. When the one comes and when the other goes, what eye can note, what tongue
can tell--but what heart feels not in the dewy hush divine--as the power of the beauty of earth
decays over us, and a still dream descends upon us in the power of the beauty of heaven!

But hark! the regular twang and dip of oars coming up the river--and lo! indistinct in the
distance, something moving through the moonshine--and now taking the likeness of a boat--a
barge--with bonneted heads leaning back at every flashing stroke--and, Hamish, list! a choral
song in thine own dear native tongue! Sent hither by the Queen of the sea-fairies to bear back
in state Christopher North to the Tent? No. 'Tis the big coble belonging to the tacksman of
the Awe--and the crew are going to pull her through the first few hours of the night--along
with the flowing tide--up to Kinloch-Etive, to try a cast with their long net at the mouth
of the river, now winding dim like a snake from King's House beneath the Black Mount, and along
the bays at the head of the Loch. A rumour that we were on the river had reached them--and
see an awning of tartan over the stern, beneath which, as we sit, the sun may not smite our
head by day, nor the moon by night. We embark--and descending the river like a dream, rapidly
but stilly, and kept in the middle of the current by cunning helmsman, without aid of idle
oar, all six suspended, we drop along through the sylvan scenery, gliding serenely away back
into the mountain-gloom, and enter into the wider moonshine trembling on the wavy verdure of
the foam-crested sea. May this be Loch-Etive? Yea--verily; but so broad here is its bosom,
and so far spreads the billowy brightness, that we might almost believe that our bark was bounding
over the ocean, and marching merrily on the main. Are we--into such a dream might fancy for
a moment half beguile herself--rowing back, after a day among the savage islanders, to our
ship lying at anchor in the offing, on a voyage of discovery round the world?

Where are all the dogs? Ponto, Piro, Basta, trembling partly with cold, partly with hunger,
partly with fatigue, and partly with fear, among and below the seats of the rowers--with their
noses somewhat uncomfortably laid between their fore-paws on the tarry timbers; but O'Bronte
boldly sitting at our side, and wistfully eyeing the green swell as it heaves beautifully by,
ready at the slightest signal to leap overboard, and wallow like a walrus in the brine, of
which you might almost think he was born and bred, so native seems the element to the "Dowg
o' Dowgs." Ay, these are sea-mews, O'Bronte, wheeling white as silver in the moonshine; but
we shall not shoot them--no--no--no--we will not shoot you, ye images of playful peace, so
fearlessly, nay, so lovingly attending our bark as it bounds over the breasts of the billows,
in motion quick almost as your slowest flight, while ye linger around, and behind, and before
our path, like fair spirits wiling us along up this great Loch, farther and farther through
gloom and glimmer, into the heart of profounder solitude. On what errands of your own are ye
winnowing your way, stooping ever and anon just to dip your wing-tips in the waves, and then
up into the open air--the blue light filling this magnificent hollow--or seen glancing along
the shadows of the mountains as they divide the Loch into a succession of separate bays, and
often seem to block it up, till another moonlight reach is seen extending far beyond, and carries
the imagination on--on--on--into inland recesses that seem to lose at last all connection with
the forgotten sea. All at once the moon is like a ghost;--and we believe--Heaven knows why--in
the authenticity of Ossian's Poems.

Was there ever such a man as Ossian? We devoutly hope there was--for if so, then there were
a prodigious number of fine fellows, besides his Bardship, who after their death figured away
as their glimmering ghosts, with noble effect, among the moonlight mists of the mountains.
The poetry of Ossian has, it is true, since the days of Macpherson, in no way coloured the
poetry of the island; and Mr Wordsworth, who has written beautiful lines about the old Phantom,
states that fact as an argument against its authenticity. He thinks Ossian, as we now possess
him, no poet; and alleges, that if these compositions had been the good things so many people
have thought them, they would, in some way or other, have breathed their spirit over the poetical
genius of the land. Who knows that they may not do so yet? The time may not have come. But
must all true poetry necessarily create imitation, and a school of imitators? One sees no reason
why it must. Besides, the life which the poetry of Ossian celebrates, has utterly passed away;
and the poetry itself, good, bad, or indifferent, is so very peculiar, that to imitate it at
all you must almost transcribe it. That, for a good many years, was often done, but naturally
inspired any other feeling than delight or admiration. But the simple question is, Do the poems
of Ossian delight greatly and widely? We think they do. Nor can we believe that they would
not still delight such a poet as Mr Wordsworth. What dreariness overspreads them all! What
a melancholy spirit shrouds all his heroes, passing before us on the cloud, after all their
battles have been fought, and their tombs raised on the hill! The very picture of the old blind
Hero-bard himself, often attended by the weeping virgins whom war has made desolate, is always
touching, often sublime. The desert is peopled with lamenting mortals, and the mists that wrap
them with ghosts, whose remembrances of this life are all dirge and elegy. True, that the images
are few and endlessly reiterated; but that, we suspect, is the case with all poetry composed
not in a philosophic age. The great and constant appearances of nature suffice, in their simplicity,
for all its purposes. The poet seeks not to vary their character, and his hearers are willing
to be charmed over and over again by the same strains. We believe that the poetry of Ossian
would be destroyed by any greater distinctness or variety of imagery. And if, indeed, Fingal
lived and Ossian sung, we must believe that the old bard was blind; and we suspect that in
such an age, such a man would, in his blindness, think dreamily indeed of the torrents, and
lakes, and heaths, and clouds, and mountains, moons and stars, which he had leapt, swam, walked,
climbed, and gazed on in the days of his rejoicing youth. Then has he no tenderness--no pathos--no
beauty? Alas for thousands of hearts and souls if it be even so! For then are many of their
holiest dreams worthless all, and divinest melancholy a mere complaint of the understanding,
which a bit of philosophical criticism will purge away, as the leech's phial does a disease
of the blood.

Macpherson's "Ossian," is it not poetry? Wordsworth says it is not--but Christopher North says
it is--with all reverence for the King. Let its antiquity be given up--let such a state of
society as is therein described be declared impossible--let all the inconsistencies and violations
of nature ever charged against it be acknowledged--let all its glaring plagiarisms from poetry
of modern date inspire what derision they may--and far worse the perpetual repetition of its
own imbecilities and inanities, wearying one down even to disgust and anger;--yet, in spite
of all, are we not made to feel, not only that we are among the mountains, but to forget that
there is any other world in existence, save that which glooms and glimmers, and wails and raves
around us in mists and clouds, and storms and snows--full of lakes and rivers, sea-intersected
and sea-surrounded, with a sky as troublous as the earth--yet both at times visited with a
mournful beauty that sinks strangely into the soul--while the shadowy life depictured there
eludes not our human sympathies; nor yet, aerial though they be--so sweet and sad are their
voices--do there float by as unbeloved, unpitied, or unhonoured--single, or in bands--the ghosts
of the brave and beautiful; when the few stars are dim, and the moon is felt, not seen, to
be yielding what faint light there may be in the skies.

The boat in a moment is a bagpipe; and not only so, but all the mountains are bagpipes, and
so are the clouds. All the bagpipes in the world are here, and they fill heaven and earth.
'Tis no exaggeration--much less a fiction--but the soul and body of truth. There Hamish stands
stately at the prow; and as the boat hangs by midships on the very point that commands all
the echoes, he fills the whole night with the "Campbells are coming," till the sky yells with
the gathering as of all the Clans. His eyes are triumphantly fixed on ours to catch their emotions;
his fingers cease their twinkling; and still that wild gathering keeps playing of itself among
the mountains--fainter and fainter, as it is flung from cliff to cliff, till it dies away far--far
off--as if in infinitude--sweet even and soft in its evanescence as some lover's lute.

We are now in the bay of Gleno. For though moonlight strangely alters the whole face of nature,
confusing its most settled features, and with a gentle glamoury blending with the greensward
what once was the grey granite, and investing with apparent woodiness what an hour ago was
the desolation of herbless cliffs--yet not all the changes that wondrous nature, in ceaseless
ebb and flow, ever wrought on her works, could metamorphose out of our recognition that Glen,
in which, one night--long--long ago--

    "In life's morning march, when our spirit was young!"

we were visited by a dream--a dream that shadowed forth in its inexplicable symbols the whole
course of our future life--the graves--the tombs where many we loved are now buried--that churchyard,
where we hope and believe that one day our own bones will rest.

But who shouts from the shore, Hamish--and now, as if through his fingers, sends forth a sharp
shrill whistle that pierces the sky? Ah, ha! we ken his shadow in the light, with the roe on
his shoulder. 'Tis the schoolmaster of Gleno, bringing down our quarry to the boat--kilted,
we declare, like a true Son of the Mist. The shore here is shelving but stony, and our prow
is aground. But strong-spined and loined, and strong in their withers, are the M'Dougals of
Lorn; and, wading up to the red hairy knees, he has flung the roe into the boat, and followed
it himself like a deer-hound. So bend to your oars, my hearties--my heroes--the wind freshens,
and the tide strengthens from the sea; and at eight knots an hour we shall sweep along the
shadows, and soon see the lantern, twinkling as from a lighthouse, on the pole of our Tent.

In a boat, upon a great sea-arm, at night, among mountains, who would be so senseless, so soulless
as to speak? The hour has its might,

    "Because not of this noisy world, but silent and divine!"

A sound there is in the sea-green swell, and the hollows of the rocks, that keep muttering
and muttering, as their entrances feel the touch of the tide. But nothing beneath the moon
can be more solemn, now that her aspect is so wan, and that some melancholy spirit has obscured
the lustre of the stars. We feel as if the breath of old elegiac poetry were visiting our slumber.
All is sad within us, yet why we know not; and the sadness is stranger as it is deeper after
a day of almost foolish pastime, spent by a being who believes that he is immortal, and that
this life is but the threshold of a life to come. Poor, puny, and paltry pastimes indeed are
they all! But are they more so than those pursuits of which the moral poet has sung,

    "The paths of glory lead but to the grave!"

Methinks, now, as we are entering into a sabler mass of shadow, that the doctrine of eternal
punishment of sins committed in time--but--

    "Here's a health to all good lasses,
    Here's a health to all good lasses,
    Pledge it merrily, fill your glasses;
    Let the bumper toast go round,
    Let the bumper toast go round!"

Best on your oars, lads. Hamish! the quaich! give each man a caulker, that his oar may send
a bolder twang from its rollock, and our fish-coble walk the waves like a man-of-war's gig,
with the captain on board, going ashore, after a long cruise, to meet his wife. Now she spins!
and lo! lights at Kinloch-Etive, and beyond on the breast of the mountain, bright as Hesperus--the
Pole-star of our Tent!

Well, this is indeed the Londe of Faery! A car with a nag caparisoned at the water edge! On
with the roe, and in with Christopher and the Fish. Now, Hamish, hand us the Crutch. After
a cast or two, which, may they be successful as the night is auspicious, your presence, gentlemen,
will be expected in the Tent. Now, Hamish, handle thou the ribbons--alias the hair-tether--and
we will touch him behind, should he linger, with a weapon that might

    "Create a soul under the ribs of death."

Linger! why the lightning flies from his heels, as he carries us along a fine natural causeway,
like Ossian's car-borne heroes. From the size and state of the stones over which we make such
a clatter, we shrewdly suspect that the parliamentary grant for destroying the old Highland
torrent-roads has not extended its ravages to Glen-Etive. O'Bronte,

    "Like panting Time, toils after us in vain;"

and the pointers are following us by our own scent, and that of the roe, in the distant darkness.
Pull up, Hamish, pull up, or otherwise we shall overshoot our mark, and meet with some accident
or other, perhaps a capsize on Buachaille-Etive, or the Black Mount. We had no idea the circle
of greensward in front of the Tent was so spacious. Why, there is room for the Lord Mayor of
London's state-coach to turn with its eight horses, and that enormous ass, Parson Dillon, on
the dickey. What could have made us think at this moment of London? Certes, the association
of ideas is a droll thing, and also sometimes most magnificent. Dancing in the Tent, among
strange figures! Celebration of the nuptials of some Arab chief, in an oasis in the Great Desert
of Stony Arabia! Heavens! look at Tickler! How he hauls the Hizzies! There is no time to be
lost--he and the Admiral must not have all the sport to themselves; and, by-and-by, spite of
age and infirmity, we shall show the Tent a touch of the Highland Fling. Hollo! you landloupers!
Christopher is upon you--behold the Tenth Avatar incarnated in North.

But what Apparitions at the Tent-door salute our approach?

    "Back step these two fair angels, half afraid
    So suddenly to see the Griesly King!"

Goat-herdesses from the cliffs of Glencreran or Glenco, kilted to the knee, and not unconscious
of their ankles, one twinkle of which is sufficient to bid "Begone dull care" for ever. One
hand on a shoulder of each of the mountain-nymphs--sweet liberties--and then embraced by both,
half in their arms, and half on their bosoms, was ever Old Man so pleasantly let down from
triumphal car, on the soft surface of his mother-earth? Ay, there lies the Red-deer! and what
heaps of smaller slain! But was there ever such a rush of dogs! We shall be extinguished. Down,
dogs, down--nay, ladies and gentlemen, be seated--on one another's knees as before--we beseech
you--we are but men like yourselves--and

    "Without the smile from partial beauty won,
    Oh! what were man?--a world without a sun!"

What it is to be the darling of gods and men, and women and children! Why the very stars burn
brighter--and thou, O Moon! art like the Sun. We foresee a night of dancing and drinking--till
the mountain-dew melt in the lustre of morn. Such a day should have a glorious death--and a
glorious resurrection. Hurra! Hurra!

THE MOORS FOR EVER! THE MOORS! THE MOORS!

HIGHLAND SNOW-STORM.

What do you mean by original genius? By that fine line in the "Pleasures of Hope"--

    "To muse on Nature with a poet's eye?"

Why--genius--one kind of it at least--is transfusion of self into all outward things. The genius
that does that--naturally, but novelly--is original; and now you know the meaning of one kind
of original genius. Have we, then, Christopher North, that gift? Have you? Yea, both of Us.
Our spirits animate the insensate earth, till she speaks, sings, smiles, laughs, weeps, sighs,
groans, goes mad, and dies. Nothing easier, though perhaps it is wicked, than for original
genius like ours, or yours, to drive the earth to distraction. We wave our wizard hand thus--and
lo! list! she is insane. How she howls to heaven, and how the maddened heaven howls back her
frenzy! Two dreadful maniacs raging apart, but in communion, in one vast bedlam! The drift-snow
spins before the hurricane, hissing like a nest of serpents let loose to torment the air. What
fierce flakes! furies! as if all the wasps that ever stung had been revivified, and were now
careering part and parcel of the tempest. We are in a Highland Hut in the midst of mountains.
But no land is to be seen any more than if we were in the middle of the sea. Yet a wan glare
shows that the snow-storm is strangely shadowed by superincumbent cliffs; and though you cannot
see, you hear the mountains. Rendings are going on, frequent, over your head--and all around
the blind wilderness--the thunderous tumblings down of avalanches, mixed with the moanings,
shriekings, and yellings of caves, as if spirits there were angry with the snow-drift choking
up the fissures and chasms in the cliffs. Is that the creaking and groaning, and rooking and
tossing of old trees, afraid of being uprooted and flung into the spate?

    "Red comes the river down, and loud and oft
    The angry spirit of the water shrieks,"

more fearful than at midnight in this night-like day--whose meridian is a total sun eclipse.
The river runs by, blood-like, through the snow--and, short as is the reach you can see through
the flaky gloom, that short reach shows that all his course must be terrible--more and more
terrible--as, gathering his streams like a chieftain his clan--ere long he will sweep shieling,
and hut, and hamlet to the sea, undermining rocks, cutting mounds asunder, and blowing up bridges
that explode into the air with a roar like that of cannon. You sometimes think you hear thunder,
though you know that cannot be--but sublimer than thunder is the nameless noise so like that
of agonised life--that eddies far and wide around--high and huge above--fear all the while
being at the bottom of your heart--an objectless, dim, dreary, undefinable fear, whose troubled
presence--if any mortal feeling be so--is sublime. Your imagination is troubled, and dreams
of death, but of no single corpse, of no single grave. Nor fear you for yourself--for the Hut
in which you thus enjoy the storm is safer than the canopied cliff-calm of the eagle's nest;
but your spirit is convulsed from its deepest and darkest foundations, and all that lay hidden
there of the wild and wonderful, the pitiful and the strange, the terrible and pathetic, is
now upturned in dim confusion, and imagination, working among the hoarded gatherings of the
heart, creates out of them moods kindred and congenial with the hurricane, intensifying the
madness of the heaven and the earth, till that which sees and that which is seen, that which
hears and that which is heard, undergo alternate mutual transfiguration; and the blind Roaring
Day--at once substance, shadow, and soul--is felt to be one with ourselves--the blended whole
either the Live-Dead, or the Dead-Alive.

We are in a Highland Hut--if we called it a Shieling we did so merely because we love the sound
of the word Shieling, and the image it at once brings to eye and ear--the rustling of leaves
on a summer sylvan bower, by simple art slightly changed from the form of the growth of nature,
or the waving of fern on the turf-roof and turf-walls, all covered with wildflowers and mosses,
and moulded by one single season into a knoll-like beauty, beside its guardian birch-tree,
insupportable to all evil spirits, but with its silvery stem and drooping tresses dear to the
Silent People that won in the land of peace. Truly this is not the sweet Shieling-season, when,
far away from all other human dwellings, on the dip of some great mountain, quite at the head
of a day's-journey-long glen, the young herdsman, haply all alone, without one single being
with him that has the use of speech, liveth for months retired far from kirk and cross--Luath
his sole companion--his sole care the pasturing herds--the sole sounds he hears the croak of
the raven on the cliff, or bark of the eagle in the sky. O sweet, solitary lot of lover! Haply
in some oasis in the wilderness, some steadfast gleam of emerald light amid the hyacinthine-hue
of the heather, that young herdsman hath pitched his tent, by one Good Spirit haunted morning,
noon, and night, through the sunny, moonlight, starry months,--the Orphan-girl, whom years
ago her dying father gave into his arms--the old blind soldier--knowing that the boy would
shield her innocence when every blood-relation had been buried--now Orphan-girl no more, but
growing there like a lily at the Shieling door, or singing within sweetlier than any bird--the
happiest of all living things--her own Ronald's dark-haired Bride.

We are in a Highland Hut among a Highland Snow-storm--and all at once amidst the roar of the
merciless hurricane we remember the words of Burns--the peerless Peasant. Simple as they are,
with what profound pathos are they charged!

    Ev'n you on murdering errands toil'd,
    Lone from your savage homes exiled,
    The blood-stain'd roost, and sheep-cot spoil'd,
                  My heart forgets,
    While pitiless the tempest wild
                  Sore on you beats."

Burns is our Lowland bard--but poetry is poetry all over the world, when streamed from the
life-blood of the human heart. So sang the Genius of inspired humanity in his bleak "auld clay-biggin,"
on one of the braes of Coila, and now our heart responds the strain, high up among the Celtic
cliffs, central among a sea of mountains hidden in a snow-storm that enshrouds the day. Ay--the
one single door of this Hut--the one single "winnock," does "rattle"--by fits--as the blast
smites it, in spite of the white mound drifted hill-high all round the buried dwelling. Dim
through the peat-reek cower the figures in tartan--fear has hushed the cry of the infant in
the swinging cradle--and all the other imps are mute. But the household is thinner than usual
at the meal-hour; and feet that loved to follow the red-deer along the bent, now fearless of
pitfalls, since the first lour of morning light have been traversing the tempest. The shepherds,
who sit all day long when summer hues are shining, and summer flowerets are blowing, almost
idle in their plaids, beneath the shadow of some rock watching their flocks feeding above,
around, and below, now expose their bold breasts to all the perils of the pastoral life. This
is our Arcadia--a realm of wrath--woe--danger, and death. Here are bred the men whose blood--when
the bagpipe blows--is prodigally poured forth on a thousand shores. The limbs strung to giant-force
by such snows as these, moving in line of battle within the shadow of the Pyramids,

    "Brought from the dust the sound of liberty,"

while the Invincible standard was lowered before the heroes of the Old Black Watch, and victory
out of the very heart of defeat arose on "that thrice-repeated cry" that quails all foes that
madly rush against the banners of Albyn. The storm that has frozen in his eyrie the eagle's
wing, driven the deer to the comb beneath the cliffs, and all night imprisoned the wild-cat
in his cell, hand-in-hand as is their wont when crossing a stream or flood, bands of Highlanders
now face in its strongholds all over the ranges of mountains, come it from the wrathful inland
or the more wrathful sea.

    "They think upon the ourie cattle
    And silly sheep,"

and man's reason goes to the help of brute instinct.

How passing sweet is that other stanza, heard like a low hymn amidst the noise of the tempest!

The whole earth is for a moment green again--trees whisper--streamlets murmur--and the "merry
month o' Spring" is musical through all her groves. But in another moment we know that almost
all those sweet-singers are now dead--or that they "cow'r the chittering wing"--never more
to flutter through the woodlands, and "close the ee" that shall never more be re-illumined
with love, when the Season of Nests is at hand, and bush, tree, and tower are again all a-twitter
with the survivors of some gentler climate.

The poet's heart, humanised to utmost tenderness by the beauty of its own merciful thoughts,
extends its pity to the poor beasts of prey. Each syllable tells--each stroke of the poet-painter's
pencil depicts the life and sufferings of the wretched creatures. And then, feeling that at
such an hour all life is subject to one lot, how profound the pathos reflected back upon our
own selves and our mortal condition, by these few simplest words,--

              "My heart forgets,
    While pitiless the tempest wild
              Sore on you beats!"

They go to help the "ourie cattle" and the "silly sheep;" but who knows that they are not sent
on an errand of higher mercy, by Him whose ear has not been shut to the prayer almost frozen
on the lips of them about to perish!--an incident long forgotten, though on the eve of that
day on which the deliverance happened, so passionately did we all regard it, that we felt that
interference providential--as if we had indeed seen the hand of God stretched down through
the mist and snow from heaven. We all said that it would never leave our memory; yet all of
us soon forgot it--but now, while the tempest howls, it seems again of yesterday.

One family lived in Glencreran, and another in Glenco--the families of two brothers--seldom
visiting each other on working-days--seldom meeting even on Sabbaths, for theirs was not the
same parish-kirk--seldom coming together on rural festivals or holidays, for in the Highlands
now these are not so frequent as of yore; yet all these sweet seldoms, taken together, to loving
hearts made a happy many, and thus, though each family passed its life in its own home, there
were many invisible threads stretched out through the intermediate air, connecting the two
dwellings together--as the gossamer keeps floating from one tree to another, each with its
own secret nest. And nest-like both dwellings were. That in Glenco, built beneath a treeless
but high-heathered rock--lown in all storms--with greensward and garden on a slope down to
a rivulet, the clearest of the clear (oh! once woefully reddened!) and growing--so it seems
in the mosses of its own roof, and the huge stones that overshadow it--out of the earth. That
in Glencreran, more conspicuous, on a knoll among the pastoral meadows, midway between mountain
and mountain, so that the grove which shelters it, except when the sun is shining high, is
darkened by their meeting shadows, and dark indeed even in the sunshine, for 'tis a low but
wide-armed grove of old oak-like pines. A little further down, and Glencreran is very sylvan;
but this dwelling is the highest up of all, the first you descend upon, near the foot of that
wild hanging staircase between you and Glen-Etive; and, except this old oak-like grove of pines,
there is not a tree, and hardly a bush, on bank or brae, pasture or hay-field, though these
are kept by many a rill there mingling themselves into one stream, in a perpetual lustre, that
seems to be as native to the grass as its light is to the glow-worm. Such are the two Huts--for
they are huts and no more--and you may see them still, if you know how to discover the beautiful
sights of nature from descriptions treasured in your heart--and if the spirit of change, now
nowhere at rest on the earth, not even in its most solitary places, have not swept from the
scenes they beautified the humble but hereditary dwellings that ought to be allowed, in the
fulness of the quiet time, to relapse back into the bosom of nature, through insensible and
unperceived decay.

These Huts belonged to brothers--and each had an only child--a son and a daughter--born on
the same day--and now blooming on the verge of youth. A year ago, and they were but mere children--but
what wondrous growth of frame and spirit does nature at that season of life often present before
our eyes! So that we almost see the very change going on between morn and morn, and feel that
these objects of our affection are daily brought closer to ourselves, by partaking daily more
and more in all our most sacred thoughts, in our cares and in our duties, and in knowledge
of the sorrows as well as the joys of our common lot. Thus had these cousins grown up before
their parents' eyes, Flora Macdonald--a name hallowed of yore--the fairest, and Ranald Cameron,
the boldest of all the living flowers in Glenco and Glencreran. It was now their seventeenth
birthday, and never had a winter sun smiled more serenely over a hush of snow. Flora, it had
been agreed on, was to pass that day in Glencreran, and Ranald to meet her among the mountains,
that he might bring her down the many precipitous passes to his parents' hut. It was the middle
of February, and the snow had lain for weeks with all its drifts unchanged, so calm had been
the weather, and so continued the frost. At the same hour, known by horologe on the cliff touched
by the finger of dawn, the happy creatures left each their own glen, and mile after mile of
the smooth surface glided away past their feet, almost as the quiet water glides by the little
boat that in favouring breezes walks merrily along the sea. And soon they met at the trysting-place--a
bank of birch-trees beneath a cliff that takes its name from the Eagles.

On their meeting seemed not to them the whole of nature suddenly inspired with joy and beauty?
Insects unheard by them before, hummed and glittered in the air--from tree-roots, where the
snow was thin, little flowers, or herbs flower-like, now for the first time were seen looking
out as if alive--the trees themselves seemed budding as if it were already spring--and rare
as in that rocky region are the birds of song, a faint trill for a moment touched their ears,
and the flutter of a wing, telling them that somewhere near there was preparation for a nest.
Deep down beneath the snow they listened to the tinkle of rills unreached by the frost--and
merry, thought they, was the music of these contented prisoners. Not Summer's self, in its
deepest green, so beautiful had ever been to them before, as now the mild white of Winter;
and as their eyes were lifted up to heaven, when had they ever seen before a sky of such perfect
blue, a sun so gentle in its brightness, or altogether a week-day in any season, so like a
Sabbath in its stillness, so like a holyday in its joy! Lovers were they--although as yet they
scarcely knew it; for from love only could have come such bliss as now was theirs, a bliss
that while it beautified was felt to come from the skies.

Flora sang to Ranald many of her old songs to those wild Gaelic airs that sound like the sighing
of winds among fractured cliffs, or the branches of storm-tossed trees when the subsiding tempest
is about to let them rest. Monotonous music! But irresistible over the heart it has once awakened
and enthralled, so sincere seems to be the mournfulness it breathes--a mournfulness brooding
and feeding on the same note that is at once its natural expression and its sweetest aliment--of
which the singer never wearieth in her dream, while her heart all the time is haunted by all
that is most piteous, by the faces of the dead in their paleness returning to the shades of
life, only that once more they may pour from their fixed eyes those strange showers of unaccountable
tears!

How merry were they between those mournful airs! How Flora trembled to see her lover's burning
brow and flashing eyes, as he told her tales of great battles fought in foreign lands, far
across the sea--tales which he had drunk in with greedy ears from the old heroes scattered
all over Lochaber and Badenoch, on the brink of the grave still garrulous of blood!

    "The sun sat high in his meridian tower,"

but time had not been with the youthful lovers, and the blessed beings believed that 'twas
but a little hour since beneath the Eagle Cliff they had met in the prime of the morn!

The boy starts to his feet--and his keen eye looks along the ready rifle--for his sires had
all been famous deer-stalkers, and the passion of the chase was hereditary in his blood, Lo!
a deer from Dalness, hound-driven or sullenly astray, slowly bearing his antlers up the glen,
then stopping for a moment to snuff the air, and then away--away! The rifle-shot rings dully
from the scarce echoing snow-cliffs, and the animal leaps aloft, struck by a certain but not
sudden death-wound. Oh! for Fingal now to pull him down like a wolf! But labouring and lumbering
heavily along, the snow spotted as he bounds with blood, the huge animal at last disappears
round some rocks at the head of the glen. "Follow me, Flora!" the boy-hunter cries--and flinging
down their plaids, they turn their bright faces to the mountain, and away up the long glen
after the stricken deer. Fleet was the mountain-girl--and Ranald, as he ever and anon looked
back to wave her on, with pride admired her lightsome motion as she bounded along the snow.
Redder and redder grew that snow, and more heavily trampled, as they winded round the rocks.
Yonder is the deer staggering up the mountain, not half a mile off--now standing at bay, as
if before his swimming eyes came Fingal, the terror of the forest, whose howl was known to
all the echoes, and quailed the herd while their antlers were yet afar off. "Rest, Flora! rest!
while I fly to him with my rifle--and shoot him through the heart!"

Up--up--up the interminable glen, that kept winding and winding round many a jutting promontory,
and many a castellated cliff, the red-deer kept dragging his gore-oozing bulk, sometimes almost
within, and then, for some hundreds of yards, just beyond rifle-shot; while the boy, maddened
by the chase, pressed forwards, now all alone, nor any more looking behind for Flora, who had
entirely disappeared; and thus he was hurried on for miles by the whirlwind of passion--till
at last he struck the noble quarry, and down sank the antlers in the snow, while the air was
spurned by the convulsive beatings of feet. Then leaped Ranald upon the Red-deer like a beast
of prey, and lifted up a look of triumph to the mountain-tops.

Where is Flora? Her lover has forgotten her--and he is alone--nor knows it--he and the Red-deer--an
enormous animal--fast stiffening in the frost of death.

Some large flakes of snow are in the air, and they seem to waver and whirl, though an hour
ago there was not a breath. Faster they fall and faster--the flakes are almost as large as
leaves--and overhead whence so suddenly has come that huge yellow cloud? "Flora, where are
you? where are you, Flora?" and from the huge hide the boy leaps up, and sees that no Flora
is at hand. But yonder is a moving speck far off upon the snow! 'Tis she--'tis she--and again
Ranald turns his eyes upon the quarry, and the heart of the hunter burns within him like a
new-stirred fire. Shrill as the eagle's cry disturbed in his eyrie, he sends a shout down the
glen--and Flora, with cheeks pale and bright by fits, is at last at his side. Panting and speechless
she stands--and then dizzily sinks on his breast. Her hair is ruffled by the wind that revives
her, and her face all moistened by the snow-flakes, now not falling but driven--for the day
has undergone a dismal change, and all over the skies are now lowering savage symptoms of a
fast-coming night-storm.

Bare is poor Flora's head, and sorely drenched her hair, that an hour or two ago glittered
in the sunshine. Her shivering frame misses now the warmth of the plaid, which almost no cold
can penetrate, and which had kept the vital current flowing freely in many a bitter blast.
What would the miserable boy give now for the coverings lying far away, which, in his foolish
passion, he flung down to chase that fatal deer! "Oh! Flora! if you would not fear to stay
here by yourself--under the protection of God, who surely will not forsake you--soon will I
go and come from the place where our plaids are lying; and under the shelter of the deer we
may be able to outlive the hurricane--you wrapped up in them--and folded--O my dearest sister--in
my arms!"--"I will go with you down the glen, Ranald!" and she left his breast--but, weak as
a day-old lamb, tottered and sank down on the snow. The cold--intense as if the air were ice--had
chilled her very heart, after the heat of that long race; and it was manifest that here she
must be for the night--to live or to die. And the night seemed already come, so full was the
lift of snow; while the glimmer every moment became gloomier, as if the day were expiring long
before its time. Howling at a distance down the glen was heard a sea-born tempest from the
Linnhe-Loch, where now they both knew the tide was tumbling in, bringing with it sleet and
snow-blasts from afar; and from the opposite quarter of the sky an inland tempest was raging
to meet it, while every lesser glen had its own uproar, so that on all hands they were environed
with death.

"I will go--and, till I return, leave you with God."--"Go, Ranald!" and he went and came--as
if he had been endowed with the raven's wings!

Miles away--and miles back had he flown--and an hour had not been with his going and his coming--but
what a dreary wretchedness meanwhile had been hers! She feared that she was dying--that the
cold snow-storm was killing her--and that she would never more see Ranald, to say to him farewell.
Soon as he was gone, all her courage had died. Alone, she feared death, and wept to think how
hard it was for one so young thus miserably to die. He came--and her whole being was changed.
Folded up in both the plaids, she felt resigned. "Oh! kiss me--kiss me, Ranald--for your love--great
as it is--is not as my love. You must never forget me, Ranald--when your poor Flora is dead."

Religion with these two young creatures was as clear as the light of the Sabbath-day--and their
belief in heaven just the same as in earth. The will of God they thought of just as they thought
of their parents' will--and the same was their loving obedience to its decrees. If she was
to die--supported now by the presence of her brother--Flora was utterly resigned; if she were
to live, her heart imaged to itself the very forms of her grateful worship. But all at once
she closed her eyes--ceased breathing--and, as the tempest howled and rumbled in the gloom
that fell around them like blindness, Ranald almost sank down, thinking that she was dead.

"Wretched sinner that I am!--my wicked madness brought her here to die of cold!" And he smote
his breast--and tore his hair--and feared to look up, lest the angry eye of God were looking
on him through the storm.

All at once, without speaking a word, Ranald lifted Flora in his arms, and walked away up the
glen--here almost narrowed into a pass. Distraction gave him supernatural strength, and her
weight seemed that of a child. Some walls of what had once been a house, he had suddenly remembered,
were but a short way off--whether or not they had any roof, he had forgotten; but the thought
even of such shelter seemed a thought of salvation. There it was--a snow-drift at the opening
that had once been a door--snow up the holes once windows--the wood of the roof had been carried
off for fuel, and the snow-flakes were falling in, as if they would soon fill up the inside
of the ruin. The snow in front was all trampled as if by sheep; and carrying in his burden
under the low lintel, he saw the place was filled with a flock that had foreknown the hurricane,
and that all huddled together looked on him as on the shepherd come to see how they were faring
in the storm.

And a young shepherd he was, with a lamb apparently dying in his arms. All colour--all motion--all
breath seemed to be gone--and yet something convinced his heart that she was yet alive. The
ruined hut was roofless, but across an angle of the walls some pine-branches had been flung
as a sort of shelter for the sheep or cattle that might repair thither in cruel weather--some
pine-branches left by the woodcutters who had felled the few trees that once stood at the very
head of the glen. Into that corner the snow-drift had not yet forced its way, and he sat down
there with Flora in the cherishing of his embrace, hoping that the warmth of his distracted
heart might be felt by her who was as cold as a corpse. The chill air was somewhat softened
by the breath of the huddled flock, and the edge of the cutting wind blunted by the stones.
It was a place in which it seemed possible that she might revive--miserable as it was with
mire-mixed snow--and almost as cold as one supposes the grave. And she did revive--and under
the half-open lids the dim blue appeared to be not yet life-deserted. It was yet but the afternoon--night-like
though it was--and he thought, as he breathed upon her lips, that a faint red returned, and
that they felt the kisses he dropt on them to drive death away.

"Oh! father, go seek for Ranald, for I dreamt to-night he was perishing in the snow!"--"Flora,
fear not--God is with us." "Wild swans, they say, are come to Loch-Phoil--let us go, Ranald,
and see them--but no rifle--for why kill creatures said to be so beautiful?" Over them where
they lay bended down the pine-branch roof, as if it would give way beneath the increasing weight;--but
there it still hung--though the drift came over their feet and up to their knees, and seemed
stealing upwards to be their shroud. "Oh! I am overcome with drowsiness, and fain would be
allowed to sleep. Who is disturbing me--and what noise is this in our house?"--"Fear not--fear
not, Flora--God is with us." "Mother! am I lying in your arms? My father surely is not in the
storm! Oh! I have had a most dreadful dream!" and with such mutterings as these Flora relapsed
again into that perilous sleep--which soon becomes that of death.

Night itself came--but Flora and Ranald knew it not--and both lay now motionless in one snow-shroud.
Many passions--though earth-born, heavenly all--pity, and grief, and love, and hope, and at
last despair--had prostrated the strength they had so long supported; and the brave boy--who
had been for some time feeble as a very child after a fever--with a mind confused and wandering,
and in its perplexities sore afraid of some nameless ill, had submitted to lay down his head
beside his Flora's, and had soon become like her insensible to the night and all its storms!

Bright was the peat-fire in the hut of Flora's parents in Glenco--and they were among the happiest
of the humbly happy, blessing this the birthday of their blameless child. They thought of her
singing her sweet songs by the fireside of the hut in Glencreran--and tender thoughts of her
cousin Ranald were with them in their prayers. No warning came to their ears in the sugh or
the howl; for Fear it is that creates its own ghosts, and all its own ghost-like visitings,
and they had seen their Flora in the meekness of the morning, setting forth on her way over
the quiet mountains, like a fawn to play. Sometimes too Love, who starts at shadows as if they
were of the grave, is strangely insensible to realities that might well inspire dismay. So
was it now with the dwellers in the hut at the head of Glencreran. Their Ranald had left them
in the morning--night had come, and he and Flora were not there--but the day had been almost
like a summer-day, and in their infatuation they never doubted that the happy creatures had
changed their minds, and that Flora had returned with him to Glenco. Ranald had laughingly
said, that haply he might surprise the people in that glen by bringing back to them Flora on
her birthday--and, strange though it afterwards seemed to her to be, that belief prevented
one single fear from touching his mother's heart, and she and her husband that night lay down
in untroubled sleep.

And what could have been done for them, had they been told by some good or evil spirit that
their children were in the clutches of such a night? As well seek for a single bark in the
middle of the misty main! But the inland storm had been seen brewing among the mountains round
King's House, and hut had communicated with hut, though far apart in regions where the traveller
sees no symptoms of human life. Down through the long cliff-pass of Mealanumy, between Buachaille-Etive
and the Black Mount, towards the lone House of Dalness, that lives in everlasting shadows,
went a band of shepherds, trampling their way across a hundred frozen streams. Dalness joined
its strength--and then away over the drift-bridged chasms toiled that Gathering, with their
sheep-dogs scouring the loose snows--in the van, Fingal the Red Reaver, with his head aloft
on the look-out for deer, grimly eyeing the Correi where last he tasted blood. All "plaided
in their tartan array," these shepherds laughed at the storm--and hark! you hear the bagpipe
play--the music the Highlanders love both in war and in peace.

    "They think then of the ourie cattle,
                  And silly sheep;"

and though they ken 'twill be a moonless night--for the snow-storm will sweep her out of heaven--up
the mountain and down the glen they go, marking where flock and herd have betaken themselves,
and now, at nightfall, unafraid of that blind hollow, they descend into the depth where once
stood the old Grove of Pines. Following the dogs, who know their duties in their instinct,
the band, without seeing it, are now close to that ruined hut. Why bark the sheep-dogs so--and
why howls Fingal, as if some spirit passed athwart the night? He scents the dead body of the
boy who so often had shouted him on in the forest, when the antlers went by! Not dead--nor
dead she who is on his bosom. Yet life in both is frozen--and will the iced blood in their
veins ever again be thawed? Almost pitch-dark is the roofless ruin--and the frightened sheep
know not what is the terrible Shape that is howling there. But a man enters, and lifts up one
of the bodies, giving it into the arms of them at the doorway--and then lifts up the other;
and, by the flash of a rifle, they see that it is Ranald Cameron and Flora Macdonald, seemingly
both frozen to death. Some of those reeds that the shepherds burn in their huts are kindled,
and in that small light they are assured that such are the corpses. But that noble dog knows
that death is not there--and licks the face of Ranald, as if he would restore life to his eyes.
Two of the shepherds know well how to fold the dying in their plaids--how gentliest to carry
them along; for they had learnt it on the field of victorious battle, when, without stumbling
over the dead and wounded, they bore away the shattered body--yet living--of the youthful warrior,
who had shown that of such a Clan, he was worthy to be the Chief.

The storm was with them all the way down the glen--nor could they have heard each other's voices
had they spoke--but mutely they shifted the burden from strong hand to hand--thinking of the
Hut in Glenco, and of what would be felt there on their arrival with the dying or dead. Blind
people walk through what to them is the night of crowded daystreets--unpausing turn round corners--unhesitatingly
plunge down steep stairs--wind their way fearlessly through whirlwinds of life--and reach in
their serenity, each one unharmed, his own obscure house. For God is with the blind. So is
he with all who walk on works of mercy. This saving band had no fear--and therefore there was
no danger--on the edge of the pitfall or the cliff. They knew the countenances of the mountains
shown momentarily by ghastly gleamings through the fitful night, and the hollow sound of each
particular stream beneath the snow at places where in other weather there was a pool or a waterfall.
The dip of the hills, in spite of the drifts, familiar to their feet, did not deceive them
now; and then, the dogs in their instinct were guides that erred not, and as well as the shepherds
knew it themselves did Fingal know that they were anxious to reach Glenco. He led the way,
as if he were in moonlight; and often stood still when they were shifting their burden, and
whined as if in grief. He knew where the bridges were--stones or logs; and he rounded the marshes
where at springs the wild-fowl feed. And thus Instinct, and Reason, and Faith conducted the
saving band along--and now they are at Glenco--and at the door of the Hut.

To life were brought the dead; and there at midnight sat they up like ghosts. Strange seemed
they--for a while--to each other's eyes--and at each other they looked as if they had forgotten
how dearly once they loved. Then as if in holy fear they gazed on each other's faces, thinking
that they had awoke together in heaven. "Flora!" said Ranald--and that sweet word, the first
he had been able to speak, reminded him of all that had passed, and he knew that the God in
whom they had put their trust had sent them deliverance. Flora, too, knew her parents, who
were on their knees--and she strove to rise up and kneel down beside them--but she was powerless
as a broken reed--and when she thought to join with them in thanksgiving, her voice was gone.
Still as death sat all the people in the hut--and one or two who were fathers were not ashamed
to weep.

Who were they--the solitary pair--all alone by themselves save a small image of her on whose
breast it lay--whom--seven summers after--we came upon in our wanderings, before their Shieling
in Correi-Vollach at the foot of Ben Chrulas, who sees his shadow in a hundred lochs? Who but
Ranald and Flora!

       *       *       *       *       *

Nay, dry up--Daughter of our Age, dry up thy tears! and we shall set a vision before thine
eyes to fill them with unmoistened light.

Oft before have those woods and waters--those clouds and mountains--that sun and sky, held
thy spirit in Elysium,--thy spirit, that then was disembodied, and living in the beauty and
the glory of the elements. 'TIS WINDERMERE--WINDERMERE! Never canst thou have forgotten those
more than fortunate--those thrice-blessed Isles! But when last we saw them within the still
heaven of thy smiling eyes, summer suns had overloaded them with beauty, and they stooped their
flowers and foliage down to the blushing, the burning deep, that glowed in its transparency
with other groves as gorgeous as themselves, the whole mingling mass of reality and of shadow
forming one creation. But now, lo! Windermere in Winter. All leafless now the groves that girdled
her as if shifting rainbows were in love perpetually letting fall their colours on the Queen
of Lakes. Gone now are her banks of emerald that carried our calm gazings with them, sloping
away back into the cerulean sky. Her mountains, shadowy in sunshine, and seeming restless as
seas, where are they now?--The cloud-cleaving cliffs that shot up into the blue region where
the buzzard sailed? All gone. But mourn not for that loss. Accustom thine eye--and through
it thy soul, to that transcendent substitution, and deeply will they be reconciled. Sawest
thou ever the bosom of the Lake hushed into profounder rest? No white-winged pinnace glides
through the sunshine--no clanking oar is heard leaving or approaching cape, point, or bay--no
music of voice, stop, or string, wakens the sleeping echoes. How strangely dim and confused
on the water the fantastic frostwork imagery, yet more steadfastly hanging there than ever
hung the banks of summer! For all one sheet of ice, now clear as the Glass of Glamoury in which
that lord of old beheld his Geraldine--is Windermere, the heaven-loving and the heaven-beloved.
Not a wavelet murmurs in all her bays, from the sylvan Brathay to where the southern straits
narrow into a river--now chained too the Leven on his sylvan course towards that perilous Estuary
afar off raging on its wreck-strewn sands. The frost came after the last fall of snow--and
not a single flake ever touched that surface; and now that you no longer miss the green twinkling
of the large July leaves, does not imagination love those motionless frozen forests, cold but
not dead, serene but not sullen, inspirative in the strangeness of their appareling of wild
thoughts about the scenery of foreign climes, far away among the regions of the North, where
Nature works her wonders aloof from human eyes, and that wild architect Frost, during the absence
of the sun, employs his night of months in building and dissolving his ice-palaces, magnificent
beyond the reach of any power set to work at the bidding of earth's crowned and sceptred kings?
All at once a hundred houses, high up among the hills, seem on fire. The setting sun has smitten
them, and the snow-tracts are illuminated by harmless conflagrations. Their windows are all
lighted up by a lurid splendour, in its strong suddenness sublime. But look, look we beseech
you, at the sun--the sunset--the sunset region--and all that kindred and corresponding heaven,
effulgent where a minute ago lay in its cold glitter the blue bosom of the lake. Who knows
the laws of light and the perpetual miracle of their operation? God--not thou. The snow-mountains
are white no more, but gorgeous in their colouring as the clouds. Lo! Pavey-Ark--magnificent
range of cliffs--seeming to come forward, while you gaze!--How it glows with a rosy light,
as if a flush of flowers decked the precipice in that delicate splendour! Langdale-Pikes, methinks,
are tinged with finest purple, and the thought of violets is with us as we gaze on the tinted
bosom of the mountains dearest to the setting sun. But that long broad slip of orange-coloured
sky is yellowing with its reflection almost all the rest of our Alps--all but yon stranger--the
summit of some mountain belonging to another region--ay--the Great Gabel--silent now as sleep--when
last we clomb his cliffs, thundering in the mists of all his cataracts. In his shroud he stands
pallid like a ghost. Beyond the reach of the setting sun he lours in his exclusion from the
rejoicing light, and imagination personifying his solitary vastness into forsaken life, pities
the doom of the forlorn Giant. Ha! just as the eye of day is about to shut, one smile seems
sent afar to that lonesome mountain, and a crown of crimson encompasses his forehead.

On which of the two sunsets art thou now gazing? Thou who art to our old loving eyes so like
the "mountain nymph, sweet Liberty?" On the sunset in the heaven--or the sunset in the lake?
The divine truth is--O Daughter of our Age!--that both sunsets are but visions of our own spirits.
Again both are gone from the outward world--and nought remains but a forbidding frown of the
cold bleak snow. But imperishable in thy imagination will both sunsets be--and though it will
sometimes retire into the recesses of thy memory, and lie there among the unsuspected treasures
of forgotten imagery that have been unconsciously accumulating there since first those gentle
eyes of thine had perfect vision given to their depths--yet mysteriously brought back from
vanishment by some one single silent thought, to which power has been yielded over that bright
portion of the Past, will both of them sometimes reappear to thee in solitude--or haply when
in the very heart of life. And then surely a few tears will fall for sake of him--then no more
seen--by whose side thou stoodest, when that double sunset enlarged thy sense of beauty, and
made thee in thy father's eyes the sweetest--best--and brightest poetess--whose whole life
is musical inspiration--ode, elegy, and hymn, sung not in words but in looks--sigh-breathed
or speechlessly distilled in tears flowing from feelings the farthest in this world from grief.

So much, though but little, for the beautiful--with, perhaps, a tinge of the sublime. Are the
two emotions different and distinct--think'st thou, O! metaphysical critic of the gruesome
countenance--or modifications of one and the same? 'Tis a puzzling question--and we, Sphinx,
might wait till doomsday, before you, Oedipus, could solve the enigma. Certainly a Rose is
one thing and Mount Ætna is another--an antelope and an elephant--an insect and a man-of-war,
both sailing in the sun--a little lucid well in which the fairies bathe, and the Polar Sea
in which Leviathan is "wallowing unwieldy, enormous in his gait"--the jewelled finger of a
virgin bride, and grim Saturn with his ring--the upward eye of a kneeling saint, and a comet
"that from his horrid hair shakes pestilence and war." But let the rose bloom on the mouldering
ruins of the palace of some great king--among the temples of Balbec or Syrian Tadmor--and in
its beauty, methinks, 'twill be also sublime. See the antelope bounding across a raging chasm--up
among the region of eternal snows on Mont Blanc--and deny it, if you please--but assuredly
we think that there is sublimity in the fearless flight of that beautiful creature, to whom
nature grudged not wings, but gave instead the power of plumes to her small delicate limbs,
unfractured by alighting among the pointed rocks. All alone, by your single solitary self,
in some wide, lifeless desert, could you deny sublimity to the unlooked-for hum of the tiniest
insect, or to the sudden shiver of the beauty of his gauze-wings? Not you, indeed. Stooping
down to quench your thirst in that little lucid well where the fairies bathe, what if you saw
the image of the evening star shining in some strange subterranean world? We suspect that you
would hold in your breath, and swear devoutly that it was sublime. Dead on the very evening
of her marriage day is that virgin bride whose delicacy was so beautiful; and as she lies in
her white wedding garments that serve for a shroud, that emblem of eternity and of eternal
love, the ring, upon her finger--with its encased star shining brightly now that her eyes,
once stars, are closed--would, methinks, be sublime to all Christian hearts. In comparison
with all these beautiful sublimities, Mount Ætna, the elephant, the man-of-war, Leviathan swimming
the ocean-stream, Saturn with his ring, and with his horrid hair the comet--might be all less
than nothings. Therefore beauty and sublimity are twin-feelings--one and the same birth--seldom
inseparable;--if you still doubt it, become a fire-worshipper, and sing your morning and evening
orisons to the rising and the setting sun.

THE HOLY CHILD.

This house of ours is a prison--this Study of ours a cell. Time has laid his fetters on our
feet--fetters fine as the gossamer, but strong as Samson's ribs, silken-soft to wise submission,
but to vain impatience galling as cankered wound that keeps ceaselessly eating into the bone.
But while our bodily feet are thus bound by an inevitable and inexorable law, our mental wings
are free as those of the lark, the dove, or the eagle--and they shall be expanded as of yore,
in calm or tempest, now touching with their tips the bosom of this dearly-beloved earth, and
now aspiring heavenwards, beyond the realms of mist and cloud, even unto the very core of the
still heart of that otherwise unapproachable sky which graciously opens to receive us on our
flight, when, disencumbered of the burden of all grovelling thoughts, and strong in spirituality,
we exult to soar

    "Beyond this visible diurnal sphere,"

nearing and nearing the native region of its own incomprehensible being.

Now touching, we said, with their tips the bosom of this dearly-beloved earth! How sweet that
attraction to imagination's wings! How delightful in that lower flight to skim along the green
ground, or as now along the soft-bosomed beauty of the virgin snow! We were asleep all night
long--sound asleep as children--while the flakes were falling, "and soft as snow on snow" were
all the descendings of our untroubled dreams. The moon and all her stars were willing that
their lustre should be veiled by that peaceful shower; and now the sun, pleased with the purity
of the morning earth, all white as innocence, looks down from heaven with a meek unmelting
light, and still leaves undissolved the stainless splendour. There is Frost in the air--but
he "does his spiriting gently," studding the ground-snow thickly with diamonds, and shaping
the tree-snow according to the peculiar and characteristic beauty of the leaves and sprays,
on which it has alighted almost as gently as the dews of spring. You know every kind of tree
still by its own spirit showing itself through that fairy veil--momentarily disguised from
recognition--but admired the more in the sweet surprise with which again your heart salutes
its familiar branches, all fancifully ornamented with their snow-foliage, that murmurs not
like the green leaves of summer, that like the yellow leaves of autumn strews not the earth
with decay, but often melts away into changes so invisible and inaudible, that you wonder to
find that it is all vanished, and to see the old tree again standing in its own faint-green
glossy bark, with its many million buds, which perhaps fancy suddenly expands into a power
of umbrage impenetrable to the sun in Scorpio.

A sudden burst of sunshine! bringing back the pensive spirit from the past to the present,
and kindling it, till it dances like light reflected from a burning mirror. A cheerful Sun-scene,
though almost destitute of life. An undulating Landscape, hillocky and hilly, but not mountainous,
and buried under the weight of a day and night's incessant and continuous snow-fall. The weather
has not been windy--and now that the flakes have ceased falling, there is not a cloud to be
seen, except some delicate braidings here and there along the calm of the Great Blue Sea of
Heaven. Most luminous is the sun, yet you can look straight on his face, almost with unwinking
eyes, so mild and mellow is his large light as it overflows the day. All enclosures have disappeared,
and you indistinctly ken the greater landmarks, such as a grove, a wood, a hall, a castle,
a spire, a village, a town--the faint haze of a far-off and smokeless city. Most intense is
the silence; for all the streams are dumb, and the great river lies like a dead serpent in
the strath. Not dead--for, lo! yonder one of his folds glitters--and in the glitter you see
him moving--while all the rest of his sullen length is palsied by frost, and looks livid and
more livid at every distant and more distant winding. What blackens on that tower of snow?
Crows roosting innumerous on a huge tree--but they caw not in their hunger. Neither sheep nor
cattle are to be seen or heard--but they are cared for;--the folds and the farmyards are all
full of life--and the ungathered stragglers are safe in their instincts. There has been a deep
fall--but no storm--and the silence, though partly that of suffering, is not that of death.
Therefore, to the imagination, unsaddened by the heart, the repose is beautiful. The almost
unbroken uniformity of the scene--its simple and grand monotony--lulls all the thoughts and
feelings into a calm, over which is breathed the gentle excitation of a novel charm, inspiring
many fancies, all of a quiet character. Their range, perhaps, is not very extensive, but they
all regard the home-felt and domestic charities of life. And the heart burns as here and there
some human dwelling discovers itself by a wreath of smoke up the air, or as the robin-redbreast,
a creature that is ever at hand, comes flitting before your path with an almost pert flutter
of his feathers, bold from the acquaintanceship he has formed with you in severer weather at
the threshold or window of the tenement, which for years may have been the winter sanctuary
of the "bird whom man loves best," and who bears a Christian name in every clime he inhabits.
Meanwhile the sun waxes brighter and warmer in heaven--some insects are in the air, as if that
moment called to life--and the mosses that may yet be visible here and there along the ridge
of a wall or on the stem of a tree, in variegated lustre frost-brightened, seem to delight
in the snow, and in no other season of the year to be so happy as in winter. Such gentle touches
of pleasure animate one's whole being, and connect, by many a fine association, the emotions
inspired by the objects of animate and of inanimate nature.

Ponder on the idea--the emotion of purity--and how finely soul-blent is the delight imagination
feels in a bright hush of new-fallen snow! Some speck or stain--however slight--there always
seems to be on the most perfect whiteness of any other substance--or "dim suffusion veils"
it with some faint discolour--witness even the leaf of the lily or the rose. Heaven forbid
that we should ever breathe aught but love and delight in the beauty of these consummate flowers!
But feels not the heart, even when the midsummer morning sunshine is melting the dews on their
fragrant bosoms, that their loveliness is "of the earth earthy"--faintly tinged or streaked,
when at the very fairest, with a hue foreboding languishment and decay? Not the less for its
sake are those soulless flowers dear to us--thus owning kindred with them whose beauty is all
soul enshrined for a short while on that perishable face. Do we not still regard the insensate
flowers--so emblematical of what, in human life, we do most passionately love and profoundly
pity--with a pensive emotion, often deepening into melancholy that sometimes, ere the strong
fit subsides, blackens into despair! What pain doubtless was in the heart of the Elegiac Poet
of old, when he sighed over the transitory beauty of flowers--

    "Conquerimur natura brevis quam gratia Florum!"

But over a perfectly pure expanse of night-fallen snow, when unaffected by the gentle sun,
the first fine frost has encrusted it with small sparkling diamonds, the prevalent emotion
is Joy. There is a charm in the sudden and total disappearance even of the grassy green. All
the "old familiar faces" of nature are for a while out of sight, and out of mind. That white
silence shed by heaven over earth carries with it, far and wide, the pure peace of another
region--almost another life. No image is there to tell of this restless and noisy world. The
cheerfulness of reality kindles up our reverie ere it becomes a dream; and we are glad to feel
our whole being complexioned by the passionless repose. If we think at all of human life, it
is only of the young, the fair, and the innocent. "Pure as snow," are words then felt to be
most holy, as the image of some beautiful and beloved being comes and goes before our eyes--brought
from a far distance in this our living world, or from a distance further still in a world beyond
the grave--the image of virgin growing up sinlessly to womanhood among her parents' prayers,
or of some spiritual creature who expired long ago, and carried with her her native innocence
unstained to heaven.

Such Spiritual Creature--too spiritual long to sojourn below the skies--wert Thou--whose rising
and whose setting--both most starlike--brightened at once all thy native vale, and at once
left it in darkness. Thy name has long slept in our heart--and there let it sleep unbreathed--even
as, when we are dreaming our way through some solitary place, without naming it we bless the
beauty of some sweet wildflower, pensively smiling to us through the snow.

The Sabbath returns on which, in the little kirk among the hills, we saw thee baptised. Then
comes a wavering glimmer of five sweet years, that to Thee, in all their varieties, were but
as one delightful season, one blessed life--and, finally, that other Sabbath, on which, at
thy own dying request--between services thou wert buried.

How mysterious are all thy ways and workings, O gracious Nature! Thou who art but a name given
by us to the Being in whom all things are and have life. Ere three years old, she, whose image
is now with us, all over the small sylvan world that beheld the evanescent revelation of her
pure existence, was called the "Holy Child!" The taint of Sin--inherited from those who disobeyed
in Paradise--seemed from her fair clay to have been washed out at the baptismal font, and by
her first infantine tears. So pious people almost believed, looking on her so unlike all other
children, in the serenity of that habitual smile that clothed the creature's countenance with
a wondrous beauty, at an age when on other infants is but faintly seen the dawn of reason,
and their eyes look happy just like the thoughtless flowers. So unlike all other children--but
unlike only because sooner than they she seemed to have had given to her, even in the communion
of the cradle, an intimation of the being and the providence of God. Sooner, surely, than through
any other clay that ever enshrouded immortal spirit, dawned the light of religion on the face
of the "Holy Child."

Her lisping language was sprinkled with words alien from common childhood's uncertain speech,
that murmurs only when indigent nature prompts; and her own parents wondered whence they came,
when first they looked upon her kneeling in an unbidden prayer. As one mild week of vernal
sunshine covers the braes with primroses, so shone with fair and fragrant feelings--unfolded,
ere they knew, before her parents' eyes--the divine nature of her who for a season was lent
to them from the skies. She learned to read out of the Bible--almost without any teaching--they
knew not how--just by looking gladly on the words, even as she looked on the pretty daisies
on the green--till their meanings stole insensibly into her soul, and the sweet syllables,
succeeding each other on the blessed page, were all united by the memories her heart had been
treasuring every hour that her father or her mother had read aloud in her hearing from the
Book of Life. "Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not, for of such is
the kingdom of heaven"--how wept her parents, as these the most affecting of our Saviour's
words dropt silver-sweet from her lips, and continued in her upward eyes among the swimming tears!

Be not incredulous of this dawn of reason, wonderful as it may seem to you, so soon becoming
morn--almost perfect daylight--with the "Holy Child." Many such miracles are set before us--but
we recognise them not, or pass them by with a word or a smile of short surprise. How leaps
the baby in its mother's arms, when the mysterious charm of music thrills through its little
brain! And how learns it to modulate its feeble voice, unable yet to articulate, to the melodies
that bring forth all round its eyes a delighted smile! Who knows what then may be the thoughts
and feelings of the infant awakened to the sense of a new world, alive through all its being
to sounds that haply glide past our ears unmeaning as the breath of the common air! Thus have
mere infants sometimes been seen inspired by music, till, like small genii, they warbled spell-strains
of their own, powerful to sadden and subdue our hearts. So, too, have infant eyes been so charmed
by the rainbow irradiating the earth, that almost infant hands have been taught, as if by inspiration,
the power to paint in finest colours, and to imitate with a wondrous art, the skies so beautiful
to the quick-awakened spirit of delight. What knowledge have not some children acquired, and
gone down scholars to their small untimely graves! Knowing that such things have been--are--and
will be--why art thou incredulous of the divine expansion of soul, so soon understanding the
things that are divine--in the "Holy Child?"

Thus grew she in the eye of God, day by day waxing wiser and wiser in the knowledge that tends
towards the skies; and, as if some angel visitant were nightly with her in her dreams, awakening
every morn with a new dream of thought, that brought with it a gift of more comprehensive speech.
Yet merry she was at times with her companions among the woods and braes, though while they
all were laughing, she only smiled; and the passing traveller, who might pause for a moment
to bless the sweet creatures in their play, could not but single out one face among the many
fair, so pensive in its paleness, a face to be remembered, coming from afar, like a mournful
thought upon the hour of joy.

Sister or brother of her own had she none--and often both her parents--who lived in a hut by
itself up among the mossy stumps of the old decayed forest--had to leave her alone--sometimes
even all the day long from morning till night. But she no more wearied in her solitariness
than does the wren in the wood. All the flowers were her friends--all the birds. The linnet
ceased not his song for her, though her footsteps wandered into the green glade among the yellow
broom, almost within reach of the spray from which he poured his melody--the quiet eyes of
his mate feared her not when her garments almost touched the bush where she brooded on her
young. Shyest of the winged sylvans, the cushat clapped not her wings away on the soft approach
of such harmless footsteps to the pine that concealed her slender nest. As if blown from heaven,
descended round her path the showers of the painted butterflies, to feed, sleep, or die--undisturbed
by her--upon the wildflowers--with wings, when motionless, undistinguishable from the blossoms.
And well she loved the brown, busy, blameless bees, come thither for the honey-dews from a
hundred cots sprinkled all over the parish, and all high overhead sailing away at evening,
laden and wearied, to their straw-roofed steps in many a hamlet garden. The leaf of every tree,
shrub, and plant, she knew familiarly and lovingly in its own characteristic beauty; and she
was loth to shake one dewdrop from the sweetbrier rose. And well she knew that all nature loved
in return--that they were dear to each other in their innocence--and that the very sunshine,
in motion or in rest, was ready to come at the bidding of her smiles. Skilful those small white
hands of hers among the reeds and rushes and osiers--and many a pretty flower-basket grew beneath
their touch, her parents wondering on their return home to see the handiwork of one who was
never idle in her happiness. Thus early--ere yet but five years old--did she earn her mite
for the sustenance of her own beautiful life. The russet garb she wore she herself had won--and
thus Poverty, at the door of that hut, became even like a Guardian Angel, with the lineaments
of heaven on her brow, and the quietude of heaven beneath her feet.

But these were but her lonely pastimes, or gentle taskwork self-imposed among her pastimes,
and itself the sweetest of them all, inspired by a sense of duty that still brings with it
its own delight, and hallowed by religion, that even in the most adverse lot changes slavery
into freedom--till the heart, insensible to the bonds of necessity, sings aloud for joy. The
life within the life of the "Holy Child," apart from even such innocent employments as these,
and from such recreations as innocent, among the shadows and the sunshine of those sylvan haunts,
was passed--let us fear not to say the truth, wondrous as such worship was in one so very young--was
passed in the worship of God; and her parents--though sometimes even saddened to see such piety
in a small creature like her, and afraid, in their exceeding love, that it betokened an early
removal from this world of one too perfectly pure ever to be touched by its sins and sorrows--forbore,
in an awful pity, ever to remove the Bible from her knees, as she would sit with it there,
not at morning and at evening only, or all the Sabbath long, as soon as they returned from
the kirk, but often through all the hours of the longest and sunniest weekdays, when, had she
chosen to do so, there was nothing to hinder her from going up the hill-side, or down to the
little village, to play with the other children, always too happy when she appeared--nothing
to hinder her but the voice she heard speaking in that Book, and the hallelujahs that, at the
turning over of each blessed page, came upon the ear of the "Holy Child" from white-robed saints
all kneeling before His throne in heaven.

Her life seemed to be the same in sleep. Often at midnight, by the light of the moon shining
in upon her little bed beside theirs, her parents leant over her face, diviner in dreams, and
wept as she wept, her lips all the while murmuring, in broken sentences of prayer, the name
of Him who died for us all. But plenteous as were her penitential tears--penitential in the
holy humbleness of her stainless spirit, over thoughts that had never left a dimming breath
on its purity, yet that seemed in those strange visitings to be haunting her as the shadows
of sins--soon were they all dried up in the lustre of her returning smiles. Waking, her voice
in the kirk was the sweetest among many sweet, as all the young singers, and she the youngest
far, sat together by themselves, and within the congregational music of the psalm uplifted
a silvery strain that sounded like the very spirit of the whole, even like angelic harmony
blent with a mortal song. But sleeping, still more sweetly sang the "Holy Child;" and then,
too, in some diviner inspiration than ever was granted to it while awake, her soul composed
its own hymns, and set the simple scriptural words to its own mysterious music--the tunes she
loved best gliding into one another, without once ever marring the melody, with pathetic touches
interposed never heard before, and never more to be renewed! For each dream had its own breathing,
and many-visioned did then seem to be the sinless creature's sleep.

The love that was borne for her all over the hill-region, and beyond its circling clouds, was
almost such as mortal creatures might be thought to feel for some existence that had visibly
come from heaven. Yet all who looked on her, saw that she, like themselves, was mortal, and
many an eye was wet, the heart wist not why, to hear such wisdom falling from such lips; for
dimly did it prognosticate, that as short as bright would be her walk from the cradle to the
grave. And thus for the "Holy Child" was their love elevated by awe, and saddened by pity--and
as by herself she passed pensively by their dwellings, the same eyes that smiled on her presence,
on her disappearance wept.

Not in vain for others--and for herself, oh! what great gain!--for those few years on earth
did that pure spirit ponder on the word of God! Other children became pious from their delight
in her piety--for she was simple as the simplest among them all, and walked with them hand
in hand, nor declined companionship with any one that was good. But all grew good by being
with her--and parents had but to whisper her name, and in a moment the passionate sob was hushed--the
lowering brow lighted--and the household in peace. Older hearts owned the power of the piety
so far surpassing their thoughts; and time-hardened sinners, it is said, when looking and listening
to the "Holy Child," knew the error of their ways, and returned to the right path as at a voice
from heaven.

Bright was her seventh summer--the brightest, so the aged said, that had ever, in man's memory,
shone over Scotland. One long, still, sunny, blue day followed another, and in the rainless
weather, though the dews kept green the hills, the song of the streams was low. But paler and
paler, in sunlight and moonlight, became the sweet face that had been always pale; and the
voice that had been always something mournful, breathed lower and sadder still from the too
perfect whiteness of her breast. No need--no fear--to tell her that she was about to die. Sweet
whispers had sung it to her in her sleep--and waking she knew it in the look of the piteous
skies. But she spoke not to her parents of death more than she had often done--and never of
her own. Only she seemed to love them with a more exceeding love--and was readier, even sometimes
when no one was speaking, with a few drops of tears. Sometimes she disappeared--nor, when sought
for, was found in the woods about the hut. And one day that mystery was cleared; for a shepherd
saw her sitting by herself on a grassy mound in a nook of the small solitary kirkyard, a long
mile off among the hills, so lost in reading the Bible, that shadow or sound of his feet awoke
her not; and, ignorant of his presence, she knelt down and prayed--for a while weeping bitterly--but
soon comforted by a heavenly calm--that her sins might be forgiven her!

One Sabbath evening, soon after, as she was sitting beside her parents at the door of their
hut, looking first for a long while on their faces, and then for a long while on the sky, though
it was not yet the stated hour of worship, she suddenly knelt down, and leaning on their knees,
with hands clasped more fervently than her wont, she broke forth into tremulous singing of
that hymn which from her lips they never heard without unendurable tears:

    "The hour of my departure's come,
    I hear the voice that calls me home;
    At last, O Lord, let trouble cease,
    And let thy servant die in peace!"

They carried her fainting to her little bed, and uttered not a word to one another till she
revived. The shock was sudden, but not unexpected, and they knew now that the hand of death
was upon her, although her eyes soon became brighter and brighter, they thought, than they
had ever been before. But forehead, cheeks, lips, neck, and breast, were all as white, and,
to the quivering hands that touched them, almost as cold, as snow. Ineffable was the bliss
in those radiant eyes; but the breath of words was frozen, and that hymn was almost her last
farewell. Some few words she spake--and named the hour and day she wished to be buried. Her
lips could then just faintly return the kiss, and no more--a film came over the now dim blue
of her eyes--the father listened for her breath--and then the mother took his place, and leaned
her ear to the unbreathing mouth, long deluding herself with its lifelike smile; but a sudden
darkness in the room, and a sudden stillness, most dreadful both, convinced their unbelieving
hearts at last, that it was death.

All the parish, it may be said, attended her funeral--for none stayed away from the kirk that
Sabbath--though many a voice was unable to join in the Psalm. The little grave was soon filled
up--and you hardly knew that the turf had been disturbed beneath which she lay. The afternoon
service consisted but of a prayer--for he who ministered had loved her with love unspeakable--and,
though an old grey-haired man, all the time he prayed he wept. In the sobbing kirk her parents
were sitting, but no one looked at them--and when the congregation rose to go, there they remained
sitting--and an hour afterwards, came out again into the open air, and parting with their pastor
at the gate, walked away to their hut, overshadowed with the blessing of a thousand prayers.

And did her parents, soon after she was buried, die of broken hearts, or pine away disconsolately
to their graves? Think not that they, who were Christians indeed, could be guilty of such ingratitude.
"The Lord giveth, and the Lord taketh away--blessed be the name of the Lord!" were the first
words they had spoke by that bedside; during many, many long years of weal or woe, duly every
morning and night, these same blessed words did they utter when on their knees together in
prayer--and many a thousand times besides, when they were apart, she in her silent hut, and
he on the hill--neither of them unhappy in their solitude, though never again, perhaps, was
his countenance so cheerful as of yore--and though often suddenly amidst mirth or sunshine
their eyes were seen to overflow. Happy had they been--as we mortal beings ever can be happy--during
many pleasant years of wedded life before she had been born. And happy were they--on to the
verge of old age--long after she had here ceased to be. Their Bible had indeed been an idle
Book--the Bible that belonged to "the Holy Child,"--and idle all their kirk-goings with "the
Holy Child," through the Sabbath-calm--had those intermediate years not left a power of bliss
behind them triumphant over death and the grave.

OUR PARISH.

Nature must be bleak and barren indeed to possess no power over the young spirit daily expanding
on her breast into new susceptibilities, that ere long are felt to fill life to overflowing
with a perpetual succession--an infinite series--of enjoyments. Nowhere is she destitute of
that power--not on naked sea-shores--not in central deserts. But our boyhood was environed
by the beautiful--its home was among moors and mountains, which people in towns and cities
called dreary, but which we knew to be the cheerfullest and most gladsome parish in all braid
Scotland--and well it might be, for it was in her very heart. Mountains they seemed to us in
those days, though now we believe they are only hills. But such hills!--undulating far and
wide away till the highest even on clear days seemed to touch the sky, and in cloudy weather
were verily a part of heaven. Many a valley, and many a glen--and many a hollow that was neither
valley nor glen--and many a flat, of but a few green acres, which we thought plains--and many
a cleft waterless with its birks and breckans, except when the rains came down, and then they
all sang a new song in merry chorus--and many a wood, and many a grove, for it takes no great
number of trees to make a wood, and four firs by themselves in a lonesome place are a grove--and
many a single sycamore, and many a single ash, kenned afar-off above its protected cottage--and
many an indescribable spot of scenery at once pastoral and agricultural and sylvan, where,
if house there was, you hardly knew it among the rocks;--so was Our Parish, which people in
towns and cities called dreary, composed; but the composition itself,--as well might we hope
thus to show it to your soul's eye, as by a few extracts however fine, and a few criticisms
however exquisite, to give you the idea of a perfect poem.

But we have not given you more than a single hint of a great part of our Parish--the Moor.
It was then ever so many miles long, and ever so many miles broad, and nobody thought of guessing
how many miles round--but some twenty years ago it was absolutely measured to a rood by a landlouper
of a land-surveyor--distributed--drained--enclosed--utterly ruined for ever. No, not for ever.
Nature laughs to scorn acts of Parliament, and we predict that in a quarter of a century she
will resume her management of that moor. We rejoice to hear that she is beginning already to
take lots of it into her own hands. Wheat has no business there, and should keep to the carses.
In spring, she takes him by the braird till he looks yellow in the face long before his time--in
summer, by the cuff of the neck till he lies down on his back and rots in the rain--in autumn,
by the ears, and rubs him against the grain till he expires as fushionless as the windle-straes
with which he is interlaced--in winter, she shakes him in the stook till he is left but a shadow
which pigeons despise. See him in stack at Christmas, and you pity the poor straw. Here and
there bits of bear or big, and barley, she permits to flourish--nor is she loth to see the
flowers and shaws and apples on the poor man's plant, the life-sustaining potato--which none
but political economists hate and all Christians love. She is not so sure about turnips, but
as they are a green crop she leaves them to the care of the fly. But where have her gowans
gone? There they still are in flocks, which no cultivation can scatter or eradicate--inextinguishable
by all the lime that was ever brought unslokened from all the kilns that ever glowed--by all
the dung that was ever heaped up fresh and fuming from all the Augean stables in the land.
Yet her heart burns within her to behold, even in the midst of what she abhors, the large dew-loved
heads of clover whitening or reddening, or with their rival colours amicably intermingled,
a new birth glorious in the place of reedy marish or fen where the catspaws nodded--and them
she will retain unto herself when once more she shall rejoice in her Wilderness Restored.

And would we be so barbarous as to seek to impede the progress of improvement, and to render
agriculture a dead letter? We are not so barbarous, nor yet so savage. We love civilised life,
of which we have long been one of the smaller but sincerest ornaments. But agriculture, like
education, has its bounds. It is, like it, a science, and woe to the country that encourages
all kinds of quacks. Cultivate a moor! educate a boor! First understand the character of Clods
and Clodhoppers. To say nothing now of the Urbans and Suburbans--a perilous people--yet of
great capabilities; for to discuss that question would lead us into lanes; and as it is a long
lane that has never a turning, for the present we keep in the open air, and abstain from wynds.
We are no enemies to poor soils, far less to rich ones ignorantly and stupidly called poor,
which under proper treatment effuse riches; but to expect to extract from paupers a return
for the expenditure squandered by miserly greed on their reluctant bottoms, cold and bare,
is the insanity of speculation, and such schemers deserve being buried along with their capital
in quagmires. Heavens! how they--the quagmires--suck in the dung! You say they don't suck it
in--well, then, they spew it out--it evaporates--and what is the worth of weeds? Lime whitens
a moss, that is true, but so does snow. Snow melts--what becomes of lime no mortal knows but
the powheads--them it poisons, and they give up the ghost. Drains are dug deep nowadays--and
we respect Mr Johnstone. So are gold mines. But from gold mines that precious metal--at a great
expense, witness its price--is exterred; in drains that precious metal, witness wages, is interred,
and then it becomes squash. Stirks starve--heifers are hove with windy nothing--with oxen frogs
compete in bulk with every prospect of a successful issue, and on such pasturage where would
be the virility of the Bulls of Bashan?

If we be in error, we shall be forgiven at least by all lovers of the past, and what to the
elderly seems the olden time. Oh, misery for that Moor! Hundreds, thousands, loved it as well
as we did; for though it grew no grain, many a glorious crop it bore--shadows that glided like
ghosts--the giants stalked--the dwarfs crept; yet sometimes were the dwarfs more formidable
than the giants, lying like blackamoors before your very feet, and as you stumbled over them
in the dark, throttling as if they sought to strangle you, and then leaving you at your leisure
to wipe from your mouth the mire by the light of a straggling star;--sunbeams that wrestled
with the shadows in the gloom--sometimes clean flung, and then they cowered into the heather,
and insinuated themselves into the earth; sometimes victorious, and then how they capered in
the lift, ere they shivered away--not always without a hymn of thunder--in behind the clouds,
to refresh themselves in their tabernacle in the sky.

Won't you be done with this Moor, you monomaniac? Not for yet a little while--for we see Kitty
North all by himself in the heart of it, a boy apparently about the age of twelve, and happy
as the day is long, though it is the Longest Day in all the year. Aimless he seems to be, but
all alive as a grasshopper, and is leaping like a two-year-old across the hags. Were he to
tumble in, what would become of the personage whom Kean's Biographer would call "the future
Christopher the First?" But no fear of that--for at no period of his life did he ever overrate
his powers--and he knows now his bound to an inch. Cap, bonnet, hat, he has none; and his yellow
hair, dancing on his shoulders like a mane, gives him the look of a precocious lion's whelp.
Leonine too in his aspect, yet mild withal; and but for a certain fierceness in his gambols,
you would not suspect he was a young creature of prey. A fowling-piece is in his left hand,
and in his right a rod. And what may he be purposing to shoot? Anything full-fledged that may
play whirr or sugh. Good grouse-ground this; but many are yet in the egg, and the rest are
but cheepers--little bigger than the small brown moorland bird that goes birling up with its
own short epithalamium, and drops down on the rushes still as a stone. Them he harms not on
their short flight--but marking them down, twirls his piece like a fugleman, and thinks of
the Twelfth. Safer methinks wilt thou be a score or two yards further off, O Whaup! for though
thy young are yet callow, Kit is beginning to think they may shift for themselves; and that
long bill and that long neck, and those long legs and that long body--the tout-ensemble so
elegant, so graceful, and so wild--are a strong temptation to the trigger;--click-- clack--whizz--phew--fire--smoke
and thunder--head-over-heels topsy-turvy goes the poor curlew--and Kit stands over him leaning
on his single-barrel, with a stern but somewhat sad aspect, exulting in his skill, yet sorry
for the creature whose wild cry will be heard no more.

'Tis an oasis in the desert. That green spot is called a quagmire--an ugly name enough--but
itself is beautiful; for it diffuses its own light round about it, like a star vivifying its
halo. The sward encircling it is firm--and Kit lays him down, heedless of the bird, with eyes
fixed on the oozing spring. How fresh the wild cresses! His very eyes are drinking! His thirst
is at once excited and satisfied by looking at the lustrous leaves--composed of cooling light
without spot or stain. What ails the boy? He covers his face with his hands, and in the silence
sighs. A small white hand, with its fingers spread, rises out of the spring, as if it were
beckoning to heaven in prayer--and then is sucked slowly in again out of sight with a gurgling
groan. The spring so fresh and fair--so beautiful with its cresses and many another water-loving
plant beside--is changed into the same horrid quagmire it was that day--a holiday--three years
ago--when racing in her joy Amy Lewars blindly ran into it, among her blithe companions, and
suddenly perished. Childhood, they say, soon dries its tears, and soon forgets. God be praised
for all his goodness! true it is that on the cheek of childhood tears are dried up as if by
the sunshine of joy stealing from on high--but, God be praised for all his goodness! false
it is that the heart of childhood has not a long memory, for in a moment the mournful past
revives within it--as often as the joyful--sadness becomes sorrow, sorrow grief, and grief
anguish, as now it is with the solitary boy seated by that ghastly spot in the middle of the
wide moor.

Away he flies, and he is humming a tune. But what's this? A merry-making in the moor? Ay, merry-making;
but were you to take part in it, you would find it about the hardest work that ever tried the
strength of your spine. 'Tis a party of divot-flaughters. The people in the parish are now
digging their peats, and here is a whole household, provident of winter, borrowing fuel from
the moss. They are far from coals, and wood is intended by nature for other uses; but fire
in peat she dedicated to the hearth, and there it burns all over Scotland, Highland and Lowland,
far and near, at many a holy altar. 'Tis the mid-day hour of rest. Some are half asleep, some
yet eating, some making a sort of under-voiced, under-hand love. "Mr North! Mr North! Mr North!"
is the joyful cry--horny-fists first--downy-fists next--and after heartiest greeting, Master
Kitty is installed, enthroned on a knowe, Master of the Ceremonies--and in good time gives
them a song. Then "galliards cry a hall, a hall," and hark and lo! preluded by six smacks--three
foursome reels! "Sic hirdum-dirdum and sic din," on the sward, to a strathspey frae the fiddle
o' auld blin' Hugh Lyndsay, the itinerant musicianer, who was noways particular about the number
of his strings, and when one, or even two snapped, used to play away at pretty much of the
same tune with redoubled energy and variations. He had the true old Niel-Gow yell, and had
he played on for ever, folk would have danced on for ever till they had all, one after the
other, dropped down dead. What steps!

"Who will try me," cries Kit, "at loup-the-barrows?" "I will," quoth Souple Tam. The barrows
are laid--how many side by side we fear to say--for we have become sensitive on our veracity--on
a beautiful piece of springy turf, an inclined plane with length sufficient for a run; and
while old and young line both sides of the lane near the loup, stript to the sark and the breeks,
Souple Tam, as he fondly thinks, shows the way to win, and clears them all like a frog or a
roebuck. "Clear the way, clear the way for the callant, Kit's comin!" cries Ebenezer Brackenrigg,
the Elder, a douce man now, but a deevil in his youth, and like "a waff o' lichtnin'" past
their een, Kit clears the barrows a foot beyond Souple Tam, and at the first fly is declared
victor by acclamation. Oh, our unprophetic soul, did the day indeed dawn--many long years after
this our earliest great conquest yet traditional in the parish--that ere nightfall witnessed
our defeat by--a tailor! The Flying Tailor of Ettrick--the Lying Shepherd thereof--would they
had never been born--the one to triumph and the other to record that triumph;--yet let us be
just to the powers of our rival--for though all the world knows we were lame when we leapt
him, long past our prime, had been wading all day in the Yarrow with some stones-weight in
our creel, and allowed him a yard,

    "Great must I call him, for he vanquish'd ME."

What a place at night was that Moor! At night! That is a most indeterminate mode of expression,
for there are nights of all sorts and sizes, and what kind of a night do we mean? Not a mirk
night, for no man ever walked that moor on a mirk night, except one, and he, though blind-fou,
was drowned. But a night may be dark without being mirk, with or without stars; and on many
such a night have we, but not always alone--who was with us you shall never know--threaded
our way with no other clue than that of evolving recollections, originally notices, across
that wilderness of labyrinths, fearlessly, yet at times with a beating heart. Our companion
had her clue too, one in her pocket, of blue worsted, with which she kept in repair all the
stockings belonging to the family, and one in her memory, of green ethereal silk, which, finer
far than any spider's web, she let out as she tript along the moor, and on her homeward way
she felt, by some spiritual touch, the invisible lines, along which she retript as safely as
if they had been moonbeams. During such journeyings we never saw the moor, how then can you
expect us to describe it?

But oftener we were alone. Earthquakes abroad are dreadful occurrences, and blot out the obituary.
But here they are so gentle that the heedless multitude never feel them, and on hearing you
tell of them, they incredulously stare. That moor made no show of religion, but was a Quaker.
We had but to stand still for five minutes or so, no easy matter then, for we were more restless
than a wave, or to lie down with our ear to the ground, and the spirit was sure to move the
old Quaker, who forthwith began to preach and pray and sing Psalms. How he moaned at times
as if his heart were breaking! At times, as if some old forgotten sorrow were recalled, how
he sighed! Then recovering his self-possession, as if to clear his voice, he gave a hem, and
then a short nasty cough like a patient in a consumption. Now all was hush, and you might have
supposed he had fallen asleep, for in that hush you heard what seemed an intermitting snore.
When all at once, whew, whew, whew, as if he were whistling, accompanied with a strange rushing
sound as of diving wings. That was in the air--but instantly after you heard something odder
still in the bog. And while wondering, and of your wonder finding no end, the ground, which
a moment before had felt firm as a road, began to shrink, and sink, and hesitate, and hurry,
and crumble, and mumble all around you, and close up to your very feet--the quagmires gurgling
as if choked--and a subterranean voice distinctly articulating Oh! Oh! Oh!

We have heard of people who pretend not to believe in ghosts--geologists who know how the world
was created; but will they explain that moor? And how happened it that only by nights and dark
nights it was so haunted? Beneath a wakeful moon and unwinking stars it was silent as a frozen
sea. You listened then, and heard but the grass growing, and beautiful grass it was, though
it was called coarse, and made the sweetest-scented hay. What crowds of bum-bees' bikes--foggies--did
the scythe not reveal as it heaped up the heavy swathes--three hundred stone to the acre--by
guess,--for there was neither weighing nor measuring there then-a-days, but all was in the
lump--and there the rush-roped stacks stood all the winter through, that they might be near
the "eerie outlan' cattle," on places where cart-wheel never circled, nor axle-tree creaked--nor
ever car of antique make trailed its low load along--for the horse would have been laired.
We knew not then at all--and now we but imperfectly know--the cause of the Beautiful. Then
we believed the Beautiful to be wholly extern; something we had nothing to do with but to look
at, and lo! it shone divinely there! Happy creed if false--for in it, with holiest reverence,
we blamelessly adored the stars. There they were in millions as we thought--every one brighter
than another, when by chance we happened to fix on any individual among them, that we might
look through its face into its heart. All above gloriously glittering, all below a blank. Our
body here, our spirit there--how mean our birthplace, our death-home how magnificent! "Fear
God and keep his commandments," said a small still voice--and we felt that if He gave us strength
to obey that law, we should live for ever beyond all those stars.

But were there no Lochs in our parish? Yea. Four. The Little Loch--the White Loch--the Black
Loch--and the Brother Loch. Not a tree on the banks of any one of them--yet he had been a blockhead
who called them bare. Had there been any need for trees, Nature would have sown them on hills
she so dearly loved. Nor sheep nor cattle were ever heard to complain of those pastures. They
bleated and they lowed as cheerily as the moorland birdies sang--and how cheerily that was
nobody knew who had not often met the morning on the brae, and shaken hands with her the rosy-fingered
like two familiar friends. No want of lown places there, in which the creatures could lie with
wool or hair unruffled among surrounding storms. For the hills had been dropt from the hollow
of His hand who "tempers the wind to the shorn lamb"--and even high up, where you might see
tempest-stricken stones--some of them like pillars--but placed not there by human art--there
were cosy bields in wildest weather, and some into which the snow was never known to drift,
green all the winter through--perennial nests. Such was the nature of the region where lay
our Four Lochs. They were some quarter of a mile--some half mile--and some whole mile--not
more--asunder; but there was no great height--and we have a hundred times climbed the highest--from
which they could be all seen at once--so cannily were they embosomed, so needed not to be embowered.

The LITTLE LOCH was the rushiest and reediest little rascal that ever rustled, and he was on
the very edge of the Moor. That he had fish we all persisted in believing, in spite of all
the successless angling of all kinds that from time immemorial had assailed his sullen depths;--but
what a place for pow-heads! One continued bank of them--while yet they were but eyes in the
spawn--encircled it instead of water-lilies; and at "the season of the year," by throwing in
a few stones, you awoke a croaking that would have silenced a rookery. In the early part of
the century a pike had been seen basking in the shallows, by eye-measurement about ten feet
long--but fortunately he had never been hooked, or the consequences would have been fatal.
We have seen the Little Loch alive with wild-ducks; but it was almost impossible by position
to get a shot at them--and quite impossible, if you did, to get hold of the slain. Fro himself--the
best dog that ever dived--was baffled by the multiplicity of impediments and obstructions--and
at last refused to take the water--sat down and howled in spiteful rage. Yet Imagination loved
the Little Loch, and so did Hope. We have conquered it in sleep both with rod and gun--the
weight of bag and basket has wakened us out of dreams of murder that never were realised--yet
once, and once only, in it we caught an eel, which we skinned, and wore the shrivel for many
a day round our ankle--nor is it a vain superstition--to preserve it from sprains. We are willing
the Little Loch should be drained; but you would have to dig a fearsome trench, for it used
to have no bottom. A party of us--six--ascertained that fact, by heaving into it a stone which
six-and-thirty schoolboys of this degenerate age could not have lifted from its moss-bed--and
though we watched for an hour, not a bubble rose to the surface. It used sometimes to boil
like a pot on breathless days, for events happening in foreign countries disturbed the spring,
and the torments it suffered thousands of fathoms below, were manifested above in turbulence
that would have drowned a school-boy's skiff.

The WHITE LOCH--so called from the silver sand of its shores--had likewise its rushy and reedy
bogs; but access to every part of the main body was unimpeded, and you waded into it, gradually
deeper and deeper, with such a delightful descent, that up to the arm-pits and then to the
chin, you could keep touching the sand with your big-toe, till you floated away off at the
nail, out of your depth, without for a little while discovering that it was incumbent on you,
for sake of your personal safety, to take to regular swimming--and then how buoyant was the
milk-warm water, without a wave but of your own creating, as the ripples went circling away
before your breast or your breath! It was absolutely too clear--for without knitting your brows
you could not see it on bright airless days--and wondered what had become of it--when all at
once, as if it had been that very moment created out of nothing, there it was! endued with
some novel beauty--for of all the lochs we ever knew--and to be so simple too--the White Loch
had surely the greatest variety of expression,--but all within the cheerful--for sadness was
alien altogether from its spirit, and the gentle Mere for ever wore a smile. Swans--but that
was but once--our own eyes had seen on it--and were they wild or were they tame swans, certain
it is they were great and glorious and lovely creatures, and whiter than any snow. No house
was within sight, and they had nothing to fear--nor did they look afraid--sailing in the centre
of the loch--nor did we see them fly away--for we lay still on the hill-side till in the twilight
we should not have known what they were, and we left them there among the shadows seemingly
asleep. In the morning they were gone, and perhaps making love in some foreign land.

The BLACK LOCH was a strange misnomer for one so fair--for black we never saw him, except it
might be for an hour or so before thunder. If he really was a loch of colour the original taint
had been washed out of him, and he might have shown his face among the purest waters of Europe.
But then he was deep; and knowing that, the natives had named him, in no unnatural confusion
of ideas, the Black Loch. We have seen wild-duck eggs five fathoms down so distinctly that
we could count them--and though that is not a bad dive, we have brought them up, one in our
mouth and one in each hand, the tenants of course dead--nor can we now conjecture what sank
them there; but ornithologists see unaccountable sights, and they only who are not ornithologists
disbelieve Audubon and Wilson. Two features had the Black Loch which gave it to our eyes a
pre-eminence in beauty over the other three--a tongue of land that half-divided it, and never
on hot days was without some cattle grouped on its very point, and in among the water--and
a cliff on which, though it was not very lofty, a pair of falcons had their nest. Yet in misty
weather, when its head was hidden, the shrill cry seemed to come from a great height. There
were some ruins too--tradition said of some church or chapel--that had been ruins long before
the establishment of the Protestant faith. But they were somewhat remote, and likewise somewhat
imaginary, for stones are found lying strangely distributed, and those looked to our eyes not
like such as builders use, but to have been dropped there most probably from the moon.

But the best beloved, if not the most beautiful, of them all was the BROTHER LOCH. It mattered
not what was his disposition or genius, every one of us boys, however different might be our
other tastes, preferred it far beyond the rest, and for once that we visited any of them we
visited it twenty times, nor ever once left it with disappointed hopes of enjoyment. It was
the nearest, and therefore most within our power, so that we could gallop to it on shank's
naigie, well on in the afternoon, and enjoy what seemed a long day of delight, swift as flew
the hours, before evening prayers. Yet was it remote enough to make us always feel that our
race thither was not for every day--and we seldom returned home without an adventure. It was
the largest too by far of the Four--and indeed its area would have held the waters of all the
rest. Then there was a charm to our heart as well as our imagination in its name--for tradition
assigned it on account of three brothers that perished in its waters--and the same name for
the same reason belongs to many another loch--and to one pool on almost every river. But above
all it was the Loch for angling, and we long kept to perch. What schools! Not that they were
of a very large size--though pretty well--but hundreds all nearly the same size gladdened our
hearts as they lay, at the close of our sport, in separate heaps on the greensward shore, more
beautiful out of all sight than your silver or golden fishes in a glass-vase, where one appears
to be twenty, and the delusive voracity is all for a single crumb. No bait so killing as cowshairn-mauks,
fresh from their native bed, scooped out with the thumb. He must have been a dear friend to
whom in a scarcity, by the water-side, when the corks were dipping, we would have given a mauk.
No pike. Therefore the trout were allowed to gain their natural size--and that seemed to be
about five pounds--adolescents not unfrequent swam two or three--and you seldom or never saw
the smaller fry. But few were the days "good for the Brother Loch." Perch rarely failed you,
for by perseverance you were sure to fall in with one circumnatatory school or other, and to
do murderous work among them with the mauk, from the schoolmaster himself inclusive down to
the little booby of the lowest form. Not so with Trout. We have angled ten hours a-day for
half a-week (during the vacance), without ever getting a single rise, nor could even that be
called bad sport, for we lived in momentary expectation, mingled with fear, of a monster. Better
far from sunrise to sunset never to move a fin, than oh! me miserable! to hook a huge hero
with shoulders like a hog--play him till he comes floating side up close to the shore, and
then to feel the feckless fly leave his lip and begin gamboling in the air, while he wallops
away back into his native element, and sinks utterly and for evermore into the dark profound.
Life loses at such a moment all that makes life desirable--yet strange! the wretch lives on--and
has not the heart to drown himself, as he wrings his hands and curses his lot and the day he
was born. But, thank Heaven, that ghastly fit of fancy is gone by, and we imagine one of those
dark, scowling, gusty, almost tempestuous days, "prime for the Brother Loch." No glare or glitter
on the water, no reflection of fleecy clouds, but a black-blue undulating swell, at times turbulent--with
now and then a breaking wave,--that was the weather in which the giants fed, showing their
backs like dolphins within a fathom of the shore, and sucking in the red heckle among your
very feet. Not an insect in the air, yet then the fly was all the rage. This is a mystery,
for you could do nothing with the worm. Oh! that we had then known the science of the spinning
minnow! But we were then but an apprentice--who are now Emeritus Grand Master. Yet at this
distance of time--half a century and more--it is impious to repine. Gut was not always to be
got; and on such days a three-haired snood did the business--for they were bold as lions, and
rashly rushed on death. The gleam of the yellow-worsted body with star-y-pointed tail maddened
them with desire--no dallying with the gay deceiver--they licked him in--they gorged him--and
while satiating their passion got involved in inextricable fate. You have seen a single strong
horse ploughing up-hill. How he sets his brisket to it--and snooves along--as the furrows fall
in beautiful regularity from the gliding share. So snooved along the Monarch of the Mere--or
the heir-apparent--or heir-presumptive--or some other branch of the royal family--while our
line kept steadily cutting the waves, and our rod enclosing some new segment of the sky.

But many another pastime we pursued upon those pastoral hills, for even angling has its due
measure, and unless that be preserved, the passion wastes itself into lassitude, or waxes into
disease. "I would not angle alway," thinks the wise boy--"off to some other game we altogether
flew." Never were there such hills for hare and hounds. There couched many a pussy--and there
Bob Howie's famous Tickler--the Grew of all Grews--first stained his flews in the blood of
the Fur. But there is no coursing between April and October--and during the intervening months
we used to have many a hunt on foot, without dogs, after the leverets. We all belonged to the
High School indeed, and here was its playground. Cricket we had then never heard of; but there
was ample room and verge enough for football. Our prime delight, however, was the chase. We
were all in perpetual training, and in such wind that there were no bellows to mend after a
flight of miles. We circled the Lochs. Plashing through the marishes we strained winding up
the hill-sides, till on the cairn called a beacon that crowned the loftiest summit of the range,
we stood and waved defiance to our pursuers scattered wide and far below, for 'twas a Deer
Hunt. Then we became cavaliers. We caught the long-maned and long-tailed colts, and mounting
bare-backed, with rush helmets and segg sabres charged the nowte till the stirks were scattered,
and the lowing lord of herds himself taken captive, as he stood pawing in a nook with his nose
to the ground and eyes of fire. That was the riding-school in which we learned to witch the
world with noble horsemanship. We thus got confirmed in that fine, easy, unconstrained, natural
seat, which we carried with us into the saddle when we were required to handle the bridle instead
of the mane. 'Tis right to hold on by the knees, but equally so to hold on by the calves of
the legs and the heels. The modern system of turning out the toes, and sticking out the legs
as if they were cork or timber, is at once dangerous and ridiculous; hence in our cavalry the
men got unhorsed in every charge. On pony-back we used to make the soles of our feet smack
together below the belly, for quadruped and biped were both unshod, and hoof needed no iron
on that stoneless sward. But the biggest fun of all was to "grup the auld mare," and ride her
sextuple, the tallest boy sitting on the neck, and the shortest on the rump with his face to
the tail, and holding on by that fundamental feature by which the urchin tooled her along as
by a tiller. How the silly foal whinnied, as with light-gathered steps he accompanied in circles
his populous parent, and seemed almost to doubt her identity, till one by one we slipped off
over her hurdies, and let him take a suck! But what comet is yon in the sky--"with fear of
change perplexing mallards?" A Flying Dragon. Of many degrees is his tail, with a tuft like
that of Taurus terrified by the sudden entrance of the Sun into his sign. Up goes Sandy Donald's
rusty and rimless beaver as a messenger to the Celestial. He obeys, and stooping his head,
descends with many diverse divings, and buries his beak in the earth. The feather kite quails
and is cowed by him of paper, and there is a scampering of cattle on a hundred hills.

The Brother Loch saw annually another sight, when on the Green-Brae was pitched a Tent--a snow-white
Pyramid, gathering to itself all the sunshine. There lords and ladies, and knights and squires,
celebrated Old May-day, and half the parish flocked to the Festival. The Earl of Eglintoun,
and Sir Michael Shaw Stewart, and old Sir John of Polloc, and Pollock of that Ilk, and other
heads of illustrious houses, with their wives and daughters, a beautiful show, did not disdain
them of low degree, but kept open table in the moor; and would you believe it, high-born youths
and maidens ministered at the board to cottage lads and lasses, whose sunburnt faces hardly
dared to smile, under awe of that courtesy--yet whenever they looked up there was happiness
in their eyes. The young ladies were all arrayed in green; and after the feast, they took bows
and arrows in their lily hands, and shot at a target in a style that would have gladdened the
heart of Maid Marian--nay, of Robin himself;--and one surpassing bright--the Star of Ayr--she
held a hawk on her wrist--a tercel gentle--after the fashion of the olden time; and ever as
she moved her arm you heard the chiming of silver bells. And her brother--gay and gallant as
Sir Tristrem--he blew his tasseled bugle--so sweet, so pure, so wild the music, that when he
ceased to breathe, the far-off repeated echoes, faint and dim, you thought died away in heaven
like an angel's voice.

