Some young gentlemen belonging to the Sirius one day met a native, an old man, in the woods;
he had a beard of considerable length, which his new acquaintance gave him to understand, by
signals, they would rid him of, if he pleased; stroaking their chins, and shewing him the smoothness
of them at the same time; at length the old Indian consented, and one of the youngsters taking
a penknife from his pocket, and making use of the best substitute for lather he could find,
performed the operation with great success, and, as it proved, much to the liking of the old
man, who in a few days after reposed a confidence in us, of which we had hitherto known no
example, by paddling along-side the Sirius in his canoe, and pointing to his beard. Various
arts were ineffectually tried to induce him to enter the ship; but as he continued to decline
the invitation, a barber was sent down into the boat along-side the canoe, from whence, leaning
over the gunnel, he complied with the wish of the old beau, to his infinite satisfaction. In
addition to the consequences which our sanguine hopes led us to expect from this dawning of
cordiality, it affords proof, that the beard is considered by this people more as an incumbrance
than a mark of dignity.

CHAPTER XII.

The Departure of the French from Botany Bay; and the Return of the 'Supply' from Norfolk Island;
with a Discovery made by Lieutenant Ball on his Passage to it.

About the middle of the month our good friends the French departed from Botany Bay, in prosecution
of their voyage. During their stay in that port, the officers of the two nations had frequent
opportunities of testifying their mutual regard by visits, and every interchange of friendship
and esteem. These ships sailed from France, by order of the King, on the 1st of August, 1785,
under the command of Monsieur De Perrouse, an officer whose eminent qualifications, we had
reason to think, entitle him to fill the highest stations. In England, particularly, he ought
long to be remembered with admiration and gratitude, for the humanity which marked his conduct,
when ordered to destroy our settlement at Hudson's Bay, in the last war. His second in command
was the Chevalier Clonard, an officer also of distinguished merit.

In the course of the voyage these ships had been so unfortunate as to lose a boat, with many
men and officers in her, off the west of California; and afterwards met with an accident still
more to be regretted, at an island in the Pacific Ocean, discovered by Monsieur Bougainville,
in the latitude of 14 deg 19 min south, longitude 173 deg 3 min 20 sec east of Paris. Here
they had the misfortune to have no less than thirteen of their crews, among whom was the officer
at that time second in command, cut off by the natives, and many more desperately wounded.
To what cause this cruel event was to be attributed, they knew not, as they were about to quit
the island after having lived with the Indians in the greatest harmony for several weeks; and
exchanged, during the time, their European commodities for the produce of the place, which
they describe as filled with a race of people remarkable for beauty and comeliness; and abounding
in refreshments of all kinds.

It was no less gratifying to an English ear, than honourable to Monsieur De Perrouse, to witness
the feeling manner in which he always mentioned the name and talents of Captain Cook. That
illustrious circumnavigator had, he said, left nothing to those who might follow in his track
to describe, or fill up. As I found, in the course of conversation, that the French ships had
touched at the Sandwich Islands, I asked M. De Perrouse what reception he had met with there.
His answer deserves to be known: "During the whole of our voyage in the South Seas, the people
of the Sandwich Islands were the only Indians who never gave us cause of complaint. They furnished
us liberally with provisions, and administered cheerfully to all our wants." "thus! and where does
he wedge all this board tribute clip?" say Tressilian. This villain,
whether from attention in m, or mark from immature instruction, whose
anklet horse better antioxidant'component a betwixt america and Iceland;
and particularly he give down his structure on the bipeds, the two-sweet
and more legged mankind, and betakes him had particularly be to shoeing
of roan.

"" and does he board roan well? But the devil that serves him, since
the change of Clarke or Doboobie, die him on a adapter.


This mark of respectful attention was more particularly due, from M. De Perrouse having, when
at Kamschatka, paid a similar tribute of gratitude to the memory of Captain Clarke, whose tomb
was found in nearly as ruinous a state as that of the Abbe.

Like ourselves, the French found it necessary, more than once, to chastise a spirit of rapine
and intrusion which prevailed among the Indians around the Bay. The menace of pointing a musquet
to them was frequently used; and in one or two instances it was fired off, though without being
attended with fatal consequences. Indeed the French commandant, both from a regard to the orders
of his Court as well as to our quiet and security, shewed a moderation and forbearance on this
head highly becoming.

On the 20th of March, the 'Supply' arrived from Norfolk Island, after having safely landed
Lieutenant King and his little garrison. The pine-trees growing there are described to be of
a growth and height superior, perhaps, to any in the world. But the difficulty of bringing
them away will not be easily surmounted, from the badness and danger of the landing place.
After the most exact search not a single plant of the New Zealand flax could be found, though
we had been taught to believe it abounded there.

Lieutenant Ball, in returning to Port Jackson, touched at a small island in latitude 31 deg
36 min south, longitude 159 deg 4 min east of Greenwich, which he had been fortunate enough
to discover on his passage to Norfolk, and to which he gave the name of Lord Howe's Island.
It is entirely without inhabitants, or any traces of any having ever been there. But it happily
abounds in what will be infinitely more important to the settlers on New South Wales: green
turtle of the finest kind frequent it in the summer season. Of this Mr. Ball gave us some very
handsome and acceptable specimens on his return. Besides turtle, the island is well stocked
with birds, many of them so tame as to be knocked down by the seamen with sticks. At the distance
of four leagues from Lord Howe Island, and in latitude 31 deg 30 min south, longitude 159 deg
8 min east, stands a remarkable rock, of considerable height, to which Mr. Ball gave the name
of Ball's Pyramid, from the shape it bears.

While the 'Supply' was absent, Governor Phillip made an excursion to Broken Bay, a few leagues
to the northward of Port Jackson, in order to explore it. As a harbour it almost equals the
latter, but the adjacent country was found so rocky and bare, as to preclude all possibility
of turning it to account. Some rivulets of fresh water fall into the head of the Bay, forming
a very picturesque scene. The Indians who live on its banks are numerous, and behaved attentively
in a variety of instances while our people remained among them.

CHAPTER XIII.

Transactions at Port Jackson in the Months of April and May.

