The time of day was noon, and he bethought him the kitchen dinner would be ready; so he prepared
to fly towards the house, as he was very hungry. Just at this moment he caught sight of the
gardener turning over some stuff for a hot-bed, and he also saw some fine, fat worms thrown
to the surface by the fork. He concluded to dine there that day, and proceeded to make a very
satisfactory meal. He had with some difficulty swallowed a very large worm, when he heard the
gardener say, "Hush! gently; now we shall see some fun." Robinette looked up. He saw, and he
loved. The daintiest Miss Robin in all the garden was hopping towards him. Alas! beside her
was a fine cock robin, and they seemed on the pleasantest terms with each other, and hopped
along, quite unaware of Robinette's presence. To be ignored was what he could not stand. So
he came near to them, made a deep bow to the lady, and ruffled his feathers and scowled at
his rival. A fierce rage and jealousy took possession of him. He would kill this bird or die
in the fight. The other cock robin was as eager for the fray as he was; so these two little
birds were soon fighting savagely for the lady of their choice. She watched the duel from a
twig close by. She had made up her mind to marry the winner, and it did not seem to matter
much which that was. Both were handsome; and the victor would prove himself the stronger. The
birds were very equally matched, and fought for some time with varying fortune. At last, however,
Robinette was conqueror, and he flew at once to the lady and claimed her as his bride. He knew
he now had a right to her; but just in case her mind should waver towards another, he placed
before her the advantages of an alliance with him, the chief one being that he could get as
much food as ever they could eat, with very little trouble, and the food was of the most rare
and nourishing kind.

"I can get some for you now, for I see my friends in the garden, and Polly is sure to have
crumbs in her pocket. Wait here until I come back."

The ladies had come out for a stroll in the garden. What a garden that was! At almost any season
it was beautiful, but in the summer it was a paradise alike for birds and human beings. It
was surrounded by grand old trees of many kinds and flowering shrubs as large as trees. Then
the wealth of roses and sweet-scented, old-fashioned flowers of all sorts, mixed here and there
with their more modern sisters, made it a perfect dream of delight. How the town-wearied friends
rejoiced when they were bidden to visit that garden! There their eyes were refreshed by the
softly-blended colouring and exquisite beauty of the whole scene. They breathed in the delicious
air, and thought it better than wine as a restorer of strength. No words can describe the feeling
to the feet of those soft, green avenues--the grass so short that the most delicate could walk
there without harm, and so smooth that a child's bare foot could run there scathless. That
garden is now to those dear friends a place in their memory only. The ladies have passed away
from it, and strangers are in possession.

Excuse this digression.

Robinette flew to Polly's hand.

"So here you are, Bobbie. We wondered what had become of you, as you did not come in at lunch-time.
Don't fill your mouth so full; you will choke yourself. Oh! he is off."

Polly had held the crumbs for him as usual, and he just stuffed his mouth full and flew in
the direction of the greenhouse.

"Mother, Robinette must have a lady-love. He has taken the crumbs away; he did not swallow them."

Mrs. Robinette was charmed with the crumbs--that kind of food suited her taste exactly; and
she hoped her husband would keep her well supplied with them when she was too much occupied
with other matters to seek food for herself. Robinette gallantly promised to do his best for her.

Now it was time to seek a place for their nest, and begin building. Like most young people
under similar circumstances, they were difficult to please. Robinette, having been so much
accustomed to a house, thought the greenhouse the best place; Mrs. Robinette, knowing nothing
about houses, thought a nice, thick bush much superior. She, like a good wife, gave in to her
husband, and allowed him to choose the site for their nest. He selected a nice, quiet corner
of the greenhouse, beside some large flower-pots that looked as if they had not been disturbed
for a century. Here they would be safe from storms and cats and all creatures which terrify
small birds. As evening was drawing on, our little lovers parted, having appointed a place
to meet next morning at sunrise to begin to build their nest.

The following day the sun rose bright and beautiful, making all things and creatures rejoice,
and none more than our two little birds, who were soon as busy as possible, finding and bringing
the materials necessary for their purpose.

They had such a happy time building that nest; he was so gallant and she was so sweet. How
he sang to her when she was tired, and what delicious crumbs he brought her! Some shortbread
had been sent to Polly as a present, and it is such a crumbling cake that the birds feasted
royally while it lasted.

At last the nest was finished. The little builders looked it all over and could find no fault
with it. As they were rather exhausted with their hard work, they agreed to rest themselves
a while near the hot-bed where the memorable fight had taken place. There they could find plenty
of worms without fatigue, and they would sleep or chat as they felt disposed. When they were
sufficiently rested, they went back to look at their pretty, new house. Alas! alas! what desolation
they found! The gardener, who had been cleaning his greenhouse, had moved the big, dirty flower-pots,
and had thrown out the robins' nest. Poor, tired birds, they had to begin all over again. Mrs.
Robinette burst into tears, saying,—

"I told you not to choose a house to build in; I was sure a bush would have been safer. Do,
dear husband, come away now to some other place; I do not like the men."

Robinette was very angry at his work being spoiled, and he answered a little sharply,—

"Nonsense, my dear; I am not going to be driven out of my way by a stupid old gardener. We
shall build here again. Let us set to work at once; and if that man interferes I shall tell
the mistress. Hallo! here is a piece of good-luck for us; he has only thrown it down here.
To be sure, it is torn to pieces. But never mind; we shall soon have it up again."

You see Robinette had a temper; but he was a cheery wee bird, inclined to make the best of
things. When his anger had cooled, he chirped to his down-hearted little wife so brightly that
she was obliged to pluck up spirit, and they were soon as merry as before the terrible misfortune.

A few days after these events Mrs. Lewis came into her greenhouse, and seeing it look so much
brighter and lighter than usual, she said to the gardener,—

"You must acknowledge that the house looks better for being clean. Try to keep it so."

"I'll try, ma'am; but it is not much use when these mischievous birds come in, bringing their
stuff to build with. Just look there. I threw away a nest from that very spot three days ago,
and there is another. And there is a robin in it."

"It is Robinette," cried Polly. "I am sure it is.--Bobbie, come for crumbs."

