When the plunder of the Monasteries was exhausted, the Tudor Sovereigns, or perhaps their favourites,
took themselves to exacting gifts and grants from the Bishops, and thus Poynet who was intended
in the stead of Gardiner gave Merdon to Edward VI, who presented it to Sir Philip Hobby. It
was recovered by Bishop Gardiner, but granted back again by Queen Elizabeth.  Sir Philip is
believed to have first built a mansion at Hursley, and his nephew sold the place to Sir Thomas
Clarke, who was apparently a hard lord of the manor.  His tenants still had to labour at his
crops instead of paying rent, but provisions had to be found them. About the year 1600, on
the arrival of a hogshead of porridge, unsavoury and full of worms, the reapers struck, and
their part was taken by Mr. Robert Coram, who then owned Cranbury, so hotly that he and Mr.
Pye, Sir Thomas Clarke's steward, rode at one another through the wheat with drawn daggers.
Lady Clarke yielded, and cooked two or three bacon-hogs for the reapers.

The old road from Winchester to Southampton then went along what we now call the Old Hollow,
leading from Shawford Down to Oakwood.  Then it seems to have gone along towards the old Church,
its course being still marked by the long narrow meadows, called the Jar Mead and Hundred Acres,
or, more properly, Under an Acre.  Then it led down to the ford at Brambridge, for there was
then no canal to be crossed.  The only great personage who was likely to have come along this
road in the early 17th century was King James the First's wife, Queen Anne of Denmark, who
spent a winter at the old Castle of Winchester, and was dreadfully dull there, though the ladies
tried to amuse her by all sorts of games, among which one was called "Rise, Pig, and Go."

James I gave us one of the best of Bishops, Lancelot Andrewes by name, who wrote a beautiful
book of devotions.  He lived on to the time of Charles I, and did much to get the ruins made
in the bad days round Winchester Cathedral cleared and set to rights.  Most likely he saw that
the orders for putting the altars back into their right places were carried out, and very likely
the chancel was then mended, but with no attention to architecture, for the head of the east
window was built up anyhow with broken bits of tracery from a larger and handsomer one.  The
heir of the Clarkes sold the property at Hursley to Mr. Mayor, to whose only daughter Oliver
Cromwell married his son Richard.

What happened here in the Great Rebellion we do not know.  An iron ball was once dug up in
the grounds at Otterbourne House, which may have come from Oliver's Battery; but it is also
said to be only the knob of an old pump handle--

            "When from the guarded down
   Fierce Cromwell's rebel soldiery kept watch o'er Wykeham's town.
   They spoiled the tombs of valiant men, warrior, and saint, and sage;
   But at the tomb of Wykeham good angels quenched their rage."

Colonel Nathanael Fiennes prevented harm from being done to the College or the monuments in
the Cathedral; but there was some talk of destroying that holy place, for I have seen a petition
from the citizens of Winchester that it might be spared.  It is said that some loyal person
took out all the stained glass in the great west window, hid it in a chest, and buried it;
but when better times came, it could not be restored to what it was before, and was put in
confusedly, as we now see it.

Stoneham had a brave old clergyman, who kept possession of his church and rectory all through
the war, and went on with the service till he died, no man daring to meddle with him.  But
Otterbourne was sure to follow the fate of Hursley.  The King's Head Inn at Hursley is thought
to have been so called in allusion to the death of King Charles I.  A strange compliment to
the Cromwells.

