As I have said, during the autumn of 1813 his Majesty frequently visited the public works.
He usually went almost unattended, and on foot, to visit those of the Tuileries and the Louvre,
and afterwards mounted his horse, accompanied by one or two officers at most, and M. Fontaine,
and went to examine those which were more distant.  One day,--it was about the end of November,
having seized the opportunity of his Majesty's absence to take a walk through the Faubourg
Saint Germain, I unexpectedly encountered his Majesty on his way to the Luxembourg, just as
he arrived at the entrance of the Rue de Tournon; and it is impossible to describe the intense
satisfaction with which I heard shouts of "Vive l'Empereur" break forth as he approached. 
I found myself driven by the crowd very near the Emperor's horse, and yet I did not imagine
for a moment that he had recognized me.  On his return, however, I had proofs to the contrary.
His Majesty had seen me; and as I assisted him to change his clothing the Emperor gayly remarked
to me, "Well, M. le Drole!  Ah!  ah!  what were you doing in the Faubourg Saint Germain?  I
see just how it is!  A fine thing really!  You spy on me when I go out," and many other jests
of the same kind; for on that day the Emperor was in such fine spirits that I concluded he
had been much pleased with his visit.

Whenever at this time the Emperor experienced any unusual anxiety, I noticed that in order
to dispel it he took pleasure in exhibiting himself in public more frequently, perhaps, than
during his other sojourns in Paris, but always without any ostentation.  He went frequently
to the theater; and, thanks to the obliging kindness of Count de Remusat, I myself frequently
attended these assemblies, which at that time always had the appearance of a fete.  Assuredly,
when on the occasion of the first representation of the ballet of Nina, their Majesties entered
their box, it would have been difficult to imagine that the Emperor had already enemies among
his subjects.  It is true that the mothers and widows in mourning were not there; but I can
affirm that I have never seen more perfect enthusiasm.  The Emperor enjoyed this from the depths
of his heart, even more, perhaps, than after his victories.  The conviction that he was beloved
by the French people impressed him deeply, and in the evening he condescended to speak to me
of it--shall I dare to say like a child puffed up with pride at the reward he has just received?
Then in the perfect freedom of privacy he said repeatedly, "My wife!  my good Louise!  Truly,
she should be well satisfied."  The truth is, that the desire to see the Emperor at the theater
was so great in Paris, that as he always took his place in the box at the side, opening on
the proscenium, each time that he made his appearance there the boxes situated on the opposite
side of the hall were rented at incredible figures, and even the uppermost tiers were preferred
to those from which they could not see him easily.  No one who lived in Paris at that time
can fail to recognize the correctness of this statement.

