At last he heard a bustle within the house. There were hurried steppings to and fro by Winona
and her mother, the heavy tread of the judge, a murmur of high voices. The Whipples must have
come, and every one would be at the front of the house. He crept from his corner, climbed to
the floor from where it had been opened for wood and coal, and went softly to the kitchen door.
He listened a moment through the screen, then entered and went noiselessly up the back stairs.
Coming to the head of the front stairway, he listened again. There were other voices in front,
and he shrank to the wall. He gathered that only the Whipple stepmother and Patricia had come--no
other Whipples, no preacher. It might not have been so bad. Still he didn't want to be there.

They were at the front door now, headed for the parlour. Someone paused at the foot of the
stairs, and in quick alarm he darted along the hall and into an open door. He was in the neat
bedroom of Winona, shortbreathed, made doubly nervous by boards that had creaked under his
tread. He stood listening. They were in the parlour, a babble of voices coming up to him; excited
voices, but not funeral voices. His eyes roved the chamber of Winona, where everything was
precisely in its place. He mapped out a dive under her bed if steps came up the stairs. He
heard now the piping voice of Patricia Whipple.

"It's like in the book about Ben Blunt that was adopted by a kind old gentleman and went up
from rags to riches."

This for some reason seemed to cause laughter below.

He heard, from Winona: "Do try a piece of Mother's cake. Merle, dear, give Mrs. Whipple a plate
and napkin."

Cake! Certainly nothing like cake for this occasion had been intimated to him! They hadn't
had cake at the Finkboners. Things might have been different, but they had kept still about
cake. He listened intently, hearing laughing references to Merle in his new home. Then once
more Winona came to the front door and called him.

"Wilbur--Wil-bur-r-r! Where can that child be!" he heard her demand. She went to the back of
the house and more faintly he heard her again call his name--"Wilbur, Wil-bur-r-r!" Then, with
discernible impatience, more shortly, "Wilbur Cowan!" He was intently regarding a printed placard
that hung on the wall beside Winona's bureau. It read:

     A gentleman makes no noise; a lady is serene.--Emerson.

He remained silent. He was not going to make any noise. At length he could hear preparations
for departure.

"Merle, dear, your hat is on the piano--Mother, hand him his hat--I'll bring his suitcase."

"Well, I'll be sure to come back to see you all some day."

"Yes, now don't forget us--no, we mustn't let him do that."

They were out on the porch, going down the walk. The listener stepped lightly to a window and
became also a watcher. Ahead walked Patricia Whipple and her new brother. The stepmother and
Mrs. Penniman followed. Then came Winona with the suitcase, which was of wicker. Judge Penniman
lumbered ponderously behind. At the hitching post in front was the pony cart and the fat pony
of sickening memory. Merle was politely helping the step-mother to the driver's seat. It was
over. But the watcher suddenly recalled something.

In swift silence, descending the stairs, he entered the parlour. On a stand beneath the powerful
picture of the lion behind real bars was a frosted cake of rare beauty. Three pieces were gone
and two more were cut. On top of each piece was the half of a walnut meat. He tenderly seized
one of these and stole through the deserted house, through kitchen and woodshed, out to the
free air again. Back of the woodshed he sat down on the hard bare ground, his back to its wall,
looking into the garden where Judge Penniman, in the intervals of his suffering, raised a few
vegetables. It was safe seclusion for the pleasant task in hand. He gloated rapturously over
the cake, eating first the half of the walnut meat, which he carefully removed. But he thought
it didn't taste right.

He now regarded the cake itself uncertainly. It was surely perfect cake. He broke a fragment
from the thin edge and tasted it almost fearfully. It wasn't going right. He persisted with
a larger fragment, but upon this he was like to choke; his mouth was dry and curiously no place
for even the choicest cake. He wondered about it in something like panic, staring at it in
puzzled consternation. There was the choice thing and he couldn't eat it. Then he became aware
that his eyes were hot, the lids burning; and there came a choking, even though he no longer
had any cake in his mouth. Suddenly he knew that he couldn't eat the cake because he had lost
his brother--his brother who had passed on. He gulped alarmingly as the full knowledge overwhelmed
him. He was wishing that Merle had kept the knife, even if it wasn't such a good knife, so
he would have something to remember him by. Now he would have nothing. He, Wilbur, would always
remember Merle, even if he was no longer a twin, but Merle would surely forget him. He had
passed on.

Over by the little house he heard the bark of Frank, the dog. Frank's voice was changing, and
his bark was now a promising baritone. His owner tried to whistle, but made poor work of this,
so he called, "Here, Frank! Here, Frank!" reckless of betraying his own whereabouts. His voice
was not clear, it still choked, but it carried; Frank came bounding to him. He had a dog left,
anyway--a good fighting dog. His eyes still burned, but they were no longer dry, and his gulps
were periodic, threatening a catastrophe of the most dreadful sort.

Frank, the dog, swallowed the cake hungrily, eating it with a terrible ease, as he was wont
to eat enemy dogs.

CHAPTER VIII

Midsummer faded into late summer, and Dave Cowan was still small-towning it. To the uninformed
he might have seemed a staff, fixed and permanent, to Sam Pickering and the Newbern Center
Advance. But Sam was not uninformed. He was wise in Dave's ways; he knew the longer Dave stayed
the more casually would he flit; an hour's warning and the Advance would be needing a printer.
So Sam became aware on a day in early September that he would be wise to have a substitute
ready. He knew the signs. Dave would become abstracted, stand longer and oftener at the window
overlooking the slow life of Newbern. His mind would already be off and away. Then on an afternoon
he would tell Sam that he must see a man in Seattle, and if Sam had taken forethought there
would be a new printer at the case next day. The present sojourn of Dave's had been longer
than any Sam Pickering could remember, for the reason, it seemed, that Dave had been interested
in teaching his remaining son a good loose trade.

Directly after the apotheosis of Merle his brother had been taken to the Advance office where,
perched upon a high stool, his bare legs intricately entwined among its rungs, he had been
taught the surface mysteries of typesetting. At first he was merely let to set up quads in
his stick, though putting leads between the lines and learning the use of his steel rule. Then
he was taught the location of the boxes in the case and was allowed to set real type. By the
time Sam Pickering noted the moving signs in Dave the boy was struggling with copy and winning
his father's praise for his aptitude. True, he too often neglected to reach to the upper case
for capital letters, and the galley proofs of his takes were not as clean as they should have
been, but he was learning. His father said so.

Every Wednesday he earned a real quarter by sitting against the wall back of the hand press
and inking the forms while his father ran off the edition. This was better fun than typesetting.
Before you was a long roller on two other long rollers, and at your right hand was a small
roller with which you picked up ink from a stone, rolling it across and across with a spirited
crackle; then you ran the small roller the length of the long roller; then you turned a crank
that revolved the two lower rollers, thus distributing the ink evenly over the upper one. After
that you ran the upper roller out over the two forms of type on the press bed.

Dave Cowan, across the press, the sleeves of his pink-striped shirt rolled to his elbows, then
let down a frame in which he had fixed a virgin sheet of paper, ran the bed of the press back
under a weighted shelf, and pulled a mighty lever to make the imprint. Wilbur had heard the
phrase "power of the press." He conceived that this was what the phrase meant--this pulling
of the lever. Surmounting the framework of the press was a bronze eagle with wings out-spread
for flight. His father told him, the first day of his service, that this bird would flap its
wings and scream three times when the last paper was run off. This would be the signal for
Terry Stamper, the devil, to go across to Vielhaber's and fetch a pail of beer. Wilbur had
waited for this phenomenon, only to believe, after repeated disappointments, that it was one
of his father's jokes, though it was true that Terry Stamper brought the beer, which was drunk
by Dave and Terry and Sam Pickering. Sam had been folding the printed papers, while Terry Stamper
operated a machine that left upon each the name of a subscriber, dropping them into a clothes
basket, which he later conveyed to the post office. Wilbur enjoyed this work, running the long
roller across the forms after each impression, spotting himself and his clothes with ink. After
he had learned some more he would be a printer's devil like Terry, and fetch the beer and run
the job press and do other interesting things. There was a little thrill for him in knowing
you could say devil in this connection without having people think you were using a bad word.

But Dave's time had come. He "yearned over the skyline, where the strange roads go down," though
he put it more sharply to Sam Pickering one late afternoon:

"Well, Sam, I feel itchy-footed."

"I knew it," said Sam. "When are you leaving?"

"No train out till the six-fifty-eight."

And Sam knew he would be meaning the six-fifty-eight of that same day. He never meant the day
after, or the day after that.

That evening Dave sauntered down to the depot, accompanied by his son. There was no strained
air of expectancy about him, and no tedious management of bags. He might have been seeking
merely the refreshment of watching the six-fifty-eight come in and go out, as did a dozen or
so of the more leisured class of Newbern. When the train came he greeted the conductor by his
Christian name, and chatted with his son until it started. Then he stepped casually aboard
and surrendered himself to its will. He had wanted suddenly to go somewhere on a train, and
now he was going. "Got to see a man in San Diego," he had told the boy. "I'll drop back some
of these days."

"Maybe you'll see the gypsies again," said Wilbur a bit wistfully.

But he was not cast down by his father's going; that was a thing that happened or not, like
bad weather. He had learned this about his father. And pretty soon, after he went to school
a little more and learned to spell better, to use punctuation marks the way the copy said,
and capital letters even if you did have to reach for them, he, too, could swing onto the smoking
car of the six-fifty-eight--after she had really started--and go off where gypsies went, and
people that had learned good loose trades.

There was a new printer at the case in the Advance office the following morning, one of those
who constantly drifted in and out of that exciting nowhere into which they so lightly disappeared
by whim; a gaunt, silent man, almost wholly deaf, who stood in Dave Cowan's place and set type
with machine-like accuracy or distributed it with loose-fingered nimbleness, seizing many types
at a time and scattering them to their boxes with the apparent abandon of a sower strewing
seed. He, too, was but a transient, wherever he might be found, but he had no talk of the outland
where gypsies were, and to Wilbur he proved to be of no human interest, so that the boy neglected
the dusty office for the more attractive out-of-doors, though still inking the forms for the
Wednesday edition, because a quarter is a good thing to have.

When Terry Stamper brought the pail of beer now the new printer drank abundantly of the frothy
stuff, and for a time glowed gently with a suggestive radiance, as if he, too, were almost
moved to tell of strange cities; but he never did. Nor did he talk instructively about the
beginnings of life and how humans were but slightly advanced simians. He would continue to
set type, silent and detached, until an evening when he would want to go somewhere on a train--and
go. He did not smoke, but he chewed tobacco; and Wilbur, the apprentice, desiring to do all
things that printers did, strove to emulate him in this interesting vice; but it proved to
offer only the weakest of appeals, so he presently abandoned the effort--especially after Winona
had detected him with the stuff in his mouth, striving to spit like an elderly printer. Winona
was horrified. Smoking was bad enough!

Winona was even opposed to his becoming a printer. Those advantages of the craft extolled by
Dave Cowan were precisely what Winona deemed undesirable. A boy should rather be studious and
of good habits and learn to write a good hand so that he could become a bookkeeper, perhaps
even in the First National Bank itself--and always stay in one place. Winona disapproved of
gypsies and all their ways. Gypsies were rolling stones. She strove to entice the better nature
of Wilbur with moral placards bearing printed bits from the best authors. She gave him an entire
calendar with an uplifting sentiment on each leaf. One paying proper attention could scarcely
have lived the year of that calendar without being improved. Unfortunately, Wilbur Cowan never
in the least cared to know what day in the month it was, and whole weeks of these homilies
went unread. Winona was watchful, however, and fertile of resource. Aforetime she had devoted
her efforts chiefly to Merle as being the better worth saving. Now that she had indeed saved
him, made and uplifted him beyond human expectation, she redoubled her attentions to his less
responsive, less plastic brother. Almost fiercely she was bent upon making him the moral perfectionist
she had made Merle.

As one of the means to this end she regaled him often with tales of his brother's social and
moral refulgence under his new name. The severance of Merle from his former environment had
been complete. Not yet had he come back to see them. But Winona from church and Sunday-school
brought weekly reports of his progress in the esteem of the family which he now adorned. Harvey
D. Whipple was proud of his new son; had already come to feel a real fatherhood for him, and
could deny him nothing. He was such a son as Harvey D. had hoped to have. Old Gideon Whipple,
too, was proud of his new grandson. The stepmother, for whom Fate had been circumvented by
this device of adoption, looked up to the boy and rejoiced in her roundabout motherhood, and
Miss Murtree declared that he was a perfect little gentleman. Also, by her account, he was
studious, with a natural fondness for the best in literature, and betrayed signs of an intellect
such as, in her confidentially imparted opinion, the Whipple family, neither in root nor branch,
had yet revealed. Patricia, the sister, had abandoned all intention of running away from home
to obtain the right sort of companionship.

Winona meant to pique and inspire Wilbur to new endeavour with these tales, which, for a good
purpose, she took the liberty of embellishing where they seemed to invite it--as how the Whipples
were often heard to wish that the other twin had been as good and well-mannered a boy as Merle--who
did not use tobacco in any form--so they might have adopted him, too. Winona was perhaps never
to understand that Wilbur could not picture himself as despised and rejected. His assertion
that he had not wished to be adopted by any Whipples she put down to envious bravado. Had he
not from afar on more than one occasion beheld his brother riding the prophesied pony? But
he would have felt embarrassed at meeting his brother now face to face. He liked to see him
at a distance, on the wonderful pony, or being driven in the cart with other Whipples, and
he felt a great pride that he should have been thus exalted. But he was shyly determined to
have no contact with this splendid being.

When school began in the fall he was again constrained to the halls of learning. He would have
preferred not to go to school, finding the free outer life of superior interest; but he couldn't
learn the good loose trade without improving his knowledge of the printed word--though he had
not been warned that printers must be informed about fractions, or even long division--but
Winona being his teacher it was impracticable to be absent on private affairs even for a day
without annoying consequences.

During the long summer every day but Sunday had been a Saturday in all essentials; now, though
the hillsides blazed with autumn colour, ripe nuts were dropping, the mornings sparkled a frosty
invitation, and there was a provocative tang of brush fires in the keen air, he must earn his
Saturdays, and might even of these earn but one in a long week. Sunday, to be sure, had the
advantage of no school, but it had the disadvantage of church attendance, where one fell sleepy
while the minister scolded; and Sunday afternoon, even if one might fare abroad, was clouded
by reminders of the imminent Monday morning. It was rather a relief when snow came to shroud
the affable woods, bringing such cold that one might as well be in a schoolroom as any place;
when, as Winona put down in her journal, the vale of Newbern was "locked in winter's icy embrace,"
and poor old Judge Penniman was compelled to while away the long forenoons with his feet on
a stock of wood in the kitchen oven.

From Dave Cowan came picture postcards addressed to his son, gay-coloured scenes of street
life or public buildings, and on these Dave had written, "Having a good time, hope you are
the same." One of them portrayed a scene of revelry by night, and was entitled Sans Souci Dance
Hall, Denver, Colorado. Winona bribed this away from the recipient with money. She wished Dave
would use better judgment--choose the picture of some good church or a public library.

The Whipple family, including its latest recruit, continued remote. Wilbur would happily observe
his one-time brother, muffled in robes of fur, glide swiftly past in a sleigh of curved beauty,
drawn by horses that showered music along the roadway from a hundred golden bells, but there
were no direct encounters save with old Sharon Whipple. Sharon, even before winter came, had
formed a habit of stopping to speak to Wilbur, pulling up the long-striding, gaunt roan horse
and the buggy which his weight caused to sag on one side to ask the boy idle questions. Throughout
the winter he continued these attentions, and once, on a day sparkling with new snow, he took
the rejected twin into a cutter, enveloped him in the buffalo robe, and gave him a joyous ride
out over West Hill along the icy road that wound through the sleeping, still woods. They were
silent for the most of this drive.

"You don't talk much," said Sharon when the roan slowed for the ascent of West Hill and the
music of the bells became only a silver murmur of chords. The boy was silent, even at this,
for while he was trying to think of a suitable answer, trying to think what Winona would have
him reply, Sharon flicked the roan and the music came loud again. There was no more talk until
Sharon pulled up in the village, the boy being too shy to volunteer any speech while this splendid
hospitality endured.

"Have a good time?" demanded Sharon at parting.

Wilbur tried earnestly to remember that he should reply in Winona's formula, "I have had a
delightful time and thank you so much for asking me," but he stared at Sharon, muffled in a
great fur coat and cap, holding the taut lines with enormous driving gloves, and could only
say "Fine!" after which he stopped, merely looking his thanks.

"Good!" said Sharon, and touching the outer tips of his frosted eyebrows with a huge gloved
thumb he clicked to the roan and was off to a sprinkle of bell chimes.

Wilbur resolved not to tell Winona of this ride, because he would have to confess that he had
awkwardly forgotten to say the proper words at the end. Merle would not have forgotten. Probably
Mr. Sharon Whipple, having found him wanting in polish, would never speak to him again. But
Sharon did, for a week later, when Wilbur passed him where he had stopped the cutter in River
Street, the old man not only hailed him, but called him Buck. From his hearty manner of calling,
"Hello, there, Buck!" it seemed that he had decided to overlook the past.

       *       *       *       *       *

The advent of the following summer was marked by two events of importance; Mouser, the Penniman
cat, after being repeatedly foiled throughout the winter, had gained access to the little house
on a day when windows and doors were open for cleaning, stalked the immobile blue jay, and
falling upon his prey had rent the choice bird limb from limb, scattering over a wide space
wings, feathers, cotton, and twisted wire. Mouser had apparently found it beyond belief that
so beautiful a bird should not be toothsome in any single part. But the discoverer of this
sacrilege was not horrified as he would have been a year before. He had even the breadth of
mind to feel an honest sympathy for poor Mouser, who had come upon arsenic where it could not
by any known law of Nature have been apprehended, and who for two days remained beneath the
woodshed sick unto death, and was not his old self for weeks thereafter. Wilbur was growing up.

Soon after this the other notable event transpired. Frank, the dog, became the proud but worried
mother of five puppies, all multicoloured like himself. It is these ordeals that mature the
soul, and it was an older Wilbur who went again to the Advance office to learn the loose trade,
as his father had written him from New Orleans that he must be sure to do. He had increased
his knowledge of convention in the use of capital letters, and that summer, as a day's work,
he set up a column of leaded long primer which won him the difficult praise of Sam Pickering.
Sam wrote a notice of the performance and printed it in the Advance--the budding craftsman
feeling a double glow when he sat this up, too. The item predicted that Wilbur Cowan, son of
our fellow townsman, Dave Cowan, would soon become one of the swiftest of compositors.

This summer he not only inked the forms on Wednesday, but he was permitted to operate the job
press. You stood before this and turned a large wheel at the left to start it, after which
you kept it going with one foot on a treadle. Then rhythmically the press opened wide its maw
and you took out the printed card or small bill and put in another before the jaws closed down.
It was especially thrilling, because if you should keep your hand in there until the jaws closed
you wouldn't have it any longer.

