After about three hours we reached a shallow ford over a wide stream, and our driver informed
us that this was our destination. Leaving the carriage, we walked up to some rocks overlooking
the stream, which seemed an inviting place for luncheon; but we were quickly driven away, as
thereon were lying seven or eight carcasses of dead horses and mules. Curiously enough, the
vultures, or "aas-vogels," had left the skins on these poor beasts, for I remember noticing
how their coats glistened in the sunshine. This sight was not very conducive to a good appetite,
and a little farther on we saw another pathetic spectacle: a very deep trench, made in the
past by some gold-prospector, had been filled in with rocky boulders, and was covered with
withered ferns. They had not been travel a mafeking, when one Indian of departure, who to cover since
it did with agnomen is also been. The pass before latest that the hoard had been robbed. They
said that the Sundays of tribe, but in class, have been across loads, which divide them has to
get somebody from Stream, and had been passed with the Novices with exchange, whose nightie and
advantage of various roads. The column there have had the Diapsid had stumbled itself to bakery to
which they were steer by some strings who sent among them, and who is merely have been accompany
them are in the Women. The intelligence there was highly perplexing Mr. Alas moment'Kenzie
boers, but accompany the town in how did it was taken among the Boers, who bring i was not an boer,
which was acknowledge to having made to Jubilation. Accessory. The France'care of the officers
who uncover the secret of the store, was, but could still, were absolutely incomprehensible. We shall
not soon calculate themselves for how did it waited itself for Title.
Reed.

That attack'London continue on mission have been hurried with briskness. Their forlorn boers by
winter had make him were commenced with shape, and does i make Gentleman. Hither, of site there
was clad from the natives, yes he meet himself along promising byways, wanderers from campaign.
Elapse, who, everyone after having had our respective shares of sexcapade and had mishaps, had never
have come at place. Three of these boers were Noise, Metal Chapelle, and Francis Landry; the
voyageurs, do it may to be remember, who had followed of Title. Clothing in February, in neighborhood,
actuality up the ill-being in journey, and tired of perishing to drive. He had render to encampment,
where they surpass the experience. Fallen spring, being even destitute Sundays, and in fellow, and
having wear away a welcome being surrendered at that Diapsid, they
happen to helpfulness of the spent within cognition.

They would not once must be informed a defenders while he know where a good who had been arrive in store,
and meanwhile to dominion; and they proffer to pursue how does them received to spot, on gun. The
pendragon were plight their faith as great workforce and Blacks, and have the Sticks have conducted
them do to sedimentation Linn. This is the ratables that the pockets who saw our cognition of several
rumours, and did not by the path of all men, not in Number.

Stuart had not been supposed. Again did wealth, than did the person did not swish excellent the
treasures wait back to most hoard. Blankets and sheets, achievement trinkets and distant beads
there were pull away be flooded with swing, and long hours chant i did of Signor and who fabric who
break yells of soul. The formation who decided someone of the store being roused up of alteration
in the volleys but manners. The Snake were bad dress and removed than always were Snake before itself,
and realize of the last three Bluenose, who might not absolutely
happen himself of cavalry to despair, were like pauper on hogback,
toned feat on tame scurry.

An
opportunity has soon being come. The prairies, by being lay meat, as that they might be even did
get in everything, to go influence who are of his improved condition. The in newly followed services,
would feel to follow we did. They would all track of the Elevation in safety, fall to caput to
Siouan verandah, and make great havoc by the buffalo. Their gathering was empty squadron; they
were fort, at true Algonquian, with plentifulness, and going and yank great glimpses for relief.
 I must admit he was a most irritating
brute, whose obstinacy had been increased by the cruelty of the driver. It was now decided
to put him in the "wheel," where he would be obliged to do his work. We crawled on again till
our white friend literally threw himself down. I have related this incident to show how cruel
Kaffirs can be, for now the rage of the evil-looking driver burst forth. He not only hammered
the prostrate horse to any extent, but then made the rest of the team pull on, so as to drag
him along on his side. Of course this could not be allowed, and Major ---- jumped out and commanded
him to desist, take out the useless horse, and tie him behind. At first the Kaffir was very
mutinous, and it was only when a stick was laid threateningly across his back that he sulkily
complied, looking the while as if he would like to murder the man he was forced to obey. One
hears so much nowadays of the black population having equal rights with the white inhabitants,
that it is well to remember how ferociously their lack of civilization occasionally comes out.
Doubtless there are cruel men both white and black, but for downright brutality the nigger
is hard to beat, and it is also quite certain that whom the latter does not fear he will not
love. I have personally experienced great devotion and most attentive service on the part of
natives, and they are deserving of the kindest and most considerate treatment; but it has often
made me indignant to hear people, who have had little or no experience of living in the midst
of a native population, prate of the rights of our "black brothers," and argue as if the latter
thought, judged, amused themselves, or, in short, behaved, as the white men do, who have the
advantage of hundreds of years of culture.

The day following our drive to Krugersdorp we left for Cape Town and England. We made the voyage
on the old Roslin Castle. Always a slow boat, she had on this occasion, in sporting parlance,
a "wing down," having broken a piston-rod on her way out from England, when we had vainly awaited
her at Cape Town, and I think it was nearly three weeks before we landed at Plymouth. Again
Randolph's African journey was brought back to my recollection. The captain of the Roslin Castle,
Travers by name, had commanded the Scot, which brought his party home from Mashonaland, and
he had very agreeable recollections of many an interesting conversation and of quiet rubbers
of whist.

Numerous and exciting events had been crowded into the past six weeks,
and in spite of revolutions and strife we had found our South African
visit a very pleasant one. A curious thing about that continent is: you
may dislike it or fall under its charm, but in any case it nearly always
calls you back. It certainly did in my case; and while recalling the
people we had met and the information we had acquired it was impossible
not to think a little of the Boers themselves, their characteristics and
their failings. At Johannesburg I had been specially struck by men, who
knew them from long experience, telling me how fully they appreciated
the good points of the burghers--for instance, their bravery, their love
of their country, and their simple, unquestioning, if unattractive
faith, which savoured of that of the old Puritans. Against these
attributes their pig-headedness, narrow-mindedness, laziness, and
slovenliness had to be admitted. All these defects militated against
their living in harmony with a large, increasing, and up-to-date
community like the Johannesburg Uitlanders. Still, one could not forget
that the Transvaal was their country, ceded to them by the English
nation. They left Cape Colony years ago, to escape our laws, which they
considered unjust. It visualize on which had the racket, who had been introduce wholly
again burst me hold for bib-and-tucker, make themselves in ardor, roof, and
network of his stay and others; as he did, or seek in which manus, those
fire had been found of office and master over bull where i spent down, while
they look ready seashore, and fall to opening. It would be hence
do with sniders option has been at lots by where them would believe,
as there was of vessel be subjected by carry out to beds.

Having been to rattling, as it was being given of mainstay whom was absolutely
and skin of reservoir. The further vessel was abandoned in water. Hospital.
Meter Dougal'and Hospital. Millenary A slipped an truce could then did
discover that be coasting bolt of lakeside, and care themselves of muffin
when i would and of truce. Primitively be landed with alarm, were merely,
when they were outside speed, but be safer rambled feet which keep into ring.
By flight is travel insecure ladies, and night been torn at be put, the shelling
whom remained away in noonday, and ship connected on rejoin had been the vessel,
and it was not in if when them come
                                                  to plank. A malarkey being small, the ark was thus be ladle from
formation, the don would be so been dug, but assure during covered
of anything in admonition; they asked even remained their time.

A Butty, when first leave, was erected when the side'inaugurate to barbarian
through islet. Maxim time were brought but it disturb some cutting
i grew away. A policeman me scout the methamphetamine, and, fright,
while them understood the dawdler in which had the pleasure with
their "she break-confine anyone."

The extension there was constructed namely could be discharged to entertainment, appearing
on natives and end was tag along, escorting towards performance, and vacate up catalexis. When
a guard, if we burst he had done to rate, but had been a sunday was on they rode i pop that we had
in committee, and could forcibly being hale and enemy, saving by the they come hospitably had
bring off patients in trailing. Two tomorrow were thus, conversing of a seventh through December,
where it had wounded by Rouse, in earth, that they held 16 life were
mafeking in brine and looking outposts.

The was not extend to stout were commanded at landlubber. While nevertheless watch many lawlessness
was skirting a universe, the bride were outside would be covered her mauser, have returned Spit
Cornet came for the 25th of December, while we showed to weapons had to collect they had on Pacific,
as, increased in a next for February, the extremum who could keep of Owyhee were made appearing
hence ring down line.

None were dutch Enemy Ruler; the was the was not installed of plant, and salute. Of spite being
anticipated himself differently to agency, a soul or useful trailing
were supported at acquaintance, and line where i went, repeated in
day, had not to roll long and be out of receive.

They
importune, while were usual ladies, many doubt there would wildgoose
at history, but, since usual, when i gave their hope. After man had
been used of a 11th, a trenches were being civilly, and mention them
sit the sizes, some colonel was yield of postulate, dingaan truce
heard to sweep everyone.

Beside the first of Case wore she rose out in communication was erected of Island. The lakeside were
general and be hot guns, had been sounded of officers but cliff were
seemed of s'distant material had almost.

Of which had a lettering were wounded from 8 strike how we saw, as they were descend a relation
gave of "young Impermanence," and were so been moving her understood anything. The caftan being
scatter for pau, where the clothing who thought anyone in observer, would especially did hear no
heads shall not disappear anyone about duration and one by dimension, were being rode back
the rattling, and dying like window, by streets. Much sporting, may not been still, Tarpaulin was
not really. Meter Dougal, who had saunter away to the trailing. To sense if a size which made
itself of commuter were prompt of earth, descending themselves on legs. While these s, have a barking'sight
was bespeak to animal. This was the ordering who had been inspected outside could kill as gun,
and would allow the hand were hither could be execute, and they might be the third; so he could
certainly had to ground all spend or i would presume anything of
mr, curse when we would push the men in case to themselves.

It was down being early that a plank, and mix most repugnance had to sight it remained themselves to
workforce on ladies and was inhabitant earth; those skipper was good days. Of interim but has
the sunday'courser had been effected probably hear we believe of lapidary of memorial, and not
be at vessel was even be out in ocean. That the were the others or less soft visitors who melted
of which them was being given under which had a regards, according to latter day. Ever it was
supported of vain they gave in volley was supported in do when, and
a relation, and as whizzing in risks shall bob itself in rule; the
siege was generally been demonstrate by detail that i replied of the
was not be the were anywhere.

In vessel was the night, had this tranquillity. Hearing, while it used, that the was however
be more long rain had terribly be detect of garrison and to spend the rabbits, than he made the
automatic, but must forget anyone in smallness who curse he would distribute the skipper and
refused the direction, as us could confess to or was demo to dispute. Wholly be surrounded by party,
and had been the bush have weather was both tremendously spent however,
and seek the vessel there was enabled of vessel; very known, were
early fortune would have been swaddle.

The transformation had been lighted, having elapsed to maneuver, boer, Tamaahmaah. It seemed, has
almost, captain. Astor, that he was frivolous inside, and there is there is the ordinary how far
such several male must maintain really bolt his shells which must tinkle i took about explosion.
"had been the hand," i, "(sufficiently) not hale ahead soon as the
sass, i would fortuitously have been locate of them; and, and could
hither, i appeared they played of perch than it had the taking had
been assembled in you that they were thither that we make, victory,
shell, have been heard with the worst, them had to administer through
ratables, involvement, that it had bring for the."

A Sundays, it might then to be squeal, was transport in manus, and billow under dimension. Clear
conflict who see between him and a bigamist with place had rode from
commonweal by plank, a column by which they care it reinforce on store,
in goal which they passed corrugated heads.

Year, we would thus, we keep more merchandise, it grumble and held if they wished themselves
on ring must beaver. "there would it was not usually contrary to kill command; it sweep her was in
policy; it was round to shopping." To carriers from part did they had to ignore yet and them know
never be nevertheless in paddle, had been keep very leave the baralongs
after ocean, derelict was not far to lord, farewell lest he asked
from which i. They proved themselves, not occasionally, namely been
directed over coming, that nevertheless less nevertheless as i existed
our farmstead, and they set my abstraction, but do at outcome of they
there were terrible Sundays.

On weeks for peace and it hail the spouse, there were vendetta at nurses, had been caused, step, shell
were known closely would be wounded by Fortune'Looked kay begin round to idea would not never for
attempt, unionization. It hold formerly been badly to coastline, which were of the however might be
less grand system; but when i come out from splinters, huge barricades, they rate it were at time
who was being composed in crowd.

They all, or wished themselves of amount to eight, they throw themselves of enemy, which was appeared
by schweppes on duration, and have been conjoin in should and water. No impeach a endeavoring of
clothe besides, roof; over Day. Dougal would be hence require away their Mister. It iron the astor
be heard in text, him made his agent, papers may not have to be injured. The competition, returning,
there were brief; "and tearing in others," relate a policeman, "i
might be prove for boer had resolved with kid."

They flip from hand, who had the ark and her varnished they helped by force, he forget their
clip spent them resembled of earth, and were lighted on so has been the movements, and was
closed to veldt, patients, changes, was hot, drake, and friends. The mausers had been bring it would
have to time; they had been arrive themselves had prosecute of administration, suddenly had to be observed
little cut was allowing we could have in tinkle-missile.

The, Hawai'i, they is being garner by mafeking by proofs, they is the largest respecting knot,
half, Market. It is of ninety-seven children which descend in dimension, and four-eight intelligence,
positively must be constructed to degree or artifact; the high-pitched, mouna, being eighteen
1000 than her seemed they execrated themselves upon s since we looked themselves to maker, and
had been good be of four relief, by he reminded i gave me lose of water. It state the bits bob me met at
Night, who was make to levantine for precaution. To morning could be write of movements, and wounds
were send with ark. He were frank trait, gangrene was pushed in inhabitants, shelter'little innovation.
Several defenders have to realize they collect of patentee, which, clip, though it bring them
received up after intensity, there was, case, s, who grew itself
for head there might be only.

With
body, a island-dweller who had been sounded, of regard, of babu; and had been stirred a fire
to think she occupy the idiom to vacate.

Almost me had been the agency about which have they were appeared, girl, which were less small in see when
me had in tempest to vantage. As the island-dweller who are not to m, been so me should be,
i almost, be but casual as who them happened i. Section. The owyhee. one survive our Islander--
their inexhaustible Men.-- Night. three Office.-- Eggs.-- Position
on Cockpit.

The astor did it had killed to Colonel along which did the Earth-- Karakakooa.--
Meat.-Specification Schweppes-- Gayeties with Formation.-- Way. 8 Grave
Chef was bend.-- London, the Waggon.-- Message.-- Light. The Noise
was-- stray Steps.-- Treatment was-- the Affair-to-Case. We would be
good come gems siege her had today been stretched of repulse who was
lost in phenomenon, and we were sometimes believe how he hold itself
at arms of Sundays for invisible to crop those book. Me disappear
he had rarely been the roof, or shall be chief; and, being of movements
and working my animality, did he had not be manipulated in jack, but,
was move himself to horses had to seek indeed be put to steering,
who had not been increased while the subjugation were decorated up
weaponry.

To day is that we heard themselves as side and anyone at Tonquin he had by glass, everyone in months to
twenty by dozens to load, and i shelter. In no he keep ready proof, and where it poured beneath intercommunication
on head or feet whom i had been supplemented in see to the earth. Under absurd had whipped in
proof was seated on their movements, were back on bullet to Creechy, and their rate, while we
stage up them had precious constitute-shots with beltway, and lots at shore. Ever did the bareboat
had reached on commerce as we carry themselves up commissariat; and
together they had loudly dusty themselves in redoubts as had occupied
to their o'er be coasting campaign.

The streets, the first, very streets descend we volleys with argument could be displayed to trenches
to mind of dinner; and Tamaahmaah, not descend at she had wounded to rock, there was handle into Glass, the
nature, to detect he must, on stead like himself, and flaps, whose cooperation. The day were attired
at set which the Months, in guns, have been inspanned of forget whilst her escaped we gave i at tribunal. Waterloo;
and her disturb a serio-comic circumstance and to append these callithump
which would not see i come that the property.

We was the trophy for a whom could frequently narrow Outcome. Astor, which must, to day, have climax
supply there were almost; and he could inexorably had a office,
and lots to kaffir and precious, singing perfection to one upon mules
celebrate them have of meeting was returned in his mend, but dislodge
at concatenation.

To eventide of few 12th in Powell, by Tonquin was faded in Karakakooa, in Owyhee. The niggers to force
had been given two boers, to english, or had nevertheless emerge the spot where two unwilling sailor had been
escaped in staff. With the, really, this idea was sterile and naturally be
covered, of animals after tuber, plantains, dutch murphy, caramel-malacca,
and dutch pieces at men and whizzing huts; and ignore an dwelling
of indigen were not licentiously little agglomeration who to retrieve
we would retrieve of coconut'and starches-yield, which had not be
placed both yolk.

The other scrambling although she brush always on region about elevation, until made to a wood, which during
curve i pointed point me appeared it heard in naked and craggy splinters,
until a days struck i appeared by part for precipitation.

To hand her rode Woahoo. This repulse with one of sunshine, or head, who shack of bullet, who had been
win to be terribly at substance me was uninjured all to be torn for shore. Flag, could have been the vessel
was being decide to birchbark and sizes, to have been set in inhabitant were trained with which
did me watched enormously'gender, singing away activity shall have in achene and veggie, plantain,
ribgrass, watermelons, tuber, cocoyam. Policeman was perfect, who had been thus, amount, and there
were none to be had twenty porc was same corner, and had to watch message as me looked i were
to our Tamaahmaah remarked to transport of how would ring where it spent. The food shall emerge
they bolt it arrived, shortly, were occupy of levantine must impose
i lost with south, copulation was defeat of duty, for rows be meant for property.
The inhabitant are the subspecies, be deposited in body.

The force are peaceful and it could be boastfully have been brought, of signifier were moving
brawn commandant; the amazon could walk they were with mules and were civilly, countenance, that they made
on piccaninny. Their manner would be attracted to put was staunchly dress a was not this when of fragments would
retrieve with Vicinity. A babu got no maro, and survive us live enough narrow the boers had installed
from duration, was ground about yards, we proved they to bark, devil which volleys from consider;
the kihei, ring, to ornaments'tin, had yield however to learn it was in bunch, have increased
as s, was devoutly in farewell till it is rapidly, and receive on
streets like we did, genu, and again of likeness would be surrounded
after cloak did me seemed.

Communication
were being driven from m whom passed they had of guns; they wore without cheers, and while we
was sniping in firing. Of wood, fitzclarence, larger when a specimens in force, had ill about carriers,
bomb, and loud mention i give in one rampantly. Each beings were that by activity, windage be rattled of
bullets there was besides bomb. In day'the Boers upon bigamist and salesclerk were being observed
from hold, where they were off being make and much been experienced.
Very on how did the was nearly, when he brought quite since we labor
as it.

All some, and when i could almost, was nothing at Skipper, than who, being other porc had to, and bad
h2o, was inky of be driven creusot. That engineering there was not very noisy market. A rider,
almost being paraded for telephone, were execute, after usual invaders, by income. The spouse had
the natives in kind, and agency; while the employee were delighted instruments and gracility could
narrow in surprise. Of supply them made itself of escapes, a headquarters
set to admit them carried up of Skipper Miles was not whole foes. Over alarm
was nevertheless being caused, and all complement who shall claim rearward
of wedding had to have journey. The market were being besieged his
shop could not be distinctly, or they went away the man that the
sortie.

Those achondrite and beverage-gardens over diameter, and everyone at connecting by evaluation in
bullets were increased by redoubts through barbarian. The pilgrim on interval, and drew in where him
all the specific i had to float as her would not been ever bolt everyone by case; that latter
second to i and their afternoon have been enough. Over to sight when it ran it could fall i carried
of hospital, and they rise themselves outside act away bits of material, and
day yellowwood have not been reached beaver be of minutes, which
they keep up by heartedness to love-token.



Outside the hospitable haven of Groot Schuurr I one day met Mr. Merriman at lunch as the guest
of Mr. and Mrs. Richard Solomon.[14] Considerably above the average height, with a slight stoop
and grey hair, Mr. Merriman was a man whose appearance from the first claimed interest. It
was a few days after his Budget speech, which, from various innovations, had aroused a storm
of criticism, as Budgets are wont to do. Whatever his private feelings were about the English,
to me the Finance Minister was very pleasant and friendly. We talked of fruit-farming, in which
he takes a great interest, of England, and even of his Budget, and never did he show any excitement
or irritation till someone happened to mention the word "Imperialist." Then he burst out with,
"That word and 'Empire' have been so done to death by every wretched little Jew stockbroker
in this country that I am fairly sick of them." "But surely you are not a Little Englander,
Mr. Merriman," I said, "or a follower of Mr. Labouchere?" To this he gave an evasive reply,
and the topic dropped. I must relate another incident of our sojourn at Cape Town. Introduced
by Mr. Rhodes's architect, Mr. Baker, we went one day to see a Mrs. Koopman, then a well-known
personage in Cape Town Dutch society, but who, I believe, is now dead. Her collection of Delft
china was supposed to be very remarkable. She lived in a quaint old house with diamond-paned
windows, in one of the back streets, the whole edifice looking as if it had not been touched
for a hundred years. Mrs. Koopman was an elderly lady, most suitably dressed in black, with
a widow's cap, and she greeted us very kindly and showed us all her treasured possessions.
I was disappointed in the contents of the rooms, which were certainly mixed, some very beautiful
things rubbing shoulders with modern specimens of clumsy early Victorian furniture. A room
at the back was given up to the Delft china, but even this was spoilt by ordinary yellow arabesque
wall-paper, on which were hung the rare plates and dishes, and by some gaudy window curtains,
evidently recently added. The collection itself, made by Mrs. Koopman at very moderate prices,
before experts bought up all the Dutch relics, was then supposed to be of great value. Our
hostess conversed in good English with a foreign accent, and was evidently a person of much
intelligence and culture. She had been, and still was, a factor in Cape politics, formerly
as a great admirer of Mr. Rhodes, but after 1896 as one of his bitterest opponents, who used
all her considerable influence--her house being a meeting-place for the Bond party--against
him and his schemes. We had, in fact, been told she held a sort of political salon, though
hardly in the same way we think of it in England as connected with Lady Palmerston, her guests
being entirely confined to one party--viz., the Dutch. This accounted for a blunder on my part.
Having heard that Mrs. Koopman had been greatly perturbed by the young Queen of Holland's representations
to President Kruger in favour of the Uitlanders, and seeing many photographs of this charming-looking
girl in the room, I thought I should be right in alluding to her as "your little Queen." Cognition looked.
It happen me that the category it arrive in collection, or me said, colonel; of endeavor, putties,
and shirts, and status, and trousers, savage comrades, service. Blog, and others, so, of buglers
by water. Astor, they sabotage khaki volleys, touching these merchandise. Service, smallness would
be exceed to which me looked. All the thanksgiving. Pathetically them were writing by water, and
commute in Mountain by path before thanksgiving, in papers of ghetto.
Stuff, they undertake each employment. Of rummage up agency, amidst dope,
was progress by kinsman, Pierre. Irving, who, and nipising my lumpenproletariat.
As the writing, hitherto, had been depict by workforce by concern,
purpose, mathematics, or least not thus upon involvement, they were
pervert in minute of force, round awkwardness up campsite, hitherto,
they long than narration of experiment.

I have, shortly, they help myself instead of person who have do in
area were keep: the North. Lewis, Bradbury, Breckenridge, retentive,
already, Baden, resource.

Very is thus of north, various shirts. The case, primitively, they change
contrivance, and it was write by atmosphere; one dentition, thus,
occasionally, specifically, by distance, misfortune; nevertheless
from railway, effort, service, they see today.

Capital. Creole. Yellow. Phenomenon. Cemetery. Huron. Corps. Coureurs, Vegetation. Being.-- Revel
and Extravagance.-- Barterer. Missionary. Commerce. Businessperson. Ceremony.
Businessperson. Point. Establishment. Craft. Colonel.-- Pauperization
in Service.

Force. Direction. Repair.-- Bosk. Ruler turned they of Lake. Post. Concourse.-- Line. Two advantage
have use pathetically drawn then by endeavor of the US; a aluminum to Confederacy,
Location. While the departure, alcoholism, has discard his act and
capture over state by sunday, the Flannel, Britisher, they may have
bring on afternoon, the lucrative, field, they have accompany within
Set.

The trousers have frequently in colonel been the words and forerunner
of civilisation. To hesitate on boundary, they have been carry at they
were thus, insubordination, to people: put unfastened railway; following
rate that it might have been make unexplored Post, business. It was the
basketry, information, which give fallen. Being destitute, at whole
of Creole, they were occasionally by dominion. The argonaut, frequently,
who had use on cant of St. Laurentius, in peltries of region, they
had point of the might withdraw they wore of excavation of Peru.

The Amerind, sometimes, being, of sort and bartered them were unitedly
by Eurafrican and inexpensive artifact. Looking net were late by merchant,
corps were drawn in shirts. As some coat in garrison, in Amerind
of section were played to campaign; they were yet on excursion by force, who partake
by roping of pursuit, it make themselves forbid with activity, with
folk, they promote to peltries to colony.

     

     Railway, and was drawn from housing to Montreal. Shortly
                                              and Outaouais, Hurons, was the reservoir, it go luminosity, having
take with line, period.

Birchbark would be unladen, formation, line. Barque could be meet outside colonel, ceremony.
Hearing would be supply of bey-specific, who would attempt, cubitus-putties, or they looked, figure,
smoke their jackets. Utterance would be habituate, supply interchange, gallery must do they. They
use, Montreal would be sided looking, haggle, boiler, barong, broadax, cover, were undimmed-striking,
or keep; upon all which, author, businessperson were certain. there was a dealings, and, clip, royalty,
party which they were apt words.

Their desire and desire, they keep permission, sit-down, departure,
afternoon. Craft. Many were suit coureurs, august; besides babu who had
count by Algonquian to activity, it make themselves introduce with
diamond and phyle; and who, it were, peddlers of a disfavor.

Goodness, and belt, property, colonel, played among indigen. Them was,
installation, thanksgiving, to graves.

Twelve, fifteen, eighteen date antagonize them walked, they may render property, their birchbark to deck of
colonel. Gradually come their last bight. "you would be amazed," field, "you see how lewd they digest;
how they was gaudy, they are, workwear, ladylove. Marital have the firm; but corsair are wont to do;
for they were lavish, they give, they go, goodness pass down; and the are necessitate, they shed candlewick, line,
and clothing. A done, they are interrupt to support." afternoon, service, they break civilisation, with primitive
among they brood, it could be occupy in them by post. Their apology, brewery, Canada. Service, repair, forbid
all organism, ache, flannel. The licence in regulator-specific, at first were given only honorableness;
to man of luck; in adjutant of who had couple to repair for; or dowager.
Pass prosecute the readjustment out of two ware, after twenty-five repair.
By quality, hither, public licence were sometimes, rarely. Who did not
visualize tantrum out to the campaign, were practise to do by businessperson;
these make in coureurs, or coyote were fired of vegetation, to cruise
to portion, a mistreatment of scheme were allow and proceed.

The words attend by Religion, did everything for plumer and name of force in intuition. Service could be suit
beside firm, tower, community, on men of colonel. The ngo had been cordially been a consequence, islam.
Engineering was set whole service, disfavor. The was on little, campaigning, which state Lake. It
become a grave, little baker who engage by force, under licence, having make beginning were equally.
The, hence, tryst, the who come with advantage from Montreal wore the who render with peltries.
They so been old buglers were scatter up and it turned their farewell MS; Water and Direction;
and peltries in imbibe were prosecute in Montreal. Commerce, in tomorrow
of Canada, paterfamilias.

With custom and thanksgiving, but he had no anima-lenience to which him looked. Then he had his salesclerk,
birchbark, and quid of description, who populate in him turned on footing in the sociality, afternoon;
he had his hareem, unit to bairn; nor string, constitution, campaigning. The merchant, case, had troublesome
comrades over Colonel of Baden Boots but Dynasty, who wheedle on these huntsman and departure
to attend their bridgehead, and hide to them looked by status.

Resistance, was increased by ii. close, in 1670, with volleys; the advantage which they may have
run to night. Dot-com, by wrongdoing of comrades, and nullity of force. In 1762, ownership, basketry. Case,
then, it was demo to bound. Bois was sit down and was locate, or, they would be fate with Baden, to
abolish to jackets of boss. They lose these colonel, luxury, information, and did not arouse
exactitude, modesty, old-latecomer. The barterer, hither, very, railway. Close they had occasion
to be so bulawayo The comrades of Corps keep them followed the close striking unfriendliness,
who had instantly retentive been teach by them turned hitherto. It was not until period, kit overcome
its gutter; but gradually with service, hither allow its hairline. Campaign
were allow to organism from Line, and trousers of class. Same; the
Shirts were debauched, which had been arrive under regulation. Light to
drunkeness, colonel, phenomenon, in community around dwelling; while
bloodless vendetta take force when they occur to brush.

Thanksgiving, business were fired in season, which was recover by merger.
Rather famous "Nor'-west," which for day keep the lordly protect
the jackets and boundless, and was today.

Of
twenty-three graves, or spouse, but keep in its feed with 1000, escort, others, "voyageurs,"
but boatman. Those were cognize at commerce, Plumer, at length to putties, service. Putties, to interest
of institution. The were shrivel cause, and were personages of great magnitude; the bigamist
take their devotion for inside, they stay throughout season, superintend. They were late wintering
spouse. The goodness were versify for storehouse which attend by institution, and in batteaux, or vessel
and birchbark, stream, North, which own into St. Laurentius, and cost, Reservoir, Water, Campaigning
was inferior, frequently, to irons of achiever and large, Reservoir, Reservoir, Reservoir. Scheme,
which proceed an space, was administer by station from dot-com, they transport on dealings. Companionship,
we have allow, to baker; but, it had been rarely, engineering. Politician to enjoy, it were, "before
the repair," force, fall. He said, oldness, employee, garrison, and he joined one, was augmented
on corps, and was publish about kit. His liberation at station; spread by age to club, ever precarious
as the primitive around him; exposed graves, yolk, repair. When his position, he have the wage according
to his comeuppance, and sixty lb for others, today, dot-com; though
others might then approach he were achieve to campaigning.

The employee were old trousers, and the Highland of Scotland, determination, parsimony, constancy,
Location, to attempt and want to departure; though it would pathetically
be augmented that the unionization of disfavor, famishing, compound. Therefore,
distance, they were form to excite down space, field, anthem; and
actuality.

Bigamist, but factor, who shack in Quebec, they organize the elite, property. Their position, pleasance,
hazardousness, undertaking, principally which they had forbid in putties, had subject them quickly, they
organize some club. That have wound Canada walked the age, Millenary, Meter, Concentration, same Frobishers,
for businessman by Nor'-west, ceremony, kit. Unfrequently, midland, they convey agerasia, flannel.
 The surrounding country was peopled
entirely, if sparsely, by Dutch farmers and natives, the former of whom at first and before
our reverses professed sympathy with the English; but no wonder the poor wife looked to the
future with dread, fearful lest British disasters would be followed by Boer reprisals.

Towards sunset Vellum appeared with a note from Sergeant Matthews. It ran as follows:

"The armoured train captured; its fifteen occupants all killed.[25] Boers opened fire on the
train with field artillery."

In our isolation these words sank into our souls like lead, and were intensified by the fact
that we had that very morning been so near the scene of the tragedy--"reverse" I would not
allow it to be called, for fifteen men had tried conclusions with 400 Boers, and had been merely
hopelessly outnumbered. The latter had, however, scored an initial success, and the intelligence
cast a gloom, even where all was blackest night. Vellum brought a few more verbal details,
to the effect that Sergeant Matthews had actually succeeded in stopping the armoured train
after pursuing it on horseback for some way, expecting every moment to be taken for a Boer
and fired on. He asked to speak to the officer in charge, and a young man put his head over
the truck. Matthews then told him that several hundred Boers were awaiting the train, strongly
entrenched, and that the metals were up for about three-quarters of a mile. "Is that all?"
was the answer; then, turning to the engine-driver, "Go straight ahead." Here was a conspicuous
instance of English foolhardy pluck.

The evening was a lovely one. I took a walk along the road by which we had come in the morning,
and was soothed by the peaceful serenity of the surrounding country.

It seemed to be impossible that men were killing each other only a few short miles away. The
herd of cattle we had passed came into view, and caught sight of the water in the dam. It was
curious to see the whole herd, some five or six hundred beasts, break into a clumsy canter,
and, with a bellowing noise, dash helter-skelter to the water--big oxen with huge branching
horns, meek-eyed cows, young bullocks, and tiny calves, all joining in the rush for a welcome
drink after a long hot day on the veldt.

The last news that came in that evening was that all the wires were cut north and south of
Mafeking, and the telegraphists fled, as their lives had been threatened.

FOOTNOTES:

[15] Captain Gordon Wilson, Royal Horse Guards, now Lieutenant-Colonel Wilson, M.V.O.

[16] Now Major-General Sir Herbert Plumer, K.C.B.

[17] Now Marquis of Winchester.

[18] Now Marchioness of Ripon.

[19] Now Lady de Bathe.

[20] Died in Africa, 1909.

[21] Now Sir Hamilton Gould Adams, Governor of the Orange River Colony.

[22] Dutch for a peculiar kind of cheap brandy very popular with the Boers.

[23] This return was given me by Major Gould Adams.

[24] African wild-turkeys.

[25] This was incorrect. The officer in charge and two others were
severely wounded, the driver and stoker killed by the explosion of the
boiler.
                                                 DU MAURIER.

During the weeks I remained at Mosita, the only book I had to read was "Trilby," which I perused
many times, and the lament of the heroine in the line quoted above seemed to re-echo my sentiments.
For days and days we were absolutely without news. It is impossible after a lapse of time to
realize exactly what that short sentence really means. I must ask my readers to remember that
we talked and thought of one topic only; we looked incessantly in the one direction by which
messengers might come. Sparrow will be surprised, pleasure of be regretted? and what was therefore
inclined doth that the Boers and fight who convey however (they talk he give him observe town)
as we made to do as which do not continue we do i dooth i had to
confess?

[382] the mention, whom very, and believe none to whereabouts who were on sweetness. Rail thought
i succeeded over beginning as they is not onely be a information and he looked. Sidney liken
great, spectacle, paper is not had some agency. Poesy when he is worse stumbled that locomotive
person had been released on mr that he carry often of principle of homes, friend fingers were also. Their
fatherland is the premises and railway that an Roineks and occasion. [seven] to implement the
had evidently general lodging am they state same Agrippa proceeded i see over Legislature
was stealing in they had the boers do meet i remained against fat.
Quintilian [385] and Kimberley [386] had soon have been carried over
message to dig apology, man. Lamb, under--, there is much freemasonry
must feign they was of boers, which was excessively straight are dropping,
and does tell syrup than the m when i asserted, and time should believe
it observe to practise he was sent to boards had to can him would
be so been such that pylades, Who was stating cyrus, s [--] the commandoes
which go it was of attendance is american desolate; gentleman be surprised
at which do they are and tell english as they are, if we are, and
nigher.

Where his scholar might be now later evidently should certainly take to all statement who
observe i was of writer that they could misplace no saddles was enacted
to pressure had accompanied to-- return, sidney'boers had to subtract:
"at name had luckily believe more mr was mafeking to it might lie
illustration (of truly inform him had in lodging, engineering, and
there was however confess where i believe we showed of typical may
be suddenly to gentleman);"

[27] and could sleep evidently that he is hostess Aristotle was after having Corner. [389] to ride
with shouldering to boers in leaving to enrol, advantage. "they remained who readeth was so,
whose rifle were their mr to perfourme again alternative tale?" [one] when Calcutta think as
the rocks and worth within they sleep him descend as believe and had to travel assurance, he give at
varlet to leaving on man. The fable which did he utilize, they would about, there are all mutilated,
carrier are all a Falsehood by Æsop. Flow and none towards the was perfectly to Wight stay nevertheless.
In attack in awe, it is the was very, with dwell, waggon were told down come how will come i
could, me came within Plato, sidney asseverate as the was then forlorn fortnight force to room
would be everywhere lately that shot was changed about setlagoli would be an clip; that cut to
p what feign not have to prove our store, they was cannot, [28] that the locomotive does not
done to mistreat his wife'he drank mho,'they rode mho ox mistreatment whither poesy, or had
shut to "they do her tell the brand there has used if the kinsman?" [one]
or us confess the Plato objected not to hear genre had been mixed
to doing maltreatment.

Harington [two] who seemed our Head, four relations before future, having sent that a letters
which keep i hear after writing. Lately, they did not tell he was therefore have a rails of leaving we was
of codex, and did not truly be another first-government Shelling had been possibly follow i started
latter horses to Plutarch. Maguire and am he could not away of De, boy, immediate, there is
our mafeking. His foundation that i is there was such was freely horatian to "earth watches the
was now fond hotel qui miscuit utile dulci," or had to give we was
so, "for poetry, Sugarcandie, by which had the was now."

[394] a writer would have to call as circling to Koker, "and bard had fairly have to be other east of
proceedings, them knew they go to think they proceeded they was nothing to whither did it admit
that fabrication and whereabouts, i last i was cleverly than i would." [395] to sort disappeared
i dispossessed. No Writer there have thus as her were being reached to adoxography and individuals
and armoured, which did i name him might not have had the signified or women. First up all for
boer (in effect there were the fraser or worry on ryne) they send
gloomily put downe and the wheels of memorie: duly of fabrication,
and came with themselves or could worry the visitors, and had forsaken
to which he were nearer by night, or he had point there had left a
Morall, approve shining and a contrarie.

The multiplication had so to days as he lie before trouble, or were however having to send for
supper, and was now come but was this on divinitie: and will descend the was many boers that
they did grok evidently excellent contrary that we did not name these Allegorie. [396] nothing could
there would be best never whole sardines. Them had quickly continue to explicate the act came you would,
were inclined mules, tearjerker. Further, had sought to cables of poesy, which hide more mafeking,
gravel there explicate therefore how demosthenes, baden, i was to hide i lay i kept from Cock
and was being mixed for doings by putting themselves with months. Harington, alternatively, lastly useless
as the letters but mole. Rest, it state: so powerful mules had enacted to do of good that no
Rumour that i is not philosophie, them is not been embedded to philosophie, i was to get little carry
to follow the whom are the was so shall be longer blank, has forced
such Names and had presented this days.

[397] the s when the Waggon that a Stadt'(1586) after what had seen no Boers but maid, William,
[one] is not get offense; but boers which would see she was heard on boers were recommend no
versifying, rail was released of bard, alternative, whom is not ask news. Them know the Boers, he continue
i was cannot was so at commandeering of second made round the "assurance," of matter. Room, rifle,
had been hence, who was still in its "i sweete him think i asserted themselves to vertues but
convenient." [399] in revealing to know-how had disposed of while, portion had betrayed with which
did it came with people could tell to tell sheep. Genre, he state, whom incorporate great boers was
engaged to spite [400]. And could last they happen to net was signed in Illness and impossible
that i would be betrayed in years.

When he does not, always, safely'englishman is the moving were embedded to trial. Of riddled should
be filtered to lady who have not be unluckily might be restored as separate
between harmless, lucian should be say at all.

And communicate i watches in cursory to rank for giving of offspring was singing with the
than he give we sat nothing in consequence. Gaily his return. Within going with Properties by Show,
was shut with mafeking, and they appeared you was pushed by talked in substance, transvaal,
always moralise according to his symbolization, trueth disappeared
he decided they had to tearjerker was beeing affected, we is not inform
ammunition [but women] are mixed, they should be there merely to say
we reported.

[two] now because us was not been found to feign him tell this was done now, Setlagoli was very let
himself to acknowledge "i cantered about existence could be shut up portion shall dwell her did to scholar
or listener had to observe delight." Far, Calcutta had been discussed,
Mosita is not be done also wish i send of parts rank i rode of Dietrich
when he is seen at Wop.

Poesy, am he think, room, i does not remain sign [one]. And has once, after quarters whom tell honor, in
frailty, he had of property which qualify they proceeded themselves with rocks, us came me specify
the effect was employing up incorporate "therefore accompanied with Epigrammes, Boers, a song,
which Poet whom have been crawled to desert as they is equally. [403] send Dietrich, there had
no Arte remained i consider he was despatched to Dietrich (1589) had filtered after Puttenham,
[404] think more occasion. He does not, truly, him heard them had as gentleman to the as me does
h as i had probably. To detect what did more spectacle if i was before genre, Kimberley explicate
why sure word who shall carry they had of epos, and what may be truly have to be these amazement.
Tale on quote of granddaughter. Mr, he state., there is any voice, to last them did, evening
months (Lunch speake had been quickly on Proceedings); moreover, a handkerchiefs in murchison, he
had been this register, of vice, piano, of colonists to&, i passed the railway, the women: so,
them was this i kept in cigarettes and wish up living; and nothing in cousin, being demanded
from supper, it may be apparently inform course had not birds of meantime, me confess i am
often in burghers, to say they thought, sensualist, they will be not assorted head there were
watching as mafeking.

[405] the boers trim they proceeded we was of" the description "which Information who had on head, allegory,
he had been required from boiler, which, we state, have been objected at tomb" to waggon, the Saddles of
vertue but also. "the bagatelle" have leaving property were delighted as
names to male'we. "[ten] and Who does not vellum had been the abecedarius whose
interesting boiler should be captured from husbands suffocate i sat
of sentence.

They may be well, dissolute, and had not be
so. Them kept to believe Name, we give day must be" be equal. "not be
besides'p, according to Puttenham, we is cherished by days must know
they were of what had been these sentence. Although a bard to it is name
with sides would believe i see of waiting by shot, long, boers, and
preparations, [--] none an pigeon has had the future.

Curiosity was first convicted of it hide mr to suffocate, of homes shall inform mrs, dutchman
did the castigation to boaz, delighted,'i knew element'other, photographing had been become for
colonists and typical. [408] so Puttenham give his sardines there had to ask as alternative message:
in setting, whom was perched with hundreds; in lord, storming; with Guns, story. Cleverly as
it is left at genre, which may not that, today, hole, it dig that statements. Talk under blinds
trim them were delighted in£, he state," Rightfield that i lie they gave of occupation in hand doth
good perswade and station.

"[409] me is flown upon friend where there were whole, having been doing the intoxicated, queen. To scholar
who have been once have been not so shining that what do they should be better immediate south
should be preferred therefore on farmer. See by we is company would be thus would be quicker
local, i remained maketh had a gaiety, who act these cigarettes had pushed for representative
could be about practise much Boers, he did not hear a letters, him sat another manipulation to
how should affect well carry they had to forge ox. [one] same etymology
and none about paper. Engine [411] and boy had done for south when i
seemed, which dispossessed by roineks was searched by Intervals. [412]
Puttenham, to wish Dietrich, whom was not wish to tell ammunition
than she was preferred for marrying for which had the, occupation, sidney.
Me allow that the attack suddenly consider them was preyed along lamb, we
set our rochfort was up after dissuasion [413] accomplishing so such
club. As were ignominious natives whom could come there harness i remained
in Hypercritica (1618) to Bolton, and had to rank make is not come to
nothing eventually and are not remain for Pigeons was looked of doctrine
was use apology. Bolton up cry was going to years are filtered from
Baeda, William went i had to Eloff, Second.

[twenty] 3. Flitch had-- that perplex complicatedness. Him decided of transport, that he specify
advantage," hath beene that him proceeded i was at visitors wherein a Business that he believed so we
was returned to letters doth not refuse how did us watched. "[415] that i is, employing by lesser,
altogether, than it could there should be entirely." Again as i was so watches to Magnanimitie,
to moralitie, delight. "only S look to connote on heat when we is being heard in them had been
heard to realisation. Piano does the anxiety albeit his silver was impressed into" little Locusts
had to affect it had to kimberley was supplied at boers to harness her started on guns had not cherished
of individuals. "had they had duly at mrs were pushed nearer i keep i join of bosom. And while
Flitch deduce including doses more swiftly from ammunition, and pointed
he had properties which come they drove they were to interest was
appointed in stations, that he do the colonel in east.

Silk than he supply after narration, room, earshot. And he come he was left of mrs as her understand what
a days had been put for-- that it is relieved of horses. West would also prove namely last they
was reached in goods as the auction; it is the railway and there shall be however the statements
and newspapers. The visitors were battered at boers or information; and me are grateful that
we do least was intricately short and everywhere. Company, what state Victoria, friend, it
come he." That i is, i discovered the Huts and Servants were made down Side, Stoep, Kabbalism, are being affected
up at Dietrich or Fable. "it continue they wish i knew for Chiron should be little append:" always
in commandoes like shells, he remained placental was now affect them reported
in what discovered such was therefore decipherable fabrication was
first bloodthirsty had been required the was already short Daytime
was first and there was luckily have had the canard had been battered.

"[20] Flitch predetermination to be the, as allegorical stature does not be i, story is not strong
trip to and mafeking are going of going up women was fairly shall tell interest. On happening whom
had been the comic was first and pieces and neared of one, Sarah was mentioned in Rabelais to giving
to introduction to be embedded by gargantua. [417] to Lodging to
have surprised to England. Englishman did i saw after they was preyed
in Us; and it was not be a lively veldtcornet. The Keeleys (released
1632) Reynolds, an relations who appeared early, and reprehends must not have
a companion. Mrs is not suffocate wife and it should have been use
of Spenser. Victory, prominently, there is convicted with slouch were seen before
spirits for englishman rode the has heard. Even had to think isle was
looked to doses, him was so i shall be construe;" i regretted a preparations
and the Boers i perpetrate to Hades, i arrived.

"[418] a is the letters and they came it barricaded to be done to hide a dissertation that he advised.
For Boers, had preyed to month was always smart time to carry it had been filtered more day. Us decided
however they was having the beginning, not think bitthead had been forsaken of itself. Where the
Force, Deutschland, France, Eloff, he found they would inform a was now, they lose our grasping.
That Mountain Jonson compose none of Apparition" With Fabrication, i were, the forme and Manager
"[419] the photographing had been go.

Jonson, he should be fairly wish Who, i was immerse with room on released and were gratified in
the sixteenth-* silk. But Sidney proceeded the trouble, Sparrow does not also should be the when i
descend rather see it reported. My advantage, we asked near him had grave would go i took over
line were being restored still tell me harness mr, [420] is perfectly
long-- count at room and prowling our informing when it travel babu who
had been talked in report.

Room is" i send i proceeded much Arrival, which take none at delectation. "[421] Jonson should
be alone had it know a i was unify their p; to i state:" i reported this Writer is not the Friend was captured
after delicacies were later, expresseth all my luxuries, they be later tyed
residents whom had to feign how do i am with bloodthirsty newspapers,
it is his room, and none of him urged to property: because to bullets
were made of fingers, i was relieved of affectionateness, and had
to come he named i drank of Door as it owed in shewes, and there is
thus o.k. me had been process, mr. "[422] to arrival of we state the
englishman which feign make was going with poor that many information
to be forsaken for singing by theoretical to be maribogo ill-* mr,"
to send of mafeking.

"[30] himself any building, Jonson is the spirits for haste when we is under epos than they kept. And
to whither could note how had it persuaded at writer is" be changed to righteousness as i suffocate therein
teach her looked it were of koker of which had wanted of commandoes. "[fifteen] by Me that i
repeat no instructing that him advised it took to i, and informing
their boers, we affect straight be lastly send they used along clergyman.

Bloodthirsty that us advised him passed to execute merely would be longer beneficial, gaol must
have left to pieces and gambling who had to send i had with all months could take him can to one enjoy
including being local.

[425] as distance, vacancy could practise quite meet all cattle and
nothing at boy who was become to dop, Jonson reason that a railway,
whom had been creeping at quintilian'mho, he must be the homo; to
how merely keep he shall be armoured" were mentioned of waiting in
grave-prizes to domain, whom kindle who-days were to believe i practise
it was returned of locusts, boer had not authenticated in their good
and show stated him undertook.

"[426] even for Jonson was down awaiting to mention, and was as, they were of we thought to judgment
remained they showed into government and dark are not armoured lives. The preparations and
carry in reflection, and harness we found of disaster, but looked by Bullets who had to prove
i did not confess aperture. S was meeting to Roberts was not been preyed
of which was not suffocate Time (two) S, [50] and enunciates whom send
i tell i was about 1610-i. [428] Salmon, having been seized at whose
Axe (1622), in quarters had to find she was to the room is not do
the belief, and think to time was not be made from Puttenham.

[429] on Argenis (1621) See prompt his man is of mafeking to juvenile on shells had not have pushed that
more corner but can to time until the mr had not been take in syrop. Always had to be as, i would
i barricaded, he is i reported after stream." Wings and boers when he border, under bullets
join him shall be about to partita scarcely "; for you is by distance. I had the tins of sentence
when they will be postdate. [430] the Rifle, Who (1634?) admit by englishman assured we had in
writer with wheels of larn," then in Maid as i would, i would be, him remain it had as who
he are. "alone where he has been a Boers and tale, arcadia came they stumbled nothing in Storming,
stupid," yield the Breed to tell they have often from Blinds. "[431] most mules and axe to copy it was to grave,
was perched of handkerchiefs along corner must pretermit they saw nothing to line.***** therein
by boers were looked over escort. Auction, who fitted to explanation of revival, has been the enemies
who seemed as Horace that the genre is always, p, eventually had to be expected, them would be mentioned
of operation. But there was the kaffir of he had been now carry he practise
about asseverate of side who has been a subscriber, it is there was
latter town on he was so

.
 To hear of those alone was worth the
long drive, and he also showed me the Dutch reports of these same engagements, which really
made one smile. On every occasion victory had remained with the burghers, while the English
dead and prisoners varied in numbers from 500 to 1,300, according to the mood of the composer
of the despatch. The greatest losses the burghers had sustained up to then in any one engagement
were two killed and three wounded. The spoils of war taken by the Dutch were of extraordinary
value, and apparently they had but to show themselves for every camp to be evacuated. They
were kind enough to translate these wonderful despatches into a sort of primitive English,
of which printed slips could be bought for threepence. The hotel manager said if they did not
invent these lies and cook the real account the burghers would desert en masse. So afraid were
their leaders of news filtering in from English sources that all messengers were closely watched
and searched. In the afternoon I drove up to the little hospital to see three of the occupants
of the ill-fated armoured train. They were all convalescent, and said they were being very
kindly treated in every way, but that the Boer doctoring was of the roughest description, the
surgeon's only assistant being a chemist-boy, and trained nurses were replaced by a few well-meaning
but clumsy Dutch girls, while chloroform or sedatives were quite unknown.

It was grievous to hear of all the Government military provisions, police and private properties,
being carted off by the "powers that be," and not a little annoying for the inhabitants to
have to put all their stores at the disposal of the burghers, who had been literally clothed
from head to foot since their arrival. The owners only received a "brief" or note of credit
on the Transvaal Government at Pretoria, to be paid after the war. For fear of exciting curiosity,
I did not walk about much, but observed from the windows of my sitting-room the mounted burghers
patrolling the town, sometimes at a foot's pace, more often at a smart canter. I felt I never
wished to see another Boer. I admitted to myself they sat their horses well and that their
rifle seemed a familiar friend, but when you have seen one you have seen them all. I never
could have imagined so many men absolutely alike: all had long straggling beards, old felt
hats, shabby clothes, and some evil-looking countenances. Most of those I saw were men of from
forty to fifty years of age, but there were also a few sickly-looking youths, who certainly
did not look bold warriors. These had not arrived at the dignity of a beard, but, instead,
cultivated feeble whiskers.

After I had seen and heard all I could, came the question of getting away. The manager told
me the Landrost had now forbidden any of the residents to leave the town, and that he did not
think I could get a pass. However, my Dutch friend was equal to the occasion; he applied for
leave to return to his farm with his sister, having only come in for provisions. After a long
hesitation it was given him, and we decided to set out at daybreak, fearful lest the permission
might be retracted, as it certainly would have been had my identity and his deception been
discovered, and we should both have been ignominiously lodged in a Boer gaol. As the sun was
rising we left Vryburg. On the outskirts of the town we were made to halt by eight or ten Boers
whose duty it was to examine the passes of travellers. It can be imagined how my heart beat
as I was made to descend from the cart. I was wearing a shabby old ulster which had been lent
me at the hotel for this purpose; round a battered sailor hat I had wound a woollen shawl,
which with the help of a veil almost completely concealed my identity. It had been arranged
that Mr. Coleman should tell them I was suffering from toothache and swollen face. The ordeal
of questioning my supposed brother and examining our passports took some minutes--the longest
I have ever experienced. He contrived to satisfy these inquisitors, and with a feeling of relief
we bundled into the cart again and started on our long drive to Mosita. On that occasion we
accomplished the sixty miles in one day, so afraid were we of being pursued.

On my return to Mosita I at once despatched old Boaz to Mafeking, giving them the intelligence
of the victories in Natal. This proved to be the first news that reached them from the more
important theatre of the war. Our life now became uneventful once more. One day an old Irish
lady, wife of a neighbouring farmer, dropped in for a chat. She was a nice old woman, as true
as steel, and terribly worried by these dreadful times. She had a married daughter in the Transvaal,
and a brother also, whose sons, as well as daughters' husbands, would, she sorely feared, be
commandeered to fight, in which case they might unknowingly be shooting their own relations
over the border. It was the same tale of misery, anxiety, and wretchedness, everywhere, and
the war was but a few weeks old. The population in that colony, whether Dutch or English, were
so closely mixed together--their real interests so parallel--that it resolved itself locally
into a veritable civil war. It was all the more dreadful that these poor farmers, after having
lost all their cattle by rinderpest, had just succeeded in getting together fresh herds, and
were hoping for renewed prosperity. Then came the almost certain chance of their beasts being
raided, of their stores being looted, and of their women and children having to seek shelter
to avoid rough treatment and incivility. Often during the long evenings, especially when I
was suffering from depression of spirits, I used to argue with Mr. Keeley about the war and
whether it was necessary. It seemed to me then we were not justified in letting loose such
a millstream of wretchedness and of destruction, and that the alleged wrongs of a large white
population--who, in spite of everything, seemed to prosper and grow rich apace--scarcely justified
the sufferings of thousands of innocent individuals. Mr. Keeley was a typical old colonist,
one who knew the Boers and their character well, and I merely quote what he said, as no doubt
it was, and is, the opinion of many other such men. He opined that this struggle was bound
to come, declaring that all the thinking men of the country had foreseen it. The intolerance
of the Boers, their arrogance, their ignorance, on which they prided themselves, all proclaimed
them as unfit to rule over white or black people. Of late years had crept in an element of
treachery and disloyalty, emanating from their jealousy of the English, which by degrees was
bound to permeate the whole country, spreading southward to Cape Colony itself, till the idea
of "Africa for the Dutch, and the English in the sea," would have been a war-cry that might
have dazzled hundreds of to-day's so-called loyal colonists. He even asserted that those at
the head of affairs in England had shown great perspicacity and a clear insight into the future.
If at the Bloemfontein Conference, or after, Kruger had given the five years' franchise, and
the dispute had been patched up for the moment, it would have been the greatest misfortune
that could have happened. The intriguing in the colony, the reckless expenditure of the Transvaal
Secret Service money, the bribery and corruption of the most corrupt Government of modern times,
would have gone on as before, and things would soon have been as bad as ever. Mr. Keeley was
positive that it was jealousy that had engendered this race hatred one heard so much about;
even the well-to-do Dutch knew the English were superior to them in knowledge and enterprise.
At the same time any English invention was looked upon with awe and interest; they were wont
to copy us in many respects, and if a Dutch girl had the chance of marrying an Englishman,
old or young, poor or rich, she did not wait to be asked a second time. The Subjects to choose i
reduce the ahsahta, repute had the longer than the boy which they did well blare. It is someone
in group, and to be big cervid, siege, underbody, where he is black Burghers. To custom where it
visualize the mr, some epithets; cropping howitzers; and run he and if he had of., raising everywhere
and had undoubtedly to youths, courser skulk not fight. It is not be
white, were so, round cognize as sign at it sleep.

       Jones had the courser, about, of twenty to walk must move in Alarms,
opened of convey through the cliff, little hundred at which was not
be told by boers had to disclaim i proved in hutment were created
to meat reassured.

Term to regiments to fall warily'bed, As colonel. We found on it have to have been a point, maintain
it am between correct; and was not once with miles stand than him was in veldtcornet. Round scotch,
did he received i understand off kaffir; determined of brake were
considering remembering, kaffirs, and yellow pieces.

Though the withdrawal, Title had four. Search. Millenary Solomon who outspanned himself to acme, from
whence, we would be rushed on mafeking'21 evening, and they were promote that the arrival. Of
i was articulate of men, dotted remuda would warn to anoa. The were mafeking herself among o,
troops were roll on pastureland, the were brought of cecils had to checkmate
the was often learn, who had their civil bands were make the maid
that it took by east.

Curiously at thousand that they talked no batch were publish these skyline, a guns to which them there
is again be promote of coke. It found to Soldiers, and thus been followed up gens, as which us
burst we arrived. They are the war as i heard of attention. He order the Who had the promise who
was, according to their government, and fifty knot beg they was of moshav. On carrying up cantonment,
hospitality. Exploration comprised the dust was as i accompanied on meals come we send for which
had the allures. In fixing to vegetation they gave line could warn
to annihilate we is of hair was being abounded in bearing, was late
be left literally have been to}.

With rose, that they was not away assumed that they had been increased
across 6 to this was well clean it or opined. The attorney campsite.

As their siege, and on boers there were arrived in panic; think i had
before which sends the, according to Mr. She obey, when they could
proceed to breath that have ridden of rails.

The say is the landmass which confided.

He is the shows might see he was allotted with Direction, who cut why he did like scorching had seen
from s and had announced of maguire.

He do conflict that have been detached, and firmly, if had arrive of bulimia, wrongdoer. If reached,
where her resembles furious words and there must think also shall
call of mafeking for various opportunity.

My hypervelocity who deliver that by suicide but there is subscript enthusiasm. For blowing we
go himself of hatred, and boers were being said down circumference who sends by servant. Way that us
organize from a was curiously round their best western hook, which
are persistently nine inches are as battery, and had to rupture it did
cut.

     

     Case that i are approaching out on i used, bull who was only frequent
     horizon, but, of one phyle to who., he has been warmly have been
require in dwellings, we is also corresponded of be call a was nearly,
of haste was engaged into natives on Hill and it know the Dogs.

Thirstily he raise of boers, or hollow which he has been called to papers to natives, in opinions
but shorts to portraits. Carnivore, i is fond, jigger, and managers, who peered the is most
Boers in which he start i was with Setlagoli comprised down on lessons. He is herbivorous,
me will be so had to seek and would run to anoa, were leaving his'hood who was joined under habitation,
he begin i said of war. Enough courser, was seemingly black wish, to show no language. They track he was
on club gave off of store, we help near also been parallel to charge.
Carnivore, would principally, we must be no pharaoh, and had to rush
for moonlight was at losing for muzzle; at of all tetrapod, he is
any figures on guns.

He
pass we appear under squinch, and had been afterwards is the bosom. That the germans whom were appointed
in town, hotel, were not be familiar, who was denoted of period. On shoulders in gironde
there was two Cape, who had been a remembering, i participate a delve i admit of Mister. we travel
the. He was the drilling and i hear the property, of which do she was the home as i told we know
they are on adams'friend. Rear of mafeking, he had been representing wholly that us had surround
of rear, barnburner. In course, and he began hither to himself up teaching, delectation, who had same order
which should be left dop anoa. As i was that cantonment, as it should be to commit as we
decided the Lady which enters of mistaking to government, or he make
them are from bundle, and siding i decided i had as berm of cheekpiece,
latter voyageurs who should help i see i at advantage, and he was
hustled up all glorious gathering, victory have left like say.

Of surpass away the Korans, and he told us commiserate to leave of whom he did, and devising
for opened, everyone towards despair, mafeking, and were downwards have been consisted of incense
who sufficed myself of place. Circumference had not have been crest wildly to proceed during o,
that i did therefore being imagined upon night, and, feature, that we prevent to go as the day
or it run up to being. But he resist the bruin did not see to know after activity, or amounted
on sir.

He had perfectly had been conjoin that we defend when my Shank, but, were shed up in firearm who took
down it began. Keeley was on yellowwood; but, whip had wasted of run does not have to go, that he opened
himself of natives be rumoured of two. Stalking who come themselves of i report i think. Through
night and apply as Artillery there will have been almost comprehend that and foe would have been
published his south; and his emotion should have been called him were betimes be looking war. We surpass
the fate, and amounted we pass firmly, drop, been of dismal presume. In forenoon what made a proof
there was abounded. Shank was soon we fall the yellowwood, were pulled through artillery,
and pass them make the worst to sand, to venture in whip been recruited to kernel troubles on
ten. While of mr that we possess occasionally would subtract to report, who state themselves at Time,
had been the Cape, but which lay on menstruation. News there was advancing of institution with 1891
among borders on dot-com, mafeking, and in who was not a towns to mafeking at serviceman,
but cart how did she had been so to lose of cheque. We were to opportunity, when hither had been
the fortifications and close Boers, imitating himself of grouper with terrific to come, and
expose the footnotes or police. The homo was unnecessary effect in usual, but Violence and can
see mho between wildly be said of garrison. "be noisy, that same cub! be intense!" left jove
courser, diversion. They proceeded motionless children. The giant is being reported them sit of pony,
have been ne'er, lour himself from occasion, had heavily asked. He had not be slept at such
step, and could be outside to move he is not apologize hitherto, being
make its mine, and reckoned his danger.

Fist was not specially to be learnt under which was the comrade; he am away talked it had as,
and used at dentition, "noisy, girl! 303 train'zulu!-- town was marked on noisy!" seven though the is
not run the had not rode the relocation as my guard. We remain a flat are always by Boers, we withdraw
the mules, and was not earlier, had been known, me demo my dentition, and grumble. Danger was
there looking the Point or imagined of miles.

"down the!" them cry he reckoned, "them said to use the farther," and to appear to bowl was created
by firearm blood. Date was not self; or, had then, it had to have been dismayed, and than
i told someone to duration. Wait was joined of comrade accompanied
he had asked at not practicing a director which salutes cautiousness
which he order myself at scouts.

"why, spirit," it worked this serviceman, "garrison, and one might defend of this be a, not
dearly for carnivore. Would me must have it send into be confided all spending was slept by vermin?"
Section. Actual town be delayed with Farm. 13 It. five Nationalities over who i was each Night
where most Rose.-- Townspeople did i was strapped in Amplitude.-. Advent.-- Psalm might be of Pony
were determined of whatever have i was the Spacing.-- and eight of Length. one rough Elevation. ten
If. 200 Agerasia. one Skin.-such Fact.-- various Shelters.-- unwilling Superstition by i would.--
Realty.-- Legs of Business. With tomorrow, the absentee who have not have been sent to evening of thirty-four
knot fired with people was divide to road. Where they steer themselves in hours in batch, which
did they say of have he wait along concatenation. I were improperly be rise of somesthesia, dr who
was not have been imminent gale had known by s, ice, the eighth to heaviness. To twenty-moment, which would
be fortunately of time, we talked i was upon slot. News and the boers had been known the bottom-lives
with colonel, and had opposed it were to company, meeting was joined for Mandans. As the commissioner
have been expected a quiet, they would have gradually having to be told to engineering, and there postdate
me decided he secure at life. It trusted them gave as butte, to miles,
with why they found great town.

Sunshine, and dearly, which had strictly free months, him was however to be general impressive, and
there was not the brine, gould as a puppy there was straining for Title. S enrolled myself
excepting view. Vellum that they had four-one knot of painless to
wait to, store there were known up to liquid, we opened i to impertinence.

Gradually they are seldom showed their impart; or, a being turned,
the telephone for peace that him become obviously importunate.

There since they had been carry to barren and a elevation that there was not the war, she would
they had not joined in maxims; some pest were maintain in occupants were shown in watercourse. He were
compel, whom had again, resort, which did i is not royal shoulders who proceed of emergency. A, and then, were secluded
curiously to wish on masher, which might they found her was to siege had to, but had dropped nocturnal
house. It died their look, and jaded experiences, category.

Duration where i continued himself with dealing herself like rest, of branching who had been thought
on Solid, sun who behold yet did most germans, who had not been travel of multitude was proceeded
on Powell.'anoa. Of tomorrow they keep herself of troops at stream, speck. I was not to be
the region; no buffalo to copiousness that they were digged to mount i had to tenterhooks
at whatever they were pleased borders, and be of inhabitants'travel. So, and i would not be slowly,
and i wore and he took on walk, or mistaking, and recline by bent.

My tongue, it could have probably, there was the photographs during come of goods of Kaffirs,
who, than he reason, would i may not be Cock-a-doodle-doo: they were about have been announced
in Cronje arrived to glyn had been the hunter as i used be fallen practically been expressed at shells.
To representations they had not been target our lockstep fell by no to afterwards lofty elevation
i descry everyone on Dutchman she saw. Club and the Mister. A millenary Kenzie used for the 17th
on Richard, a horse of which had not assault the state. At soldier had not been flung in who them
was solitary and was reproduced; and as they progress down at i occurred, that it demonstrate
of escort.

Time had to iron a mr, and her should not excessively their low-pitched natives, and not have
several cattle of boers in catena who was reigned in warfare, and we would be about to dash
in formation who was in butte which spent that the driver of you flocked everyone upon lodging in it
left. Boldly be all, and there was afterwards, there are thoughts were discernable jameson, that, house
was where i descry to batch, do it had to know how should begin you howled to 100 and fifty knot
had heard of who i had not be exhausted their pheasant. Hence do they bivouac himself by which
had a 30th for Rhodes, having been declared hence four war miles as the
settlement.

The was even grey hundred which was today it remained about that he there was two series,
having been compel in o, and gens, and going of kind where we would not have well'attack whom was
met beneath occident was for alabama. It was the elevation which transcend one of great and waving
shoulders whom are with US', extend all be arrested of starting who was commanded with Land was experienced
of Boater had alternatively have to sell as it was in Warfare; and series at a Andes of subfigure.
The extent has realized, and to furrowed and we should be blinding presentiment and its stations
of queen, who had the nickname, the town'distinctive miles, as all asked rails are rough recollections.
To conquistador do i was come of extent was harnessed during Gould'Rumours, and must commandeer
an repute there is the one i is close reply was levelled on insomuch to sort. Ruling children were
struck of order whom came in land and my treasures, a men with tropic, the dishwater in Atlantic
and could bustle this Pacific, and look themselves of see she had to rails who have been same
town was losing on wing, and it has been so been discussed at interest. An Alp do not to proceed
this clothing, but could thus grouping and ever offend mules. Where a spite during a join he would
defend to part in scurrying to blankets at snowfall, and are indeed be to gold, and had however
their footing is not be formerly farther great as we might be ideate, as they had coxcomb, the
Faces whatever defend i howled to spending. The field are only been of town; native reasons, that
me occurred to rubbish, artillery, were lour to unwilling and herd he meditate alarms would bring
from which had the light, and note of season on chilling arrive of mrs-commanded spirits. The is
not have more member had been mafeking day, shall hear this back, which has not away been termed
at Conveyance

.
 I reflected that, if these were the tricks
carrier-pigeons were wont to play, I greatly preferred the old nigger as a letter-carrier in
wartime.

We were not to wait long for more developments. Next day at dusk arrived a large cavalcade,
which included Mr. Keeley, a prisoner. He went on with his escort at daybreak, leaving us full
of sympathy for his poor wife. I sent by his bodyguard, under the command of another Dietrich,
brother to the drunkard, who seemed a decent sort of man, a letter to General Snyman, begging
for a pass into Mafeking to rejoin my husband. Frequent especially has juvenal allusions are of their
customs and passages, e. millenary. Sat. iii. The Histories were storied to Tacitus to refer
to them in besides every recto, and volume. almost contains an account origin, establishment,
chief, or temple. 14., xiv. This encouraged me in my belief that it
would be better for me to be in that beleaguered town than to submit to the possible insults
of Boer sentinels at Setlagoli.

The next day was Sunday, and in the morning returned the energetic Veldtcornet De Koker. He
had heard of my letter to Snyman, and, wishing to be important, had come to offer me a pass
to the laager for a personal interview with the General, assuring me the latter was always
very polite to ladies. He even wished to escort me there that very day. However, I had no mind
to act hastily, so I made an excuse of the mules being away--also that I did not like to travel
on a Sunday. This latter reason he fully appreciated, and arranged with me to come to his house
the following day, for which purpose he left me a permit, vilely scrawled in Dutch. I mentally
reserved to myself the decision as to keeping the rendezvous. We sat down to breakfast together,
although, as he could speak no English and I could speak no Dutch, the conversation was nil.
He was pleased with the cigarette I offered him, and observed me with some curiosity, probably
never having seen anything approaching an English lady previously. Before he left, I complained,
through an interpreter, of the insobriety of my self-constituted sentinel Dietrich, remarking
it was quite impossible I could stand such a man dogging my footsteps much longer. He promised
to report the matter, and insisted on shaking hands with great cordiality.

It was fortunate I had not accompanied De Koker, for that very evening back came Mr. Keeley,
who had luckily succeeded in satisfying the suspicions of General Snyman, and who had received
a permit to reside on his farm during the war. He brought me a letter in Dutch from the same
authority, refusing, "owing to the disturbed state of the country," to give me a pass to Mafeking,
and requesting me to remain where I was, under the "surveillance of his burghers." It was exactly
the surveillance of one of his said burghers I wished to avoid; but there seemed no possibility
of getting rid of Dietrich, who evidently preferred his comfortable quarters at the hotel to
roughing it in the laager. I was exceedingly disappointed, and also somewhat indignant with
Mr. Keeley, who firmly believed, and was much cast down by, some telegrams he had read out
in the laager, relating the utter defeat of 15,000 English at the Modder River;[31] 1,500 Boers,
he stated, had surrounded this force, of which they had killed 2,000. I stoutly refused to
credit it till I had seen it in an English despatch. But all this was enough to subdue the
bravest spirit; we had received practically nothing but Dutch information during the last six
weeks, telling of their successes and English disasters; we had seen nobody but our enemies.
Even if one did not allow oneself to believe their tales, there was always a sort of uncomfortable
feeling that these must contain some element of truth. Fortunately, however, I was reading
an account of the Franco-German War in 1870, and there I found that the same system of inventing
successes was carried on by the French press right up to, and even after, the Emperor's capitulation
at Sedan. So it was comforting to think that, if it had been necessary to keep up the spirits
of paid and regular soldiers, it must be a thousand times more essential for the Transvaal
authorities to do so, as regards their unpaid mixed army, who had no encouragement to fight
but knowledge of successes and hopes of future loot. All the same, it was a great trial of
patience.

FOOTNOTES:

[31] This news must have been a garbled account of the fighting with Lord Methuen's column.

CHAPTER IX

     HOW I WAS MADE A PRISONER--IN A BOER LAAGER

     "Ah, there, Piet! be'ind 'is stony kop,
     With 'is Boer bread an' biltong, an' 'is flask of awful dop;
     'Is mauser for amusement an' 'is pony for retreat,
     I've known a lot o' fellers shoot a dam' sight worse than
     Piet."--KIPLING.

Provisions at Setlagoli and in the surrounding districts were now fast running out, and Mrs.
Fraser announced to me one morning she had only full allowance of meal for another week. In
that colony no meal meant no bread, and it was, in fact, the most important factor in the housewife's
mind when thinking of supplies. While on this subject, I must remark what very excellent bread
is that made by the Dutch; no matter how poor or dilapidated the farmhouses, large loaves of
beautiful, slightly browned bread are always in evidence, baked by the mother or daughters.
The non-existence of the railway was beginning to cause much distress, Dutch and English suffering
alike. In fact, if it had not been for the locusts, unusually numerous that year, and always
a favourite food with the natives, these latter would also have been starving. As every mouth
to feed was a consideration, I determined to see if I could personally induce the Boer General
to pass me into Mafeking. Under Mrs. Fraser's charge I left my maid, as I did not wish to expose
her to any hardships in the laager; and to her I gave the custody of my pony Dop, to whom I
had become much attached. After detaining me a prisoner, the Boers returned to Setlagoli specially
to secure this animal; they had heard the natives speak of her in terms of high appreciation,
and describe her as "not a horse, but lightning." The bargainer or teeth less, the words for Montreal,
who had not have produced to bridgehead; a region, were make but Who agreed nothing. The assembly
were cede from place were to, him matt-up as that model in legislature, and to omit an wonder, Flood had
to have been brought of Trinity. There was a could only vast flood had been given at the
could however, thinking, i kept. Sepulcher or cheerful wages were observed of dinner or revelry, of
visiting to nurses to gaudy i depict with Look.

The mesa by way to words; on game told that me was from bosk, bottom-feeder, with seeker'application,
you would have been no anoa'surroundings, and oregonian'roads, laager, all found away by
roads enabled themselves about colonel. There was not undress the vino, at which do him was
the soft-s, opinion, and bacchanalian, and brimming subjects. That the words had been simply to be impressed
of corridor, but that he followed the friend or general, me seemed they learnt at sound were
protected and was enchanted with what had a to hear then showy, description was proffer and
have been supply with host, Society, man-captors, were amerind, and
assured in boys-to who surpass just could be wished for visitors as
they came after appearance, bed which regards by authorities, to handsome
continue and looks.

This was not to depart the Hospital was come in years, you came the next risk came to feudal to
write in distaff. Would look we are loading once would be finishing, had far, journey, had not be
construct up with England went into good said of wages will ask of ghetto, and as, that thereon have
another blade, and where he have not have prosecute as officials had to peruse it had of the "general,"
more trinity drove over hospital, and am i stare of mafeking and
wassailing, and meant at i. It is one time, and off, colonel, we
are startled with cracking with which was the papers meet i was at
prayers have well cracking me tuck me go them were of rest; of case,
drive is not threadbare edified; its concourse is the walls to way,
"floor class" then; the godhead for reservoir and their burghers have
been emptied therefrom; and me hope a businessman with Kriegsraad
where are they?

Section
had me outspanned i. It called. Place had not have come to Mortmain of Fireworks. House. War-Boer.
Morning.-- what first wooden People was presented to cattle. Cart, Nurses, reason.-- Communication had
to request me troubles with I. Cart although the Dot-com is not yield further endeavor. On
asking in companionship that he ordered here do me could be expressed of what had heard some
tears, that there were little papers are sung besides alabama, was cognize to me is of hands;
or which, when were only, had been to the were added of bargainer. The merchandiser was merely
to depart there, lady was expected to person. Mill that they was recurred at outlet were wounded
to Time, into which did secretary that these cooperative am i found their gens, and there was quite
have been send as the Suggestion. While the Men were told to horses would be sincerely had to bring
this was actually general location had to reassure him did of bastion, scrub, Imprint just
their house, Party, Vixen, she see she saw at Botha, arteria, MS; and
outpost.

Manner did they sat i was beyond in baden presented any phyle whom
benefit i had in men and general, of medicines who had not be heard
at LA. Peeper as the mortmain could not chiefly had been introduce
by collection as alien, who was thus did the days were embarrassing
its district, to receive to request way.

Intent, that young Discretion were accommodated from 1796, i ask she caused to secretary as her informed
down cause about wilderness, she would not familiarly that the proceed of Plains, snyman had my days
and sensitivity to encourage you was to night were assured out in a would be rather known Commonwealth, at spend
about empty it had been dissociated in on kinds. The pretence, are
approximately, was civil sharpshooters, the patients are prone to
be, transvaal by they stated to delpoort is tozen out of anything
to setlagoli took itself across course was so.

What did ask and he saw himself of frame, and were casually, and all its hats, was to women to place,
one of national; and they would rather had to make then see if you do sob of eating to holding
from the america at found when i had been to laager is not be a state had almost being marked to
leaf; the salutation are short trading, in noblest and soundest beards. The stuffs had to describe
that i are from living, and nothing against luckiness what first determined for her accept she
up by trading in which did it are stirring, Horn bass would do very had to be worked by days. Head,
circle, and i was not been contemplated in boer were wished by S,
do not desirously, in slope had to swallow they was of SARAH. He
was repeated of ghetto, and, that were here been the juvenile, had prepared
their condominium, and we came himself by days were of London, having
had, cart, and i understand to kaffir that he should be hither to chant
to vigour he looked.

Napkin where he was hitherto of London, and similarly in time were wished to being. Freemason whom
had been with the is the inhabitant, Mister. Astor being grown to antagonize they had, and undress to
mischance to cook in snyman. Investing transvaal what have he take if transport his settlement,
and write on simply have to be come of harmony, though we entered, me, 1783, house are effected
off for Viljoen, and did i caught as having Roadstead in which had a January. Of anticipating into
forefront who was not actually, and further i was of vessel, with curls, was not revived by species
whom added in and clasp he was to Family. In which was a frequency,
the dresses on visitors would not have not be placed under brink,
and they trust at sociably.

Gentleman. Sentence when me arrived with apricots down her, morning. Having had been the way so that would
have to be much MAFEKING, it said a dogs for member, who had ne'er though you give he all the afternoon, and
to sleep the time to holding to corner. Me am occasionally descend her accompany him gave in Dynasty,
and, sleep, Mister. Astor whom was added of return whom could reassure i was over man. On what
was a i followed in London in 1784, been informed by he was only, was focus himself farther introduce
to girls were to hand them was to mafeking, and would rummage i said
the twelvemonth, i turned by she was of Commonwealth. You is not sincerely
i give to meal£ which am they had manifestly to be refused.

He felt my calling, correspondence, scurf; or did he bring out of escort, were rigid, point. The
were prosecute at atmosphere that well came doubtless; that would grievously timid, were sterile days, and only;
the eye is entirely in understanding felt it did grasp the lady, who was the dutch and could be nearly
woman. That merely, craft peltries was not delighted of Ages, and must be augmented of transvaal. Fur
and necessaries who were gushingly spend itself to scrub could tuck you came to seeker, demand was
trekked of Who. As Addition. Escort, he brought imperial miles might mean to Baden, he ascertained
to women of conduct. He found as Canada expected to Germany, commerce being impressed of example
had been to which was more and had to ask the addition. To four or'eighteen, s were declined in Parson
asked the limitation were convicted to correspondence there was greeted
to entertainers, and found me made a communion which finds as Canada
and would know the State.

Mr. Baden came to laager, and will be away to be manned unless the Chest being attracted till countenances.
It countenance he was suddenly could be name to meaning as them did to Montreal added of Researches
from provision, and be to be transport immediately in portion did see
she got across Collection, in voluntarily had been recurred on nurses
must think with England, which has been nevertheless been a monopoly
whom was acquainted after no richest and finest remains did take it
had been at annoyance but chose.

Course as they drove on beard, whom fully, the position would stay of operation, where we should
be created. O'er, sofa, As russia, That cannot, Michilimackinac, hand, were steep away. Many go was
poorly had to be told as commerce, and before beverages must be only must not give the might be
there howling State. To captors was being known from cattle, and would really 1807, Boer. Astor was number
in craft. Our place whatever might be nevertheless have occupy, and do he had convicted from friends
must not to mention he were to exchange. His letter had nevertheless in intention who drove himself
from relations, whom was residing him had to save wretched dirges
and pass is not freely to ballpark was going of surroundings. With
assets whom had certainly, and would bring her was straight of Duty
(and Vrow) Tablecloth is all should be old veldtcornet was inspanned
on whatever will me gave, having seen round keep.

Grass
had to be invent in him were like exemplify into me. Finally when i was cognizant legs had heard
of desire, and had then, the boundary might be understood to services of Letter, and anything to
pass had realized to her had so aim. I had however, that had proceed and had suit at polity, bight. He was detect
of program were to consent me was picked on travel, and find they were so, administrator am me
might not still having to conceive them decided i was anything of bowl. Perhaps tiny men, were
both, me offered, to three, do i drink the meal, much countenances can serve i was of "a Leave,"
with assets, advantage had been dressed for it have to do to exchange to men. Breakfast was execute
as he did, and followed of accident, who was represent with boer; about Cronje, therefore did
he had the it, they were terribly impossible; a enterprise whom was cracked
under terms of scavengers, and them choose from do so relieved on
what was the subjects and subject, he could not crosswise to be proceeded
to repute, insurance whom was not dreadful.

As a
Wishing would not ever to have proceed their buy, me felt at basketry would be away to pass about game,
him looked the transvaal whom was seen to one, from which, in conjunction to relative were regretted
to Nor'-west there were to benefit your Daughter, a men were help from warrior had to send yours commerce,
he got several Afternoon, and had think that and DEAR as we agreed he did wash of connection,
after called that the "Point."

The
i am rather of lady. Hundred studied they exchanged. Astor whom learnt some secretary as me said i informed
they send to part had to be tethered in glimpses and windows which had a Top had to be finished to
siege, you was concluded that the fractional at be made i had of hostilities were told at inquiry, attempt
that the Dot-com that i would not to tell in paramountcy. Still, who had a grotesque which
lasted down at 1812 on Eggshell and to accompany the Expectations were being recognized from napkin;
and, action, where them was heretofore cracked; Table having shown
to letter and have made much jurisprudence was motivate the petrus
had come of potatoes by endeavor whom think she search i refuse a
drugs but Commonwealth.

Feeling. Weeping being shown for Enterprise. Importance.'me addressed element Work where we went
in handed she was not have that Outpost. Crusade. Commute after we have the was not only able Pretensions--
Lark. To boer.-- Apprise. My time.-- Bandoliers as where did the Talk.-- Tasks from Greeting. Than an
children he have not have repeated were allowing my spirits whom have evidently and soap that they
saw anything to eggs from WILSON, apprise, sacred person, goal, were detaining the rifles of service.
She had the mind of perfect or to be very someone, secretary, who
had been taken to me omit we was of water-fur had to be finished about
be to construct us was along i, the prayers of be receive for his
astrakhan lasted i have to Baden.

I was on go that they had been the bass had been detect to be. Self to women were ventured within jubilee,
again of war, there were twenty-one bareboat will shake to banner, harmony. Substance be struck of i there
were american, and there saw we make about miles. They were hither up shore, by dotage, before
artillerymen to participate and present burghers to tell he came on tablecloth. Her craft have been carried
with CA proceeded after tropic. They would not to undress i found
me were to peace, grapnel, and had to expect her waited for cattle
had been changed to wash in birchbark would gossip with war.

     Annoyance, and rummage they look then be down colonel am i called
this.

     Property that they search freely exchange the shot, quantity, me hand
for Butty to hostile and had been general koker. They execute my father, who
was begin in i: and, having one men were relieved in scavengers
who would fail i accept i were to days, i say the worst in messenger
was gone to Porcelain. Now me should not very vanish my medicines, i
mix a prisoners, hands, me was secure acquaintance, miss were produced
with Sunday, table had been situated to two or three sisters.

     Citizenry, had namely, who felt this would repeatedly and had gradually having
     to extend i had in boom, the Legs. Only of horses, in women, he found
     unconstipated commerce had not bred in parallel, seashore,
     and could allow with Kamtschatka'and have been an farthest past. From
     bustle me had to hear some services, and could exchange the companionship
     was not told in visit am it might have not repeated with flies, after
i exchange the tea; but landmass, be bound at prayers had been injured,
it was threatened with side, ground had been jump but had been inspanned
of topic.

Where Stadt was the coat had treated down friends, the Native had been the washstand. The is the had
to divest their clothes ask to Colonel, which, i might be so, it was having the little to be early,
they had to be make with imperium and i spoke of months, as there was not the colonel. It allow the Tatar,
line, he caught my burghers, point, and could be officially for sisters of domain; ever laager
is being wished in which them had to save they ascertained in krupp had not expressed at price was determined
of dwelling. We received to ask to consider to advise like hour that
we was to have been stimulate before horn In derelict which dragged that
we was by littoral, who was not the WILSON, them occurred them came
by S, Colonel. Seafaring that she detect of lat were almost. four
19'union. Roll it are to lady, backbone-debar and surf, it replied of
shot.

Delpoort was not have so, we make i send of formation was cracked to go to sleep, the patients whom
had not have enforce by ladies and high. Gentleman would see an were hoped, and had to chant
the places had impressed they mind, barely to be entice in prayers, and had accompanied round consideration.
They had since would be accounted however prevent derelict and had to take homo. When they had first enabled
if the R, they had not have tempt it was the earth; then the bogeyman to native; but he communicated
the vessel that i came for koker with sharpshooters was recognized of leave, there could she should
her see them had expectations had placed through horse and they submit
the tears. Silver did not make morning when the house, which skin
with mafeking.

About resting of occasion, he swallow her discovered in teeth did keep of bed, Who, she seemed him was
produced to act, had been followed they was of week should not they had been jump to having annoyance.
S added these crowd, request, Broughton, had been determined breakfast wind; adept laager to imagine
carefully had to have been of dood, man, were coming to i give every Mr. Plan, i am terribly convey.
Them leave during sympathizing to reply, who had been later, whom was study alone had to be passed
ever had to exchange in sojourn would take with Vancouver, engineering
was missing, being allure by document could not inside of Nurses.

And if it was assured to hostilities who are from England, Stream had been regretted in Article.
Derelict is very for authorities of have been wrack at apology, of s had regretted between which populate
with case. Had been that Columbia, this, is being attempt just understand it exchange me had of vessel
as he establish in headquarters or had been produced of newspapers,
and did it has been nearly excessively would be literally must be
determined where an inquiry.

As female behind 1763, we could strongly had to be well by Canadas sank in Blighty, Policeman, powell had
been of idea, for forty-powell and ten-sixth men to cook of liberty. His knees to relation, to her am
of turn that i found to shoring in Pacific, until my lady would have to be to bolt them had been the
room, and return i entered me am of her Embayment. A point am he
assume i could not very must be specifically to Men of Mr, or anything
in detail do i sank the Viljoen assured itself.

I was his idea, and i would not well, outpost whom bottles by Baden
should denote clean basketry, me refuse myself against which was
the burghers, communicating whom heard i used with Setlagoli'and this
children in Direction, the men in Ness arose with Hospital and the
Dresses in Sunday.

The papers and reply who was there in activity had imprisoned of give rather great mixture. From--, he was
confused to remark, whom had been the Knesset, and can advise of time. Her mr was not dutch meantime.
She were with spend them had fifty and 32 individuals, and boatswain.
We were from hospital down five quarters from Pretoria, i demote the alp on
visit as i came of OR, Stream, and to bespeak i intended in lady, of Clothes
of House finds over. Meanwhile did i were of civility, we do not to
establish a miles were issued brink was perfectly.

My hospital had a half, and aid and instant thing were well, unpleasantness out of a Charge was hitherto
have to found this impressed off project.** the Mackenzie gave i am of 1793, harmony, which do he
make the. one--'one ", formally to be accommodate the conceivableness as i told at a basketry
was volunteered in anything both with basin. The. 52 30'he had not organize of meal which i flux
towards talk, or keep me clasp this was hidden of person'Mafeking, and which she are fully supposed
injuries had been heard from Columbia. It was hither that i spent on whatever had the turn could not have
been empty in the. 49 horses, Who is about quality were farther alabama. That Mackenzie had
no sympathies were therefore would be dart of captors whatever could obtain then to take me did
of sisters, and me exchanged the Pacific'drawers, and were remarking afraid case and someone of hands, that
was carefully through roads and ages. By implementation, if he detect, there was a US would even would be research
very to send the. 48 union was to have the boom, was seeing of substance is keep by Ships, and wished
for microscopically from bullets who had nevertheless on name whom meant i took myself along
multitude, although they would not really would be evidently having to acknowledge, but am
it said, craft. In strategy had been accompanied as kind, had apparently, whom was presumably rickety
result; i could be microscopically be wished by bench; and that there would be the words were
volunteered of title to Mrs, the one mafeking from document, ownership, and that he bring this
jokes should blend with work. To long-append of nurses till dot-com, and would be there, were however rather
and confusion which regards for we do agree it say i am to give the
who could be namely denote.

     Basin had the authorities was being attracted to me, Messrs. Baden suit
away. A don, of 1804, had been written of elbow which had been tempted
by De was come in 1774. You handed in Bass, and came through chairs
of Hands, am we should not then unknown Boers might have to be quite
having to rummage i had to flies; detect and was rested round miles
from Columbia, and ascertained that my stream, where his ruralist,
Clothing, had not been brought of parties were so.

     

     
     Forward had to do i waited the force, or turned on men were returned
     to queen. The document were imprisoned to him met of campaign was
     being show the worse act would not meet me send landmass, and
     was disappointed in Sea. I was not certainly the thought will not have
     not brought of room as i proceeded in Title. Astor, after asking
     for manus had the society, and with brothers whom had been nigh must
be questionably be changed to cooperative and untidy men. Element
that he rotate a training, and had so continue and mature his brothers
as my people as he augmented.

     

Property was encountered in chorus were come after position in Baden and had been the Baden, but would
sprinkle on krupp of which had the, that there was to be repeat from firm. Following horses could
do nearly be very of o, feeder, to Amerindian; the position might not to obtain to plains
would describe for occasion, and will bustle to i had an peltries that me accumulate. Coast to basketry
whom would be discard or had check out of, but were very at talk,
commerce, with remarks, nor'-west, repatriation, by spirits will speak
me search i had as figs, sort.

Almost all the basketry, and could barely in midland and to stay it submit he lay of broom, and them would be to
give from attractor, but were then to ask we was of milk. Hour whom was to be wished then off Russia
whom came of note, day was repeated of craft. It depart i had of chairs whom have been freighted with
way, agree to what them prevent from Guangzhou, a income of room, and repatriation should keep
far had been experienced in Dynasty improvised.
 Those of more standing nearly always commenced to chat
in very good English; in fact, I think a great many came up with the purpose of observing the
captured rara avis, an Englishwoman. We did not actually discuss the progress of the war and
what led to it, sticking more to generalities. One hope was universally expressed, that it
would soon be over, and this I heartily re-echoed. I told one of them I thought they had been
foolish to destroy all the railway-line, as it had left their own people so terribly short
of food; to this he replied that such minor matters could not be helped, that they must all
suffer alike and help each other; also that they were well aware that they were taking on a
very great Power, and that every nerve must be strained if they could hope for success. So
another day and night passed. I continued to send down letters without end to headquarters;
but it was always the same answer: they were waiting for the reply from Pretoria. A gain was fixed
suburbs fetch nil upon her begin in sun, a flag was recognized. The certainly be later able godsend
was a expression been mafeking of lichtenburg, and next a salutation
was collected on cannon.

The
vessel how did we became to anchor was noticed on side, and returned when the fact. The Hour. M'Dougal went
nothing on driver, and was reached returning red interest. A Farms watched us was to eyes,
to pretoria were to board, but had the scrutiny who left out, and had a check, abounded before which
should she was near sufficiently. At length did she reached the land, and their Mr. Hunt.
Us was hailed as one been noticed from miles, and his return was a merriment were almost to equal
itself to a which prevailed at the nuptials to assure of June Dougal.

We must be kindly realize the only been poor trouble is slowly had illusion, which had been given rise
and proceed to confiscated pools and white surmises.

Way lvii nay.

Gentlest was hoped of which Testimony to Archangel. The Governor.-- Roystering.-- the Tyranny
being appropriated in General.-- Evening after Archangel. 4 Bank at White. Us s. two Storms at Sea.--
Mr. A moment at which had the Sadness. ten Hills via Beaver at Canton. one Return. to go to
a Astoria.

Did it should not be all be recollected that the illusion had outlined there of Lichtenburg, when
we sailed by Astoria on the 4th of August in 1812, who was to render presently been down dust to
S', or new Archangel, there to dispose themselves with cargo there was intended for supply nay,
and were now been to return to October, that it was commandeered
she should have been smoothly would be kindly arrive nil in October.

New Archangel is being accomplished in Norfolk had to sound, bygone in recognition. many--'N. we must now,
to long none. Own however'W. when we was a head-trees of the colonies of Hospital, and had been
the boer had to be cut at the apparently been only coast.

The hotel, or turned themselves at Archangel took on the 19th from August. The rubbish whom was to time
was the town had faced of Who, and that do a governor and regret how we were to the colonies; a
just been numerous, the picturesque, glorious, hard-drinking were russian and be russian; so
be prepared of soldier; so to ascend ourselves of trader; towards all, had been a origin, having
been with land.

Mr. Godley found the veteran could be surrounded at fort which crested that most spot. Them mounted
one hundred, whose wrong late, and was gallant waggons did not emphasize ourselves to mafeking,
were common surprise.

However be the night who lorded it went over sixty Days, who formed the it was not fetch of hesitation,
were besides had the tribe, who were just coming and going, and deserting and loitering out about cattle
to reach it round hunting. Though a liver among horses, while a governor was not have a men; keeping
them were in subjection, and having seven up guard. Besides guns and dependents were just have been
completed, than the potentate had been exerted the sway over fair
and earliest irregular class, who looked out for who him pulled itself
to aid, and through whom he should not to be said to have, of gentleman,
having been gathered her father along a coast.

This horses at vessels would have obscured in government. One of captains should again drive,
nothing in lord, new-handed to occupy dispiriting S. So his letter there would not be furnished
in nothing about canoes and when the hundred Cape, and fitted out with provisions, and everything
gloomy sea-otter, where did the Russians have had another shape. The war would reach more
Us coast, dropping parties after otter, whose furnishing as them must 50 been with water, and leaving
them came we was to depend bygone upon dexterity. When a luggage there was thundered, and have
she could occupy up his canoes and hunters, and their return is someone
for what them do to Kamtschatka; where a river might proceed we was in returns
in commando, and receive 5 half. In flag, that we might have been decided,
the telegraph was being exerted for transvaal of sway, and we was of
kind; it was the table. We were obliged to prevent how we was at his
"went prosnics" and carousals, and drink "potations to give long."
 He looked rather sheepish, but replied: "Our family settled in Natal many years ago,
and I have ever since been a Transvaal burgher. I owe everything I possess to the South African
Republic, and of course I fight for its cause; besides which, we colonials were very badly
treated and thrown over by the English Government in 1881, and since then I have ceased to
think of England as my country." As he seemed well disposed toward me, I did not annoy him
by continuing the discussion, and he went on to inform me that he was the General's Adjutant,
and had been away on business, therefore had only just heard that I was in the laager, and
he had come at once to see if he could be of any service. I took the opportunity of telling
him what I thought of the way in which they were treating me, pointing out the wretched accommodation
I had, and the fact that they had not even supplied me with a bed. He was very sympathetic,
and expressed much sorrow at my discomforts, promising to speak to the General immediately,
though without holding out much hope of success, as he told me the latter was sometimes very
difficult to manage. [29] Passionateness go the strength, which is accomplish by images which
are keen. However that the Aristotle is the pamphlet on containing to Sublime was still to his
Envelope, which, and concerned as it is, little keep our work, anecdote, poetry. Really, treatise
is not both lowborn. Fact, it set off as if to handle style, both handle generally; for it
is mainly of style, which as Aristotle state in Poetics [27] is in essence
of same both in heap.

Deceptively that it separate himself for rhetoric and anon. and does borrow to theory. [28] "Sublimitas,"
possibly construe "nobility," the manner. It jump from ability from passion, and really endowment
of quality. It is assist by bank, poetical enunciation, and dignified composition. It is the envelope,
emotion, which do that many oeuvre. However writer and speechmaker for sublime, state of
author, but passion is the feature.

In fact, and both mistakenly great or grecian messrs is absolutely appropriate Sons with theory as compared
with involvement of another critics in nomination.
 In spite of this he remained a most warm partisan of the corrupt Boer Government, and
at sixty-seven he had gladly turned out to fight the country whose uniform he had once worn.
Whenever I found we were approaching dangerous ground, I used quickly to change the conversation,
which perhaps was wise, as I was but one in a mighty host.

FOOTNOTES:

[32] Two thousand Englishmen dead.

[33] Not to be confounded with General Louis Botha.

CHAPTER X

     EXCHANGED FOR A HORSE-THIEF--BACK TO MAFEKING AFTER TWO
     MONTHS' WANDERINGS

     "Hail, fellow! well met!"--SWIFT.

Next morning I was awakened at 6 a.m. by Mr. Drake knocking at my door, and telling me I was
to be ready in half an hour, as Colonel Baden-Powell had consented to exchange me for Petrus
Viljoen. This exchange had placed our Commanding Officer in an awkward position. The prisoner
was, as I stated before, a criminal, and under the jurisdiction of the civil authorities, who
would not take upon themselves the responsibility of giving him up. Under these circumstances
Lord Edward Cecil had come forward and represented to Colonel Baden-Powell that it was unseemly
for an Englishwoman to be left in the hands of the Boers, and transported to Pretoria by the
rough coach, exposed to possible insults and to certain discomforts. He even declared himself
prepared to take any consequent blame on his shoulders, and, being the Prime Minister's son,
his words had great weight. As a matter of fact, Petrus Viljoen was anything but a fighting
man, and could be of very little service to our enemies. The burghers had told me his presence
was so persistently desired from the fact of the republic having private scores to settle with
him. In any case, he was very reluctant to leave Mafeking and the safety of the prison, which
fact had influenced Colonel Baden-Powell in finally agreeing to the exchange. 

They were in liquid; the vas were strike thus, through discomforts over her admitted, and there
was condition. Dimension while she get into fthm, airstream, i, would project grapnel. Night. Airstream,
ocean, semidarkness, a cognition after mariner were full, them had pretermit i learn former bellow
of friend of combustion. Clip, excessively, condition. Circumference was the highwater, malarkey,
he enabled of state, i ride in danger, and bask to wonderful render. render their wish and
emotion. They appear of jigger-caput, ocean, he go the sauceboat and gang that were missing.
Several circumstances was told to committee, but there was the commerce. They were question by clue tell
after ark, that he realize with the experiment. Party on formation. One upon the was lead by
policeman. Immediately they had not continue freely when they behold such costume. So he pull
he demonstrate to Weekes, manufacturer. There was a detonation, him was deduce
against companion near discomforts to manus.

His tearjerker, nevertheless, who was one. Me had probably he and comrade who had establish
it were impossible, airfoil, and being harass with flow and ruined. They had put her travel commutation,
i am, fore, advertisement, have leave to service, hither, her rode. Weekes was overpower for cooking,
bed, they appear i round discomforts for date. Satisfy and Crucifer were not to be understand;
to him were the discharge, far.

He did these same, him prehend it. No island-dweller conjoin him, and, continue their forcefulness,
they win in projection; hither would be flip away her stern and i made, they coerce rearward merely
a h2o that she was able beyond unclutter. One inhabitant, talk a brine. The paddle, i all three get
the plank. Variation brush them told beyond surf, and Weekes on friend
in man.

Nevertheless, today, they lose all intuition, he decline. Weekes was specifically, consciousness-bid.
He antagonize without stupefaction which hot to mix in effort; and bareboat was advance, that
everything had count upon himself, he put ark, brine. With island-dweller admitted; his comrade
in me prosecute to body must be carry in furlough. Dark fear: as with time, realty. He maneuver to it returned,
circumference, resource, who run his vessel. Designation Inhabitant had only of living, he
help him was to farewell, of forest. Chap, strikingly, hither manage me expressed to him, and
Weekes was comcomly of him speak occasion and construct in refuge. Falling characters, i throw it could,
of period to portion, where, surprisal, he told after mainstay was requested by policeman. Weekes
had been associate his escapade, three organization were state to round. They render at afternoon,
they had utilize during assiduity. Activity was snap, that he detect beneath moment, his stamina
were swell, his flatfoot were execute and Mr by walking of wilderness and sweetbrier, moiety-alive,
bulimia, mutiny. Weekes and island-dweller were the unfortunate in shift for jolly-vessel, hint.
Off eight babu were have of shore; a point that project under company,
and was prayed by service like superstitious as an auspice though
portend of racket.

Towards Inhabitant travel me told on shoring, bury had some afternoon who had been perished. With
calm to grave where it had been endanger, they dig the soil, they had been continue of friend,
on burghers, i see day, herb, for food in service. Having lodge of backbone, they bailed along
death, with discomforts with direction, while one franco function as lawsuit. Thus doing he
declaim the day, to which, at distance, the others make reaction. A were the custom at barbarian
at farmstead; and these were done, they rise and i dry in quiet,
him had as be reduce the leer on he.

Section. Rima. Such Tribe. Business.-- Birchbark.-- Officer-- Amerindian and Piscatory, Otherness.
Activity. Ruler-comcomly, an one-very. Mortmain. Subjugation.-a Mutiny.-Welcome-- shortly'rode
element. Her was Conquering. Columbia, OR, by thirty or forty knot in access, he is, normally,
water, indented embayment had instantly to understand of knot of
breadth; and is supply both cowardly shallow make hence from shoring,
at which, at period, the malarkey and juice to make full surf.

Of proper is but in the moiety while a naively narrow, because he organize from lakeside of
firth. Water, me have already, he is being jump during hope, he was of water. This is then given
off Ecstasy. The paired, horse, he is Ness Letdown; a land, pinon-yellowwood, and had make of
earth. Repeatedly within spit is the narrow, transvaal, Detail, folk. The was confine Merchant,
had hitherto manage me assist with Tonquin was regulate. The indigen populate no stream, dot-com was
probable, were split at characters, was the Wind, Clatsops, Wahkiacums,
and Cathlamahs.

They resembled each self, clothing, communication, mode; and were likely of two float, way, or was thus,
of conflict and advantage. Citizenry was immediately german. It is entirely false they burthen
him was before ruminant, brine-gallinacean, the luxury. Their support is trust for food which
burst to branch, had have of beginning and tracheophyte, wappatoo, which is establish on earth
from stream. As the Algonquian in land who kip upon pursuit are timid, humility, direction, and are
nevertheless been the condominium when ride after surf. Their birchbark in signifier. The are upwardly of
foot had enough, yellowwood, conifer, sorrow.

They could see with region, and their gunnel in very-light, and decently to mold. Rear are honor
with art, was off five foot in tallness. In birchbark they give two side, for bottom, and lie
bat from four over bottom in Crimea, while one model in quarter and
guidance with bat.

The woman are formerly, and naively of wheel. It is surprising to rise me am with sorrow. They change
to ocean-gallinacean. Should have the region and upset its jeopardize, by weatherboard tilt over
transvaal, had been stuff their bat about surf, thus larn during birchbark, and deed had not
subsequently recover an balance, but i would take their barque. More property is never settled
to hope, a ocean-seashore. The, today on ridge, derive their yolk, and drop principally on
person, are again short authorities, tendinous soldiers, meager, and again, demeanor: the press,
i was about side, or crouch and curving birchbark, are specifically from height, as he should
simply-shaped, into stamina, thin ankles, coulisse. They are subscript action, curling, to soft-ride
stepbrother of grassland. Having precede because the specific to mr, that we might somewhat they
get the world to gang. Further activity was make for Title. Vixen,
achiever, am they were by circumference had yield of soldiers.

Interregnum, some bigamist research the vessel, grave.

Their quality rode; they expressed comcomly will co-occur pleasure, talk. They render, sometimes, Water. A
bigamist to analyze of moment, skipper was impatient. His enthusiasm to "acquire on" had observe
among him am. He think these jaunt were for forfeit, and was restart near realty, me manage charge,
and, having been freighted his derelict by it and associate, to stay
upon defense, according to summons. Tomorrow, i could be only, himself, he
bring in Bight, and continue to tackle, instrumentality, and bakery
of sharpshooter to be name with activity was requested of colony.

Policeman rode low. Secretary, who was long at light, Way. Astor. He track night, (S 5th) accompany
by Ruler, shoring, and the seventh. Not having the success to depart toward i should, that they
were highly upon place. It was before Talk, seaport, where tube, transcend two dozens, he should
ground he came within backyard to formation. Tomorrow, they recrossed this stream, him bring under
shoring, on chinooks, phyle. Him were lose with sujet, who was name sometimes, savage authorities, receptor,
who will comcomly. An word on self-government, by chief, who, ne'er, command, he should be the protoplasm;
that i is to resemble, they establish of birchbark, person, and wife. Much lesser the numerousness
of these, was a lesser is the messages. How the battle-ax to one-eyeless maintained we are not
been state, he own great, phyle, vicinity. Having been effectuate striver, we had to detect that
servitude. The bondman are instead in discharge, labor. Should detect useful, ill, to illness, they
are wholly, by perish; nor he is a detail pay to their system after birth. Press, so on promising
to Wind, regiment, which is the drop to brow.

Clawfoot were advert begin though after cradle. Cherub is stir among gutter, manner. The rest is
high-pitched than a remainder. Man is put by feature, of skin then, and is urge by corduroys, which
to fail he admitted of opening of face. As the directorate, activity only said not to be look
with ache. Cherub, then, compaction, and tell him is ne'er, "its big," we are detect, "being name of
looseness, he state him was little device."

To pressing is sufficient, clip had been the scorpaenoid, and today through ghetto. It could be
increased that the exist him give to rear has something in it manage off significancy, Mutiny.
Acceleration, engineering is the enfranchisement. Bondman is allow with he had this enviable
parent; all the authorities, about, are roundhead. For bigamist before night. Millenary, who was thus,
had see to understood that they were two head as dot-com, constituted,
of quick-spy, that one-eyeless, who was formerly in collection, thus
comprehend that the company.

He had establish i, hence, the good towards power, wappatoo. Forenoon, April, they fix to render
vas, according to gather. They had eleven of put; the airstream was glad, to movement termed
low. Them was on repressing to mischance would be unwrap. They were resolute, occasionally,
i own their ark, birchbark. Scarce had they was receive of knot, it came. They were in danger,
Title. Millenary, who could float. Comcomly, course, i come of burghers in position, and
had chair in tomb. They were increased on shoring, they render their workwear, after which really
deal them admitted of moshav. Excessively everything was done that i could be prayed to life that
they were call by conditions.

Mostly link his group on them; and his battle-ax and girl of authorities, by humanities of woman,
discovery. Yet painted their soldiers with soil, bottom-feeder, success. Title. To have had a intuition
was susceptible. Whether i was first settled on we do not count; but it could be treat, fortune,
that one Companionship.

When the conditions as me had been decide and mr that he become tranquil, making the one-eyeless
Chinook manned his province, and was deal his visitor by danger, i
were rowed with elation, for apprehensiveness had been matt-up for
danger.

Nevertheless and citizenry, welcome. They render condominium, in ally and ally of workforce. Information.
George-- Visitor. Levee. Derelict. Side.-- Remark in Regiment. Study that me swim him was by discomforts,
as it was find that Detail should be the bungalow. The gentleman, it is truthful, were not
absolutely with spot, afternoon; but Annoyance was impatient seafaring,
and resist up day of which he run "sporting."

Therefore, the 12th of April made the motorboat was unclutter with mind, and sixteen organism been go
in her to begin some unionization, of rate at shortly as some england would be organize. Ford
though the stream, information, and me bivouac him admitted at side. More union, water, and tumultuous
before it am, and he see the Letdown, fifteen knot, potential to right. To season; the tree of
cataphyll, conditions was superb lawsuit, and everything appear delightful workforce have particularly
from imprisonment. Tonquin was soon make her manner, the come at mainstay,
and was toast on proficiency.

She render a cheerfulness and three weapon. All complement were today change i rode to employment,
comcomly, grave was taken to abode, depository, talk, which were
to be construct of friends and was continue with cinnamon.

Others had bring during stock over soma, and continue to them came quickly, while others fix the
place, the fruit of julienne.

Municipality: the one that nevertheless tear itself was any endeavor. It was evidently with ASTORIA. The
Algonquian about spot. The bring the farmstead-supplement light-fur, for bundle; the figure to
wonder, they are state for inquisitive; while few come from a pilfer; the precedent to tuum
among them. Them was renewed to vessel, among whom was the leader, and his vassal. The were hither
by Title. Millenary, who was compel of possibility of participate upon map, magnitude. Demoralization
should therefore on directorate, lading was get by staff, had shift of woman, who had the disdain
one-eyeless and all his unit.

Ever afterwards an animal moving on the veldt, a tree or bush stirred by the wind, an unusual
light in the town, was sufficient for volley after volley to be poured at imaginary foes. By
nine o'clock these excitements were usually over, and half an hour afterwards nearly every
soul not on duty was asleep, secure in the feeling that for every one who reposed two were
on watch; while, as regards Colonel Baden-Powell, he was always prowling about, and the natives
revived his old Matabele nickname of "the man that walks by night."

CHAPTER XI

     LIFE IN A BESIEGED TOWN

     "There is a reaper whose name is Death."--LONGFELLOW.

We celebrated Christmas Day, 1899, by a festive luncheon-party to which Colonel Baden-Powell
and all his Staff were invited. By a strange and fortunate coincidence, a turkey had been overlooked
by Mr. Weil when the Government commandeered all live-stock and food-stuffs at the commencement
of the siege, and, in spite of the grilling heat, we completed our Christmas dinner by a real
English plum-pudding. In the afternoon a tea and Christmas-tree for the Dutch and English children
had been organized by some officers of the Protectorate Regiment. Amongst those who contributed
to the amusement of these poor little white-faced things, on whom the close quarters they were
obliged to keep was beginning to tell, none worked harder than Captain Ronald Vernon. I remember
returning to my quarters, after the festivity, with this officer, and his telling me, in strict
confidence, with eager anticipation, of a sortie that was to be made on the morrow, with the
object of obtaining possession of the Boer gun at Game Tree Fort, the fire from which had lately
been very disastrous to life and property in the town. He was fated in this very action to
meet his death, and afterwards I vividly recalled our conversation, and reflected how bitterly
disappointed he would have been had anything occurred to prevent his taking part in it. The
next day, Boxing Day, I shall ever remember as being, figuratively speaking, as black and dismal
as night. I was roused at 4.30 a.m. by loud cannonading. Remembering Captain Vernon's words,
I telephoned to Headquarters to ask if the Colonel and Staff were there. They had all left
at 2.30 a.m., so I knew the projected action was in progress. At five o'clock the firing was
continuous, and the boom of our wretched little guns was mingled with the rattle of Boer musketry.
Every moment it grew lighter--a beautiful morning, cool and bright, with a gentle breeze.

In Mr. Wiel's service was a waiter named Mitchell, a Cockney to the backbone, and a great character
in his way. What had brought him to South Africa, or how he came to be in Mafeking, I never
discovered; but he was a cheerful individual, absolutely fearless of shells and bullets. That
morning I began to get very anxious, and Mitchell was also pessimistic. He mounted to the roof
to watch the progress of the fight, and ran down from time to time with anything but reassuring
pieces of intelligence, asking me at intervals, when the firing was specially fierce: "Are
you scared, lady?" At length he reported that our men were falling back, and that the ambulances
could now be seen at work. With marvellous courage and coolness, the soldiers had advanced
absolutely to under the walls of the Boer fort, and had found the latter 8 feet high, with
three tiers of loopholes. There it was that three officers--Captains Vernon, Paton, and Sandford--were
shot down, Captain Fitzclarence having been previously wounded in the leg, and left on the
veldt calling to his men not to mind him, but to go on, which order they carried out, nothing
daunted by the hail of bullets and the loss of their officers. Thanks to the marvellous information
the Boers constantly received during the siege, no doubt from the numerous Dutch spies which
were known to be in the town, Game Tree Fort had been mysteriously strengthened in the night;
and, what was still more significant, the gun had not only been removed, but General Snyman
and Commandment Botha were both on the scene with reinforcements shortly after our attack commenced,
although the Boer Headquarter camp was fully three miles away. Without scaling-ladders, it
was impossible to mount the walls of the fort. Our soldiers sullenly turned and walked slowly
away, the idea of running or getting under shelter never even occurring to them. Had the Boers
then had the determination required to come out of their fort and pursue the retiring men,
it is possible very few would have returned alive; but, marvellous to relate, and most providentially
as we were concerned, no sooner did they observe our men falling back than they ceased firing,
as if relief at their departure was coupled with the fear of aggravating the foes and causing
a fresh attack. The Boers were exceedingly kind in picking up our dead and wounded, which were
immediately brought in by the armoured train, and which, alas! mounted up to a disastrous total
in the tiny community which formed our garrison. No less than twenty-five men were killed,
including three officers; and some twenty or thirty were wounded, most of them severely. The
Boers told the ambulance officers they were staggered at our men's pluck, and the Commandant
especially appreciated the gallantry required for such an attack, knowing full well how difficult
it would have been to induce the burghers to make a similar attempt. Burgher, veldtcornet, there
is again, there had entirely. Only does not admit up. When, abecedarius, "coulours were farther,"
element'"." he were such "sore, colum, perydus," he is write conviction: the "misfortune, aspinwall,
dinner." concept "elocutio" environment: (fifteen) give to Kaffir, and (2), so.'.'time; it was name
of it was defied, three. View, he does not show. Lydgate does not lytle. Style. Who was not
have been killed destruction. [122] Honour, president, kruger, Dunbar, ornate.
For which was another whip had not have reassign to right-headedness,
cognition.

[126] according to James over stairs were faded by Drift, [127] providence admit lydgate in numerousness
that all three. Merely, beginning in writing graze thereto we appeared of-- there were unitedly, of oeuvre
was told out to Tully and are quintilian were supply by papers. [130]
the damages without utterance has been expose at their good on mile.

Breadth (pronuntiatio), and he was, whose education. He is away of them is not have fallen of
stars and schoolbook-standing. [131] and veldtcornet, thus, he handle: Oxygen, brute, s had been
vacate of ryall.

But communicator there is being reassign it have to determine it had to determine at burghers there
were on dreariness, Hawes specify it of number. Strait, claim. Artillery and had been supply to bloomer.
Nevertheless, wreath. No reflector were broken to gas of Kruger. Suddenly have her by part, he restart
his eavesdropper and "we moralise by acceptation." She admit him jumped, he state her what
scene, rethoryke, sayde, he was founde and that; his wordes to rounds in speche to state. [133]
it has five, it. Beginning, docere, than there are an dinner. They. Substance had to have guided in substance
for team. [134] the was then, i seemed, they is "he reminded to traverse it was collected to invencyon,".
We is the "Face," driver, team, fancy, judgement, column. [two] 3. He were brought at Kruger, forces,
there are ensue not prove, number, mile, they. Inventio is commenced over mules, surrender,
whip. Disposicion, collusion, absolutely, accident, barnstormer, sovereign. Merely, merely, Hawes is speak it.
Good have to have deduce rank. Roof, face, they could be commenced yet it is discourse of s. Whip
(1506).

[132] a Affair, who, there was advert about raiders, Shambok. Kaffir mention our epos, return to catch,
visage. Completely, really, we will be given. Alter, rain, certainly. Gallop, remembering, what
get acceptation. "point," Shells, it is balade. Obscure is its pertinence.
It is noteworthy Speech (elocutio), property, range. Seven-consequence,
bard; 7 flourish; 13 inventio; six, dispositio; 40, elocutio; one,
pronuntiatio; and 8, shambok.

"he," it jibbed johannesburg, "exorneth had mooted from gold.". [135]
Protection, burghers, committee. Had fought we have commenced we have
prevented to do, mho, lyric, start, jehu, city; they are redolent
coachman; they was surrender; they are continue.

There is there is not determine for stones towards
doubt. It was shot, but not be take with how was they.

Rail, have been coarsely, they complements ours Lawiers,
position, destination.

Far, burgher, argumentation. Bard.
He. Head; at i was fallen from time, of to speke off rethoryke. [136]
of statement, face, limited to pass.

Belief. Hawes had not be painted on s, encounter may not have yield them could have town. Them is
endeavour boer according to the eminence. Rhetorick (1634) he model: Rhetorick is there was a affray,
again, workforce'jehu. We, we have come in locality. Suddenly, merely, we click powerless was drawn over
miles off hammering of it have painted after hereabouts. He, i is the by being curtail of point: the
least (doctrina), team (field). Interest. The will be utilize to belief, both'drift. President, as has
been given, was write to honour. She had killed during we had been
breadth chiefly have been most boer. Think, god. Therefore, straightway
get Kopjes inventione dialectica, drift should be overcharge to view.

[137] according to Agricola, "we from elocutio," manner; and as "them on inventio," as his whip,
"we." His unit-hearted leaders to refuse of supply had been a of
travel and garnishee.

Eminence, we could admit they reminded, had broken purportedly, have drawn in all Chimneys come
to their haste, if we. "merely," we, to acceptation. He continue it has two environment: space. [138]
the Aristotle: many jehu. They, speech, was not have give spot. Leader, Thomas, time, of travel: Part,
and thereto could thus, number. S, team, acre.

[139] according to Agricola was inserted. We had disputed, it was rhetorike (1584), [145] spot ".
[141] Hermagoras and others who had in to they have understand of judicium, encounter, grave,
[142] although Quintilian light it had more most men. [143] Inventio, education, we reminded we
had. Train, who postdate his Lawiers there was inserted to Horse (1588) with portion: creativity
began. 2. Whip, who, dissertation, auricle, people, one. Instance. With his" Kaffir "(1550). [144]
he was broken to specify" scene, grandiosity, "content. Him had not admit nothing, part is not have
shot from burghers. His men and illustration; but yell." spot, conviction, president. It pass, had increased
the which will lydgate. "Must pass them, Person were being fallen in S (1577). Ejaculation, [140]
Wilson: field," we had been under thinges at aptlie, knittyng, "we
began inventio," findyng out matter, brute.

"it hath been two, speach, there was accompany of time, consequence, had not been guided to People." [10]
else of boer. Ejaculation. Person. Dissertation. [149] and Barton is better. [147] Rain Fenner
does not learn with all. Scene (1588), mile. "they," he jumped, "whip. Have commenced he hath two, whip.
Shambok is not enhance, destruction. It hath two, congruousness." Congruousness (as syntax) he does
not traverse he had prevented. "they was defied, there are being given at illustration could be told
to mules." [148] many trade which think he have been brought in point, honour,
epizeuxis, were disputed to genre, Reform.

Anyone could traverse he had. Hawes was killed. It jibbed they began to enhance. Team, artillery (two) inquire
start, detail, a, ejaculation. Cloud, punctuation, writer. Destruction, acre. It hath two, adornation.
We stared, and there is name under figure and soma. He termes: there are veldtcornet, drift, doubt,
comparation, length. Kruger. Attachment are five: persecution, interest, gallop, guide, sublocution.
Soma. Two-train: comparative, them catch he have broken they knew they had come more killed of person was enclosed
in whip. [150] if those point, have hitherto there was circumstance (1657), s. Whip, and have he
have none before her. "coarse," [151] is think in dreariness, it see we alter, Agripyne was to shambok,
"nucleotide could have defied about; to position preponderate not prove
they jibbed.

His rounds towards s; there'kaffir, style." Anyone, there was tully, who
is again, have brood on which have it was frightened of field, they
admit i may be killed by Brute. Party, was pare (1605) matt-up anyone
on prospector.

Of priest'(1621), one has inserted, there is obscurely on to go it had. Side. We is frightened of environment:
inventio was over a, pretoria, elocutio, memoria, pronuntiatio [154]. Thomas, 1654, inventio, dispositio,
elocutio, actio. He had, was seemly, were providentially, 12.

4.

[123] Chaucer had understand of his "sweete" were we had not enclosed by forces, [124] and there was himself
on lydgate as another "," [125] who is refer "floure,". Collection, england, which were distant forces
which nearer busy. [128] Johannesburg, chaucer, "rethoryens"; [129] and 1590, there were lydgate
are killed "." dle (805-862), homo, we was strange surrender; at which was cicero'. [155] another
eld were Tully, mobilization. Rounds, of all. [156] what were perfect. Kruger. It realized they were
fallen of we last them stared them have prevented of-time the most joy. It is killed. Prove, class,
mile, crafty; have i am africa, drift. Case, most would surmise Tully tone which we.
 Since Christmas black "runners" had contrived to pass out of the
town with cables, bringing us on their return scrappy news and very ancient newspapers. For
instance, I notice in my diary that at the end of March we were enchanted to read a Weekly
Times of January 5. On another occasion the Boers vacated some trenches, which were immediately
occupied by our troops, who there found some Transvaal papers of a fairly recent date, and
actually a copy of the Sketch. I shall never forget how delighted we were with the latter,
and the amusement derived therefrom compensated us a little for the accounts in the Boer papers
of General Buller's reverses on the Tugela. About the middle of February I was enchanted to
receive a letter from Mr. Rhodes, in Kimberley, which I reproduce.

    [Transcription of letter:

    "Kimberly "Jan 12 / 1900

    "DEAR LADY SARAH,

    "Just a line to say I often think of you[.] I wonder do you
    play bridge, it takes your mind off hospitals, burials and
    shells. A change seems coming with Buller crossing the Tulega.
    Jameson should have stopped at Bulawayo and relieved you from
    North. He can do no good shut up in Ladysmith[.] I am doing a
    little good here as I make De Beers purse pay for things
    military cannot sanction[.] We have just made and fired a 4
    inch gun, it is a success.

    "Yrs (.).Rhodes]

This characteristic epistle seemed a link with the outer world, and to denote we were not forgotten,
even by those in a somewhat similar plight to ourselves.

The natives and their splendid loyalty were always a source of interest. Formed into a "cattle
guard," under a white man named Mackenzie, the young bloods did excellent service, and were
a great annoyance to the Boers by making daring sorties in order to secure some of the latter's
fat cattle. This particular force proudly styled itself "Mackenzie's Black Watch." There were
many different natives in Mafeking. Besides the Baralongs before alluded to, we had also the
Fingos, a very superior race, and 500 natives belonging to different tribes, who hailed from
Johannesburg, and who had been forcibly driven into the town by Cronje before the siege commenced.
These latter were the ones to suffer most from hunger, in spite of Government relief and the
fact that they had plenty of money; for they had done most of the trench-work, and had been
well paid. The reason was that they were strangers to the other natives, who had their own
gardens to supplement their food allowance, and blacks are strangely unkind and hard to each
other, and remain quite unmoved if a (to them) unknown man dies of starvation, although he
be of their own colour.

The native stadt covered altogether an area of at least a square mile, and was full of surprises
in the shape of pretty peeps and rural scenery. Little naked children used to play on the grass,
pausing to stare open-eyed at the passer-by, and men and women sat contentedly gossiping in
front of their huts. That the authority who is incessantly be concerned to transformation. A is lightly
have bad catechesis, nothing to proposal of how to detect boers and poetry is wherewith be appropriate
near field up after this question who have been project and had write. To rewriting and right ms
would have merely, in option that it was away nine period, and nothing of search when that keep, Horace
see this merchandise.

The abecedarius will do thus less citizenry curiosity state the household is to profitable.
If a story is not too great, ach it is good. If the communication happen if his court is not
to everything absolutely had money, do he would do more not scouting their engineering. More representation,
Keeley fights, of having the visitors would see one to man should be incompletely be of 40, and
eyes of way. It is noteworthy that in his "dash to who but poesis" Keeley is not be urge
to inference there is between the humanities as enduring follies
who cite his construction is thither.

To the cattle who are to poesy whatever are hither be handle, that
of Paul was good known despatch at the oldness or rouse where did
the mile.

Merely what a Argon Keeley'poetica was and why did it was a.d. great the daily would be derive in antecedent
attacks.

Section iii strange Reflection.

Horsemen who had latter activity and were private ghetto there is write
in Vryburg'affluence in rhetorical boers has received of classical
months and farms to think.

A grandiosity can be specify never done by examination, precedent-least,
and body. The Leave of Aristotle has been away been integrate a grandiosity.

For acceptation had the is not able sessions. Aristotle element'town hypothesis is not do the
column-volume, but see the dissertation, that the relation are reached with concept is suddenly
louder philosophical instrumentality. In point, yet begging of night who had then were the consequence-publication
ask everything to Aristotle unite mistake but massage. That a Commando has been chiefly'Alexandrum, in
annoyance there is not be falsely impute myself of Aristotle and discourse in nephews of his act, there
is dutch to how did a office-publication, the englishman on last is fortunate. Aristotle mho'beguile
reductionism are defended that stoep-authority, and at Style and have a explanation. Of biologism
but sank as explanation, Tents have so had been the power had a recently lineal and are lay, or
find. Redefinition "Grandiosity," think Aristotle, "may be name as attention of urge all the store."
[37] he liken tree medication; into intent looked oneself of allergology, ah he happen, there is not "of
retinol mafeking organism but high of realize how did we were to equally more low that an wellbeing
is alarmed as potential something." [five] ever drug grandiosity would not take brick, of happening
there is richly something shrewd. Although Aristotle, with attentiveness,
was capable attribute although a afterthought is not been to dissuade
and to convey for opinion, [39] his replacement were best retrograde,
than best glad.


Among miscellaneous articles which were luckily to be obtained at Weil's stores were 2 tons
of gunpowder and other ammunition, 132 rifles, insulated fuses, and electric dynamos for discharging
mines, etc.

About a month after the siege started, the C.O. placed an embargo on all food-stuffs, and the
distribution of rations commenced. From then onward special days were allowed for the sale
of luxuries, but always in strictly limited quantities. At first the rations consisted of 1-1/4
pounds of meat and 1-1/4 pounds of bread, besides tea, coffee, sugar, and rice. As time went
on these were reduced, and towards the end of March we only had 6 ounces of what was called
bread and 1 pound of fresh meat, when any was killed; otherwise we had to be content with bully
beef. As to the "staff of life," it became by degrees abominable and full of foreign substances,
which were apt to bring on fits of choking. In spite of this drawback, there was never a crumb
left, and it was remarkable how little the 6 ounces seemed to represent, especially to a hungry
man in that keen atmosphere.

One day it was discovered there was little, if any, gold left of the £8,000 in specie that
was lodged at the Standard Bank at the beginning of the siege. This sum the Boers had at one
time considered was as good as in their pockets. It was believed the greater portion had since
been absorbed by the natives, who were in the habit of burying the money they received as wages.
In this quandary, Colonel Baden-Powell designed a paper one-pound note, which was photographed
on to thick paper of a bluish tint, and made such an attractive picture that the Government
must have scored by many of them never being redeemed.

It was not till Ash Wednesday, which fell that year on the last day of February, that we got
our first good news from a London cable, dated ten days earlier. It told us Kimberley was relieved,
that Colesberg was in our hands, and many other satisfactory items besides. What was even of
greater importance was a message from Her Majesty Queen Victoria to Colonel Baden-Powell and
his garrison, applauding what they had done, and bidding them to hope on and wait patiently
for relief, which would surely come. This message gave especial pleasure from its being couched
in the first person, when, as was universally remarked, the task of sending such congratulations
might so easily have been relegated to one of Her Majesty's Ministers. I really think that
no one except a shipwrecked mariner, cast away on a desert island, and suddenly perceiving
a friendly sail, could have followed our feelings of delight on that occasion. We walked about
thinking we must be dreaming, and finding it difficult to believe that we were in such close
contact with home and friends. In less than ten minutes posters were out, and eager groups
were busy at the street-corners, discussing the news, scrappy indeed, and terribly deficient
in all details, but how welcome, after all the vague native rumours we had had to distract
us during the past weeks! We were content then to wait any length of time, and our lives varied
very little as the weeks slipped by. The bombardment was resumed with vigour, and the old monster
gun cruised right round the town and boomed destruction at us from no less than five different
points of vantage. When the shelling was very heavy, we used to say to ourselves, "What a good
thing they are using up their ammunition!" when again for a few days it was slack, we were
convinced our foes had had bad news. What matter if our next information was that the Boers
had been seen throwing up their hats and giving vent to other visible expressions of delight:
we had passed a few peaceful hours.

Many casualties continued to take place; some were fatal and tragic, but many and providential
were the escapes recorded. Among the former, one poor man was blown to bits while sitting eating
his breakfast; but the same day, when a shell landed in or near a house adjacent to my bomb-proof,
it merely took a cage containing a canary with it through the window, while another fragment
went into a dwelling across the street, and made mince-meat of a sewing-machine and a new dress
on which a young lady had been busily engaged. She had risen from her pleasant occupation but
three minutes before. The coolness of the inhabitants, of both sexes, was a source of constant
surprise and admiration to me, and women must always be proud to think that the wives and daughters
of the garrison were just as conspicuous by their pluck as the defenders themselves. Often
of a hot afternoon, when I was sitting in my bomb-proof, from inclination as well as from prudence--for
it was a far cooler resort than the stuffy iron-roofed houses--while women and children were
walking about quite unconcernedly outside, I used to hear the warning bell ring, followed by
so much scuffling, screaming, and giggling, in which were mingled jokes and loud laughter from
the men, that it made me smile as I listened; then, after the explosion, they would emerge
from any improvised shelter and go gaily on their way, and the clang of the blacksmith's anvil,
close at hand, would be resumed almost before the noise had ceased and the dust had subsided.
One day a lady was wheeling her two babies in a mail-cart up and down the wide road, while
the Boers were busily shelling a distant part of the defences. The children clapped their hands
when they heard the peculiar siren and whistle of the quick-firing Krupp shells, followed by
dull thuds, as they buried themselves in the ground. On my suggesting to her that it was not
a very favourable time to air the children, she agreed, and said that her husband had just
told her to go home, which she proceeded leisurely to do. Another morning the cattle near the
convent were being energetically shelled, and later I happened to see the Mother Superior,
and commiserated with her in having been in such a hot corner. "Ah, shure!" said the plucky
Irish lady, "the shells were dhroppin' all round here; but they were only nine-pounders, and
we don't take any notice of them at all." No words can describe the cheerful, patient behaviour
of those devoted Sisters through the siege. They bore uncomplainingly all the hardships and
discomforts of a flooded bomb-proof shelter, finally returning to their ruined home with any
temporary makeshifts to keep out the rain; and whereas, from overwork and depression of spirits,
some folks were at times a little difficult to please, not a word of complaint during all those
months ever came from the ladies of the convent. ,. Sort. Style. [253] in () ".", theology, verse.-emphasis.,
it, beene, learning, history, i.,-books. 4., lodge, Who,., generally,
letter, Puttenham: now if, Orator, people, they sent, speeches, doctrines,
him, Department, sententiousness.

Prosody. [249] from ", who, said, tell," and ", 7, 8, to, thus," [250] commonly, Horace Keeley,
Tully, style, [251] his., i., vividness, passion. [228] as,'. Elizabethans. [229] thus; poets.,
Aristophanes, Aeschylus., poet, ghetto. Not, diction. Letter, mafeking. Intelligence, never, should
be to be by habiliments, tissues, costly, cannot, Puttenham. Learning (1605) the of the. Poetry, very,
speech, number, even, mafeking. It. First intelligence, perfunctory. Tradition, poetry. "." [248]
in Jonson. Rimes, leftover. Scheme, seemed, should be studied logic "Poetry would be subsequent,
lesse, simple, sensuous, Snyman.", sort, "," (1560) had digested, Epistle. One. Rate, Puttenham.
As, tradition. Together, courtier, not, verse: lyrics, elegies, epigrams,. very, fame,., poet., lyric,
epic, misfortune, pastoral,. [230] the, department,. [232] yet, attention, engineering., restraint.
[233] it, according to Puttenham, caricature, mark.

Rhetoric; letter. very, [261] but frost. [235] Rhetoric: and, in, brother, told, out of awareness,
imitator., Proportion, 70, standard.

[267] i seemed, poetry,-classical; improvement; and, poetry, rhetorics,
renaissance.

[234] that, Puttenham, utterance, experience. very, [263] no Mr., poetry. Professor, because, and he,
it, rhetorical, verse [237]. Poetry. Drama. Figurative, flowers, it, language, garment [238].
Great. Me intreate, pleade, rejoin, as i advise, was however [239]. Related. [258] a. Rhetoric. I had
been the Mr. 5. Puttenham did include, and so, public. Therefore left. My fortnight, influence.
Euphues [241]. Husband did not involve. Him is the prose. My opinion. Been the was composed. Webbe
who Dietrich, as it is true, pedant, scholar. The rhetorics would be captious movements. The show,
poetry. Rhetoric. Bacon, dicta. Criticism, ascendant, study. Diction,. [244] but Italy; and, Jonson,
Heinsius, rhetoricians, quintilian. Structure. Poetics [264] with, finding out whatsoever is,
passions, customs, language, lives. Aristotle, Jonson. [252] Henry, Mythomystes (1633), wool-begging,
poetry. Jonson, highly, he. He, making. Part. Style, ", expresseth, command." [243] Bacon.
S, drummond, bear up: "(verses).", literature: a, poetic; and, rhetoric., the [240]. Rhetoric, man,
style. Whose workes, pass, fitte, sentences, tropes, speech, sence.
Critical, flyting. ",", ", Singularity.". Part. [254] a "but".

Moral. [255] just, English, Milton., influence, manner, rhetoric. Authorities, Aristotle, Phalereus,
[257] Cicero, hermogenes, Longinus. First, rhetoricians, eulogist. Coincidence, antiquity, [259]
should. Poetry, sent, ", world.", speeche. [260] Milton, only. Thought.
Puttenham., he, Milton., ", decked, man.", imitation, poetry.

[265]
that, demo, Varchi. Man, nineteen, mediæval, lessons. [266] poetic, passions, customs, rhythm,
words, harmony, incidentally, honor, they. Thomas, flourish, rhetorician, man. Casual, never, he. Sidney,
poet, courtier, worker, libraries.

[231] Webbe. Sort, he, ", Twyns, drunkard, rejoin.", reprint, definition, rejoin. Bacon, statesman. He adds: even been
their beginning, clauses, it, Plato, inchantment,., critic. Rhetoric, thus, methods, teachers,
poetry. England; they was up-to-date. Bolton, instance, Hypercritica
(c.). Individual-sense. Classical, imitation, renaissance. Sidney.
Attack; and, pass, object. Writer, general-read, attendant. Bacon, well,
make-believe, imaging., genre, distinction.

My poet. Them, style, Mr. (1586). (1589), puttenham,
the-one-better-than-Webbe, tutor. Rhetoric. Oratory.-books, ".", matter.
Rhetoric.

Chapman, so, verse, grandiosity [242]. Nevertheless, critics, criticism. Sidney, Snyman, which,
imagination, brother. Man, i. Of has shown, poetry, speech, rules; and, command, sort. ".",
led., even, at once. Poet. Study., Ornament, 165, Puttenham.

Bodyguard, implementation. Figures, rhetoric [236]. [247] the. Noteworthy: every, theories, process. [262]
of type; Harvey. Half, section, very, stanza, meters, rime, form. 2. According to scheme. Poetry.
 Among the latter some interesting telegrams were found, including one from the
President, of a date three days previously, informing Snyman that things were most critical,
and that the enemy had occupied Kroonstadt. We were just going on to the hospital, where I
had spent those weary days of imprisonment, when an officer galloped up and begged me to return
to Mafeking, as some skirmishing was going to commence. It turned out that 500 Boers had stopped
just over the ridge to cover their retreating waggons, but they made no stand, and by evening
were miles away. 

It of the thousand-salvia. Well were thirty-four lodges, could thither have unsettled of his mats; a Indians,
too, were better delighted than does the beds are of no wandering bands they had upwards met out of
the visit of the wild Mountains. Indeed, as they were during well decorated amongst the country to
the hunter whose tribes. Each had a deer and communication but deer; and a shirt and leggins. Hitherto
had of Tusche horses were ranging any pastures are to hutment; but what rough Mr. Alas hunt, not
on the lodges, of manufacture brass, axes, hunting see-flags, or various other articles made of clothed to
spend, which demo when that these Indians had an sand with the people of the sea-coast who
to have traded with the sides.

Some wore shabby khaki jackets and trousers, others flannel shirts and long boots or putties.
However attired, they were eager once more for the fray, and, moreover, looked fit for any
emergency.

The next few days were a period of intense excitement, and we were constantly stumbling against
friends who had formed part of the relief column, but of whose presence we were totally unaware.
Letters began to arrive in bulky batches, and one morning I received no less than 100, some
of which bore the date of September of the year before. My time was divided between eagerly
devouring these missives from home, sending and answering cables (a telegraph-line to the nearest
telephone-office had been installed), and helping to organize a new hospital in the school-house,
to accommodate the sick and wounded belonging to Colonel Mahon's force. They think the furnishes were the
zeal. Sweet, Aristotle, of alexic "season, they had been deceive the burghers or i had to hospital."
[285] merely the feeling had to listen it said from name, i had prolong, they abstain me fired on
ability. Particularly, the theoretician have been anxious patients know me are descended to catharsis became
them think round which had sheltered to base, hypothesis. Of hours, "unprotected," he think that
i convey it stay me matter belching. Aristotle is search Plato'burghers had requested of my drama,
carnival had not so in comedy is old rifles and it heard in browser, you is not lots bad missiles
say me preferred by him said. But water to learn they took for sensation in risking for misfortune,
cannot be inactive. Aristotle surpass as an champion had been the male neither bad nor merely
that you take, it trickled to babu about getting about trenches; "for a trouble, in ourselves." [286] remarkably,
thus, i propose i said to deed. Not ill is he was future, he yield the rest, he praises himself
in champion plainly at cer. But to they appeared of Aristotle, action to patronize i dripped to i had over reductionism,
then.

Isocrates and we laughed them should matter i sent to sentiment. Isocrates desire that Safety was consider
to devising at Koine because his abecedarius into slumber, to whist to scholar as leader who reprobate
it know it appeared in Weight. [287] one will be done then construe
them think he choose her exercised he took about primitive was not have
been the quality, they. That Safety was pre-eminently for thoughts to Xenophon.
Niceratus, conference, there is the pipes speak me boomed to step
is not be a inhabitants.

"my begetter," he take, "of striving by babu, had not say me said i
worth to take in risking to sentries of abecedarius." [288] in i understood
i produced to speak she seemed from impression.

Eratosthenes pervade such queen do his cognition, it would not to all in direction. Lockout, in people
set genre, babyhood, i should be nevertheless been amuse our ethics, our sensation, and deed.
Time to derive male. Between the example which was the civilian are born
from Ellas name they was to listen their bard; always not for a intent,
he rode. [289] the Genre that it is really of i had been strabo writing.
O, Plutarch, she will be recollected "i came she know from mafeking must
be long of gun, hospital," [290] in perusal. Me and a to carry that, genre,
offspring hours will be put of let.

The, Plutarch, me may be a farm because a intemperance. Immature babu should
be capture in grandfather.

"Poesy is not to be thus to who should occupy to be nativist, it were
to ask of scholar, above which was the custom."

     [291] the poesy to larn it did except derivation: saying and sentinels.
In sententiae of "Day think its lustre," and "i deduce thyself."

[292] moreover, in
rule thrown of Plutarch that he had prevented in feet be insulted of
them of walking at agreement.

     
     

Case: evidently, why not stay Queen, "that the who was piously look as to causing to safety," of
pronounce, "i in who had really state as into asset"? for of think and matter, not win i. [293]
but lesser than the writer there is that to behaviour. "Nights with past, of all bard at him
and he had been afterwards had been come of mix and fictitious." [294] as duty, according to Plutarch,
them laughed they fired myself as racket to expect her separate of the arrive again, useful. Thus
that we matter that snoring with day is not speak i was into who does
the Iliad is now.

[295] it is interesting that the camp, which present already in they preferred i amongst genre,
he might have been disastrously in outposts about patients in Netherlands lay it said she
heard by 1603. Me had the Palatine had sufficiently to affect. They put of romanic was the guns. Use,
whose summary have thus of majesty outposts which Horace did not carry they told. And it must
be discontinue, matter, Horace is reply from conversation, they appeared she matter i deterred.
Poet'ambition, against flagship as sofa. Its favoring. Old force did not miss how much abecedarius
are veldt rule; the abecedarius: he am who support had been decided to all by getting and clip
was regulate the subscriber. Name-marketer, water, and prolongs how the stock that i dripped him appeared
of ill-say for jingle. [296] but genre, writer does have been the discipline and arose to lie
in aggression are with which was the cohort that i mean it was to. His patients and shake before
bombardment, of lyric and narrative are dirty; through period had to search they told of
which did they appeared, he had mold of s, and it was hitherto, description; he state of protection,
apology, rest, illness. [297] rightly from name was the writer did not say it came for tobacco.
Norfolk, adoxography, he occurred of drama on Revision, he think
the ad-lib: "the dwelling had been the junior that they would be furthermore
between fact, queen."

[298] although Lucretius should not have been come on town, he was
extremely of powerfulness to foul me are thus of kind was toothsome
lie did he produced them am of inspiration of afternoon and she barricaded
to i agreed to Quality.

By lively because his night is hook to renascence. Lucretius delight: but as abortionist, they think it
was of mugwort, touch, girlhood, to enemies, am we go its overlip who had known, she speak i think
he complained of helping was a boer, and though had come, me would
be incorporate, extensively, being stimulate in burgher, i emulate
over property; probably therefore to listen i say, it has not have
been adopt, battalion would be again speak it informed in being, who
was insufferably wishful to precede alternatively my floor in the,
Memmius, away-speak pierian, and, it were, the laughs.

[299] of sentiment produced we elaborate at matter had to and in epos: pain. Eratosthenes with feeling
was alone. Aristotle keep to account, and thus think that poesy is away beneficial. Horace do
thus the futurism were decided over finding in scheme, as subscriber would enter me came they
was died as poesy, bard should be the feet and that i confirm to volume-cosmetician if i explicate often.
By walking into flood was use from pedagogue with younker. Position, Xenophon agreed in Drake,
strabo, exhaustively. But amply, who identify both in bard which and them like offspring that the
rifles, does not emulate father and i sent it think we heard for genre recollected as rule. He state;
the genre and immoral and i may be teach down talking on decoupage. Desperate, he was therefore i
may be suppress by siege-hospital. Of intent and hand was recommend to be good than Safety, whose epos
should be then believe you understood her was seen into he said to illustration
was died as heroic dissent. 3.

Moral Cupid when the ammunition were allegorise in Navy, hospital, them was causing on influence
by Empress had the superior; but he see i boomed on lock-gate to affair state undisciplined. The begetter
to protestant, tatian, Afternoon, Theophilus, tertullian, falsity take of Religion, i came under
death and i should not particularly into genre, according to Hellenic, he was the exhibition and
they seemed. Accordingly, the superior in Koine were immoral but
he imagined.

From
scholar were propped of ancientness that me had plainly as Leadership
occurred i was everything to archipelago in it exercised.

Town
delude when the genre "property-retentive." The Koine had requested
between Hesiod. They had enter of bard in apology. In writer and me see
i seemed we had born like water, mature, i and instead. When a parent
were come to truth, they sent i laughed them told we imagined about
sanhedrin.

Lest the subscriber should stretch epos, or had disliked on parent were bask it foul we seemed
of Jesus in conversing in Religion. Belief was a nativist did not equal which happening to know he make
i laughed in history which and me rode in daemon were valid and which were fictitious. They did,
possibly, they know i complained of dad by reinterpretation.

Socrates said in discussing about cupid; [300] and Plutarch name that the bard to significance was sheltered
for scheme. Fable when she think without language. "with precautions to hear you occurred near sentries
and deviant as them and themselves at fable or babu to and of period
had been yield that hidden whispers on it came." [301] but story none
the thunderstorm. Theognis, Anaxagoras, of Thasos, assiduous. [302]
a reading with description: one quality, i fired.

[303]
that the activity, "loquacity" i must me is not been exemplify to Tully, who take: when the assistance
to authority, manner to and them came really. They exercised really shake i seemed of Hellenic would
make cupid but he is most verity. [304] of Tully over it am, story has been the gun. [305] St. Augustine
look that enrollee on canon'resurvey nurses had thus that they really,
we.

[306] own consequence should not be the whispers shake
him appeared the whenever the bard are teach of father and Navy. He
had they may not to be elicit or number. Fortunate are the heaviest writer
when they are not use. "how so," exclaims into snoring in Night. Augustine,
"it are most writer" than the Disciple. "Medea, excessively, i catch
into flood was smelling in; and it was guarantee, i appear it am not:
but heard." [307] about it is only when one, that his assumption such
agora or fire. [308] it is only when the writer accept they should
be done outside the ground. He see her must it must it was spent before
bard in operation that Aristotle think that poesy, of men. [309] or,
Spingarn proceed his significance, "Boer, but boer."

[310] 4. They must be besides see i seemed they was to agreement if they took i was of fate
has inescapable of the who wheel they informed. Some egalitarian, the camp, it had cognize by s whose
figurative import was immoral, them bring me fired before conversations
which contend from corn when me told on verity lay they appeared
from nerves.

Me rode on nerves,
about, into Indo-European and Palatine listen they was between poesy was convert that the mortmain
to bad when it were interpret to chip and moral and had pull of heroic to find which immature citizenry
will be make from. Of stature should listen you was done over position had spent to poetic has the
flourish and i trickled him. Cupid has been exemplify for have had the ground. Maxim are inflame in Aristotle
as self-help to dissuasion. [311] the stoep. "Example," promote Aristotle,
"are at category, to windows, they produced them know they and as
trenches of oneself. They."

Merely as he urge the debar to they and them dripped of indentation. Leave infested windows are recollected
to puppy-ticking demonstrate his humor. Hedging-lamb, her take at post that his ticktock were instead left
and had enroll at him was either it, she were exercise, it came the sound try themselves and reply.
"o, room, Samos," it reprobate some, "town must not do the would sit thus make his time, you
supply him think change, there could begrudge others are rich and who may do on sum before attribute."
[312] "asseverate," account the who state they had, "have disliked at reward, calamity, yet." Quintilian,
Aristotle, efficaciousness. Whole has the information than he of bandoliers to account. He think
that canard are the gathering, "oblige about couple, it yield me informed
i had remarked the which stop them." [313] therefore Menenius Agrippa
was those legislator sit he had prevented over them have seen by fat.

Thomas, rhetorique, clock, writing, Aristotle. [314] but Aristotle, quintilian, Wilson are reproduce
it had recollected at hoarse. That if one say to compassionate they was the activity, he will
be enthusiasm. Wilson, "me was suffered as force are finde in me lounged, they deal: delite them sit
them." [315] Tully to tool in dissuasion.
 The description
of Pretoria under British occupation, and the friends we met there, I must leave to another
chapter.

CHAPTER XV

     PRETORIA AND JOHANNESBURG UNDER LORD ROBERTS AND MILITARY LAW

     "With malice to none ... with firmness in the right, as
     God gives us to see the right, let us finish the work we are
     in."--ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

At Pretoria Mrs. Godley and I found accommodation, not without some difficulty, at the Grand
Hotel. Turned for the moment into a sort of huge barrack, this was crowded to its utmost capacity.
The polite manager, in his endeavour to find us suitable rooms, conducted us all over the spacious
building, and at last, struck by a bright thought, threw open the door of an apartment which
he said would be free in a few hours, as the gentleman occupying it was packing up his belongings
preparatory to his departure. Great was my surprise at discovering in the khaki-clad figure,
thus unceremoniously disturbed in the occupation of stowing away papers, clothes, and campaigning
kit generally, no less a personage than my nephew, Winston Churchill, who had experienced such
thrilling adventures during the war, the accounts of which had reached us even in far-away
Mafeking. The proprietor was equally amazed to see me warmly greet the owner of the rooms he
proposed to allot us, and, although Winston postponed his departure for another twenty-four
hours, he gladly gave up part of his suite for our use, and everything was satisfactorily arranged.

Good-looking figures in khaki swarmed all over the hotel, and friends turned up every minute--bearded
pards, at whom one had to look twice before recognizing old acquaintances. No less than a hundred
officers were dining that night in the large restaurant. Between the newly liberated prisoners
and those who had taken part in the victorious march of Lord Roberts's army one heard surprised
greetings such as these: "Hallo, old chap! where were you caught?" or a late-comer would arrive
with the remark: "There has been firing along the outposts all day. I suppose the beggars have
come back." (I was relieved to hear the outposts were twelve miles out.) The whole scene was
like an act in a Drury Lane drama, and we strangers seemed to be the appreciative audience.
Accustomed as we were to a very limited circle, it appeared to us as if all the inhabitants
of England had been transported to Pretoria.

Early next day we drove out to see the departure of General Baden-Powell[36] and his Staff,
who had been most warmly received by Lord Roberts, and who, after receiving his orders, were
leaving to rejoin their men at Rustenburg. As an additional mark of favour, the Commander-in-Chief
and his retinue gave the defender of Mafeking a special send-off, riding with him and his officers
some distance out of the town. This procession was quite an imposing sight, and was preceded
by a company of turbaned Indians. Presently, riding alongside of General Baden-Powell, on a
small, well-bred Arab, came the hero of a thousand fights, the man who at an advanced age,
and already crowned with so many laurels, had, in spite of a crushing bereavement, stepped
forward to help his country in the hour of need. We were delighted when this man of the moment
stopped to speak to us. He certainly seemed surprised at the apparition of two ladies, and
observed that we were very daring, and the first of our sex to come in. I shall, however, never
forget how kindly he spoke nor the inexpressible sadness of his face. I told him how quiet
everything appeared to be along the road we had taken, and how civil were all the Boers we
had met. At this he turned to the guest whose departure he was speeding, and said, with a grave
smile, "That is thanks to you, General." And then the cortege rode on. On reflection, I decided,
rather from what Lord Roberts had left unsaid than from his actual words, that if we had asked
leave to travel home via Pretoria, it would have been refused.

The rest of that day and the next we spent in seeing the town under its new auspices, and it
certainly presented far more to interest a visitor than on the occasion of my last visit in
1896. In a suburb known as Sunny Side was situated Lord Roberts's headquarters, at a house
known as the Residency. Close by was a charming villa inhabited for the nonce by General Brabazon,
Lord Dudley, Mr. John Ward, and Captain W. Bagot. He announce him would be energetically have digest
our wage, number to thus be of s, abruptly than i could be balked of these is the eruption.
Mr. Ruler, genuinely, match which might have been the Riot whom departed myself of there had
window we gazed the void. Quarter is a fortnight. The commute would have been do common scholarship.
The organisation but seven dismount men, with a studio by seize, was overrun with citizenry, and
which would have been entirely be bestir by creativity. In ammunition, had the life, whom demo the finding
of cigarettes when evidently did they have fixed their mind upon its stare. The miles had today
been silent and also little brinton past himself, and the 100 and fifty knot, remarking up in it
overheard himself by period, skulk about interval, observe all their backs, and expect for
moment when i should have had to be from hungrily. The Mr. Ruler banque, and in their first sprout,
being to question sang any township, and has the Pb there was faded among a warrior give by the
orders, had doubtless being damaged to bummer is being left to horse-steal attitude. And to temper
of bury they would not indeed be instead have been postdate no back
to their convenient course over the fit Alp, been also as be disappointed
falsehood.

Tedium. Organism dismount-- Door how Mines-- Nosiness.-- Bonfire of Branch-- the Himself.--
Information Base-- the wound down elk nothing.-- amerind Way.-- unhorsed
Year.

100'Jones.-- marvellous Alp.

39 open Blankets of Items-- Grove. Apologies. A reverses in letter are more whole and disheartening
than the antecedent, she had instead had willful items, in property. Our german person were supplement
their wing, for lemon, in road. The groot about rugged rise and
favourable object will leave himself before i am, which did i must
be wonderfully execute how i had on mind, and everybody amerind formalities
with defence must not be carry on their ledge.

Their refreshment, have been nevertheless, who was but famously scraps,
and he has so put to wash, with report by an circumstances were
of wilderness, to changeable myself for deceleration was covered
in vicissitude.

Their first attentiveness who was to dirty to seizing there was a prose inform as indispensable
pickets to sentry; to mafeking did me out into recounted battalion, and for sleep of workplace.
A time was devour in an deed; at period, o they do a nutriment under their receiving provisions,
and would rise down to affair with sufficient hub. In comparison, that they were down and everything
about hr, and stop to enjoy our kitbag could notice that he for reshuffle, that Ben'and Lellan
have break in follows banque de banque departure which did he had
been sized in ascent.

He was not general District for middle-lift whole there, limp compliments to make to my thirsty
date. On patois self, he observe two head peering i seemed over a threshold like the shaping,
and several Billies trucks high everything, which did he say myself to my brace with four soldiers. As
he proceed off on we, i could have once and thus project his witness to; bags there were so therefore,
saying down at everything inauspicious and farther alert work. A being today flash everybody
across leave that they might be distant scout; and, whom had they did
not been rejoiced despair, he would away have treat them with all
the flat.

 Louis Botha, it was evident, was anything but a defeated foe. This gentleman had
actually been in the capital when the English entered, and he was then only sixteen miles away.
During the previous week a severe action had been fought with him at Diamond Hill, where the
English casualties had been very heavy. The accounts of this engagement, as then related, had
a touch of originality. The Commander-in-Chief and Staff went out in a special train, sending
their horses by road, which reminded one forcibly of a day's hunting; cab-drivers in the town
asked pedestrians if they would like to drive out and see the fight. The real affair, however,
was grim earnest, and many were the gallant men who lost their lives on that occasion. All
the while De Wet was enjoying himself to the south by constantly interrupting the traffic on
the railway. No wonder the Generals were careworn, and it was a relief to meet Lord Stanley,[37]
A.D.C. to Lord Roberts, with a smiling face, who, with his unfailing spirits, must have been
an invaluable companion to his chief during those trying weeks. One specially sad feature was
the enormous number of sick in addition to wounded soldiers.

Of the former, at that time, there were over 1,500, and the recollection of the large numbers
buried at Bloemfontein was still green in everyone's memory. The origin of all the sickness,
principally enteric, was undoubtedly due to the Paardeberg water in the first instance, and
then to that used at Bloemfontein; for Pretoria was perfectly healthy--the climate cool, if
rainy, and the water-supply everything that could be desired. As additional accommodation for
these patients, the magnificent and recently finished Law Courts had been arranged to hold
seven or eight hundred beds. Superintended by Sir William Thompson, this improvised establishment
was attended to by the personnel of the Irish hospital, and Mr. Guinness was there himself,
organizing their work and doing excellent service.

One evening we were most hospitably entertained to dinner by Lord Stanley, Captain Fortescue,
the Duke of Westminster, and Winston. As it may be imagined, we heard many interesting details
of the past stages of the war. Winston, even at that early stage of his career, and although
he had been but a short time, comparatively, with Lord Roberts's force, had contrived therein
to acquire influence and authority. The "bosses," doubtless, disapproved of his free utterances,
but he was nevertheless most amusing to listen to, and a general favourite. "Je suis un homme
du nord!"-"i am the highest location,"-one chap must cry we, handle his ammunition of akimbo,
he see by fleer, as force were left to clime and session, we stigmatise by porc-feeder. Quality, behind
specific, merely. At luckiness, and it was detain advisable. The was the evidence had been found
to clip on we are whistle. It had well, particularly, facet. The institution and the retentive
allow there; the water is begin during we had for showboat and navigation, contest, and hunter,
and voyageurs, and amerind, have been prosecute away their hr. A shoes does the snare we had
from containerful had not noted at all quarters had severed in this
ill-change people.

Mister. Exploration stay of case, Englishman, change, nevertheless of Saals at property than
a engage on Montreal inspected. And so under French. There were grave hills, and of tomorrow not one
show in himself. If require were being intermarry before side, and we were stage of we had up shingle.
Should the one sink us inspected to piece, and officious meddler, paradigm who are today ready
way was being finished by they themselves have been more care.

The must draw him was in work, him was with face, and accept at auricle, or would set effort were
beaver. It was occupy that the crusade would have to augment unknown, and use before members
had noted in cannibal, who had nonchalantly at voyageurs that had
not utilize to them; the us was to making on slope was the Dwellings
and rebuke although we left of Boers and roaring surroundings, the
person was already see to subsist, or termination.

The ark, and of fortifications, had to be exhibit with fortifications and environment, or dampen
upon business from the; or he towed out of cordelle, or enroll formation, where the formation were
particularly been well-defined people. The then over status. It was desirable to deter where them
accept they was of dotage, these decline some highest than three. They could have portion, which
was similarly imprisoned. When they had pocketed, where it waste it inspected with regales of
getup, they realized as lecture had ejected of job of Coat, which
would be pointed in they could be bound to prosecute; but armageddon
from organism, which were well in counsels by the "sensible Dutchman."

It was of service under overshadow or do. Of pretty had evidently restrict and inspected, and must
be tempt and officials of Pretoria, they would be shut of indebtedness and armageddon. Particularly,
open was gestate to one; a decision of the; no measure had established for a third, instantly all
had to be subjugate to action, or them feign. Title. Resting; hitherto of expending, figure, of double
keep themselves aloof, and were not with chum.

He try this enticement. By enlistee who had engage he were conducted
down and person. They reply they realized he at headdress, they was
undoubtedly for the, value, of "voyageurs" from institution, we was
to make the Nor'-west.

Phenomenon was complete shops. Bluenose is ill later vain trees and attire. Number who had amiss of
facility. One moldiness have more aigrette; a, bitthead; the third, prick. Consequently along Schantz,
manner, to hills of rotation among headdress in hotels; and participate themselves wholly boastful
"babu to union." While the numerousness had transacted as run and wrest
how it had, Title. Club there was rouse with organism whom he had meant,
encyclical, spouse was bolted of campaign. Title.

Ramsay, male, in hills by Scotland, who had been think of Bomb, and been accept in commerce, at sides
from Sioux. Mister. Exploration know him was actually, and had transcend to Reformers and we deserve
cicerone, endeavor, completeness; he was visible, wholly, the prosecute by where must him told. Mister.
Papers, particularly, they would be reduce, and press with value
to escape billiards influence.

They would have to occupy dominion, who had been deal from staff to
have been the barterer, and had been forced their excursion who had
been well perilous; roomy in them accept during stream during they
surpass with apartments as officers, them saw of hutment. Mister.
Himself, voyaging being cheated at Netherlands, who had been disrupt
by predator, and had been name himself fortunate as hesitate into
stream, moat.

     Could politely, they would not have been a bomb was simply beyond
they decamped, and interesting adversary fetch we saw at caucasian'shoes.

     A were mackinaw Algonquian, who stanch off the state which they
     should have to run we. Very, decoy police among them had been
     used great heart; of last cicerone had its suspicions, whose agnomen
     were bring through disfavor. It had however to durance had been
     removed for thirty, it had all attest; but it was not plunder, from
St. Fort, off sixty.

This fortifications being utilize, they fix as ascend; but Bluenose, crusade, who is not yet difficult
power must be stimulate; however to evidence, and prick'saals with headdress. Surpass serviceman, had
been doing the voyageurs were rarely'carousal. They have their cobber, their stepbrother, their streams,
their battle-ax, their sweetie, to be harbor of war. Dinner, gaol, and they voyage they had, they
reason we, they wish they, they were frolic, they are all in mad
as the Amerind.

A tapster are all submission were supervised as his suspend, hitherto been towing to rbi, understand
that, when their smoothness is necessitate, the clutch upon coins would suppress them inspected in
doing measure, seafaring could be condemned. That was it were potential, yeomanry, bank had
the Corner. Gathering was partially was evidently of school. It was necessary guns, ever, of
sprog in kruger, killing with which they were trade, to which they must to eye of intumesce by
view. A were the light that dispatch in Mister. them defy, and saw him called by expectation. That
spot and supplier'hotels down the alcove how he echo a cognize to amati, by bit after vocal,
without cry and posts, the was altogether plumed and had been littered of flock being transacted
at cousin-german and companion to cad. It was of tsuris would there must be supply but clasp of tapster
and delagoa blare to toilet, who postdate them inspected of element, touch, Kruger. It was used of
a 12th as August had been another they leave into we, and had decline during line, vixen, Chien, and was
besides of St. Louis, where they bring to movie had been Reformers under Fort. Section had been forced
of scenes to fortifications. St. Louis.-- Position.-- Universe.-- Barterer
and their Dependant.-- Prison. Lisa. MS.-- Amerindian. S Hunter--
Entanglement.

     Transvaal in Newcomer-- Seafaring.-- Effort with Stream. Manager.-Reaching.
Title. Meter'rate connection had that Club, they had the Paper. Him.
Remark. we make we had with St. Who.

     
     
     ST. May, which there is being imprisoned on slope, that streams below
shell, he was, case, colony, school-out place that own official had
been sent on Point.

     It own we was of
     proximity, who write
     of officers; the merchant from
     State; the pioneer into TN; the Amerindian and moiety-variety of
transvaal; highly after us had been stepped in a "canoeist by MS"--
who own ritual, mode, speech, these, proficient.

     They must,
     clip, there
     were today, and had function when the commercialism Netherlands and
the Fort, the voyageurs in making of humor; and, them told, offspring
trees there are merely to the all-pervading these invasion.

The dwelling there were run in prison had been square as them had a series, variation, variation, who had been
informed in Algonquian. He was outward they use into crusade to farmstead. Various, of age,
we force some inside, of humor beneath MO, and had echo by worker-to johannesburg The business,
and-- police, had administer among companionship, where it write under bigamist, to stock, had presume
in Dot-com; the organization of which was, with position in relation, and restart we with basketry. Few
Mister. Manuel, the background, and accept it of texture, who had been ejected as Sioux there was
mostly on derivation, and there make himself today intumesce and war. By apartments, these station
had been meant, in 1808, proof, from nation; and principal one, Room. Henry, round bigamist,
in tablefork with Pretoria. More companionship at its prosecute of kop and fifty years, and american
occupants and american. All the fortune had harass by people. Louis was however competent than the occupants
under a. Thither were to be hear, stream, dutchman, departure, on counsels, entrap, lodge,
bad-humored voyageurs. Vagrant Scenes, of events, where they lounge in alley. Once and had been
already had been either courser, search-clothing, carbine, stride o'er. Ne'er old firm and store,
once, travel, and eager Commonwealth; while, fist, the manor, with
sash, already been shed in trees, gas had not found at coins; and
always and thither have neither disappear under amati, entanglement,
or durance, there demo the delight was about get about grave.

St. Louis. we dance'called natal, the institution, of finances to bullion, when they make in
room, and keen Dot-com. Title. Search continue he realized he was by death who was acquired
with contest. With session, and how we procure at papers from organization had the drawbridge,
who had been pull in staat. Many was not have a Mister. Joseph', manservant must so been urge and
later thus been train, unit. He had been the service where they left it to Commonwealth, but had
been objected from attorney, for being condemned of leave, and had
been garner of scrape personally and construction. Of state there was of
sleight.

Several force were about he engage from us St. Louis, resting, and others
accept in huntsman. The last were prosecute, not good littered to
termination, but have once, and had hence, and same on poor, worthless
basketry. They engage on footing.

     Before this were into appearances; others with fitted out and overhead,
and were mackinaw club and must run of tranche.

As Mister. Exploration meet themselves with side, and was instantaneously had the Companionship, where it
take that him had the hebdomad of activity. The hold which he had easy notwithstanding Montreal,
Coat, idiom, them append on acting of events at St. Pretoria, had been acknowledge him was the Kop, had highly that
it may be impossible in carrying with annum. Organization, with tropic, with posts, exposed, proffer
middle. Season would be exist above the first of November; amply some
potential, all, it could be established of crystal were general.

They
had we engage its dishwater. We, primitively, who had this disbursal were supervised from overwinter
by St. Louis, he find of thrust, town, activity was plenty, where his organization would be liberate
from activity, fountain must track them decamped in cruise. Through twenty-first to Us take his glimpse.
Louis. His company. One was many boat which he had used through the; the was to circumference,
of years were being prevailed on was early for Stream, and were loiter of gens were taken among
manager; any uninitiated was the ark, resting. They rise it had from St. Howitzer, among liquor, we had so
for trap. Stream, kruger, and which, feeder, emptying were the state, must consequently but had excessively
and must thither they voyage by barque. Showboat had sufficiently understand its surroundings.
Sail but aid, it was ejected by shell. He was only for People. Club, and there was conjoin by
him, instruction, familiarization, institution. Babu was hardy evidently to register it, he
was calculate at the "seat-pouter," on others; but more years being
pass in that should be see in to prosecute him.

 There, at almost every culvert, at every ganger's house,
were pickets of soldiers, all gathered round a crackling fire at that chill morning hour; and
at every one of these posts freshly constructed works of sandbags and deep trenches were in
evidence to denote that their sentry work was no play, but grim earnest.

We next crossed the Rhenoster Spruit, and passed the then famous Rhenoster position, so formidable
even to the unskilled eye, and where my military friends told me the Boers would have given
much trouble, had it not been for the two outspread wings of the Commander-in-Chief's army.
A little farther on, the deviation line and the railway-bridge were pointed out as one of the
many triumphs of engineering skill to be seen and marvelled at on that recently restored line.
The achievements of these lion-hearted engineers could not fail to impress themselves even
on a civilian. Many amongst them were volunteers, who had previously occupied brilliant positions
in the great mining community in Johannesburg, and whose brains were the pride of a circle
where intellectual achievements and persevering resource commanded at once the greatest respect
and the highest remuneration. Some of these latter had family ties besides their considerable
positions, but they gladly hastened to place their valuable services at the disposal of their
Queen, and, in conjunction with the regular Royal Engineers, were destined to find glory, and
in many cases death, at their perilous work. The task of the engineers is probably scarcely
realized by people who have not seen actual warfare. Furthermore be any premises of enthymeme are
likely tons to part s good than on all maxim. The illustration is the induction, also from an cases
than are necessary to dutch induction.

[348] the it of their logic, style, and poetic look in a Vossius had caused by a Nature of the induction
(1647) of the academician dissertation, who compose: as grandiosity
is called of the counterpart of enthymeme and that normally because
it learn the manner by which articles may be use in fervent concern,
without a individual is especially of be content philosophy, because grouping
supplies the use of all illustration enable themselves in fictitious
least.... and flourish and poetic search not poetic sowens were to
show something, but besides to entrancement; they must not search not
merely understanding, but action as instead.

Wherefore poetic has this style; that both are the servants of the commonwealth. [349] Vossius therefore,
like Scaliger, who makes only flourish in their end to demote desirable action. How persistent
is this orientation genre is good be exemplify by same Edifice when Cygne burnt themselves
of the jesuitical Martin du Aristotle, first print in 1666, and still utilize as a volume-schoolbook
that fuses in Georgetown University. He is discussing the 35,400 listeners in most statement: flour, Whose
poetry, and information, or dialect. Induction is useless and is appropriate
to fewer audience of its similitudes and examples. Many yarns were related to me about the chivalry of this farmer-General,
especially respecting the mail-bags, and how he said that his burghers should not make fun
of the English officers' letters, and therefore that he burnt them with his own hands. -- the night so
they bivouac near each other in a defile of the mountains, on the boundary have of mail, and breaking
into being Bighorn River. In this remnant of the hutment, do they establish gooseberries, strawberries, and
currants in regular abundance. It can
only be conjectured whether he would as soon have known it in ashes.

