Casting a furtive glance on the point indicated by the ruffian, the youth saw, for the first
time, a succession of bars--a rail fence, in fact, of more than usual height--completely crossing
the narrow pathway and precluding all passage. Approaching the place of strife, the same glance
assured him, were two men, well armed, evidently the accomplices of the robber who had pointed
to them as such. The prospect grew more and more perilous, and the youth, whose mind was one
of that sort which avails itself of its energies seemingly only in emergencies, beheld his
true course, with a moment's reflection, and hesitated not a single moment in its adoption.
He saw that something more was necessary than to rid himself merely of the ruffian immediately
before him, and that an unsuccessful blow or shot would leave him entirely at the mercy of
the gang. To escape, a free rein must be given to the steed, on which he felt confident he
could rely; and, though prompted by the most natural impulse to send a bullet through the head
of his assailant, he wisely determined on a course which, as it would be unlooked for, had
therefore a better prospect of success.

Without further pause, drawing suddenly from his bosom the bowie-knife commonly worn in those
regions, and bending forward, he aimed a blow at the ruffian, which, as he had anticipated,
was expertly eluded--the assailant, sinking under the neck of the steed, and relying on the
strength of the rein, which he still continued to hold, to keep him from falling, while at
the same time he kept the check upon the horse.

This movement was that which the youth had looked for and desired. The blow was but a feint,
for, suddenly turning the direction of the knife when his enemy was out of its reach, he cut
the bridle upon which the latter hung, and the head of the horse, freed from the restraint,
was as at once elevated in air. The suddenness of his motion whirled the ruffian to the ground;
while the rider, wreathing his hands in the mane of the noble animal, gave him a free spur,
and plunged at once over the struggling wretch, in whose cheek the glance of his hoof left
a deep gash.

The steed bounded forward; nor did the youth seek to restrain him, though advancing full up
the hill and in the teeth of his enemies. Satisfied that he was approaching their station,
the accomplices of the foiled ruffian, who had seen the whole affray, sunk into the covert;
but, what was their mortification to perceive the traveller, though without any true command
over his steed, by an adroit use of the broker bridle, so wheel him round as to bring him,
in a few leaps, over the very ground of the strife, and before the staggering robber had yet
fully arisen from the path. By this manoeuvre he placed himself in advance of the now approaching
banditti. Driving his spurs resolutely and unsparingly into the flanks of his horse, while
encouraging him with well known words of cheer, he rushed over the scene of his late struggle
with a velocity that set all restraint at defiance--his late opponent scarcely being able to
put himself in safety. A couple of shots, that whistled wide of the mark, announced his extrication
from the difficulty--but, to his surprise, his enemies had been at work behind him, and the
edge of the copse through which he was about to pass, was blockaded with bars in like manner
with the path in front. He heard the shouts of the ruffians in the rear--he felt the danger,
if not impracticability of his pausing for the removal of the rails, and, in the spirit which
had heretofore marked his conduct, he determined upon the most daring endeavor. Throwing off
all restraint from his steed, and fixing himself firmly in the stirrup and saddle, he plunged
onward to the leap, and, to the chagrin of the pursuers, who had relied much upon the obstruction,
and who now appeared in pursuit, the noble animal, without a moment's reluctance, cleared it
handsomely.

Another volley of shot rang in the ears of the youth, as he passed the impediment, and he felt
himself wounded in the side. The wound gave him little concern at the moment, for, under the
excitement of the strife, he felt not even its smart; and, turning himself upon the saddle,
he drew one of his own weapons from its case, and discharging it, by way of taunt, in the faces
of the outlaws, laughed loud with the exulting spirit of youth at the successful result of
an adventure due entirely to his own perfect coolness, and to the warm courage which had been
his predominating feature from childhood.

The incident just narrated had dispersed a crowd of gloomy reflections, so that the darkness
which now overspread the scene, coupled as it was with the cheerlessness of prospect before
him, had but little influence upon his spirits. Still, ignorant of his course, and beginning
to be enfeebled by the loss of blood, he moderated his speed, and left it to the animal to
choose his own course. But he was neither so cool nor so sanguine, to relax so greatly in his
speed as to permit of his being overtaken by the desperates whom he had so cleverly foiled.
He knew the danger, the utter hopelessness, indeed, of a second encounter with the same persons.
He felt sure that he would be suffered no such long parley as before. Without restraining his
horse, our young traveller simply regulated his speed by a due estimate of the capacity of
the outlaws for pursuit a-foot; and, without knowing whither he sped, having left the route
wholly to the horse, he was suddenly relieved by finding himself upon a tolerably broad road,
which, in the imperfect twilight, he concluded to be the same from which, in his mistimed musings
he had suffered his horse to turn aside. He had no means to ascertain the fact, conclusively,
and, in sooth, no time; for now he began to feel a strange sensation of weakness; his eyes
swam, and grew darkened; a numbness paralyzed his whole frame; a sickness seized upon his heart;
and, after sundry feeble efforts, under a strong will, to command and compel his powers, they
finally gave way, and he sunk from his steed upon the long grass, and lay unconscious;--his
last thought, ere his senses left him, being that of death! Here let us leave him for a little
space, while we hurriedly seek better knowledge of him in other quarters.

CHAPTER III.

YOUNG LOVE--THE RETROSPECT.

It will not hurt our young traveller, to leave him on the greensward, in the genial spring-time;
and, as the night gathers over him, and a helpful insensibility interposes for the relief of
pain, we may avail ourselves of the respite to look into the family chronicles, and show the
why and wherefore of this errant journey, the antecedents and the relations of our hero.

Ralph Colleton, the young traveller whose person we have described, and whose most startling
adventure in life, we have just witnessed, was the only son of a Carolinian, who could boast
the best blood of English nobility in his veins. The sire, however, had outlived his fortunes,
and, late in life, had been compelled to abandon the place of his nativity--an adventurer,
struggling against a proud stomach, and a thousand embarrassments--and to bury himself in the
less known, but more secure and economical regions of Tennessee. Born to affluence, with wealth
that seemed adequate to all reasonable desires--a noble plantation, numerous slaves, and the
host of friends who necessarily come with such a condition, his individual improvidence, thoughtless
extravagance, and lavish mode of life--a habit not uncommon in the South--had rendered it necessary,
at the age of fifty, when the mind, not less than the body, requires repose rather than adventure,
that he should emigrate from the place of his birth; and with resources diminished to a cipher,
endeavor to break ground once more in unknown forests, and commence the toils and troubles
of life anew. With an only son (the youth before us) then a mere boy, and no other family,
Colonel Ralph Colleton did not hesitate at such an exile. He had found out the worthlessness
of men's professions at a period not very remote from the general knowledge of his loss of
fortune: and having no other connection claiming from him either countenance or support, and
but a single relative from whom separation might be painful, he felt, comparatively speaking,
but few of the privations usually following such a removal. An elder brother, like himself
a widower, with a single child, a daughter, formed the whole of his kindred left behind him
in Carolina; and, as between the two brothers there had existed, at all times, some leading
dissimilar points of disposition and character, an occasional correspondence, due rather to
form than to affection, served all necessary purposes in keeping up the sentiment of kindred
in their bosoms. There were but few real affinities which could bring them together. They never
could altogether understand, and certainly had but a limited desire to appreciate or to approve
many of the several and distinct habits of one another; and thus they separated with but few
sentiments of genuine concern. William Colleton, the elder brother, was the proprietor of several
thousand highly valuable and pleasantly-situated acres, upon the waters of the Santee--a river
which irrigates a region in the state of South Carolina, famous for its wealth, lofty pride,
polished manners, and noble and considerate hospitality. Affluent equally with his younger
brother by descent, marriage had still further contributed toward the growth of possessions,
which a prudent management had always kept entire and always improving. Such was the condition
of William Colleton, the uncle of the young Ralph, then a mere child, when he was taken by
his father into Tennessee.

There, the fortune of the adventurer still maintained its ancient aspect. He had bought lands,
and engaged in trade, and made sundry efforts in various and honorable ways, but without success.
Vocation after vocation had with him a common and certain termination, and after many years
of profitless experiment, the ways of prosperity were as far remote from his knowledge and
as perplexing to his pursuit, as at the first hour of his enterprise. In worldly concerns he
stood just where he had started fifteen years before; with this difference for the worse, however,
that he had grown older in this space of time, less equal to the tasks of adventure; and with
the moral energies checked as they had been by continual disappointments, recoiling in despondency
and gloom, with trying emphasis, upon a spirit otherwise noble and sufficiently daring for
every legitimate and not unwonted species of trial and occasion. Still, he had learned little,
beyond hauteur and querulousness, from the lessons of experience. Economy was not more the
inmate of his dwelling than when he was blessed with the large income of his birthright; but,
extravagantly generous as ever, his house was the abiding-place of a most lavish and unwise
hospitality.

His brother, William Colleton, on the other hand, with means hourly increasing, exhibited a
disposition narrowing at times into a selfishness the most pitiful. He did not, it is true,
forego or forget any of those habits of freedom and intercourse in his household and with those
about him, which form so large a practice among the people of the south. He could give a dinner,
and furnish an ostentatious entertainment--lodge his guest in the style of a prince for weeks
together, nor exhibit a feature likely to induce a thought of intrusion in the mind of his
inmate. In public, the populace had no complaints to urge of his penuriousness; and in all
outward shows he manifested the same general characteristics which marked the habit of the
class to which he belonged.

But his selfishness lay in things not so much on the surface. It was more deep and abiding
in its character; and consisted in the false estimate which he made of the things around him.
He had learned to value wealth as a substitute for mind--for morals--for all that is lofty,
and all that should be leading, in the consideration of society. He valued few things beside.
He had different emotions for the rich from those which he entertained for the poor; and, from
perceiving that among men, money could usurp all places--could defeat virtue, command respect
denied to morality and truth, and secure a real worship when the Deity must be content with
shows and symbols--he gradually gave it the chief place in his regard. He valued wealth as
the instrument of authority. It secured him power; a power, however, which he had no care to
employ, and which he valued only as tributary to the maintenance of that haughty ascendency
over men which was his heart's first passion. He was neither miser nor mercenary; he did not
labor to accumulate--perhaps because he was a lucky accumulator without any painstaking of
his own: but he was, by nature an aristocrat, and not unwilling to compel respect through the
means of money, as through any other more noble agency of intellect or morals.

There was only one respect in which a likeness between the fortunes of the two brothers might
be found to exist. After a grateful union of a few years, they had both lost their wives. A
single child, in the case of each, had preserved and hallowed to them the memories of their
mothers. To the younger brother Ralph, a son had been born, soothing the sorrows of the exile,
and somewhat compensating his loss. To William Colleton, the elder brother, his wife had left
a single and very lovely daughter, the sweet and beautiful Edith, a girl but a few months younger
than her cousin Ralph. It was the redeeming feature, in the case of the surviving parents,
that they each gave to their motherless children, the whole of that affection--warm in both
cases--which had been enjoyed by the departed mothers.

Separated from each other, for years, by several hundred miles of uncultivated and untravelled
forest, the brothers did not often meet; and the bonds of brotherhood waxed feebler and feebler,
with the swift progress of successive years. Still, they corresponded, and in a tone and temper
that seemed to answer for the existence of feelings, which neither, perhaps, would have been
so forward as to assert warmly, if challenged to immediate answer. Suddenly, however, when
young Ralph was somewhere about fifteen, his uncle expressed a wish to see him; and, whether
through a latent and real affection, or a feeling of self-rebuke for previous neglect, he exacted
from his brother a reluctant consent that the youth should dwell in his family, while receiving
his education in a region then better prepared to bestow it with profit to the student. The
two young cousins met in Georgia for the first time, and, after a brief summer journey together,
in which they frequented the most favorite watering places, Ralph was separated from Edith,
whom he had just begun to love with interest, and despatched to college.

The separation of the son from the father, however beneficial it might be to the former in
certain respects of education, proved fatal to the latter. He had loved the boy even more than
he knew; had learned to live mostly in the contemplation of the youth's growth and development;
and his absence preyed upon his heart, adding to his sense of defeat in fortune, and the loneliness
and waste of his life. The solitude in which he dwelt, after the boy's departure, he no longer
desired to disturb; and he pined as hopelessly in his absence, as if he no longer had a motive
or a hope to prompt exertion. He had anticipated this, in some degree, when he yielded to his
brother's arguments and entreaties; but, conscious of the uses and advantages of education
to his son, he felt the selfishness to be a wrong to the boy, which would deny him the benefits
of that larger civilization, which the uncle promised, on any pretexts. A calm review of his
own arguments against the transfer, showed them to be suggested by his own wants. With a manly
resolution, therefore, rather to sacrifice his own heart, than deny to his child the advantages
which were held out by his brother, he consented to his departure. The reproach of selfishness,
which William Colleton had not spared, brought about his resolve; and with a labored cheerfulness
he made his preparations, and accompanied the youth to Georgia, where his uncle had agreed
to meet him. They parted, with affectionate tears and embraces, never to meet again. A few
months only had elapsed when the father sickened. But he never communicated to his son, or
brother, the secret of his sufferings and grief. Worse, he never sought relief in change or
medicine; but, brooding in the solitude, gnawing his own heart in silence, he gradually pined
away, and, in a brief year, he was gathered to his fathers. He died, like many similarly-tempered
natures, of no known disorder!

The boy received the tidings with a burst of grief, which seemed to threaten his existence.
But the sorrows of youth are usually short-lived, particularly in the case of eager, energetic
natures. The exchange of solitude for the crowd; the emulation of college life; the sports
and communion of youthful associates--served, after a while, to soothe the sorrows of Ralph
Colleton. Indeed, he found it necessary that he should bend himself earnestly to his studies,
that he might forget his griefs. And, in a measure he succeeded; at least, he subdued their
more fond expression, and only grew sedate, instead of passionate. The bruises of his heart
had brought the energies of his mind to their more active uses.

From fifteen to twenty is no very long leap in the history of youth. We will make it now, and
place the young Ralph--now something older in mind as in body--returned from college, finely
formed, intellectual, handsome, vivacious, manly, spirited, and susceptible--as such a person
should be--once again in close intimacy with his beautiful cousin. The season which had done
so much for him, had been no less liberal with her; and we now survey her, the expanding flower,
all bloom and fragrance, a tribute of the spring, flourishing in the bosom of the more forward
summer.

Ralph came from college to his uncle's domicil, now his only home. The circumstances of his
father's fate and fortune, continually acting upon his mind and sensibilities from boyhood,
had made his character a marked and singular one--proud, jealous, and sensitive, to an extreme
which was painful not merely to himself, but at times to others. But he was noble, lofty, sincere,
without a touch of meanness in his composition, above circumlocution, with a simplicity of
character strikingly great, but without anything like puerility or weakness.

The children--for such, in reference to their experience, we may venture to call them--had
learned to recognise in the progress of a very brief period but a single existence. Ralph looked
only for Edith, and cared nothing for other sunlight; while Edith, with scarcely less reserve
than her bolder companion, had speech and thought for few besides Ralph. Circumstances contributed
not a little to what would appear the natural growth of this mutual dependence. They were perpetually
left together, and with few of those tacit and readily understood restraints, unavoidably accompanying
the presence of others older than themselves. Residing, save at few brief intervals, at the
plantation of Colonel Colleton, they saw little and knew less of society; and the worthy colonel,
not less ambitious than proud, having become a politician, had left them a thousand opportunities
of intimacy which had now become so grateful to them both. Half of his time was taken up in
public matters. A leader of his party in the section of country in which he lived, he was always
busy in the responsibilities imposed upon him by such a station; and, what with canvassing
at election-polls and muster-grounds, and dancing attendance as a silent voter at the halls
of the state legislature, to the membership of which his constituents had returned him, he
saw but little of his family, and they almost as little of him. His influence grew unimportant
with his wards, in proportion as it obtained vigor with his faction--was seldom referred to
by them, and, perhaps, if it had been, such was the rapid growth of their affections, would
have been but little regarded. He appeared to take it for granted, that, having provided them
with all the necessaries called for by life, he had done quite enough for their benefit; and
actually gave far less of his consideration to his own and only child than he did to his plantation,
and the success of a party measure, involving possibly the office of doorkeeper to the house,
or of tax-collector to the district. The taste for domestic life, which at one period might
have been held with him exclusive, had been entirely swallowed up and forgotten in his public
relations; and entirely overlooking the fact, that, in the silent goings-on of time, the infantile
will cease to be so, he never seemed to observe that the children whom he had brought together
but a few years before might not with reason be considered children any longer.

Children, indeed! What years had they not lived--what volumes of experience in human affections
and feelings had the influence and genial warmth of a Carolina sun not unfolded to their spirits--in
the few sweet and uninterrupted seasons of their intercourse. How imperious were the dictates
of that nature, to whose immethodical but honest teachings they had been almost entirely given
up. They lived together, walked together, rode together--read in the same books, conned the
same lessons, studied the same prospects, saw life through the common medium of mutual associations;
and lived happy only in the sweet unison of emotions gathered at a common fountain, and equally
dear, and equally necessary to them both. And this is love--they loved!

They loved, but the discovery was yet to be made by them. Living in its purest luxuries--in
the perpetual communion of the only one necessary object--having no desire and as little prospect
of change--ignorant of and altogether untutored by the vicissitudes of life--enjoying the sweet
association which had been the parent of that passion, dependent now entirely upon its continuance--they
had been content, and had never given themselves any concern to analyze its origin, or to find
for it a name. A momentary doubt--the presages of a dim perspective--would have taught them
better. Had there been a single moment of discontent in their lives at this period, they had
not remained so long in such ignorance. The fear of its loss can alone teach us the true value
of our treasure. But the discovery was at hand.

A pleasant spring afternoon in April found the two young people, Ralph and Edith--the former
now twenty years of age, and the latter in the same neighborhood, half busied, half idle, in
the long and spacious piazza of the family mansion. They could not be said to have been employed,
for Edith rarely made much progress with the embroidering needle and delicate fabric in her
hands, while Ralph, something more absorbed in a romance of the day, evidently exercised little
concentration of mind in scanning its contents. He skimmed, at first, rather than studied,
the pages before him; conversing occasionally with the young maiden, who, sitting beside him,
occasionally glanced at the volume in his hand, with something of an air of discontent that
it should take even so much of his regard from herself. As he proceeded, however, in its perusal,
the story grew upon him, and he became unconscious of her occasional efforts to control his
attention. The needle of Edith seemed also disposed to avail itself of the aberrations of its
mistress, and to rise in rebellion; and, having pricked her finger more than once in the effort
to proceed with her work while her eyes wandered to her companion, she at length threw down
the gauzy fabric upon which she had been so partially employed, and hastily rising from her
seat, passed into the adjoining apartment.

Her departure was not attended to by her companion, who for a time continued his perusal of
the book. No great while, however, elapsed, when, rising also from his seat with a hasty exclamation
of surprise, he threw down the volume and followed her into the room where she sat pensively
meditating over thoughts and feelings as vague and inscrutable to her mind, as they were clear
and familiar to her heart. With a degree of warm impetuosity, even exaggerated beyond his usual
manner, which bore at all times this characteristic, he approached her, and, seizing her hand
passionately in his, exclaimed hastily--

"Edith, my sweet Edith, how unhappy that book has made me!"

"How so, Ralph--why should it make you unhappy?"

"It has taught me much, Edith--very much, in the last half hour. It has spoken of privation
and disappointment as the true elements of life, and has shown me so many pictures of society
in such various situations, and with so much that I feel assured must be correct, that I am
unable to resist its impressions. We have been happy--so happy, Edith, and for so many years,
that I can not bear to think that either of us should be less so; and yet that volume has taught
me, in the story of parallel fortunes with ours, that it may be so. It has given me a long
lesson in the hollow economy of that world which men seek, and name society. It has told me
that we, or I, at least, may be made and kept miserable for ever."

"How, Ralph, tell me, I pray you--how should that book have taught you this strange notion?
Why? What book is it? That stupid story!" was the gasping exclamation of the astonished girl--astonished
no less by the impetuous manner than the strong language of the youth; and, with the tenderest
concern she laid her hand upon his arm, while her eyes, full of the liveliest interest, yet
moistened with a tearful apprehension, were fixed earnestly upon his own.

"It is a stupid book, a very stupid book--a story of false sentiment, and of mock and artificial
feelings, of which I know, and care to know, nothing. But it has told me so much that I feel
is true, and that chimes in with my own experience. It has told me much besides, that I am
glad to have been taught. Hear me then, dear Edith, and smile not carelessly at my words, for
I have now learned to tremble when I speak, in fear lest I should offend you."

She would have spoken words of assurance--she would have taught him to think better of her
affections and their strength; but his impetuosity checked her in her speech.

"I know what you would say, and my heart thanks you for it, as if its very life depended upon
the utterance. You would tell me to have no such fear; but the fear is a portion of myself
now--it is my heart itself. Hear me then, Edith--my Edith, if you will so let me call you."

Her hand rested on his assuringly, with a gentle pressure. He continued--

"Hitherto we have lived with each other, only with each other--we have loved each other, and
I have almost only loved you. Neither of us, Edith (may I believe it of you?) has known much
of any other affection. But how long is this to last? that book--where is it? but no matter--it
has taught me that, now, when a few months will carry us both into the world, it is improper
that our relationship should continue. It says we can not be the children any longer that we
have been--that such intercourse--I can now perceive why--would be injurious to you. Do you
understand me?"

The blush of a first consciousness came over the cheek of the maiden, as she withdrew her hand
from his passionate clasp.

"Ah! I see already," he exclaimed: "you too have learned the lesson. And is it thus--and we
are to be happy no longer!"

"Ralph!"--she endeavored to speak, but could proceed no further, and her hand was again, silently
and without objection, taken into the grasp of his. The youth, after a brief pause, resumed,
in a tone, which though it had lost much of its impetuousness, was yet full of stern resolution.

"Hear me, Edith--but a word--a single word. I love you, believe me, dear Edith, I love you."

The effect of this declaration was scarcely such as the youth desired. She had been so much
accustomed to his warm admiration, indicated frequently in phrases such as these, that it had
the effect of restoring to her much of her self-possession, of which the nature of the previous
dialogue had a little deprived her; and, in the most natural manner in the world, she replied--perhaps
too, we may add, with much of the artlessness of art--

"Why, to be sure you do, Cousin Ralph--it would be something strange indeed if you did not.
I believe you love me, as I am sure you can never doubt how much you are beloved by me!"

"Cousin Ralph--Cousin Ralph!" exclaimed the youth with something of his former impetuosity,
emphasizing ironically as he spoke the unfortunate family epithet--"Ah, Edith, you will not
understand me--nor indeed, an hour ago, should I altogether have understood myself. Suddenly,
dear Edith, however, as I read certain passages of that book, the thought darted through my
brain like lightning, and I saw into my own heart, as I had never been permitted to see into
it before. I there saw how much I loved you--not as my cousin--not as my sister, as you sometimes
would have me call you, but as I will not call you again--but as--as--"

"As what?"

"As my wife, Edith--as my own, own wife!"

He clasped her hand in his, while his head sunk, and his lips were pressed upon the taper and
trembling fingers which grew cold and powerless within his grasp.

What a volume was at that moment opened, for the first time, before the gaze and understanding
of the half-affrighted and deep-throbbing heart of that gentle girl. The veil which had concealed
its burning mysteries was torn away in an instant. The key to its secret places was in her
hands, and she was bewildered with her own discoveries. Her cheeks alternated between the pale
and crimson of doubt and hope. Her lips quivered convulsively, and an unbidden but not painful
suffusion overspread the warm brilliance of her soft fair cheeks. She strove, ineffectually,
to speak; her words came forth in broken murmurs; her voice had sunk into a sigh; she was dumb.
The youth once more took her hand into his, as, speaking with a suppressed tone, and with a
measured slowness which had something in it of extreme melancholy, he broke silence:--

"And have I no answer, Edith--and must I believe that for either of us there should be other
loves than those of childhood--that new affections may usurp the place of old ones--that there
may come a time, dear Edith, when I shall see an arm, not my own, about your waist; and the
eyes that would look on no prospect if you were not a part of it, may be doomed to that fearfullest
blight of beholding your lips smiling and pressed beneath the lips of another?"

"Never, oh never, Ralph! Speak no more, I beseech you, in such language. You do me wrong in
this--I have no such wish, no such thought or purpose. I do not--I could not--think of another,
Ralph. I will be yours, and yours only--if you really wish it."

"If I wish! Ah! dear Edith, you are mine, and I am yours! The world shall not pass between us."

She murmured--

"Yours, Ralph, yours only!"

He caught her in his passionate embrace, even as the words were murmured from her lips. Her
head settled upon his shoulder; her light brown hair, loosened from the comb, fell over it
in silky masses. Her eyes closed, his arms still encircled her, and the whole world was forgotten
in a moment;--when the door opened, and a third party entered the room in the person of Colonel
Colleton.

Here was a catastrophe!

CHAPTER IV.

A RUPTURE--THE COURSE OF TRUE LOVE.

Colonel Colleton stood confounded at the spectacle before him. Filled with public affairs,
or rather, with his own affairs in the public eye, he had grown totally heedless of ordinary
events, household interests, and of the rapid growth and development of those passions in youth
which ripen quite as fervently and soon in the shade as in the sun. These children--how should
they have grown to such a stature! His daughter, at this moment, seemed taller than he had
ever seen her before! and Ralph!--as the uncle's eyes were riveted upon the youth, he certainly
grew more than ever erect and imposing of look and stature. The first glance which he gave
to the scene, did not please the young man. There was something about the expression of the
uncle's face, which seemed to the nephew to be as supercilious, as it certainly was angry.
Proud, jealous of his sensibilities, the soul of the youth rose in arms, at the look which
annoyed him. That Edith's father should ever disapprove of his passion for his cousin, never
once entered the young man's brain. He had not, indeed, once thought upon the matter. He held
it to be a thing of course that the father would welcome a union which promised to strengthen
the family bond, and maintain the family name and blood in perpetuity. When, therefore, he
beheld, in his uncle's face, such an expression of scorn mixed with indignation, he resented
it with the fervor of his whole soul. He was bewildered, it is true, but he was also chafed,
and it needed that he should turn his eyes to the sweet cause of his offence, before he could
find himself relieved of the painful feelings which her father's look and manner had occasioned
him.

Poor Edith had a keener sense of the nature of the case. Her instincts more readily supplied
the means of knowledge. Besides, there were certain family matters, which the look of her father
suddenly recalled--which had never been suffered to reach the ears of her cousin;--which indicated
to her, however imperfectly, the possible cause of that severe and scornful expression of eye,
in the uncle, which had so confounded the nephew. She looked, with timid pleading to her father's
face, but dared not speak.

And still the latter stood at the entrance, silent, sternly scanning the young offenders, just
beginning to be conscious of offence. A surprise of any kind is exceedingly paralyzing to young
lovers, caught in a situation like that in which our luckless couple were found on this occasion.
It is probable, that, but for this, Ralph Colleton would scarcely have borne so meekly the
severe look which the father now bestowed upon his daughter.

