"Thanks," said John. "Permit me," and he filled her own as well.

As the meal proceeded there was some desultory talk about the weather, the ship's run, and
so on; but Mrs. Carling was almost silent, and her husband said but little more. Even Miss
Blake seemed to have something on her mind, and contributed but little to the conversation.
Presently Mr. Carling said, "Mary, do you think a mouthful of wine would hurt me?"

"Certainly not," was the reply. "It will do you good," reaching over for his glass and pouring
the wine.

"That's enough, that's enough!" he protested as the foam came up to the rim of the glass. She
proceeded to fill it up to the brim and put it beside him, and later, as she had opportunity,
kept it replenished.

As the dinner concluded, John said to Mr. Carling: "Won't you go up to the smoking room with
me for coffee? I like a bit of tobacco with mine, and I have some really good cigars and some
cigarettes--if you prefer them--that I can vouch for."

As usual, when the unexpected was presented to his mind, Mr. Carling passed the perplexity
on to his women-folk. At this time, however, his dinner and the two glasses of wine which Miss
Blake had contrived that he should swallow had braced him up, and John's suggestion was so
warmly seconded by the ladies that, after some feeble protests and misgivings, he yielded,
and John carried him off.

"I hope it won't upset Julius," said Mrs. Carling doubtfully.

"It won't do anything of the sort," her sister replied. "He will get through the evening without
worrying himself and you into fits, and, if Mr. Lenox succeeds, you won't see anything of him
till ten o'clock or after, and not then, I hope. Mind, you're to be sound asleep when he comes
in--snore a little if necessary--and let him get to bed without any talk at all."

"Why do you say 'if Mr. Lenox succeeds'?" asked Mrs. Carling.

"It was his suggestion," Miss Blake answered. "We had been talking about Julius, and he finally
told me he thought he would be the better of an occasional interval of masculine society, and
I quite agreed with him. You know how much he enjoyed being with George Nollis, and how much
like himself he appeared."

"That is true," said Mrs. Carling.

"And you know that just as soon as he got alone again with us two women he began backing and
filling as badly as ever. I believe Mr. Lenox is right, and that Julius is just petticoated
to death between us."

"Did Mr. Lenox say that?" asked Mrs. Carling incredulously.

"No," said her sister, laughing, "he didn't make use of precisely that figure, but that was
what he thought plainly enough."

"What do you think of Mr. Lenox?" said Mrs. Carling irrelevantly. "Do you like him? I thought
that he looked at you very admiringly once or twice to-night," she added, with her eyes on
her sister's face.

"Well," said Mary, with a petulant toss of the head, "except that I've had about an hour's
talk with him, and that I knew him when we were children--at least when I was a child--he is
a perfect stranger to me, and I do wish," she added in a tone of annoyance, "that you would
give up that fad of yours, that every man who comes along is going to--to--be a nuisance."

"He seems very pleasant," said Mrs. Carling, meekly ignoring her sister's reproach.

"Oh, yes," she replied indifferently, "he's pleasant enough. Let us go up and have a walk on
deck. I want you to be sound asleep when Julius comes in."

CHAPTER V.

John found his humane experiment pleasanter than he expected. Mr. Carling, as was to be anticipated,
demurred a little at the coffee, and still more at the cigarette; but having his appetite for
tobacco aroused, and finding that no alarming symptoms ensued, he followed it with a cigar
and later on was induced to go the length of "Scotch and soda," under the pleasant effect of
which--and John's sympathetic efforts--he was for the time transformed, the younger man being
surprised to find him a man of interesting experience, considerable reading, and, what was
most surprising, a jolly sense of humor and a fund of anecdotes which he related extremely
well. The evening was a decided success, perhaps the best evidence of it coming at the last,
when, at John's suggestion that they supplement their modest potations with a "night-cap,"
Mr. Carling cheerfully assented upon the condition that they should "have it with him"; and
as he went along the deck after saying "Good night," John was positive that he heard a whistled
tune.

The next day was equally fine, but during the night the ship had run into the swell of a storm,
and in the morning there was more motion than the weaker ones could relish. The sea grew quieter
as the day advanced. John was early, and finished his breakfast before Miss Blake came in.
He found her on deck about ten o'clock. She gave him her hand as they said good morning, and
he turned and walked by her side.

"How is your brother-in-law this morning?" he inquired.

"Oh," she said, laughing, "he's in a mixture of feeling very well and feeling that he ought
not to feel so, but, as they are coming up pretty soon, it would appear that the misgivings
are not overwhelming. He came in last night, and retired without saying a word. My sister pretended
to be asleep. She says he went to sleep at once, and that she was awake at intervals and knows
that he slept like a top. He won't make any very sweeping admissions, however, but has gone
so far as to concede that he had a very pleasant evening--which is going a long way for him--and
to say that you are a very agreeable young man. There! I didn't intend to tell you that, but
you have been so good that perhaps so much as a second-hand compliment is no more than your due."

"Thank you very much," said John. "Mr. Carling is evidently a very discriminating person. Really
it wasn't good of me at all. I was quite the gainer, for he entertained me more than I did
him. We had a very pleasant evening, and I hope we shall have more of them, I do, indeed. I
got an entirely different impression of him," he added.

"Yes," she said, "I can imagine that you did. He can be very agreeable, and he is really a
man of a great deal of character when he is himself. He has been goodness itself to me, and
has managed my affairs for years. Even to-day his judgment in business matters is wonderfully
sound. If it had not been for him," she continued, "I don't know but I should have been a pauper.
My father left a large estate, but he died very suddenly, and his affairs were very much spread
out and involved and had to be carried along. Julius put himself into the breach, and not only
saved our fortunes, but has considerably increased them. Of course, Alice is his wife, but
I feel very grateful to him on my own account. I did not altogether appreciate it at the time,
but now I shudder to think that I might have had either to 'fend for myself' or be dependent."

"I don't think that dependence would have suited your book," was John's comment as he took
in the lines of her clear-cut face.

"No," she replied, "and I thank heaven that I have not had to endure it. I am not," she added,
"so impressed with what money procures for people as what it saves them from."

"Yes," said John, "I think your distinction is just. To possess it is to be free from some
of the most disagreeable apprehensions certainly, but I confess, whether to my credit or my
shame I don't know, I have never thought much about it. I certainly am not rich positively,
and I haven't the faintest notion whether I may or not be prospectively. I have always had
as much as I really needed, and perhaps more, but I know absolutely nothing about the future."
They were leaning over the rail on the port side.

"I should think," she said after a moment, looking at him thoughtfully, "that it was, if you
will not think me presuming, a matter about which you might have some justifiable curiosity."

"Oh, not at all," he assured her, stepping to leeward and producing a cigar. "I have had some
stirrings of late. And please don't think me an incorrigible idler. I spent nearly two years
in a down-town office and earned--well, say half my salary. In fact, my business instincts
were so strong that I left college after my second year for that purpose, but seeing no special
chance of advancement in the race for wealth, and as my father seemed rather to welcome the
idea, I broke off and went over to Germany. I haven't been quite idle, though I should be puzzled,
I admit, to find a market for what I have to offer to the world. Would you be interested in
a schedule of my accomplishments."

"Oh," she said, "I should be charmed, but as I am every moment expecting the advent of my family,
and as I am relied upon to locate them and tuck them up, I'm afraid I shall not have time to
hear it."

"No," he said, laughing, "it's quite too long."

She was silent for some moments, gazing down into the water, apparently debating something
in her mind, and quite unconscious of John's scrutiny. Finally she turned to him with a little
laugh. "You might begin on your list, and if I am called away you can finish it at another time."

"I hope you didn't think I was speaking in earnest," he said.

"No," she replied, "I did not think you really intended to unpack your wares, but, speaking
seriously--and at the risk, I fear, that you may think me rather 'cheeky,' if I may be allowed
that expression--I know a good many men in America, and I think that without an exception they
are professional men or business men, or, being neither--and I know but few such--have a competence
or more; and I was wondering just now after what you told me what a man like you would or could
do if he were thrown upon his own resources. I'm afraid that is rather frank for the acquaintance
of a day, isn't it?" she asked with a slight flush, "but it really is not so personal as it
may sound to you."

"My dear Miss Blake," he replied, "our acquaintance goes back at least ten years. Please let
that fact count for something in your mind. The truth is, I have done some wondering along
that same line myself without coming to any satisfactory conclusion. I devoutly hope I may
not be so thrown absolutely, for the truth is I haven't a marketable commodity. 'A little Latin,
and less Greek,' German and French enough to read and understand and talk--on the surface of
things--and what mathematics, history, et cetera, I have not forgotten. I know the piano well
enough to read and play an accompaniment after a fashion, and I have had some good teaching
for the voice, and some experience in singing, at home and abroad. In fact, I come nearer to
a market there, I think, than in any other direction perhaps. I have given some time to fencing
in various schools, and before I left home Billy Williams would sometimes speak encouragingly
of my progress with the gloves. There! That is my list, and not a dollar in it from beginning
to end, I'm afraid."

"Who is Billy Williams?" she asked.

"Billy," said John, "is the very mild-mannered and gentlemanlike 'bouncer' at the Altman House,
an ex-prize-fighter, and about the most accomplished member of his profession of his day and
weight, who is employed to keep order and, if necessary, to thrust out the riotous who would
disturb the contemplations of the lovers of art that frequent the bar of that hotel." It was
to be seen that Miss Blake was not particularly impressed by this description of Billy and
his functions, upon which she made no comment.

"You have not included in your list," she remarked, "what you acquired in the down-town office
you told me of."

"No, upon my word I had forgotten that, and it's about the only thing of use in the whole category,"
he answered. "If I were put to it, and could find a place, I think I might earn fifty dollars
a month as a clerk or messenger, or something. Hullo! here are your people."

He went forward with his companion and greeted Mrs. Carling and her husband, who returned his
"Good morning" with a feeble smile, and submitted to his ministrations in the matter of chair
and rugs with an air of unresisting invalidism, which was almost too obvious, he thought. But
after luncheon John managed to induce him to walk for a while, to smoke a cigarette, and finally
to brave the perils of a sherry and bitters before dinner. The ladies had the afternoon to
themselves. John had no chance of a further visit with Mary during the day, a loss only partially
made good to him by a very approving smile and a remark which she made to him at dinner, that
he must be a lineal descendant of the Samaritan. Mr. Carling submitted himself to him for the
evening. Indeed, it came about that for the rest of the voyage he had rather more of the company
of that gentleman, who fairly attached himself to him, than, under all the circumstances, he
cared for; but the gratitude of the ladies was so cordial that he felt paid for some sacrifices
of his inclinations. And there was an hour or so every morning--for the fine weather lasted
through--which he spent with Mary Blake, with increasing interest and pleasure, and he found
himself inwardly rejoicing over a mishap to the engine which, though of no very great magnitude,
would retard the passage by a couple of days.

There can hardly be any conditions more favorable to the forming of acquaintanceships, friendships,
and even more tender relations than are afforded by the life on board ship. There is opportunity,
propinquity, and the community of interest which breaks down the barriers of ordinary reserve.
These relations, to be sure, are not always of the most lasting character, and not infrequently
are practically ended before the parties thereto are out of the custom-house officer's hands
and fade into nameless oblivion, unless one happens to run across the passenger list among
one's souvenirs. But there are exceptions. If at this time the question had been asked our
friend, even by himself, whether, to put it plainly, he were in love with Mary Blake, he would,
no doubt, have strenuously denied it; but it is certain that if any one had said or intimated
that any feature or characteristic of hers was faulty or susceptible of any change for the
better, he would have secretly disliked that person, and entertained the meanest opinion of
that person's mental and moral attributes. He would have liked the voyage prolonged indefinitely,
or, at any rate, as long as the provisions held out.

It has been remarked by some one that all mundane things come to an end sooner or later, and,
so far as my experience goes, it bears out that statement. The engines were successfully repaired,
and the ship eventually came to anchor outside the harbor about eleven o'clock on the night
of the last day. Mary and John were standing together at the forward rail. There had been but
little talk between them, and only of a desultory and impersonal character. As the anchor chains
rattled in the hawse-pipes, John said, "Well, that ends it."

"What ends what?" she asked.

"The voyage, and the holiday, and the episode, and lots of things," he replied. "We have come
to anchor."

"Yes," she said, "the voyage is over, that is true; but, for my part, if the last six months
can be called a holiday, its end is welcome, and I should think you might be glad that your
holiday is over, too. But I don't quite understand what you mean by 'the episode and lots of
things.'"

There was an undertone in her utterance which her companion did not quite comprehend, though
it was obvious to him.

"The episode of--of--our friendship, if I may call it so," he replied.

"I call it so," she said decisively. "You have certainly been a friend to all of us. This episode
is over to be sure, but is there any more than that?"

"Somebody says that 'friendship is largely a matter of streets,'" said John gloomily. "To-morrow
you will go your way and I shall go mine."

"Yes," she replied, rather sharply, "that is true enough; but if that cynical quotation of
yours has anything in it, it's equally true, isn't it, that friendship is a matter of cabs,
and street cars, and the elevated road? Of course, we can hardly be expected to look you up,
but Sixty-ninth Street isn't exactly in California, and the whole question lies with yourself.
I don't know if you care to be told so, but Julius and my sister like you very much, and will
welcome you heartily always."

"Thanks, very much!" said John, staring straight out in front of him, and forming a determination
that Sixty-ninth Street would see but precious little of him. She gave a side glance at him
as he did not speak further. There was light enough to see the expression of his mouth, and
she read his thought almost in words. She had thought that she had detected a suggestion of
sentimentality on his part which she intended to keep strictly in abeyance, but in her intention
not to seem to respond to it she had taken an attitude of coolness and a tone which was almost
sarcastic, and now perceived that, so far as results were apparent, she had carried matters
somewhat further than she intended. Her heart smote her a little, too, to think that he was
hurt. She really liked him very much, and contritely recalled how kind and thoughtful and unselfish
he had been, and how helpful, and she knew that it had been almost wholly for her. Yes, she
was willing--and glad--to think so. But while she wished that she had taken a different line
at the outset, she hated desperately to make any concession, and the seconds of their silence
grew into minutes. She stole another glance at his face. It was plain that negotiations for
harmony would have to begin with her. Finally she said in a quiet voice:

"'Thanks, very much,' is an entirely polite expression, but it isn't very responsive."

"I thought it met your cordiality quite half way," was the rejoinder. "Of course, I am glad
to be assured of Mr. and Mrs. Carling's regard, and that they would be glad to see me, but
I think I might have been justified in hoping that you would go a little further, don't you think?"

He looked at her as he asked the question, but she did not turn her head. Presently she said
in a low voice, and slowly, as if weighing her words:

"Will it be enough if I say that I shall be very sorry if you do not come?" He put his left
hand upon her right, which was resting on the rail, and for two seconds she let it stay.

"Yes," he said, "thanks--very--much!"

"I must go now," she said, turning toward him, and for a moment she looked searchingly in his
face. "Good night," she said, giving him her hand, and John looked after her as she walked
down the deck, and he knew how it was with him.

CHAPTER VI.

John saw Miss Blake the next morning in the saloon among the passengers in line for the customs
official. It was an easy conjecture that Mr. Carling's nerves were not up to committing himself
to a "declaration" of any sort, and that Miss Blake was undertaking the duty for the party.
He did not see her again until he had had his luggage passed and turned it over to an expressman.
As he was on his way to leave the wharf he came across the group, and stopped to greet them
and ask if he could be of service, and was told that their houseman had everything in charge,
and that they were just going to their carriage, which was waiting. "And," said Miss Blake,
"if you are going up town, we can offer you a seat."

"Sha'n't I discommode you?" he asked. "If you are sure I shall not, I shall be glad to be taken
as far as Madison Avenue and Thirty-third Street, for I suppose that will be your route."

"Quite sure," she replied, seconded by the Carlings, and so it happened that John went directly
home instead of going first to his father's office. The weather was a chilly drizzle, and he
was glad to be spared the discomfort of going about in it with hand-bag, overcoat, and umbrella,
and felt a certain justification in concluding that, after two years, a few hours more or less
under the circumstances would make but little difference. And then, too, the prospect of half
or three-quarters of an hour in Miss Blake's company, the Carlings notwithstanding, was a temptation
to be welcomed. But if he had hoped or expected, as perhaps would have been not unnatural,
to discover in that young woman's air any hint or trace of the feeling she had exhibited, or,
perhaps it should be said, to a degree permitted to show itself, disappointment was his portion.
Her manner was as much in contrast with that of the last days of their voyage together as the
handsome street dress and hat in which she was attired bore to the dress and headgear of her
steamer costume, and it almost seemed to him as if the contrasts bore some relation to each
other. After the question of the carriage windows--whether they should be up or down, either
or both, and how much--had been settled, and, as usual in such dilemmas, by Miss Blake, the
drive up town was comparatively a silent one. John's mind was occupied with sundry reflections
and speculations, of many of which his companion was the subject, and to some extent in noting
the changes in the streets and buildings which an absence of two years made noticeable to him.

Mary looked steadily out of window, lost in her own thoughts save for an occasional brief response
to some casual comment or remark of John's. Mr. Carling had muffled himself past all talking,
and his wife preserved the silence which was characteristic of her when unurged.

John was set down at Thirty-third Street, and, as he made his adieus, Mrs. Carling said, "Do
come and see us as soon as you can, Mr. Lenox"; but Miss Blake simply said "Good-by" as she
gave him her hand for an instant, and he went on to his father's house.

He let himself in with the latch-key which he had carried through all his absence, but was
at once encountered by Jeffrey, who, with his wife, had for years constituted the domestic
staff of the Lenox household.

"Well, Jeff," said John, as he shook hands heartily with the old servant, "how are you? and
how is Ann? You don't look a day older, and the climate seems to agree with you, eh?"

"You're welcome home, Mr. John," replied Jeffrey, "and thank you, sir. Me and Ann is very well,
sir. It's a pleasure to see you again and home. It is, indeed."

"Thank you, Jeff," said John. "It's rather nice to be back. Is my room ready?"

"Yes, sir," said Jeffrey, "I think it's all right, though we thought that maybe it 'd be later
in the day when you got here, sir. We thought maybe you'd go to Mr. Lenox's office first."

"I did intend to," said John, mounting the stairs, followed by Jeffrey with his bag, "but I
had a chance to drive up with some friends, and the day is so beastly that I took advantage
of it. How is my father?" he asked after entering the chamber, which struck him as being so
strangely familiar and so familiarly strange.

"Well, sir," said Jeffrey, "he's much about the same most ways, and then again he's different,
too. Seeing him every day, perhaps I wouldn't notice so much; but if I was to say that he's
kind of quieter, perhaps that'd be what I mean, sir."

"Well," said John, smiling, "my father was about the quietest person I ever knew, and if he's
grown more so--what do you mean?"

"Well, sir," replied the man, "I notice at table, sir, for one thing. We've been alone here
off and on a good bit, sir, and he used always to have a pleasant word or two to say to me,
and may be to ask me questions and that, sir; but for a long time lately he hardly seems to
notice me. Of course, there ain't any need of his saying anything, because I know all he wants,
seeing I've waited on him so long, but it's different in a way, sir."

"Does he go out in the evening to his club?" asked John.

"Very rarely, sir," said Jeffrey. "He mostly goes to his room after dinner, an' oftentimes
I hear him walking up an' down, up an' down, and, sir," he added, "you know he often used to
have some of his friends to dine with him, and that ain't happened in, I should guess, for a year."

"Have things gone wrong with him in any way?" said John, a sudden anxiety overcoming some reluctance
to question a servant on such a subject.

"You mean about business, and such like?" replied Jeffrey. "No, sir, not so far as I know.
You know, Mr. John, sir, that I pay all the house accounts, and there hasn't never been no--no
shortness, as I might say, but we're living a bit simpler than we used to--in the matter of
wine and such like--and, as I told you, we don't have comp'ny no more."

"Is that all?" asked John, with some relief.

"Well, sir," was the reply, "perhaps it's because Mr. Lenox is getting older and don't care
so much about such things, but I have noticed that he hasn't had anything new from the tailor
in a long time, and really, sir, though perhaps I oughtn't to say it, his things is getting
a bit shabby, sir, and he used to be always so partic'lar."

John got up and walked over to the window which looked out at the rear of the house. The words
of the old servant disquieted him, notwithstanding that there was nothing so far that could
not be accounted for without alarm. Jeffrey waited for a moment and then asked:

"Is there anything I can do for you, Mr. John? Will you be having luncheon here, sir?"

"No, thank you, Jeff," said John; "nothing more now, and I will lunch here. I'll come down
and see Ann presently."

"Thank you, sir," said Jeffrey, and withdrew.

The view from the back windows of most city houses is not calculated to arouse enthusiasm at
the best of times, and the day was singularly dispiriting: a sky of lead and a drizzling rain,
which emphasized the squalor of the back yards in view. It was all very depressing. Jeffrey's
talk, though inconclusive, had stirred in John's mind an uneasiness which was near to apprehension.
He turned and walked about the familiar room, recognizing the well-known furniture, his mother's
picture over the mantel, the bookshelves filled with his boyhood's accumulations, the well-remembered
pattern of the carpet, and the wall-paper--nothing was changed. It was all as he had left it
two years ago, and for the time it seemed as if he had merely dreamed the life and experiences
of those years. Indeed, it was with difficulty that he recalled any of them for the moment.
And then suddenly there came into his mind the thought that he was at the beginning of a new
epoch--that on this day his boyhood ended, for up to then he had been but a boy. The thought
was very vivid. It had come, the time when he must take upon himself the responsibilities of
his own life, and make it for himself; the time which he had looked forward to as to come some
day, but not hitherto at any particular moment, and so not to be very seriously considered.

It has been said that life had always been made easy for him, and that he had accepted the
situation without protest. To easy-going natures the thought of any radical change in the current
of affairs is usually unwelcome, but he was too young to find it really repugnant; and then,
too, as he walked about the room with his hands in his pockets, it was further revealed to
him that he had recently found a motive and impulse such as he had never had before. He recalled
the talk that he had had with the companion of his voyage. He thought of her as one who could
be tender to misfortune and charitable to incapacity, but who would have nothing but scorn
for shiftlessness and malingering; and he realized that he had never cared for anything as
for the good opinion of that young woman. No, there should be for him no more sauntering in
the vales and groves, no more of loitering or dallying. He would take his place in the working
world, and perhaps--some day--

A thought came to him with the impact of a blow: What could he do? What work was there for
him? How could he pull his weight in the boat? All his life he had depended upon some one else,
with easy-going thoughtlessness. Hardly had it ever really occurred to him that he might have
to make a career for himself. Of business he had thought as something which he should undertake
some time, but it was always a business ready made to his hand, with plenty of capital not
of his own acquiring--something for occupation, not of necessity. It came home to him that
his father was his only resource, and that of his father's affairs he knew next to nothing.

In addition to his affection for him, he had always had an unquestioning confidence in his
father. It was his earliest recollection, and he still retained it to almost a childish extent.
There had always been plenty. His own allowance, from time to time increased, though never
extravagant, had always been ample, and on the one occasion when he had grievously exceeded
it the excess had been paid with no more protest than a gentle "I think you ought not to have
done this." The two had lived together when John was at home without ostentation or any appearance
of style, but with every essential of luxury. The house and its furnishings were old-fashioned,
but everything was of the best, and when three or four of the elder man's friends would come
to dine, as happened occasionally, the contents of the cellar made them look at each other
over their glasses. Mr. Lenox was very reticent in all matters relating to himself, and in
his talks with his son, which were mostly at the table, rarely spoke of business matters in
general, and almost never of his own. He had read well, and was fond of talking of his reading
when he felt in the vein of talking, which was not always; but John had invariably found him
ready with comment and sympathy upon the topics in which he himself had interest, and there
was a strong if undemonstrative affection between the father and son.

It was not strange, perhaps, all things considered, that John had come even to nearly six-and-twenty
with no more settled intentions; that his boyhood should have been so long. He was not at all
of a reckless disposition, and, notwithstanding the desultory way in which he had spent time,
he had strong mental and moral fiber, and was capable of feeling deeply and enduringly. He
had been desultory, but never before had he had much reason or warning against it. But now,
he reflected, a time had come. Work he must, if only for work's sake, and work he would; and
there was a touch of self-reproach in the thought of his father's increasing years and of his
lonely life. He might have been a help and a companion during those two years of his not very
fruitful European sojourn, and he would lose no time in finding out what there was for him
to do, and in setting about it.

CHAPTER VII.

The day seemed very long. He ate his luncheon, having first paid a visit to Ann, who gave him
an effusive welcome. Jeffrey waited, and during the meal they had some further talk, and among
other things John said to him, "Does my father dress for dinner nowadays?"

"No, sir," was the reply, "I don't know when I've seen your father in his evenin' clothes,
sir. Not for a long time, and then maybe two or three times the past year when he was going
out to dinner, but not here, sir. Maybe it'll be different now you're back again, sir."

After luncheon John's luggage arrived, and he superintended the unpacking, but that employment
was comparatively brief. The day dragged with him. Truly his home-coming was rather a dreary
affair. How different had been yesterday, and the day before, and all those days before when
he had so enjoyed the ship life, and most of all the daily hour or more of the companionship
which had grown to be of such surpassing interest to him, and now seemed so utterly a thing
of the past.

Of course, he should see her again. (He put aside a wonder if it would be within the proprieties
on that evening or, at latest, the next.) But, in any case, "the episode," as he had said to
her, was done, and it had been very pleasant--oh, yes, very dear to him. He wondered if she
was finding the day as interminable as it seemed to him, and if the interval before they saw
each other again would seem as long as his impatience would make it for him. Finally, the restless
dullness became intolerable. He sallied forth into the weather and went to his club, having
been on non-resident footing during his absence, and, finding some men whom he knew, spent
there the rest of the afternoon.

His father was at home and in his room when John got back.

"Well, father," he said, "the prodigal has returned."

"He is very welcome," was the reply, as the elder man took both his son's hands and looked
at him affectionately. "You seem very well."

"Yes," said John; "and how are you, sir?"

"About as usual, I think," said Mr. Lenox.

They looked at each other for a moment in silence. John thought that his father seemed thinner
than formerly, and he had instantly observed that a white beard covered the always hitherto
smooth-shaven chin, but he made no comment.

"The old place appears very familiar," he remarked. "Nothing is changed or even moved, as I
can see, and Ann and Jeff are just the same old sixpences as ever."

"Yes," said his father, "two years make less difference with old people and their old habits
than with young ones. You will have changed more than we have, I fancy."

"Do we dress for dinner?" asked John, after some little more unimportant talk.

"Yes," said his father, "in honor of the occasion, if you like. I haven't done it lately,"
he added, a little wearily.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I haven't had such a glass of wine since I left home," John remarked as they sat together
after dinner.

"No," said his father, looking thoughtfully at his glass, "it's the old 'Mouton,' and pretty
nearly the last of it; it's very old and wants drinking," he observed as he held his glass
up to get the color. "It has gone off a bit even in two years."

"All right," said John cheerfully, "we'll drink it to save it, if needs be." The elder man
smiled and filled both glasses.

There had been more or less talk during the meal, but nothing of special moment. John sat back
in his chair, absently twirling the stem of his glass between thumb and fingers. Presently
he said, looking straight before him at the table: "I have been thinking a good deal of late--more
than ever before, positively, in fact--that whatever my prospects may be," (he did not see
the momentary contraction of his father's brow) "I ought to begin some sort of a career in
earnest. I'm afraid," he continued, "that I have been rather unmindful, and that I might have
been of some use to you as well as myself if I had stayed at home instead of spending the last
two years in Europe."

"I trust," said his father, "that they have not been entirely without profit."

"No," said John, "perhaps not wholly, but their cash value would not be large, I'm afraid."

"All value is not to be measured in dollars and cents," remarked Mr. Lenox. "If I could have
acquired as much German and French as I presume you have, to say nothing of other things, I
should look back upon the time as well spent at almost any cost. At your age a year or two
more or less--you don't realize it now, but you will if you come to my age--doesn't count for
so very much, and you are not too old," he smiled, "to begin at a beginning."

"I want to begin," said John.

"Yes," said his father, "I want to have you, and I have had the matter a good deal in my mind.
Have you any idea as to what you wish to do?"

"I thought," said John, "that the most obvious thing would be to go into your office." Mr.
Lenox reached over for the cigar-lamp. His cigar had gone out, and his hand shook as he applied
the flame to it. He did not reply for a moment.

"I understand," he said at last. "It would seem the obvious thing to do, as you say, but,"
he clicked his teeth together doubtfully, "I don't see how it can be managed at present, and
I don't think it is what I should desire for you in any case. The fact is," he went on, "my
business has always been a sort of specialty, and, though it is still worth doing perhaps,
it is not what it used to be. Conditions and methods have changed--and," he added, "I am too
old to change with them."

"I am not," said John.

"In fact," resumed his father, ignoring John's assertion, "as things are going now, I couldn't
make a place for you in my office unless I displaced Melig and made you my manager, and for
many reasons I couldn't do that. I am too dependent on Melig. Of course, if you came with me
it would be as a partner, but--"

"No," said John, "I should be a poor substitute for old Melig for a good while, I fancy."

"My idea would be," said Mr. Lenox, "that you should undertake a profession--say the law. It
is a fact that the great majority of men fail in business, and then most of them, for lack
of training or special aptitude, fall into the ranks of clerks and subordinates. On the other
hand, a man who has a profession--law, medicine, what not--even if he does not attain high
rank, has something on which he can generally get along, at least after a fashion, and he has
the standing. That is my view of the matter, and though I confess I often wonder at it in individual
cases, it is my advice to you."

"It would take three or four years to put me where I could earn anything to speak of," said
John, "even providing that I could get any business at the end of the time."

"Yes," said his father, "but the time of itself isn't of so much consequence. You would be
living at home, and would have your allowance--perhaps," he suggested, "somewhat diminished,
seeing that you would be here--"

"I can get on with half of it," said John confidently.

"We will settle that matter afterward," said Mr. Lenox.

They sat in silence for some minutes, John staring thoughtfully at the table, unconscious of
the occasional scrutiny of his father's glance. At last he said, "Well, sir, I will do anything
that you advise."

"Have you anything to urge against it?" asked Mr. Lenox.

"Not exactly on my own account," replied John, "though I admit that the three years or more
seems a long time to me, but I have been drawing on you exclusively all my life, except for
the little money I earned in Rush & Company's office, and--"

"You have done so, my dear boy," said his father gently, "with my acquiescence. I may have
been wrong, but that is a fact. If in my judgment the arrangement may be continued for a while
longer, and in the mean time you are making progress toward a definite end, I think you need
have no misgivings. It gratifies me to have you feel as you do, though it is no more than I
should have expected of you, for you have never caused me any serious anxiety or disappointment,
my son."

Often in the after time did John thank God for that assurance.

"Thank you, sir," he said, putting down his hand, palm upward, on the table, and his eyes filled
as the elder man laid his hand in his, and they gave each other a lingering pressure.

Mr. Lenox divided the last of the wine in the bottle between the two glasses, and they drank
it in silence, as if in pledge.

"I will go in to see Carey & Carey in the morning, and if they are agreeable you can see them
afterward," said Mr. Lenox. "They are not one of the great firms, but they have a large and
good practice, and they are friends of mine. Shall I do so?" he asked, looking at his son.

"If you will be so kind," John replied, returning his look. And so the matter was concluded.

CHAPTER VIII.

This history will not concern itself to any extent with our friend's career as a law clerk,
though, as he promised himself, he took it seriously and laboriously while it lasted, notwithstanding
that after two years of being his own master, and the rather desultory and altogether congenial
life he had led, he found it at first even more irksome than he had fancied. The novice penetrates
but slowly the mysteries of the law, and, unless he be of unusual aptitude and imagination,
the interesting and remunerative part seems for a long time very far off. But John stuck manfully
to the reading, and was diligent in all that was put upon him to do; and after a while the
days spent in the office and in the work appointed to him began to pass more quickly.

He restrained his impulse to call at Sixty-ninth Street until what seemed to him a fitting
interval had elapsed; one which was longer than it would otherwise have been, from an instinct
of shyness not habitual to him, and a distrustful apprehension that perhaps his advent was
not of so much moment to the people there as to him. But their greeting was so cordial on every
hand that Mrs. Carling's remark that they had been almost afraid he had forgotten them embarrassed
while it pleased him, and his explanations were somewhat lame. Miss Blake, as usual, came to
the rescue, though John's disconcert was not lessened by the suspicion that she saw through
his inventions. He had conceived a great opinion of that young person's penetration.

His talk for a while was mostly with Mr. Carling, who was in a pleasant mood, being, like most
nervous people, at his best in the evening. Mary made an occasional contributory remark, and
Mrs. Carling, as was her wont, was silent except when appealed to. Finally, Mr. Carling rose
and, putting out his hand, said: "I think I will excuse myself, if you will permit me. I have
had to be down town to-day, and am rather tired." Mrs. Carling followed him, saying to John
as she bade him good night: "Do come, Mr. Lenox, whenever you feel like it. We are very quiet
people, and are almost always at home."

"Thank you, Mrs. Carling," responded John, with much sincerity. "I shall be most glad to. I
am so quiet myself as to be practically noiseless."

The hall of the Carlings' house was their favorite sitting place in the evening. It ran nearly
the whole depth of the house, and had a wide fireplace at the end. The further right hand portion
was recessed by the stairway, which rose from about the middle of its length.

Miss Blake sat in a low chair, and John took its fellow at the other angle of the fireplace,
which contained the smoldering remnant of a wood fire. She had a bit of embroidery stretched
over a circular frame like a drum-head. Needlework was not a passion with her, but it was understood
in the Carling household that in course of time a set of table doilies of elaborate devices
in colored silks would be forthcoming. It has been deplored by some philosopher that custom
does not sanction such little occupations for masculine hands. It would be interesting to speculate
how many embarrassing or disastrous consequences might have been averted if at a critical point
in a negotiation or controversy a needle had had to be threaded or a dropped stitch taken up
before a reply was made, to say nothing of an excuse for averting features at times without
confession of confusion.

The great and wise Charles Reade tells how his hero, who had an island, a treasure ship, and
a few other trifles of the sort to dispose of, insisted upon Captain Fullalove's throwing away
the stick he was whittling, as giving the captain an unfair advantage. The value of the embroidered
doily as an article of table napery may be open to question, but its value, in an unfinished
state, as an adjunct to discreet conversation, is beyond all dispute.

"Ought I to say good night?" asked John with a smile, as he seated himself on the disappearance
of Mr. and Mrs. Carling.

"I don't see any reason," she replied. "It isn't late. Julius is in one of his periods of retiring
early just now. By and by he will be sure to take up the idea again that his best sleep is
after midnight. At present he is on the theory that it is before twelve o'clock."

"How has he been since your return?" John asked.

"Better in some ways, I think," she replied. "He seems to enjoy the home life in contrast with
the traveling about and living in hotels; and then, in a moderate way, he is obliged to give
some attention to business matters, and to come in contact with men and affairs generally."

"And you?" said John. "You find it pleasant to be back?"

"Yes," she said, "I do. As my sister said, we are quiet people. She goes out so little that
it is almost not at all, and when I go it has nearly always to be with some one else. And then,
you know that while Alice and I are originally New Yorkers, we have only been back here for
two or three years. Most of the people, really, to whose houses we go are those who knew my
father. But," she added, "it is a comfort not to be carrying about a traveling bag in one hand
and a weight of responsibility in the other."

"I should think," said John, laughing, "that your maid might have taken the bag, even if she
couldn't carry your responsibilities."

"No," she said, joining in his laugh, "that particular bag was too precious, and Eliza was
one of my most serious responsibilities. She had to be looked after like the luggage, and I
used to wish at times that she could be labeled and go in the van. How has it been with you
since your return? and," as she separated a needleful of silk from what seemed an inextricable
tangle, "if I may ask, what have you been doing? I was recalling," she added, putting the silk
into the needle, "some things you said to me on the Altruria. Do you remember?"

"Perfectly," said John. "I think I remember every word said on both sides, and I have thought
very often of some things you said to me. In fact, they had more influence upon my mind than
you imagined."

She turned her work so that the light would fall a little more directly upon it.

"Really?" she asked. "In what way?"

"You put in a drop or two that crystallized the whole solution," he answered. She looked up
at him inquiringly.

"Yes," he said, "I always knew that I should have to stop drifting some time, but there never
seemed to be any particular time. Some things you said to me set the time. I am under 'full
steam a-head' at present. Behold in me," he exclaimed, touching his breast, "the future chief
of the Supreme Court of the United States, of whom you shall say some time in the next brief
interval of forty years or so, 'I knew him as a young man, and one for whom no one would have
predicted such eminence!' and perhaps you will add, 'It was largely owing to me.'"

She looked at him with an expression in which amusement and curiosity were blended.

"I congratulate you," she said, laughing, "upon the career in which it appears I had the honor
to start you. Am I being told that you have taken up the law?"

"Not quite the whole of it as yet," he said; "but when I am not doing errands for the office
I am to some extent taken up with it," and then he told her of his talk with his father and
what had followed. She overcame a refractory kink in her silk before speaking.

"It takes a long time, doesn't it, and do you like it?" she asked.

"Well," said John, laughing a little, "a weaker word than 'fascinating' would describe the
pursuit, but I hope with diligence to reach some of the interesting features in the course
of ten or twelve years."

"It is delightful," she remarked, scrutinizing the pattern of her work, "to encounter such
enthusiasm."

"Isn't it?" said John, not in the least wounded by her sarcasm.

"Very much so," she replied, "but I have always understood that it is a mistake to be too sanguine."

"Perhaps I'd better make it fifteen years, then," he said, laughing. "I should have a choice
of professions by that time at any rate. You know the proverb that 'At forty every man is either
a fool or a physician.'" She looked at him with a smile. "Yes," he said, "I realize the alternative."
She laughed a little, but did not reply.

"Seriously," he continued, "I know that in everything worth accomplishing there is a lot of
drudgery to be gone through with at the first, and perhaps it seems the more irksome to me
because I have been so long idly my own master. However," he added, "I shall get down to it,
or up to it, after a while, I dare say. That is my intention, at any rate."

"I don't think I have ever wished that I were a man," she said after a moment, "but I often
find myself envying a man's opportunities."

"Do not women have opportunities, too?" he said. "Certainly they have greatly to do with the
determination of affairs."

"Oh, yes," she replied, "it is the usual answer that woman's part is to influence somebody.
As for her own life, it is largely made for her. She has, for the most part, to take what comes
to her by the will of others."

"And yet," said John, "I fancy that there has seldom been a great career in which some woman's
help or influence was not a factor."

"Even granting that," she replied, "the career was the man's, after all, and the fame and visible
reward. A man will sometimes say, 'I owe all my success to my wife, or my mother, or sister,'
but he never really believes it, nor, in fact, does any one else. It is his success, after
all, and the influence of the woman is but a circumstance, real and powerful though it may
be. I am not sure," she added, "that woman's influence, so called, isn't rather an overrated
thing. Women like to feel that they have it, and men, in matters which they hold lightly, flatter
them by yielding, but I am doubtful if a man ever arrives at or abandons a settled course or
conviction through the influence of a woman, however exerted."

"I think you are wrong," said John, "and I feel sure of so much as this: that a man might often
be or do for a woman's sake that which he would not for its sake or his own."

"That is quite another thing," she said. "There is in it no question of influence; it is one
of impulse and motive."

"I have told you to-night," said John, "that what you said to me had influenced me greatly."

"Pardon me," she replied, "you employed a figure which exactly defined your condition. You
said I supplied the drop which caused the solution to crystallize--that is, to elaborate your
illustration, that it was already at the point of saturation with your own convictions and
intentions."

"I said also," he urged, "that you had set the time for me. Is the idea unpleasant to you?"
he asked after a moment, while he watched her face. She did not at once reply, but presently
she turned to him with slightly heightened color and said, ignoring his question:

"Would you rather think that you had done what you thought right because you so thought, or
because some one else wished to have you? Or, I should say, would you rather think that the
right suggestion was another's than your own?"

He laughed a little, and said evasively: "You ought to be a lawyer, Miss Blake. I should hate
to have you cross-examine me unless I were very sure of my evidence."

She gave a little shrug of her shoulders in reply as she turned and resumed her embroidery.
They talked for a while longer, but of other things, the discussion of woman's influence having
been dropped by mutual consent.

After John's departure she suspended operations on the doily, and sat for a while gazing reflectively
into the fire. She was a person as frank with herself as with others, and with as little vanity
as was compatible with being human, which is to say that, though she was not without it, it
was of the sort which could be gratified but not flattered--in fact, the sort which flattery
wounds rather than pleases. But despite her apparent skepticism she had not been displeased
by John's assertion that she had influenced him in his course. She had expressed herself truly,
believing that he would have done as he had without her intervention; but she thought that
he was sincere, and it was pleasant to her to have him think as he did.

Considering the surroundings and conditions under which she had lived, she had had her share
of the acquaintance and attentions of agreeable men, but none of them had ever got with her
beyond the stage of mere friendliness. There had never been one whose coming she had particularly
looked forward to, or whose going she had deplored. She had thought of marriage as something
she might come to, but she had promised herself that it should be on such conditions as were,
she was aware, quite improbable of ever being fulfilled. She would not care for a man because
he was clever and distinguished, but she felt that he must be those things, and to have, besides,
those qualities of character and person which should attract her. She had known a good many
men who were clever and to some extent distinguished, but none who had attracted her personally.
John Lenox did not strike her as being particularly clever, and he certainly was not distinguished,
nor, she thought, ever very likely to be; but she had had a pleasure in being with him which
she had never experienced in the society of any other man, and underneath some boyish ways
she divined a strength and steadfastness which could be relied upon at need. And she admitted
to herself that during the ten days since her return, though she had unsparingly snubbed her
sister's wonderings why he did not call, she had speculated a good deal upon the subject herself,
with a sort of resentful feeling against both herself and him that she should care--

Her face flushed as she recalled the momentary pressure of his hand upon hers on that last
night on deck. She rang for the servant, and went up to her room.

CHAPTER IX.

It is not the purpose of this narrative to dwell minutely upon the events of the next few months.
Truth to say, they were devoid of incidents of sufficient moment in themselves to warrant chronicle.
What they led up to was memorable enough.

As time went on John found himself on terms of growing intimacy with the Carling household,
and eventually it came about that if there passed a day when their door did not open to him
it was dies non.

Mr. Carling was ostensibly more responsible than the ladies for the frequency of our friend's
visits, and grew to look forward to them. In fact, he seemed to regard them as paid primarily
to himself, and ignored an occasional suggestion on his wife's part that it might not be wholly
the pleasure of a chat and a game at cards with him that brought the young man so often to
the house. And when once she ventured to concern him with some stirrings of her mind on the
subject, he rather testily (for him) pooh-poohed her misgivings, remarking that Mary was her
own mistress, and, so far as he had ever seen, remarkably well qualified to regulate her own
affairs. Had she ever seen anything to lead her to suppose that there was any particular sentiment
existing between Lenox and her sister?

"No," said Mrs. Carling, "perhaps not exactly, but you know how those things go, and he always
stays after we come up when she is at home." To which her husband vouchsafed no reply, but
began a protracted wavering as to the advisability of leaving the steam on or turning it off
for the night, which was a cold one--a dilemma which, involving his personal welfare or comfort
at the moment, permitted no consideration of other matters to share his mind.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mrs. Carling had not spoken to her sister upon the subject. She thought that that young woman,
if she were not, as Mr. Carling said, "remarkably well qualified to regulate her own affairs,"
at least held the opinion that she was, very strongly.

The two were devotedly fond of each other, but Mrs. Carling was the elder by twenty years,
and in her love was an element of maternal solicitude to which her sister, while giving love
for love in fullest measure, did not fully respond. The elder would have liked to share every
thought, but she was neither so strong nor so clever as the girl to whom she had been almost
as a mother, and who, though perfectly truthful and frank when she was minded to express herself,
gave, as a rule, little satisfaction to attempts to explore her mind, and on some subjects
was capable of meeting such attempts with impatience, not to say resentment--a fact of which
her sister was quite aware. But as time went on, and the frequency of John's visits and attentions
grew into a settled habit, Mrs. Carling's uneasiness, with which perhaps was mingled a bit
of curiosity, got the better of her reserve, and she determined to get what satisfaction could
be obtained for it.

They were sitting in Mrs. Carling's room, which was over the drawing-room in the front of the
house. A fire of cannel blazed in the grate.

A furious storm was whirling outside. Mrs. Carling was occupied with some sort of needlework,
and her sister, with a writing pad on her lap, was composing a letter to a friend with whom
she carried on a desultory and rather one-sided correspondence. Presently she yawned slightly,
and, putting down her pad, went over to the window and looked out.

"What a day!" she exclaimed. "It seems to get worse and worse. Positively you can't see across
the street. It's like a western blizzard."

"It is, really," said Mrs. Carling; and then, moved by the current of thought which had been
passing in her mind of late, "I fancy we shall spend the evening by ourselves to-night."

"That would not be so unusual as to be extraordinary, would it?" said Mary.

"Wouldn't it?" suggested Mrs. Carling in a tone that was meant to be slightly quizzical.

"We are by ourselves most evenings, are we not?" responded her sister, without turning around.
"Why do you particularize to-night?"

"I was thinking," answered Mrs. Carling, bending a little closer over her work, "that even
Mr. Lenox would hardly venture out in such a storm unless it were absolutely necessary."

"Oh, yes, to be sure, Mr. Lenox; very likely not," was Miss Blake's comment, in a tone of indifferent
recollection.

"He comes here very often, almost every night, in fact," remarked Mrs. Carling, looking up
sideways at her sister's back.

"Now that you mention it," said Mary dryly, "I have noticed something of the sort myself."

"Do you think he ought to?" asked her sister, after a moment of silence.

"Why not?" said the girl, turning to her questioner for the first time. "And why should I think
he should or should not? Doesn't he come to see Julius, and on Julius's invitation? I have
never asked him--but once," she said, flushing a little as she recalled the occasion and the
wording of the invitation.

"Do you think," returned Mrs. Carling, "that his visits are wholly on Julius's account, and
that he would come so often if there were no other inducement? You know," she continued, pressing
her point timidly but persistently, "he always stays after we go upstairs if you are at home,
and I have noticed that when you are out he always goes before our time for retiring."

"I should say," was the rejoinder, "that that was very much the proper thing. Whether or not
he comes here too often is not for me to say--I have no opinion on the subject. But, to do
him justice, he is about the last man to wait for a tacit dismissal, or to cause you and Julius
to depart from what he knows to be your regular habit out of politeness to him. He is a person
of too much delicacy and good breeding to stay when--if--that is to say--" She turned again
to the window without completing her sentence, and, though Mrs. Carling thought she could complete
it for her, she wisely forbore. After a moment of silence, Mary said in a voice devoid of any
traces of confusion:

"You asked me if I thought Mr. Lenox would come so often if there were no object in his coming
except to see Julius. I can only say that if Julius were out of the question I think he would
come here but seldom; but," she added, as she left the window and resumed her seat, "I do not
quite see the object of this discussion, and, indeed, I am not quite sure of what we are discussing.
Do you object," she asked, looking curiously at her sister and smiling slightly, "to Mr. Lenox's
coming here as he does, and if so, why?" This was apparently more direct than Mrs. Carling
was quite prepared for. "And if you do," Mary proceeded, "what is to be done about it? Am I
to make him understand that it is not considered the proper thing? or will you? or shall we
leave it to Julius?"

Mrs. Carling looked up into her sister's face, in which was a smile of amused penetration,
and looked down again in visible embarrassment.

The young woman laughed as she shook her finger at her.

"Oh, you transparent goose!" she cried. "What did he say?"

"What did who say?" was the evasive response.

"Julius," said Mary, putting her finger under her sister's chin and raising her face. "Tell
me now. You've been talking with him, and I insist upon knowing the truth, the whole truth,
and nothing but the truth. So there!"

"Well," she admitted hesitatingly, "I said to him something like what I have to you, that it
seemed to me that Mr. Lenox came very often, and that I did not believe it was all on his account,
and that he" (won't somebody please invent another pronoun?) "always stayed when you were at
home--"

"--and," broke in her sister, "that you were afraid my young affections were being engaged,
and that, after all, we didn't know much if anything about the young man, or, perhaps, that
he was forming a hopeless attachment, and so on."

"No," said Mrs. Carling, "I didn't say that exactly. I--"

"Didn't you, really?" said Mary teasingly. "One ought to be explicit in such cases, don't you
think? Well, what did Julius say? Was he very much concerned?" Mrs. Carling's face colored
faintly under her sister's raillery, and she gave a little embarrassed laugh.

"Come, now," said the girl relentlessly, "what did he say?"

"Well," answered Mrs. Carling, "I must admit that he said 'Pooh!' for one thing, and that you
were your own mistress, and, so far as he had seen, you were very well qualified to manage
your own affairs."

Her sister clapped her hands. "Such discrimination have I not seen," she exclaimed, "no, not
in Israel! What else did he say?" she demanded, with a dramatic gesture. "Let us know the worst."

Mrs. Carling laughed a little. "I don't remember," she admitted, "that he said anything more
on the subject. He got into some perplexity about whether the steam should be off or on, and
after that question was settled we went to bed." Mary laughed outright.

"So Julius doesn't think I need watching," she said.

"Mary," protested her sister in a hurt tone, "you don't think I ever did or could watch you?
I don't want to pry into your secrets, dear," and she looked up with tears in her eyes. The
girl dropped on her knees beside her sister and put her arms about her neck.

"You precious old lamb!" she cried, "I know you don't. You couldn't pry into anybody's secrets
if you tried. You couldn't even try. But I haven't any, dear, and I'll tell you every one of
them, and, rather than see a tear in your dear eyes, I would tell John Lenox that I never wanted
to see him again; and I don't know what you have been thinking, but I haven't thought so at
all" (which last assertion made even Mrs. Carling laugh), "and I know that I have been teasing
and horrid, and if you won't put me in the closet I will be good and answer every question
like a nice little girl." Whereupon she gave her sister a kiss and resumed her seat with an
air of abject penitence which lasted for a minute. Then she laughed again, though there was
a watery gleam in her own eyes. Mrs. Carling gave her a look of great love and admiration.

"I ought not to have brought up the subject," she said, "knowing as I do how you feel about
such discussions, but I love you so much that sometimes I can't help--"

"Alice," exclaimed the girl, "please have the kindness to call me a selfish P--I--G. It will
relieve my feelings."

"But I do not think you are," said Mrs. Carling literally.

"But I am at times," declared Mary, "and you deserve not only to have, but to be shown, all
the love and confidence that I can give you. It's only this, that sometimes your solicitude
makes you imagine things that do not exist, and you think I am withholding my confidence; and
then, again, I am enough like other people that I don't always know exactly what I do think.
Now, about this matter--"

"Don't say a word about it, dear," her sister interrupted, "unless you would rather than not."

"I wish to," said Mary. "Of course I am not oblivious of the fact that Mr. Lenox comes here
very often, nor that he seems to like to stay and talk with me, because, don't you know, if
he didn't he could go when you do, and I don't mind admitting that, as a general thing, I like
to have him stay; but, as I said to you, if it weren't for Julius he would not come here very
often."

"Don't you think," said Mrs. Carling, now on an assured footing, "that if it were not for you
he would not come so often?"

Perhaps Mary overestimated the attraction which her brother-in-law had for Mr. Lenox, and she
smiled slightly as she thought that it was quite possible. "I suppose," she went on, with a
little shrug of the shoulders, "that the proceeding is not strictly conventional, and that
the absolutely correct thing would be for him to say good night when you and Julius do, and
that there are those who would regard my permitting a young man in no way related to me to
see me very often in the evening without the protection of a duenna as a very unbecoming thing."

"I never have had such a thought about it," declared Mrs. Carling.

"I never for a moment supposed you had, dear," said Mary, "nor have I. We are rather unconventional
people, making very few claims upon society, and upon whom 'society' makes very few."

"I am rather sorry for that on your account," said her sister.

"You needn't be," was the rejoinder. "I have no yearnings in that direction which are not satisfied
with what I have." She sat for a minute or two with her hands clasped upon her knee, gazing
reflectively into the fire, which, in the growing darkness of the winter afternoon, afforded
almost the only light in the room. Presently she became conscious that her sister was regarding
her with an air of expectation, and resumed: "Leaving the question of the conventions out of
the discussion as settled," she said, "there is nothing, Alice, that you need have any concern
about, either on Mr. Lenox's account or mine."

"You like him, don't you?" asked Mrs. Carling.

"Yes," said Mary frankly, "I like him very much. We have enough in common to be rather sympathetic,
and we differ enough not to be dull, and so we get on very well. I never had a brother," she
continued, after a momentary pause, "but I feel toward him as I fancy I should feel toward
a brother of about my own age, though he is five or six years older than I am."

"You don't think, then," said Mrs. Carling timidly, "that you are getting to care for him at all?"

"In the sense that you use the word," was the reply, "not the least in the world. If there
were to come a time when I really believed I should never see him again, I should be sorry;
but if at any time it were a question of six months or a year, I do not think my equanimity
would be particularly disturbed."

"And how about him?" suggested Mrs. Carling. There was no reply.

"Don't you think he may care for you, or be getting to?"

Mary frowned slightly, half closing her eyes and stirring a little uneasily in her chair.

"He hasn't said anything to me on the subject," she replied evasively.

"Would that be necessary?" asked her sister.

"Perhaps not," was the reply, "if the fact were very obvious."

"Isn't it?" persisted Mrs. Carling, with unusual tenacity.

"Well," said the girl, "to be quite frank with you, I have thought once or twice that he entertained
some such idea--that is--no, I don't mean to put it just that way. I mean that once or twice
something has occurred to give me that idea. That isn't very coherent, is it? But even if it
be so," she went on after a moment, with a wave of her hands, "what of it? What does it signify?
And if it does signify, what can I do about it?"

"You have thought about it, then?" said her sister.

"As much as I have told you," she answered. "I am not a very sentimental person, I think, and
not very much on the lookout for such things, but I know there is such a thing as a man's taking
a fancy to a young woman under circumstances which bring them often together, and I have been
led to believe that it isn't necessarily fatal to the man even if nothing comes of it. But
be that as it may," she said with a shrug of her shoulders, "what can I do about it? I can't
say to Mr. Lenox, 'I think you ought not to come here so much,' unless I give a reason for
it, and I think we have come to the conclusion that there is no reason except the danger--to
put it in so many words--of his falling in love with me. I couldn't quite say that to him,
could I?"

"No, I suppose not," acquiesced Mrs. Carling faintly.

"No, I should say not," remarked the girl. "If he were to say anything to me in the way of--declaration
is the word, isn't it?--it would be another matter. But there is no danger of that."

"Why not, if he is fond of you?" asked her sister.

"Because," said Mary, with an emphatic nod, "I won't let him," which assertion was rather weakened
by her adding, "and he wouldn't, if I would."

"I don't understand," said her sister.

"Well," said Mary, "I don't pretend to know all that goes on in his mind; but allowing, or
rather conjecturing, that he does care for me in the way you mean, I haven't the least fear
of his telling me so, and one of the reasons is this, that he is wholly dependent upon his
father, with no other prospect for years to come."

"I had the idea somehow," said Mrs. Carling, "that his father was very well-to-do. The young
man gives one the impression of a person who has always had everything that he wanted."

"I think that is so," said Mary, "but he told me one day, coming over on the steamer, that
he knew nothing whatever of his own prospects or his father's affairs. I don't remember--at
least, it doesn't matter--how he came to say as much, but he did, and afterward gave me a whimsical
catalogue of his acquirements and accomplishments, remarking, I remember, that 'there was not
a dollar in the whole list'; and lately, though you must not fancy that he discusses his own
affairs with me, he has now and then said something to make me guess that he was somewhat troubled
about them."

"Is he doing anything?" asked Mrs. Carling.

"He told me the first evening he called here," said Mary, "that he was studying law, at his
father's suggestion; but I don't remember the name of the firm in whose office he is."

"Why doesn't he ask his father about his prospects?" said Mrs. Carling.

Mary laughed. "You seem to be so much more interested in the matter than I am," she said, "why
don't you ask him yourself?" To which unjustifiable rejoinder her sister made no reply.

"I don't see why he shouldn't," she remarked.

"I think I understand," said Mary. "I fancy from what he has told me that his father is a singularly
reticent man, but one in whom his son has always had the most implicit confidence. I imagine,
too, that until recently, at any rate, he has taken it for granted that his father was wealthy.
He has not confided any misgivings to me, but if he has any he is just the sort of person not
to ask, and certainly not to press a question with his father."

"It would seem like carrying delicacy almost too far," remarked Mrs. Carling.

"Perhaps it would," said her sister, "but I think I can understand and sympathize with it."

Mrs. Carling broke the silence which followed for a moment or two as if she were thinking aloud.
"You have plenty of money," she said, and colored at her inadvertence. Her sister looked at
her for an instant with a humorous smile, and then, as she rose and touched the bell button,
said, "That's another reason."

CHAPTER X.

I think it should hardly be imputed to John as a fault or a shortcoming that he did not for
a long time realize his father's failing powers. True, as has been stated, he had noted some
changes in appearance on his return, but they were not great enough to be startling, and, though
he thought at times that his father's manner was more subdued than he had ever known it to
be, nothing really occurred to arouse his suspicion or anxiety. After a few days the two men
appeared to drop into their accustomed relation and routine, meeting in the morning and at
dinner; but as John picked up the threads of his acquaintance he usually went out after dinner,
and even when he did not his father went early to his own apartment.

From John's childhood he had been much of the time away from home, and there had never, partly
from that circumstance and partly from the older man's natural and habitual reserve, been very
much intimacy between them. The father did not give his own confidence, and, while always kind
and sympathetic when appealed to, did not ask his son's; and, loving his father well and loyally,
and trusting him implicitly, it did not occur to John to feel that there was anything wanting
in the relation. It was as it had always been. He was accustomed to accept what his father
did or said without question, and, as is very often the case, had always regarded him as an
old man. He had never felt that they could be in the same equation. In truth, save for their
mutual affection, they had little in common; and if, as may have been the case, his father
had any cravings for a closer and more intimate relation, he made no sign, acquiescing in his
son's actions as the son did in his, without question or suggestion. They did not know each
other, and such cases are not rare, more is the pity.

But as time went on even John's unwatchful eye could not fail to notice that all was not well
with his father. Haggard lines were multiplying in the quiet face, and the silence at the dinner
table was often unbroken except by John's unfruitful efforts to keep some sort of a conversation
in motion. More and more frequently it occurred that his father would retire to his own room
immediately after dinner was over, and the food on his plate would be almost untouched, while
he took more wine than had ever been his habit. John, retiring late, would often hear him stirring
uneasily in his room, and it would be plain in the morning that he had spent a wakeful, if
not a sleepless, night. Once or twice on such a morning John had suggested to his father that
he should not go down to the office, and the suggestion had been met with so irritable a negative
as to excite his wonder.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a day in the latter part of March. The winter had been unusually severe, and lingered
into spring with a heart-sickening tenacity, occasional hints of clemency and promise being
followed by recurrences which were as irritating as a personal affront.

John had held to his work in the office, if not with positive enthusiasm, at least with industry,
and thought that he had made some progress. On the day in question the managing clerk commented
briefly but favorably on something of his which was satisfactory, and, such experiences being
rare, he was conscious of a feeling of mild elation. He was also cherishing the anticipation
of a call at Sixty-ninth Street, where, for reasons unnecessary to recount, he had not been
for a week. At dinner that night his father seemed more inclined than for a long time to keep
up a conversation which, though of no special import, was cheerful in comparison with the silence
which had grown to be almost the rule, and the two men sat for a while over the coffee and
cigars. Presently, however, the elder rose from the table, saying pleasantly, "I suppose you
are going out to-night."

"Not if you'd like me to stay in," was the reply. "I have no definite engagement."

"Oh, no," said Mr. Lenox, "not at all, not at all," and as he passed his son on the way out
of the room he put out his hand and taking John's, said, "Good night."

As John stood for a moment rather taken aback, he heard his father mount the stairs to his
room. He was puzzled by the unexpected and unusual occurrence, but finally concluded that his
father, realizing how taciturn they had become of late, wished to resume their former status,
and this view was confirmed to his mind by the fact that they had been more companionable than
usual that evening, albeit that nothing of any special significance had been said.

As has been stated, a longer interval than usual had elapsed since John's last visit to Sixty-ninth
Street, a fact which had been commented on by Mr. Carling, but not mentioned between the ladies.
When he found himself at that hospitable house on that evening, he was greeted by Miss Blake alone.

"Julius did not come down to-night, and my sister is with him," she said, "so you will have
to put up with my society--unless you'd like me to send up for Alice. Julius is strictly en
retraite, I should say."

"Don't disturb her, I beg," protested John, laughing, and wondering a bit at the touch of coquetry
in her speech, something unprecedented in his experience of her, "if you are willing to put
up with my society. I hope Mr. Carling is not ill?"

They seated themselves as she replied: "No, nothing serious, I should say. A bit of a cold,
I fancy; and for a fortnight he has been more nervous than usual. The changes in the weather
have been so great and so abrupt that they have worn upon his nerves. He is getting very uneasy
again. Now, after spending the winter, and when spring is almost at hand, I believe that if
he could make up his mind where to go he would be for setting off to-morrow."

"Really?" said John, in a tone of dismay.

"Quite so," she replied with a nod.

"But," he objected, "it seems too late or too early. Spring may drop in upon us any day. Isn't
this something very recent?"

"It has been developing for a week or ten days," she answered, "and symptoms have indicated
a crisis for some time. In fact," she added, with a little vexed laugh, "we have talked of
nothing for a week but the advantages and disadvantages of Florida, California, North Carolina,
South Carolina, and Virginia at large; besides St. Augustine, Monterey, Santa Barbara, Aiken,
Asheville, Hot Springs, Old Point Comfort, Bermuda, and I don't know how many other places,
not forgetting Atlantic City and Lakewood, and only not Barbadoes and the Sandwich Islands
because nobody happened to think of them. Julius," remarked Miss Blake, "would have given a
forenoon to the discussion of the two latter places as readily as to any of the others."

"Can't you talk him along into warm weather?" suggested John, with rather a mirthless laugh.
"Don't you think that if the weather were to change for good, as it's likely to do almost any
time now, he might put off going till the usual summer flitting?"

"The change in his mind will have to come pretty soon if I am to retain my mental faculties,"
she declared. "He might possibly, but I am afraid not," she said, shaking her head. "He has
the idea fixed in his mind, and considerations of the weather here, while they got him started,
are not now so much the question. He has the moving fever, and I am afraid it will have to
run its course. I think," she said, after a moment, "that if I were to formulate a special
anathema, it would be, 'May traveling seize you!'"

"Or restlessness," suggested John.

"Yes," she said, "that's more accurate, perhaps, but it doesn't sound quite so smart. Julius
is in that state of mind when the only place that seems desirable is somewhere else."

"Of course you will have to go," said John mournfully.

"Oh, yes," she replied, with an air of compulsory resignation. "I shall not only have to go,
of course, but I shall probably have to decide where in order to save my mind. But it will
certainly be somewhere, so I might as well be packing my trunks."

"And you will be away indefinitely, I suppose?"

"Yes, I imagine so."

"Dear me!" John ejaculated in a dismal tone.

They were sitting as described on a former occasion, and the young woman was engaged upon the
second (perhaps the third, or even the fourth) of the set of doilies to which she had committed
herself. She took some stitches with a composed air, without responding to her companion's
exclamation.

"I'm awfully sorry," he said presently, leaning forward with his elbows on his knees, his hands
hanging in an attitude of unmistakable dejection, and staring fixedly into the fire.

"I am very sorry myself," she said, bending her head a little closer over her work. "I think
I like being in New York in the spring better than at any other time; and I don't at all fancy
the idea of living in my trunks again for an indefinite period."

"I shall miss you horribly," he said, turning his face toward her.

Her eyes opened with a lift of the brows, but whether the surprise so indicated was quite genuine
is a matter for conjecture.

"Yes," he declared desperately, "I shall, indeed."

"I should fancy you must have plenty of other friends," she said, flushing a little, "and I
have wondered sometimes whether Julius's demands upon you were not more confident than warrantable,
and whether you wouldn't often rather have gone elsewhere than to come here to play cards with
him." She actually said this as if she meant it.

"Do you suppose--" he exclaimed, and checked himself. "No," he said, "I have come because--well,
I've been only too glad to come, and--I suppose it has got to be a habit," he added, rather
lamely. "You see, I've never known any people in the way I have known you. It has seemed to
me more like home life than anything I've ever known. There has never been any one but my father
and I, and you can have no idea what it has been to me to be allowed to come here as I have,
and--oh, you must know--" He hesitated, and instantly she advanced her point.

Her face was rather white, and the hand which lay upon the work in her lap trembled a little,
while she clasped the arm of the chair with the other; but she broke in upon his hesitation
with an even voice:

"It has been very pleasant for us all, I'm sure," she said, "and, frankly, I'm sorry that it
must be interrupted for a while, but that is about all there is of it, isn't it? We shall probably
be back not later than October, I should say, and then you can renew your contests with Julius
and your controversies with me."

Her tone and what she said recalled to him their last night on board the ship, but there was
no relenting on this occasion. He realized that for a moment he had been on the verge of telling
the girl that he loved her, and he realized, too, that she had divined his impulse and prevented
the disclosure; but he registered a vow that he would know before he saw her again whether
he might consistently tell her his love, and win or lose upon the touch.

Miss Blake made several inaccurate efforts to introduce her needle at the exact point desired,
and when that endeavor was accomplished broke the silence by saying, "Speaking of 'October,'
have you read the novel? I think it is charming."

"Yes," said John, with his vow in his mind, but not sorry for the diversion, "and I enjoyed
it very much. I thought it was immensely clever, but I confess that I didn't quite sympathize
with the love affairs of a hero who was past forty, and I must also confess that I thought
the girl was, well--to put it in plain English--a fool."

Mary laughed, with a little quaver in her voice. "Do you know," she said, "that sometimes it
seems to me that I am older than you are?"

"I know you're awfully wise," said John with a laugh, and from that their talk drifted off
into the safer channels of their usual intercourse until he rose to say good night.

"Of course, we shall see you again before we go," she said as she gave him her hand.

"Oh," he declared, "I intend regularly to haunt the place."

CHAPTER XI.

When John came down the next morning his father, who was, as a rule, the most punctual of men,
had not appeared. He opened the paper and sat down to wait. Ten minutes passed, fifteen, twenty.
He rang the bell. "Have you heard my father this morning?" he said to Jeffrey, remembering
for the first time that he himself had not.

"No, sir," said the man. "He most generally coughs a little in the morning, but I don't think
I heard him this morning, sir."

"Go up and see why he doesn't come down," said John, and a moment later he followed the servant
upstairs, to find him standing at the chamber door with a frightened face.

"He must be very sound asleep, sir," said Jeffrey. "He hasn't answered to my knockin' or callin',
sir." John tried the door. He found the chain bolt on, and it opened but a few inches. "Father!"
he called, and then again, louder. He turned almost unconsciously to Jeffrey, and found his
own apprehensions reflected in the man's face. "We must break in the door," he said. "Now,
together!" and the bolt gave way.

His father lay as if asleep. "Go for the doctor at once! Bring him back with you. Run!" he
cried to the servant. Custom and instinct said, "Send for the doctor," but he knew in his heart
that no ministrations would ever reach the still figure on the bed, upon which, for the moment,
he could not look. It was but a few minutes (how long such minutes are!) before the doctor
came--Doctor Willis, who had brought John into the world, and had been a lifelong friend of
both father and son. He went swiftly to the bed without speaking, and made a brief examination,
while John watched him with fascinated eyes; and as the doctor finished, the son dropped on
his knees by the bed, and buried his face in it. The doctor crossed the room to Jeffrey, who
was standing in the door with an awe-stricken face, and in a low voice gave him some directions.
Then, as the man departed, he first glanced at the kneeling figure and then looked searchingly
about the room. Presently he went over to the grate in which were the ashes of an extinct fire,
and, taking the poker, pressed down among them and covered over a three or four ounce vial.
He had found what he was looking for.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is no need to speak of the happenings of the next few days, nor is it necessary to touch
at any length upon the history of some of the weeks and months which ensued upon this crisis
in John Lenox's life, a time when it seemed to him that everything he had ever cared for had
been taken. And yet, with that unreason which may perhaps be more easily understood than accounted
for, the one thing upon which his mind most often dwelt was that he had had no answer to his
note to Mary Blake. We know what happened to her missive. It turned up long afterward in the
pocket of Master Jacky Carling's overcoat; so long afterward that John, so far as Mary was
concerned, had disappeared altogether. The discovery of Jacky's dereliction explained to her,
in part at least, why she had never seen him or heard from him after that last evening at Sixty-ninth
Street. The Carlings went away some ten days later, and she did, in fact, send another note
to his house address, asking him to see them before their departure; but John had considered
himself fortunate in getting the house off his hands to a tenant who would assume the lease
if given possession at once, and had gone into the modest apartment which he occupied during
the rest of his life in the city, and so the second communication failed to reach him. Perhaps
it was as well. Some weeks later he walked up to the Carlings' house one Sunday afternoon,
and saw that it was closed, as he had expected. By an impulse which was not part of his original
intention--which was, indeed, pretty nearly aimless--he was moved to ring the doorbell; but
the maid, a stranger to him, who opened the door could tell him nothing of the family's whereabouts,
and Mr. Betts (the house man in charge) was "hout." So John retraced his steps with a feeling
of disappointment wholly disproportionate to his hopes or expectations so far as he had defined
them to himself, and never went back again.

       *       *       *       *       *

He has never had much to say of the months that followed.

It came to be the last of October. An errand from the office had sent him to General Wolsey,
of the Mutual Trust Company, of whom mention has been made by David Harum. The general was
an old friend of the elder Lenox, and knew John well and kindly. When the latter had discharged
his errand and was about to go, the general said: "Wait a minute. Are you in a hurry? If not,
I want to have a little talk with you."

"Not specially," said John.

"Sit down," said the general, pointing to a chair. "What are your plans? I see you are still
in the Careys' office, but from what you told me last summer I conclude that you are there
because you have not found anything more satisfactory."

"That is the case, sir," John replied. "I can't be idle, but I don't see how I can keep on
as I am going now, and I have been trying for months to find something by which I can earn
a living. I am afraid," he added, "that it will be a longer time than I can afford to wait
before I shall be able to do that out of the law."

"If you don't mind my asking," said the general, "what are your resources? I don't think you
told me more than to give me to understand that your father's affairs were at a pretty low
ebb. Of course, I do not wish to pry into your affairs--"

"Not at all," John interposed; "I am glad to tell you, and thank you for your interest. I have
about two thousand dollars, and there is some silver and odds and ends of things stored. I
don't know what their value might be--not very much, I fancy--and there were a lot of mining
stocks and that sort of thing which have no value so far as I can find out--no available value,
at any rate. There is also a tract of half-wild land somewhere in Pennsylvania. There is coal
on it, I believe, and some timber; but Melig, my father's manager, told me that all the large
timber had been cut. So far as available value is concerned, the property is about as much
of an asset as the mining stock, with the disadvantage that I have to pay taxes on it."

"H'm," said the general, tapping the desk with his eyeglasses. "H'm--well, I should think if
you lived very economically you would have about enough to carry you through till you can be
admitted, provided you feel that the law is your vocation," he added, looking up.

"It was my father's idea," said John, "and if I were so situated that I could go on with it,
I would. But I am so doubtful with regard to my aptitude that I don't feel as if I ought to
use up what little capital I have, and some years of time, on a doubtful experiment, and so
I have been looking for something else to do."

"Well," said the general, "if you were very much interested--that is, if you were anxious to
proceed with your studies--I should advise you to go on, and at a pinch I should be willing
to help you out; but, feeling as you do, I hardly know what to advise. I was thinking of you,"
he went on, "before you came in, and was intending to send for you to come in to see me." He
took a letter from his desk.

"I got this yesterday," he said. "It is from an old acquaintance of mine by the name of Harum,
who lives in Homeville, Freeland County. He is a sort of a banker there, and has written me
to recommend some one to take the place of his manager or cashier whom he is sending away.
It's rather a queer move, I think, but then," said the general with a smile, "Harum is a queer
customer in some ways of his own. There is his letter. Read it for yourself."

The letter stated that Mr. Harum had had some trouble with his cashier and wished to replace
him, and that he would prefer some one from out of the village who wouldn't know every man,
woman, and child in the whole region, and "blab everything right and left." "I should want,"
wrote Mr. Harum, "to have the young man know something about bookkeeping and so on, but I should
not insist upon his having been through a trainer's hands. In fact, I would rather break him
in myself, and if he's willing and sound and no vice, I can get him into shape. I will pay
a thousand to start on, and if he draws and travels all right, may be better in the long run,"
etc. John handed back the letter with a slight smile, which was reflected in the face of the
general. "What do you think of it?" asked the latter.

"I should think it might be very characteristic," remarked John.

"Yes," said the general, "it is, to an extent. You see he writes pretty fair English, and he
can, on occasion, talk as he writes, but usually, either from habit or choice, he uses the
most unmitigated dialect. But what I meant to ask you was, what do you think of the proposal?"

"You mean as an opportunity for me?" asked John.

"Yes," said General Wolsey, "I thought of you at once."

"Thank you very much," said John. "What would be your idea?"

"Well," was the reply, "I am inclined to think I should write to him if I were you, and I will
write to him about you if you so decide. You have had some office experience, you told me--enough,
I should say, for a foundation, and I don't believe that Harum's books and accounts are very
complicated."

John did not speak, and the general went on: "Of course, it will be a great change from almost
everything you have been used to, and I dare say that you may find the life, at first at least,
pretty dull and irksome. The stipend is not very large, but it is large for the country, where
your expenses will be light. In fact, I'm rather surprised at his offering so much. At any
rate, it is a living for the present, and may lead to something better. The place is a growing
one, and, more than that, Harum is well off, and keeps more irons in the fire than one, and
if you get on with him you may do well."

"I don't think I should mind the change so much," said John, rather sadly. "My present life
is so different in almost every way from what it used to be, and I think I feel it in New York
more even than I might in a country village; but the venture seems a little like burning my
bridges."

"Well," replied the general, "if the experiment should turn out a failure for any reason, you
won't be very much more at a loss than at present, it seems to me, and, of course, I will do
anything I can should you wish me to be still on the lookout for you here."

"You are exceedingly kind, sir," said John earnestly, and then was silent for a moment or two.
"I will make the venture," he said at length, "and thank you very much."

"You are under no special obligations to the Careys, are you?" asked the general.

"No, I think not," said John with a laugh. "I fancy that their business will go on without
me, after a fashion," and he took his leave.

CHAPTER XII.

And so it came about that certain letters were written as mentioned in a previous chapter,
and in the evening of a dripping day early in November John Lenox found himself, after a nine
hours' journey, the only traveler who alighted upon the platform of the Homeville station,
which was near the end of a small lake and about a mile from the village. As he stood with
his bag and umbrella, at a loss what to do, he was accosted by a short and stubby individual
with very black eyes and hair and a round face, which would have been smooth except that it
had not been shaved for a day or two. "Goin' t' the village?" he said.

"Yes," said John, "that is my intention, but I don't see any way of getting there."

"Carry ye over fer ten cents," said the man. "Carryall's right back the deepo. Got 'ny baggidge?"

"Two trunks," said John.

"That'll make it thirty cents," said the native. "Where's your checks? All right; you c'n jest
step 'round an' git in. Mine's the only rig that drew over to-night."

It was a long clumsy affair, with windows at each end and a door in the rear, but open at the
sides except for enamel cloth curtains, which were buttoned to the supports that carried a
railed roof extending as far forward as the dashboard. The driver's seat was on a level with
those inside. John took a seat by one of the front windows, which was open but protected by
the roof.

His luggage having been put on board, they began the journey at a walk, the first part of the
road being rough and swampy in places, and undergoing at intervals the sort of repairs which
often prevails in rural regions--namely, the deposit of a quantity of broken stone, which is
left to be worn smooth by passing vehicles, and is for the most part carefully avoided by such
whenever the roadway is broad enough to drive round the improvement. But the worst of the way
having been accomplished, the driver took opportunity, speaking sideways over his shoulder,
to allay the curiosity which burned within him, "Guess I never seen you before." John was tired
and hungry, and generally low in his mind.

"Very likely not," was his answer. Mr. Robinson instantly arrived at the determination that
the stranger was "stuck up," but was in no degree cast down thereby.

"I heard Chet Timson tellin' that the' was a feller comin' f'm N'York to work in Dave Harum's
bank. Guess you're him, ain't ye?"

No answer this time: theory confirmed.

"My name's Robinson," imparted that individual. "I run the prince'ple liv'ry to Homeville."

"Ah!" responded the passenger.

"What d'you say your name was?" asked Mr. Robinson, after he had steered his team around one
of the monuments to public spirit.

"It's Lenox," said John, thinking he might concede something to such deserving perseverance,
"but I don't remember mentioning it."

"Now I think on't, I guess you didn't," admitted Mr. Robinson. "Don't think I ever knowed anybody
of the name," he remarked. "Used to know some folks name o' Lynch, but they couldn't 'a' ben
no relations o' your'n, I guess." This conjecture elicited no reply.

"Git up, goll darn ye!" he exclaimed, as one of the horses stumbled, and he gave it a jerk
and a cut of the whip. "Bought that hoss of Dave Harum," he confided to his passenger. "Fact,
I bought both on 'em of him, an' dum well stuck I was, too," he added.

"You know Mr. Harum, then," said John, with a glimmer of interest. "Does he deal in horses?"

"Wa'al, I guess I make eout to know him," asserted the "prince'ple liv'ryman," "an' he'll git
up 'n the middle o' the night any time to git the best of a hoss trade. Be you goin' to work
fer him?" he asked, encouraged to press the question. "Goin' to take Timson's place?"

"Really," said John, in a tone which advanced Mr. Robinson's opinion to a rooted conviction,
"I have never heard of Mr. Timson."

"He's the feller that Dave's lettin' go," explained Mr. Robinson. "He's ben in the bank a matter
o' five or six year, but Dave got down on him fer some little thing or other, an' he's got
his walkin' papers. He says to me, says he, 'If any feller thinks he c'n come up here f'm N'York
or anywheres else, he says, 'an' do Dave Harum's work to suit him, he'll find he's bit off
a dum sight more'n he c'n chaw. He'd better keep his gripsack packed the hull time,' Chet says."

"I thought I'd sock it to the cuss a little," remarked Mr. Robinson in recounting the conversation
subsequently; and, in truth, it was not elevating to the spirits of our friend, who found himself
speculating whether or no Timson might not be right.

"Where you goin' to put up?" asked Mr. Robinson after an interval, having failed to draw out
any response to his last effort.

"Is there more than one hotel?" inquired the passenger.

"The's the Eagle, an' the Lake House, an' Smith's Hotel," replied Jehu.

"Which would you recommend?" asked John.

"Wa'al," said Robinson, "I don't gen'ally praise up one more'n another. You see, I have more
or less dealin' with all on 'em."

"That's very diplomatic of you, I'm sure," remarked John, not at all diplomatically. "I think
I will try the Eagle."

Mr. Robinson, in his account of the conversation, said in confidence--not wishing to be openly
invidious--that "he was dum'd if he wa'n't almost sorry he hadn't recommended the Lake House."

It may be inferred from the foregoing that the first impression which our friend made on his
arrival was not wholly in his favor, and Mr. Robinson's conviction that he was "stuck up,"
and a person bound to get himself "gen'ally disliked," was elevated to an article of faith
by his retiring to the rear of the vehicle, and quite out of ordinary range. But they were
nearly at their journey's end, and presently the carryall drew up at the Eagle Hotel.

It was a frame building of three stories, with a covered veranda running the length of the
front, from which two doors gave entrance--one to the main hall, the other to the office and
bar combined. This was rather a large room, and was also to be entered from the main hall.

John's luggage was deposited, Mr. Robinson was settled with, and took his departure without
the amenities which might have prevailed under different conditions, and the new arrival made
his way into the office.

Behind the bar counter, which faced the street, at one end of which was a small high desk and
at the other a glazed case containing three or four partly full boxes of forlorn-looking cigars,
but with most ambitious labels, stood the proprietor, manager, clerk, and what not of the hostelry,
embodied in the single person of Mr. Amos Elright, who was leaning over the counter in conversation
with three or four loungers who sat about the room with their chairs tipped back against the wall.

A sketch of Mr. Elright would have depicted a dull "complected" person of a tousled baldness,
whose dispirited expression of countenance was enhanced by a chin whisker. His shirt and collar
gave unmistakable evidence that pajamas or other night-gear were regarded as superfluities,
and his most conspicuous garment as he appeared behind the counter was a cardigan jacket of
a frowsiness beyond compare. A greasy neck scarf was embellished with a gem whose truthfulness
was without pretence. The atmosphere of the room was accounted for by a remark which was made
by one of the loungers as John came in. "Say, Ame," the fellow drawled, "I guess the' was more
skunk cabbidge 'n pie plant 'n usual 'n that last lot o' cigars o' your'n, wa'n't the'?" to
which insinuation "Ame" was spared the necessity of a rejoinder by our friend's advent.

"Wa'al, guess we c'n give ye a room. Oh, yes, you c'n register if you want to. Where is the
dum thing? I seen it last week somewhere. Oh, yes," producing a thin book ruled for accounts
from under the counter, "we don't alwus use it," he remarked--which was obvious, seeing that
the last entry was a month old.

John concluded that it was a useless formality. "I should like something to eat," he said,
"and desire to go to my room while it is being prepared; and can you send my luggage up now?"

"Wa'al," said Mr. Elright, looking at the clock, which showed the hour of half-past nine, and
rubbing his chin perplexedly, "supper's ben cleared off some time ago."

"I don't want very much," said John; "just a bit of steak, and some stewed potatoes, and a
couple of boiled eggs, and some coffee." He might have heard the sound of a slap in the direction
of one of the sitters.

"I'm 'fraid I can't 'commodate ye fur's the steak an' things goes," confessed the landlord.
"We don't do much cookin' after dinner, an' I reckon the fire's out anyway. P'r'aps," he added
doubtfully, "I c'd hunt ye up a piece o' pie 'n some doughnuts, or somethin' like that."

He took a key, to which was attached a huge brass tag with serrated edges, from a hook on a
board behind the bar--on which were suspended a number of the like--lighted a small kerosene
lamp, carrying a single wick, and, shuffling out from behind the counter, said, "Say, Bill,
can't you an' Dick carry the gentleman's trunks up to 'thirteen?'" and, as they assented, he
gave the lamp and key to one of them and left the room. The two men took a trunk at either
end and mounted the stairs, John following, and when the second one came up he put his fingers
into his waistcoat pocket suggestively.

"No," said the one addressed as Dick, "that's all right. We done it to oblige Ame."

"I'm very much obliged to you, though," said John.

"Oh, that's all right," remarked Dick as they turned away.

John surveyed the apartment. There were two small-paned windows overlooking the street, curtained
with bright "Turkey-red" cotton; near to one of them a small wood stove and a wood box, containing
some odds and ends of sticks and bits of bark; a small chest of drawers, serving as a washstand;
a malicious little looking-glass; a basin and ewer, holding about two quarts; an earthenware
mug and soap-dish, the latter containing a thin bit of red translucent soap scented with sassafras;
an ordinary wooden chair and a rocking-chair with rockers of divergent aims; a yellow wooden
bedstead furnished with a mattress of "excelsior" (calculated to induce early rising), a dingy
white spread, a gray blanket of coarse wool, a pair of cotton sheets which had too obviously
done duty since passing through the hands of the laundress, and a pair of flabby little pillows
in the same state, in respect to their cases, as the sheets. On the floor was a much used and
faded ingrain carpet, in one place worn through by the edge of a loose board. A narrow strip
of unpainted pine nailed to the wall carried six or seven wooden pegs to serve as wardrobe.
Two diminutive towels with red borders hung on the rail of the washstand, and a battered tin
slop jar, minus a cover, completed the inventory.

"Heavens, what a hole!" exclaimed John, and as he performed his ablutions (not with the sassafras
soap) he promised himself a speedy flitting. There came a knock at the door, and his host appeared
to announce that his "tea" was ready, and to conduct him to the dining-room--a good-sized apartment,
but narrow, with a long table running near the center lengthwise, covered with a cloth which
bore the marks of many a fray. Another table of like dimensions, but bare, was shoved up against
the wall. Mr. Elright's ravagement of the larder had resulted in a triangle of cadaverous apple
pie, three doughnuts, some chunks of soft white cheese, and a plate of what are known as oyster
crackers.

"I couldn't git ye no tea," he said. "The hired girls both gone out, an' my wife's gone to
bed, an' the' wa'n't no fire anyway."

"I suppose I could have some beer," suggested John, looking dubiously at the banquet.

"We don't keep no ale," said the proprietor of the Eagle, "an' I guess we're out o' lawger.
I ben intendin' to git some more," he added.

"A glass of milk?" proposed the guest, but without confidence.

"Milkman didn't come to-night," said Mr. Elright, shuffling off in his carpet slippers, worn
out in spirit with the importunities of the stranger. There was water on the table, for it
had been left there from supper time. John managed to consume a doughnut and some crackers
and cheese, and then went to his room, carrying the water pitcher with him, and, after a cigarette
or two and a small potation from his flask, to bed. Before retiring, however, he stripped the
bed with the intention of turning the sheets, but upon inspection thought better of it, and
concluded to leave them as they were. So passed his first night in Homeville, and, as he fondly
promised himself, his last at the Eagle Hotel.

When Bill and Dick returned to the office after "obligin' Ame," they stepped with one accord
to the counter and looked at the register. "Why, darn it," exclaimed Bill, "he didn't sign
his name, after all."

"No," said Dick, "but I c'n give a putty near guess who he is, all the same."

"Some drummer?" suggested Bill.

"Naw," said Richard scornfully. "What 'd a drummer be doin' here this time o' year? That's
the feller that's ousted Chet Timson, an' I'll bet ye the drinks on't. Name's Linx or Lenx,
or somethin' like that. Dave told me."

"So that's the feller, is it?" said Bill. "I guess he won't stay 'round here long. I guess
you'll find he's a little too toney fer these parts, an' in pertic'ler fer Dave Harum. Dave'll
make him feel 'bout as comf'table as a rooster in a pond. Lord," he exclaimed, slapping his
leg with a guffaw, "'d you notice Ame's face when he said he didn't want much fer supper, only
beefsteak, an' eggs, an' tea, an' coffee, an' a few little things like that? I thought I'd split."

"Yes," said Dick, laughing, "I guess the' ain't nothin' the matter with Ame's heart, or he'd
'a' fell down dead.--Hullo, Ame!" he said when the gentleman in question came back after ministering
to his guest, "got the Prince o' Wales fixed up all right? Did ye cut that pickled el'phant
that come last week?"

"Huh!" grunted Amos, whose sensibilities had been wounded by the events of the evening, "I
didn't cut no el'phant ner no cow, ner rob no hen roost neither, but I guess he won't starve
'fore mornin'," and with that he proceeded to fill up the stove and shut the dampers.

"That means 'git,' I reckon," remarked Bill as he watched the operation.

"Wa'al," said Mr. Elright, "if you fellers think you've spent enough time droolin' 'round here
swapping lies, I think I'll go to bed," which inhospitable and injurious remark was by no means
taken in bad part, for Dick said, with a laugh:

"Well, Ame, if you'll let me run my face for 'em, Bill 'n I'll take a little somethin' for
the good o' the house before we shed the partin' tear." This proposition was not declined by
Mr. Elright, but he felt bound on business principles not to yield with too great a show of
readiness.

"Wa'al, I don't mind for this once," he said, going behind the bar and setting out a bottle
and glasses, "but I've gen'ally noticed that it's a damn sight easier to git somethin' into
you fellers 'n 't is to git anythin' out of ye."

CHAPTER XIII.

The next morning at nine o'clock John presented himself at Mr. Harum's banking office, which
occupied the first floor of a brick building some twenty or twenty-five feet in width. Besides
the entrance to the bank, there was a door at the south corner opening upon a stairway leading
to a suite of two rooms on the second floor.

The banking office consisted of two rooms--one in front, containing the desks and counters,
and what may be designated as the "parlor" (as used to be the case in the provincial towns)
in the rear, in which were Mr. Harum's private desk, a safe of medium size, the necessary assortment
of chairs, and a lounge. There was also a large Franklin stove.

The parlor was separated from the front room by a partition, in which were two doors, one leading
into the inclosed space behind the desks and counters, and the other into the passageway formed
by the north wall and a length of high desk, topped by a railing. The teller's or cashier's
counter faced the street opposite the entrance door. At the left of this counter (viewed from
the front) was a high-standing desk, with a rail. At the right was a glass-inclosed space of
counter of the same height as that portion which was open, across which latter the business
of paying and receiving was conducted.

As John entered he saw standing behind this open counter, framed, as it were, between the desk
on the one hand, and the glass inclosure on the other, a person whom he conjectured to be the
"Chet" (short for Chester) Timson of whom he had heard. This person nodded in response to our
friend's "Good morning," and anticipated his inquiry by saying:

"You lookin' for Dave?"

"I am looking for Mr. Harum," said John. "Is he in the office?"

"He hain't come in yet," was the reply. "Up to the barn, I reckon, but he's liable to come
in any minute, an' you c'n step into the back room an' wait fer him," indicating the direction
with a wave of his hand.

Business had not begun to be engrossing, though the bank was open, and John had hardly seated
himself when Timson came into the back room and, taking a chair where he could see the counter
in the front office, proceeded to investigate the stranger, of whose identity he had not the
smallest doubt. But it was not Mr. Timson's way to take things for granted in silence, and
it must be admitted that his curiosity in this particular case was not without warrant. After
a scrutiny of John's face and person, which was not brief enough to be unnoticeable, he said,
with a directness which left nothing in that line to be desired, "I reckon you're the new man
Dave's ben gettin' up from the city."

"I came up yesterday," admitted John.

"My name's Timson," said Chet.

"Happy to meet you," said John, rising and putting out his hand. "My name is Lenox," and they
shook hands--that is, John grasped the ends of four limp fingers. After they had subsided into
their seats, Chet's opaquely bluish eyes made another tour of inspection, in curiosity and wonder.

"You alwus lived in the city?" he said at last.

"It has always been my home," was the reply.

"What put it in your head to come up here?" with another stare.

"It was at Mr. Harum's suggestion," replied John, not with perfect candor; but he was not minded
to be drawn out too far.

"D'ye know Dave?"

"I have never met him." Mr. Timson looked more puzzled than ever.

"Ever ben in the bankin' bus'nis?"

"I have had some experience of such accounts in a general way."

"Ever keep books?"

"Only as I have told you," said John, smiling at the little man.

"Got any idee what you'll have to do up here?" asked Chet.

"Only in a general way."

"Wa'al," said Mr. Timson, "I c'n tell ye; an', what's more, I c'n tell ye, young man, 't you
hain't no idee of what you're undertakin', an' ef you don't wish you was back in New York 'fore
you git through I ain't no guesser."

"That is possible," said John readily, recalling his night and his breakfast that morning.

"Yes, sir," said the other. "Yes, sir; if you do what I've had to do, you'll do the hull darned
thing, an' nobody to help you but Pele Hopkins, who don't count fer a row o' crooked pins.
As fer's Dave's concerned," asserted the speaker with a wave of his hands, "he don't know no
more about bankin' 'n a cat. He couldn't count a thousan' dollars in an hour, an', as for addin'
up a row o' figures, he couldn't git it twice alike, I don't believe, if he was to be hung for't."

"He must understand the meaning of his own books and accounts, I should think," remarked John.

"Oh," said Chet scornfully, "anybody c'd do that. That's easy 'nough; but as fur 's the real
bus'nis is concerned, he don't have nothin' to do with it. It's all ben left to me: chargin'
an' creditin', postin', individule ledger, gen'ral ledger, bill-book, discount register, tickler,
for'n register, checkin' off the N'York accounts, drawin' off statemunts f'm the ledgers an'
bill-book, writin' letters--why, the' ain't an hour 'n the day in bus'nis hours some days that
the's an hour 't I ain't busy 'bout somethin'. No, sir," continued Chet, "Dave don't give himself
no trouble about the bus'nis. All he does is to look after lendin' the money, an' seein' that
it gits paid when the time comes, an' keep track of how much money the' is here an' in N'York,
an' what notes is comin' due--an' a few things like that, that don't put pen to paper, ner
take an hour of his time. Why, a man'll come in an' want to git a note done, an' it'll be 'All
right,' or, 'Can't spare the money to-day,' all in a minute. He don't give it no thought at
all, an' he ain't 'round here half the time. Now," said Chet, "when I work fer a man I like
to have him 'round so 't I c'n say to him: 'Shall I do it so? or shall I do it so? shall I?
or sha'n't I?' an' then when I make a mistake--'s anybody's liable to--he's as much to blame
's I be."

"I suppose, then," said John, "that you must have to keep Mr. Harum's private accounts also,
seeing that he knows so little of details. I have been told that he is interested in a good
many matters besides this business."

"Wa'al," replied Timson, somewhat disconcerted, "I suppose he must keep 'em himself in some
kind of a fashion, an' I don't know a thing about any outside matters of his'n, though I suspicion
he has got quite a few. He's got some books in that safe" (pointing with his finger) "an' he's
got a safe in the vault, but if you'll believe me"--and the speaker looked as if he hardly
expected it--"I hain't never so much as seen the inside of either one on 'em. No, sir," he
declared, "I hain't no more idee of what's in them safes 'n you have. He's close, Dave Harum
is," said Chet with a convincing motion of the head; "on the hull, the clostest man I ever
see. I believe," he averred, "that if he was to lay out to keep it shut that lightnin' might
strike him square in the mouth an' it wouldn't go in an eighth of an inch. An' yet," he added,
"he c'n talk by the rod when he takes a notion."

"Must be a difficult person to get on with," commented John dryly.

"I couldn't stan' it no longer," declared Mr. Timson with the air of one who had endured to
the end of virtue, "an' I says to him the other day, 'Wa'al,' I says, 'if I can't suit ye,
mebbe you'd better suit yourself.'"

"Ah!" said John politely, seeing that some response was expected of him; "and what did he say
to that?"

"He ast me," replied Chet, "if I meant by that to throw up the situation. 'Wa'al,' I says 'I'm
sick enough to throw up most anythin',' I says, 'along with bein' found fault with fer nothin'.'"

"And then?" queried John, who had received the impression that the motion to adjourn had come
from the other side of the house.

"Wa'al," replied Chet, not quite so confidently, "he said somethin' about my requirin' a larger
spear of action, an' that he thought I'd do better on a mile track--some o' his hoss talk.
That's another thing," said Timson, changing the subject. "He's all fer hosses. He'd sooner
make a ten-dollar note on a hoss trade than a hunderd right here 'n this office. Many's the
time right in bus'nis hours, when I've wanted to ask him how he wanted somethin' done, he'd
be busy talkin' hoss, an' wouldn't pay no attention to me more'n 's if I wa'n't there."

"I am glad to feel," said John, "that you can not possibly have any unpleasant feeling toward
me, seeing that you resigned as you did."

"Cert'nly not, cert'nly not," declared Timson, a little uneasily. "If it hadn't 'a' ben you,
it would 'a' had to ben somebody else, an' now I seen you an' had a talk with you--Wa'al, I
guess I better git back into the other room. Dave's liable to come in any minute. But," he
said in parting, "I will give ye piece of advice: You keep enough laid by to pay your gettin'
back to N'York. You may want it in a hurry," and with this parting shot the rejected one took
his leave.

       *       *       *       *       *

The bank parlor was lighted by a window and a glazed door in the rear wall, and another window
on the south side. Mr. Harum's desk was by the rear, or west, window, which gave view of his
house, standing some hundred feet back from the street. The south, or side, window afforded
a view of his front yard and that of an adjoining dwelling, beyond which rose the wall of a
mercantile block. Business was encroaching upon David's domain. Our friend stood looking out
of the south window. To the left a bit of Main Street was visible, and the naked branches of
the elms and maples with which it was bordered were waving defiantly at their rivals over the
way, incited thereto by a northwest wind.

We invariably form a mental picture of every unknown person of whom we think at all. It may
be so faint that we are unconscious of it at the time, or so vivid that it is always recalled
until dissipated by seeing the person himself, or his likeness. But that we do so make a picture
is proved by the fact that upon being confronted by the real features of the person in question
we always experience a certain amount of surprise, even when we have not been conscious of
a different conception of him.

Be that as it may, however, there was no question in John Lenox's mind as to the identity of
the person who at last came briskly into the back office and interrupted his meditations. Rather
under the middle height, he was broad-shouldered and deep-chested, with a clean-shaven, red
face, with--not a mole--but a slight protuberance the size of half a large pea on the line
from the nostril to the corner of the mouth; bald over the crown and to a line a couple of
inches above the ear, below that thick and somewhat bushy hair of yellowish red, showing a
mingling of gray; small but very blue eyes; a thick nose, of no classifiable shape, and a large
mouth with the lips so pressed together as to produce a slightly downward and yet rather humorous
curve at the corners. He was dressed in a sack coat of dark "pepper-and-salt," with waistcoat
and trousers to match. A somewhat old-fashioned standing collar, flaring away from the throat,
was encircled by a red cravat, tied in a bow under his chin. A diamond stud of perhaps two
carats showed in the triangle of spotless shirt front, and on his head was a cloth cap with
ear lappets. He accosted our friend with, "I reckon you must be Mr. Lenox. How are you? I'm
glad to see you," tugging off a thick buckskin glove, and putting out a plump but muscular hand.

John thanked him as they shook hands, and "hoped he was well."

"Wa'al," said Mr. Harum, "I'm improvin' slowly. I've got so 'st I c'n set up long enough to
have my bed made. Come last night, I s'pose? Anybody to the deepo to bring ye over? This time
o' year once 'n a while the' don't nobody go over for passengers."

John said that he had had no trouble. A man by the name of Robinson had brought him and his
luggage.

"E-up!" said David with a nod, backing up to the fire which was burning in the grate of the
Franklin stove, "'Dug' Robinson. 'D he do the p'lite thing in the matter of questions an' gen'ral
conversation?" he asked with a grin. John laughed in reply to this question.

"Where'd you put up?" asked David, John said that he passed the night at the Eagle Hotel. Mr.
Harum had seen Dick Larrabee that morning and heard what he had to say of our friend's reception,
but he liked to get his information from original sources.

"Make ye putty comf'table?" he asked, turning to eject a mouthful into the fire.

"I got along pretty well under the circumstances," said John.

Mr. Harum did not press the inquiry. "How'd you leave the gen'ral?" he inquired.

"He seemed to be well," replied John, "and he wished to be kindly remembered to you."

"Fine man, the gen'ral," declared David, well pleased. "Fine man all 'round. Word's as good
as his bond. Yes, sir, when the gen'ral gives his warrant, I don't care whether I see the critter
or not. Know him much?"

"He and my father were old friends, and I have known him a good many years," replied John,
adding, "he has been very kind and friendly to me."

"Set down, set down," said Mr. Harum, pointing to a chair. Seating himself, he took off his
cap and dropped it with his gloves on the floor. "How long you ben here in the office?" he asked.

"Perhaps half an hour," was the reply.

"I meant to have ben here when you come," said the banker, "but I got hendered about a matter
of a hoss I'm looking at. I guess I'll shut that door," making a move toward the one into the
front office.

"Allow me," said John, getting up and closing it.

"May's well shut the other one while you're about it. Thank you," as John resumed his seat.
"I hain't got nothin' very private, but I'm 'fraid of distractin' Timson's mind. Did he int'duce
himself?"

"Yes," said John, "we introduced ourselves and had a few minutes conversation."

"Gin ye his hull hist'ry an' a few relations throwed in?"

"There was hardly time for that," said John, smiling.

"Rubbed a little furn'ture polish into my char'cter an' repitation?" insinuated Mr. Harum.

"Most of our talk was on the subject of his duties and responsibilities," was John's reply.
("Don't cal'late to let on any more'n he cal'lates to," thought David to himself.)

"Allowed he run the hull shebang, didn't he?"

"He seemed to have a pretty large idea of what was required of one in his place," admitted
the witness.

"Kind o' friendly, was he?" asked David.

"Well," said John, "after we had talked for a while I said to him that I was glad to think
that he could have no unpleasant feeling toward me, seeing that he had given up the place of
his own preference, and he assured me that he had none."

David turned and looked at John for an instant, with a twinkle in his eye. The younger man
returned the look and smiled slightly. David laughed outright.

"I guess you've seen folks before," he remarked.

"I have never met any one exactly like Mr. Timson, I think," said our friend with a slight laugh.

"Fortunitly them kind is rare," observed Mr. Harum dryly, rising and going to his desk, from
a drawer of which he produced a couple of cigars, one of which he proffered to John, who, for
the first time in his life, during the next half hour regretted that he was a smoker. David
sat for two or three minutes puffing diligently, and then took the weed out of his mouth and
looked contemplatively at it.

"How do you like that cigar?" he inquired.

"It burns very nicely," said the victim. Mr. Harum emitted a cough which was like a chuckle,
or a chuckle which was like a cough, and relapsed into silence again. Presently he turned his
head, looked curiously at the young man for a moment, and then turned his glance again to the fire.

"I've ben wonderin' some," he said, "pertic'lerly since I see you, how 't was 't you wanted
to come up here to Homeville. Gen'l Wolsey gin his warrant, an' so I reckon you hadn't ben
gettin' into no scrape nor nothin'," and again he looked sharply at the young man at his side.

"Did the general say nothing of my affairs?" the latter asked.

"No," replied David, "all 't he said was in a gen'ral way that he'd knowed you an' your folks
a good while, an' he thought you'd be jest the feller I was lookin' fer. Mebbe he reckoned
that if you wanted your story told, you'd ruther tell it yourself."

CHAPTER XIV.

Whatever might have been John's repugnance to making a confidant of the man whom he had known
but for half an hour, he acknowledged to himself that the other's curiosity was not only natural
but proper. He could not but know that in appearance and manner he was in marked contrast with
those whom the man had so far seen. He divined the fact that his coming from a great city to
settle down in a village town would furnish matter for surprise and conjecture, and felt that
it would be to his advantage with the man who was to be his employer that he should be perfectly
and obviously frank upon all matters of his own which might be properly mentioned. He had an
instinctive feeling that Harum combined acuteness and suspiciousness to a very large degree,
and he had also a feeling that the old man's confidence, once gained, would not be easily shaken.
So he told his hearer so much of his history as he thought pertinent, and David listened without
interruption or comment, save an occasional "E-um'm."

"And here I am," John remarked in conclusion.

"Here you be, fer a fact," said David. "Wa'al, the's worse places 'n Homeville--after you git
used to it," he added in qualification. "I ben back here a matter o' thirteen or fourteen year
now, an' am gettin' to feel my way 'round putty well; but not havin' ben in these parts fer
putty nigh thirty year, I found it ruther lonesome to start with, an' I guess if it hadn't
'a' ben fer Polly I wouldn't 'a' stood it. But up to the time I come back she hadn't never
ben ten mile away f'm here in her hull life, an' I couldn't budge her. But then," he remarked,
"while Homeville aint a metrop'lis, it's some a diff'rent place f'm what it used to be--in
some ways. Polly's my sister," he added by way of explanation.

"Well," said John, with rather a rueful laugh, "if it has taken you all that time to get used
to it the outlook for me is not very encouraging, I'm afraid."

"Wa'al," remarked Mr. Harum, "I'm apt to speak in par'bles sometimes. I guess you'll git along
after a spell, though it mayn't set fust rate on your stomech till you git used to the diet.
Say," he said after a moment, "if you'd had a couple o' thousan' more, do you think you'd 'a'
stuck to the law bus'nis?"

"I'm sure I don't know," replied John, "but I am inclined to think not. General Wolsey told
me that if I were very anxious to go on with it he would help me, but after what I told him
he advised me to write to you."

"He did, did he?"

"Yes," said John, "and after what I had gone through I was not altogether sorry to come away."

"Wa'al," said Mr. Harum thoughtfully, "if I was to lose what little I've got, an' had to give
up livin' in the way I was used to, an' couldn't even keep a hoss, I c'n allow 't I might be
willin' fer a change of scene to make a fresh start in. Yes, sir, I guess I would. Wa'al,"
looking at his watch, "I've got to go now, an' I'll see ye later, mebbe. You feel like takin'
holt to-day?"

"Oh, yes," said John with alacrity.

"All right," said Mr. Harum. "You tell Timson what you want, an' make him show you everythin'.
He understands, an' I've paid him for't. He's agreed to stay any time in reason 't you want
him, but I guess," he added with a laugh, "'t you c'n pump him dry 'n a day or two. It haint
rained wisdom an' knowlidge in his part o' the country fer a consid'able spell."

David stood for a moment drawing on his gloves, and then, looking at John with his characteristic
chuckle, continued:

"Allowed he'd ben drawin' the hull load, did he? Wa'al, sir, the truth on't is 't he never
come to a hill yet, 'f 't wa'n't more 'n a foot high, but what I had to git out an' push; nor
never struck a turn in the road but what I had to take him by the head an' lead him into it."
With which Mr. Harum put on his overcoat and cap and departed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Timson was leaning over the counter in animated controversy with a man on the outside who
had evidently asserted or quoted (the quotation is the usual weapon: it has a double barb and
can be wielded with comparative safety) something of a wounding effect.

"No, sir," exclaimed Chet, with a sounding slap on the counter, "no, sir! The' ain't one word
o' truth in't. I said myself, 'I won't stan' it,' I says, 'not f'm you ner nobody else,' I
says, 'an' what's more,' says I--" The expression in the face of Mr. Timson's tormentor caused
that gentleman to break off and look around. The man on the outside grinned, stared at John
a moment, and went out, and Timson turned and said, as John came forward, "Hello! The old man
picked ye to pieces all he wanted to?"

"We are through for the day, I fancy," said our friend, smiling, "and if you are ready to begin
my lessons I am ready to take them. Mr. Harum told me that you would be good enough to show
me what was necessary."

"All right," said Mr. Timson readily enough, and so John began his first day's work in David's
office. He was surprised and encouraged to find how much his experience in Rush & Company's
office stood him in hand, and managed to acquire in a comparatively short time a pretty fair
comprehension of the system which prevailed in "Harum's bank," notwithstanding the incessant
divagations of his instructor.

It was decided between Timson and our friend that on the following day the latter should undertake
the office work under supervision, and the next morning John was engaged upon the preliminaries
of the day's business when his employer came in and seated himself at his desk in the back
room. After a few minutes, in which he was busy with his letters, he appeared in the doorway
of the front room. He did not speak, for John saw him, and, responding to a backward toss of
the head, followed him into the "parlor," and at an intimation of the same silent character
shut the doors. Mr. Harum sat down at his desk, and John stood awaiting his pleasure.

"How 'd ye make out yestidy?" he asked. "Git anythin' out of old tongue-tied?" pointing with
his thumb toward the front room.

"Oh, yes," said John, smiling, as he recalled the unceasing flow of words which had enveloped
Timson's explanations.

"How much longer do you think you'll have to have him 'round?" asked Mr. Harum.

"Well," said John, "of course your customers are strangers to me, but so far as the routine
of the office is concerned I think I can manage after to-day. But I shall have to appeal to
you rather often for a while until I get thoroughly acquainted with my work."

"Good fer you," said David. "You've took holt a good sight quicker 'n I thought ye would, an'
I'll spend more or less time 'round here fer a while, or be where you c'n reach me. It's like
this," he continued; "Chet's a helpless kind of critter, fer all his braggin' an' talk, an'
I ben feelin' kind o' wambly about turnin' him loose--though the Lord knows," he said with
feeling, "'t I've had bother enough with him to kill a tree. But anyway I wrote to some folks
I know up to Syrchester to git something fer him to do, an' I got a letter to send him along,
an' mebbe they'd give him a show. See?"

"Yes, sir," said John, "and if you are willing to take the chances of my mistakes I will undertake
to get on without him."

"All right," said the banker, "we'll call it a heat--and, say, don't let on what I've told
you. I want to see how long it'll take to git all over the village that he didn't ask no odds
o' nobody. Hadn't ben out o' a job three days 'fore the' was a lot o' chances, an' all 't he
had to do was to take his pick out o' the lot on 'em."

"Really?" said John.

"Yes, sir," said David. "Some folks is gaited that way. Amusin', ain't it?--Hullo, Dick! Wa'al?"

"Willis'll give two hunderd fer the sorr'l colt," said the incomer, whom John recognized as
one of the loungers in the Eagle bar the night of his arrival.

"E-um'm!" said David. "Was he speakin' of any pertic'ler colt, or sorril colts in gen'ral?
I hain't got the only one the' is, I s'pose."

Dick merely laughed. "Because," continued the owner of the "sorril colt," "if Steve Willis
wants to lay in sorril colts at two hunderd a piece, I ain't goin' to gainsay him, but you
tell him that two-forty-nine ninety-nine won't buy the one in my barn." Dick laughed again.

John made a move in the direction of the front room.

"Hold on a minute," said David. "Shake hands with Mr. Larrabee."

"Seen ye before," said Dick, as they shook hands. "I was in the barroom when you come in the
other night," and then he laughed as at the recollection of something very amusing.

John flushed a little and said, a bit stiffly, "I remember you were kind enough to help about
my luggage."

"Excuse me," said Dick, conscious of the other's manner. "I wa'n't laughin' at you, that is,
not in pertic'ler. I couldn't see your face when Ame offered ye pie an' doughnuts instid of
beefsteak an' fixins. I c'd only guess at that; but Ame's face was enough fer me," and Dick
went off into another cachinnation.

David's face indicated some annoyance. "Oh, shet up," he exclaimed. "You'd keep that yawp o'
your'n goin', I believe, if it was the judgment day."

"Wa'al," said Dick with a grin, "I expect the' might be some fun to be got out o' that, if
a feller wa'n't worryin' too much about his own skin; an' as fur's I'm concerned----" Dick's
further views on the subject of that momentous occasion were left unexplained. A significant
look in David's face caused the speaker to break off and turn toward the door, through which
came two men, the foremost a hulking, shambling fellow, with an expression of repellent sullenness.
He came forward to within about ten feet of David's desk, while his companion halted near the
door. David eyed him in silence.

"I got this here notice this mornin'," said the man, "sayin' 't my note 'd be due to-morrer,
an' 'd have to be paid."

"Wa'al," said David, with his arm over the back of his chair and his left hand resting on his
desk, "that's so, ain't it?"

"Mebbe so," was the fellow's reply, "fur 's the comin' due 's concerned, but the payin' part
's another matter."

"Was you cal'latin' to have it renewed?" asked David, leaning a little forward.

"No," said the man coolly, "I don't know 's I want to renew it fer any pertic'ler time, an'
I guess it c'n run along fer a while jest as 't is." John looked at Dick Larrabee. He was watching
David's face with an expression of the utmost enjoyment. David twisted his chair a little more
to the right and out from the desk.

"You think it c'n run along, do ye?" he asked suavely. "I'm glad to have your views on the
subject. Wa'al, I guess it kin, too, until to-morro' at four o'clock, an' after that you c'n
settle with lawyer Johnson or the sheriff." The man uttered a disdainful laugh.

"I guess it'll puzzle ye some to c'lect it," he said. Mr. Harum's bushy red eyebrows met above
his nose.

"Look here, Bill Montaig," he said, "I know more 'bout this matter 'n you think for. I know
't you ben makin' your brags that you'd fix me in this deal. You allowed that you'd set up
usury in the fust place, an' if that didn't work I'd find you was execution proof anyways.
That's so, ain't it?"

"That's about the size on't," said Montaig, putting his feet a little farther apart. David
had risen from his chair.

"You didn't talk that way," proceeded the latter, "when you come whinin' 'round here to git
that money in the fust place, an' as I reckon some o' the facts in the case has slipped out
o' your mind since that time, I guess I'd better jog your mem'ry a little."

It was plain from the expression of Mr. Montaig's countenance that his confidence in the strength
of his position was not quite so assured as at first, but he maintained his attitude as well
as in him lay.

"In the fust place," David began his assault, "I didn't lend ye the money. I borr'ed it for
ye on my indorsement, an' charged ye fer doin' it, as I told ye at the time; an' another thing
that you appear to forgit is that you signed a paper statin' that you was wuth, in good and
available pusson'ls, free an' clear, over five hunderd dollars, an' that the statement was
made to me with the view of havin' me indorse your note fer one-fifty. Rec'lect that?" David
smiled grimly at the look of disconcert which, in spite of himself, appeared in Bill's face.

"I don't remember signin' no paper," he said doggedly.

"Jest as like as not," remarked Mr. Harum. "What you was thinkin' of about that time was gittin'
that money."

"I'd like to see that paper," said Bill, with a pretence of incredulity.

"You'll see it when the time comes," asserted David, with an emphatic nod. He squared himself,
planting his feet apart, and, thrusting his hands deep in his coat pockets, faced the discomfited
yokel.

"Do you think, Bill Montaig," he said, with measureless contempt, "that I didn't know who I
was dealin' with? that I didn't know what a low-lived, roost-robbin' skunk you was? an' didn't
know how to protect myself agin such an'muls as you be? Wa'al, I did, an' don't you stop thinkin'
'bout it--an'," he added, shaking his finger at the object of his scorn, "you'll pay that note
or I'll put ye where the dogs won't bite ye," and with that he turned on his heel and resumed
his seat. Bill stood for a minute with a scowl of rage and defeat in his lowering face.

"Got any further bus'nis with me?" inquired Mr. Harum. "Anythin' more 't I c'n oblige ye about?"
There was no answer.

"I asked you," said David, raising his voice and rising to his feet, "if you had any further
bus'nis with me."

"I dunno's I have," was the sullen response.

"All right," said David. "That bein' the case, an' as I've got somethin' to do beside wastin'
my time on such wuthless pups as you be, I'll thank you to git out. There's the door," he added,
pointing to it.

"He, he, he, he, ho, ho, ha, h-o-o-o-o-o!" came from the throat of Dick Larrabee. This was
too much for the exasperated Bill, and he erred (to put it mildly) in raising his arm and advancing
a step toward his creditor. He was not swift enough to take the second, however, for David,
with amazing quickness, sprang upon him, and twisting him around, rushed him out of the door,
down the passage, and out of the front door, which was obligingly held open by an outgoing
client, who took in the situation and gave precedence to Mr. Montaig. His companion, who so
far had taken no part, made a motion to interfere, but John, who stood nearest to him, caught
him by the collar and jerked him back, with the suggestion that it would be better to let the
two have it out by themselves. David came back rather breathless and very red in the face,
but evidently in exceeding good humor.

"Scat my ----!" he exclaimed. "Hain't had such a good tussle I dunno when."

"Bill's considered ruther an awk'ard customer," remarked Dick. "I guess he hain't had no such
handlin' fer quite a while."

"Sho!" exclaimed Mr. Harum. "The' ain't nothin' to him but wind an' meanness. Who was that
feller with him?"

"Name 's Smith, I believe," replied Dick. "Guess Bill brought him along fer a witness, an'
I reckon he seen all he wanted to. I'll bet his neck's achin' some," added Mr. Larrabee with
a laugh.

"How's that?" asked David.

"Well, he made a move to tackle you as you was escortin' Bill out, an' Mr. Lenox there caught
him in the collar an' gin him a jerk that'd 'a' landed him on his back," said Dick, "if," turning
to John, "you hadn't helt holt of him. You putty nigh broke his neck. He went off--he, he,
he, he, ho!--wrigglin' it to make sure."

"I used more force than was necessary, I'm afraid," said Billy Williams's pupil, "but there
wasn't much time to calculate."

"Much obliged," said David with a nod.

"Not at all," protested John, laughing. "I have enjoyed a great deal this morning."

"It has ben ruther pleasant," remarked David with a chuckle, "but you mustn't cal'late on havin'
such fun ev'ry mornin'."

John went into the business office, leaving the banker and Dick.

"Say," said the latter when they were alone, "that young man o' your'n 's quite a feller. He
took care o' that big Smith chap with one hand; an' say, you c'n git round on your pins 'bout
's lively 's they make 'em, I guess. I swan!" he exclaimed, slapping his thigh and shaking
with laughter, "the hull thing head-an'-shouldered any show I seen lately." And then for a
while they fell to talking of the "sorril colt" and other things.

CHAPTER XV.

When John went back to the office after the noonday intermission it was manifest that something
had happened to Mr. Timson, and that the something was of a nature extremely gratifying to
that worthy gentleman. He was beaming with satisfaction and rustling with importance. Several
times during the afternoon he appeared to be on the point of confiding his news, but in the
face of the interruptions which occurred, or which he feared might check the flow of his communication,
he managed to restrain himself till after the closing of the office. But scarcely were the
shutters up (at the willing hands of Peleg Hopkins) when he turned to John and, looking at
him sharply, said, "Has Dave said anythin' 'bout my leavin'?"

"He told me he expected you would stay as long as might be necessary to get me well started,"
said John non-committally, mindful of Mr. Harum's injunction.

"Jest like him," declared Chet. "Jest like him for all the world; but the fact o' the matter
is 't I'm goin' to-morro'. I s'pose he thought," reflected Mr. Timson, "thet he'd ruther you'd
find it out yourself than to have to break it to ye, 'cause then, don't ye see, after I was
gone he c'd lay the hull thing at my door."

"Really," said John, "I should have said that he ought to have told me."

"Wa'al," said Chet encouragingly, "mebbe you'll git along somehow, though I'm 'fraid you'll
have more or less trouble; but I told Dave that as fur 's I c'd see, mebbe you'd do 's well
's most anybody he c'd git that didn't know any o' the customers, an' hadn't never done any
o' this kind o' work before."

"Thank you very much," said John. "And so you are off to-morrow, are you?"

"Got to be," declared Mr. Timson. "I'd 'a' liked to stay with you a spell longer, but the's
a big concern f'm out of town that as soon as they heard I was at libe'ty wrote for me to come
right along up, an' I s'pose I hadn't ought to keep 'em waitin'."

"No, I should think not," said John, "and I congratulate you upon having located yourself so
quickly."

"Oh!" said Mr. Timson, with ineffable complacency, "I hain't give myself no worry; I hain't
lost no sleep. I've allowed all along that Dave Harum'd find out that he wa'n't the unly man
that needed my kind o' work, an' I ain't meanin' any disrispect to you when I say 't--"

"Just so," said John. "I quite understand. Nobody could expect to take just the place with
him that you have filled. And, by the way," he added, "as you are going in the morning, and
I may not see you again, would you kindly give me the last balance sheets of the two ledgers
and the bill-book. I suppose, of course, that they are brought down to the first of the month,
and I shall want to have them."

"Oh, yes, cert'nly, of course--wa'al I guess Dave's got 'em," replied Chet, looking considerably
disconcerted, "but I'll look 'em up in the mornin'. My train don't go till ten o'clock, an'
I'll see you 'bout any little last thing in the mornin'--but I guess I've got to go now on
account of a lot of things. You c'n shut up, can't ye?"

Whereupon Mr. Timson made his exit, and not long afterward David came in. By that time everything
had been put away, the safe and vault closed, and Peleg had departed with the mail and his
freedom for the rest of the day.

"Wa'al," said Mr. Harum, lifting himself to a seat on the counter, "how've you made out? All O.K.?"

"Yes," replied John, "I think so."

"Where's Chet?"

"He went away some few minutes ago. He said he had a good many things to attend to as he was
leaving in the morning."

"E-um'm!" said David incredulously. "I guess 't won't take him long to close up his matters.
Did he leave ev'rything in good shape? Cash all right, an' so on?"

"I think so," said John. "The cash is right I am sure."

"How 'bout the books?"

"I asked him to let me have the balance sheets, and he said that you must have them, but that
he would come in in the morning and--well, what he said was that he would see me in the morning,
and, as he put it, look after any little last thing."

"E-um'm!" David grunted. "He won't do no such a thing. We've seen the last of him, you bet,
an' a good riddance. He'll take the nine o'clock to-night, that's what he'll do. Drawed his
pay, I guess, didn't he?"

"He said he was to be paid for this month," answered John, "and took sixty dollars. Was that
right?"

"Yes," said David, nodding his head absently. "What was it he said about them statements?"
he inquired after a moment.

"He said he guessed you must have them."

"E-um'm!" was David's comment. "What'd he say about leavin'?"

John laughed and related the conversation as exactly as he could.

"What'd I tell ye," said Mr. Harum, with a short laugh. "Mebbe he won't go till to-morro',
after all," he remarked. "He'll want to put in a leetle more time tellin' how he was sent for
in a hurry by that big concern f'm out of town 't he's goin' to."

"Upon my word, I can't understand it," said John, "knowing that you can contradict him."

"Wa'al," said David, "he'll allow that if he gits in the fust word, he'll take the pole. It
don't matter anyway, long 's he's gone. I guess you an' me c'n pull the load, can't we?" and
he dropped down off the counter and started to go out. "By the way," he said, halting a moment,
"can't you come in to tea at six o'clock? I want to make ye acquainted with Polly, an' she's
itchin' to see ye."

"I shall be delighted," said John.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Polly," said David, "I've ast the young feller to come to tea, but don't you say the word
'Eagle,' to him. You c'n show your ign'rance 'bout all the other kinds of birds an' animals
you ain't familiar with," said the unfeeling brother, "but leave eagles alone."

"What you up to now?" she asked, but she got no answer but a laugh.

From a social point of view the entertainment could not be described as a very brilliant success.
Our friend was tired and hungry. Mr. Harum was unusually taciturn, and Mrs. Bixbee, being under
her brother's interdict as regarded the subject which, had it been allowed discussion, might
have opened the way, was at a loss for generalities. But John afterward got upon terms of the
friendliest nature with that kindly soul.

CHAPTER XVI.

Some weeks after John's assumption of his duties in the office of David Harum, Banker, that
gentleman sat reading his New York paper in the "wing settin'-room," after tea, and Aunt Polly
was occupied with the hemming of a towel. The able editorial which David was perusing was strengthening
his conviction that all the intelligence and virtue of the country were monopolized by the
Republican party, when his meditations were broken in upon by Mrs. Bixbee, who knew nothing
and cared less about the Force Bill or the doctrine of protection to American industries.

"You hain't said nothin' fer quite a while about the bank," she remarked. "Is Mr. Lenox gittin'
along all right?"

"Guess he's gittin' into condition as fast as c'd be expected," said David, between two lines
of his editorial.

"It must be awful lonesome fer him," she observed, to which there was no reply.

"Ain't it?" she asked, after an interval.

"Ain't what?" said David, looking up at her.

"Awful lonesome," she reiterated.

"Guess nobody ain't ever very lonesome when you're 'round an' got your breath," was the reply.
"What you talkin' about?"

"I ain't talkin' about you, 't any rate," said Mrs. Bixbee. "I was sayin' it must be awful
lonesome fer Mr. Lenox up here where he don't know a soul hardly, an' livin' at that hole of
a tavern."

"I don't see 't you've any cause to complain long's he don't," said David, hoping that it would
not come to his sister's ears that he had, for reasons of his own, discouraged any attempt
on John's part to better his quarters, "an' he hain't ben very lonesome daytimes, I guess,
so fur, 'thout he's ben makin' work fer himself to kill time."

"What do you mean?"

"Wa'al," said David, "we found that Chet hadn't done more 'n to give matters a lick an' a promise
in most a year. He done just enough to keep up the day's work an' no more an' the upshot on't
is that John's had to put in consid'able time to git things straightened out."

"What a shame!" exclaimed Aunt Polly.

"Keeps him f'm bein' lonesome," remarked her brother with a grin.

"An' he hain't had no time to himself!" she protested. "I don't believe you've made up your
mind yet whether you're goin' to like him, an' I don't believe he'll stay anyway."

"I've told more 'n forty-leven times," said Mr. Harum, looking up over his paper, "that I thought
we was goin' to make a hitch of it, an' he cert'nly hain't said nuthin' 'bout leavin', an'
I guess he won't fer a while, tavern or no tavern. He's got a putty stiff upper lip of his
own, I reckon," David further remarked, with a short laugh, causing Mrs. Bixbee to look up
at him inquiringly, which look the speaker answered with a nod, saying, "Me an' him had a little
go-round to-day."

"You hain't had no words, hev ye?" she asked anxiously.

"Wa'al, we didn't have what ye might call words. I was jest tryin' a little experiment with him."

"Humph," she remarked, "you're alwus tryin' exper'ments on somebody, an' you'll be liable to
git ketched at it some day."

"Exceptin' on you," said David. "You don't think I'd try any experiments on you, do ye?"

"Me!" she cried. "You're at me the hull endurin' time, an' you know it."

"Wa'al, but Polly," said David insinuatingly, "you don't know how int'restin' you be."

"Glad you think so," she declared, with a sniff and a toss of the head. "What you ben up to
with Mr. Lenox?"

"Oh, nuthin' much," replied Mr. Harum, making a feint of resuming his reading.

"Be ye goin' to tell me, or--air ye too 'shamed on't?" she added with a little laugh, which
somewhat turned the tables on her teasing brother.

"Wa'al, I laid out to try an' read this paper," he said, spreading it out on his lap, "but,"
resignedly, "I guess 't ain't no use. Do you know what a count'fit bill is?" he asked.

"I dunno 's I ever see one," she said, "but I s'pose I do. They're agin the law, ain't they?"

"The's a number o' things that's agin the law," remarked David dryly.

"Wa'al?" ejaculated Mrs. Bixbee after a moment of waiting.

"Wa'al," said David, "the' ain't much to tell, but it's plain I don't git no peace till you
git it out of me. It was like this: The young feller's took holt everywhere else right off,
but handlin' the money bothered him consid'able at fust. It was slow work, an' I c'd see it
myself; but he's gettin' the hang on't now. Another thing I expected he'd run up agin was count'fits.
The' ain't so very many on 'em round now-a-days, but the' is now an' then one. He allowed to
me that he was liable to get stuck at fust, an' I reckoned he would. But I never said nuthin'
about it, nor ast no questions until to-day; an' this afternoon I come in to look 'round, an'
I says to him, 'What luck have you had with your money? Git any bad?' I says. 'Wa'al,' he says,
colorin' up a little, 'I don't know how many I may have took in an' paid out agin without knowin'
it,' he says, 'but the' was a couple sent back from New York out o' that package that went
down last Friday.'"

"'What was they?' I says.

"'A five an' a ten,' he says.

"'Where be they?' I says.

"'They're in the draw there--they're ruther int'restin' objects of study,' he says, kind o'
laughin' on the wrong side of his mouth.

"'Countin' 'em in the cash?' I says, an' with that he kind o' reddened up agin. 'No, sir,'
he says, 'I charged 'em up to my own account, an' I've kept 'em to compare with.'

"'You hadn't ought to done that,' I says.

"'You think I ought to 'a' put 'em in the fire at once?' says he.

"'No,' I says, 'that wa'n't what I meant. Why didn't you mix 'em up with the other money, an'
let 'em go when you was payin' out? Anyways,' I says, 'you charge 'em up to profit an' loss
if you're goin' to charge 'em to anythin', an' let me have 'em,' I says.

"'What'll you do with 'em?' he says to me, kind o' shuttin' his jaws together.

"'I'll take care on 'em,' I says. 'They mayn't be good enough to send down to New York,' I
says, 'but they'll go around here all right--jest as good as any other,' I says, 'long 's you
keep 'em movin'.'"

"David Harum!" cried Polly, who, though not quite comprehending some of the technicalities
of detail, was fully alive to the turpitude of the suggestion. "I hope to gracious he didn't
think you was in earnest. Why, s'pose they was passed around, wouldn't somebody git stuck with
'em in the long run? You know they would." Mrs. Bixbee occasionally surprised her brother with
unexpected penetration, but she seldom got much recognition of it.

"I see by the paper," he remarked, "that the' was a man died in Pheladelphy one day last week,"
which piece of barefaced irrelevancy elicited no notice from Mrs. Bixbee.

"What more did he say?" she demanded.

"Wa'al," responded Mr. Harum with a laugh, "he said that he didn't see why I should be a loser
by his mistakes, an' that as fur as the bills was concerned they belonged to him, an' with
that," said the narrator, "Mister Man gits 'em out of the draw an' jest marches into the back
room an' puts the dum things int' the fire."

"He done jest right," declared Aunt Polly, "an' you know it, don't ye now?"

"Wa'al," said David, "f'm his standpoint--f'm his standpoint, I guess he did, an'," rubbing
his chin with two fingers of his left hand, "it's a putty dum good standpoint too. I've ben
lookin'," he added reflectively, "fer an honest man fer quite a number o' years, an' I guess
I've found him; yes'm, I guess I've found him."

"An' be you goin' to let him lose that fifteen dollars?" asked the practical Polly, fixing
her brother with her eyes.

"Wa'al," said David, with a short laugh, "what c'n I do with such an obst'nit critter 's he
is? He jest backed into the britchin', an' I couldn't do nothin' with him." Aunt Polly sat
over her sewing for a minute or two without taking a stitch.

"I'm sorry you done it," she said at last.

"I dunno but I did make ruther a mess of it," admitted Mr. Harum.

CHAPTER XVII.

It was the 23d of December, and shortly after the closing hour. Peleg had departed and our
friend had just locked the vault when David came into the office and around behind the counter.

"Be you in any hurry?" he asked.

John said he was not, whereupon Mr. Harum hitched himself up onto a high office stool, with
his heels on the spindle, and leaned sideways upon the desk, while John stood facing him with
his left arm upon the desk.

"John," said David, "do ye know the Widdo' Cullom?"

"No" said John, "but I know who she is--a tall, thin woman, who walks with a slight stoop and
limp. I noticed her and asked her name because there was something about her looks that attracted
my attention--as though at some time she might have seen better days."

"That's the party," said David. "She has seen better days, but she's eat an' drunk sorro' mostly
fer goin' on thirty year, an' darned little else good share o' the time, I reckon."

"She has that appearance certainly," said John.

"Yes sir," said David, "she's had a putty tough time, the widdo' has, an' yet," he proceeded
after a momentary pause, "the' was a time when the Culloms was some o' the king-pins o' this
hull region. They used to own quarter o' the county, an' they lived in the big house up on
the hill where Doc Hays lives now. That was considered to be the finest place anywheres 'round
here in them days. I used to think the Capitol to Washington must be somethin' like the Cullom
house, an' that Billy P. (folks used to call him Billy P. 'cause his father's name was William
an' his was William Parker), an' that Billy P. 'd jest 's like 's not be president. I've changed
my mind some on the subject of presidents since I was a boy."

Here Mr. Harum turned on his stool, put his right hand into his sack-coat pocket, extracted
therefrom part of a paper of "Maple Dew," and replenished his left cheek with an ample wad
of "fine-cut." John took advantage of the break to head off what he had reason to fear might
turn into a lengthy digression from the matter in hand by saying, "I beg pardon, but how does
it happen that Mrs. Cullom is in such circumstances? Has the family all died out?"

"Wa'al," said David, "they're most on 'em dead, all on 'em, in fact, except the widdo's son
Charley, but as fur 's the family 's concerned, it more 'n died out--it gin out! 'D ye ever
hear of Jim Wheton's calf? Wa'al, Jim brought three or four veals into town one spring to sell.
Dick Larrabee used to peddle meat them days. Dick looked 'em over an' says, 'Look here, Jim,'
he says, 'I guess you got a "deakin" in that lot,' he says. 'I dunno what you mean,' says Jim.
'Yes, ye do, goll darn ye!' says Dick, 'yes, ye do. You didn't never kill that calf, an' you
know it. That calf died, that's what that calf done. Come, now, own up,' he says. 'Wa'al,'
says Jim, 'I didn't kill it, an' it didn't die nuther--it jest kind o' gin out.'"

John joined in the laugh with which the narrator rewarded his own effort, and David went on:
"Yes, sir, they jest petered out. Old Billy, Billy P.'s father, inheritid all the prop'ty--never
done a stroke of work in his life. He had a collidge education, went to Europe, an' all that',
an' before he was fifty year old he hardly ever come near the old place after he was growed
up. The land was all farmed out on shares, an' his farmers mostly bamboozled him the hull time.
He got consid'able income, of course, but as things went along and they found out how slack
he was they kept bitin' off bigger chunks all the time, an' sometimes he didn't git even the
core. But all the time when he wanted money--an' he wanted it putty often I tell ye--the easiest
way was to stick on a morgidge; an' after a spell it got so 't he'd have to give a morgidge
to pay the int'rist on the other morgidges."

"But," said John, "was there nothing to the estate but land?"

"Oh, yes," said David, "old Billy's father left him some consid'able pers'nal, but after that
was gone he went into the morgidge bus'nis as I tell ye. He lived mostly up to Syrchester and
around, an' when he got married he bought a place in Syrchester and lived there till Billy
P. was about twelve or thirteen year old, an' he was about fifty. By that time he'd got 'bout
to the end of his rope, an' the' wa'n't nothin' for it but to come back here to Homeville an'
make the most o' what the' was left--an' that's what he done, let alone that he didn't make
the most on't to any pertic'ler extent. Mis' Cullom, his wife, wa'n't no help to him. She was
a city woman an' didn't take to the country no way, but when she died it broke old Billy up
wus 'n ever. She peaked an' pined, an' died when Billy P. was about fifteen or so. Wa'al, Billy
P. an' the old man wrastled along somehow, an' the boy went to collidge fer a year or so. How
they ever got along 's they did I dunno. The' was a story that some far-off relation left old
Billy some money, an' I guess that an' what they got off'm what farms was left carried 'em
along till Billy P. was twenty-five or so, an' then he up an' got married. That was the crownin'
stroke," remarked David. "She was one o' the village girls--respectable folks, more 'n ordinary
good lookin' an' high steppin', an' had had some schoolin'. But the old man was prouder 'n
a cock-turkey, an' thought nobody wa'n't quite good enough fer Billy P., an' all along kind
o' reckoned that he'd marry some money an' git a new start. But when he got married--on the
quiet, you know, cause he knowed the old man would kick--wa'al, that killed the trick, an'
the old man into the bargain. It took the gumption all out of him, an' he didn't live a year.
Wa'al, sir, it was curious, but, 's I was told, putty much the hull village sided with the
old man. The Culloms was kind o' kings in them days, an' folks wa'n't so one-man's-good's-anotherish
as they be now. They thought Billy P. done wrong, though they didn't have nothin' to say 'gainst
the girl neither--an' she's very much respected, Mis' Cullom is, an' as fur's I'm concerned,
I've alwus guessed she kept Billy P. goin' full as long 's any one could. But 't wa'n't no
use--that is to say, the sure thing come to pass. He had a nom'nal title to a good deal o'
prop'ty, but the equity in most on't if it had ben to be put up wa'n't enough to pay fer the
papers. You see, the' ain't never ben no real cash value in farm prop'ty in these parts. The'
ain't ben hardly a dozen changes in farm titles, 'cept by inher'tance or foreclosure, in thirty
years. So Billy P. didn't make no effort. Int'rist's one o' them things that keeps right on
nights an' Sundays. He jest had the deeds made out and handed 'em over when the time came to
settle. The' was some village lots though that was clear, that fetched him in some money from
time to time until they was all gone but one, an' that's the one Mis' Cullom lives on now.
It was consid'able more'n a lot--in fact, a putty sizable place. She thought the sun rose an'
set where Billy P. was, but she took a crotchit in her head, and wouldn't ever sign no papers
fer that, an' lucky fer him too. The' was a house on to it, an' he had a roof over his head
anyway when he died six or seven years after he married, an' left her with a boy to raise.
How she got along all them years till Charley got big enough to help, I swan! I don't know.
She took in sewin' an' washin', an' went out to cook an' nurse, an' all that, but I reckon
the' was now an' then times when they didn't overload their stomechs much, nor have to open
the winders to cool off. But she held onto that prop'ty of her'n like a pup to a root. It was
putty well out when Billy P. died, but the village has growed up to it. The's some good lots
could be cut out on't, an' it backs up to the river where the current's enough to make a mighty
good power fer a 'lectric light. I know some fellers that are talkin' of startin' a plant here,
an' it ain't out o' sight that they'd pay a good price fer the river front, an' enough land
to build on. Fact on't is, it's got to be a putty valu'ble piece o' prop'ty, more 'n she cal'lates
on, I reckon."

Here Mr. Harum paused, pinching his chin with thumb and index finger, and mumbling his tobacco.
John, who had listened with more attention than interest--wondering the while as to what the
narrative was leading up to--thought something might properly be expected of him to show that
he had followed it, and said, "So Mrs. Cullom has kept this last piece clear, has she?"

"No," said David, bringing down his right hand upon the desk with emphasis, "that's jest what
she hain't done, an' that's how I come to tell ye somethin' of the story, an' more on't 'n
you've cared about hearin', mebbe."

"Not at all," John protested. "I have been very much interested."

"You have, have you?" said Mr. Harum. "Wa'al, I got somethin' I want ye to do. Day after to-morro'
's Chris'mus, an' I want ye to drop Mis' Cullom a line, somethin' like this, 'That Mr. Harum
told ye to say that that morgidge he holds, havin' ben past due fer some time, an' no int'rist
havin' ben paid fer, let me see, more'n a year, he wants to close the matter up, an' he'll
see her Chris'mus mornin' at the bank at nine o'clock, he havin' more time on that day; but
that, as fur as he can see, the bus'nis won't take very long'--somethin' like that, you understand?"

"Very well, sir," said John, hoping that his employer would not see in his face the disgust
and repugnance he felt as he surmised what a scheme was on foot, and recalled what he had heard
of Harum's hard and unscrupulous ways, though he had to admit that this, excepting perhaps
the episode of the counterfeit money, was the first revelation to him personally. But this
seemed very bad to him.

"All right," said David cheerfully, "I s'pose it won't take you long to find out what's in
your stockin', an' if you hain't nothin' else to do Chris'mus mornin' I'd like to have you
open the office and stay 'round a spell till I git through with Mis' Cullom. Mebbe the' 'll
be some papers to fill out or witniss or somethin'; an' have that skeezicks of a boy make up
the fires so'st the place'll be warm."

"Very good, sir," said John, hoping that the interview was at an end.

But the elder man sat for some minutes apparently in a brown study, and occasionally a smile
of sardonic cunning wrinkled his face. At last he said: "I've told ye so much that I may as
well tell ye how I come by that morgidge. 'Twont take but a minute, an' then you can run an'
play," he added with a chuckle.

"I trust I have not betrayed any impatience," said John, and instantly conscious of his infelicitous
expression, added hastily, "I have really been very much interested."

"Oh, no," was the reply, "you hain't betrayed none, but I know old fellers like me gen'rally
tell a thing twice over while they're at it. Wa'al," he went on, "it was like this. After Charley
Cullom got to be some grown he helped to keep the pot a-bilin', 'n they got on some better.
'Bout seven year ago, though, he up an' got married, an' then the fat ketched fire. Finally
he allowed that if he had some money he'd go West 'n take up some land, 'n git along like pussly
'n a flower gard'n. He ambitioned that if his mother 'd raise a thousan' dollars on her place
he'd be sure to take care of the int'rist, an' prob'ly pay off the princ'ple in almost no time.
Wa'al, she done it, an' off he went. She didn't come to me fer the money, because--I dunno--at
any rate she didn't, but got it of 'Zeke Swinney.

"Wa'al, it turned out jest 's any fool might 've predilictid, fer after the first year, when
I reckon he paid it out of the thousan', Charley never paid no int'rist. The second year he
was jest gettin' goin', an' the next year he lost a hoss jest as he was cal'latin' to pay,
an' the next year the grasshoppers smote him, 'n so on; an' the outcome was that at the end
of five years, when the morgidge had one year to run, Charley'd paid one year, an' she'd paid
one, an' she stood to owe three years' int'rist. How old Swinney come to hold off so was that
she used to pay the cuss ten dollars or so ev'ry six months 'n git no credit fer it, an' no
receipt an' no witniss, 'n he knowed the prop'ty was improving all the time. He may have had
another reason, but at any rate he let her run, and got the shave reg'lar. But at the time
I'm tellin' you about he'd begun to cut up, an' allowed that if she didn't settle up the int'rist
he'd foreclose, an' I got wind on't an' I run across her one day an' got to talkin' with her,
an' she gin me the hull narration. 'How much do you owe the old critter?' I says. 'A hunderd
an' eighty dollars,' she says, 'an' where I'm goin' to git it,' she says, 'the Lord only knows.'
'An' He won't tell ye, I reckon,' I says. Wa'al, of course I'd known that Swinney had a morgidge
because it was a matter of record, an' I knowed him well enough to give a guess what his game
was goin' to be, an' more'n that I'd had my eye on that piece an' parcel an' I figured that
he wa'n't any likelier a citizen 'n I was." ("Yes," said John to himself, "where the carcase
is the vultures are gathered together.")

"'Wa'al,' I says to her, after we'd had a little more talk, 's'posen you come 'round to my
place to-morro' 'bout 'leven o'clock, an' mebbe we c'n cipher this thing out. I don't say positive
that we kin,' I says, 'but mebbe, mebbe.' So that afternoon I sent over to the county seat
an' got a description an' had a second morgidge drawed up fer two hundred dollars, an' Mis'
Cullom signed it mighty quick. I had the morgidge made one day after date, 'cause, as I said
to her, it was in the nature of a temp'rary loan, but she was so tickled she'd have signed
most anythin' at that pertic'ler time. 'Now,' I says to her, 'you go an' settle with old Step-an'-fetch-it,
but don't you say a word where you got the money,' I says. 'Don't ye let on nothin'--stretch
that conscience o' your'n if nes'sary,' I says, 'an' be pertic'ler if he asks you if Dave Harum
give ye the money you jest say, "No, he didn't." That wont be no lie,' I says, 'because I aint
givin' it to ye,' I says. Wa'al, she done as I told her. Of course Swinney suspicioned fust
off that I was mixed up in it, but she stood him off so fair an' square that he didn't know
jest what to think, but his claws was cut fer a spell, anyway.

"Wa'al, things went on fer a while, till I made up my mind that I ought to relieve Swinney
of some of his anxieties about worldly bus'nis, an' I dropped in on him one mornin' an' passed
the time o' day, an' after we'd eased up our minds on the subjects of each other's health an'
such like I says, 'You hold a morgidge on the Widder Cullom's place, don't ye?' Of course he
couldn't say nothin' but 'yes.' 'Does she keep up the int'rist all right?' I says. 'I don't
want to be pokin' my nose into your bus'nis,' I says, 'an' don't tell me nothin' you don't
want to.' Wa'al, he knowed Dave Harum was Dave Harum, an' that he might 's well spit it out,
an' he says, 'Wa'al, she didn't pay nothin' fer a good while, but last time she forked over
the hull amount. 'But I hain't no notion,' he says, 'that she'll come to time agin.' 'An' s'posin'
she don't,' I says, 'you'll take the prop'ty, won't ye?' 'Don't see no other way,' he says,
an' lookin' up quick, 'unless you over-bid me,' he says. 'No,' I says, 'I ain't buyin' no real
estate jest now, but the thing I come in fer,' I says, 'leavin' out the pleasure of havin'
a talk with you, was to say that I'd take that morgidge off'm your hands.'

"Wa'al, sir, he, he, he, he! Scat my ----! At that he looked at me fer a minute with his jaw
on his neck, an' then he hunched himself, 'n drawed in his neck like a mud turtle. 'No,' he
says, 'I ain't sufferin' fer the money, an' I guess I'll keep the morgidge. It's putty near
due now, but mebbe I'll let it run a spell. I guess the secur'ty's good fer it.' 'Yes,' I says,
'I reckon you'll let it run long enough fer the widder to pay the taxes on't once more anyhow;
I guess the secur'ty's good enough to take that resk; but how 'bout my secur'ty?' I says. 'What
d'you mean?' he says. 'I mean,' says I, 'that I've got a second morgidge on that prop'ty, an'
I begin to tremble fer my secur'ty. You've jest told me,' I says, 'that you're goin' to foreclose
an' I cal'late to protect myself, an' I don't cal'late,' I says, 'to have to go an' bid on
that prop'ty, an' put in a lot more money to save my investment, unless I'm 'bleeged to--not
much! an' you can jest sign that morgidge over to me, an' the sooner the quicker,' I says."

David brought his hand down on his thigh with a vigorous slap, the fellow of the one which,
John could imagine, had emphasized his demand upon Swinney. The story, to which he had at first
listened with polite patience merely, he had found more interesting as it went on, and, excusing
himself, he brought up a stool, and mounting it, said, "And what did Swinney say to that?"
Mr. Harum emitted a gurgling chuckle, yawned his quid out of his mouth, tossing it over his
shoulder in the general direction of the waste basket, and bit off the end of a cigar which
he found by slapping his waistcoat pockets. John got down and fetched him a match, which he
scratched in the vicinity of his hip pocket, lighted his cigar (John declining to join him
on some plausible pretext, having on a previous occasion accepted one of the brand), and after
rolling it around with his lips and tongue to the effect that the lighted end described sundry
eccentric curves, located it firmly with an upward angle in the left-hand corner of his mouth,
gave it a couple of vigorous puffs, and replied to John's question.

"Wa'al, 'Zeke Swinney was a perfesser of religion some years ago, an' mebbe he is now, but
what he said to me on this pertic'ler occasion was that he'd see me in hell fust, an' then
he wouldn't.

"'Wa'al,' I says, 'mebbe you won't, mebbe you will, it's alwus a pleasure to meet ye,' I says,
'but in that case this morgidge bus'nis 'll be a question fer our executors,' I says, 'fer
you don't never foreclose that morgidge, an' don't you fergit it,' I says.

"'Oh, you'd like to git holt o' that prop'ty yourself. I see what you're up to,' he says.

"'Look a-here, 'Zeke Swinney,' I says, 'I've got an int'rist in that prop'ty, an' I propose
to p'tect it. You're goin' to sign that morgidge over to me, or I'll foreclose and surrygate
ye,' I says, 'unless you allow to bid in the prop'ty, in which case we'll see whose weasel-skin's
the longest. But I guess it won't come to that,' I says. 'You kin take your choice,' I says.
'Whether I want to git holt o' that prop'ty myself ain't neither here nor there. Mebbe I do,
an' mebbe I don't, but anyways,' I says, 'you don't git it, nor wouldn't ever, for if I can't
make you sign over, I'll either do what I said or I'll back the widder in a defence fer usury.
Put that in your pipe an' smoke it,' I says.

"'What do you mean?' he says, gittin' half out his chair.

"'I mean this,' I says, 'that the fust six months the widder couldn't pay she gin you ten dollars
to hold off, an' the next time she gin you fifteen, an' that you've bled her fer shaves to
the tune of sixty odd dollars in three years, an' then got your int'rist in full.'

"That riz him clean out of his chair," said David. "'She can't prove it,' he says, shakin'
his fist in the air.

"'Oh, ho! ho!' I says, tippin' my chair back agin the wall. 'If Mis' Cullom was to swear how
an' where she paid you the money, givin' chapter an' verse, and showin' her own mem'randums
even, an' I was to swear that when I twitted you with gittin' it you didn't deny it, but only
said that she couldn't prove it, how long do you think it 'ould take a Freeland County jury
to find agin ye? I allow, 'Zeke Swinney,' I says, 'that you wa'n't born yestyd'y, but you ain't
so old as you look, not by a dum sight!' an' then how I did laugh!

"Wa'al," said David, as he got down off the stool and stretched himself, yawning, "I guess
I've yarned it enough fer one day. Don't fergit to send Mis' Cullom that notice, an' make it
up an' up. I'm goin' to git the thing off my mind this trip."

"Very well, sir," said John, "but let me ask, did Swinney assign the mortgage without any trouble?"

"O Lord! yes," was the reply. "The' wa'n't nothin' else fer him to do. I had another twist
on him that I hain't mentioned. But he put up a great show of doin' it to obleege me. Wa'al,
I thanked him an' so on, an' when we'd got through I ast him if he wouldn't step over to the
'Eagil' an' take somethin', an' he looked kind o' shocked an' said he never drinked nothin'.
It was 'gin his princ'ples, he said. Ho, ho, ho, ho! Scat my ----! Princ'ples!" and John heard
him chuckling to himself all the way out of the office.

CHAPTER XVIII.

Considering John's relations with David Harum, it was natural that he should wish to think
as well of him as possible, and he had not (or thought he had not) allowed his mind to be influenced
by the disparaging remarks and insinuations which had been made to him, or in his presence,
concerning his employer. He had made up his mind to form his opinion upon his own experience
with the man, and so far it had not only been pleasant but favorable, and far from justifying
the half-jeering, half-malicious talk that had come to his ears. It had been made manifest
to him, it was true, that David was capable of a sharp bargain in certain lines, but it seemed
to him that it was more for the pleasure of matching his wits against another's than for any
gain involved. Mr. Harum was an experienced and expert horseman, who delighted above all things
in dealing in and trading horses, and John soon discovered that, in that community at least,
to get the best of a "hoss-trade" by almost any means was considered a venial sin, if a sin
at all, and the standards of ordinary business probity were not expected to govern those transactions.

David had said to him once when he suspected that John's ideas might have sustained something
of a shock, "A hoss-trade ain't like anythin' else. A feller may be straighter 'n a string
in ev'rythin' else, an' never tell the truth--that is, the hull truth--about a hoss. I trade
hosses with hoss-traders. They all think they know as much as I do, an' I dunno but what they
do. They hain't learnt no diff'rent anyway, an' they've had chances enough. If a feller come
to me that didn't think he knowed anythin' about a hoss, an' wanted to buy on the square, he'd
git, fur's I knew, square treatment. At any rate I'd tell him all 't I knew. But when one o'
them smart Alecks comes along and cal'lates to do up old Dave, why he's got to take his chances,
that's all. An' mind ye," asserted David, shaking his forefinger impressively, "it ain't only
them fellers. I've ben wuss stuck two three time by church members in good standin' than anybody
I ever dealed with. Take old Deakin Perkins. He's a terrible feller fer church bus'nis; c'n
pray an' psalm-sing to beat the Jews, an' in spiritual matters c'n read his title clear the
hull time, but when it comes to hoss-tradin' you got to git up very early in the mornin' or
he'll skin the eyeteeth out of ye. Yes, sir! Scat my ----! I believe the old critter makes
hosses! But the deakin," added David, "he, he, he, he! the deakin hain't hardly spoke to me
fer some consid'able time, the deakin hain't. He, he, he!

"Another thing," he went on, "the' ain't no gamble like a hoss. You may think you know him
through an' through, an' fust thing you know he'll be cuttin' up a lot o' didos right out o'
nothin'. It stands to reason that sometimes you let a hoss go all on the square--as you know
him--an' the feller that gits him don't know how to hitch him or treat him, an' he acts like
a diff'rent hoss, an' the feller allows you swindled him. You see, hosses gits used to places
an' ways to a certain extent, an' when they're changed, why they're apt to act diff'rent. Hosses
don't know but dreadful little, really. Talk about hoss sense--wa'al, the' ain't no such thing."

Thus spoke David on the subject of his favorite pursuit and pastime, and John thought then
that he could understand and condone some things he had seen and heard, at which at first he
was inclined to look askance. But this matter of the Widow Cullom's was a different thing,
and as he realized that he was expected to play a part, though a small one, in it, his heart
sank within him that he had so far cast his fortunes upon the good will of a man who could
plan and carry out so heartless and cruel an undertaking as that which had been revealed to
him that afternoon. He spent the evening in his room trying to read, but the widow's affairs
persistently thrust themselves upon his thoughts. All the unpleasant stories he had heard of
David came to his mind, and he remembered with misgiving some things which at the time had
seemed regular and right enough, but which took on a different color in the light in which
he found himself recalling them. He debated with himself whether he should not decline to send
Mrs. Cullom the notice as he had been instructed, and left it an open question when he went to bed.

He wakened somewhat earlier than usual to find that the thermometer had gone up, and the barometer
down. The air was full of a steady downpour, half snow, half rain, about the most disheartening
combination which the worst climate in the world--that of central New York--can furnish. He
passed rather a busy day in the office in an atmosphere redolent of the unsavory odors raised
by the proximity of wet boots and garments to the big cylinder stove outside the counter, a
compound of stale smells from kitchen and stable.

After the bank closed he dispatched Peleg Hopkins, the office boy, with the note for Mrs. Cullom.
He had abandoned his half-formed intention to revolt, but had made the note not only as little
peremptory as was compatible with a clear intimation of its purport as he understood it, but
had yielded to a natural impulse in beginning it with an expression of personal regret--a blunder
which cost him no little chagrin in the outcome.

Peleg Hopkins grumbled audibly when he was requested to build the fires on Christmas day, and
expressed his opinion that "if there warn't Bible agin workin' on Chris'mus, the' 'd ort ter
be"; but when John opened the door of the bank that morning he found the temperature in comfortable
contrast to the outside air. The weather had changed again, and a blinding snowstorm, accompanied
by a buffeting gale from the northwest, made it almost impossible to see a path and to keep
it. In the central part of the town some tentative efforts had been made to open walks, but
these were apparent only as slight and tortuous depressions in the depths of snow. In the outskirts,
the unfortunate pedestrian had to wade to the knees.

As John went behind the counter his eye was at once caught by a small parcel lying on his desk,
of white note paper, tied with a cotton string, which he found to be addressed, "Mr. John Lenox,
Esq., Present," and as he took it up it seemed heavy for its size.

Opening it, he found a tiny stocking, knit of white wool, to which was pinned a piece of paper
with the legend, "A Merry Christmas from Aunt Polly." Out of the stocking fell a packet fastened
with a rubber strap. Inside were five ten-dollar gold pieces and a slip of paper on which was
written, "A Merry Christmas from Your Friend David Harum." For a moment John's face burned,
and there was a curious smarting of the eyelids as he held the little stocking and its contents
in his hand. Surely the hand that had written "Your Friend" on that scrap of paper could not
be the hand of an oppressor of widows and orphans. "This," said John to himself, "is what he
meant when 'he supposed it wouldn't take me long to find out what was in my stocking.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

The door opened and a blast and whirl of wind and snow rushed in, ushering the tall, bent form
of the Widow Cullom. The drive of the wind was so strong that John vaulted over the low cash
counter to push the door shut again. The poor woman was white with snow from the front of her
old worsted hood to the bottom of her ragged skirt.

"You are Mrs. Cullom?" said John. "Wait a moment till I brush off the snow, and then come to
the fire in the back room. Mr. Harum will be in directly, I expect."

"Be I much late?" she asked. "I made 's much haste 's I could. It don't appear to me 's if
I ever see a blusteriner day, 'n I ain't as strong as I used to be. Seemed as if I never would
git here."

"Oh, no," said John, as he established her before the glowing grate of the Franklin stove in
the bank parlor, "not at all. Mr. Harum has not come in himself yet. Shall you mind if I excuse
myself a moment while you make yourself as comfortable as possible?" She did not apparently
hear him. She was trembling from head to foot with cold and fatigue and nervous excitement.
Her dress was soaked to the knees, and as she sat down and put up her feet to the fire John
saw a bit of a thin cotton stocking and her deplorable shoes, almost in a state of pulp. A
snow-obliterated path led from the back door of the office to David's house, and John snatched
his hat and started for it on a run. As he stamped off some of the snow on the veranda the
door was opened for him by Mrs. Bixbee. "Lord sakes!" she exclaimed. "What on earth be you
cavortin' 'round for such a mornin' 's this without no overcoat, an' on a dead run? What's
the matter?"

"Nothing serious," he answered, "but I'm in a great hurry. Old Mrs. Cullom has walked up from
her house to the office, and she is wet through and almost perished. I thought you'd send her
some dry shoes and stockings, and an old shawl or blanket to keep her wet skirt off her knees,
and a drop of whisky or something. She's all of a tremble, and I'm afraid she will have a chill."

"Certain! certain!" said the kind creature, and she bustled out of the room, returning in a
minute or two with an armful of comforts. "There's a pair of bedroom slips lined with lamb's
wool, an' a pair of woolen stockin's, an' a blanket shawl. This here petticut, 't ain't what
ye'd call bran' new, but it's warm and comf'table, an' I don't believe she's got much of anythin'
on 'ceptin' her dress, an' I'll git ye the whisky, but"--here she looked deprecatingly at John--"it
ain't gen'ally known 't we keep the stuff in the house. I don't know as it's right, but though
David don't hardly ever touch it he will have it in the house."

"Oh," said John, laughing, "you may trust my discretion, and we'll swear Mrs. Cullom to secrecy."

"Wa'al, all right," said Mrs. Bixbee, joining in the laugh as she brought the bottle; "jest
a minute till I make a passel of the things to keep the snow out. There, now, I guess you're
fixed, an' you kin hurry back 'fore she ketches a chill."

"Thanks very much," said John as he started away. "I have something to say to you besides 'Merry
Christmas,' but I must wait till another time."

When John got back to the office David had just preceded him.

"Wa'al, wa'al," he was saying, "but you be in a putty consid'able state. Hullo, John! what
you got there? Wa'al, you air the stuff! Slips, blanket-shawl, petticut, stockin's--wa'al,
you an' Polly ben puttin' your heads together, I guess. What's that? Whisky! Wa'al, scat my
----! I didn't s'pose wild hosses would have drawed it out o' Polly to let on the' was any
in the house, much less to fetch it out. Jest the thing! Oh, yes ye are, Mis' Cullom--jest
a mouthful with water," taking the glass from John, "jest a spoonful to git your blood a-goin',
an' then Mr. Lenox an' me 'll go into the front room while you make yourself comf'table."

"Consarn it all!" exclaimed Mr. Harum as they stood leaning against the teller's counter, facing
the street, "I didn't cal'late to have Mis' Cullom hoof it up here the way she done. When I
see what kind of a day it was I went out to the barn to have the cutter hitched an' send for
her, an' I found ev'rythin' topsy-turvy. That dum'd uneasy sorril colt had got cast in the
stall, an' I ben fussin' with him ever since. I clean forgot all 'bout Mis' Cullom till jest now."

"Is the colt much injured?" John asked.

"Wa'al, he won't trot a twenty gait in some time, I reckon," replied David. "He's wrenched
his shoulder some, an' mebbe strained his inside. Don't seem to take no int'rist in his feed,
an' that's a bad sign. Consarn a hoss, anyhow! If they're wuth anythin' they're more bother
'n a teethin' baby. Alwus some dum thing ailin' 'em, an' I took consid'able stock in that colt
too," he added regretfully, "an' I could 'a' got putty near what I was askin' fer him last
week, an' putty near what he was wuth, an' I've noticed that most gen'ally alwus when I let
a good offer go like that, some cussed thing happens to the hoss. It ain't a bad idee, in the
hoss bus'nis anyway, to be willin' to let the other feller make a dollar once 'n a while."

After that aphorism they waited in silence for a few minutes, and then David called out over
his shoulder, "How be you gettin' along, Mis' Cullom?"

"I guess I'm fixed," she answered, and David walked slowly back into the parlor, leaving John
in the front office. He was annoyed to realize that in the bustle over Mrs. Cullom and what
followed, he had forgotten to acknowledge the Christmas gift; but, hoping that Mr. Harum had
been equally oblivious, promised himself to repair the omission later on. He would have preferred
to go out and leave the two to settle their affair without witness or hearer, but his employer,
who, as he had found, usually had a reason for his actions, had explicitly requested him to
remain, and he had no choice. He perched himself upon one of the office stools and composed
himself to await the conclusion of the affair.

CHAPTER XIX.

Mrs. Cullom was sitting at one corner of the fire, and David drew a chair opposite to her.

"Feelin' all right now? whisky hain't made ye liable to no disorderly conduct, has it?" he
asked with a laugh.

"Yes, thank you," was the reply, "the warm things are real comfortin', 'n' I guess I hain't
had licker enough to make me want to throw things. You got a kind streak in ye, Dave Harum,
if you did send me this here note--but I s'pose ye know your own bus'nis," she added with a
sigh of resignation. "I ben fearin' fer a good while 't I couldn't hold on t' that prop'ty,
an' I don't know but what you might's well git it as 'Zeke Swinney, though I ben hopin' 'gainst
hope that Charley 'd be able to do more 'n he has."

"Let's see the note," said David curtly. "H'm, humph, 'regret to say that I have been instructed
by Mr. Harum'--wa'al, h'm'm, cal'lated to clear his own skirts anyway--h'm'm--'must be closed
up without further delay' (John's eye caught the little white stocking which still lay on his
desk)--wa'al, yes, that's about what I told Mr. Lenox to say fur's the bus'nis part's concerned--I
might 'a' done my own regrettin' if I'd wrote the note myself." (John said something to himself.)
"'T ain't the pleasantest thing in the world fer ye, I allow, but then you see, bus'nis is
bus'nis."

John heard David clear his throat, and there was a hiss in the open fire. Mrs. Cullom was silent,
and David resumed:

"You see, Mis' Cullom, it's like this. I ben thinkin' of this matter fer a good while. That
place ain't ben no real good to ye sence the first year you signed that morgidge. You hain't
scurcely more'n made ends meet, let alone the int'rist, an' it's ben simply a question o' time,
an' who'd git the prop'ty in the long run fer some years. I reckoned, same as you did, that
Charley 'd mebbe come to the front--but he hain't done it, an' 't ain't likely he ever will.
Charley's a likely 'nough boy some ways, but he hain't got much 'git there' in his make-up,
not more'n enough fer one anyhow, I reckon. That's about the size on't, ain't it?"

Mrs. Cullom murmured a feeble admission that she was "'fraid it was."

"Wa'al," resumed Mr. Harum, "I see how things was goin', an' I see that unless I played euchre,
'Zeke Swinney 'd git that prop'ty, an' whether I wanted it myself or not, I didn't cal'late
he sh'd git it anyway. He put a spoke in my wheel once, an' I hain't forgot it. But that hain't
neither here nor there. Wa'al," after a short pause, "you know I helped ye pull the thing along
on the chance, as ye may say, that you an' your son 'd somehow make a go on't."

"You ben very kind, so fur," said the widow faintly.

"Don't ye say that, don't ye say that," protested David. "'T wa'n't no kindness. It was jest
bus'nis: I wa'n't takin' no chances, an' I s'pose I might let the thing run a spell longer
if I c'd see any use in't. But the' ain't, an' so I ast ye to come up this mornin' so 't we
c'd settle the thing up without no fuss, nor trouble, nor lawyer's fees, nor nothin'. I've
got the papers all drawed, an' John--Mr. Lenox--here to take the acknowlidgments. You hain't
no objection to windin' the thing up this mornin', have ye?"

"I s'pose I'll have to do whatever you say," replied the poor woman in a tone of hopeless discouragement,
"an' I might as well be killed to once, as to die by inch pieces."

"All right then," said David cheerfully, ignoring her lethal suggestion, "but before we git
down to bus'nis an' signin' papers, an' in order to set myself in as fair a light 's I can
in the matter, I want to tell ye a little story."

"I hain't no objection 's I know of," acquiesced the widow graciously.

"All right," said David, "I won't preach more 'n about up to the sixthly--How'd you feel if
I was to light up a cigar? I hain't much of a hand at a yarn, an' if I git stuck, I c'n puff
a spell. Thank ye. Wa'al, Mis' Cullom, you used to know somethin' about my folks. I was raised
on Buxton Hill. The' was nine on us, an' I was the youngest o' the lot. My father farmed a
piece of about forty to fifty acres, an' had a small shop where he done odd times small jobs
of tinkerin' fer the neighbors when the' was anythin' to do. My mother was his second, an'
I was the only child of that marriage. He married agin when I was about two year old, an' how
I ever got raised 's more 'n I c'n tell ye. My sister Polly was 'sponsible more 'n any one,
I guess, an' the only one o' the whole lot that ever gin me a decent word. Small farmin' ain't
cal'lated to fetch out the best traits of human nature--an' keep 'em out--an' it seems to me
sometimes that when the old man wa'n't cuffin' my ears he was lickin' me with a rawhide or
a strap. Fur 's that was concerned, all his boys used to ketch it putty reg'lar till they got
too big. One on 'em up an' licked him one night, an' lit out next day. I s'pose the old man's
disposition was sp'iled by what some feller said farmin' was, 'workin' all day, an' doin' chores
all night,' an' larrupin' me an' all the rest on us was about all the enjoyment he got. My
brothers an' sisters--'ceptin' of Polly--was putty nigh as bad in respect of cuffs an' such
like; an' my step-marm was, on the hull, the wust of all. She hadn't no childern o' her own,
an' it appeared 's if I was jest pizen to her. 'T wa'n't so much slappin' an' cuffin' with
her as 't was tongue. She c'd say things that 'd jest raise a blister like pizen ivy. I s'pose
I was about as ord'nary, no-account-lookin', red-headed, freckled little cuss as you ever see,
an' slinkin' in my manners. The air of our home circle wa'n't cal'lated to raise heroes in.

"I got three four years' schoolin', an' made out to read an' write an' cipher up to long division
'fore I got through, but after I got to be six year old, school or no school, I had to work
reg'lar at anything I had strength fer, an' more too. Chores before school an' after school,
an' a two-mile walk to git there. As fur 's clo'es was concerned, any old thing that 'd hang
together was good enough fer me; but by the time the older boys had outgrowed their duds, an'
they was passed on to me, the' wa'n't much left on 'em. A pair of old cowhide boots that leaked
in more snow an' water 'n they kept out, an' a couple pairs of woolen socks that was putty
much all darns, was expected to see me through the winter, an' I went barefoot f'm the time
the snow was off the ground till it flew agin in the fall. The' wa'n't but two seasons o' the
year with me--them of chilblains an' stun-bruises."

The speaker paused and stared for a moment into the comfortable glow of the fire, and then
discovering to his apparent surprise that his cigar had gone out, lighted it from a coal picked
out with the tongs.

"Farmin' 's a hard life," remarked Mrs. Cullom with an air of being expected to make some contribution
to the conversation.

"An' yit, as it seems to me as I look back on't," David resumed pensively, "the wust on't was
that nobody ever gin me a kind word, 'cept Polly. I s'pose I got kind o' used to bein' cold
an' tired; dressin' in a snowdrift where it blowed into the attic, an' goin' out to fodder
cattle 'fore sun-up; pickin' up stun in the blazin' sun, an' doin' all the odd jobs my father
set me to, an' the older ones shirked onto me. That was the reg'lar order o' things; but I
remember I never did git used to never pleasin' nobody. 'Course I didn't expect nothin' f'm
my step-marm, an' the only way I ever knowed I'd done my stent fur 's father was concerned,
was that he didn't say nothin'. But sometimes the older ones 'd git settin' 'round, talkin'
an' laughin', havin' pop corn an' apples, an' that, an' I'd kind o' sidle up, wantin' to join
'em, an' some on 'em 'd say, 'What you doin' here? time you was in bed,' an' give me a shove
or a cuff. Yes, ma'am," looking up at Mrs. Cullom, "the wust on't was that I was kind o' scairt
the hull time. Once in a while Polly 'd give me a mossel o' comfort, but Polly wa'n't but little
older 'n me, an' bein' the youngest girl, was chored most to death herself."

It had stopped snowing, and though the wind still came in gusty blasts, whirling the drift
against the windows, a wintry gleam of sunshine came in and touched the widow's wrinkled face.

"It's amazin' how much trouble an' sorrer the' is in the world, an' how soon it begins," she
remarked, moving a little to avoid the sunlight. "I hain't never ben able to reconcile how
many good things the' be, an' how little most on us gits o' them. I hain't ben to meetin' fer
a long spell 'cause I hain't had no fit clo'es, but I remember most of the preachin' I've set
under either dwelt on the wrath to come, or else on the Lord's doin' all things well, an' providin'.
I hope I ain't no wickeder 'n than the gen'ral run, but it's putty hard to hev faith in the
Lord's providin' when you hain't got nothin' in the house but corn meal, an' none too much
o' that."

"That's so, Mis' Cullom, that's so," affirmed David. "I don't blame ye a mite. 'Doubts assail,
an' oft prevail,' as the hymn-book says, an' I reckon it's a sight easier to have faith on
meat an' potatoes 'n it is on corn meal mush. Wa'al, as I was sayin'--I hope I ain't tirin'
ye with my goin's on?"

"No," said Mrs. Cullom, "I'm engaged to hear ye, but nobody 'd suppose to see ye now that ye
was such a f'lorn little critter as you make out."

"It's jest as I'm tellin' ye, an' more also, as the Bible says," returned David, and then,
rather more impressively, as if he were leading up to his conclusion, "it come along to a time
when I was 'twixt thirteen an' fourteen. The' was a cirkis billed to show down here in Homeville,
an' ev'ry barn an' shed fer miles around had pictures stuck onto 'em of el'phants, an' rhinoceroses,
an' ev'ry animul that went into the ark; an' girls ridin' bareback an' jumpin' through hoops,
an' fellers ridin' bareback an' turnin' summersets, an' doin' turnovers on swings; an' clowns
gettin' hoss-whipped, an' ev'ry kind of a thing that could be pictered out; an' how the' was
to be a grand percession at ten o'clock, 'ith golden chariots, an' scripteral allegories, an'
the hull bus'nis; an' the gran' performance at two o'clock; admission twenty-five cents, children
under twelve, at cetery, an' so forth. Wa'al, I hadn't no more idee o' goin' to that cirkis
'n I had o' flyin' to the moon, but the night before the show somethin' waked me 'bout twelve
o'clock. I don't know how 't was. I'd ben helpin' mend fence all day, an' gen'ally I never
knowed nothin' after my head struck the bed till mornin'. But that night, anyhow, somethin'
waked me, an' I went an' looked out the windo', an' there was the hull thing goin' by the house.
The' was more or less moon, an' I see the el'phant, an' the big wagins--the drivers kind o'
noddin' over the dashboards--an' the chariots with canvas covers--I don't know how many of
'em--an' the cages of the tigers an' lions, an' all. Wa'al, I got up the next mornin' at sun-up
an' done my chores; an' after breakfust I set off fer the ten-acre lot where I was mendin'
fence. The ten-acre was the farthest off of any, Homeville way, an' I had my dinner in a tin
pail so't I needn't lose no time goin' home at noon, an', as luck would have it, the' wa'n't
nobody with me that mornin'. Wa'al, I got down to the lot an' set to work; but somehow I couldn't
git that show out o' my head nohow. As I said, I hadn't no more notion of goin' to that cirkis
'n I had of kingdom come. I'd never had two shillin' of my own in my hull life. But the more
I thought on't the uneasier I got. Somethin' seemed pullin' an' haulin' at me, an' fin'ly I
gin in. I allowed I'd see that percession anyway if it took a leg, an' mebbe I c'd git back
'ithout nobody missin' me. 'T any rate, I'd take the chances of a lickin' jest once--fer that's
what it meant--an' I up an' put fer the village lickity-cut. I done them four mile lively,
I c'n tell ye, an' the stun-bruises never hurt me once.

"When I got down to the village it seemed to me as if the hull population of Freeland County
was there. I'd never seen so many folks together in my life, an' fer a spell it seemed to me
as if ev'rybody was a-lookin' at me an' sayin', 'That's old Harum's boy Dave, playin' hookey,'
an' I sneaked 'round dreadin' somebody 'd give me away; but I fin'ly found that nobody wa'n't
payin' any attention to me--they was there to see the show, an' one red-headed boy more or
less wa'n't no pertic'ler account. Wa'al, putty soon the percession hove in sight, an' the'
was a reg'lar stampede among the boys, an' when it got by, I run an' ketched up with it agin,
an' walked alongside the el'phant, tin pail an' all, till they fetched up inside the tent.
Then I went off to one side--it must 'a' ben about 'leven or half-past, an' eat my dinner--I
had a devourin' appetite--an' thought I'd jest walk round a spell, an' then light out fer home.
But the' was so many things to see an' hear--all the side-show pictures of Fat Women, an' Livin'
Skelitons; an' Wild Women of Madygasker, an' Wild Men of Borneo; an' snakes windin' round women's
necks; hand-orgins; fellers that played the 'cordion, an' mouth-pipes, an' drum an' cymbals
all to once, an' such like--that I fergot all about the time an' the ten-acre lot, an' the
stun fence, an' fust I knowed the folks was makin' fer the ticket wagin, an' the band begun
to play inside the tent. Be I taxin' your patience over the limit?" said David, breaking off
in his story and addressing Mrs. Cullom more directly.

"No, I guess not," she replied; "I was jest thinkin' of a circus I went to once," she added
with an audible sigh.

"Wa'al," said David, taking a last farewell of the end of his cigar, which he threw into the
grate, "mebbe what's comin' 'll int'rest ye more 'n the rest on't has. I was standin' gawpin'
'round, list'nin' to the band an' watchin' the folks git their tickets, when all of a suddin
I felt a twitch at my hair--it had a way of workin' out of the holes in my old chip straw hat--an'
somebody says to me, 'Wa'al, sonny, what you thinkin' of?' he says. I looked up, an' who do
you s'pose it was? It was Billy P. Cullom! I knowed who he was, fer I'd seen him before, but
of course he didn't know me. Yes, ma'am, it was Billy P., an' wa'n't he rigged out to kill!"

The speaker paused and looked into the fire, smiling. The woman started forward facing him,
and clasping her hands, cried, "My husband! What'd he have on?"

"Wa'al," said David slowly and reminiscently, "near's I c'n remember, he had on a blue broad-cloth
claw-hammer coat with flat gilt buttons, an' a double-breasted plaid velvet vest, an' pearl-gray
pants, strapped down over his boots, which was of shiny leather, an' a high pointed collar
an' blue stock with a pin in it (I remember wonderin' if it c'd be real gold), an' a yeller-white
plug beaver hat."

At the description of each article of attire Mrs. Cullom nodded her head, with her eyes fixed
on David's face, and as he concluded she broke out breathlessly, "Oh, yes! Oh, yes! David,
he wore them very same clo'es, an' he took me to that very same show that very same night!"
There was in her face a look almost of awe, as if a sight of her long-buried past youth had
been shown to her from a coffin.

Neither spoke for a moment or two, and it was the widow who broke the silence. As David had
conjectured, she was interested at last, and sat leaning forward with her hands clasped in her lap.

"Well," she exclaimed, "ain't ye goin' on? What did he say to ye?"

"Cert'nly, cert'nly," responded David, "I'll tell ye near 's I c'n remember, an' I c'n remember
putty near. As I told ye, I felt a twitch at my hair, an' he said, 'What be you thinkin' about,
sonny?' I looked up at him, an' looked away quick. 'I dunno,' I says, diggin' my big toe into
the dust; an' then, I dunno how I got the spunk to, for I was shyer 'n a rat, 'Guess I was
thinkin' 'bout mendin' that fence up in the ten-acre lot's much's anythin',' I says.

"'Ain't you goin' to the cirkis?' he says.

"'I hain't got no money to go to cirkises,' I says, rubbin' the dusty toes o' one foot over
t' other, 'nor nothin' else,' I says.

"'Wa'al,' he says, 'why don't you crawl under the canvas?'

"That kind o' riled me, shy 's I was. 'I don't crawl under no canvases,' I says. 'If I can't
go in same 's other folks, I'll stay out,' I says, lookin' square at him fer the fust time.
He wa'n't exac'ly smilin', but the' was a look in his eyes that was the next thing to it."

"Lordy me!" sighed Mrs. Cullom, as if to herself. "How well I can remember that look; jest
as if he was laughin' at ye, an' wa'n't laughin' at ye, an' his arm around your neck!"

David nodded in reminiscent sympathy, and rubbed his bald poll with the back of his hand.

"Wa'al," interjected the widow.

"Wa'al," said David, resuming, "he says to me, 'Would you like to go to the cirkis?' an' with
that it occurred to me that I did want to go to that cirkis more'n anythin' I ever wanted to
before--nor since, it seems to me. But I tell ye the truth, I was so far f'm expectin' to go't
I really hadn't knowed I wanted to. I looked at him, an' then down agin, an' began tenderin'
up a stun-bruise on one heel agin the other instep, an' all I says was, bein' so dum'd shy,
'I dunno,' I says. But I guess he seen in my face what my feelin's was, fer he kind o' laughed
an' pulled out half-a-dollar an' says: 'D' you think you could git a couple o' tickits in that
crowd? If you kin, I think I'll go myself, but I don't want to git my boots all dust,' he says.
I allowed I c'd try; an' I guess them bare feet o' mine tore up the dust some gettin' over
to the wagin. Wa'al, I had another scare gettin' the tickits, fer fear some one that knowed
me 'd see me with a half-a-dollar, an' think I must 'a' stole the money. But I got 'em an'
carried 'em back to him, an' he took 'em an' put 'em in his vest pocket, an' handed me a ten-cent
piece, an' says, 'Mebbe you'll want somethin' in the way of refreshments fer yourself an' mebbe
the el'phant,' he says, an' walked off toward the tent; an' I stood stun still, lookin' after
him. He got off about a rod or so an' stopped an' looked back. 'Ain't you comin'?' he says.

"'Be I goin' with you?" I says.

"'Why not?' he says, ''nless you'd ruther go alone,' an' he put his finger an' thumb into his
vest pocket. Wa'al, ma'am, I looked at him a minute, with his shiny hat an' boots, an' fine
clo'es, an' gold pin, an' thought of my ragged ole shirt, an' cotton pants, an' ole chip hat
with the brim most gone, an' my tin pail an' all. 'I ain't fit to,' I says, ready to cry--an'--wa'al,
he jest laughed, an' says, 'Nonsense,' he says, 'come along. A man needn't be ashamed of his
workin' clo'es,' he says, an' I'm dum'd if he didn't take holt of my hand, an' in we went that
way together."

"How like him that was!" said the widow softly.

"Yes, ma'am, yes, ma'am, I reckon it was," said David, nodding.

"Wa'al," he went on after a little pause, "I was ready to sink into the ground with shyniss
at fust, but that wore off some after a little, an' we two seen the hull show, I tell ye. We
walked 'round the cages, an' we fed the el'phant--that is, he bought the stuff an' I fed him.
I 'member--he, he, he!--'t he says, 'mind you git the right end,' he says, an' then we got
a couple o' seats, an' the doin's begun."

CHAPTER XX.

The widow was looking at David with shining eyes and devouring his words. All the years of
trouble and sorrow and privation were wiped out, and she was back in the days of her girlhood.
Ah, yes! how well she remembered him as he looked that very day--so handsome, so splendidly
dressed, so debonair; and how proud she had been to sit by his side that night, observed and
envied of all the village girls.

"I ain't goin' to go over the hull show," proceeded David, "well 's I remember it. The' didn't
nothin' git away from me that afternoon, an' once I come near to stickin' a piece o' gingerbread
into my ear 'stid o' my mouth. I had my ten-cent piece that Billy P. give me, but he wouldn't
let me buy nothin'; an' when the gingerbread man come along he says, 'Air ye hungry, Dave?
(I'd told him my name), air ye hungry?' Wa'al, I was a growin' boy, an' I was hungry putty
much all the time. He bought two big squares an' gin me one, an' when I'd swallered it, he
says, 'Guess you better tackle this one too,' he says, 'I've dined.' I didn't exac'ly know
what 'dined' meant, but--he, he, he, he!--I tackled it," and David smacked his lips in memory.

"Wa'al," he went on, "we done the hull programmy--gingerbread, lemonade--pink lemonade, an'
he took some o' that--pop corn, peanuts, pep'mint candy, cin'mun candy--scat my ----! an' he
payin' fer ev'rythin'--I thought he was jest made o' money! An' I remember how we talked about
all the doin's; the ridin', an' jumpin', an' summersettin', an' all--fer he'd got all the shyniss
out of me for the time--an' once I looked up at him, an' he looked down at me with that curious
look in his eyes an' put his hand on my shoulder. Wa'al, now, I tell ye, I had a queer, crinkly
feelin' go up an' down my back, an' I like to up an' cried."

"Dave," said the widow, "I kin see you two as if you was settin' there front of me. He was
alwus like that. Oh, my! Oh, my! David," she added solemnly, while two tears rolled slowly
down her wrinkled face, "we lived together, husban' an' wife, fer seven year, an' he never
give me a cross word."

"I don't doubt it a mossel," said David simply, leaning over and poking the fire, which operation
kept his face out of her sight and was prolonged rather unduly. Finally he straightened up
and, blowing his nose as it were a trumpet, said:

"Wa'al, the cirkis fin'ly come to an end, an' the crowd hustled to git out 's if they was afraid
the tent 'd come down on 'em. I got kind o' mixed up in 'em, an' somebody tried to git my tin
pail, or I thought he did, an' the upshot was that I lost sight o' Billy P., an' couldn't make
out to ketch a glimpse of him nowhere. An' then I kind o' come down to earth, kerchug! It was
five o'clock, an' I had better 'n four mile to walk--mostly up hill--an' if I knowed anything
'bout the old man, an' I thought I did, I had the all-firedist lickin' ahead of me 't I'd ever
got, an' that was sayin' a good deal. But, boy 's I was, I had grit enough to allow 't was
wuth it, an' off I put."

"Did he lick ye much?" inqured Mrs. Cullom anxiously.

"Wa'al," replied David, "he done his best. He was layin' fer me when I struck the front gate--I
knowed it wa'n't no use to try the back door, an' he took me by the ear--most pulled it off--an'
marched me off to the barn shed without a word. I never see him so mad. Seemed like he couldn't
speak fer a while, but fin'ly he says, 'Where you ben all day?'

"'Down t' the village,' I says.

"'What you ben up to down there?' he says.

"'Went to the cirkis,' I says, thinkin' I might 's well make a clean breast on't.

"'Where 'd you git the money?' he says.

"'Mr. Cullom took me,' I says.

"'You lie,' he says. 'You stole the money somewheres, an' I'll trounce it out of ye, if I kill
ye,' he says.

"Wa'al," said David, twisting his shoulders in recollection, "I won't harrer up your feelin's.
'S I told you, he done his best. I was willin' to quit long 'fore he was. Fact was, he overdone
it a little, an' he had to throw water in my face 'fore he got through; an' he done that as
thorough as the other thing. I was somethin' like a chickin jest out o' the cistern. I crawled
off to bed the best I could, but I didn't lay on my back fer a good spell, I c'n tell ye."

"You poor little critter," exclaimed Mrs. Cullom sympathetically. "You poor little critter!"

"'T was more'n wuth it, Mis' Cullom," said David emphatically. "I'd had the most enjoy'ble
day, I might say the only enjoy'ble day, 't I'd ever had in my hull life, an' I hain't never
fergot it. I got over the lickin' in course of time, but I've ben enjoyin' that cirkis fer
forty year. The' wa'n't but one thing to hender, an' that's this, that I hain't never ben able
to remember--an' to this day I lay awake nights tryin' to--that I said 'Thank ye' to Billy
P., an' I never seen him after that day."

"How's that?" asked Mrs. Cullom.

"Wa'al," was the reply, "that day was the turnin' point with me. The next night I lit out with
what duds I c'd git together, an' as much grub 's I could pack in that tin pail; an' the next
time I see the old house on Buxton Hill the' hadn't ben no Harums in it fer years."

Here David rose from his chair, yawned and stretched himself, and stood with his back to the
fire. The widow looked up anxiously into his face. "Is that all?" she asked after a while.

"Wa'al, it is an' it ain't. I've got through yarnin' about Dave Harum at any rate, an' mebbe
we'd better have a little confab on your matters, seein' 't I've got you 'way up here such
a mornin' 's this. I gen'ally do bus'nis fust an' talkin' afterward," he added, "but I kind
o' got to goin' an' kept on this time."

He put his hand into the breast pocket of his coat and took out three papers, which he shuffled
in review as if to verify their identity, and then held them in one hand, tapping them softly
upon the palm of the other, as if at a loss how to begin. The widow sat with her eyes fastened
upon the papers, trembling with nervous apprehension. Presently he broke the silence.

"About this here morgidge o' your'n," he said, "I sent ye word that I wanted to close the matter
up, an' seein' 't you're here an' come fer that purpose, I guess we'd better make a job on't.
The' ain't no time like the present, as the sayin' is."

"I s'pose it'll hev to be as you say," said the widow in a shaking voice.

"Mis' Cullom," said David solemnly, "you know, an' I know, that I've got the repitation of
bein' a hard, graspin', schemin' man. Mebbe I be. Mebbe I've ben hard done by all my hull life,
an' have had to be; an' mebbe, now 't I've got ahead some, it's got to be second nature, an'
I can't seem to help it. 'Bus'nis is bus'nis' ain't part of the golden rule, I allow, but the
way it gen'ally runs, fur 's I've found out, is, 'Do unto the other feller the way he'd like
to do unto you, an' do it fust.' But, if you want to keep this thing a-runnin' as it's goin'
on now fer a spell longer, say one year, or two, or even three, you may, only I've got somethin'
to say to ye 'fore ye elect."

"Wa'al," said the poor woman, "I expect it 'd only be pilin' up wrath agin' the day o' wrath.
I can't pay the int'rist now without starvin', an' I hain't got no one to bid in the prop'ty
fer me if it was to be sold."

"Mis' Cullom," said David, "I said I'd got somethin' more to tell ye, an' if, when I git through,
you don't think I've treated you right, includin' this mornin's confab, I hope you'll fergive
me. It's this, an' I'm the only person livin' that 's knowin' to it, an' in fact I may say
that I'm the only person that ever was really knowin' to it. It was before you was married,
an' I'm sure he never told ye, fer I don't doubt he fergot all about it, but your husband,
Billy P. Cullom, that was, made a small investment once on a time, yes, ma'am, he did, an'
in his kind of careless way it jest slipped his mind. The amount of cap'tal he put in wa'n't
large, but the rate of int'rist was uncommon high. Now, he never drawed no dividends on't,
an' they've ben 'cumulatin' fer forty year, more or less, at compound int'rist."

The widow started forward, as if to rise from her seat. David put his hand out gently and said,
"Jest a minute, Mis' Cullom, jest a minute, till I git through. Part o' that cap'tal," he resumed,
"consistin' of a quarter an' some odd cents, was invested in the cirkis bus'nis, an' the rest
on't--the cap'tal, an' all the cash cap'tal that I started in bus'nis with--was the ten cents
your husband give me that day, an' here," said David, striking the papers in his left hand
with the back of his right, "here is the dividends! This here second morgidge, not bein' on
record, may jest as well go onto the fire--it's gettin' low--an' here's a satisfaction piece
which I'm goin' to execute now, that'll clear the thousan' dollar one. Come in here, John,"
he called out.

The widow stared at David for a moment speechless, but as the significance of his words dawned
upon her, the blood flushed darkly in her face. She sprang to her feet and, throwing up her
arms, cried out: "My Lord! My Lord! Dave! Dave Harum! Is it true?--tell me it's true! You ain't
foolin' me, air ye, Dave? You wouldn't fool a poor old woman that never done ye no harm, nor
said a mean word agin ye, would ye? Is it true? an' is my place clear? an' I don't owe nobody
anythin'--I mean, no money? Tell it agin. Oh, tell it agin! Oh, Dave! it's too good to be true!
Oh! Oh! Oh, my! an' here I be cryin' like a great baby, an', an'"--fumbling in her pocket--"I
do believe I hain't got no hank'chif--Oh, thank ye," to John; "I'll do it up an' send it back
to-morrer. Oh, what made ye do it, Dave?"

"Set right down an' take it easy, Mis' Cullom," said David soothingly, putting his hands on
her shoulders and gently pushing her back into her chair. "Set right down an' take it easy.--Yes,"
to John, "I acknowledge that I signed that."

He turned to the widow, who sat wiping her eyes with John's handkerchief.

"Yes, ma'am," he said, "It's as true as anythin' kin be. I wouldn't no more fool ye, ye know
I wouldn't, don't ye? than I'd--jerk a hoss," he asseverated. "Your place is clear now, an'
by this time to-morro' the' won't be the scratch of a pen agin it. I'll send the satisfaction
over fer record fust thing in the mornin'."

"But, Dave," protested the widow, "I s'pose ye know what you're doin'--?"

"Yes," he interposed, "I cal'late I do, putty near. You ast me why I done it, an' I'll tell
ye if ye want to know. I'm payin' off an old score, an' gettin' off cheap, too. That's what
I'm doin'! I thought I'd hinted up to it putty plain, seein' 't I've talked till my jaws ache;
but I'll sum it up to ye if you like."

He stood with his feet aggressively wide apart, one hand in his trousers pocket, and holding
in the other the "morgidge," which he waved from time to time in emphasis.

"You c'n estimate, I reckon," he began, "what kind of a bringin'-up I had, an' what a poor,
mis'able, God-fersaken, scairt-to-death little forlorn critter I was; put upon, an' snubbed,
an' jawed at till I'd come to believe myself--what was rubbed into me the hull time--that I
was the most all-'round no-account animul that was ever made out o' dust, an' wa'n't ever likely
to be no diff'rent. Lookin' back, it seems to me that--exceptin' of Polly--I never had a kind
word said to me, nor a day's fun. Your husband, Billy P. Cullom, was the fust man that ever
treated me human up to that time. He give me the only enjoy'ble time 't I'd ever had, an' I
don't know 't anythin' 's ever equaled it since. He spent money on me, an' he give me money
to spend--that had never had a cent to call my own--an', Mis' Cullom, he took me by the hand,
an' he talked to me, an' he gin me the fust notion 't I'd ever had that mebbe I wa'n't only
the scum o' the earth, as I'd ben teached to believe. I told ye that that day was the turnin'
point of my life. Wa'al, it wa'n't the lickin' I got, though that had somethin' to do with
it, but I'd never have had the spunk to run away's I did if it hadn't ben for the heartenin'
Billy P. gin me, an' never knowed it, an' never knowed it," he repeated mournfully. "I alwus
allowed to pay some o' that debt back to him, but seein' 's I can't do that, Mis' Cullom, I'm
glad an' thankful to pay it to his widdo'."

"Mebbe he knows, Dave," said Mrs. Cullom softly.

"Mebbe he does," assented David in a low voice.

Neither spoke for a time, and then the widow said: "David, I can't thank ye 's I ought ter--I
don't know how--but I'll pray for ye night an' mornin' 's long 's I got breath. An', Dave,"
she added humbly, "I want to take back what I said about the Lord's providin'."

She sat a moment, lost in her thoughts, and then exclaimed, "Oh, it don't seem 's if I c'd
wait to write to Charley!"

"I've wrote to Charley," said David, "an' told him to sell out there an' come home, an' to
draw on me fer any balance he needed to move him. I've got somethin' in my eye that'll be easier
an' better payin' than fightin' grasshoppers an' drought in Kansas."

"Dave Harum!" cried the widow, rising to her feet, "you ought to 'a' ben a king!"

"Wa'al," said David with a grin, "I don't know much about the kingin' bus'nis, but I guess
a cloth cap 'n' a hoss whip 's more 'n my line than a crown an' scepter. An' now," he added,
"'s we've got through 'th our bus'nis, s'pose you step over to the house an' see Polly. She's
expectin' on ye to dinner. Oh, yes," replying to the look of deprecation in her face as she
viewed her shabby frock, "you an' Polly c'n prink up some if you want to, but we can't take
'No' fer an answer Chris'mus day, clo'es or no clo'es."

"I'd really like ter," said Mrs. Cullom.

"All right then," said David cheerfully. "The path is swep' by this time, I guess, an' I'll
see ye later. Oh, by the way," he exclaimed, "the's somethin' I fergot. I want to make you
a proposition, ruther an onusual one, but seein' ev'rythin' is as 't is, perhaps you'll consider
it."

"Dave," declared the widow, "if I could, an' you ast for it, I'd give ye anythin' on the face
o' this mortal globe!"

"Wa'al," said David, nodding and smiling, "I thought that mebbe, long 's you got the int'rist
of that investment we ben talkin' about, you'd let me keep what's left of the princ'pal. Would
ye like to see it?"

Mrs. Cullom looked at him with a puzzled expression without replying.

David took from his pocket a large wallet, secured by a strap, and, opening it, extracted something
enveloped in much faded brown paper. Unfolding this, he displayed upon his broad fat palm an
old silver dime black with age.

"There's the cap'tal," he said.

CHAPTER XXI.

John walked to the front door with Mrs. Cullom, but she declined with such evident sincerity
his offer to carry her bundle to the house that he let her out of the office and returned to
the back room. David was sitting before the fire, leaning back in his chair with his hands
thrust deep in his trousers pockets. He looked up as John entered and said, "Draw up a chair."

John brought a chair and stood by the side of it while he said, "I want to thank you for the
Christmas remembrance, which pleased and touched me very deeply; and," he added diffidently,
"I want to say how mortified I am--in fact, I want to apologize for--"

"Regrettin'?" interrupted David with a motion of his hand toward the chair and a smile of great
amusement. "Sho, sho! Se' down, se' down. I'm glad you found somethin' in your stockin' if
it pleased ye, an' as fur's that regret o' your'n was concerned--wa'al--wa'al, I liked ye all
the better for't, I did fer a fact. He, he, he! Appearances was ruther agin me, wasn't they,
the way I told it."

"Nevertheless," said John, seating himself, "I ought not to have--that is to say, I ought to
have known--"

"How could ye," David broke in, "When I as good as told ye I was cal'latin' to rob the old
lady? He, he, he, he! Scat my ----! Your face was a picture when I told ye to write that note,
though I reckon you didn't know I noticed it."

John laughed and said, "You have been very generous all through, Mr. Harum."

"Nothin' to brag on," he replied, "nothin' to brag on. Fur 's Mis' Cullom's matter was concerned,
't was as I said, jest payin' off an old score; an' as fur 's your stockin', it's really putty
much the same. I'll allow you've earned it, if it'll set any easier on your stomach."

"I can't say that I have been overworked," said John with a slight laugh.

"Mebbe not," rejoined David, "but you hain't ben overpaid neither, an' I want ye to be satisfied.
Fact is," he continued, "my gettin' you up here was putty consid'able of an experiment, but
I ben watchin' ye putty close, an' I'm more'n satisfied. Mebbe Timson c'd beat ye at figurin'
an' countin' money when you fust come, an' knowed more about the pertic'ler points of the office,
but outside of that he was the biggist dumb-head I ever see, an' you know how he left things.
He hadn't no tack, fer one thing. Outside of summin' up figures an' countin' money he had a
faculty fer gettin' things t'other-end to that beat all. I'd tell him a thing, an' explain
it to him two three times over, an' he'd say 'Yes, yes,' an', scat my ----! when it came to
carryin' on't out, he hadn't sensed it a mite--jest got it which-end-t'other. An talk! Wa'al,
I think it must 'a' ben a kind of disease with him. He really didn't mean no harm, mebbe, but
he couldn't no more help lettin' out anythin' he knowed, or thought he knowed, than a settin'
hen c'n help settin'. He kep' me on tenter-hooks the hull endurin' time."

"I should say he was honest enough, was he not?" said John.

"Oh, yes," replied David with a touch of scorn, "he was honest enough fur 's money matters
was concerned; but he hadn't no tack, nor no sense, an' many a time he done more mischief with
his gibble-gabble than if he'd took fifty dollars out an' out. Fact is," said David, "the kind
of honesty that won't actually steal 's a kind of fool honesty that's common enough; but the
kind that keeps a feller's mouth shut when he hadn't ought to talk 's about the scurcest thing
goin'. I'll jest tell ye, fer example, the last mess he made. You know Purse, that keeps the
gen'ral store? Wa'al, he come to me some months ago, on the quiet, an' said that he wanted
to borro' five hunderd. He didn't want to git no indorser, but he'd show me his books an' give
me a statement an' a chattel morgidge fer six months. He didn't want nobody to know 't he was
anyway pushed fer money because he wanted to git some extensions, an' so on. I made up my mind
it was all right, an' I done it. Wa'al, about a month or so after he come to me with tears
in his eyes, as ye might say, an' says, 'I got somethin' I want to show ye,' an' handed out
a letter from the house in New York he had some of his biggist dealin's with, tellin' him that
they regretted"--here David gave John a nudge--"that they couldn't give him the extensions
he ast for, an' that his paper must be paid as it fell due--some twelve hunderd dollars. 'Somebody
's leaked,' he says, 'an' they've heard of that morgidge, an' I'm in a putty scrape,' he says.

"'H'm'm,' I says, 'what makes ye think so?'

"'Can't be nothin' else,' he says; 'I've dealt with them people fer years an' never ast fer
nothin' but what I got it, an' now to have 'em round up on me like this, it can't be nothin'
but what they've got wind o' that chattel morgidge,' he says.

"'H'm'm,' I says. 'Any o' their people ben up here lately?' I says.

"'That's jest it,' he says. 'One o' their travellin' men was up here last week, an' he come
in in the afternoon as chipper as you please, wantin' to sell me a bill o' goods, an' I put
him off, sayin' that I had a putty big stock, an' so on, an' he said he'd see me agin in the
mornin'--you know that sort of talk,' he says.

"'Wa'al,' I says, 'did he come in?'

"'No,' says Purse, 'he didn't. I never set eyes on him agin, an' more'n that,' he says, 'he
took the first train in the mornin', an' now,' he says, 'I expect I'll have ev'ry last man
I owe anythin' to buzzin' 'round my ears.'

"'Wa'al,' I says, 'I guess I see about how the land lays, an' I reckon you ain't fur out about
the morgidge bein' at the bottom on't, an' the' ain't no way it c'd 'a' leaked out 'ceptin'
through that dum'd chuckle-head of a Timson. But this is the way it looks to me--you hain't
heard nothin' in the village, have ye?' I says.

"'No,' he says. 'Not yit,' he says.

"'Wa'al, ye won't, I don't believe,' I says, 'an' as fur as that drummer is concerned, you
c'n bet,' I says, 'that he didn't nor won't let on to nobody but his own folks--not till his
bus'nis is squared up, an' more 'n that,' I says, 'seein' that your trouble 's ben made ye
by one o' my help, I don't see but what I'll have to see ye through,' I says. 'You jest give
me the address of the New York parties, an' tell me what you want done, an' I reckon I c'n
fix the thing so 't they won't bother ye. I don't believe,' I says, 'that anybody else knows
anythin' yet, an' I'll shut up Timson's yawp so 's it'll stay shut.'"

"How did the matter come out?" asked John, "and what did Purse say?"

"Oh," replied David, "Purse went off head up an' tail up. He said he was everlastin'ly obliged
to me, an'--he, he, he!--he said 't was more 'n he expected. You see I charged him what I thought
was right on the 'rig'nal deal, an' he squimmidged some, an' I reckon he allowed to be putty
well bled if I took holt agin; but I done as I agreed on the extension bus'nis, an' I'm on
his paper for twelve hunderd fer nothin', jest because that nikum-noddy of a Timson let that
drummer bamboozle him into talkin'. I found out the hull thing, an' the very day I wrote to
the New York fellers fer Purse, I wrote to Gen'ral Wolsey to find me somebody to take Timson's
place. I allowed I'd ruther have somebody that didn't know nobody, than such a clackin' ole
he-hen as Chet."

"I should have said that it was rather a hazardous thing to do," said John, "to put a total
stranger like me into what is rather a confidential position, as well as a responsible one."

"Wa'al," said David, "in the fust place I knew that the Gen'ral wouldn't recommend no dead-beat
nor no skin, an' I allowed that if the raw material was O.K., I could break it in; an' if it
wa'n't I should find it out putty quick. Like a young hoss," he remarked, "if he's sound an'
kind, an' got gumption, I'd sooner break him in myself 'n not--fur's my use goes--an' if I
can't, nobody can, an' I get rid on him. You understand?"

"Yes," said John with a smile.

"Wa'al," continued David, "I liked your letter, an' when you come I liked your looks. Of course
I couldn't tell jest how you'd take holt, nor if you an' me 'd hitch. An' then agin, I didn't
know whether you could stan' it here after livin' in a city all your life. I watched ye putty
close--closter 'n you knowed of, I guess. I seen right off that you was goin' to fill your
collar, fur's the work was concerned, an' though you didn't know nobody much, an' couldn't
have no amusement to speak on, you didn't mope nor sulk, an' what's more--though I know I advised
ye to stay there fer a spell longer when you spoke about boardin' somewhere else--I know what
the Eagle tavern is in winter; summer, too, fer that matter, though it's a little better then,
an' I allowed that air test 'd be final. He, he, he! Putty rough, ain't it?"

"It is, rather," said John, laughing. "I'm afraid my endurance is pretty well at an end. Elright's
wife is ill, and the fact is, that since day before yesterday I have been living on what I
could buy at the grocery--crackers, cheese, salt fish, canned goods, et cetera."

"Scat my ----!" cried David. "Wa'al! Wa'al! That's too dum'd bad! Why on earth--why, you must
be hungry! Wa'al, you won't have to eat no salt herrin' to-day, because Polly 'n I are expectin'
ye to dinner."

Two or three times during the conversation David had gone to the window overlooking his lawn
and looked out with a general air of observing the weather, and at this point he did so again,
coming back to his seat with a look of satisfaction, for which there was, to John, no obvious
reason. He sat for a moment without speaking, and then, looking at his watch, said: "Wa'al,
dinner 's at one o'clock, an' Polly's a great one fer bein' on time. Guess I'll go out an'
have another look at that pesky colt. You better go over to the house 'bout quarter to one,
an' you c'n make your t'ilet over there. I'm 'fraid if you go over to the Eagle it'll spoil
your appetite. She'd think it might, anyway."

So David departed to see the colt, and John got out some of the books and busied himself with
them until the time to present himself at David's house.

CHAPTER XXII.

"Why, Mis' Cullom, I'm real glad to see ye. Come right in," said Mrs. Bixbee as she drew the
widow into the "wing settin' room," and proceeded to relieve her of her wraps and her bundle.
"Set right here by the fire while I take these things of your'n into the kitchen to dry 'em
out. I'll be right back"; and she bustled out of the room. When she came back Mrs. Cullom was
sitting with her hands in her lap, and there was in her eyes an expression of smiling peace
that was good to see.

Mrs. Bixbee drew up a chair, and seating herself, said: "Wa'al, I don't know when I've seen
ye to git a chance to speak to ye, an' I was real pleased when David said you was goin' to
be here to dinner. An' my! how well, you're lookin'--more like Cynthy Sweetland than I've seen
ye fer I don't know when; an' yet," she added, looking curiously at her guest, "you 'pear somehow
as if you'd ben cryin'."

"You're real kind, I'm sure," responded Mrs. Cullom, replying to the other's welcome and remarks
seriatim; "I guess, though, I don't look much like Cynthy Sweetland, if I do feel twenty years
younger 'n I did a while ago; an' I have ben cryin', I allow, but not fer sorro', Polly Harum,"
she exclaimed, giving the other her maiden name. "Your brother Dave comes putty nigh to bein'
an angel!"

"Wa'al," replied Mrs. Bixbee with a twinkle, "I reckon Dave might hev to be fixed up some afore
he come out in that pertic'ler shape, but," she added impressively, "es fur as bein' a man
goes, he's 'bout 's good 's they make 'em. I know folks thinks he's a hard bargainer, an' close-fisted,
an' some on 'em that ain't fit to lick up his tracks says more'n that. He's got his own ways,
I'll allow, but down at bottom, an' all through, I know the' ain't no better man livin'. No,
ma'am, the' ain't, an' what he's ben to me, Cynthy Cullom, nobody knows but me--an'--an'--mebbe
the Lord--though I hev seen the time," she said tentatively, "when it seemed to me 't I knowed
more about my affairs 'n He did," and she looked doubtfully at her companion, who had been
following her with affirmative and sympathetic nods, and now drew her chair a little closer,
and said softly: "Yes, yes, I know. I ben putty doubtful an' rebellious myself a good many
times, but seems now as if He had had me in His mercy all the time." Here Aunt Polly's sense
of humor asserted itself. "What's Dave ben up to now?" she asked.

And then the widow told her story, with tears and smiles, and the keen enjoyment which we all
have in talking about ourselves to a sympathetic listener like Aunt Polly, whose interjections
pointed and illuminated the narrative. When it was finished she leaned forward and kissed Mrs.
Cullom on the cheek.

"I can't tell ye how glad I be for ye," she said; "but if I'd known that David held that morgidge,
I could hev told ye ye needn't hev worried yourself a mite. He wouldn't never have taken your
prop'ty, more'n he'd rob a hen-roost. But he done the thing his own way--kind o' fetched it
round fer a Merry Chris'mus, didn't he? Curious," she said reflectively, after a momentary
pause, "how he lays up things about his childhood," and then, with a searching look at the
Widow Cullom, "you didn't let on, an' I didn't ask ye, but of course you've heard the things
that some folks says of him, an' natchally they got some holt on your mind. There's that story
about 'Lish, over to Whitcom--you heard somethin' about that, didn't ye?"

"Yes," admitted the widow, "I heard somethin' of it, I s'pose."

"Wa'al," said Mrs. Bixbee, "you never heard the hull story, ner anybody else really, but I'm
goin' to tell it to ye--"

"Yes," said Mrs. Cullom assentingly.

Mrs. Bixbee sat up straight in her chair with her hands on her knees and an air of one who
would see justice done.

"'Lish Harum," she began, "wa'n't only half-brother to Dave. He was hull-brother to me, though,
but notwithstandin' that, I will say that a meaner boy, a meaner growin' man, an' a meaner
man never walked the earth. He wa'n't satisfied to git the best piece an' the biggist piece--he
hated to hev any one else git anythin' at all. I don't believe he ever laughed in his life,
except over some kind o' suff'rin'--man or beast--an' what'd tickle him the most was to be
the means on't. He took pertic'ler delight in abusin' an' tormentin' Dave, an' the poor little
critter was jest as 'fraid as death of him, an' good reason. Father was awful hard, but he
didn't go out of his way; but 'Lish never let no chance slip. Wa'al, I ain't goin' to give
you the hull fam'ly hist'ry, an' I've got to go into the kitchen fer a while 'fore dinner,
but what I started out fer 's this: 'Lish fin'ly settled over to Whitcom."

"Did he ever git married?" interrupted Mrs. Cullom.

"Oh, yes," replied Mrs. Bixbee, "he got married when he was past forty. It's curious," she
remarked, in passing, "but it don't seem as if the' was ever yit a man so mean but he c'd find
some woman was fool enough to marry him, an' she was a putty decent sort of a woman too, f'm
all accounts, an' good lookin'. Wa'al, she stood him six or seven year, an' then she run off."

"With another man?" queried the widow in an awed voice. Aunt Polly nodded assent with compressed
lips.

"Yes'm," she went on, "she left him an' went out West somewhere, an' that was the last of her;
an' when her two boys got old enough to look after themselves a little, they quit him too,
an' they wa'n't no way growed up neither. Wa'al, the long an' the short on't was that 'Lish
got goin' down hill ev'ry way, health an' all, till he hadn't nothin' left but his disposition,
an' fairly got onter the town. The' wa'n't nothin' for it but to send him to the county house,
onless somebody 'd s'port him. Wa'al, the committee knew Dave was his brother, an' one on 'em
come to see him to see if he'd come forwud an' help out, an' he seen Dave right here in this
room, an' Dave made me stay an' hear the hull thing. Man's name was Smith, I remember, a peaked
little man with long chin whiskers that he kep' clawin' at with his fingers. Dave let him tell
his story, an' he didn't say nothin' fer a minute or two, an' then he says, 'What made ye come
to me?' he says. 'Did he send ye?'

"'Wa'al,' says Smith, 'when it was clear that he couldn't do nuthin', we ast him if the' wa'n't
nobody could put up fer him, an' he said you was his brother, an' well off, an' hadn't ought
to let him go t' the poorhouse.'

"'He said that, did he?' says Dave.

"'Amountin' to that,' says Smith.

"'Wa'al,' says Dave, 'it's a good many years sence I see 'Lish, an' mebbe you know him better
'n I do. You known him some time, eh?'

"'Quite a number o' years,' says Smith.

"'What sort of a feller was he,' says Dave, 'when he was somebody? Putty good feller? good
citizen? good neighber? lib'ral? kind to his fam'ly? ev'rybody like him? gen'ally pop'lar,
an' all that?'

"'Wa'al,' says Smith, wigglin' in his chair an' pullin' out his whiskers three four hairs to
a time, 'I guess he come some short of all that.'

"'E'umph!' says Dave, 'I guess he did! Now, honest,' he says, 'is the' man, woman, or child
in Whitcom that knows 'Lish Harum that's got a good word fer him? or ever knowed of his doin'
or sayin' anythin' that hadn't got a mean side to it some way? Didn't he drive his wife off,
out an' out? an' didn't his two boys hev to quit him soon 's they could travel? An',' says
Dave, 'if any one was to ask you to figure out a pattern of the meanist human skunk you was
capable of thinkin' of, wouldn't it--honest, now!' Dave says, 'honest, now--wouldn't it be
's near like 'Lish Harum as one buckshot 's like another?'"

"My!" exclaimed Mrs. Cullom. "What did Mr. Smith say to that?"

"Wa'al," replied Mrs. Bixbee, "he didn't say nuthin' at fust, not in so many words. He sot
fer a minute clawin' away at his whiskers--an' he'd got both hands into 'em by that time--an'
then he made a move as if he gin the hull thing up an' was goin'. Dave set lookin' at him,
an' then he says, 'You ain't goin', air ye?'

"'Wa'al,' says Smith, 'feelin' 's you do, I guess my arrant here ain't goin' t' amount to nothin',
an' I may 's well.'

"'No, you set still a minute,' says Dave. 'If you'll answer my question honest an' square,
I've got sunthin' more to say to ye. Come, now,' he says.

"'Wa'al,' says Smith, with a kind of give-it-up sort of a grin, 'I guess you sized him up about
right. I didn't come to see you on 'Lish Harum's account. I come fer the town of Whitcom.'
An' then he spunked up some an' says, 'I don't give a darn,' he says, 'what comes of 'Lish,
an' I don't know nobody as does, fur's he's person'ly concerned; but he's got to be a town
charge less 'n you take 'm off our hands.'

"Dave turned to me an' says, jest as if he meant it, 'How 'd you like to have him here, Polly?'

"'Dave Harum!' I says, 'what be you thinkin' of, seein' what he is, an' alwus was, an' how
he alwus treated you? Lord sakes!' I says, 'you ain't thinkin' of it!'

"'Not much,' he says, with an ugly kind of a smile, such as I never see in his face before,
'not much! Not under this roof, or any roof of mine, if it wa'n't more'n my cow stable--an','
he says, turnin' to Smith, 'this is what I want to say to you: You've done all right. I hain't
no fault to find with you. But I want you to go back an' say to 'Lish Harum that you've seen
me, an' that I told you that not one cent of my money nor one mossel o' my food would ever
go to keep him alive one minute of time; that if I had an empty hogpen I wouldn't let him sleep
in't overnight, much less to bunk in with a decent hog. You tell him that I said the poorhouse
was his proper dwellin', barrin' the jail, an' that it 'd have to be a dum'd sight poorer house
'n I ever heard of not to be a thousan' times too good fer him.'"

"My!" exclaimed Mrs. Cullom again. "I can't really 'magine it of Dave."

"Wa'al," replied Mrs. Bixbee, "I told ye how set he is on his young days, an' nobody knows
how cruel mean 'Lish used to be to him; but I never see it come out of him so ugly before,
though I didn't blame him a mite. But I hain't told ye the upshot: 'Now,' he says to Smith,
who set with his mouth gappin' open, 'you understand how I feel about the feller, an' I've
got good reason for it. I want you to promise me that you'll say to him, word fer word, jest
what I've said to you about him, an' I'll do this: You folks send him to the poorhouse, an'
let him git jest what the rest on 'em gits--no more an' no less--as long 's he lives. When
he dies you git him the tightest coffin you kin buy, to keep him f'm spilin' the earth as long
as may be, an' then you send me the hull bill. But this has got to be between you an' me only.
You c'n tell the rest of the committee what you like, but if you ever tell a livin' soul about
this here understandin', an' I find it out, I'll never pay one cent, an' you'll be to blame.
I'm willin', on them terms, to stan' between the town of Whitcom an' harm; but fer 'Lish Harum,
not one sumarkee! Is it a barg'in?' Dave says.

"'Yes, sir,' says Smith, puttin' out his hand. 'An' I guess,' he says, 'f'm all 't I c'n gather,
thet you're doin' all 't we could expect, an' more too,' an' off he put."

"How 'd it come out?" asked Mrs. Cullom.

"'Lish lived about two year," replied Aunt Polly, "an' Dave done as he agreed, but even then
when he come to settle up, he told Smith he didn't want no more said about it 'n could be helped."

"Wa'al," said Mrs. Cullom, "it seems to me as if David did take care on him after all, fur
's spendin' money was concerned."

"That's the way it looks to me," said Mrs. Bixbee, "but David likes to think t'other. He meant
to be awful mean, an' he was--as mean as he could--but the fact is, he didn't reelly know how.
My sakes! Cynthy (looking at the clock), I'll hev to excuse myself fer a spell. Ef you want
to do any fixin' up 'fore dinner, jest step into my bedroom. I've laid some things out on the
bed, if you should happen to want any of 'em," and she hurried out of the room.

CHAPTER XXIII.

David's house stood about a hundred feet back from the street, facing the east. The main body
of the house was of two stories (through which ran a deep bay in front), with mansard roof.
On the south of the main body of the house were two stories of the "wing," in which were the
"settin' room," Aunt Polly's room, and, above, David's quarters. Ten minutes or so before one
o'clock John rang the bell at the front door.

"Sairy's busy," said Mrs. Bixbee apologetically as she let him in, "an' so I come to the door
myself."

"Thank you very much," said John. "Mr. Harum told me to come over a little before one, but
perhaps I ought to have waited a few minutes longer."

"No, it's all right," she replied, "for mebbe you'd like to wash an' fix up 'fore dinner, so
I'll jest show ye where to," and she led the way upstairs and into the "front parlor bedroom."

"There," she said, "make yourself comf'table, an' dinner 'll be ready in about ten minutes."

For a moment John mentally rubbed his eyes. Then he turned and caught both of Mrs. Bixbee's
hands and looked at her, speechless. When he found words he said: "I don't know what to say,
nor how to thank you properly. I don't believe you know how kind this is."

"Don't say nothin' about it," she protested, but with a look of great satisfaction. "I done
it jest t' relieve my mind, because ever sence you fust come, I ben worryin' over your bein'
at that nasty tavern," and she made a motion to go.

"You and your brother," said John earnestly, still holding her hands, "have made me a gladder
and happier man this Christmas day than I have been for a very long time."

"I'm glad on't," she said heartily, "an' I hope you'll be comf'table an' contented here. I
must go now an' help Sairy dish up. Come down to the settin' room when you're ready," and she
gave his hands a little squeeze.

"Aunt Po----, I beg pardon, Mrs. Bixbee," said John, moved by a sudden impulse, "do you think
you could find it in your heart to complete my happiness by giving me a kiss? It's Christmas,
you know," he added smilingly.

Aunt Polly colored to the roots of her hair. "Wa'al," she said, with a little laugh, "seein'
't I'm old enough to be your mother, I guess 't won't hurt me none," and as she went down the
stairs she softly rubbed her lips with the side of her forefinger.

John understood now why David had looked out of the bank window so often that morning. All
his belongings were in Aunt Polly's best bedroom, having been moved over from the Eagle while
he and David had been in the office. A delightful room it was, in immeasurable contrast to
his squalid surroundings at that hostelry. The spacious bed, with its snowy counterpane and
silk patchwork "comf'table" folded on the foot, the bright fire in the open stove, the big
bureau and glass, the soft carpet, the table for writing and reading standing in the bay, his
books on the broad mantel, and his dressing things laid out ready to his hand, not to mention
an ample supply of dry towels on the rack.

The poor fellow's life during the weeks which he had lived in Homeville had been utterly in
contrast with any previous experience. Nevertheless he had tried to make the best of it, and
to endure the monotony, the dullness, the entire lack of companionship and entertainment with
what philosophy he could muster. The hours spent in the office were the best part of the day.
He could manage to find occupation for all of them, though a village bank is not usually a
scene of active bustle. Many of the people who did business there diverted him somewhat, and
most of them seemed never too much in a hurry to stand around and talk the sort of thing that
interested them. After John had got acquainted with his duties and the people he came in contact
with, David gave less personal attention to the affairs of the bank; but he was in and out
frequently during the day, and rarely failed to interest his cashier with his observations
and remarks.

But the long winter evenings had been very bad. After supper, a meal which revolted every sense,
there had been as many hours to be got through with as he found wakeful, an empty stomach often
adding to the number of them, and the only resource for passing the time had been reading,
which had often been well-nigh impossible for sheer physical discomfort. As has been remarked,
the winter climate of the middle portion of New York State is as bad as can be imagined. His
light was a kerosene lamp of half-candle power, and his appliance for warmth consisted of a
small wood stove, which (as David would have expressed it) "took two men an' a boy" to keep
in action, and was either red hot or exhausted.

As from the depths of a spacious lounging chair he surveyed his new surroundings, and contrasted
them with those from which he had been rescued out of pure kindness, his heart was full, and
it can hardly be imputed to him as a weakness that for a moment his eyes filled with tears
of gratitude and happiness--no less.

Indeed, there were four happy people at David's table that Christmas day. Aunt Polly had "smartened
up" Mrs. Cullom with collar and cuffs, and in various ways which the mind of man comprehendeth
not in detail; and there had been some arranging of her hair as well, which altogether had
so transformed and transfigured her that John thought that he should hardly have known her
for the forlorn creature whom he had encountered in the morning. And as he looked at the still
fine eyes, large and brown, and shining for the first time in many a year with a soft light
of happiness, he felt that he could understand how it was that Billy P. had married the village
girl.

Mrs. Bixbee was grand in black silk and lace collar fastened with a shell-cameo pin not quite
as large as a saucer, and John caught the sparkle of a diamond on her plump left hand--David's
Christmas gift--with regard to which she had spoken apologetically to Mrs. Cullom:

"I told David that I was ever so much obliged to him, but I didn't want a dimun' more'n a cat
wanted a flag, an' I thought it was jest throwin' away money. But he would have it--said I
c'd sell it an' keep out the poorhouse some day, mebbe."

David had not made much change in his usual raiment, but he was shaved to the blood, and his
round red face shone with soap and satisfaction. As he tucked his napkin into his shirt collar,
Sairy brought in the tureen of oyster soup, and he remarked, as he took his first spoonful
of the stew, that he was "hungry 'nough t' eat a graven imidge," a condition that John was
able to sympathize with after his two days of fasting on crackers and such provisions as he
could buy at Purse's. It was, on the whole, he reflected, the most enjoyable dinner that he
ever ate. Never was such a turkey; and to see it give way under David's skillful knife--wings,
drumsticks, second joints, side bones, breast--was an elevating and memorable experience. And
such potatoes, mashed in cream; such boiled onions, turnips, Hubbard squash, succotash, stewed
tomatoes, celery, cranberries, "currant jell!" Oh! and to "top off" with, a mince pie to die
for and a pudding (new to John, but just you try it some time) of steamed Indian meal and fruit,
with a sauce of cream sweetened with shaved maple sugar.

"What'll you have?" said David to Mrs. Cullom, "dark meat? white meat?"

"Anything," she replied meekly, "I'm not partic'ler. Most any part of a turkey 'll taste good,
I guess."

"All right," said David. "Don't care means a little o' both. I alwus know what to give Polly--piece
o' the second jint an' the last-thing-over-the-fence. Nice 'n rich fer scraggly folks," he
remarked. "How fer you, John?--little o' both, eh?" and he heaped the plate till our friend
begged him to keep something for himself.

"Little too much is jest right," he asserted.

When David had filled the plates and handed them along--Sairy was for bringing in and taking
out; they did their own helping to vegetables and "passin'"--he hesitated a moment, and then
got out of his chair and started in the direction of the kitchen door.

"What's the matter?" asked Mrs. Bixbee in surprise. "Where you goin'?"

"Woodshed," said David.

"Woodshed!" she exclaimed, making as if to rise and follow.

"You set still," said David. "Somethin' I fergot."

"What on earth!" she exclaimed, with an air of annoyance and bewilderment. "What do you want
in the woodshed? Can't you set down an' let Sairy git it for ye?"

"No," he asserted with a grin. "Sairy might sqush it. It must be putty meller by this time,"
And out he went.

"Manners!" ejaculated Mrs. Bixbee. "You'll think (to John) we're reg'ler heathin."

"I guess not," said John, smiling and much amused.

Presently Sairy appeared with four tumblers which she distributed, and was followed by David
bearing a bottle. He seated himself and began a struggle to unwire the same with an ice-pick.
Aunt Polly leaned forward with a look of perplexed curiosity.

"What you got there?" she asked.

"Vewve Clikot's universal an' suv'rin remedy," said David, reading the label and bringing the
corners of his eye and mouth almost together in a wink to John, "fer toothache, earache, burns,
scalds, warts, dispepsy, fallin' o' the hair, windgall, ringbone, spavin, disapp'inted affections,
an' pips in hens," and out came the cork with a "wop," at which both the ladies, even Mrs.
Cullom, jumped and cried out.

"David Harum," declared his sister with conviction, "I believe thet that's a bottle of champagne."

"If it ain't," said David, pouring into his tumbler, "I ben swindled out o' four shillin',"
and he passed the bottle to John, who held it up tentatively, looking at Mrs. Bixbee.

"No, thank ye," she said with a little toss of the head, "I'm a son o' temp'rence. I don't
believe," she remarked to Mrs. Cullom, "thet that bottle ever cost less 'n a dollar." At which
remarks David apparently "swallered somethin' the wrong way," and for a moment or two was unable
to proceed with his dinner. Aunt Polly looked at him suspiciously. It was her experience that,
in her intercourse with her brother, he often laughed utterly without reason--so far as she
could see.

"I've always heard it was dreadful expensive," remarked Mrs. Cullom.

"Let me give you some," said John, reaching toward her with the bottle. Mrs. Cullom looked
first at Mrs. Bixbee and then at David.

"I don't know," she said. "I never tasted any."

"Take a little," said David, nodding approvingly.

"Just a swallow," said the widow, whose curiosity had got the better of scruples. She took
a swallow of the wine.

"How do ye like it?" asked David.

"Well," she said as she wiped her eyes, into which the gas had driven the tears, "I guess I
could get along if I couldn't have it regular."

"Don't taste good?" suggested David with a grin.

"Well," she replied, "I never did care any great for cider, and this tastes to me about as
if I was drinkin' cider an' snuffin' horseradish at one and the same time."

"How's that, John?" said David, laughing.

"I suppose it's an acquired taste," said John, returning the laugh and taking a mouthful of
the wine with infinite relish. "I don't think I ever enjoyed a glass of wine so much, or,"
turning to Aunt Polly, "ever enjoyed a dinner so much," which statement completely mollified
her feelings, which had been the least bit in the world "set edgeways."

"Mebbe your app'tite's got somethin' to do with it," said David, shoveling a knife-load of
good things into his mouth. "Polly, this young man's ben livin' on crackers an' salt herrin'
fer a week."

"My land!" cried Mrs. Bixbee with an expression of horror. "Is that reelly so? 'T ain't now,
reelly?"

"Not quite so bad as that," John answered, smiling; "but Mrs. Elright has been ill for a couple
of days and--well, I have been foraging around Purse's store a little."

"Wa'al, of all the mean shames!" exclaimed Aunt Polly indignantly. "David Harum, you'd ought
to be ridic'lous t' allow such a thing."

"Wa'al, I never!" said David, holding his knife and fork straight up in either fist as they
rested on the table, and staring at his sister. "I believe if the meetin'-house roof was to
blow off you'd lay it onto me somehow. I hain't ben runnin' the Eagle tavern fer quite a consid'able
while. You got the wrong pig by the ear as usual. Jest you pitch into him," pointing with his
fork to John. "It's his funeral, if anybody's."

"Wa'al," said Aunt Polly, addressing John in a tone of injury, "I do think you might have let
somebody know; I think you'd ortter 've known--"

"Yes, Mrs. Bixbee," he interrupted, "I did know how kind you are and would have been, and if
matters had gone on so much longer I should have appealed to you, I should have indeed; but
really," he added, smiling at her, "a dinner like this is worth fasting a week for."

"Wa'al," she said, mollified again, "you won't git no more herrin' 'nless you ask fer 'em."

"That is just what your brother said this morning," replied John, looking at David with a laugh.

CHAPTER XXIV.

The meal proceeded in silence for a few minutes. Mrs. Cullom had said but little, but John
noticed that her diction was more conventional than in her talk with David and himself in the
morning, and that her manner at the table was distinctly refined, although she ate with apparent
appetite, not to say hunger. Presently she said, with an air of making conversation, "I suppose
you've always lived in the city, Mr. Lenox?"

"It has always been my home," he replied, "but I have been away a good deal."

"I suppose folks in the city go to theaters a good deal," she remarked.

"They have a great many opportunities," said John, wondering what she was leading up to. But
he was not to discover, for David broke in with a chuckle.

"Ask Polly, Mis' Cullom," he said. "She c'n tell ye all about the theater, Polly kin." Mrs.
Cullom looked from David to Mrs. Bixbee, whose face was suffused.

"Tell her," said David, with a grin.

"I wish you'd shet up," she exclaimed. "I sha'n't do nothin' of the sort."

"Ne' mind," said David cheerfully, "I'll tell ye, Mis' Cullom."

"Dave Harum!" expostulated Mrs. Bixbee, but he proceeded without heed of her protest.

"Polly an' I," he said, "went down to New York one spring some years ago. Her nerves was some
wore out 'long of diff'rences with Sairy about clearin' up the woodshed, an' bread risin's,
an' not bein' able to suit herself up to Purse's in the qual'ty of silk velvit she wanted fer
a Sunday-go-to-meetin' gown, an' I thought a spell off 'd do her good. Wa'al, the day after
we got there I says to her while we was havin' breakfust--it was picked-up el'phant on toast,
near 's I c'n remember, wa'n't it, Polly?"

"That's as near the truth as most o' the rest on't so fur," said Polly with a sniff.

"Wa'al, I says to her," he proceeded, untouched by her scorn, "'How'd you like to go t' the
theater? You hain't never ben,' I says, 'an' now you're down here you may jest as well see
somethin' while you got a chanst,' I says. Up to that time" he remarked, as it were in passing,
"she'd ben somewhat prejuced 'ginst theaters, an'----"

"Wa'al," Mrs. Bixbee broke in, "I guess what we see that night was cal'lated----"

"You hold on," he interposed. "I'm tellin' this story. You had a chanst to an' wouldn't. Anyway,"
he resumed, "she allowed she'd try it once, an' we agreed we'd go somewheres that night. But
somethin' happened to put it out o' my mind, an' I didn't think on't agin till I got back to
the hotel fer supper. So I went to the feller at the news-stand an' says, 'Got any show-tickits
fer to-night?'

"'Theater?' he says.

"'I reckon so,' I says.

"'Wa'al,' he says, 'I hain't got nothin' now but two seats fer 'Clyanthy.'

"'Is it a good show?' I says--'moral, an' so on? I'm goin' to take my sister, an' she's a little
pertic'ler about some things,' I says. He kind o' grinned, the feller did. 'I've took my wife
twice, an' she's putty pertic'ler herself,' he says, laughin.'"

"She must 'a' ben," remarked Mrs. Bixbee with a sniff that spoke volumes of her opinion of
"the feller's wife." David emitted a chuckle.

"Wa'al," he continued, "I took the tickits on the feller's recommend, an' the fact of his wife's
bein' so pertic'ler, an' after supper we went. It was a mighty handsome place inside, gilded
an' carved all over like the outside of a cirkis wagin, an' when we went in the orchestry was
playin' an' the people was comin' in, an' after we'd set a few minutes I says to Polly, 'What
do you think on't?' I says.

"'I don't see anythin' very unbecomin' so fur, an' the people looks respectable enough,' she says.

"'No jail birds in sight fur 's ye c'n see so fur, be they?' I says. He, he, he, he!"

"You needn't make me out more of a gump 'n I was," protested Mrs. Bixbee. "An' you was jest
as----" David held up his finger at her.

"Don't you sp'ile the story by discountin' the sequil. Wa'al, putty soon the band struck up
some kind of a dancin' tune, an' the curt'in went up, an' a girl come prancin' down to the
footlights an' begun singin' an' dancin', an', scat my ----! to all human appearances you c'd
'a' covered ev'ry dum thing she had on with a postage stamp." John stole a glance at Mrs. Cullom.
She was staring at the speaker with wide-open eyes of horror and amazement.

"I guess I wouldn't go very fur into pertic'lers," said Mrs. Bixbee in a warning tone.

David bent his head down over his plate and shook from head to foot, and it was nearly a minute
before he was able to go on. "Wa'al," he said, "I heard Polly give a kind of a gasp an' a snort,
's if some one 'd throwed water 'n her face. But she didn't say nothin', an', I swan! I didn't
dast to look at her fer a spell; an' putty soon in come a hull crowd more girls that had left
their clo'es in their trunks or somewhere, singin', an' dancin', an' weavin' 'round on the
stage, an' after a few minutes I turned an' looked at Polly. He, he, he, he!"

"David Harum!" cried Mrs. Bixbee, "ef you're goin' to discribe any more o' them scand'lous
goin's on I sh'll take my victuals into the kitchin. I didn't see no more of 'em," she added
to Mrs. Cullom and John, "after that fust trollop appeared."

"I don't believe she did," said David, "fer when I turned she set there with her eys shut tighter
'n a drum, an' her mouth shut too so's her nose an' chin most come together, an' her face was
red enough so 't a streak o' red paint 'd 'a' made a white mark on it. 'Polly,' I says, 'I'm
afraid you ain't gettin' the wuth o' your money.'

"'David Harum,' she says, with her mouth shut all but a little place in the corner toward me,
'if you don't take me out o' this place, I'll go without ye,' she says.

"'Don't you think you c'd stan' it a little longer?' I says. 'Mebbe they've sent home fer their
clo'es,' I says. He, he, he, he! But with that she jest give a hump to start, an' I see she
meant bus'nis. When Polly Bixbee," said David impressively, "puts that foot o' her'n down somethin's
got to sqush, an' don't you fergit it." Mrs. Bixbee made no acknowledgment of this tribute
to her strength of character. John looked at David.

"Yes," he said, with a solemn bend of the head, as if in answer to a question, "I squshed.
I says to her, 'All right. Don't make no disturbance more'n you c'n help, an' jest put your
hank'chif up to your nose 's if you had the nosebleed,' an' we squeezed out of the seats, an'
sneaked up the aisle, an' by the time we got out into the entry I guess my face was as red
as Polly's. It couldn't 'a' ben no redder," he added.

"You got a putty fair color as a gen'ral thing," remarked Mrs. Bixbee dryly.

"Yes, ma'am; yes, ma'am, I expect that's so," he assented, "but I got an extry coat o' tan
follerin' you out o' that theater. When we got out into the entry one o' them fellers that
stands 'round steps up to me an' says, 'Ain't your ma feelin' well?' he says. 'Her feelin's
has ben a trifle rumpled up,' I says, 'an' that gen'ally brings on the nosebleed,' an' then,"
said David, looking over Mrs. Bixbee's head, "the feller went an' leaned up agin the wall."

"David Harum!" exclaimed Mrs. Bixbee, "that's a downright lie. You never spoke to a soul, an'--an'--ev'rybody
knows 't I ain't more 'n four years older 'n you be."

"Wa'al, you see, Polly," her brother replied in a smooth tone of measureless aggravation, "the
feller wa'n't acquainted with us, an' he only went by appearances."

Aunt Polly appealed to John: "Ain't he enough to--to--I d' know what?"

"I really don't see how you live with him," said John, laughing.

Mrs. Cullom's face wore a faint smile, as if she were conscious that something amusing was
going on, but was not quite sure what. The widow took things seriously for the most part, poor
soul.

"I reckon you haven't followed theater-goin' much after that," she said to her hostess.

"No, ma'am," Mrs. Bixbee replied with emphasis, "you better believe I hain't. I hain't never
thought of it sence without tinglin' all over. I believe," she asserted, "that David 'd 'a'
stayed the thing out if it hadn't ben fer me; but as true 's you live, Cynthy Cullom, I was
so 'shamed at the little 't I did see that when I come to go to bed I took my clo'es off in
the dark."

David threw back his head and roared with laughter. Mrs. Bixbee looked at him with unmixed
scorn. "If I couldn't help makin' a----" she began, "I'd----"

"Oh, Lord! Polly," David broke in, "be sure 'n wrap up when you go out. If you sh'd ketch cold
an' your sense o' the ridic'lous sh'd strike in you'd be a dead-'n'-goner sure." This was treated
with the silent contempt which it deserved, and David fell upon his dinner with the remark
that "he guessed he'd better make up fer lost time," though as a matter of fact while he had
done most of the talking he had by no means suspended another function of his mouth while so
engaged.

For a time nothing more was said which did not relate to the replenishment of plates, glasses,
and cups. Finally David cleaned up his plate with his knife blade and a piece of bread, and
pushed it away with a sigh of fullness, mentally echoed by John.

"I feel 's if a child could play with me," he remarked. "What's comin' now, Polly?"

"The's a mince pie, an' Injun puddin' with maple sugar an' cream, an' ice cream," she replied.

"Mercy on us!" he exclaimed. "I guess I'll have to go an' jump up an' down on the verandy.
How do you feel, John? I s'pose you got so used to them things at the Eagle 't you won't have
no stomach fer 'em, eh? Wa'al, fetch 'em along. May 's well die fer the ole sheep 's the lamb,
but, Polly Bixbee, if you've got designs on my life, I may 's well tell ye right now 't I've
left all my prop'ty to the Institution fer Disappinted Hoss Swappers."

"That's putty near next o' kin, ain't it?" was the unexpected rejoinder of the injured Polly.

"Wa'al, scat my ----!" exclaimed David, hugely amused, "if Polly Bixbee hain't made a joke!
You'll git yourself into the almanic, Polly, fust thing you know." Sairy brought in the pie
and then the pudding.

"John," said David, "if you've got a pencil an' a piece o' paper handy I'd like to have ye
take down a few of my last words 'fore we proceed to the pie an' puddin' bus'nis. Any more
'hoss-redish' in that bottle?" holding out his glass. "Hi! hi! that's enough. You take the
rest on't," which John did, nothing loath.

David ate his pie in silence, but before he made up his mind to attack the pudding, which was
his favorite confection, he gave an audible chuckle, which elicited Mrs. Bixbee's notice.

"What you gigglin' 'bout now?" she asked.

David laughed. "I was thinkin' of somethin' I heard up to Purse's last night," he said as he
covered his pudding with the thick cream sauce. "Amri Shapless has ben gittin' married."

"Wa'al, I declare!" she exclaimed. "That ole shack! Who in creation could he git to take him?"

"Lize Annis is the lucky woman," replied David with a grin.

"Wa'al, if that don't beat all!" said Mrs. Bixbee, throwing up her hands, and even from Mrs.
Cullom was drawn a "Well, I never!"

"Fact," said David, "they was married yestidy forenoon. Squire Parker done the job. Dominie
White wouldn't have nothin' to do with it!"

"Squire Parker 'd ortter be 'shamed of himself," said Mrs. Bixbee indignantly.

"Don't you think that trew love had ought to be allowed to take its course?" asked David with
an air of sentiment.

"I think the squire'd ortter be 'shamed of himself," she reiterated. "S'pose them two old skinamulinks
was to go an' have children?"

"Polly, you make me blush," protested her brother. "Hain't you got no respect fer the holy
institution of matrimuny?--and--at cet'ry?" he added, wiping his whole face with his napkin.

"Much as you hev, I reckon," she retorted. "Of all the amazin' things in this world, the amazinist
to me is the kind of people that gits married to each other in gen'ral; but this here performence
beats ev'rything holler."

"Amri give a very good reason for't," said David with an air of conviction, and then he broke
into a laugh.

"Ef you got anythin' to tell, tell it," said Mrs. Bixbee impatiently.

"Wa'al," said David, taking the last of his pudding into his mouth, "if you insist on't, painful
as 't is. I heard Dick Larrabee tellin' 'bout it. Amri told Dick day before yestiday that he
was thinkin' of gettin' married, an' ast him to go along with him to Parson White's an' be
a witniss, an' I reckon a kind of moral support. When it comes to moral supportin'," remarked
David in passing, "Dick's as good 's a professional, an' he'd go an' see his gran'mother hung
sooner 'n miss anythin', an' never let his cigar go out durin' the performence. Dick said he
congratilated Am on his choice, an' said he reckoned they'd be putty ekally yoked together,
if nothin' else."

Here David leaned over toward Aunt Polly and said, protestingly, "Don't gi' me but jest a teasp'nful
o' that ice cream. I'm so full now 't I can't hardly reach the table." He took a taste of the
cream and resumed: "I can't give it jest as Dick did," he went on, "but this is about the gist
on't. Him, an' Lize, an' Am went to Parson White's about half after seven o'clock an' was showed
into the parler, an' in a minute he come in, an' after sayin' 'Good evenin'' all 'round, he
says, 'Well, what c'n I do for ye?' lookin' at Am an' Lize, an' then at Dick.

"'Wa'al,' says Am, 'me an' Mis' Annis here has ben thinkin' fer some time as how we'd ought
to git married.'

"'Ought to git married?' says Parson White, scowlin' fust at one an' then at t'other.

"'Wa'al,' says Am, givin' a kind o' shuffle with his feet, 'I didn't mean ortter exac'ly, but
jest as well--kinder comp'ny,' he says. 'We hain't neither on us got nobody, an' we thought
we might 's well.'

"'What have you got to git married on?' says the dominie after a minute. 'Anythin'?' he says.

"'Wa'al,' says Am, droppin' his head sideways an' borin' into his ear 'ith his middle finger,
'I got the promise mebbe of a job o' work fer a couple o' days next week.' 'H'm'm'm,' says
the dominie, lookin' at him. 'Have you got anythin' to git married on?' the dominie says, turnin'
to Lize. 'I've got ninety cents comin' to me fer some work I done last week,' she says, wiltin'
down onto the sofy an' beginnin' to snivvle. Dick says that at that the dominie turned round
an' walked to the other end of the room, an' he c'd see he was dyin' to laugh, but he come
back with a straight face.

"'How old air you, Shapless?" he says to Am. 'I'll be fifty-eight or mebbe fifty-nine come
next spring,' says Am.

"'How old air you?' the dominie says, turnin' to Lize. She wriggled a minute an' says, 'Wa'al,
I reckon I'm all o' thirty,' she says."

"All o' thirty!" exclaimed Aunt Polly. "The woman 's most 's old 's I be."

David laughed and went on with, "Wa'al, Dick said at that the dominie give a kind of a choke,
an' Dick he bust right out, an' Lize looked at him as if she c'd eat him. Dick said the dominie
didn't say anythin' fer a minute or two, an' then he says to Am, 'I suppose you c'n find somebody
that'll marry you, but I cert'inly won't, an' what possesses you to commit such a piece o'
folly,' he says, 'passes my understandin'. What earthly reason have you fer wantin' to marry?
On your own showin',' he says, 'neither one on you 's got a cent o' money or any settled way
o' gettin' any.'

"'That's jest the very reason,' says Am, 'that's jest the very reason. I hain't got nothin',
an' Mis' Annis hain't got nothin', an' we figured that we'd jest better git married an' settle
down, an' make a good home fer us both,' an' if that ain't good reasonin'," David concluded,
"I don't know what is."

"An' be they actially married?" asked Mrs. Bixbee, still incredulous of anything so preposterous.

"So Dick says," was the reply. "He says Am an' Lize come away f'm the dominie's putty down
in the mouth, but 'fore long Amri braced up an' allowed that if he had half a dollar he'd try
the squire in the mornin', an' Dick let him have it. I says to Dick, 'You're out fifty cents
on that deal,' an' he says, slappin' his leg, 'I don't give a dum,' he says; 'I wouldn't 'a'
missed it fer double the money.'"

Here David folded his napkin and put it in the ring, and John finished the cup of clear coffee
which Aunt Polly, rather under protest, had given him. Coffee without cream and sugar was incomprehensible
to Mrs. Bixbee.

CHAPTER XXV.

Two or three days after Christmas John was sitting in his room in the evening when there came
a knock at the door, and to his "Come in" there entered Mr. Harum, who was warmly welcomed
and entreated to take the big chair, which, after a cursory survey of the apartment and its
furnishings, he did, saying, "Wa'al, I thought I'd come in an' see how Polly'd got you fixed;
whether the baskit [casket?] was worthy of the jew'l, as I heard a feller say in a theater once."

"I was never more comfortable in my life," said John. "Mrs. Bixbee has been kindness itself,
and even permits me to smoke in the room. Let me give you a cigar."

"Heh! You got putty well 'round Polly, I reckon," said David, looking around the room as he
lighted the cigar, "an' I'm glad you're comf'table--I reckon 't is a shade better 'n the Eagle,"
he remarked, with his characteristic chuckle.

"I should say so," said John emphatically, "and I am more obliged than I can tell you."

"All Polly's doin's," asserted David, holding the end of his cigar critically under his nose.
"That's a trifle better article 'n I'm in the habit of smokin'," he remarked.

"I think it's my one extravagance," said John semi-apologetically, "but I don't smoke them
exclusively. I am very fond of good tobacco, and--"

"I understand," said David, "an' if I had my life to live over agin, knowin' what I do now,
I'd do diff'rent in a number o' ways. I often think," he proceeded, as he took a pull at the
cigar and emitted the smoke with a chewing movement of his mouth, "of what Andy Brown used
to say. Andy was a curious kind of a customer 't I used to know up to Syrchester. He liked
good things, Andy did, an' didn't scrimp himself when they was to be had--that is, when he
had the go-an'-fetch-it to git 'em with. He used to say, 'Boys, whenever you git holt of a
ten-dollar note you want to git it into ye or onto ye jest 's quick 's you kin. We're here
to-day an' gone to-morrer,' he'd say, 'an' the' ain't no pocket in a shroud,' an' I'm dum'd
if I don't think sometimes," declared Mr. Harum, "that he wa'n't very fur off neither. 'T any
rate," he added with a philosophy unexpected by his hearer, "'s I look back, it ain't the money
't I've spent fer the good times 't I've had 't I regret; it's the good times 't I might 's
well 've had an' didn't. I'm inclined to think," he remarked with an air of having given the
matter consideration, "that after Adam an' Eve got bounced out of the gard'n they kicked themselves
as much as anythin' fer not havin' cleaned up the hull tree while they was about it."

John laughed and said that that was very likely among their regrets.

"Trouble with me was," said David, "that till I was consid'able older 'n you be I had to scratch
grav'l like all possessed, an' it's hard work now sometimes to git the idee out of my head
but what the money's wuth more 'n the things. I guess," he remarked, looking at the ivory-backed
brushes and the various toilet knick-knacks of cut-glass and silver which adorned John's bureau,
and indicating them with a motion of his hand, "that up to about now you ben in the habit of
figurin' the other way mostly."

"Too much so, perhaps," said John; "but yet, after all, I don't think I am sorry. I wouldn't
spend the money for those things now, but I am glad I bought them when I did."

"Jess so, jess so," said David appreciatively. He reached over to the table and laid his cigar
on the edge of a book, and, reaching for his hip pocket, produced a silver tobacco box, at
which he looked contemplatively for a moment, opening and shutting the lid with a snap.

"There," he said, holding it out on his palm, "I was twenty years makin' up my mind to buy
that box, an' to this day I can't bring myself to carry it all the time. Yes, sir, I wanted
that box fer twenty years. I don't mean to say that I didn't spend the wuth of it foolishly
times over an' agin, but I couldn't never make up my mind to put that amount o' money into
that pertic'ler thing. I was alwus figurin' that some day I'd have a silver tobacco box, an'
I sometimes think the reason it seemed so extrav'gant, an' I put it off so long, was because
I wanted it so much. Now I s'pose you couldn't understand that, could ye?"

"Yes," said John, nodding his head thoughtfully, "I think I can understand it perfectly," and
indeed it spoke pages of David's biography.

"Yes, sir," said David, "I never spent a small amount o' money but one other time an' got so
much value, only I alwus ben kickin' myself to think I didn't do it sooner."

"Perhaps," suggested John, "you enjoyed it all the more for waiting so long."

"No," said David, "it wa'n't that--I dunno--'t was the feelin' 't I'd got there at last, I
guess. Fur's waitin' fer things is concerned, the' is such a thing as waitin' too long. Your
appetite 'll change mebbe. I used to think when I was a youngster that if ever I got where
I c'd have all the custard pie I c'd eat that'd be all 't I'd ask fer. I used to imagine bein'
baked into one an' eatin' my way out. Nowdays the's a good many things I'd sooner have than
custard pie, though," he said with a wink, "I gen'ally do eat two pieces jest to please Polly."

John laughed. "What was the other thing?" he asked.

"Other thing I once bought?" queried David. "Oh, yes, it was the fust hoss I ever owned. I
give fifteen dollars fer him, an' if he wa'n't a dandy you needn't pay me a cent. Crowbait
wa'n't no name fer him. He was stun blind on the off side, an' couldn't see anythin' in pertic'ler
on the nigh side--couldn't get nigh 'nough, I reckon--an' had most ev'rythin' wrong with him
that c'd ail a hoss; but I thought he was a thoroughbred. I was 'bout seventeen year old then,
an' was helpin' lock-tender on the Erie Canal, an' when the' wa'n't no boat goin' through I
put in most o' my time cleanin' that hoss. If he got through 'th less 'n six times a day he
got off cheap, an' once I got up an' give him a little attention at night. Yes, sir, if I got
big money's wuth out o' that box it was mostly a matter of feelin'; but as fur 's that old
plugamore of a hoss was concerned, I got it both ways, for I got my fust real start out of
his old carkiss."

"Yes?" said John encouragingly.

"Yes, sir," affirmed David, "I cleaned him up, an' fed him up, an' almost got 'im so'st he
c'd see enough out of his left eye to shy at a load of hay close by; an' fin'ly traded him
off fer another record-breaker an' fifteen dollars to boot."

"Were you as enthusiastic over the next one as the first?" asked John, laughing.

"Wa'al," replied David, relighting his temporarily abandoned cigar against a protest and proffer
of a fresh one--"wa'al, he didn't lay holt on my affections to quite the same extent. I done
my duty by him, but I didn't set up with him nights. You see," he added with a grin, "I'd got
some used to bein' a hoss owner, an' the edge had wore off some." He smoked for a minute or
two in silence, with as much apparent relish as if the cigar had not been stale.

"Aren't you going on?" asked John at last

"Wa'al," he replied, pleased with his audience, "I c'd go on, I s'pose, fast enough an' fur
enough, but I don't want to tire ye out. I reckon you never had much to do with canals?"

"No," said John, smiling, "I can't say that I have, but I know something about the subject
in a general way, and there is no fear of your tiring me out."

"All right," proceeded David. "As I was sayin', I got another equine wonder an' fifteen dollars
to boot fer my old plug, an' it wa'n't a great while before I was in the hoss bus'nis to stay.
After between two an' three years I had fifty or sixty hosses an' mules, an' took all sorts
of towin' jobs. Then a big towin' concern quit bus'nis, an' I bought their hull stock an' got
my money back three four times over, an' by the time I was about twenty-one I had got ahead
enough to quit the canal an' all its works fer good, an' go into other things. But there was
where I got my livin' after I run away f'm Buxton Hill. Before I got the job of lock-tendin'
I had made the trip to Albany an' back twice--'walkin' my passage,' as they used to call it,
an' I made one trip helpin' steer, so 't my canal experience was putty thorough, take it all
'round."

"It must have been a pretty hard life," remarked John.

David took out his penknife and proceeded to impale his cigar upon the blade thereof. "No,"
he said, to John's proffer of the box, "this 'll last quite a spell yet. Wa'al," he resumed
after a moment, in reply to John's remark, "viewin' it all by itself, it was a hard life. A
thing is hard though, I reckon, because it's harder 'n somethin' else, or you think so. Most
things go by comparin'. I s'pose if the gen'ral run of trotters never got better 'n three 'n
a half that a hoss that c'd do it in three 'd be fast, but we don't call 'em so nowdays. I
s'pose if at that same age you'd had to tackle the life you'd 'a' found it hard, an' the' was
hard things about it--trampin' all night in the rain, fer instance; sleepin' in barns at times,
an' all that; an' once the cap'n o' the boat got mad at somethin' an' pitched me head over
heels into the canal. It was about the close of navigation an' the' was a scum of ice. I scrambled
out somehow, but he wouldn't 'a' cared if I'd ben drownded. He was an exception, though. The
canalers was a rough set in gen'ral, but they averaged fer disposition 'bout like the ord'nary
run o' folks; the' was mean ones an' clever ones; them that would put upon ye, an' them that
would treat ye decent. The work was hard an' the grub wasn't alwus much better 'n what you--he,
he, he!--what you ben gettin' at the Eagle" (John was now by the way of rather relishing jokes
on that subject); "but I hadn't ben raised in the lap o' luxury--not to any consid'able extent--not
enough to stick my nose up much. The men I worked fer was rough, an' I got my share of cusses
an' cuffs, an' once in a while a kick to keep up my spirit of perseverance; but, on the hull,
I think I got more kindness 'n I did at home (leavin' Polly out), an' as fer gen'ral treatment,
none on 'em c'd come up to my father, an' wuss yet, my oldest brother 'Lish. The cap'n that
throwed me overboard was the wust, but alongside o' 'Lish he was a forty hosspower angil with
a hull music store o' harps; an' even my father c'd 'a' given him cards an' spades; an' as
fer the victuals" (here David dropped his cigar end and pulled from his pocket the silver tobacco
box)--"as fer the victuals," he repeated, "they mostly averaged up putty high after what I'd
ben used to. Why, I don't believe I ever tasted a piece of beefsteak or roast beef in my life
till after I left home. When we had meat at all it was pork--boiled pork, fried pork, pigs'
liver, an' all that, enough to make you 'shamed to look a pig in the face--an' fer the rest,
potatoes, an' duff, an' johnny-cake, an' meal mush, an' milk emptins bread that you c'd smell
a mile after it got cold. With 'leven folks on a small farm nuthin' c'd afford to be eat that
c'd be sold, an' ev'rythin' that couldn't be sold had to be eat. Once in a while the' 'd be
pie of some kind, or gingerbread; but with 'leven to eat 'em I didn't ever git more 'n enough
to set me hankerin'."

"I must say that I think I should have liked the canal better," remarked John as David paused.
"You were, at any rate, more or less free--that is, comparatively, I should say."

"Yes, sir, I did," said David, "an' I never see the time, no matter how rough things was, that
I wished I was back on Buxton Hill. I used to want to see Polly putty bad once in a while,
an' used to figure that if I ever growed up to be a man, an' had money enough, I'd buy her
a new pair o' shoes an' the stuff fer a dress, an' sometimes my cal'lations went as fur 's
a gold breastpin; but I never wanted to see none o' the rest on 'em, an' fer that matter, I
never did. Yes, sir, the old ditch was better to me than the place I was borned in, an', as
you say, I wa'n't nobody's slave, an' I wa'n't scairt to death the hull time. Some o' the men
was rough, but they wa'n't cruel, as a rule, an' as I growed up a little I was putty well able
to look out fer myself--wa'al, wa'al (looking at his watch), I guess you must 'a' had enough
o' my meemores fer one sittin'."

"No, really," John protested, "don't go yet. I have a little proposal to make to you," and
he got up and brought a bottle from the bottom of the washstand.

"Wa'al," said David, "fire it out."

"That you take another cigar and a little of this," holding up the bottle.

"Got any glasses?" asked David with practical mind.

"One and a tooth mug," replied John, laughing. "Glass for you, tooth mug for me. Tastes just
as good out of a tooth mug."

"Wa'al," said David, with a comical air of yielding as he took the glass and held it out to
John, "under protest, stric'ly under protest--sooner than have my clo'es torn. I shall tell
Polly--if I should happen to mention it--that you threatened me with vi'lence. Wa'al, here's
lookin' at ye," which toast was drunk with the solemnity which befitted it.

CHAPTER XXVI.

The two men sat for a while smoking in silence, John taking an occasional sip of his grog.
Mr. Harum had swallowed his own liquor "raw," as was the custom in Homeville and vicinity,
following the potation with a mouthful of water. Presently he settled a little farther down
in his chair and his face took on a look of amused recollection.

He looked up and gave a short laugh. "Speakin' of canals," he said, as if the subject had only
been casually mentioned, "I was thinkin' of somethin'."

"Yes?" said John.

"E-up," said David. "That old ditch f'm Albany to Buffalo was an almighty big enterprise in
them days, an' a great thing fer the prosperity of the State, an' a good many better men 'n
I be walked the ole towpath when they was young. Yes, sir, that's a fact. Wa'al, some years
ago I had somethin' of a deal on with a New York man by the name of Price. He had a place in
Newport where his fam'ly spent the summer, an' where he went as much as he could git away.
I was down to New York to see him, an' we hadn't got things quite straightened out, an' he
says to me, 'I'm goin' over to Newport, where my wife an' fam'ly is, fer Sunday, an' why can't
you come with me,' he says, 'an' stay over till Monday? an' we c'n have the day to ourselves
over this matter?' 'Wa'al,' I says, 'I'm only down here on this bus'nis, an' as I left a hen
on, up home, I'm willin' to save the time 'stid of waitin' here fer you to git back, if you
don't think,' I says, 'that it'll put Mis' Price out any to bring home a stranger without no
notice.'

"'Wa'al,' he says, laughin', 'I guess she c'n manage fer once,' an' so I went along. When we
got there the' was a carriage to meet us, an' two men in uniform, one to drive an' one to open
the door, an' we got in an' rode up to the house--cottige, he called it, but it was built of
stone, an' wa'n't only about two sizes smaller 'n the Fifth Avenue Hotel. Some kind o' doin's
was goin' on, fer the house was blazin' with light, an' music was playin'.

"'What's on?' says Price to the feller that let us in.

"'Sir and Lady somebody 's dinin' here to-night, sir,' says the man.

"'Damn!' says Price, 'I fergot all about the cussed thing. Have Mr. Harum showed to a room,'
he says, 'an' serve dinner in my office in a quarter of an hour, an' have somebody show Mr.
Harum there when it's ready.'

"Wa'al," pursued David, "I was showed up to a room. The' was lace coverin's on the bed pillers,
an' a silk an' lace spread, an' more dum trinkits an' bottles an' lookin'-glasses 'n you c'd
shake a stick at, an' a bathroom, an' Lord knows what; an' I washed up, an' putty soon one
o' them fellers come an' showed me down to where Price was waitin'. Wa'al, we had all manner
o' things fer supper, an' champagne, an' so on, an' after we got done, Price says, 'I've got
to ask you to excuse me, Harum,' he says. 'I've got to go an' dress an' show up in the drawin'-room,'
he says. 'You smoke your cigar in here, an' when you want to go to your room jest ring the bell.'

"'All right,' I says. 'I'm 'bout ready to turn in anyway.'"

The narrator paused for a moment. John was rather wondering what it all had to do with the
Erie Canal, but he said nothing.

"Wa'al, next mornin'," David resumed, "I got up an' shaved an' dressed, an' set 'round waitin'
fer the breakfust bell to ring till nigh on to half-past nine o'clock. Bom-by the' came a knock
at the door, an' I says, 'Come in,' an' in come one o' them fellers. 'Beg pah'din, sir,' he
says. 'Did you ring, sir?'

"'No,' I says, 'I didn't ring. I was waitin' to hear the bell.'

"'Thank you, sir,' he says. 'An' will you have your breakfust now, sir?'

"'Where?' I says.

"'Oh,' he says, kind o' grinnin', 'I'll bring it up here, sir, d'rec'ly,' he says, an' went
off. Putty soon come another knock, an' in come the feller with a silver tray covered with
a big napkin, an' on it was a couple of rolls wrapped up in a napkin, a b'iled egg done up
in another napkin, a cup an' saucer, a little chiney coffee-pot, a little pitcher of cream,
some loaf sugar in a silver dish, a little pancake of butter, a silver knife, two little spoons
like what the childern play with, a silver pepper duster an' salt dish, an' an orange. Oh,
yes, the' was another contraption--a sort of a chiney wineglass. The feller set down the tray
an' says, 'Anythin' else you'd like to have, sir?'

"'No,' I says, lookin' it over, 'I guess there's enough to last me a day or two,' an' with
that he kind o' turned his face away fer a second or two. 'Thank you, sir,' he says. 'The second
breakfust is at half-past twelve, sir,' an' out he put. Wa'al," David continued, "the bread
an' butter was all right enough, exceptin' they'd fergot the salt in the butter, an' the coffee
was all right; but when it come to the egg, dum'd if I wa'n't putty nigh out of the race; but
I made up my mind it must be hard-b'iled, an' tackled it on that idee. Seems t' amuse ye,"
he said with a grin, getting up and helping himself. After swallowing the refreshment, and
the palliating mouthful of water, he resumed his seat and his narrative.

"Wa'al, sir," he said, "that dum'd egg was about 's near raw as it was when i' was laid, an'
the' was a crack in the shell, an' fust thing I knowed it kind o' c'lapsed, an' I give it a
grab, an' it squirtid all over my pants, an' the floor, an' on my coat an' vest, an' up my
sleeve, an' all over the tray. Scat my ----! I looked gen'ally like an ab'lition orator before
the war. You never see such a mess," he added, with an expression of rueful recollection. "I
believe that dum'd egg held more 'n a pint."

John fairly succumbed to a paroxysm of laughter.

"Funny, wa'n't it?" said David dryly.

"Forgive me," pleaded John, when he got his breath.

"Oh, that's all right," said David, "but it wa'n't the kind of emotion it kicked up in my breast
at the time. I cleaned myself up with a towel well 's I could, an' thought I'd step out an'
take the air before the feller 'd come back to git that tray, an' mebbe rub my nose in't."

"Oh, Lord!" cried John.

"Yes, sir," said David, unheeding, "I allowed 't I'd walk 'round with my mouth open a spell,
an' git a little air on my stomech to last me till that second breakfust; an' as I was pokin'
'round the grounds I come to a sort of arbor, an' there was Price, smokin' a cigar.

"'Mornin', Harum; how you feelin'?' he says, gettin' up an' shakin' hands; an' as we passed
the time o' day, I noticed him noticin' my coat. You see as they dried out, the egg spots got
to showin' agin.

"'Got somethin' on your coat there,' he says.

"'Yes,' I says, tryin' to scratch it out with my finger nail.

"'Have a cigar?' he says, handin' one out.

"'Never smoke on an empty stomach,' I says.

"'What?' he says.

"'Bad fer the ap'tite,' I says, 'an' I'm savin' mine fer that second breakfust o' your'n.'

"'What!' he says, 'haven't you had anythin' to eat?' An' then I told him what I ben tellin'
you. Wa'al, sir, fust he looked kind o' mad an' disgusted, an' then he laughed till I thought
he'd bust, an' when he quit he says, 'Excuse me, Harum, it's too damned bad; but I couldn't
help laughin' to save my soul. An' it's all my fault too,' he says. 'I intended to have you
take your breakfust with me, but somethin' happened last night to upset me, an' I woke with
it on my mind, an' I fergot. Now you jest come right into the house, an' I'll have somethin'
got fer you that'll stay your stomach better 'n air,' he says.

"'No,' I says, 'I've made trouble enough fer one day, I guess,' an' I wouldn't go, though he
urged me agin an' agin. 'You don't fall in with the customs of this region?' I says to him.

"'Not in that pertic'ler, at any rate,' he says. 'It's one o' the fool notions that my wife
an' the girls brought home f'm Eurup. I have a good solid meal in the mornin', same as I alwus
did,' he says."

Mr. Harum stopped talking to relight his cigar, and after a puff or two, "When I started out,"
he said, "I hadn't no notion of goin' into all the highways an' byways, but when I git begun
one thing's apt to lead to another, an' you never c'n tell jest where I will fetch up. Now
I started off to tell somethin' in about two words, an' I'm putty near as fur off as when I begun."

"Well," said John, "it's Saturday night, and the longer your story is the better I shall like
it. I hope the second breakfast was more of a success than the first one," he added with a laugh.

"I managed to average up on the two meals, I guess," David remarked. "Wa'al," he resumed, "Price
an' I set 'round talkin' bus'nis an' things till about twelve or a little after, mebbe, an'
then he turned to me an' kind o' looked me over an' says, 'You an' me is about of a build,
an' if you say so I'll send one of my coats an' vests up to your room an' have the man take
yours an' clean 'em.'

"'I guess the' is ruther more egg showin' than the law allows,' I says, 'an' mebbe that 'd
be a good idee; but the pants caught it the wust,' I says.

"'Mine'll fit ye,' he says.

"'What'll your wife say to seein' me airifyin' 'round in your git-up?' I says. He gin me a
funny kind of look. 'My wife?' he says. 'Lord, she don't know more about my clo'es 'n you do.'
That struck me as bein' ruther curious," remarked David. "Wouldn't it you?"

"Very," replied John gravely.

"Yes, sir," said David. "Wa'al, when we went into the eatin' room the table was full, mostly
young folks, chatterin' an' laughin'. Price int'duced me to his wife, an' I set down by him
at the other end of the table. The' wa'n't nothin' wuth mentionin'; nobody paid any attention
to me 'cept now an' then a word from Price, an' I wa'n't fer talkin' anyway--I c'd have eat
a raw dog. After breakfust, as they called it, Price an' I went out onto the verandy an' had
some coffee, an' smoked an' talked fer an hour or so, an' then he got up an' excused himself
to write a letter. 'You may like to look at the papers awhile,' he says. 'I've ordered the
hosses at five, an' if you like I'll show you 'round a little.'

"'Won't your wife be wantin' 'em?' I says.

"'No, I guess she'll git along,' he says, kind o' smilin'.

"'All right,' I says, 'don't mind me.' An' so at five up come the hosses an' the two fellers
in uniform an' all. I was lookin' the hosses over when Price come out. 'Wa'al, what do you
think of 'em?' he says.

"'Likely pair,' I says, goin' over an' examinin' the nigh one's feet an' legs. 'Sore forr'ed?'
I says, lookin' up at the driver.

"'A trifle, sir,' he says, touchin' his hat.

"'What's that?' says Price, comin' up an' examinin' the critter's face an' head. 'I don't see
anythin' the matter with his forehead,' he says. I looked up an' give the driver a wink," said
David with a chuckle, "an' he give kind of a chokin' gasp, but in a second was lookin' as solemn
as ever.

"I can't tell ye jest where we went," the narrator proceeded, "but anyway it was where all
the nabobs turned out, an' I seen more style an' git-up in them two hours 'n I ever see in
my life, I reckon. The' didn't appear to be no one we run across that, accordin' to Price's
tell, was wuth under five million, though we may 'a' passed one without his noticin'; an' the'
was a good many that run to fifteen an' twenty an' over, an' most on 'em, it appeared, was
f'm New York. Wa'al, fin'ly we got back to the house a little 'fore seven. On the way back
Price says, 'The' are goin' to be three four people to dinner to-night in a quiet way, an'
the' ain't no reason why you shouldn't stay dressed jest as you are, but if you would feel
like puttin' on evenin' clo'es (that's what he called 'em), why I've got an extry suit that'll
fit ye to a "tee,"' he says.

"'No,' I says, 'I guess I better not. I reckon I'd better git my grip an' go to the hotel.
I sh'd be ruther bashful to wear your swallertail, an' all them folks'll be strangers,' I says.
But he insisted on't that I sh'd come to dinner anyway, an' fin'ly I gin in, an' thinkin' I
might 's well go the hull hog, I allowed I'd wear his clo'es; 'but if I do anythin' or say
anythin' 't you don't like,' says I, 'don't say I didn't warn ye.' What would you 'a' done?"
Mr. Harum asked.

"Worn the clothes without the slightest hesitation," replied John. "Nobody gave your costume
a thought."

"They didn't appear to, fer a fact," said David, "an' I didn't either, after I'd slipped up
once or twice on the matter of pockets. The same feller brought 'em up to me that fetched the
stuff in the mornin'; an' the rig was complete--coat, vest, pants, shirt, white necktie, an',
by gum! shoes an' silk socks, an', sir, scat my ----! the hull outfit fitted me as if it was
made fer me. 'Shell I wait on you, sir?' says the man. 'No,' I says, 'I guess I c'n git into
the things; but mebbe you might come up in 'bout quarter of an hour an' put on the finishin'
touches, an' here,' I says, 'I guess that brand of eggs you give me this mornin' 's wuth about
two dollars apiece.'

"'Thank you, sir,' he says, grinnin', 'I'd like to furnish 'em right along at that rate, sir,
an' I'll be up as you say, sir.'"

"You found the way to his heart," said John, smiling.

"My experience is," said David dryly, "that most men's hearts is located ruther closter to
their britchis pockets than they are to their breast pockets."

"I'm afraid that's so," said John.

"But this feller," Mr. Harum continued, "was a putty decent kind of a chap. He come up after
I'd got into my togs an' pulled me here, an' pulled me there, an' fixed my necktie, an' hitched
me in gen'ral so'st I wa'n't neither too tight nor too free, an' when he got through, 'You'll
do now, sir,' he says.

"'Think I will?' says I.

"'Couldn't nobody look more fit, sir,' he says, an' I'm dum'd," said David, with an assertive
nod, "when I looked at myself in the lookin'-glass. I scurcely knowed myself, an' (with a confidential
lowering of the voice) when I got back to New York the very fust hard work I done was to go
an' buy the hull rig-out--an'," he added with a grin, "strange as it may appear, it ain't wore
out yit."

CHAPTER XXVII.

"People don't dress for dinner in Homeville, as a rule, then," John said, smiling.

"No," said Mr. Harum, "when they dress fer breakfust that does 'em fer all three meals. I've
wore them things two three times when I've ben down to the city, but I never had 'em on but
once up here."

"No?" said John.

"No," said David, "I put 'em on once to show to Polly how city folks dressed--he, he, he, he!--an'
when I come into the room she set forwud on her chair an' stared at me over her specs. 'What
on airth!' she says.

"'I bought these clo'es,' I says, 'to wear when bein' ent'tained by the fust fam'lies. How
do I look?' I says.

"'Turn 'round,' she says. 'You look f'm behind,' she says, 'like a red-headed snappin' bug,
an' in front,' she says, as I turned agin, 'like a reg'lar slinkum. I'll bet,' she says, 'that
you hain't throwed away less 'n twenty dollars on that foolishniss.' Polly's a very conserv'tive
person," remarked her brother, "and don't never imagine a vain thing, as the Bible says, not
when she knows it, an' I thought it wa'n't wuth while to argue the point with her."

John laughed and said, "Do you recall that memorable interview between the governors of the
two Carolinas?"

"Nothin' in the historical lit'riture of our great an' glorious country," replied Mr. Harum
reverently, "sticks closter to my mind--like a burr to a cow's tail," he added, by way of illustration.
"Thank you, jest a mouthful."

"How about the dinner?" John asked after a little interlude. "Was it pleasant?"

"Fust rate," declared David. "The young folks was out somewhere else, all but one o' Price's
girls. The' was twelve at the table all told. I was int'duced to all of 'em in the parlor,
an' putty soon in come one of the fellers an' said somethin' to Mis' Price that meant dinner
was ready, an' the girl come up to me an' took holt of my arm. 'You're goin' to take me out,'
she says, an' we formed a procession an' marched out to the dinin' room. 'You're to sit by
mammer,' she says, showin' me, an' there was my name on a card, sure enough. Wa'al, sir, that
table was a show! I couldn't begin to describe it to ye. The' was a hull flower garden in the
middle, an' a worked tablecloth; four five glasses of all colors an' sizes at ev'ry plate,
an' a nosegay, an' five six diff'rent forks an' a lot o' knives, though fer that matter," remarked
the speaker, "the' wa'n't but one knife in the lot that amounted to anythin', the rest on 'em
wouldn't hold nothin'; an' the' was three four sort of chiney slates with what they call--the--you
'n me----"

"Menu," suggested John.

"I guess that's it," said David, "but that wa'n't the way it was spelt. Wa'al, I set down an'
tucked my napkin into my neck, an' though I noticed none o' the rest on 'em seemed to care,
I allowed that 't wa'n't my shirt, an' mebbe Price might want to wear it agin 'fore 't was washed."

John put his handkerchief over his face and coughed violently. David looked at him sharply.
"Subject to them spells?" he asked.

"Sometimes," said John when he recovered his voice, and then, with as clear an expression of
innocence as he could command, but somewhat irrelevantly, asked, "How did you get on with Mrs.
Price?"

"Oh," said David, "nicer 'n a cotton hat. She appeared to be a quiet sort of woman that might
'a' lived anywhere, but she was dressed to kill--an' so was the rest on 'em, fer that matter,"
he remarked with a laugh. "I tried to tell Polly about 'em afterwuds, an'--he, he, he!--she
shut me up mighty quick, an' I thought myself at the time, thinks I, it's a good thing it's
warm weather, I says to myself. Oh, yes, Mis' Price made me feel quite to home, but I didn't
talk much the fust part of dinner, an' I s'pose she was more or less took up with havin' so
many folks at table; but fin'ly she says to me, 'Mr. Price was so annoyed about your breakfust,
Mr. Harum.'

"'Was he?' I says. 'I was afraid you'd be the one that 'd be vexed at me.'

"'Vexed with you? I don't understand,' she says.

"''Bout the napkin I sp'iled,' I says. 'Mebbe not actially sp'iled,' I says, 'but it'll have
to go into the wash 'fore it c'n be used agin.' She kind o' smiled, an' says, 'Really, Mr.
Harum, I don't know what you are talkin' about.'

"'Hain't nobody told ye?' I says. 'Well, if they hain't they will, an' I may 's well make a
clean breast on't. I'm awful sorry,' I says, 'but this mornin' when I come to the egg I didn't
see no way to eat it 'cept to peel it, an' fust I knew it kind of exploded and daubed ev'rythin'
all over creation. Yes'm,' I says, 'it went off, 's ye might say, like old Elder Maybee's powder,'
I guess," said David, "that I must 'a' ben talkin' ruther louder 'n I thought, fer I looked
up an' noticed that putty much ev'ry one on 'em was lookin' our way, an' kind o' laughin',
an' Price in pertic'ler was grinnin' straight at me.

"'What's that,' he says, 'about Elder Maybee's powder?'

"'Oh, nuthin' much,' I says, 'jest a little supprise party the elder had up to his house.'

"'Tell us about it,' says Price. 'Oh, yes, do tell us about it,' says Mis' Price.

"'Wa'al,' I says, 'the' ain't much to it in the way of a story, but seein' dinner must be most
through,' I says, 'I'll tell ye all the' was of it. The elder had a small farm 'bout two miles
out of the village,' I says, 'an' he was great on raisin' chickins an' turkeys. He was a slow,
putterin' kind of an ole foozle, but on the hull a putty decent citizen. Wa'al,' I says, 'one
year when the poultry was comin' along, a family o' skunks moved onto the premises an' done
so well that putty soon, as the elder said, it seemed to him that it was comin' to be a ch'ice
between the chickin bus'nis an' the skunk bus'nis, an' though he said he'd heard the' was money
in it, if it was done on a big enough scale, he hadn't ben edicated to it, he said, and didn't
take to it any ways. So,' I says, 'he scratched 'round an' got a lot o' traps an' set 'em,
an' the very next mornin' he went out an' found he'd ketched an ole he-one--president of the
comp'ny. So he went to git his gun to shoot the critter, an' found he hadn't got no powder.
The boys had used it all up on woodchucks, an' the' wa'n't nothin' fer it but to git some more
down to the village, an', as he had some more things to git, he hitched up 'long in the forenoon
an' drove down.' At this," said David, "one of the ladies, wife to the judge, name o' Pomfort,
spoke up an' says, 'Did he leave that poor creature to suffer all that time? Couldn't it have
been put out of it's misery some other way?'

"'Wa'al marm,' I says, 'I never happened to know but one feller that set out to kill one o'
them things with a club, an' he put in most o' his time fer a week or two up in the woods hatin'
himself,' I says. 'He didn't mingle in gen'ral soci'ty, an' in fact,' I says, 'he had the hull
road to himself, as ye might say, fer a putty consid'able spell.'"

John threw back his head and laughed. "Did she say any more?" he asked.

"No," said David with a chuckle. "All the men set up a great laugh, an' she colored up in a
kind of huff at fust, an' then she begun to laugh too, an' then one o' the waiter fellers put
somethin' down in front of me an' I went eatin' agin. But putty soon Price, he says, 'Come,'
he says, 'Harum, ain't you goin' on? How about that powder?'

"'Wa'al,' I says, 'mebbe we had ought to put that critter out of his misery. The elder went
down an' bought a pound o' powder an' had it done up in a brown paper bundle, an' put it with
his other stuff in the bottom of his dem'crat wagin; but it come on to rain some while he was
ridin' back, an' the stuff got more or less wet, an' so when he got home he spread it out in
a dishpan an' put it under the kitchen stove to dry, an' thinkin' that it wa'n't dryin' fast
enough, I s'pose, made out to assist Nature, as the sayin' is, by stirrin' on't up with the
kitchin poker. Wa'al,' I says, 'I don't jest know how it happened, an' the elder cert'inly
didn't, fer after they'd got him untangled f'm under what was left of the woodshed an' the
kitchin stove, an' tied him up in cotton battin', an' set his leg, an' put out the house, an'
a few things like that, bom-by he come round a little, an' the fust thing he says was, "Wa'al,
wa'al, wa'al!" "What is it, pa?" says Mis' Maybee, bendin' down over him. "That peowder," he
says, in almost no voice, "that peowder! I was jest stirrin' on't a little, an' it went o-f-f,
it went o-f-f," he says, "seemin'ly--in--a--minute!" an' that,' I says to Mis' Price, 'was
what that egg done.'

"'We'll have to forgive you that egg,' she says, laughin' like ev'rything, 'for Elder Maybee's
sake'; an' in fact," said David, "they all laughed except one feller. He was an Englishman--I
fergit his name. When I got through he looked kind o' puzzled an' says" (Mr. Harum imitated
his style as well as he could), "'But ra'ally, Mr. Harum, you kneow that's the way powdah always
geoes off, don't you kneow,' an' then," said David, "they laughed harder 'n ever, an' the Englishman
got redder 'n a beet."

"What did you say?" asked John.

"Nuthin'," said David. "They was all laughin' so't I couldn't git in a word, an' then the waiter
brought me another plateful of somethin'. Scat my ----!" he exclaimed, "I thought that dinner
'd go on till kingdom come. An' wine! Wa'al! I begun to feel somethin' like the old feller
did that swallered a full tumbler of white whisky, thinkin' it was water. The old feller was
temp'rence, an' the boys put up a job on him one hot day at gen'ral trainin'. Somebody ast
him afterwuds how it made him feel, an' he said he felt as if he was sittin' straddle the meetin'
house, an' ev'ry shingle was a Jew's-harp. So I kep' mum fer a while. But jest before we fin'ly
got through, an' I hadn't said nothin' fer a spell, Mis' Price turned to me an' says, 'Did
you have a pleasant drive this afternoon?'

"'Yes'm,' I says, 'I seen the hull show, putty much. I guess poor folks must be 't a premium
'round here. I reckon,' I says, 'that if they'd club together, the folks your husband p'inted
out to me to-day could almost satisfy the requirements of the 'Merican Soci'ty fer For'n Missions.'
Mis' Price laughed, an' looked over at her husband. 'Yes,' says Price, 'I told Mr. Harum about
some of the people we saw this afternoon, an' I must say he didn't appear to be as much impressed
as I thought he would. How's that, Harum?' he says to me.

"'Wa'al,' says I, 'I was thinkin' 't I'd like to bet you two dollars to a last year's bird's
nest,' I says, 'that if all them fellers we seen this afternoon, that air over fifty, c'd be
got together, an' some one was suddinly to holler "LOW BRIDGE!" that nineteen out o' twenty
'd duck their heads.'"

"And then?" queried John.

"Wa'al," said David, "all on 'em laughed some, but Price--he jest lay back an' roared, and
I found out afterwuds," added David, "that ev'ry man at the table, except the Englis'man, know'd
what 'low bridge' meant from actial experience. Wa'al, scat my ----!" he exclaimed, as he looked
at his watch, "it ain't hardly wuth while undressin'," and started for the door. As he was
halfway through it, he turned and said, "Say, I s'pose you'd 'a' known what to do with that
egg," but he did not wait for a reply.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

It must not be understood that the Harums, Larrabees, Robinsons, Elrights, and sundry who have
thus far been mentioned, represented the only types in the prosperous and enterprising village
of Homeville, and David perhaps somewhat magnified the one-time importance of the Cullom family,
although he was speaking of a period some forty years earlier. Be that as it may, there were
now a good many families, most of them descendants of early settlers, who lived in good and
even fine houses, and were people of refinement and considerable wealth. These constituted
a coterie of their own, though they were on terms of acquaintance and comity with the "village
people," as they designated the rank and file of the Homeville population. To these houses
came in the summer sons and daughters, nieces, nephews, and grandchildren, and at the period
of which I am writing there had been built on the shore of the lake, or in its vicinity, a
number of handsome and stately residences by people who had been attracted by the beauty of
the situation and the salubrity of the summer climate. And so, for some months in the pleasant
season, the village was enlivened by a concourse of visitors who brought with them urban customs,
costumes, and equipages, and gave a good deal of life and color to the village streets. Then
did Homeville put its best foot forward and money in its pouch.

"I ain't what ye might call an old residenter," said David, "though I was part raised on Buxton
Hill, an' I ain't so well 'quainted with the nabobs; but Polly's lived in the village ever
sence she got married, an' knows their fam'ly hist'ry, dam, an' sire, an' pedigree gen'ally.
Of course," he remarked, "I know all the men folks, an' they know me, but I never ben into
none o' their houses except now an' then on a matter of bus'nis, an' I guess," he said with
a laugh, "that Polly 'd allow 't she don't spend all her time in that circle. Still," he added,
"they all know her, an' ev'ry little while some o' the women folks 'll come in an' see her.
She's putty popular, Polly is," he concluded.

"I should think so, indeed," remarked John.

"Yes, sir," said David, "the's worse folks 'n Polly Bixbee, if she don't put on no style; an'
the fact is, that some of the folks that lives here the year 'round, an' always have, an' call
the rest on us 'village people,' 'r' jest as countryfied in their way 's me an' Polly is in
our'n--only they don't know it. 'Bout the only diff'rence is the way they talk an' live." John
looked at Mr. Harum in some doubt as to the seriousness of the last remark.

"Go to the 'Piscopal church, an' have what they call dinner at six o'clock," said David. "Now,
there's the The'dore Verjooses," he continued; "the 'rig'nal Verjoos come an' settled here
some time in the thirties, I reckon. He was some kind of a Dutchman, I guess" ["Dutchman" was
Mr. Harum's generic name for all people native to the Continent of Europe]; "but he had some
money, an' bought land an' morgidges, an' so on, an' havin' money--money was awful scurce in
them early days--made more; never spent anythin' to speak of, an' died pinchin' the 'rig'nal
cent he started in with."

"He was the father of Mr. Verjoos the other banker here, I suppose?" said John.

"Yes," said David, "the' was two boys an' a sister. The oldest son, Alferd, went into the law
an' done bus'nis in Albany, an' afterw'ds moved to New York; but he's always kept up the old
place here. The old man left what was a good deal o' propity fer them days, an' Alf he kept
his share an' made more. He was in the Assembly two three terms, an' afterw'ds member of Congress,
an' they do say," remarked Mr. Harum with a wink, "that he never lost no money by his politics.
On the other hand, The'dore made more or less of a muddle on't, an' 'mongst 'em they set him
up in the bankin' bus'nis. I say 'them' because the Verjooses, an' the Rogerses, an' the Swaynes,
an' a lot of 'em, is all more or less related to each other, but Alf's reely the one at the
bottom on't, an' after The 'd lost most of his money it was the easiest way to kind o' keep
him on his legs."

"He seems a good-natured, easy-going sort of person," said John by way of comment, and, truth
to say, not very much interested.

"Oh, yes," said David rather contemptuously, "you could drive him with a tow string. He don't
know enough to run away. But what I was gettin' at was this: He an' his wife--he married one
of the Tenakers--has lived right here fer the Lord knows how long; born an' brought up here
both on 'em, an' somehow we're 'village people' an' they ain't, that's all."

"Rather a fine distinction," remarked his hearer, smiling.

"Yes, sir," said David. "Now, there's old maid Allis, relative of the Rogerses, lives all alone
down on Clark Street in an old house that hain't had a coat o' paint or a new shingle sence
the three Thayers was hung, an' she talks about the folks next door, both sides, that she's
knowed alwus, as 'village people,' and I don't believe," asserted the speaker, "she was ever
away f'm Homeville two weeks in the hull course of her life. She's a putty decent sort of a
woman too," Mr. Harum admitted. "If the' was a death in the house she'd go in an' help, but
she wouldn't never think of askin' one on 'em to tea."

"I suppose you have heard it said," remarked John, laughing, "that it takes all sorts of people
to make a world."

"I think I hev heard a rumor to that effect," said David, "an' I guess the' 's about as much
human nature in some folks as the' is in others, if not more."

"And I don't fancy that it makes very much difference to you," said John, "whether the Verjooses
or Miss Allis call you 'village people' or not."

"Don't cut no figger at all," declared Mr. Harum. "Polly 'n I are too old to set up fer shapes
even if we wanted to. A good fair road-gait 's good enough fer me; three square meals, a small
portion of the 'filthy weed,' as it's called in po'try, a hoss 'r two, a ten-dollar note where
you c'n lay your hand on't, an' once in a while, when your consciunce pricks ye, a little somethin'
to permote the cause o' temp'rence, an' make the inwurd moniter quit jerkin' the reins--wa'al,
I guess I c'n git along, heh?"

"Yes," said John, by way of making some rejoinder, "if one has all one needs it is enough."

"Wa'al, yes," observed the philosopher, "that's so, as you might say, up to a certain point,
an' in some ways. I s'pose a feller could git along, but at the same time I've noticed that,
gen'ally speakin', a leetle too big 's about the right size."

"I am told," said John, after a pause in which the conversation seemed to be dying out for
lack of fuel, and apropos of nothing in particular, "that Homeville is quite a summer resort."

"Quite a consid'able," responded Mr. Harum. "It has ben to some extent fer a good many years,
an' it's gettin' more an' more so all the time, only diff'rent. I mean," he said, "that the
folks that come now make more show an' most on 'em who ain't visitin' their relations either
has places of their own or hires 'em fer the summer. One time some folks used to come an' stay
at the hotel. The' was quite a fair one then," he explained; "but it burned up, an' wa'n't
never built up agin because it had got not to be thought the fash'nable thing to put up there.
Mis' Robinson (Dug's wife), an' Mis' Truman, 'round on Laylock Street, has some fam'lies that
come an' board with them ev'ry year, but that's about all the boardin' the' is nowdays." Mr.
Harum stopped and looked at his companion thoughtfully for a moment, as if something had just
occurred to him.

"The' 'll be more o' your kind o' folk 'round, come summer," he said; and then, on a second
thought, "you're 'Piscopal, ain't ye?"

"I have always attended that service," replied John, smiling, "and I have gone to St. James's
here nearly every Sunday."

"Hain't they taken any notice of ye?" asked David.

"Mr. Euston, the rector, called upon me," said John, "but I have made no further acquaintances."

"E-um'm!" said David, and, after a moment, in a sort of confidential tone, "Do you like goin'
to church?" he asked.

"Well," said John, "that depends--yes, I think I do. I think it is the proper thing," he concluded
weakly.

"Depends some on how a feller's ben brought up, don't ye think so?" said David.

"I should think it very likely," John assented, struggling manfully with a yawn.

"I guess that's about my case," remarked Mr. Harum, "an' I sh'd have to admit that I ain't
much of a hand fer church-goin'. Polly has the princ'pal charge of that branch of the bus'nis,
an' the one I stay away from, when I don't go," he said with a grin, "'s the Prespyteriun."
John laughed.

"No, sir," said David, "I ain't much of a hand for't. Polly used to worry at me about it till
I fin'ly says to her, 'Polly,' I says, 'I'll tell ye what I'll do. I'll compermise with ye,'
I says. 'I won't undertake to foller right along in your track--I hain't got the req'sit speed,'
I says, 'but f'm now on I'll go to church reg'lar on Thanksgivin'.' It was putty near Thanksgivin'
time," he remarked, "an' I dunno but she thought if she c'd git me started I'd finish the heat,
an' so we fixed it at that."

"Of course," said John with a laugh, "you kept your promise?"

"Wa'al, sir," declared David with the utmost gravity, "fer the next five years I never missed
attendin' church on Thanksgivin' day but four times; but after that," he added, "I had to beg
off. It was too much of a strain," he declared with a chuckle, "an' it took more time 'n Polly
c'd really afford to git me ready." And so he rambled on upon such topics as suggested themselves
to his mind, or in reply to his auditor's comments and questions, which were, indeed, more
perfunctory than otherwise. For the Verjooses, the Rogerses, the Swaynes, and the rest, were
people whom John not only did not know, but whom he neither expected nor cared to know; and
so his present interest in them was extremely small.

Outside of his regular occupations, and despite the improvement in his domestic environment,
life was so dull for him that he could not imagine its ever being otherwise in Homeville. It
was a year since the world--his world--had come to an end, and though his sensations of loss
and defeat had passed the acute stage, his mind was far from healthy. He had evaded David's
question, or only half answered it, when he merely replied that the rector had called upon
him. The truth was that some tentative advances had been made to him, and Mr. Euston had presented
him to a few of the people in his flock; but beyond the point of mere politeness he had made
no response, mainly from indifference, but to a degree because of a suspicion that his connection
with Mr. Harum would not, to say the least, enhance his position in the minds of certain of
the people of Homeville. As has been intimated, it seemed at the outset of his career in the
village as if there had been a combination of circumstance and effort to put him on his guard,
and, indeed, rather to prejudice him against his employer; and Mr. Harum, as it now appeared
to our friend, had on one or two occasions laid himself open to misjudgment, if no more. No
allusion had ever been made to the episode of the counterfeit money by either his employer
or himself, and it was not till months afterward that the subject was brought up by Mr. Richard
Larrabee, who sauntered into the bank one morning. Finding no one there but John, he leaned
over the counter on his elbows, and, twisting one leg about the other in a restful attitude,
proceeded to open up a conversation upon various topics of interest to his mind. Dick was Mr.
Harum's confidential henchman and factotum, although not regularly so employed. His chief object
in life was apparently to get as much amusement as possible out of that experience, and he
was quite unhampered by over-nice notions of delicacy or bashfulness. But, withal, Mr. Larrabee
was a very honest and loyal person, strong in his likes and dislikes, devoted to David, for
whom he had the greatest admiration, and he had taken a fancy to our friend, stoutly maintaining
that he "wa'n't no more stuck-up 'n you be," only, as he remarked to Bill Perkins, "he hain't
had the advantigis of your bringin' up."

After some preliminary talk--"Say," he said to John, "got stuck with any more countyfit money
lately?"

John's face reddened a little and Dick laughed.

"The old man told me about it," he said. "Say, you'd ought to done as he told ye to. You'd
'a' saved fifteen dollars," Dick declared, looking at our friend with an expression of the
utmost amusement.

"I don't quite understand," said John rather stiffly.

"Didn't he tell ye to charge 'em up to the bank, an' let him take 'em?" asked Dick.

"Well?" said John shortly.

"Oh, yes, I know," said Mr. Larrabee. "He said sumpthin' to make you think he was goin' to
pass 'em out, an' you didn't give him no show to explain, but jest marched into the back room
an' stuck 'em onto the fire. Ho, ho, ho, ho! He told me all about it," cried Dick. "Say," he
declared, "I dunno 's I ever see the old man more kind o' womble-cropped over anythin'. Why,
he wouldn't no more 'a' passed them bills 'n he'd 'a' cut his hand off. He, he, he, he! He
was jest ticklin' your heels a little," said Mr. Larrabee, "to see if you'd kick, an'," chuckled
the speaker, "you surely did."

"Perhaps I acted rather hastily," said John, laughing a little from contagion.

"Wa'al," said Dick, "Dave's got ways of his own. I've summered an' wintered with him now for
a good many years, an' I ain't got to the bottom of him yet, an'," he added, "I don't know
nobody that has."

CHAPTER XXIX.

Although, as time went on and John had come to a better insight of the character of the eccentric
person whom Dick had failed to fathom, his half-formed prejudices had fallen away, it must
be admitted that he ofttimes found him a good deal of a puzzle. The domains of the serious
and the facetious in David's mind seemed to have no very well defined boundaries.

The talk had drifted back to the people and gossip of Homeville, but, sooth to say, it had
not on this occasion got far away from those topics.

"Yes," said Mr. Harum, "Alf Verjoos is on the hull the best off of any of the lot. As I told
ye, he made money on top of what the old man left him, an' he married money. The fam'ly--some
on 'em--comes here in the summer, an' he's here part o' the time gen'ally, but the women folks
won't stay here winters, an' the house is left in care of Alf's sister who never got married.
He don't care a hill o' white beans fer anything in Homeville but the old place, and he don't
cal'late to have nobody on his grass, not if he knows it. Him an' me are on putty friendly
terms, but the fact is," said David, in a semi-confidential tone, "he's about an even combine
of pykery an' viniger, an' about as pop'lar in gen'ral 'round here as a skunk in a hen-house;
but Mis' Verjoos is putty well liked; an' one o' the girls, Claricy is her name, is a good
deal of a fav'rit. Juliet, the other one, don't mix with the village folks much, an' sometimes
don't come with the fam'ly at all. She favors her father," remarked the historian.

"Inherits his popularity, I conclude," remarked John, smiling.

"She does favor him to some extent in that respect," was the reply; "an' she's dark complected
like him, but she's a mighty han'some girl, notwithstandin'. Both on 'em is han'some girls,"
observed Mr. Harum, "an' great fer hosses, an' that's the way I got 'quainted with 'em. They're
all fer ridin' hossback when they're up here. Did you ever ride a hoss?" he asked.

"Oh, yes," said John, "I have ridden a good deal one time and another."

"Never c'd see the sense on't," declared David. "I c'n imagine gettin' on to a hoss's back
when 't was either that or walkin', but to do it fer the fun o' the thing 's more 'n I c'n
understand. There you be," he continued, "stuck up four five feet up in the air like a clo'espin,
havin' your backbone chucked up into your skull, an' takin' the skin off in spots an' places,
expectin' ev'ry next minute the critter'll git out f'm under ye--no, sir," he protested, "if
it come to be that it was either to ride a hossback fer the fun o' the thing or have somebody
kick me, an' kick me hard, I'd say, 'Kick away.' It comes to the same thing fur 's enjoyment
goes, and it's a dum sight safer."

John laughed outright, while David leaned forward with his hands on his knees, looking at him
with a broad though somewhat doubtful smile.

"That being your feeling," remarked John, "I should think saddle horses would be rather out
of your line. Was it a saddle horse that the Misses Verjoos were interested in?"

"Wa'al, I didn't buy him fer that," replied David, "an' in fact when the feller that sold him
to me told me he'd ben rode, I allowed that ought to knock twenty dollars off 'n the price,
but I did have such a hoss, an', outside o' that, he was a nice piece of hoss flesh. I was
up to the barn one mornin', mebbe four years ago," he continued, "when in drove the Verjoos
carriage with one of the girls, the oldest one, inside, an' the yeller-haired one on a hossback.
'Good mornin'. You're Mr. Harum, ain't you?' she says. 'Good mornin',' I says, 'Harum's the
name 't I use when I appear in public. You're Miss Verjoos, I reckon,' I says.

"She laughed a little, an' says, motionin' with her head to'ds the carriage, 'My sister is
Miss Verjoos. I'm Miss Claricy.' I took off my cap, an' the other girl jest bowed her head
a little.

"'I heard you had a hoss 't I could ride,' says the one on hossback.

"'Wa'al,' I says, lookin' at her hoss, an' he was a good one," remarked David, "'fer a saddle
hoss, I shouldn't think you was entirely out o' hosses long's you got that one.' 'Oh,' she
says, this is my sister's hoss. Mine has hurt his leg so badly that I am 'fraid I sha'n't be
able to ride him this summer.' 'Wa'al,' I says, 'I've got a hoss that's ben rode, so I was
told, but I don't know of my own knowin'.'

"'Don't you ride?' she says. 'Hossback?' I says. 'Why, of course,' she says. 'No, ma'am,' I
says, 'not when I c'n raise the money to pay my fine' She looked kind o' puzzled at that,"
remarked David, "but I see the other girl look at her an' give a kind of quiet laugh."

"'Can I see him?' says Miss Claricy. 'Cert'nly,' I says, an' went an' brought him out. 'Oh!'
she says to her sister, 'ain't he a beauty? C'n I try him?' she says to me. 'Wa'al,' I says,
'I guess I c'n resk it if you can, but I didn't buy him fer a saddle hoss, an' if I'm to own
him fer any len'th of time I'd ruther he'd fergit the saddle bus'nis, an' in any case,' I says,
'I wouldn't like him to git a sore back, an' then agin,' I says, 'I hain't got no saddle.'

"'Wa'al,' she says, givin' her head a toss, 'if I couldn't sit straight I'd never ride agin.
I never made a hoss's back sore in my life,' she says. 'We c'n change the saddle,' she says,
an' off she jumps, an', scat my ----!" exclaimed David, "the way she knowed about gettin' that
saddle fixed, pads, straps, girt's, an' the hull bus'nis, an' put up her foot fer me to give
her a lift, an' wheeled that hoss an' went out o' the yard a-kitin', was as slick a piece o'
hoss bus'nis as ever I see. It took fust money, that did," said Mr. Harum with a confirmatory
shake of the head. "Wa'al," he resumed, "in about a few minutes back she come, lickity-cut,
an' pulled up in front of me. 'C'n you send my sister's hoss home?' she says, 'an' then I sha'n't
have to change agin. I'll stay on my hoss,' she says, laughin', an' then agin laughin' fit
to kill, fer I stood there with my mouth open clear to my back teeth, not bein' used to doin'
bus'nis 'ith quite so much neatniss an' dispatch, as the sayin' is.

"'Oh, it's all right,' she says. 'Poppa came home last night an' I'll have him see you this
afternoon or to-morro'.' 'But mebbe he 'n I won't agree about the price,' I says. 'Yes, you
will,' she says, 'an' if you don't I won't make his back sore'--an' off they went, an' left
me standin' there like a stick in the mud. I've bought an' sold hosses to some extent fer a
consid'able number o' years," said Mr. Harum reflectively, "but that partic'ler transaction's
got a peg all to itself."

John laughed and asked, "How did it come out? I mean, what sort of an interview did you have
with the young woman's father, the popular Mr. Verjoos?"

"Oh," said David, "he druv up to the office the next mornin', 'bout ten o'clock, an' come into
the back room here, an' after we'd passed the time o' day, he says, clearin' his throat in
a way he's got, 'He-uh, he-uh!' he says, 'my daughter tells me that she run off with a hoss
of yours yestidy in rather a summery manner, an--he-uh-uh--I have come to see you about payin'
fer him. What is the price?' he says.

"'Wa'al,' I says, more 'n anythin' to see what he'd say, 'what would you say he was wuth?'
An' with that he kind o' stiffened a little stiffer 'n he was before, if it could be.

"'Really,' he says, 'he-uh-uh, I haven't any idea. I haven't seen the animal, an' I should
not consider myself qual'fied to give an opinion upon his value if I had, but,' he says, 'I
don't know that that makes any material diff'rence, however, because I am quite--he-uh, he-uh--in
your hands--he-uh!--within limits--he-uh-uh!--within limits,' he says. That kind o' riled me,"
remarked David. "I see in a minute what was passin' in his mind. 'Wa'al,' I says, 'Mr. Verjoos,
I guess the fact o' the matter is 't I'm about as much in the mud as you be in the mire--your
daughter's got my hoss,' I says. 'Now you ain't dealin' with a hoss jockey,' I says, 'though
I don't deny that I buy an' sell hosses, an' once in a while make money at it. You're dealin'
with David Harum, Banker, an' I consider 't I'm dealin' with a lady, or the father of one on
her account,' I says.

"'He-uh, he-uh! I meant no offense, sir,' he says.

"'None bein' meant, none will be took,' I says. 'Now,' I says,' I was offered one-seventy-five
fer that hoss day before yestidy, an' wouldn't take it. I can't sell him fer that,' I says.

"'He-uh, uh! cert'nly not,' he says.

"'Wait a minit,' I says. 'I can't sell him fer that because I said I wouldn't; but if you feel
like drawin' your check fer one-seventy-six,' I says, 'we'll call it a deal,'" The speaker
paused with a chuckle.

"Well?" said John.

"Wa'al," said David, "he, he, he, he! That clean took the wind out of him, an' he got redder
'n a beet. 'He-uh-uh-uh-huh! really,' he says, 'I couldn't think of offerin' you less than
two hunderd.'

"'All right,' I says, 'I'll send up fer the hoss. One-seventy-six is my price, no more an'
no less,' an' I got up out o' my chair."

"And what did he say then?" asked John.

"Wa'al," replied Mr. Harum, "he settled his neck down into his collar an' necktie an' cleared
his throat a few times, an' says, 'You put me in ruther an embarrassin' position, Mr. Harum.
My daughter has set her heart on the hoss, an'--he-uh-uh-uh!'--with a kind of a smile like
a wrinkle in a boot, 'I can't very well tell her that I wouldn't buy him because you wouldn't
accept a higher offer than your own price. I--I think I must accede to your proposition, an'--he-uh-uh--accept
the favor,' he says, draggin' the words out by the roots.

"'No favor at all,' I says, 'not a bit on't, not a bit on't. It was the cleanest an' slickist
deal I ever had,' I says, 'an' I've had a good many. That girl o' your'n,' I says, 'if you
don't mind my sayin' it, comes as near bein' a full team an' a cross dog under the wagin as
you c'n git; an' you c'n tell her if you think fit,' I says, 'that if she ever wants anythin'
more out o' my barn I'll throw off twenty-four dollars ev'ry time, if she'll only do her own
buyin'.'

"Wa'al," said Mr. Harum, "I didn't know but what he'd gag a little at that, but he didn't seem
to, an' when he went off after givin' me his check, he put out his hand an' shook hands, a
thing he never done before."

"That was really very amusing," was John's comment.

"'T wa'n't a bad day's work either," observed Mr. Harum. "I've sold the crowd a good many hosses
since then, an' I've laughed a thousan' times over that pertic'ler trade. Me 'n Miss Claricy,"
he added, "has alwus ben good friends sence that time--an' she 'n Polly are reg'lar neetups.
She never sees me in the street but what it's 'How dee do, Mr. H-a-rum?' An' I'll say, 'Ain't
that ole hoss wore out yet?' or, 'When you comin' 'round to run off with another hoss?' I'll say."

At this point David got out of his chair, yawned, and walked over to the window.

"Did you ever in all your born days," he said, "see such dum'd weather? Jest look out there--no
sleighin', no wheelin', an' a barn full wantin' exercise. Wa'al, I guess I'll be moseyin' along."
And out he went.

CHAPTER XXX.

If John Lenox had kept a diary for the first year of his life in Homeville most of its pages
would have been blank.

The daily routine of the office (he had no assistant but the callow Hopkins) was more exacting
than laborious, but it kept him confined seven hours in the twenty-four. Still, there was time
in the lengthened days as the year advanced for walking, rowing, and riding or driving about
the picturesque country which surrounds Homeville. He and Mr. Harum often drove together after
the bank closed, or after "tea," and it was a pleasure in itself to observe David's dexterous
handling of his horses, and his content and satisfaction in the enjoyment of his favorite pastime.
In pursuit of business he "jogged 'round," as he said, behind the faithful Jinny, but when
on pleasure bent, a pair of satin-coated trotters drew him in the latest and "slickest" model
of top-buggies.

"Of course," he said, "I'd ruther ride all alone than not to ride at all, but the's twice as
much fun in't when you've got somebody along. I ain't much of a talker, unless I happen to
git started" (at which assertion John repressed a smile), "but once in a while I like to have
somebody to say somethin' to. You like to come along, don't ye?"

"Very much indeed."

"I used to git Polly to come once in a while," said David, "but it wa'n't no pleasure to her.
She hadn't never ben used to hosses an' alwus set on the edge of the seat ready to jump, an'
if one o' the critters capered a little she'd want to git right out then an' there. I reckon
she never went out but what she thanked mercy when she struck the hoss block to git back with
hull bones."

"I shouldn't have thought that she would have been nervous with the reins in your hands," said
John.

"Wa'al," replied David, "the last time she come along somethin' give the team a little scare
an' she reached over an' made a grab at the lines. That," he remarked with a grin, "was quite
a good while ago. I says to her when we got home, 'I guess after this you'd better take your
airin's on a stun-boat. You won't be so liable to git run away with an' throwed out,' I says."

John laughed a little, but made no comment.

"After all," said David, "I dunno 's I blamed her fer bein' skittish, but I couldn't have her
grabbin' the lines. It's curi's," he reflected, "I didn't used to mind what I rode behind,
nor who done the drivin', but I'd have to admit that as I git older I prefer to do it myself,
I ride ev'ry once in a while with fellers that c'n drive as well, an' mebbe better, 'n I can,
an' I know it, but if anythin' turns up, or looks like it, I can't help wishin' 't I had holt
o' the lines myself."

The two passed a good many hours together thus beguiling the time. Whatever David's other merits
as a companion, he was not exacting of response when engaged in conversation, and rarely made
any demands upon his auditor.

       *       *       *       *       *

During that first year John made few additions to his social acquaintance, and if in the summer
the sight of a gay party of young people caused some stirrings in his breast, they were not
strong enough to induce him to make any attempts toward the acquaintance which he might have
formed. He was often conscious of glances of curiosity directed toward himself, and Mr. Euston
was asked a good many questions about the latest addition to his congregation.

Yes, he had called upon Mr. Lenox and his call had been returned. In fact, they had had several
visits together--had met out walking once and had gone on in company. Was Mr. Lenox "nice"?
Yes, he had made a pleasant impression upon Mr. Euston, and seemed to be a person of intelligence
and good breeding--very gentlemanlike. Why did not people know him? Well, Mr. Euston had made
some proffers to that end, but Mr. Lenox had merely expressed his thanks. No, Mr. Euston did
not know how he happened to be in Homeville and employed by that queer old Mr. Harum, and living
with him and his funny old sister; Mr. Lenox had not confided in him at all, and though very
civil and pleasant, did not appear to wish to be communicative.

So our friend did not make his entrance that season into the drawing or dining rooms of any
of what David called the "nabobs'" houses. By the middle or latter part of October Homeville
was deserted of its visitors and as many of that class of its regular population as had the
means to go with and a place to go to.

It was under somewhat different auspices that John entered upon the second winter of his sojourn.
It has been made plain that his relations with his employer and the kind and lovable Polly
were on a satisfactory and permanent footing.

"I'm dum'd," said David to Dick Larrabee, "if it hain't got putty near to the p'int when if
I want to git anythin' out o' the common run out o' Polly, I'll have to ask John to fix it
fer me. She's like a cow with a calf," he declared.

"David sets all the store in the world by him," stated Mrs. Bixbee to a friend, "though he
don't jest let on to--not in so many words. He's got a kind of a notion that his little boy,
if he'd lived, would 'a' ben like him some ways. I never seen the child," she added, with an
expression which made her visitor smile, "but as near 's I c'n make out f'm Dave's tell, he
must 'a' ben red-headed. Didn't you know 't he'd ever ben married? Wa'al, he was fer a few
years, though it's the one thing--wa'al, I don't mean exac'ly that--it's one o' the things
he don't have much to say about. But once in a while he'll talk about the boy, what he'd be
now if he'd lived, an' so on; an' he's the greatest hand fer childern--everlastin'ly pickin'
on 'em up when he's ridin' and such as that--an' I seen him once when we was travelin' on the
cars go an' take a squawlin' baby away f'm it's mother, who looked ready to drop, an' lay it
across that big chest of his, an' the little thing never gave a whimper after he got it into
his arms--jest went right off to sleep. No," said Mrs. Bixbee, "I never had no childern, an'
I don't know but what I was glad of it at the time; Jim Bixbee was about as much baby as I
thought I could manage, but now--"

There was some reason for not concluding the sentence, and so we do not know what was in her mind.

CHAPTER XXXI.

