A COMPILATION OF THE MESSAGES AND PAPERS OF THE PRESIDENTS

BY JAMES D. RICHARDSON

Rutherford B. Hayes

March 4, 1877, to March 4, 1881

Rutherford B. Hayes

Rutherford B. Hayes was born in Delaware: Ohio, October 4, 1822. His father had died in July,
1822, leaving his mother in modest circumstances. He attended the common schools, and began
early the study of Latin and Greek with Judge Sherman Finch, of Delaware. Prepared for college
at an academy at Norwalk, Ohio, and at a school in Middletown, Conn. In the autumn of 1838
entered Kenyon College, at Gambier, Ohio. Excelled in logic, mental and moral philosophy, and
mathematics, and also made his mark as a debater in the literary societies. On his graduation,
in August, 1842, was awarded the valedictory oration, with which he won much praise. Soon afterwards
began the study of law in the office of Thomas Sparrow, at Columbus, Ohio, and then attended
a course of law lectures at Harvard University, entering the law school August 22, 1843, and
finishing his studies there in January, 1845. As a law student he had the advantage of friendly
intercourse with Judge Story and Professor Greenleaf, and also attended the lectures of Longfellow
on literature and of Agassiz on natural science, pursuing at the same time the study of French
and German. In May, 1845, was admitted to practice in the courts of Ohio as an attorney and
counselor at law. Established himself first at Lower Sandusky (now Fremont), where in April,
1846, he formed a law partnership with Ralph P. Buckland, then a Member of Congress. In the
winter of 1849-50 established himself at Cincinnati. His practice at first being light, continued
his studies in law and literature, and also became identified with various literary societies,
among them the literary club of Cincinnati, where he met Salmon P. Chase, Thomas Ewing, Thomas
Corwin, Stanley Matthews, Moncure D. Conway, Manning F. Force, and others of note. December
30, 1852, married Miss Lucy Ware Webb, daughter of Dr. James Webb, a physician of Chillicothe,
Ohio. In January, 1854, formed a law partnership with H.W. Corwine and William K. Rogers. In
1856 was nominated for the office of common pleas judge, but declined. Portions of the paper-hangings
were stripped off, and small slivers ripped up from the floors. It struck the frames of looking-glasses,
cracking off small pieces of the wood, but only in one instance breaking the mirror. It cut a
velvet band by which one was hung; and it was found on the floor, the mirror downward and unbroken,
as if it had been carefully laid there. In the attic, fragments of the old gnarled and knotted
rafters, of different lengths,-- from four or five feet to mere chips,-- were scattered in quantities
upon the floor, and grooves made lengthwise along posts and implements of household use. Large cracks
were left in the wooden casings of some of the doors and windows. A family of eight persons
were seated around the dinner-table. All were more or less affected. They were deprived for
the time of the use of their feet and ancles; were stunned, paralyzed, and rendered insensible
for a few moments by the shock; and felt the effects, some of them, for a day or two in their
lower limbs. In front of each person at the table was a tall goblet, which had just been filled with
water. As soon as they were able to notice, they found the water dripping on all sides to the floor,
the whole table-cloth wet, seven of the goblets entirely empty, the eighth half emptied, and
not one of them thrown over, or in the slightest manner displaced. The whole house was filled
with what seemed, to the sight and smell, to be smoke; but no combustion, scorch, discoloration,
or the least indication of heat, could be found on any of the objects struck. The building, in its
thirteen rooms, from the garret to the ground-floor, had been flooded with lightning; but, with
all its inmates, escaped without considerable or permanent injury.]
In the course of a mysterious providence, this venerable mansion was
destined to be rendered memorable by its connection with the darkest
scene in our annals.

As that scene cannot otherwise be comprehended in all the elements that led to it, it is necessary to
give the intermediate history of the Townsend Bishop farm and mansion. In 1641, Bishop sold it to Henry
Chickering, who seems to have been residing for some time in Salem, and to whom, in January, 1640, a
grant of land had been made by the town. He continued to own it until the 4th of October, 1648;
although he does not appear to have resided on the farm long, as he soon removed to Dedham, from
which place he was deputy to the General Court in 1642, and several years afterwards. He sold
the farm at the above-mentioned date to Governor Endicott for one hundred and sixty pounds. In
1653, John Endicott, Jr., the eldest son of the Governor, married Elizabeth, daughter of Jeremiah Houchins,
an eminent citizen of Boston, who had before resided in Hingham, which place he represented as deputy
for six years. The name was pronounced "Houkins," and so perhaps was finally spelled "Hawkins." By agreement,
or "articles of marriage contract," Endicott bestowed the farm upon his son. "Present possession"
was given. How long, or how much of the time, the young couple lived on the estate, is not known.
Their principal residence was in Boston. The General Court, in 1660, granted John Endicott, Jr., four hundred
acres of land on the eastern side of the upper part of Merrimac River. After the purchase of the farm
from Chickering, the Endicott property covered nearly a thousand acres in one tract, extending from
the arms of the sea to the centre of the present village of Tapleyville. On the 10th of May,
1662, the Governor executed a deed, carrying out the engagements of the marriage contract, giving to his
son John, his heirs, and assigns for ever, the Bishop farm. Governor Endicott died in 1665.
A will was found signed and sealed by him, dated May 2, 1659, in which, referring to the marriage
gift to John, he bequeathes the aforesaid farm to "him and his heirs," but does not add, "and assigns."
Another item of the will is, "The land I have bequeathed to my two sons, in one place or another,
my will is that the longest liver of them shall enjoy the whole, except the Lord send them children
to inherit it after them." Unfortunately, there were no witnesses to the will. It was not allowed
in Probate. The matter was carried up to the General Court; and it was decided Aug. 1, 1665,
that the court "do not approve of the instrument produced in court to be the last will and testament
of the late John Endicott, Esq., governor." In October of the same year, John Endicott, Jr., petitioned
the General Court to act on the settlement of his father's estate; and the court directs administration
to be granted to "Mrs. Elizabeth Endicott and her two sons, John and Zerubabel," and that they
bring in an inventory to the next county court at Boston, and to dispose of the same as the
law directs. The result of the
election became the subject of acrimonious dispute. Each party charged fraud upon the other,
and both parties claimed to have carried the States of Louisiana, South Carolina, and Florida.
To avoid a deadlock, which might have happened if the canvass of the electoral votes had been
left to the two Houses of Congress (the Senate having a Republican and the House of Representatives
a Democratic majority), an act, advocated by members of both parties, was passed to refer all
contested cases to a commission composed of five Senators, five Representatives, and five Justices
of the Supreme Court, the decision of this commission to be final unless set aside by a concurrent
vote of the two Houses of Congress. The commission, refusing to go behind the certificates
of the governors, decided in each contested case by a vote of 8 to 7 in favor of the Republican
electors, beginning with Florida on February 7, and on March 2 Mr. Hayes was declared duly
elected President of the United States. Was inaugurated March 5, 1877. At the expiration of
his term returned to his home at Fremont, Ohio. Was the recipient of various distinctions.
The degree of LL.D. was conferred upon him by Kenyon College, Harvard University, Yale College,
and Johns Hopkins University. Was made senior vice-commander of the Military Order of the Loyal
Legion, commander of the Ohio commandery of the same order, first president of the Society
of the Army of West Virginia, and president of the Twenty-third Regiment Ohio Volunteers Association.
Was president of the trustees of the John F. Slater education fund; one of the trustees of
the Peabody education fund; president of the National Prison Reform Association; an active
member of the National Conference of Corrections and Charities; a trustee of the Western Reserve
University, at Cleveland, Ohio, of the Wesleyan University, of Delaware, Ohio, of Mount Union
College, at Alliance, Ohio, and of the Ohio State University. He died at Fremont, Ohio, January
17, 1893, and was buried there.

INAUGURAL ADDRESS.

FELLOW-CITIZENS: We have assembled to repeat the public ceremonial, begun by Washington, observed
by all my predecessors, and now a time-honored custom, which marks the commencement of a new
term of the Presidential office. Called to the duties of this great trust, I proceed, in compliance
with usage, to announce some of the leading principles, on the subjects that now chiefly engage
the public attention, by which it is my desire to be guided in the discharge of those duties.
I shall not undertake to lay down irrevocably principles or measures of administration, but
rather to speak of the motives which should animate us, and to suggest certain important ends
to be attained in accordance with our institutions and essential to the welfare of our country.

At the outset of the discussions which preceded the recent Presidential election it seemed
to me fitting that I should fully make known my sentiments in regard to several of the important
questions which then appeared to demand the consideration of the country. Following the example,
and in part adopting the language, of one of my predecessors, I wish now, when every motive
for misrepresentation has passed away, to repeat what was said before the election, trusting
that my countrymen will candidly weigh and understand it, and that they will feel assured that
the sentiments declared in accepting the nomination for the Presidency will be the standard
of my conduct in the path before me, charged, as I now am, with the grave and difficult task
of carrying them out in the practical administration of the Government so far as depends, under
the Constitution and laws, on the Chief Executive of the nation.

The permanent pacification of the country upon such principles and by such measures as will
secure the complete protection of all its citizens in the free enjoyment of all their constitutional
rights is now the one subject in our public affairs which all thoughtful and patriotic citizens
regard as of supreme importance.

Many of the calamitous effects of the tremendous revolution which has passed over the Southern
States still remain. The immeasurable benefits which will surely follow, sooner or later, the
hearty and generous acceptance of the legitimate results of that revolution have not yet been
realized. Difficult and embarrassing questions meet us at the threshold of this subject. The
people of those States are still impoverished, and the inestimable blessing of wise, honest,
and peaceful local self-government is not fully enjoyed. Whatever difference of opinion may
exist as to the cause of this condition of things, the fact is clear that in the progress of
events the time has come when such government is the imperative necessity required by all the
varied interests, public and private, of those States. But it must not be forgotten that only
a local government which recognizes and maintains inviolate the rights of all is a true self-government.

With respect to the two distinct races whose peculiar relations to each other have brought
upon us the deplorable complications and perplexities which exist in those States, it must
be a government which guards the interests of both races carefully and equally. It must be
a government which submits loyally and heartily to the Constitution and the laws--the laws
of the nation and the laws of the States themselves--accepting and obeying faithfully the whole
Constitution as it is.

Resting upon this sure and substantial foundation, the superstructure of beneficent local governments
can be built up, and not otherwise. In furtherance of such obedience to the letter and the
spirit of the Constitution, and in behalf of all that its attainment implies, all so-called
party interests lose their apparent importance, and party lines may well be permitted to fade
into insignificance. The question we have to consider for the immediate welfare of those States
of the Union is the question of government or no government; of social order and all the peaceful
industries and the happiness that belong to it, or a return to barbarism. It is a question
in which every citizen of the nation is deeply interested, and with respect to which we ought
not to be, in a partisan sense, either Republicans or Democrats, but fellow-citizens and fellow-men,
to whom the interests of a common country and a common humanity are dear.

The sweeping revolution of the entire labor system of a large portion of our country and the
advance of 4,000,000 people from a condition of servitude to that of citizenship, upon an equal
footing with their former masters, could not occur without presenting problems of the gravest
moment, to be dealt with by the emancipated race, by their former masters, and by the General
Government, the author of the act of emancipation. That it was a wise, just, and providential
act, fraught with good for all concerned, is now generally conceded throughout the country.
That a moral obligation rests upon the National Government to employ its constitutional power
and influence to establish the rights of the people it has emancipated, and to protect them
in the enjoyment of those rights when they are infringed or assailed, is also generally admitted.

The evils which afflict the Southern States can only be removed or remedied by the united and
harmonious efforts of both races, actuated by motives of mutual sympathy and regard; and while
in duty bound and fully determined to protect the rights of all by every constitutional means
at the disposal of my Administration, I am sincerely anxious to use every legitimate influence
in favor of honest and efficient local self-government as the true resource of those States
for the promotion of the contentment and prosperity of their citizens. In the effort I shall
make to accomplish this purpose I ask the cordial cooperation of all who cherish an interest
in the welfare of the country, trusting that party ties and the prejudice of race will be freely
surrendered in behalf of the great purpose to be accomplished. In the important work of restoring
the South it is not the political situation alone that merits attention. The material development
of that section of the country has been arrested by the social and political revolution through
which it has passed, and now needs and deserves the considerate care of the National Government
within the just limits prescribed by the Constitution and wise public economy.

But at the basis of all prosperity, for that as well as for every other part of the country,
lies the improvement of the intellectual and moral condition of the people. Universal suffrage
should rest upon universal education. To this end, liberal and permanent provision should be
made for the support of free schools by the State governments, and, if need be, supplemented
by legitimate aid from national authority.

Let me assure my countrymen of the Southern States that it is my earnest desire to regard and
promote their truest interests--the interests of the white and of the colored people both and
equally--and to put forth my best efforts in behalf of a civil policy which will forever wipe
out in our political affairs the color line and the distinction between North and South, to
the end that we may have not merely a united North or a united South, but a united country. 

I have dwelt at this great length on the Narragansett campaign and fight, partly because the details
have not been kept as familiar to the memory of the people as they deserve, but chiefly because
they demonstrate the military genius of the community with whose character our subject requires
us to be fully acquainted. The enthusiasm of the troops, when Winslow gave the order for the assault,
was so great, that they rushed over the swamp with an eagerness that could not be restrained, struggling
as in a race to see who could first reach the log that led into the fiery mouth of the fort.
A Salem villager, John Raymond, was the winner. He passed through, survived the ordeal, and came
unharmed out of the terrible fight. He was twenty-seven years of age. He signed his name to a petition
to the General Court, in 1685, as having gone in the expedition from Salem Village, and as then living
there. Some years afterwards, he removed to Middleborough, joined the church in that place in
1722, and died in 1725.

The fact that his last years were spent there has led to the supposition that he went from Middleborough
to the Narragansett fight; but no men were drafted into that army from Middleborough. It was
not a town at the time, but was organized some years afterwards. It had no inhabitants then.
Philip had destroyed what few houses had been there, and slaughtered
or dispersed their occupants.

Thus
far our attention has been directed to that portion of the population of Salem Village drawn
there by the original policy of the company in London to attract persons of superior social
position, wealth, and education to take up tracts of land, and lead
the way into the interior.

It operated to give a high character to the early agriculture of the country, and facilitate
the settling of the lands. Without taking into view the means they had to make the necessary
outlays in constructing bridges and roads, and introducing costly implements of husbandry and
tasteful improvements, but looking solely at the social, intellectual,
and moral influence they exerted, it must be acknowledged that the
benefit derived from them was incalculable.

They gave a powerful impulse to the farming interest, and introduced a high tone to the spirit of the
community. They were early on the ground, and remained more or less through the period of the first
generation.

Their impress was long seen in the manners and character of the people. There was surely a goodly
proportion of such men among the first settlers of this neighborhood.

I come now to another class drawn along with and after the preceding,-- the permanent, substantial
yeomanry with no capital but their sturdy industry, doing hard work
with their strong arms, and striking the roots of the settlement down
deep into the soil by mixing their own labor with it.

A glance at the map will be useful, at this point, showing the general direction by which the farming
population advanced to the interior. All between the North and Cow House Rivers was, as now,
called North Fields, and is still for the most part a farming territory. All north of Cow House
River, westwardly to Reading and eastwardly to the sea, was originally known as the "Farms" or
"Salem Farms." When the First Beverly Parish was set off in 1667,
it took from the "Farms" all east of Bass River.

As Topsfield and other townships were established, they were more or less encroached upon. The "Farmers"
as they were called, although unorganized, regarded themselves as one community, having a common
interest. The tide of settlement flowed up the rivers and brooks,
sought out the meadows, and was drawn into the valleys among the
hills.

John Porter, called "Farmer Porter," came with his sons from Hingham,
and bought up lands to the north of Duck or Crane River.

His family before long held among them more land, it is probable, than any other. He served
many years as deputy in the General Court, first from Hingham and then from Salem. He is spoken
of in the colonial records of Massachusetts as "of good repute for piety, integrity, and estate."
The Barneys, Leaches, and others went eastwardly towards Bass River.
The Putnams followed up Beaver Brook to Beaver Dam, and spread out
towards the north and west; while Richard Hutchinson turned southerly
to the interval between Whipple and Hathorne Hills, bought the Stileman
grant, and cleared the beautiful meadows where the old village meeting-house
afterwards stood.

He was a vigorous and intelligent agriculturist, and a man of character. He died in 1681, at eighty
years of age, leaving a large and well-improved estate. His will has this item: I give "five acres of land
to Black Peter, my servant." He had given fine farms to his children severally, many years before his death.
His second wife, who survived him, had no children.

He had come by her into possession of a valuable addition to his estate. After distributing his property,
and providing legacies for children and grandchildren, his will left it to the option of his widow
to spend the residue of her days either in the family of his son Joseph, or elsewhere; if she
should prefer to live elsewhere, then she should receive back, in her own right, all the property
she had originally owned; if she continued to live to her death in
Joseph's family, then her property was to go to him and his heirs.

This, I think, shows that he was as sagacious as he was just. Richard Ingersoll came from Bedfordshire
in England in 1629, bringing letters of recommendation from Matthew Cradock to Governor Endicott.
After living awhile in town, a tract of land of eighty acres was granted to him, on the east side
of Wooleston River, opposite the site of Danversport, at a place called,
after him, Ingersoll's Point. He there proceeded to clear and break
ground, plant corn, fence in his land, and make other improvements.

He also carried on a fishery.

Subsequently he leased the Townsend Bishop farm, where he lived several years. He died in 1644.
Not long before his death, he purchased, jointly with his son-in-law
Haynes, the Weston grant.

His half of it he bequeathed to his son Nathaniel. He was evidently a man of real dignity and worth, enjoying
the friendship of the best men of his day. Governor Endicott and Townsend Bishop were with him in
his last sickness, and witnesses to his will. His widow married John Knight of Newbury. In a legal
instrument filed among the papers connected with a case of land title, dated twenty-seven years after
her first husband's death, she expresses in very striking language the tender affection and
respect with which she still cherished his memory. William Haynes married Sarah, daughter of
Richard Ingersoll, and occupied his half of the Weston grant. In company with his brother, Richard Haynes,
he had before bought of Townsend Bishop five hundred and forty acres, covering a considerable part of
the northern end of the village territory. They sold one-third part of it to Abraham Page.
Page sold to Simon Bradstreet, and John Porter bought all the three
parts from the Hayneses and Bradstreet. It long constituted a portion
of the great landed property of the Porter family.

These facts show that William Haynes was a person of means; and the manner
in which he is uniformly spoken of proves that he was regarded with
singular respect and esteem.

He died about 1650, and his son Thomas became subsequently a leading man in the village. There has
been uncertainty where William Haynes came from, or to what family of the name he belonged. Among the
papers of the Ingersoll family, it has recently been found that he
is mentioned as "brother to Lieutenant-Governor Haynes."

There seems to be no other person to whom this language can refer than John Haynes, who, after
being Governor of Massachusetts, removed to Connecticut where he was governor and deputy-governor,
in alternate years, to the day of his death. John Haynes, as Winthrop informs us, was a gentleman
of "great estate." His property in England is stated to have yielded
a thousand pounds per annum.

Dr. Palfrey says he was "a man of family as well as fortune; and
the dignified and courteous manners, which testified to the care bestowed
on his early nurture, won popularity by their graciousness, at the
same time that they diffused a refining influence by their example."

If William of the village was brother to John of Connecticut, the fact that he and his brother Richard
could make such large purchases of lands, and the remarkable respect manifested towards him,
are well accounted for. The Ingersoll family traditions and entries would seem to be the highest authority
on such a point. Job Swinnerton was a brother of John who for many years was the principal physician
in the town of Salem. He had several grants of land, and was a worthy,
peaceable, unobtrusive citizen.

He seems to have kept out of the heat of the various contentions
that occurred in the village; and, although his influence was sometimes
decisively put forth, he evidently did nothing to aggravate them.

He died April 11, 1689, over eighty-eight years of age. He had a large
family, and his descendants continue the name in the village to this
day.

Daniel Rea came originally to Plymouth, and in 1630 bought a dwelling-house,
garden, and "all the privileges thereunto belonging," in that town. In 1632
he removed to Salem, and at once became a leading man in the management
of town affairs.

He had a grant of one hundred and sixty acres, which he occupied
and cultivated till his death in 1662. He had but two children: one,
the wife of Captain Lothrop; the other, Joshua Rea, became the founder
of a large family who acted conspicuously in the affairs of the village
for several generations.

Jacob Barney was an original grantee, and for several years a deputy.
His son of the same name became a large landholder, and, on the 5th
of April, 1692, at the very moment when the witchcraft delusion was
at its height, gave two acres conveniently situated for the erection
of a schoolhouse.

  

He conveyed it to inhabitants of the neighborhood to be used for that purpose,
mentioning them severally by name.

I give the list, as it shows who were the principal people thereabouts
at the time: "Mr. Israel Porter; Sergeant John Leach; Cornet Nathaniel
Howard, Sr.; Corporal Joseph Herrick, Sr.; Benjamin Porter; Joshua
Rea, Sr.; Thomas Raymond, Sr.; Edward Bishop, secundus; John Trask,
Jr.; John Creesy; Joshua Rea, Jr.; John Rea; John Flint, Sr."

Lawrence Leach received a grant of one hundred acres; and others
of the same name and family had similar evidence that they were regarded
as valuable accessions to the population.

William Dodge and
  Richard Raymond had grants of sixty acres each; Humphrey and William
Woodbury had forty each.

The families of Leach, Raymond, Dodge, and Woodbury, still remain in
the community of which their ancestors were the founders.

John Sibley had a grant of fifty acres. Robert Goodell was a grantee, and became
a large landholder.

The descendants of
  the two last-named
    persons are very numerous, and have maintained the respectability
of their family names.

They are each, at this day, represented by gentlemen whose enthusiastic
interest in our antiquities is proved by their invaluable labors
and acquisitions in the interesting departments of genealogy and local
history,-- John L. Sibley, Librarian of Harvard University; and Abner
C. Goodell, Register of Probate for the County of Essex.

Besides Townsend Bishop, there were two other persons of that name among
the original inhabitants of Salem. They do not appear to have been related
to him or to each other.

Richard Bishop, whose wife Dulcibell had died Aug. 6, 1658, married
the widow Galt, July 22, 1660.

He died Dec. 30, 1674. Edward Bishop was in Salem in 1639, and became
a member of the church in 1645. In 1660 he was one of the constables
of Salem, an original member of the Beverly Church in 1667, and died
in January, 1695.

He was an early settler
  on the Farms; his lands were on both sides of Bass River, the parcels on
the west side being above and below the Ipswich road.

His own residence was on the Beverly side; and he was not usually connected with the concerns of
the village. His name appears but once in the witchcraft proceedings, and then in favor of an accused
person. Edward Bishop, commonly called "the sawyer," from the tenor of conveyances of land, dates, and
other evidences, appears to have been a son of the preceding. In his earlier life, he was somewhat
notable for irregularities and aberrations of conduct. With his wife Hannah, he was fined by the
local court, in 1653, for depredating upon the premises of his neighbors. During the subsequent period of
his history, he bore the character of an industrious and reputable person. At some time previous
to 1680, he married Bridget, widow of Thomas Oliver. On the 9th of March, 1693, he married
Elizabeth Cash.

He lived originally in Beverly; afterwards, at different times, on the
land belonging to his father in Salem Village,-- the estate he occupied
being on both sides of the Ipswich road.

His last years were passed in the town of Salem. He died in 1705. His daughter
Hannah, born in 1646, became the wife of Captain William Raymond, one
of the founders of the numerous family of that name. Edward Bishop,
son of the preceding, called, for distinction, "husbandman," was born
in 1648. He married Sarah, daughter of William Wilds, of Ipswich.

  
  He was a respectable person, and lived in the village on an estate
also occupied by "the sawyer."

His house was west of the avenue leading to Cherry Hill. In 1703 he removed to Rehoboth. Edward
Bishop, the eldest of his sons, married Susanna, daughter of John
Putnam, and in 1713 removed to that part of Ipswich now Hamilton.

Prior to 1695, these four Edward Bishops were all living; and the youngest
had a wife and children.

All will be found connected with our story, the second and third
prominently. The fourth owed his safety, perhaps, to the influential
connections of his wife.

The first notice we have of Bray Wilkins is in the Massachusetts colonial
records, Sept. 6, 1638, when he was authorized to set up a house
and keep a ferry at Neponset River, and have "a penny a person."

On the 5th of November, 1639, the General Court accepted a report made by William Hathorne and
Richard Davenport, commissioners appointed for the purpose, and, in accordance
therewith, laid out a farm for Richard Bellingham, who had been deputy-governor,
was then an assistant, and afterwards governor, "on the head of Salem,
to the north-west of the town; there being in it a hill, and an Indian
plantation, and a pond."

  
  
  This nice little farm included seven hundred acres, and "about
  one hundred or one hundred and fifty acres of meadow" beside.
  The next thing we hear about the matter is a petition to the
  General Court, May 22, 1661, of "Bray Wilkins and John Gingle, humbly
  desiring that the farm called by the name of Will's Hill, which
  this Court granted to the worshipful Richard Bellingham, Esq.,
  and they purchased of him, may be laid to, and appointed to belong
to, Salem; being nigh its lands, and the petitioners of its society."

The Court granted the request. It seems that, about a year before, on the 9th of March, "Bray Wilkins,
husbandman, and John Gingle, tailor, both of Lynn," had bought the Bellingham farm for two
hundred and fifty pounds, of which they paid at the time twenty-five pounds, and mortgaged
it back for the residue. The twenty-five pounds was paid as follows: twenty-four pounds in a
ton of bar-iron, and one pound in money. Wilkins had, some time before,
removed from Neponset, and perhaps had been working in one of the
iron-manufactories then in operation at Lynn.

When the balance of his wages over his expenses enabled him, with the aid of Gingle, to raise a ton of iron
and scrape together twenty shillings, they entered upon their bold
undertaking.

He had not a dollar in his pocket; but he had what was better than
dollars,-- industrious habits, a resolute will, a strong constitution,
an iron frame, and six stout sons.

  After a while, he took into the work, in addition to his own
  effective family force, two trusty kinsmen, Aaron Way and William
Ireland, conveying to them good farms out of his seven hundred acres.
  

     He enlarged his farm, from time to time, by new purchases, so as to
more than make up for what he sold to Way and Ireland.

  In 1676 the mortgage was fully discharged. He and his sons bought
  out the heirs of Gingle, and the work was done. They held, free from
  debt, in one tract, a territory about two miles in length on the
Reading line.

     Each member of the family had a house, barns, orchards, gardens, meadows,
upland, and woodland; and the homestead of the old patriarch was
in the midst of them, the enterprise of his laborious life crowned
with complete success.

The innumerable family of the name, scattered all over the country, has largely, if not wholly,
been derived from this source. Bray Wilkins, and the members of his
household in all its branches, were always on hand at parish meetings
in Salem Village.

Over a distance, as their route must have been, of five miles, they
came, in all seasons and all weathers, by the roughest roads, and, in the
earlier period, where there were no roads at all, through the woods,
fording streams, to meeting on the Lord's Day. He continued vigorous, hale,
and active to the last; and died, as he truly characterizes himself
in his will, "an ancient," Jan. 1, 1702, at the age of ninety-two. This
was the way in which the large grants made to wealthy and eminent
persons, governors, deputy-governors, and assistants, came into the
possession and under the productive labor of a yeomanry who made good
their title to the soil by the force of their characters and the strength
of their muscles.

One of the terms of Wilkins's purchase was, that, if he found and
wrought minerals on the land, he was to pay to Bellingham or his
heirs a royalty of ten pounds per annum.

Believing that the best mine to be found in land is the crops that can
be raised from it, he never tried to find any other. Bray Wilkins will
appear to have shared in the witchcraft delusion, and been very unhappily
connected with it; but he lived to behold its termination, and to participate
in the restoration of reason. The minister of the parish at the time
of his death, the Rev. Joseph Green, kept a diary which has been
preserved.

He thus speaks of the old man: "He lived to a good old age, and saw
his children's children, and their children, and peace upon our little
Israel."

It is rather curious to notice such indications as the mineral clause in
Wilkins's deed affords of the prevalent expectation, at the beginning
of settlements in this region, that valuable minerals would be found
in it.

What makes it worthy of particular inquiry is, that they were found and wrought for some time, but
that no one thinks of looking after them now. Simon Bradstreet, Daniel Dennison, and John Putnam
put up and carried on together, upon a large scale, iron-works, in 1674, at Rowley Village, now
Boxford. Samuel and Nathan Leonard were employed to construct them, and carried them on by contract.
These iron-works were long regarded as a promising enterprise and valuable investment. The
Leonards were probably of the same family that, at Raynham and the neighborhood, engaged in this
business to a great extent, and for a long period, making it a source of wealth and the foundation
of eminent families. We know that the business was carried on extensively
in Lynn, and that Governor Endicott was quite sure that he had found
copper on his Orchard Farm.

Who knows but that modern science and more searching methods of detection may yet discover the
hidden treasures of which the fathers caught a glimpse, and their enterprises be revived and
conducted with permanent energy and success? In 1669, Joseph Houlton testified, that, when he was about
twenty years of age, in 1641, he was "a servant to Richard Ingersoll," and worked on his land at Ingersoll's
Point. About the year 1652, he married Sarah, daughter of Richard Ingersoll, and widow of William
Haynes. By her he had five sons and two daughters, who lived to maturity. He gave to each of
them a farm; and their houses were in his near neighborhood. The sons were respectable and substantial
citizens, and persons of just views and amiable sentiments. The father was one of the honored heads
of the village, and lived to a good old age. He died May 30, 1705. From him, it is probable, all
of the name in this country have sprung. It will be for ever preserved in the public annals and
on the geographical face of the country. Samuel Houlton, great-grandson of the original Joseph,
was a representative of Massachusetts for ten years in the old Congress of the Confederation,
for a time presiding over its deliberations.

He was also a member of the first Congress under the Constitution, and subsequently, for a very long period,
Judge of Probate for the county of Essex. He was a true patriot and
wise legislator; enjoyed to an extraordinary degree the confidence and
love of the people; had a commanding person and a noble and venerable
aspect; and was always conspicuous by the dignity and courtesy of
his manners.

He was a physician by profession; but his whole life was spent in the public service. He was in
both branches of the Legislature of the State, also in the Executive Council. He was major
of the Essex regiment at the opening of the Revolution; was a member of the Committee of Safety,
and of every convention for the framing of the Government; and, for
more than thirty years, a judge of the Court of Common Pleas.

He died, where he was born and had his home for the greater part of his life, in Salem Village, Jan.
2, 1816, in the seventy-eighth year of his age. In 1724 a petition was presented to the Legislature,
commencing as follows: "Whereas Salem is a most ancient town of Massachusetts Province, and very
much straitened for land," the petitioners pray for a grant in the
western part of the province.

R.B. HAYES.

R.B. HAYES.

PROCLAMATION.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

A PROCLAMATION.

The completed circle of summer and winter, seedtime and harvest, has brought us to the accustomed
season at which a religious people celebrates with praise and thanksgiving the enduring mercy
of Almighty God. This devout and public confession of the constant dependence of man upon the
divine favor for all the good gifts of life and health and peace and happiness, so early in
our history made the habit of our people, finds in the survey of the past year new grounds
for its joyful and grateful manifestation.

In all the blessings which depend upon benignant seasons, this has indeed been a memorable
year. Over the wide territory of our country, with all its diversity of soil and climate and
products, the earth has yielded a bountiful return to the labor of the husbandman. The health
of the people has been blighted by no prevalent or widespread diseases. No great disasters
of shipwreck upon our coasts or to our commerce on the seas have brought loss and hardship
to merchants or mariners and clouded the happiness of the community with sympathetic sorrow.

In all that concerns our strength and peace and greatness as a nation; in all that touches
the permanence and security of our Government and the beneficent institutions on which it rests;
in all that affects the character and dispositions of our people and tests our capacity to
enjoy and uphold the equal and free condition of society, now permanent and universal throughout
the land, the experience of the last year is conspicuously marked by the protecting providence
of God and is full of promise and hope for the coming generations.

Under a sense of these infinite obligations to the Great Ruler of Times and Seasons and Events,
let us humbly ascribe it to our own faults and frailties if in any degree that perfect concord
and happiness, peace and justice, which such great mercies should diffuse through the hearts
and lives of our people do not altogether and always and everywhere prevail. Let us with one
spirit and with one voice lift up praise and thanksgiving to God for His manifold goodness
to our land, His manifest care for our nation.

R.B. HAYES.

By the President:
  WM. M. EVARTS,
    Secretary of State.

EXECUTIVE ORDER.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., November 2, 1877.

I lament the sad occasion which makes it my duty to testify the public respect for the eminent
citizen and distinguished statesman whose death yesterday at his home in Indianapolis has been
made known to the people by telegraphic announcement.

The services of Oliver P. Morton to the nation in the difficult and responsible administration
of the affairs of the State of Indiana as its governor at a critical juncture of the civil
war can never be overvalued by his countrymen. His long service in the Senate has shown his
great powers as a legislator and as a leader and chief counselor of the political party charged
with the conduct of the Government during that period.

In all things and at all times he has been able, strenuous, and faithful in the public service,
and his fame with his countrymen rests upon secure foundations.

The several Executive Departments will be closed on the day of his funeral, and appropriate
honors should be paid to the memory of the deceased statesman by the whole nation.

R.B. HAYES.

FIRST ANNUAL MESSAGE. The additional legislation recommended by the Postmaster-General for
improvements of the mail service and to protect the postal revenues from the abuses practiced
under existing laws is respectfully commended to the careful consideration of Congress.

The report of the Attorney-General contains several suggestions as to the administration of
justice, to which I invite your attention. The pressure of business in the Supreme Court and
in certain circuit courts of the United States is now such that serious delays, to the great
injury, and even oppression, of suitors, occur, and a remedy should be sought for this condition
of affairs. Whether it will be found in the plan briefly sketched in the report, of increasing
the number of judges of the circuit courts, and, by means of this addition to the judicial
force, of creating an intermediate court of errors and appeals, or whether some other mode
can be devised for obviating the difficulties which now exist, I leave to your mature consideration.

The present condition of the Indian tribes in the territory of the United States and our relations
with them are fully set forth in the reports of the Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner
of Indian Affairs. After a series of most deplorable conflicts--the successful termination
of which, while reflecting honor upon the brave soldiers who accomplished it, can not lessen
our regret at their occurrence--we are now at peace with all the Indian tribes within our borders.
To preserve that peace by a just and humane policy will be the object of my earnest endeavors.
Whatever may be said of their character and savage propensities, of the difficulties of introducing
among them the habits of civilized life, and of the obstacles they have offered to the progress
of settlement and enterprise in certain parts of the country, the Indians are certainly entitled
to our sympathy and to a conscientious respect on our part for their claims upon our sense
of justice. They were the aboriginal occupants of the land we now possess. They have been driven
from place to place. The purchase money paid to them in some cases for what they called their
own has still left them poor. In many instances, when they had settled down upon land assigned
to them by compact and begun to support themselves by their own labor, they were rudely jostled
off and thrust into the wilderness again. Many, if not most, of our Indian wars have had their
origin in broken promises and acts of injustice upon our part, and the advance of the Indians
in civilization has been slow because the treatment they received did not permit it to be faster
and more general. We can not expect them to improve and to follow our guidance unless we keep
faith with them in respecting the rights they possess, and unless, instead of depriving them
of their opportunities, we lend them a helping hand.

I cordially approve the policy regarding the management of Indian affairs outlined in the reports
of the Secretary of the Interior and of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs. The faithful performance
of our promises is the first condition of a good understanding with the Indians. I can not
too urgently recommend to Congress that prompt and liberal provision be made for the conscientious
fulfillment of all engagements entered into by the Government with the Indian tribes. To withhold
the means necessary for the performance of a promise is always false economy, and is apt to
prove disastrous in its consequences. Especial care is recommended to provide for Indians settled
on their reservations cattle and agricultural implements, to aid them in whatever efforts they
may make to support themselves, and by the establishment and maintenance of schools to bring
them under the control of civilized influences. It will be an act of justice as well as a measure
of encouragement. Earnest efforts are being made to purify the Indian service, so that every
dollar appropriated by Congress shall redound to the benefit of the Indians, as intended. Those
efforts will have my firm support. With an improved service and every possible encouragement
held out to the Indians to better their condition and to elevate themselves in the scale of
civilization, we may hope to accomplish at the same time a good work for them and for ourselves.

I invite the attention of Congress to the importance of the statements and suggestions made
by the Secretary of the Interior concerning the depredations committed on the timber lands
of the United States and the necessity for the preservation of forests. It is believed that
the measures taken in pursuance of existing laws to arrest those depredations will be entirely
successful if Congress, by an appropriation for that purpose, renders their continued enforcement
possible. The experience of other nations teaches us that a country can not be stripped of
its forests with impunity, and we shall expose ourselves to the gravest consequences unless
the wasteful and improvident manner in which the forests in the United States are destroyed
be effectually checked. I earnestly recommend that the measures suggested by the Secretary
of the Interior for the suppression of depredations on the public timber lands of the United
States, for the selling of timber from the public lands, and for the preservation of forests
be embodied in a law, and that, considering the urgent necessity of enabling the people of
certain States and Territories to purchase timber from the public lands in a legal manner,
which at present they can not do, such a law be passed without unavoidable delay. I would also
call the attention of Congress to the statements made by the Secretary of the Interior concerning
the disposition that might be made of the desert lands, not irrigable, west of the one hundredth
meridian. These lands are practically unsalable under existing laws, and the suggestion is
worthy of consideration that a system of leasehold tenure would make them a source of profit
to the United States, while at the same time legalizing the business of cattle raising which
is at present carried on upon them.

The report of the Commissioner of Agriculture contains the gratifying announcement of the extraordinary
success which has rewarded the agricultural industry of the country for the past year. With
the fair prices which obtain for the products of the soil, especially for the surplus which
our people have to export, we may confidently turn to this as the most important of all our
resources for the revival of the depressed industries of the country. The report shows our
agricultural progress during the year, and contains a statement of the work done by this Department
for the advancement of agricultural industry, upon which the prosperity of our people so largely
depends. Matters of information are included of great interest to all who seek, by the experience
of others, to improve their own methods of cultivation. The efforts of the Department to increase
the production of important articles of consumption will, it is hoped, improve the demand for
labor and advance the business of the country, and eventually result in saving some of the
many millions that are now annually paid to foreign nations for sugar and other staple products
which habitual use has made necessary in our domestic everyday life.

The board on behalf of the United States Executive Departments at the International Exhibition
of 1876 has concluded its labors. The final report of the board was transmitted to Congress
by the President near the close of the last session. As these papers are understood to contain
interesting and valuable information, and will constitute the only report emanating from the
Government on the subject of the exhibition, I invite attention to the matter and recommend
that the report be published for general information.

Congress is empowered by the Constitution with the authority of exclusive legislation over
the District of Columbia, in which the seat of Government of the nation is located. The interests
of the District, having no direct representation in Congress, are entitled to especial consideration
and care at the hands of the General Government. The capital of the United States belongs to
the nation, and it is natural that the American people should take pride in the seat of their
National Government and desire it to be an ornament to the country. Much has been done to render
it healthful, convenient, and attractive, but much remains to be done, which its permanent
inhabitants are not able and ought not to be expected to do. To impose upon them a large proportion
of the cost required for public improvements, which are in a great measure planned and executed
for the convenience of the Government and of the many thousands of visitors from all parts
of the country who temporarily reside at the capital of the nation, is an evident injustice.
Special attention is asked by the Commissioners of the District in their report, which is herewith
transmitted, to the importance of a permanent adjustment by Congress of the financial relations
between the United States and the District, involving the regular annual contribution by the
United States of its just proportion of the expenses of the District government and of the
outlay for all needed public improvements, and such measure of relief from the burden of taxation
now resting upon the people of the District as in the wisdom of Congress may be deemed just.

The report of the Commissioners shows that the affairs of the District are in a condition as
satisfactory as could be expected in view of the heavy burden of debt resting upon it and its
very limited means for necessary expenses.

The debt of the District is as follows:

  Old funded debt                                         $8,379,691.96
  3.65 bonds, guaranteed by the United States             13,743,250.00

  Total bonded debt                                       22,122,941.96

  To which should be added certain outstanding claims,
    as explained in the report of the Commissioners        1,187,204.52

  Making the total debt of the District                   23,310,146.48

The Commissioners also ask attention to the importance of the improvement of the Potomac River
and the reclamation of the marshes bordering the city of Washington, and their views upon this
subject are concurred in by the members of the board of health, whose report is also herewith
transmitted. Both the commercial and sanitary interests of the District will be greatly promoted,
I doubt not, by this improvement.

Your attention is invited to the suggestion of the Commissioners and of the board of health
for the organization of a board of charities, to have supervision and control of the disbursement
of all moneys for charitable purposes from the District treasury. I desire also to ask your
especial attention to the need of adding to the efficiency of the public schools of the District
by supplemental aid from the National Treasury. This is especially just, since so large a number
of those attending these schools are children of employees of the Government. I earnestly commend
to your care the interests of the people of the District, who are so intimately associated
with the Government establishments, and to whose enterprise the good order and attractiveness
of the capital are largely due; and I ask your attention to the request of the Commissioners
for legislation in behalf of the interests intrusted to their care. The appropriations asked
for the care of the reservations belonging to the Government within the city, by the Commissioner
of Public Buildings and Grounds, are also commended to your favorable consideration.

The report of the joint commission created by the act approved 2d of August, 1876, entitled
"An act providing for the completion of the Washington Monument," is also herewith transmitted,
with accompanying documents. The board of engineer officers detailed to examine the monument,
in compliance with the second section of the act, have reported that the foundation is insufficient.
No authority exists for making the expenditure necessary to secure its stability. I therefore
recommend that the commission be authorized to expend such portion of the sum appropriated
by the act as may be necessary for the purpose. The present unfinished condition of the monument,
begun so long ago, is a reproach to the nation. It can not be doubted that the patriotic sense
of the country will warmly respond to such prompt provision as may be made for its completion
at an early day, and I urge upon Congress the propriety and necessity of immediate legislation
for this purpose.

The wisdom of legislation upon the part of Congress, in aid of the States, for the education
of the whole people in those branches of study which are taught in the common schools of the
country is no longer a question. The intelligent judgment of the country goes still further,
regarding it as also both constitutional and expedient for the General Government to extend
to technical and higher education, such aid as is deemed essential to the general welfare and
to our due prominence among the enlightened and cultured nations of the world. The ultimate
settlement of all questions of the future, whether of administration or finance or of true
nationality of sentiment, depends upon the virtue and intelligence of the people. It is vain
to hope for the success of a free government without the means of insuring the intelligence
of those who are the source of power. No less than one-seventh of the entire voting population
of our country are yet unable to read and write.

I also earnestly commend the request of the Regents of the Smithsonian Institution that an
adequate appropriation be made for the establishment and conduct of a national museum under
their supervision.

The question of providing for the preservation and growth of the Library of Congress is also
one of national importance. As the depository of all copyright publications and records, this
library has outgrown the provisions for its accommodation; and the erection, on such site as
the judgment of Congress may approve, of a fireproof library building, to preserve the treasures
and enlarge the usefulness of this valuable collection, is recommended. I recommend also such
legislation as will render available and efficient for the purposes of instruction, so far
as is consistent with the public service, the cabinets or museums of invention, of surgery,
of education, and of agriculture, and other collections the property of the National Government.

The capital of the nation should be something more than a mere political center. We should
avail ourselves of all the opportunities which Providence has here placed at our command to
promote the general intelligence of the people and increase the conditions most favorable to
the success and perpetuity of our institutions.

R.B. HAYES.

SPECIAL MESSAGES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, December 10, 1877.

The records of the Government constitute a most valuable collection for the country, whether
we consider their pecuniary value or their historical importance; and it becomes my duty to
call your attention to the means suggested for securing these valuable archives, as well as
the buildings in which they are stored. The commissioners have performed their duties intelligently
and faithfully. Their recommendations are fully concurred in by me and commended to the favorable
consideration of Congress.

R.B. HAYES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, December 10, 1877.

R.B. HAYES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, December 13, 1877.

To the House of Representatives:

I transmit herewith a special report upon the subject of forestry by the Commissioner of Agriculture,
with the accompanying documents.

R.B. HAYES.

[A similar message was sent to the Senate.]

WASHINGTON, January 11, 1878.

To the House of Representatives:

In answer to the resolution of the House of Representatives of the 3d ultimo, requesting to
be furnished with the correspondence between the Government of Venezuela and that of the United
States had since the adjournment of the first session of the Forty-fourth Congress in relation
to the Venezuela Mixed Claims Commission, I transmit the report of the Secretary of State,
together with its accompanying documents.

R.B. HAYES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, January 14, 1878.

To the Senate of the United States:

I have received the following resolution of the Senate:

  IN EXECUTIVE SESSION, SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES,
  December 11, 1877.

  Resolved, That the President be respectfully requested
  to inform the Senate, with the view to the transaction of
  its executive business, whether in any of the instances of
  nominations hitherto sent to the Senate stated to be for
  appointment in place of officers removed such removals had
  been made at the time of sending such nominations to the
  Senate.

In reply I would respectfully inform the Senate that in the instances referred to removals
had not been made at the time the nominations were sent to the Senate. The form used for such
nominations was one found to have been in existence and heretofore used in some of the Departments,
and was intended to inform the Senate that if the nomination proposed were approved it would
operate to remove an incumbent whose name was indicated.

R.B. HAYES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, January 17, 1878.

To the Senate of the United States:

In response to the resolution of the Senate of the 13th November last calling for information
concerning the cause, numbers engaged, number of lives lost, and probable cost of the late
so-called Nez Percé War, I have the honor to submit the accompanying communication from the
General of the Army and an extract from the annual report of that officer. Upon the subject
of the cost of the Nez Percé War, I submit reports from the Quartermaster-General and the Commissary-General
of Subsistence.

R.B. HAYES.

WASHINGTON, January 18, 1878.

R.B. HAYES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, January 18, 1878.

To the Senate of the United States:

In answer to the resolution of the Senate of December 6, 1877, I inclose a report made to me
by the Attorney-General, the results of which seem to be correct, and which affords the information[8]
requested.

R.B. HAYES.

[Footnote 8: Operation of the Union Pacific Railroad and its branches.]

[A similar message was sent to the House of Representatives, in answer to a resolution of that
body of November 27, 1877.]

EXECUTIVE MANSION, January 23, 1878.

To the Senate of the United States:

In answer to the resolution of the Senate of November 16, 1877, I transmit reports[9] made
to me by the Attorney-General and the Secretary of the Navy.

R.B. HAYES.

[Footnote 9: Relating to the seizure of logs, lumber, and naval stores suspected or having
been taken from the public lands.]

EXECUTIVE MANSION, January 29, 1878.

To the Senate of the United States:

In response to a resolution of the Senate of the 10th ultimo, I transmit herewith copies of
reports[10] of the Commissioners of Indian Affairs and General Land Office, dated 9th and 21st
instant, respectively.

R.B. HAYES.

[Footnote 10: Relating to payments to the Ute Indians under the fourth article of the agreement
of September 13, 1873, and to the occupancy of lands ceded by said Indians.]

EXECUTIVE MANSION, February 4, 1878. The commission also present a copy of a report dated February
27, 1877, which they say "was mislaid and did not reach the President." These reports are respectfully
submitted for the information of Congress.

WASHINGTON, February 6, 1878.

To the Senate:

I transmit herewith, in compliance with a resolution of the Senate of the 6th of December last,
a report from the Secretary of State and its accompanying papers.[11]

R.B. HAYES.

[Footnote 11: Correspondence relative to the Franco-German War.]

EXECUTIVE MANSION, February 11, 1878.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

In compliance with the resolution of Congress entitled "Joint resolution accepting a painting[12]
tendered to Congress by Mrs. Elizabeth Thompson," approved by me on the 1st instant, I have
this day caused a copy of the resolution to be delivered to Mrs. Thompson.

R.B. HAYES.

[Footnote 12: Carpenter's painting of President Lincoln and his Cabinet at the time of his
first reading of the Proclamation of Emancipation.]

EXECUTIVE MANSION, February 20, 1878.

To the Senate of the United States:

In response to the resolution of the Senate of January 30, 1878, I transmit herewith a report,[13]
dated the 16th instant, from the Commissioner of Indian Affairs.

R.B. HAYES.

R.B. HAYES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, February 27, 1878.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit herewith, for the information of the Senate, the reply of the Commissioner of Agriculture
to a resolution of the Senate of the 20th instant, "relative to the disease prevailing among
swine," etc.

R.B. HAYES.

WASHINGTON, March 21, 1878.

To the Senate:

In answer to the resolution of the Senate of the 11th of March instant, I herewith transmit
a report from the Secretary of State, with accompanying documents.[14]

R.B. HAYES.

R.B. HAYES.

WASHINGTON, D.C., March 27, 1878.

To the Senate of the United States:

In answer to the Senate's resolution of the 14th ultimo, requesting to be furnished with a
copy of correspondence between the Government of the United States and that of China respecting
the "Ward" claims and the claim of Charles E. Hill, I herewith submit a letter from the Secretary
of State, together with its accompanying papers.

R.B. HAYES.

WASHINGTON, March 29, 1878.

To the House of Representatives:

I transmit herewith, in compliance with a resolution of the House of Representatives of the
21st ultimo, a report from the Secretary of State and its accompanying papers.[15]

R.B. HAYES.

[Footnote 15: Correspondence with Spain relative to the seizure of the steamer Virginius, etc.]

EXECUTIVE MANSION, May 2, 1878.

To the Senate of the United States:

In answer to the resolution of the Senate of April 16, 1878,1 transmit herewith reports[16]
made to me by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Attorney-General.

R.B. HAYES.

[Footnote 16: Relating to the defalcations of William R. Whitaker while collector of internal
revenue for the first district of Louisiana and while assistant treasurer of the United States
at New Orleans.]

WASHINGTON, May 10, 1878.

R.B. HAYES.

WASHINGTON, May 14, 1878.

[Footnote 17: Correspondence relative to the terms and conditions under which the Cuban insurgents
surrendered and to the policy of Spain in the government of Cuba.]

EXECUTIVE MANSION, May 17, 1878.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I herewith transmit, for your appropriate action, a communication from the Secretary of State,
on the subject of the result of the deliberations of the Fishery Commission appointed under
certain provisions of the treaty of Washington, with the accompanying documents.

Article XXII of the treaty provides that any sum of money which the commissioners may award
shall be paid by the United States Government in a gross sum within twelve months after such
award shall have been given.

The commission announced the result of its deliberations on the 23d day of November last year,
and an appropriation at the present session of Congress will be necessary to enable the Government
to make the payment provided for in the treaty.

I respectfully submit to the consideration of Congress the record of the transaction as presented
upon the papers, and recommend an appropriation of the necessary sum, with such discretion
to the executive government in regard to its payment as in the wisdom of Congress the public
interests may seem to require.

R.B. HAYES.

WASHINGTON, May 25, 1878.

R.B. HAYES.

WASHINGTON, June 11, 1878.

R.B. HAYES.

[Footnote 18: Relating to the convention of May 20, 1875, for the establishment of an international
bureau of weights and measures.]

EXECUTIVE MANSION, June 12, 1878.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

In transmitting herewith to Congress a communication from the Secretary of State on the subject
of the conference provided for in the act of February 28, 1878, entitled "An act to authorize
the coinage of the standard silver dollar and to restore its legal-tender character," I respectfully
recommend that an adequate appropriation be made for certain expenses of the conference and
of the commissioners attending the same on behalf of the United States, as suggested in the
communication of the Secretary of State.

R.B. HAYES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, June 15, 1878.

To the House of Representatives:

I have the honor to transmit herewith the report of the board for testing iron, steel, and
other metals, as requested in the resolution of the House of Representatives dated April 27, 1878.

R.B. HAYES.

WASHINGTON, June,7, 1878.

[Footnote 19: Correspondence, etc., relative to the selection of M. Maurice Delfosse as one
of the commissioners under the treaty with Great Britain of May 8, 1871, on the fisheries question.]

VETO MESSAGES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, February 28, 1878. It may easily be imagined that the subject of demonology
soon became a fashionable and prevailing topic of conversation in
the royal saloons and throughout the nation.

It served as a medium through which obsequious courtiers could convey their flattery to the ears
of their accomplished and learned sovereign. His Majesty's book was reprinted and extensively
circulated. It was of course praised and recommended in all quarters.

The parliament, actuated by a base desire to compliment the vain and superstitious king, enacted
a new and much more severe statute against witchcraft, in the very first year of his reign.
It was under this law that so many persons here and in England were deprived of their lives.
The blood of hundreds of innocent persons was thus unrighteously shed. It was a fearful price
which these servile lawgivers paid for the favor of their prince.

But this was not the only mischief brought about by courtly deference
to the prejudices of King James.

It was under his direction that our present translation of the Scriptures was made. To please
His Royal Majesty, and to strengthen the arguments in his work on demonology, the word "witch"
was used to represent expressions in the original Hebrew, that conveyed an entirely different
idea; and it was freely inserted in the headings of the chapters. [B] A person having "a familiar
spirit" was a favorite description of a witch in the king's book. The translators, forgetful of
their high and solemn function, endeavored to establish this definition by inserting it into
their version. Accordingly, they introduced it in several places; in the eleventh verse of the
eighteenth chapter of Deuteronomy, for instance, "a consulter with familiar spirits." There
is no word in the Hebrew which corresponds with "familiar." And this is the important, the essential
word in the definition. It conveys the idea of alliance, stated connection, confederacy, or compact,
which is characteristic and distinctive of a witch. The expression in the original signifies
"a consulter with spirits,"-- especially, as was the case with the "Witch of Endor," a consulter
with departed spirits. It was a shocking perversion of the word of God, for the purpose of
flattering a frail and mortal sovereign! King James lived to see and acknowledge the error of
his early opinions, and he would gladly have counteracted their bad effect; but it is easier to make
laws and translations than it is to alter and amend them.

[Footnote B: For a thorough discussion of the several Hebrew words that relate to Divination and Magic,
see Wierus de Præstigiis, L. 2, c. 1.] While the law of the land
required the capital punishment of witches, no blame ought to be attached
to judges and jurors for discharging their respective duties in carrying
it into execution.

It will not do for us to assert, that they ought to have refused, let the consequences to themselves
have been what they would, to sanction and give effect to such inhuman and
unreasonable enactments.

We cannot consistently take this ground; for there is nothing more certain than that, with their notions,
our ancestors had at least as good reasons to advance in favor of punishing witchcraft with death,
as we have for punishing any crime whatsoever in the same awful and summary manner. We appeal,
in defence of our capital punishments, to the text of Moses, "Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall
his blood be shed." The apologist of our fathers, for carrying into effect the law making witchcraft
a capital offence, tells us in reply, in the first place, that this passage is not of the nature
of a precept, but merely of an admonition; that it does not enjoin any particular method of proceeding,
but simply describes the natural consequences of cruel and contentious conduct; and that it amounts
only to this: that quarrelsome, violent, and bloodthirsty persons will be apt to meet the same
fate they bring upon others; that the duellist will be likely to fall in private combat, the
ambitious conqueror to perish, and the warlike nation to be destroyed, on the field of battle. If
this is not considered by us a sufficient and satisfactory answer, he advances to our own ground,
points to the same text where we place our defence, and puts his finger on the following plain and authoritative
precept: "Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live." Indeed we must acknowledge, that the capital
punishment of witches is as strongly supported and fortified by the Scriptures of the Old Testament--
at least, as they appear in our present version-- as the capital
punishment of any crime whatever.

If we adopt another line of argument, and say that it is necessary to punish some particular
crimes with death, in order to maintain the security of society, or hold up an impressive warning to others,
here also we find that our opponent has full as much to offer in
defence of our fathers as can be offered in our own defence.

He describes to us the tremendous and infernal power which was universally
believed by them to be possessed by a witch; a power which, as it
was not derived from a natural source, could not easily be held in check
by natural restraints: neither chains nor dungeons could bind it down or
confine it.

You might load the witch with irons, you might bury her in the lowest cell
of a feudal prison, and still it was believed that she could send
forth her imps or her spectre to ravage the fields, and blight the
meadows, and throw the elements into confusion, and torture the bodies,
and craze the minds, of any who might be the objects of her malice.

Shakspeare, in the description which he puts into the mouth of Macbeth
of the supernatural energy of witchcraft, does not surpass, if he
does justice to, the prevailing belief on the subject:-- "I conjure
you, by that which you profess, (Howe'er you came to know it) answer
me,-- Though you untie the winds, and let them fight Against the churches;
though the yesty waves Confound and swallow navigation up; Though
bladed corn be lodged, and trees blown down; Though castles topple
on their warders'heads; Though palaces and pyramids do slope Their
heads to their foundations; though the treasure Of nature's germins
tumble all together, Even till destruction sicken,-- answer me To
what I ask you."

There was indeed an almost infinite power to do mischief associated with a disposition to do it.
No human strength could strip the witch of these mighty energies
while she lived; nothing but death could destroy them.

There
was, as our ancestors considered, incontestable evidence, that she had put them forth to
the injury, loss, and perhaps death, of others. Can it be wondered at, that, under such circumstances,
the law connecting capital punishment with the guilt of witchcraft was resorted to as the only
means to protect society, and warn others from entering into the dark,
wicked, and malignant compact? It is not probable that even King
James's Parliament would have been willing to go to the length of
Selden in his "Table-Talk," who takes this ground in defence of the
capital punishment of witches.

"The law against witches does not prove there be any, but it punishes
the malice of those people that use such means to take away men's
lives.

If one should profess, that, by turning his hat thrice and crying'Buzz,'he
could take away a man's life (though in truth he could do no such
thing), yet this were a just law made by the State, that whoever should
turn his hat thrice and cry'Buzz,'with an intention to take away a
man's life, shall be put to death."

There are other considerations that deserve to be weighed before a final
judgment should be made up respecting the conduct of our fathers
in the witchcraft delusion.

Among these is the condition of physical science in their day. But little knowledge of the laws
of nature was possessed, and that little was confined to a few. The world was still, to the
mass of the people, almost as full of mystery in its physical departments
as it was to its first inhabitants.

Politics, poetry, rhetoric, ethics, and history had been cultivated to a great extent in previous
ages; but the philosophy of the natural and material world was almost unknown. Astronomy, chemistry,
optics, pneumatics, and even geography, were involved in the general
darkness and error. Some of our most important sciences, such as electricity,
date their origin from a later period.

This remarkable tardiness in the progress of physical science for some time after the era of
the revival of learning is to be accounted for by referring to the erroneous methods of reasoning
and observation then prevalent in the world. A false logic was adopted
in the schools of learning and philosophy.

The great instrument for the discovery and investigation of truth was the syllogism, the most absurd
contrivance of the human mind; an argumentative process whose conclusion is contained in the premises;
a method of proof, in the first step of which the matter to be proved is taken for granted. [C]
In a word, the whole system of philosophy was made up of hypotheses,
and the only foundation of science was laid in conjecture.

It had reached a monstrous growth about the time to which we are
referring.

Indeed it may be
  said, that all the intellectual productions of modern times, from the
seventeenth century back to the dark ages, were works of imagination.
The bulkiest and most voluminous writings that proceeded from the
cloisters or the universities, even the metaphysical disquisitions
of the Nominalists and Realists, and the boundless subtleties of the
contending schools of the "Divine Doctors," Thomas Aquinas and Duns
Scotus, fall under this description.

Dull, dreary, unintelligible,
  and interminable as they are, they are
  still in reality works of fancy.

They are the offspring, almost exclusively, of the imaginative faculty.

It ought
not to create surprise, to find that this faculty predominated in the minds and characters of our ancestors,
and developed itself to an extent beyond our conception, when we reflect that it was almost
the only one called into exercise, and that it was the leading element of every branch of literature
and philosophy.

[Footnote C: The syllogism was originally designed to serve as a
method of determining the arrangement and classification of truth
already shown; and, when employed for this purpose, was of great value
and excellence. It was its perverted application to the discovery of
truth which rendered utterly worthless so large a part of the learning
and philosophy of the middle ages. The reader will perceive, that
it is to the syllogism, as thus misapplied and misunderstood by the
schoolmen, not as designed and used by Aristotle, that the remarks
in the text are intended to apply.] It is true, that, in the earlier
part of the seventeenth century, Lord Bacon made his sublime discoveries
in the department of physical science.

By disclosing the true method of investigation and reasoning on
such subjects, he may be said to have found, or rather to have invented,
the key that unlocked the hitherto unopened halls of nature.

He introduced man to the secret chambers of the universe, and placed in his hand the thread by which
he has been conducted to the magnificent results of modern science, and will undoubtedly be
led on to results still more magnificent in times to come. But it was not for human nature to pass
in a moment from darkness to light. The transition was slow and
gradual: a long twilight intervened before the sun shed its clear
and full radiance upon the world.

The great discoverer himself refused to admit, or was unable to
discern, some of the truths his system had revealed.

Bacon was numbered among the opponents of the Copernican or true
system of astronomy to the day of his death; so also was Sir Thomas
Browne, the great philosopher already described, and who flourished
during the latter half of the same century.

Indeed, it may be said, that, at the time of the witchcraft delusion, the
ancient empire of darkness which had oppressed and crushed the world
of science had hardly been shaken. The great and triumphant progress of
modern discovery had scarcely begun. I shall now proceed to illustrate
these views of the state of science in the world at that time by
presenting a few instances.

The slightest examination of the accounts which remain of occurrences deemed
supernatural by our ancestors will satisfy any one that they were
brought about by causes entirely natural, although unknown to them.
For instance, the following circumstances are related by the Rev.
James Pierpont, pastor of a church in New Haven, in a letter to Cotton
Mather, and published by him in his "Magnalia:" [D]-- In the year
1646, a new ship, containing a valuable cargo, and having several
distinguished persons on board as passengers, put to sea from New
Haven in the month of January, bound to England.

The vessels that came over the ensuing spring brought no tidings
of her arrival in the mother-country. The pious colonists were earnest and
instant in their prayers that intelligence might be received of the
missing vessel.

In the month of June, 1648, "a great thunder-storm arose out of the north-west;
after which (the hemisphere being serene), about an hour before sunset, a
ship of like dimensions with the aforesaid, with her canvas and colors
abroad (although the wind was northerly), appeared in the air, coming
up from the harbor's mouth, which lies southward from the town,--
seemingly with her sails filled under a fresh gale, holding her course
north, and continuing under observation, sailing against the wind
for the space of half an hour."

The phantom-ship
was borne along, until, to the excited imaginations of the spectators,
she seemed to have approached so near that they could throw a stone
into her.

Her main-topmast then disappeared, then her mizzen-topmast; then her
masts were entirely carried away; and, finally, her hull fell off,
and vanished from sight,-- leaving a dull and smoke-colored cloud,
which soon dissolved, and the whole atmosphere became clear.

All affirmed that the airy vision was a precise copy and image of the
missing vessel, and that it was sent to announce and describe her fate.
They considered it the spectre of the lost ship; and the Rev. Mr. Davenport
declared in public, "that God had condescended, for the quieting
their afflicted spirits, this extraordinary account of his sovereign
disposal of those for whom so many fervent prayers were made continually."

[Footnote D: The manner in which Dr. Mather brings forward this affair
shows how loose and inaccurate he was in his description of events.

It also illustrates the tendency of the times to exaggerate, or to paint in the highest colors, whatever
was susceptible of being represented as miraculous.

There is no reason, however, to doubt that the facts took place substantially as described in the
text. The reader is referred, on this as on all points connected with our early history, to Mr. Savage's
instructive, elaborate, and entertaining edition of Winthrop's "New England."] The results of modern
science enable us to explain the mysterious appearance. It is probable that some Dutch vessel, proceeding
slowly, quietly, and unconsciously on her voyage from Amsterdam to the New Netherlands, happened
at the time to be passing through the Sound. At the moment the apparition was seen in the sky, she
was so near, that her reflected image was painted or delineated,
to the eyes of the observers, on the clouds, by laws of optics now
generally well known, before her actual outlines could be discerned
by them on the horizon.

As the sun sunk behind the western hills, and his rays were gradually withdrawn, the visionary ship
slowly disappeared; and the approach of night effectually concealed the vessel as she continued her
course along the Sound. The optical illusions that present themselves on the sea-shore, by
which distant objects are raised to view, the opposite capes and islands made to loom up, lifted
above the line of the apparent circumference of the earth, and thrown
into every variety of shape which the imagination can conceive, are
among the most beautiful phenomena of nature; and they impress the
mind with the idea of enchantment and mystery, more perhaps than any
others: but they have received a complete solution from modern discovery.

It
should be observed, that the optical principles which explain these
phenomena have recently afforded a foundation for the science, or rather
art, of nauscopy; and there are persons in some places,-- in the
Isle of France, as I have been told,-- whose calling and profession
is to ascertain and predict the approach of vessels, by their reflection
in the atmosphere and on the clouds, long before they are visible
to the eye, or through the glass.

The following opinion prevailed at the time of our narrative. The discoveries in electricity, itself a
recent science, have rendered it impossible for us to contemplate it without ridicule. But it was
the sober opinion of the age. "A great man has noted it," says a learned writer, "that thunders
break oftener on churches than any other houses, because demons have a peculiar spite at houses
that are set apart for the peculiar service of God." Every thing that was strange or remarkable--
every thing at all out of the usual course, every thing that was not clear and plain-- was attributed
to supernatural interposition. Indeed, our fathers lived, as they thought, continually in the
midst of miracles; and felt themselves surrounded, at all times, in all scenes, with innumerable invisible
beings. What was to him, however, a momentary vision of the imagination,
was to them like a perpetual perception of the senses: it was a practical
belief, an everyday common sentiment, an all-pervading feeling.

But these supernatural beings very frequently were believed to have
become visible to our superstitious ancestors. The instances, indeed,
were not rare, of individuals having seen the Devil himself with their
mortal eyes.

They may well be brought to notice, as illustrating the ideas which then prevailed, and had
an immediate, practical effect on the conduct of men, in reference to the power, presence, and action
of the Devil in human affairs. This, in fact, is necessary, that we may understand the narrative
we are preparing to contemplate of transactions based wholly on those ideas. The following
passage is extracted from a letter written to Increase Mather by
the Rev. John Higginson:-- "The godly Mr. Sharp, who was ruling elder
of the church of Salem almost thirty years after, related it of himself,
that, being bred up to learning till he was eighteen years old, and
then taken off, and put to be an apprentice to a draper in London,
he yet notwithstanding continued a strong inclination and eager affection
to books, with a curiosity of hearkening after and reading of the
strangest and oddest books he could get, spending much of his time
that way to the neglect of his business.

At one time, there came a man into the shop, and brought a book with him, and said to him,'Here is a
book for you, keep this till I call for it again;'and so went away.

Mr. Sharp, after his wonted bookish manner, was eagerly affected to
look into that book, and read it, which he did: but, as he read in it, he
was seized on by a strange kind of horror, both of body and mind,
the hair of his head standing up; and, finding these effects several
times, he acquainted his master with it, who, observing the same effects,
they concluded it was a conjuring book, and resolved to burn it, which
they did.

He that brought it in the shape of a man never coming to call for it, they concluded
it was the Devil.

He, taking this as a solemn warning from God to take heed what books
he read, was much taken off from his former bookishness; confining himself
to reading the Bible, and other known good books of divinity, which
were profitable to his soul."

Kircher relates the following
anecdote, with a full belief of its truth: He had a friend who was
zealously and perseveringly devoted to the study of alchemy.

At one time, while he was intent upon his operations, a gentleman entered his laboratory, and
kindly offered to assist him. In a few moments, a large mass of the
purest gold was brought forth from the crucible.

The gentleman then took his hat, and went out: before leaving the
apartment, however, he wrote a recipe for making the precious article.
The grateful and admiring mortal continued his operations, according
to the directions of his visitor; but the charm was lost: he could
not succeed, and was at last completely ruined by his costly and
fruitless experiments.

Both he and his friend Kircher were fully persuaded that the mysterious
stranger-visitor was the Devil. Baxter has recorded a curious interview
between Satan and Mr. White, of Dorchester, assessor to the Westminster
Assembly:-- "The Devil, in a light night, stood by his bedside.

The assessor looked a while, whether he would say or do any thing, and then said,'If thou hast nothing
to do, I have;'and so turned himself to sleep." Dr. Hibbert is of opinion, that the Rev. Mr. White
treated his satanic majesty, on this occasion, with "a cool contempt, to which he had not often
been accustomed." Indeed, there is nothing more curious or instructive, in the history of that period,
than the light which it sheds upon the influence of the belief of
the personal existence and operations of the Devil, when that belief
is carried out fully into its practical effects.

The Christian doctrine had relapsed into a system almost identical with
Manicheism. Wierus thus describes Satan, as he was regarded in the
prevalent theology: "He possesses great courage, incredible cunning,
superhuman wisdom, the most acute penetration, consummate prudence, an
incomparable skill in veiling the most pernicious artifices under a specious
disguise, and a malicious and infinite hatred towards the human race,
implacable and incurable."

Milton merely responded to the popular sentiment in making Satan a character of lofty dignity,
and in placing him on an elevation not "less than archangel ruined." Hallywell,
in his work on witchcraft, declares that "that mighty angel of darkness
is not foolishly nor idly to be scoffed at or blasphemed.

The Devil," says he, "may properly be looked upon as a dignity, though
his glory be pale and wan, and those once bright and orient colors
faded and darkened in his robes; and the Scriptures represent him
as a prince, though it be of devils."

Although our fathers cannot be charged with having regarded the Devil
in this respectful and deferential light, it must be acknowledged that
they gave him a conspicuous and distinguished-- we might almost say a
dignified-- agency in the affairs of life and the government of the
world: they were prone to confess, if not to revere, his presence,
in all scenes and at all times.

He occupied a wide space, not merely in their theology and philosophy,
but in their daily and familiar thoughts. [E] [Footnote E: It is much
to be regretted, that Farmer, after having written with such admirable
success upon the temptation, the demoniacs, miracles, and the worship
of human spirits, did not live to accomplish his original design,
by giving the world a complete discussion and elucidation of the Scripture
doctrine of the Devil.] Cotton Mather, in one of his sermons, carries
home this peculiar belief to the consciences of his hearers, in a
manner that could not have failed to quicken and startle the most
dull and drowsy among them.

"No place," says he, "that I know of, has got such a spell upon it as
will always keep the Devil out. The meeting-house, wherein we assemble
for the worship of God, is filled with many holy people and many
holy concerns continually; but, if our eyes were so refined as the
servant of the prophet had his of old, I suppose we should now see
a throng of devils in this very place.

The apostle has intimated that angels come in among us: there are angels,
it seems, that hark how I preach, and how you hear, at this hour. And
our own sad experience is enough to intimate that the devils are
likewise rendezvousing here. The principal
feature of the Burlingame treaty was its attention to and its treatment of the Chinese immigration
and the Chinese as forming, or as they should form, a part of our population. Up to this time
our uncovenanted hospitality to immigration, our fearless liberality of citizenship, our equal
and comprehensive justice to all inhabitants, whether they abjured their foreign nationality
or not, our civil freedom, and our religious toleration had made all comers welcome, and under
these protections the Chinese in considerable numbers had made their lodgment upon our soil.

The Burlingame treaty undertakes to deal with this situation, and its fifth and sixth articles
embrace its most important provisions in this regard and the main stipulations in which the
Chinese Government has secured an obligatory protection of its subjects within our territory.
They read as follows:

  ART. V. The United States of America and the Emperor of China
  cordially recognize the inherent and inalienable right of man to
  change his home and allegiance, and also the mutual advantage of
  the free migration and emigration of their citizens and subjects
  respectively from the one country to the other for purposes of
  curiosity, of trade, or as permanent residents. The high contracting
  parties therefore join in reprobating any other than an entirely
  voluntary emigration for these purposes. They consequently agree to
  pass laws making it a penal offense for a citizen of the United States
  or Chinese subjects to take Chinese subjects either to the United
  States or to any other foreign country, or for a Chinese subject or
  citizen of the United States to take citizens of the United States
  to China or to any other foreign country, without their free and
  voluntary consent, respectively.

  ART. But nothing herein contained shall be held to
  confer naturalization upon citizens of the United States in China,
  nor upon the subjects of China in the United States.

An examination of these two articles in the light of the experience then influential in suggesting
their "necessity" will show that the fifth article was framed in hostility to what seemed the
principal mischief to be guarded against, to wit, the introduction of Chinese laborers by methods
which should have the character of a forced and servile importation, and not of a voluntary
emigration of freemen seeking our shores upon motives and in a manner consonant with the system
of our institutions and approved by the experience of the nation. The course of the accusing children
in crying out against one of their own number satisfied the public, and convinced still more
the magistrates, that they were truthful, honest, and upright. They had before given evidence that
they paid no regard to family influence or eminent reputation. They had now proved that they
had no partiality and no favoritism, but were equally ready to bring to light and to justice
any of their own circle who might fall into the snare of the Evil One, and become confederate
with him. No dramatic artist, no cunning impostor, ever contrived a more ingenious plot; and
no actors ever carried one out better than Mary Warren and the afflicted
children.

Giles Corey incurred hostility, perhaps, because his deposition relating to his wife did not come
up to the mark required. It is also highly probable, that, though incensed at her conduct at the
time, reflection had brought him to his senses; and that the circumstances of her examination
and commitment to prison produced a re-action in his mind. If so, he would have been apt to
express himself very freely. His examination took place April 19th, in the meeting-house at the
Village. The girls acted their usual part, charging him, one by one, with having afflicted
them, and proving it on the spot by tortures and sufferings. After they had severally got through,
they all joined at once in their demonstrations. The report made by Parris says, "All the
afflicted were seized now with fits, and troubled with pinches.

Then the Court ordered his hands to be tied." The magistrates lost all control of themselves,
and flew into a passion, exclaiming, "What! is it not enough to act witchcraft at other times,
but must you do it now, in face of authority?" He seems to have been profoundly affected by
the marvellousness of the accusations, and the exhibition of what to him was inexplicable in
the sufferings of the girls; and all he could say was, "I am a poor creature, and cannot help it."-- "Upon
the motion of his head again, they had their heads and necks afflicted." The magistrates, not
having recovered their composure, continued to pour their wrath upon him, "Why do you tell such
wicked lies against witnesses?"-- "One of his hands was let go, and several were afflicted. He
held his head on one side, and then the heads of several of the afflicted were held on one side.
He drew in his cheeks, and the cheeks of some of the afflicted were sucked in." Goody Bibber
was on hand, and played her accompaniment. She also uttered malignant charges against him, and
"was suddenly seized with a violent fit." One of Bibber's statements was that he had called her
husband "damned devilish rogue." Through all this outrage, Corey was firm in asserting his innocence.
His language and manner were serious, and solemnized by a sense of
the helplessness of his situation and the wicked falsehoods heaped
upon him.

His disagreement with his wife about the witchcraft proceedings being well known, the accusers
endeavored to make it out that they had often quarrelled. But he insisted that the only difference
which had before existed between them was a conflict of opinion on one point. In his family
devotions, he used this expression, "living to God and dying to sin." She "found fault" with
the language, and criticised it. He thought it was all right! The characteristic spirit of the
old man was roused most strikingly by one of the charges. Bibber and others testified that
Corey had said he had seen the Devil in the shape of a black hog and was very much frightened.
He could not stand under the imputation of cowardice, and lost sight of every other element
in the accusation but that. The magistrate asked, "What did you see in the cow-house? Why do
you deny it?"-- "I saw nothing but my cattle."-- "(Divers witnessed that he told them he was frighted.)"-- "Well,
what do you say to these witnesses? What was it frighted you?"-- "I do not know that ever
I spoke the word in my life."

But while his character retained its manliness, and his soul was truly insensible to fear, he
was very much oppressed and distressed by his situation. The share he had, with two of his
sons-in-law, in bringing his wife into her awful condition, and in driving on the public infatuation
at the beginning, was more than he could endure to think of, and he was charged with having
meditated suicide.

Perhaps he had already formed the purpose afterwards carried into effect, and may have dropped expressions,
under that thought, which to others might appear to indicate a design of self-destruction. He
was accused of having said that "he would make away with himself, and charge his death upon his son."
His sons-in-law, Crosby and Parker, were acting with the crowd that were pursuing him to his
death. Little did it enter the imagination of any one then, that there was a method by which
he could "make away with himself," leaving the entire act of the destruction of his life upon
his persecutors, and the sin to be apportioned between him and them
by the All-wise and All-just.

Abigail Hobbs had been a reckless vagrant creature, wandering through the woods at night like a half-deranged
person; but she had wit enough to see that there was safety in confession. She pretended to
have committed, by witchcraft, crimes enough to have hanged her a dozen times. If she had stood to
her confession, we should have heard of her no more.

Bridget Bishop's examination filled the intervals of time while Mary Warren was being carried
out of the meeting-house to recover from her fits. Both Parris and Ezekiel Cheever took minutes
of it, from which the substance is gathered as follows:-- On her
coming in, the afflicted persons, at the same moment, severally fell
into fits, and were dreadfully tormented.

  
  Hathorne addressed her, calling upon her to give an account of the witchcrafts
  she was "conversant in." She replied, "I take all this people to
  witness that I am clear." He then asked the children, "Hath this woman
  hurt you?" They all cried out that she had. The magistrate continued,
  "You are here accused by four or five: what do you say to it?"--
"I never saw these persons before, nor I never [A] was in this place
before.

I never did hurt them in my life."

  [Footnote A: The double negative, as often used, merely intensified the
  negation. See "Measure for Measure," act i. scene 1.] At a meeting of
  the afflicted children and others, some one declared that Bridget
Bishop was present "in her shape" or apparition, and, pointing to
a particular spot, said, "There, there she is!"

Young Jonathan Walcot, exasperated by his sister's sufferings, struck
at the spot with his sword; whereupon Mary cried out, "You have hit
her, you have torn her coat, and I heard it tear."

This story had been brought to Hathorne's ears; and abruptly, as if to take her off her guard, he said, "Is
not your coat cut?"

She answered, "No." They then examined the coat, and found what they regarded as having been "cut or
torn two ways." It was probably the fashion in which the garment was made; for she was in the habit
of dressing more artistically than the women of the Village. At any
rate, it did not appear like a direct cut of a sword; but Jonathan got
over the difficulty by saying that "the sword that he struck at Goody
Bishop was not naked, but was within the scabbard."

This explained the whole matter, so that Cheever says, in his report, that "the rent may very
probably be the very same that Mary Walcot did tell that she had in her coat, by Jonathan's
striking at her appearance"! Parris says, with more caution, more indeed than was usual with him,
"Upon some search in the Court, a rent, that seems to answer what was alleged, was found."
Hathorne, having heard the scandals they had circulated against her, proceeded: "They say you bewitched
your first husband to death."-- "If it please Your Worship, I know nothing of it."-- "What do you say
of these murders you are charged with?"-- "I hope I am not guilty of murder." As she said this,
she turned up her eyes, probably to give solemnity to her declaration. At the opening of the examination,
she looked round upon the people, and called them to witness her innocence. She had found out by this
time, that no justice could be expected from them; and feeling, with Rebecca Nurse on a recent
similar occasion, "I have got nobody to look to but God," she turned
her eyes heavenward.

Instantly, the eyeballs of all the girls were rolled up in their sockets, and fixed. The effect
was awful, and still more increased as they went, after a moment or two, into dreadful torments. Hathorne
could no longer contain himself, but broke out, "Do you not see how they are tormented? You
are acting witchcraft before us! What do you say to this? Why have you not a heart to confess the truth?"
She calmly replied, "I am innocent. I know nothing of it. I am no witch. I know not what a witch
is." The "afflicted children" charged her with having tried to persuade them to sign the Devil's
book. As she had never before seen one of them, she was indignant at this barefaced falsehood,
and, as Cheever says, "shook her head" in her resentment; which, as he further says, put them all into great
torments. Parris represents that in every motion of her head they were tortured. Marshal Herrick,
as usual, put in his oar, and volunteered charges against her. She bore herself well through
the shocking scene, and did not shrink, at its close, from expressing
her unbelief of the whole thing: "I do not know whether there be
any witches or no."

When she was removed from the place of examination, the accusers all had fits, and broke forth in
outcries of agony. After being taken out, one of the constables in charge of her asked her if she was
not troubled to see the afflicted persons so tormented; and she replied, "No." In answer to further
questions, she indicated that she could not tell what to think of them, and did not concern herself
about them at all. Giles Corey, Bridget Bishop, Abigail Hobbs, together with Mary Warren, were
duly committed to prison.

Two days after, April 21, warrants were issued "against William Hobbs,
husbandman, and Deliverance his wife; Nehemiah Abbot, Jr., weaver;
Mary Easty, the wife of Isaac Easty; and Sarah Wilds, the wife of
John Wilds,-- all of the town of Topsfield, or Ipswich; and Edward
Bishop, husbandman, and Sarah his wife, of Salem Village; and Mary
Black, a negro of Lieutenant Nathaniel Putnam's, of Salem Village
also; and Mary English, the wife of Philip English, merchant in Salem."

All of them were to be delivered to the magistrates for examination at
the house of Lieutenant Nathaniel Ingersoll, at about ten o'clock
the next morning, in Salem Village; and were brought in accordingly.

What the papers on file enable us to glean of these nine persons
is substantially as follows: William Hobbs was about fifty years
of age, and one of the earliest settlers of the Village, although
his residence was on the territory afterwards included in Topsfield.

His daughter Abigail, of whom I have just spoken, appears from all
the accounts to have acted at this stage of the transaction a most wicked
part, ready to do all the mischief in her power, and allowing herself
to be used to any extent to fasten the imputation of witchcraft upon
others.

Several persons testified that, long before, she had boasted that she was not afraid of any thing,
"for she had sold herself body and soul to the Old Boy;" one witness
testified, that, "some time last winter, I was discoursing with Abigail
Hobbs about her wicked carriages and disobedience to her father and
mother, and she told me she did not care what anybody said to her,
for she had seen the Devil, and had made a covenant or bargain with
him;" another, Margaret Knight, testified, that, about a year before,
"Abigail Hobbs and her mother were at my father's house, and Abigail
Hobbs said to me,'Margaret, are you baptized?'And I said,'Yes.'Then
said she,'My mother is not baptized, but I will baptize her;'and immediately
took water, and sprinkled in her mother's face, and said she did baptize
her'in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost.'"

She was arrested, and brought to the Village, on the 19th of April.

The
next day, she began her operations by declaring that "Judah White, a Jersey maid" that lived with
Joseph Ingersoll at Casco, "but now lives at Boston," appeared to her
"in apparition" the day before, and advised her to "fly, and not to
go to be examined," but, if she did go, "not to confess any thing:"
she described the dress of this "apparition,"-- she "came to her in fine
clothes, in a sad-colored silk mantle, with a top-knot and a hood."--
"She confesseth further, that the Devil in the shape of a man came
to her," and charged her to afflict the girls; bringing images made
of wood in their likeness with thorns for her to prick into the images,
which she did: whereupon the girls cried out that they were hurt by
her.

She further confessed, that, "she was at the great meeting in Mr. Parris's pasture, when they
administered the sacrament, and did eat of the red bread and drink of the red wine, at the same
time."

This confession established her credibility at once; and, the next
day, the warrants were issued for the nine persons above mentioned, against
whom they had secured in her an effective witness. She had resided for
some time at Casco Bay; and we shall soon see how matters began in
a few days to work in that direction.

There are two indictments against this Abigail Hobbs: one charging
her with having made a covenant with "the Evil Spirit, the Devil,"
at Casco Bay, in 1688; the other with having exercised the arts of witchcraft
upon the afflicted girls, at Salem Village, in 1692. When her unhappy father
was brought to examination, he found that his daughter was playing
into the hands of the accusers; and that his wife, overwhelmed by
the horrors of the situation, although for a time protesting her innocence
and lamenting that she had been the mother of such a daughter, had
broken down and confessed, saying whatever might be put in her mouth
by the magistrates, the girls, or the crowd.

Under these circumstances,
  he was brought forward
    for examination. Parris took minutes of it. It is to be regretted,
that the paper is much dilapidated, and portions of the lines wholly
lost. What is left shows that the mind of William Hobbs rose superior
to the terrors and powers arrayed against it. The magistrate commenced
proceedings by inquiring of the girls, pointing to the prisoner, "Hath
this man hurt you?" Several of them answered "Yes." Goody Bibber,
who seems generally to have been a very zealous volunteer backer of the
girls, on this occasion, for a wonder, answered "No." The magistrate,
addressing the prisoner, "What say you? Are you guilty or not?"--
Answer: "I can speak in the presence of God safely, as I must look
to give account another day, that I am as clear as a new-born babe."--
"Clear of what?"-- "Of witchcraft."-- "Have you never hurt these?"--
"No."

Abigail Williams cried out that he "was going to Mercy Lewis!"

Whereupon Mercy was seized with a fit. Then Abigail cried out again, "He is coming to Mary Walcot!" and
Mary went into her fit. The magistrate, in consternation, appealed to him: "How can you be
clear," when your appearance is thus seen producing such effects before our eyes? Then the children
went into fits all together, and "hallooed" at the top of their voices, and
"shouted greatly."

It is impossible for me to look without grave concern upon a state of things which will leave
the public service thus unprovided for and the public interests thus unprotected, and I earnestly
urge upon your attention the necessity of making immediate appropriations for the maintenance
of the service of the marshals and deputy marshals for the fiscal year which commences to-morrow.

RUTHERFORD B. HAYES.

[Footnote 27: See pp. 545-547.]

WASHINGTON, July 1, 1879.

To the Senate of the United States:

In answer to a resolution of the Senate of the 28th June, 1879, requesting a copy of any correspondence
which may have passed between the Department of State and the Republic of Mexico in regard
to the proposed Austin-Topolovampo Railroad survey across the northern States of that country,
I transmit herewith the report of the Secretary of State upon the subject.

R.B. HAYES.

VETO MESSAGES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, April 29, 1879.

The bill provides in the usual form for the appropriations required for the support of the
Army during the next fiscal year. If it contained no other provisions, it would receive my
prompt approval. It includes, however, further legislation, which, attached, as it is, to appropriations
which are requisite for the efficient performance of some of the most necessary duties of the
Government, involves questions of the gravest character. The sixth section of the bill is amendatory
of the statute now in force in regard to the authority of persons in the civil, military, and
naval service of the United States "at the place where any general or special election is held
in any State." This statute was adopted February 25, 1865, after a protracted debate in the
Senate, and almost without opposition in the House of Representatives, by the concurrent votes
of both of the leading political parties of the country, and became a law by the approval of
President Lincoln. It was reenacted in 1874 in the Revised Statutes of the United States, sections
2002 and 5528, which are as follows:

  SEC. 2002.

  SEC. 5528.

The amendment proposed to this statute in the bill before me omits from both of the foregoing
sections the words "or to keep the peace at the polls," The effect of the adoption of this
amendment may be considered--

First. Upon the right of the United States Government to use military force to keep the peace
at the elections for Members of Congress; and

Second. Upon the right of the Government, by civil authority, to protect these elections from
violence and fraud.

In addition to the sections of the statute above quoted, the following provisions of law relating
to the use of the military power at the elections are now in force:

  SEC. 2003.

  SEC. 5529. Every officer or other person in the military or
  naval service who, by force, threat, intimidation, order,
  advice, or otherwise, prevents, or attempts to prevent, any
  qualified voter of any State from freely exercising the right
  of suffrage at any general or special election in such State
  shall be fined not more than $5,000 and imprisoned at hard
  labor not more than five years.

  SEC. 5530. Every officer of the Army or Navy who prescribes
  or fixes, or attempts to prescribe or fix, whether by
  proclamation, order, or otherwise, the qualifications of
  voters at any election in any State shall be punished as
  provided in the preceding section.

  SEC. 5531.

  SEC. 5532.

The foregoing enactments would seem to be sufficient to prevent military interference with
the elections. 15.

This act passed the Senate, after full consideration, without a single vote recorded against
it on its final passage, and, by a majority of more than two-thirds, it was concurred in by
the House of Representatives.

The purpose of the section quoted was stated in the Senate by one of its supporters as follows:

  Therefore I hope, without getting into any controversy about
  the past, but acting wisely for the future, that we shall
  take away the idea that the Army can be used by a general or
  special deputy marshal, or any marshal, merely for election
  purposes, as a posse, ordering them about the polls or
  ordering them anywhere else, when there is an election going
  on, to prevent disorders or to suppress disturbances that
  should be suppressed by the peace officers of the State; or,
  if they must bring others to their aid they should summon the
  unorganized citizens, and not summon the officers and men of
  the Army as posse comitatus to quell disorders, and thus
  get up a feeling which will be disastrous to peace among the
  people of the country.

In the House of Representatives the object of the act of 1878 was stated by the gentleman who
had it in charge in similar terms. He said:

  But these are all minor points and insignificant questions
  compared with the great principle which was incorporated by
  the House in the bill in reference to the use of the Army
  in time of peace. The Senate had already conceded what they
  called and what we might accept as the principle, but they
  had stricken out the penalty, and had stricken out the word
  "expressly" so that the Army might be used in all cases
  where implied authority might be inferred. The House
  committee planted themselves firmly upon the doctrine that
  rather than yield this fundamental principle, for which for
  three years this House had struggled, they would allow
  the bill to fail, notwithstanding the reforms which we had
  secured, regarding these reforms as of but little consequence
  alongside the great principle that the Army of the United
  States, in time of peace, should be under the control of
  Congress and obedient to its laws. After a long and protracted
  negotiation, the Senate committee have conceded that principle
  in all its length and breadth, including the penalty, which
  the Senate had stricken out. We bring you back, therefore,
  a report, with the alteration of a single word, which the
  lawyers assure me is proper to be made, restoring to this bill
  the principle for which we have contended so long, and which
  is so vital to secure the rights and liberties of the people.

     *       *       *       *       *

  Thus have we this day secured to the people of this country
  the same great protection against a standing army which cost
  a struggle of two hundred years for the Commons of England to
  secure for the British people.

From this brief review of the subject it sufficiently appears that under existing laws there
can be no military interference with the elections. No case of such interference has, in fact,
occurred since the passage of the act last referred to. No soldier of the United States has
appeared under orders at any place of election in any State. No complaint even of the presence
of United States troops has been made in any quarter. It may therefore be confidently stated
that there is no necessity for the enactment of section 6 of the bill before me to prevent
military interference with the elections. The laws already in force are all that is required
for that end.

But that part of section 6 of this bill which is significant and vitally important is the clause
which, if adopted, will deprive the civil authorities of the United States of all power to
keep the peace at the Congressional elections.

Two provisions of the Constitution authorize legislation by Congress for the regulation of
the Congressional elections.

Section 4 of Article I of the Constitution declares--

  The times, places, and manner of holding elections for
  Senators and Representatives shall be prescribed in each State
  by the legislature thereof; but the Congress may at any time,
  by law, make or alter such regulations, except as to the
  places of choosing Senators.

The fifteenth amendment of the Constitution is as follows:

  SEC.

The Supreme Court has held that this amendment invests the citizens of the United States with
a new constitutional right which is within the protecting power of Congress. That right the
court declares to be exemption from discrimination in the exercise of the elective franchise
on account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude. The power of Congress to protect
this right by appropriate legislation is expressly affirmed by the court.

National legislation to provide safeguards for free and honest elections is necessary, as experience
has shown, not only to secure the right to vote to the enfranchised race at the South, but
also to prevent fraudulent voting in the large cities of the North. Congress has therefore
exercised the power conferred by the Constitution, and has enacted certain laws to prevent
discriminations on account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude, and to punish
fraud, violence, and intimidation at Federal elections. Attention is called to the following
sections of the Revised Statutes of the United States, viz:

Section 2004, which guarantees to all citizens the right to vote, without distinction on account
of race, color, or previous condition of servitude.

Sections 2005 and 2006, which guarantee to all citizens equal opportunity, without discrimination,
to perform all the acts required by law as a prerequisite or qualification for voting.

Section 2022, which authorizes the United States marshal and his deputies to keep the peace
and preserve order at the Federal elections.

Section 2024, which expressly authorizes the United States marshal and his deputies to summon
a posse comitatus whenever they or any of them are forcibly resisted in the execution of their
duties under the law or are prevented from executing such duties by violence.

Section 5522, which provides for the punishment of the crime of interfering with the supervisors
of elections and deputy marshals in the discharge of their duties at the elections of Representatives
in Congress.

These are some of the laws on this subject which it is the duty of the executive department
of the Government to enforce. The intent and effect of the sixth section of this bill is to
prohibit all the civil officers of the United States, under penalty of fine and imprisonment,
from employing any adequate civil force for this purpose at the place where their enforcement
is most necessary, namely, at the places where the Congressional elections are held. Among
the most valuable enactments to which I have referred are those which protect the supervisors
of Federal elections in the discharge of their duties at the polls. If the proposed legislation
should become the law, there will be no power vested in any officer of the Government to protect
from violence the officers of the United States engaged in the discharge of their duties. Their
rights and duties under the law will remain, but the National Government will be powerless
to enforce its own statutes. The States may employ both military and civil power to keep the
peace and to enforce the laws at State elections. It is now proposed to deny to the United
States even the necessary civil authority to protect the national elections. No sufficient
reason has been given for this discrimination in favor of the State and against the national
authority. If well-founded objections exist against the present national election laws, all
good citizens should unite in their amendment. The laws providing the safeguards of the elections
should be impartial, just, and efficient. They should, if possible, be so nonpartisan and fair
in their operation that the minority--the party out of power--will have no just grounds to
complain. The present laws have in practice unquestionably conduced to the prevention of fraud
and violence at the elections. In several of the States members of different political parties
have applied for the safeguards which they furnish. It is the right and duty of the National
Government to enact and enforce laws which will secure free and fair Congressional elections.
The laws now in force should not be repealed except in connection with the enactment of measures
which will better accomplish that important end. Believing that section 6 of the bill before
me will weaken, if it does not altogether take away, the power of the National Government to
protect the Federal elections by the civil authorities, I am forced to the conclusion that
it ought not to receive my approval.

This section is, however, not presented to me as a separate and independent measure, but is,
as has been stated, attached to the bill making the usual annual appropriations for the support
of the Army. It makes a vital change in the election laws of the country, which is in no way
connected with the use of the Army. If its title to commemoration be justly proportioned to its
magnitude, its singularity, and extent; not only various individuals, but different Nations,
will become rivals in promoting the fame of HOWARD. As the glorious qualities, which his life
displayed, are equally open to the emulation of the great and the humble; every class of human
creatures is peculiarly interested in his praise. If to honour his memory may be thought to
belong to any one community more than to another; surely, my Brethren, we shall not fail to assume
to ourselves so pleasing a duty, so honourable a distinction. Well, indeed, might the insulting
enemies of our Faith reproach us with a supine and disgraceful inattention to the real interest
of Virtue, and the true glory of Religion, could we suffer any other order of men to surpass
the Ministers of CHRIST in a meritorious zeal to honour this faithful servant of Heaven, whose life
exhibits a lesson more instructive and sublime than all the eloquence of the Pulpit! a Christian,
who has shewn us, in the most signal manner, how practicable it is to follow, in succouring the
distrest, not only the precepts, but the example of our GOD.

"In the moment that this benevolent Divine concluded his address to his attentive brethren, my
kind and vigilant Guides removed me from the temple.-- I was now led into a scene entirely different
from those we left. It was an open and verdant plain, with a few elevations in the ground, that
afforded advantageous views of the whole extensive spot. Here, instead of beholding the Ministers
of Peace, I found myself encircled by the multitudinous votaries of War. It appeared to me
that all the military and all the naval servants of our country were collected together, and
each different division of these well-appointed and well-looking men, that formed a pleasing spectacle
alone, was attended by a crowd of miscellaneous spectators, more numerous than itself: yet in
all this immense multitude there was no sign of tumult or confusion. They were ranged in such
a manner as to form a wide circular area in the midst of them. I was stationed on a little
eminence within this area; and in the same vacant space I beheld a party of veteran Commanders,
both Military and Naval, who seemed to have been conferring together, but separated by the direction
of my aetherial Conductors, to address, in different parts of this extensive field, the different
companies assigned to their care. What they respectively said in their separate departments I
was unable to discover, as I only heard distinctly one gallant Veteran, whose character was
particularly dear to me.

This consummate officer has raised himself by merit alone from the humblest rank of military life
to a station of the highest honour and trust. His modesty is as singular as his fortune: passing
close to me, with a gracious salutation, he approached a very fine
orderly corps of foot, who looked up to him with a sort of filial
respect, while he spoke to them the few following words:" As bravery
and compassion are the characteristics of good Soldiers, you cannot
want, my friends, any long exhortation from me to honour the memory
of HOWARD; the most resolute and the most compassionate man that has
lived in our time.

Though he was
not of our profession, as his life was devoted to mitigate the united
horrors of captivity and sickness, those worst of enemies to the spirit
of a soldier, you will undoubtedly feel that he has a peculiar claim
to our most grateful and generous regard.

  "This speech was followed by a burst of acclamation from those
  to whom it was particularly addressed. Similar shouts of
  applause resounded from different quarters of the spacious
  field, while our aetherial attendants, Gratitude and Admiration, who
  followed each speaker
  
  at the close of each address to different divisions of this innumerable
  assembly, displayed, to each division in its turn, an extensive
  sketch of a simple but magnificent mausoleum to the memory of Howard,
in the form of an English lazaretto. On the first display of this striking
and worthy monument, the applauding multitude seemed to exult in the
prospect of its completion. But I soon observed, to my inexpressible
concern, that while Gratitude and Admiration were busy in exciting the
various ranks of the vast assembly, to accomplish this favourite
design, they were followed by two earthy fiends of a dark and malignant
influence: these were Detraction and Indifference, who shed such a
chill and depressive mist around them, that all the ardour of the
Assembly seemed to sink.

Among the miscellaneous crowds that were visible between the divisions of
the martial host, there ran a murmur of obloquy and derision against
the pure object of public veneration.

  He was reviled as a whimsical Reformer, and a rash Enthusiast,
  who had absurdly sacrificed his life in a vain and fantastic
  pursuit.

  Mr. President, I should approach this question, if I were in
  the best possible condition to speak and to argue it, with
  very grave diffidence, and certainly with the utmost anxiety;
  for no one can think of it as long and as carefully as I have
  thought of it without seeing that we are at the beginning,
  perhaps, of a struggle that may last as long in this country
  as a similar struggle lasted in what we are accustomed to call
  the mother land. There the struggle lasted for two centuries
  before it was ultimately decided. It is not likely to last so
  long here, but it may last until every man in this chamber is
  in his grave. It is the question whether or no the House of
  Representatives has a right to say, "We will grant supplies
  only upon condition that grievances are redressed. We are
  the representatives of the taxpayers of the Republic. We, the
  House of Representatives, alone have the right to originate
  money bills. We, the House of Representatives, have alone the
  right to originate bills which grant the money of the people.
  The Senate represents States; we represent the taxpayers
  of the Republic. We, therefore, by the very terms of the
  Constitution, are charged with the duty of originating the
  bills which grant the money of the people. We claim the right,
  which the House of Commons in England established after two
  centuries of contest, to say that we will not grant the money
  of the people unless there is a redress of grievances."

Upon the assembling of this Congress, in pursuance of a call for an extra session, which was
made necessary by the failure of the Forty-fifth Congress to make the needful appropriations
for the support of the Government, the question was presented whether the attempt made in the
last Congress to ingraft by construction a new principle upon the Constitution should be persisted
in or not. This Congress has ample opportunity and time to pass the appropriation bills, and
also to enact any political measures which may be determined upon in separate bills by the
usual and orderly methods of proceeding. But the majority of both Houses have deemed it wise
to adhere to the principles asserted and maintained in the last Congress by the majority of
the House of Representatives. That principle is that the House of Representatives has the sole
right to originate bills for raising revenue, and therefore has the right to withhold appropriations
upon which the existence of the Government may depend unless the Senate and the President shall
give their assent to any legislation which the House may see fit to attach to appropriation
bills. To establish this principle is to make a radical, dangerous, and unconstitutional change
in the character of our institutions. The various departments of the Government and the Army
and the Navy are established by the Constitution or by laws passed in pursuance thereof. Their
duties are clearly defined and their support is carefully provided for by law. The money required
for this purpose has been collected from the people and is now in the Treasury, ready to be
paid out as soon as the appropriation bills are passed. Whether appropriations are made or
not, the collection of the taxes will go on. The public money will accumulate in the Treasury.
It was not the intention of the framers of the Constitution that any single branch of the Government
should have the power to dictate conditions upon which this treasure should be applied to the
purpose for which it was collected. Any such intention, if it had been entertained, would have
been plainly expressed in the Constitution.

That a majority of the Senate now concurs in the claim of the House adds to the gravity of
the situation, but does not alter the question at issue. The new doctrine, if maintained, will
result in a consolidation of unchecked and despotic power in the House of Representatives.
A bare majority of the House will become the Government. The Executive will no longer be what
the framers of the Constitution intended--an equal and independent branch of the Government.
It is clearly the constitutional duty of the President to exercise his discretion and judgment
upon all bills presented to him without constraint or duress from any other branch of the Government.
To say that a majority of either or both of the Houses of Congress may insist upon the approval
of a bill under the penalty of stopping all of the operations of the Government for want of
the necessary supplies is to deny to the Executive that share of the legislative power which
is plainly conferred by the second section of the seventh article of the Constitution. It strikes
from the Constitution the qualified negative of the President. It is said that this should
be done because it is the peculiar function of the House of Representatives to represent the
will of the people. But no single branch or department of the Government has exclusive authority
to speak for the American people. The most authentic and solemn expression of their will is
contained in the Constitution of the United States. By that Constitution they have ordained
and established a Government whose powers are distributed among coordinate branches, which,
as far as possible consistently with a harmonious cooperation, are absolutely independent of
each other. The people of this country are unwilling to see the supremacy of the Constitution
replaced by the omnipotence of any one department of the Government.

The enactment of this bill into a law will establish a precedent which will tend to destroy
the equal independence of the several branches of the Government. Its principle places not
merely the Senate and the Executive, but the judiciary also, under the coercive dictation of
the House. The House alone will be the judge of what constitutes a grievance, and also of the
means and measure of redress. An act of Congress to protect elections is now the grievance
complained of; but the House may on the same principle determine that any other act of Congress,
a treaty made by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate, a nomination or appointment
to office, or that a decision or opinion of the Supreme Court is a grievance, and that the
measure of redress is to withhold the appropriations required for the support of the offending
branch of the Government.

Believing that this bill is a dangerous violation of the spirit and meaning of the Constitution,
I am compelled to return it to the House in which it originated without my approval. The qualified
negative with which the Constitution invests the President is a trust that involves a duty
which he can not decline to perform. With a firm and conscientious purpose to do what I can
to preserve unimpaired the constitutional powers and equal independence, not merely of the
Executive, but of every branch of the Government, which will be imperiled by the adoption of
the principle of this bill, I desire earnestly to urge upon the House of Representatives a
return to the wise and wholesome usage of the earlier days of the Republic, which excluded
from appropriation bills all irrelevant legislation. By this course you will inaugurate an
important reform in the method of Congressional legislation; your action will be in harmony
with the fundamental principles of the Constitution and the patriotic sentiment of nationality
which is their firm support, and you will restore to the country that feeling of confidence
and security and the repose which are so essential to the prosperity of all of our fellow-citizens.

RUTHERFORD B. HAYES. The fact was presented in that communication that at the time of the passage
of the act of June 18, 1878, in relation to the employment of the Army as a posse comitatus
or otherwise, it was maintained by its friends that it would establish a vital and fundamental
principle which would secure, to the people protection against a standing army. The fact was
also referred to that since the passage of this act Congressional, State, and municipal elections
have been held throughout the Union, and that in no instance has complaint been made of the
presence of United States soldiers at the polls.

Holding, as I do, the opinion that any military interference whatever at the polls is contrary
to the spirit of our institutions and would tend to destroy the freedom of elections, and sincerely
desiring to concur with Congress in all of its measures, it is with very great regret that
I am forced to the conclusion that the bill before me is not only unnecessary to prevent such
interference, but is a dangerous departure from long-settled and important constitutional principles.

The true rule as to the employment of military force at the elections is not doubtful. No intimidation
or coercion should be allowed to control or influence citizens in the exercise of their right
to vote, whether it appears in the shape of combinations of evil-disposed persons, or of armed
bodies of the militia of a State, or of the military force of the United States.

The elections should be free from all forcible interference, and, as far as practicable, from
all apprehensions of such interference. No soldiers, either of the Union or of the State militia,
should be present at the polls to take the place or to perform the duties of the ordinary civil
police force. There has been and will be no violation of this rule under orders from me during
this Administration; but there should be no denial of the right of the National Government
to employ its military force on any day and at any place in case such employment is necessary
to enforce the Constitution and laws of the United States.

It will be observed that the bill exempts from the general prohibition against the employment
of military force at the polls two specified cases. These exceptions recognize and concede
the soundness of the principle that military force may properly and constitutionally be used
at the place of elections when such use is necessary to enforce the Constitution and the laws;
but the excepted cases leave the prohibition so extensive and far-reaching that its adoption
will seriously impair the efficiency of the executive department of the Government.

The first act expressly authorizing the use of military power to execute the laws was passed
almost as early as the organization of the Government under the Constitution, and was approved
by President Washington May 2, 1792. It is as follows:

  SEC. 2. And if the militia of a
  State where such combination may happen shall refuse or be
  insufficient to suppress the same, it shall be lawful for the
  President, if the Legislature of the United States be not in
  session, to call forth and employ such numbers of the militia
  of any other State or States most convenient thereto as may be
  necessary; and the use of militia so to be called forth may be
  continued, if necessary, until the expiration of thirty days
  after the commencement of the ensuing session.

In 1795 this provision was substantially reenacted in a law which repealed the act of 1792.
In 1807 the following act became the law by the approval of President Jefferson:

  That in all cases of insurrection or obstruction to the laws,
  either of the United States or of any individual State or
  Territory, where it is lawful for the President of the
  United States to call forth the militia for the purpose of
  suppressing such insurrection or of causing the laws to be
  duly executed, it shall be lawful for him to employ for the
  same purposes such part of the land or naval force of the
  United States as shall be judged necessary, having first
  observed all the prerequisites of the law in that respect.

By this act it will be seen that the scope of the law of 1795 was extended so as to authorize
the National Government to use not only the militia, but the Army and Navy of the United States,
in "causing the laws to be duly executed."

The important provision of the acts of 1792, 1795, and 1807, modified in its terms from time
to time to adapt it to the existing emergency, remained in force until, by an act approved
by President Lincoln July 29, 1861, it was reenacted substantially in the same language in
which it is now found in the Revised Statutes, viz:

  SEC. 5298.

This ancient and fundamental law has been in force from the foundation of the Government. It
is now proposed to abrogate it on certain days and at certain places. In my judgment no fact
has been produced which tends to show that it ought to be repealed or suspended for a single
hour at any place in any of the States or Territories of the Union. All the teachings of experience
in the course of our history are in favor of sustaining its efficiency unimpaired. On every
occasion when the supremacy of the Constitution has been resisted and the perpetuity of our
institutions imperiled the principle of this statute, enacted by the fathers, has enabled the
Government of the Union to maintain its authority and to preserve the integrity of the nation. 

A VISION.---- to tell of deeds Above heroic.

MILTON. M. DCC. XCI.

THE EULOGIES OF HOWARD It was my chance to be conversing with a Friend
of the benevolent and indefatigable HOWARD, when our country was first
afflicted with the public intelligence of his death.

After our first expression of surprize and sorrow, we naturally fell
into serious and affectionate reflections on the gentle character
and sublime pursuits of the deceased.

On these articles we had no difference of opinion; but in the course of our conversation a point
arose, on which our sentiments were directly opposite, though we were equally sincere and ardent in our
regret and veneration for the departed Worthy, to whom it related. I happened
to speak of the public honours that, I hoped, a grateful, a generous,
a magnificent Nation would render to his memory.

My companion immediately exclaimed, "that every ostentatious memorial, to commemorate the virtues
of his friend, would be inconsistent with the meekness and simplicity of the man; that all, who
had the happiness of knowing HOWARD, must recollect with what genuine modesty he had ever retired
from the enthusiastic admiration of those, who had hoped to gratify his ambition by undeserved
applause; that he had really sought no reward but in the approbation of his conscience and his GOD;
that the British Nation, however eminent for genius and munificence, could not devise any posthumous
honours, or raise any monument, truly worthy of HOWARD, except in
adopting and accomplishing those benevolent projects which his philanthropy
and experience had recommended to public attention for the benefit of mankind."
I readily admitted the singular and unquestionable modesty of the deceased.--
I allowed that the noblest tribute of respect, which the world could render
to so pure a spirit, would be to realize his ideas; but I contended,
that other honours are still due to his name; that it is the duty
and the interest of mankind to commemorate his character with the
fondest veneration. I reminded my companion, that although we were
sincerely convinced that no human mind, engaged in great designs,
could be more truly modest than that of HOWARD; yet we had particular
reason to recollect, that he was not insensible to praise.

He had once imparted to us his feelings on that subject with a frank and tender simplicity, highly graceful
in an upright and magnanimous being, conscious of no sentiment that he could wish to conceal.
Indeed, a sincere and ardent passion for virtue could hardly subsist with a disdain of true glory,
which is nothing more than the proper testimony of intelligent and honed admiration to the existence
of merit: nor is it reasonable to suppose that the fondest expressions of remembrance from a
world, which he has served and enlightened, can be displeasing to the
spirit of "a just man made perfect;" since we are taught by Religion,
that the gratitude of mankind is acceptable even to GOD.

I endeavoured to convince my companion, that, as the Publick had seen in HOWARD a person who
reflected more genuine honour on our country than any of her Philosophers, her Poets, her Orators,
her Heroes, or Divines, it is incumbent on the Nation to consult her own glory by commemorating, in
the fullest manner, his beneficent exertions, and by establishing the dignity of his unrivaled virtue.
My arguments, and my zeal, made some impression on the mind of my antagonist; and sunk so
deeply into my own, that on my retiring to rest they gave rise to the following vision. I was suddenly
transported to the confines of a region, which astonished me by its loveliness and extent; it
was called, The Paradise of true Glory. As I approached the entrance, my eyes were delightfully
fascinated by two beings of human form, who presided over the portal. Their names were Genius and Sensibility:--
it was their office to gratify with a view of this Paradise every mortal that revered them sincerely;
and to reject only such intruders as presumed to treat either the one or the other with the
insolence of disdain, or the coldness of contempt: an incident that
I should have thought impossible, from the transcendent beauty which
is visible in each; but, to my surprize, they informed me it very
frequently happened.

As I readily paid them the unsuspected homage of my soul, I was graciously permitted to pass the
gate.-- Immediately as I entered, I was saluted with a seraphic smile,
by two benignant and inseparable Spirits: these were Gratitude and
Admiration, the joint rulers of the dominion-- "You are welcome,"
said the first, in a tone of angelic tenderness-- "You are welcome
to a scene utterly new to your senses, and in harmony with your heart:
you delight in the praises of the deserving: and you are now wafted
to a spot, where those who have merited highly of mankind are praised
in proportion to their desert, and where the praise of exalted merit
is fondly listened to by an extensive human audience, here purified
by our supernatural agency from all the low and little jealousies
of the earth."

I had hardly answered this pleasing information by a grateful obeisance
to my radiant informer, when I perceived, in a gorgeous prospect that
now opened before us, three structures of stupendous size and superior
magnificence.

The first was situated in a grove of olives, and appeared to me like an ancient temple of Attica,
remarkable for massive strength, and a sober dignity-- the second was less solid, but richer
in decoration; and seemed to be almost surrounded by every tree and plant on which Nature has bestowed
any salutary virtue: the third was shaded only by palms; the form of
it was so wonderfully grand and aweful, that it struck me as a sanctuary
for every pure and devout spirit from all the nations of the globe.
"These structures, that you survey with astonishment," said one of
my benevolent conductors, "are devoted to what you mortals denominate
the three liberal professions, Law, Medicine, and Theology.

Whoever has a claim to distinguished honour from any one of the three, has a just encomium pronounced
upon his services by the temporary President of that particular fabrick, in which he is entitled
to such grateful remembrance." "Alas!" I replied, with a murmur that I could not suppress, "the Man
whose well-deserved praises I most anxiously expected to hear in this region, belonged not to any
one of these eminent classes in human life-- he had no profession but that of Humanity." "Be patient,"
said the sweetest of my aetherial guides, with a rebuke that was softened by a smile of indulgence!
"Let not your zeal for the honour of an individual, however meritorious, make you unjust, or
insensible, to the merit of others! Assume the temper of this region,
where praise is distributed by equity and affection, but where prejudice
and partiality are not allowed to intrude!-- Let us advance," continued
my monitor, with an encouraging movement of her hand; "it is time
that I should lead you to the nearest assembly."

I obeyed with reverential silence; and as I passed the vestibule of the majestic edifice, my heart
panted with an aweful expectation of beholding the shades of Solon, Lycurgus, and other departed Legislators,
from the various nations of the world.

I was chearfully surprized by a very different spectacle. The capacious
structure was filled with a concourse of living mortals, lively,
yet respectable in their appearance, evidently belonging to many countries;
but all, as I perceived by their habits, connected with the Law. Throughout
all the multitude I heard no sound of dissention or debate: but over
all there reigned an air of intelligence and sympathy, while all were
hushed in silent expectance, and eager attention, with their eyes
directed to an elevated tribunal:-- On this a personage was sitting,
whose majestic figure I immediately recollected.

His countenance is marked with that austerity and grandeur, which are the external characteristicks
of Law herself. His heart, as those who know it ultimately declare, expresses the tender and beneficent
influence of that Power, who is the acknowledged parent of security and comfort. With a voice that pervaded
the most distant recesses of the extensive dome, and in tones that sunk deep into the bosom of every
auditor, he pronounced the following oration: "After passing many years of life in the painful investigation
of human offences, it is with peculiar satisfaction that I find myself commissioned to commemorate,
in this Assembly, a character of virtue without example-- a character,
at once so meek and so sublime, that, if a feeling spirit had been
poisoned with misanthropy from too close a contemplation of mortal
crimes, this character alone might serve as an antidote to the word
of mental distempers, and awaken the most callous and sarcastic mind
to confess the dignity of our Nature, and the beneficence of our God.

In stating to you the merits of HOWARD, I might expatiate with delight on the various qualities
of this incomparable man; I might trace his progress through the different periods of a life always
singular and always instructive. I could not be checked by any fear of overstepping the modesty
of Truth in the celebration of Virtue, so solid and so extensive, that the malevolence of Envy could
not diminish its weight, the fondness of Enthusiasm could not amplify its effects. But I must not
forget that there are professional limits to my discourse.

It is incumbent on me to confine myself to a single object, and to dwell only on those public
services, that peculiarly endear the name of Howard to the liberal
and enlightened community in which I have the honour to preside."
It was in the capacity of a Minister to Justice, that the pure spirit,
whom it is my glory to praise, first conceived the idea of those unrivaled
labours that have rendered his memory a treasure to mankind.

In discharging a temporary office, that exposed to him the condition
of criminals, he was led to meditate on the evils which had grievously
contaminated the operations of Justice.

  
  
  He perceived that Law herself, like one of her most illustrious
  Delegates (I mean the immortal Bacon), was grossly injured by the
  secret and sordid enormities of her menial servants: that Captivity
  and Coercion, those necessary supporters of her power, instead
  of producing good, often gave birth to mischiefs more
  flagrant, and more fatal, than those which they were employed
  to correct. He found, even in the prisons of his own humane
  and enlightened country, an accumulation of the most hideous abuses:
  he found them not nurseries of penitence and amendment, but schools
  of vice and impiety; or dens of filth, famine, and disease: not the
seats of just and salutary correction and punishment, but the strong
holds of cruelty and extortion.

The irons of the prisoner, which he only beheld, entered into his soul, and awakened unextinguishable
energy in a spirit, of which companion and fortitude were the divine characteristicks. In the noble
emotions of pity for the oppressed, and of zeal for the honour and interest of civilized society,
he conceived perhaps the sublimest design that ever occupied and
exalted the mind of man, the design to search and to purify the polluted
stream of Penal Justice, not only throughout his own country, but
through the various nations of the world.

How low, how little, are the grandest enterprizes of Heroic Ambition, when compared with this
magnanimous pursuit! How frivolous and vain are the highest aims of Fancy and Science, when
contrasted with a purpose so beneficently great! But, marvellous as the magnitude of HOWARD'S
enterprise appears, on the slightest view that magnitude becomes doubly striking, when we contemplate
at the same time the many circumstances that might either allure or deter him from the prosecution
of his idea. Consider him as a private gentleman, possessed of ease and independence, accustomed
to employ and amuse his mind in retired study and philosophical speculation; arrived at that
period of life, when the springs of activity and enterprize in the human frame have begun to
lose their force! consider that his health, even in youth, had appeared unequal to common fatigue! his
stature low! his deportment humble! his voice almost effeminate! Such was the wonderful being, who
relinquished the retirement, the tranquillity, the comforts, that he loved and enjoyed, to embark
in labours at which the most hardy might tremble; to plunge in perils from which the most resolute
might recede without a diminution of honour. Under all these apparent disadvantages, unsummoned, unauthorized
by any Prince, unexcited by any popular invitation, he resolved to investigate all the abuses
of imprisonment; to visit the abodes of wretchedness and infection;
and to prove himself the friend of the friendless, in every country
that the limits of his advanced life would allow him to examine.

Against such an enterprize, projected by such an individual, what forcible arguments might be
urged, not only by every selfish passion, but even by that prudence, and that reason, which are allowed
to regulate an elevated mind! How plausibly did Friendship exclaim to Howard,'Your projects are
unquestionably noble; but they are above the execution of any individual: you are unarmed with authority;
you have the wish to do great good, but the power of doing little! Consider the probable issue
of the undertaking!-- You will see a few hapless wretches, and tell their condition to the inattentive
world; perhaps perish yourself from contagion, before you have time to tell it; and leave your
afflicted friends to lament your untimely fate, and the ungrateful Publick to deride your temerity!'What
force of intellect, what dignity of soul were required to prevent a mortal from yielding to
remonstrances so engaging! The divine energy of Genius and of Virtue enabled HOWARD to foresee,
that the sanctity of his pursuit would supply him with strength and
powers far superior to all human authority:-- His piercing mind comprehended
that there are enormities of such a nature, that to survey and to
reveal them is to effect their correction.-- He felt that his sincere
compassion for the oppressed, and his ardent desire to promote perfect
justice, would serve him as a perpetual antidote against the poison
of fear.-- He felt that in the darkness of dungeons he should want
no associates, no guards to defend him against the outrages of detected
extortion, or suspicious brutality.-- He felt, that as his purpose
was heavenly, the powers of Heaven would be displayed in his support;
that iniquity and oppression would not dare to lift a hand against
him, though they knew it was the business of his life to annihilate
their sway in their most secret dominion.

How admirably did the progress of his travels evince and justify the pure and enlightened confidence
of his spirit! All dangers, all difficulties, vanish before his gentleness, his regularity, his perseverance.
Insolence and ferocity seem to turn, at his approach, into docility and respect. Every hardship he
endures, every step he advances, in his wide and laborious career of Beneficence, instead of impairing
his strength, invigorates his frame; instead of diminishing his influence, increases the utility of
his conduct, by making the world acquainted with the sanctity of
his character.

Witness, ye various regions of the earth! with what surprize, delight, and veneration, ye beheld
an unarmed, and unassuming traveller instructing you in the sublime
science of mitigating human misery, and giving you a matchless example
of tenderness and magnanimity!

  O, England! thou generous country! ever enamoured of glory, contemplate
in this, the most perfect of thy illustrious sons; contemplate those
virtues, and that honour, in which thy parental spirit may most happily
exult!-- What spectacle can be more flattering to thy native, thy
honest pride, than to behold the proudest potentates of distant nations
listening with pleasure to a private Englishman; and learning, from
his researches, how to relieve the most injured of their subjects!
how to abolish the enormities of perverted Justice!

To form a complete account of the good arising to the world from the life and labours of Howard,
would be a task beyond the limits of any human mind: an exact statement of the benefits he has
conferred upon society, could be rendered only by the attendant Spirit whom Providence commissioned
to watch over him, and who might discern, by the powers of supernatural vision, what pregnant sources
of public calamity he crushed in the seed, and what future virtues, in various individuals, he may
draw into the service of mankind by the attraction of his example. "Of good, more immediately visible,
which his exertions produced, there is abundant evidence in his own country. In the wide
circle of his foreign excursion, what nation, what city, does not
bear some conspicuous traces of his intrepid and indefatigable beneficence!

Of the astonishing length to which his zeal and perseverance extended, we have the most ingenuous
and satisfactory narration in those singularly meritorious volumes which he has given to the world.
In these we behold the minute detail of labours to which there is nothing similar, or second,
in the history of public virtue; and for which there could be no adequate reward but in the beatitude
of Heaven. An eloquent Enthusiast, whose genius was nearly allied to frenzy, has expressed a desire to present
himself before the tribunal of the Almighty Judge, with a volume in his hand, in which he had
recorded his own thoughts and actions: if such an idea could be suitable to the littleness of
man, if it could become any mortal of faculties so limited to make
such an offering to the great Fountain of all intelligence, that mortal
must assuredly be Howard: for where could we find another individual,
not professedly inspired, who might present to his Maker a record
of labours so eminently directed by Piety and Virtue! a book, addressed
to mankind, without insulting their weakness, or flattering their
passions! a book, whose great object was to benefit the world, without
seeking from it any kind of reward! a book, in which the genuine modesty
of the Writer is equal to his unexampled beneficence!

The mind of Howard was singularly and sublimely free from the common and dangerous passion for applause: that
passion which, though taken altogether, it is certainly beneficial to the interests of mankind,
yet frequently communicates inquietude and unsteadiness to the pursuits of Genius and Virtue.
As human praise was never the object of his ambition, so he has nobly soared above it. There
appear, in different ages upon the Earth, certain elevated spirits, who, by the sublimity of
their conceptions, and the magnanimity of their conduct, attain a degree of glory which can
never be reached by the keenest followers of Fame-- They seek not panegyricks; and panegyricks can
add nothing to their honour.

The Eulogies have perished which were devoted by the luxuriant genius of Tully, and by the laconic spirit
of Brutus, to the public virtue of Cato; yet the name of that illustrious Roman is still powerful in the world,
and excites in every cultivated mind, an animating idea of independent integrity. The name
of Howard has superior force, and a happier effect. It is a sound, at which the strings of humanity
will vibrate with exultation in many millions of hearts. Through the various nations that he visited,
the mere echo of his name will be sufficient to awaken that noblest sensibility, which at once
softens and elevates the soul. Every warm hearted and worthy individual who mentions Howard will
glow with an honest, a generous satisfaction, in feeling himself the fellow-creature of such a
man. Wherever the elegant arts are established, they will contend in raising memorials to his
honour. Indeed, the globe itself may be considered as his Mausoleum; and the inhabitants of
every prison it contains, as groups of living statues that commemorate his virtue. There is no
class of mankind by whom his memory ought not to be cherished, because all are interested in those evils
(so pernicious to society! so dangerous to life!) which he was ever labouring to lessen or exterminate.
It might be wished, that different communities should separately devise some different tribute of
respect to him whose character and conduct is so interesting to all: not for the sake of multiplying
vain and useless offerings to the dead, but to impress with more energy and extent his ennobling
remembrance on the heart and soul of the living. The last clause of the first section is as follows:

  And no part of the money hereby appropriated is appropriated
  to pay any salaries, compensation, fees, or expenses under
  or in virtue of title 26 of the Revised Statutes, or of any
  provision of said title.

Title 26 of the Revised Statutes, referred to in the foregoing clause, relates to the elective
franchise, and contains the laws now in force regulating the Congressional elections.

The second section of the bill reaches much further. It is as follows:

  SEC. 2. That the sums appropriated in this act for the persons
  and public service embraced in its provisions are in full for
  such persons and public service for the fiscal year ending
  June 30, 1880; and no Department or officer of the Government
  shall during said fiscal year make any contract or incur any
  liability for the future payment of money under any of the
  provisions of title 26 of the Revised Statutes of the United
  States authorizing the appointment or payment of general
  or special deputy marshals for service in connection with
  elections or on election day until an appropriation sufficient
  to meet such contract or pay such liability shall have first
  been made by law.

This section of the bill is intended to make an extensive and essential change in the existing
laws. The following are the provisions of the statutes on the same subject which are now in force:

  SEC.

  SEC.

The object of these sections of the Revised Statutes is plain. It is, first, to prevent any
money from being expended unless appropriations have been made therefor, and, second, to prevent
the Government from being bound by any contract not previously authorized by law, except for
certain necessary purposes in the War and Navy Departments.

Under the existing laws the failure of Congress to make the appropriations required for the
execution of the provisions of the election laws would not prevent their enforcement. The right
and duty to appoint the general and special deputy marshals which they provide for would still
remain, and the executive department of the Government would also be empowered to incur the
requisite liability for their compensation. But the second section of this bill contains a
prohibition not found in any previous legislation. Its design is to render the election laws
inoperative and a dead letter during the next fiscal year.

The President is called upon to give his affirmative approval to positive enactments which
in effect deprive him of the ordinary and necessary means of executing laws still left in the
statute book and embraced within his constitutional duty to see that the laws are executed.
If he approves the bill, and thus gives to such positive enactments the authority of law, he
participates in the curtailment of his means of seeing that the law is faithfully executed,
while the obligation of the law and of his constitutional duty remains unimpaired.

The appointment of special deputy marshals is not made by the statute a spontaneous act of
authority on the part of any executive or judicial officer of the Government, but is accorded
as a popular right of the citizens to call into operation this agency for securing the purity
and freedom of elections in any city or town having 20,000 inhabitants or upward. Section 2021
of the Revised Statutes puts it in the power of any two citizens of such city or town to require
of the marshal of the district the appointment of these special deputy marshals. Thereupon
the duty of the marshal becomes imperative, and its nonperformance would expose him to judicial
mandate or punishment or to removal from office by the President, as the circumstances of his
conduct might require. The bill now before me neither revokes this popular right of the citizens,
nor relieves the marshal of the duty imposed by law, nor the President of his duty to see that
this law is faithfully executed.

I forbear to enter again upon any general discussion of the wisdom and necessity of the election
laws or of the dangerous and unconstitutional principle of this bill--that the power vested
in Congress to originate appropriations involves the right to compel the Executive to approve
any legislation which Congress may see fit to attach to such bills, under the penalty of refusing
the means needed to carry on essential functions of the Government. My views on these subjects
have been sufficiently presented in the special messages sent by me to the House of Representatives
during their present session. What was said in those messages I regard as conclusive as to
my duty in respect to the bill before me. The arguments urged in those communications against
the repeal of the election laws and against the right of Congress to deprive the Executive
of that separate and independent discretion and judgment which the Constitution confers and
requires are equally cogent in opposition to this bill. This measure leaves the powers and
duties of the supervisors of elections untouched. The compensation of those officers is provided
for under permanent laws, and no liability for which an appropriation is now required would
therefore be incurred by their appointment. But the power of the National Government to protect
them in the discharge of their duty at the polls would be taken away. The States may employ
both civil and military power at the elections, but by this bill even the civil authority to
protect Congressional elections is denied to the United States. The object is to prevent any
adequate control by the United States over the national elections by forbidding the payment
of deputy marshals, the officers who are clothed with authority to enforce the election laws.

The fact that these laws are deemed objectionable by a majority of both Houses of Congress
is urged as a sufficient warrant for this legislation.

There are two lawful ways to overturn legislative enactments. One is their repeal; the other
is the decision of a competent tribunal against their validity. The effect of this bill is
to deprive the executive department of the Government of the means to execute laws which are
not repealed, which have not been declared invalid, and which it is therefore the duty of the
executive and of every other department of Government to obey and to enforce.

I have in my former message on this subject expressed a willingness to concur in suitable amendments
for the improvement of the election laws; but I can not consent to their absolute and entire
repeal, and I can not approve legislation which seeks to prevent their enforcement.

RUTHERFORD B. HAYES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, June 27, 1879.

To the Senate of the United States:

I return without approval Senate bill No. 595,[28] with the following objection to its becoming
a law:

Doubts have arisen upon consideration of the bill as to whether Major Collins will be required
under it to refund to the United States the pay and allowances received by him at the time
he was mustered out of the service. Believing that it was not the intention of Congress to
require such repayment, the bill is returned without my signature to the House in which it
originated.

R.B. HAYES.

[Footnote 28: "An act to amend 'An act for the relief of Joseph B. Collins, approved March
3, 1879.'"]

EXECUTIVE MANSION, June 30, 1879. The offices thus provided for are essential to the faithful
execution of the laws. They were created and their powers and duties defined by Congress at
its first session after the adoption of the Constitution in the judiciary act which was approved
September 24, 1789. Their general duties, as defined in the act which originally established
them, were substantially the same as those prescribed in the statutes now in force.

The principal provision on the subject in the Revised Statutes is as follows:

  SEC. 787. It shall be the duty of the marshal of each district
  to attend the district and circuit courts when sitting
  therein, and to execute throughout the district all lawful
  precepts directed to him and issued under the authority of
  the United States; and he shall have power to command all
  necessary assistance in the execution of his duty.

The original act was amended February 28, 1795, and the amendment is now found in the Revised
Statutes in the following form:

  SEC. 788. The marshals and their deputies shall have in each
  State the same powers in executing the laws of the United
  States as the sheriffs and their deputies in such State may
  have by law in executing the laws thereof.

By subsequent statutes additional duties have been from time to time imposed upon the marshals
and their deputies, the due and regular performance of which are required for the efficiency
of almost every branch of the public service. Without these officers there would be no means
of executing the warrants, decrees, or other process of the courts, and the judicial system
of the country would be fatally defective. The criminal jurisdiction of the courts of the United
States is very extensive. Allow me, therefore, to recall to your thoughts those distant ages, when
every ardent spirit in Christendom was inflamed with a passionate desire to deliver the Christian
pilgrims of Palestine from the oppression of Infidels! Figure to yourselves the whole force
of Europe collecting its violence, like a troubled sea, and preparing to pour a terrific and destructive
inundation over the Holy Land! Behold the strong and the weak, the ambitious and the humble, pursuing
the same object! Behold assembled Kings and their People, Soldiers and Priests, the servants
of Earth and Heaven rushing, with equal ardour, to rescue the Sepulchre of Christ, and to
drown all the innumerable enemies of their Faith in an universal deluge of blood! In this scene
we have the sublimest spectacle, perhaps, that was ever exhibited by mistaken piety and misguided
valour. The love of God, by which this heroic multitude was professedly impelled, was probably
in many minds as sincere as it was ardent. The religious spirit of their enterprize can still
animate and transport us in the song of the Poet: and in the more rational page of History,
while we justly lament the errors of their devotion, we admire the force and perseverance of their
courage.

"To the sublime fortitude of these collected warriors, let us compare the mild magnanimity of HOWARD.
Let us survey him setting forth for an expedition as perilous as theirs; not as the Soldier
of Fanaticism, but as the Pilgrim of Humanity! Attachment to GOD, and resolution which no hardship,
no danger, no difficulty can daunt, are equally conspicuous in the sanguinary Fanatic and the
compassionate Philanthropist: but how widely different are the prime earthly objects of their
pursuits! The fierce Crusaders invaded Asia with a desire to exterminate the Infidels. The benevolent
HOWARD was led into the same quarter of the globe, and into perils more deadly than those of
war, by a wish to exterminate, or rather to restrain, the ravages of that terrific enemy to
human life, the Plague."

He had conceived an idea, that, as this most alarming of mortal maladies has been often strangely
neglected by the sluggish and superstitious inhabitants of the East,
it might be possible by a calm and courageous examination of its nature
and its progress, to set limits to its rage; and particularly to secure
his own country from a future visitation of a calamity, against which
the fearless and eager spirit of Commerce appears not to have established
a sufficient precaution.

Upon a reconsideration in the House of Representatives of the bill which contained these provisions
it lacked a constitutional majority, and therefore failed to become a law. In order to secure
its enactment, the same measure is again presented for my approval, coupled in the bill before
me with appropriations for the support of marshals and their deputies during the next fiscal
year. The object, manifestly, is to place before the Executive this alternative: Either to
allow necessary functions of the public service to be crippled or suspended for want of the
appropriations required to keep them in operation, or to approve legislation which in official
communications to Congress he has declared would be a violation of his constitutional duty.
Thus in this bill the principle is clearly embodied that by virtue of the provision of the
Constitution which requires that "all bills for raising revenue shall originate in the House
of Representatives" a bare majority of the House of Representatives has the right to withhold
appropriations for the support of the Government unless the Executive consents to approve any
legislation which may be attached to appropriation bills. Endicott petitioned for a new hearing. Another
commission was appointed; and their report was accepted in May, 1682. It was more unfavorable
to Endicott than the previous one. He protested against the judgment of the court in earnest but
respectful language, and petitioned for still another hearing. They again complied with his
request, and appointed a day for once more examining the case; but,
when the day came, Nov. 24, 1683, he was sick in bed, and the case
was settled irrevocably against him.

The map gives the lines of the Bishop farm as finally settled by the
General Court.

It will be noticed,
  that it is laid
    directly across the Governor's Plain, and runs far into the Orchard
Farm "up to the rocks near Endicott's dwelling-house," or, as it is
otherwise stated, "within a few rods of Guppy's ditch, near to" the
said house.

It may be said to have been a necessity, as the original three hundred
acres of the grant to Townsend Bishop had to be made up.

It could not go north; for Houlton and Ingersol stood upon the Weston
grant, and Hutchinson and Nathaniel Putnam stood upon Stileman's grants,
to push it back.

It could not go west or south-west, for there Swinnerton stood to fend off upon his grants; and there,
too, was Nathaniel Putnam, upon his own grant, and lands he had purchased of another original
grantee.

It could not be swung round to the south without jamming up the lands of Felton and others,
or pushing them over the grants, made to Robert Cole-- under which Downing had purchased-- and
to Thomas Read. All these parties were combined to force it south-eastwardly over the grounds
of Endicott. Nathaniel Putnam was his most fatal antagonist. I want you to be perfectly independent of mere influence from any quarter.
Neither my recommendation, nor that of Secretary Sherman, nor of any member of Congress or
other influential person must be specially regarded. Let appointments and removals be made
on business principles and according to rules. There must be, I assume, a few places filled
by those you personally know to be trustworthy, but restrict the area of patronage to the narrowest
limits. Let no man be put out merely because he is a friend to Mr. Arthur, and no man put in
merely because he is our friend. The good of the service should be the sole end in view. The
best means yet presented, it seems to me, are the rules recommended by the Civil Service Commission.
I shall issue no new order on the subject at present. I am glad you approve of the message,
and I wish you to see that all that is expressed or implied in it is faithfully carried out.

Again congratulating you, and assuring you of my entire confidence, I remain, sincerely,

R.B. HAYES.

Regulations to Prevent the Introduction of the "Plague" into the United States.

TREASURY DEPARTMENT,
  OFFICE OF THE SURGEON-GENERAL,
    UNITED STATES MARINE HOSPITAL SERVICE,

Washington, D.C., March 3, 1879.

Attention has been called to the prevalence of a dangerous epidemic disease in southern Russia
known as the "plague," and its extremely virulent and contagious character, as manifested in
the late outbreak, leaves no doubt that it is similar to, if not identical with, the "plague"
which devastated the Old World in past centuries. Thus horribly doth Satan endeavor to have his kingdom
and administrations to resemble those of our Lord Jesus Christ.

8.

Some of the most sober afflicted persons, when they were well, did affirm the spectres of such
and such as they did complain of in their fits did appear to them, and could relate what passed betwixt
them and the apparitions, after their fits were over, and give account after what manner they were
hurt by them.

9. Several of the accused would neither in time of examination nor trial confess any thing of what
was laid to their charge: some would not admit of any minister to pray with them, others refused
to pray for themselves.

It was said by some of the confessing witches, that such as have received the Devil-sacrament can never
confess: only one woman condemned, after the death-warrant was signed,
freely confessed, which occasioned her reprieval for some time; and
it was observable this woman had one lock of hair of a very great
length, viz., four foot and seven inches long by measure.

This lock was of a
  different color from all the rest, which was short and gray.

It grew on the hinder part of her head, and was matted together like
an elf-lock.

The Court ordered it to be cut off, to which she was very unwilling,
and said she was told if it were cut off she should die or be sick;
yet the Court ordered it so to be.

  

10. A person who had
  been frequently transported to and fro by the devils for the space
of near two years, was struck dumb for about nine months of that time;
yet he, after that, had his speech restored to him, and did depose
upon oath, that, in the time while he was dumb, he was many times
bodily transported to places where the witches were gathered together,
and that he there saw feasting and dancing; and, being struck on the
back or shoulder, was thereby made fast to the place, and could only
see and hear at a distance.

He did take his oath that he did, with his bodily eyes, see some of the accused at those witch-meetings
several times. I was present in court when he gave his testimony. He also proved by sundry persons,
that, at those times of transport, he was bodily absent from his abode, and could nowhere be found,
but being met with by some on the road, at a distance from his home, was suddenly conveyed away
from them.

11. The afflicted persons related that the spectres of several eminent persons had been brought
in amongst the rest; but, as the sufferers said the Devil could not
hurt them in their shapes, but two witches seemed to take them by
each hand, and lead them or force them to come in.

12. Whiles a godly man was at prayer with a woman afflicted, the daughter of that woman (being
a sufferer in the like kind) affirmed that she saw two of the persons accused at prayer to the
Devil.

13.

It was proved by substantial evidences against one person accused, that he had such an unusual strength
(though a very little man), that he could hold out a gun with one hand behind the lock, which was
near seven foot in the barrel, being as much as a lusty man could command with both hands after
the usual manner of shooting. It was also proved, that he lifted barrels of meat and barrels
of molasses out of a canoe alone, and that putting his fingers into a barrel of molasses (full
within a finger's length according to custom) he carried it several paces; and that he put his finger
into the muzzle of a gun which was more than five foot in the barrel, and lifted up the butt-end
thereof, lock, stock, and all, without any visible help to raise it. It was also testified, that,
being abroad with his wife and his wife's brother, he occasionally
staid behind, letting his wife and her brother walk forward; but,
suddenly coming up with them, he was angry with his wife for what
discourse had passed betwixt her and her brother: they wondering how
he should know it, he said, "I know your thoughts;" at which expression,
they, being amazed, asked him how he could do that; he said, "My God,
whom I serve, makes known your thoughts to me."

I was present when these things were testified against him, and observed that he could not make
any plea for himself (in these things) that had any weight: he had
the liberty of challenging his jurors before empanelling, according
to the statute in that case, and used his liberty in challenging many;
yet the jury that were sworn brought him in guilty.

14. The magistrates privately examined a child of four or five years of age, mentioned in the
remarks of the afflicted, sect.

11: [p. 530] and the child told them it had a little snake which used to suck on the lowest
joint of its forefinger; and, when they (inquiring where) pointed to other places, it told them
not there but here, pointing on the lowest joint of the forefinger, where they observed a deep
red spot about the bigness of a flea-bite. They asked it who gave it that snake, whether the
black man gave it: the child said no, its mother gave it. I heard this child examined by the
magistrates.

15. It was proved by sundry testimonies against some of the accused, that, upon their malicious imprecations,
wishes, or threatenings, many observable deaths and diseases, with many other odd inconveniences,
have happened to cattle and other estate of such as were so threatened by them, and some to
the persons of men and women.

REMARKABLE THINGS CONFESSED BY SOME SUSPECTED OF BEING GUILTY OF
WITCHCRAFT.

1.

It pleased God, for the clearer discovery of those mysteries of the kingdom of darkness, so to
dispose, that several persons, men, women, and children, did confess their hellish deeds,
as followeth:-- 2.

They confessed against themselves that they were witches, told how long they had been so, and
how it came about that the Devil appeared to them; viz., sometimes upon discontent at their mean
condition in the world, sometimes about fine clothes, sometimes for
the gratifying other carnal and sensual lusts.

Satan then, upon his appearing to them, made them fair (though false) promises, that, if they
would yield to him, and sign his book, their desires should be answered to the uttermost, whereupon
they signed it; and thus the accursed confederacy was confirmed betwixt them and the Prince
of Darkness.

3. Some did affirm that there were some hundreds of the society of witches, considerable companies
of whom were affirmed to muster in arms by beat of drum. In time of examinations and trials,
they declared that such a man was wont to call them together from all quarters to witch-meetings
with the sound of a diabolical trumpet.

4. Being brought to see the prisoners at the bar upon their trials, they did affirm in open court
(I was then present), that they had oftentimes seen them at witch-meetings, where was feasting, dancing,
and jollity, as also at Devil-sacraments; and particularly that they
saw such a man---- amongst the rest of the cursed crew, and affirmed
that he did administer the sacrament of Satan to them, encouraging
them to go on in their way, and they should certainly prevail.

They said also that such a woman---- was a deacon, and served in distributing the diabolical elements:
they affirmed that there were great numbers of the witches.

5. They affirmed that many of those wretched souls had been baptized at Newbury Falls, and at
several other rivers and ponds; and, as to the manner of administration,
the great Officer of Hell took them up by the body, and, putting their
heads into the water, said over them, "Thou art mine, I have full
power over thee:" and thereupon they engaged and covenanted to renounce
God, Christ, their sacred baptism, and the whole way of Gospel salvation,
and to use their utmost endeavors to oppose the kingdom of Christ,
and to set up and advance the kingdom of Satan.

6.

Some, after they had confessed, were very penitent, and did wring their hands, and manifest
a distressing sense of what they had done, and were by the mercies of God recovered out of those
snares of the kingdom of darkness.

7. Several have confessed against their own mothers, that they were instruments to bring them
into the Devil's covenant, to the undoing of them, body and soul;
and some girls of eight or nine years of age did declare, that, after
they were so betrayed by their mothers to the power of Satan, they
saw the Devil go in their own shapes to afflict others.

8. Some of those that confessed were immediately afflicted at a dreadful rate, after the same manner
with the other sufferers.

9. Some of them confessed, that they did afflict the sufferers according to the time and manner
they were accused thereof; and, being asked what they did to afflict them, some said that they
pricked pins into poppets made with rags, wax, and other materials: one that confessed after the signing
the death-warrant said she used to afflict them by clutching and pinching her hands together,
and wishing in what part and after what manner she would have them
afflicted, and it was done.

10.
They confessed the design was laid by this witchcraft to root out the interest of Christ in
New England, and that they began at the Village in order to settling
the kingdom of darkness and the powers thereof; declaring that such
a man---- was to be head conjurer, and for his activity in that affair
was to be crowned king of hell, and that such a woman---- was to
be queen of hell.

Thus I have given my reader a brief and true account of those fearful and amazing operations
and intrigues of the Prince of Darkness: and I must call them so; for, let some persons be
as incredulous as they please about the powerful and malicious influence of evil angels upon
the minds and bodies of mankind, sure I am none that observed those things above mentioned could
refer them to any other head than the sovereign permission of the holy God, and the malicious
operations of his and our implacable enemy. I have here related nothing more than what was acknowledged
to be true by the judges that sat on the bench, and other credible
persons there, which I have without prejudice or partiality represented.

I therefore close all with my uncessant prayers, that the great and
everlasting Jehovah would, for the sake of his blessed Son, our most
glorious intercessor, rebuke Satan, and so vanquish him, from time
to time, that his power may be more and more every day suppressed,
his kingdom destroyed; and that all his malicious and accursed instruments
in those spiritual wickednesses may gnash their teeth, melt away,
and be ashamed in their secret places, till they come to be judged
and condemned unto the place of everlasting burnings prepared for
the Devil and his angels, that they may there be tormented with him
for ever and ever.

III. LETTER FROM R. P. TO JONATHAN CORWIN. SALISBURY, Aug. 9, 1692. HONORED SIR,-- According
as in my former to you I hinted that I held myself obliged to give you some farther account of
my rude though solemn thoughts of that great case now before you, the happy management whereof
do so much conduce to the glory of God, the safety and tranquillity of the country, besides what
I have said in my former and the enclosed, I further humbly present to consideration the doubtfulness
and unsafety of admitting spectre testimony against the life of any that are of blameless conversation,
and plead innocent, from the uncertainty of them and the incredulity
of them; for as for diabolical visions, apparitions, or representations,
they are more commonly false and delusive than real, and cannot be
known when they are real and when feigned, but by the Devil's report;
and then not to be believed, because he is the father of lies.

1.

Either the organ of the eye is abused and the senses deluded, so
as to think they do see or hear some thing or person, when indeed
they do not, and this is frequent with common jugglers.

2.

The Devil himself appears in the shape and likeness of a person or thing, when it is not the person
or thing itself; so he did in the shape of Samuel. 3. And sometimes persons or things themselves
do really appear, but how it is possible for any one to give a true testimony, which possibly did see
neither shape nor person, but were deluded; and if they did see any thing, they know not whether
it was the person or but his shape. All that can be rationally or truly said in such a case is
this,-- that I did see the shape or likeness of such a person, if my senses or eyesight were not
deluded: and they can honestly say no more, because they know no more (except
the Devil tells them more); and if he do, they can but say he told
them so. But the matter is still incredible: first, because it is but
their saying the Devil told them so; if he did so tell them, yet
the verity of the thing remains still unproved, because the Devil
was a liar and a murtherer (John viii.

44), and may tell these lies to murder an innocent person. But this case seems to be solved by an assertion
of some, that affirm that the Devil do not or cannot appear in the
shape of a godly person, to do hurt: others affirm the contrary, and
say that he can and often have so done, of which they give many instances
for proof of what they say; which if granted, the case remains yet
unsolved, and yet the very hinge upon which that weighty case depends.

To which I humbly say: First, That I do lament that such a point should be so needful to be determined,
which seems not probable, if possible, to be determined to infallible
satisfaction for want of clear Scripture to decide it by, though very
rational to be believed according to rules; as, for instance, if divers
examples are alleged of the shape of persons that have been seen,
of whom there is ample testimony that they lived and died in the faith,
yet, saith the objecter,'tis possible they may be hypocrites, therefore
the proof not infallible: and as it may admit of such an objection
against the reasons given on the affirmative, much more may the same
objection be made against the negative, for which they can or do give
no reason at all, nor can a negative be proved (therefore difficult
to be determined to satisfy infallibly); but, seeing it must be discussed,
I humbly offer these few words: First, I humbly conceive that the
saints on earth are not more privileged in that case than the saints
in heaven; but the Devil may appear in the shape of a saint in heaven,
namely, in the shape of Samuel (1 Sam. xxviii.

13, 14); therefore he can or may represent the shape of a saint that is upon the earth. Besides,
there may be innocent persons that are not saints, and their innocency ought to be their security,
as well as godly men's; and I hear nobody question but the Devil may take their shape. Secondly,
It doth not hurt any man or woman to present the shape or likeness of an innocent person, more than
for a limner or carver to draw his picture, and show it, if he do not in that form do some
evil (nor then neither), if the laws of man do not oblige him to suffer for what the Devil doth
in his shape, the laws of God do not. Thirdly, The Devil had power, by God's permission, to take the very
person of our Lord Jesus Christ, in the day or time of his humiliation,
and carry him from place to place, and tempted him with temptations
of horrid blasphemy, and yet left him innocent.

Why may we not suppose the like may be done to a good man?

And why not much more appear in his shape (or make folk think it is his shape, when indeed
it is not), and yet the person be innocent, being far enough off, and not knowing of it, nor would
consent if he had known it, his profession and conversation being otherwise? Fourthly, I suppose'tis
granted by all, that the person of one that is dead cannot appear, because the soul and body
are separated, and so the person is dissolved, and so ceaseth to
be: and it is as certain that the person of the living cannot be in
two places at one time, but he that is at Boston cannot be at Salem
or Cambridge at the same time; but as the malice and envy in the Devil
makes it his business to seek whom he may devour, so no question but
he doth infuse the same quality into those that leave Jesus Christ
to embrace him, that they do envy those that are innocent, and upon
that account be as ready to say and swear that they did see them as
the Devil is to present their shape to them.

Add but this also, that, when they are once under his power, he puts them on headlong (they
must needs go whom the Devil drives, saith the proverb), and the reason is clear,-- because they are
taken captive by him, to do his will. And we see, by woful and undeniable experience, both in the
afflicted persons and the confessors, some of them, that he torments them at his pleasure, to
force them to accuse others. Some are apt to doubt they do but counterfeit; but, poor souls! I am
utterly of another mind, and I lament them with all my heart; but, take which
you please, the case is the same as to the main issue. For, if they
counterfeit, the wickedness is the greater in them, and the less in
the Devil: but if they be compelled to it by the Devil, against their
wills, then the sin is the Devil's, and the sufferings theirs; but
if their testimonies be allowed of, to make persons guilty by, the lives
of innocent persons are alike in danger by them, which is the solemn
consideration that do disquiet the country. Now, that the only wise
God may so direct you in all, that he may have glory, the country
peace and safety, and your hands strengthened in that great work,
is the desire and constant prayer of your humble servant, R. P., who
shall no further trouble you at present.

Position.-- That to put a witch to death is the command of God, and therefore the indispensable
duty of man,-- namely, the magistrate (Ex. xxii. 18); which, granted,
resolves two questions that I have heard made by some:-- First, Whether
there are any such creatures as witches in the world.

Secondly, If there be, whether they can be known to be such by men:
both which must be determined on the affirmative, or else that commandment
were in vain. Position Second.-- That it must be witches that are put
to death, and not innocent persons: "Thou shalt not condemn the innocent
nor the righteous" (Ex. xxiii. 7).

Query.-- Which premised, it brings to this query,-- namely, how a witch may be known to be a
witch. Answer.-- First, By the mouth of two or three witnesses (Deut xix. 15; Matt. xviii. 16;
Deut. xvii. 6). Secondly, They may be known by their own confession, being compos mentis, and not under
horrid temptation to self-murther (2 Sam. xvi.; Josh. vii. 16). Query Second.-- What is it that
those two or three witnesses must swear? Must they swear that such a person is a witch? Will
that do the thing, as is vulgarly supposed?

Answer.--
I think that is too unsafe to go by, as well as hard to be done by the advised: First, because it
would expose the lives of all alike to the pleasure or passion of those
that are minded to take them away; secondly, because that, in such
a testimony, the witnesses are not only informers in matter of fact, but
sole judges of the crime,-- which is the proper work of the judges, and
not of witnesses. Query Third.-- What is it that the witnesses must
testify in the case, to prove one to be a witch? Answer.-- They must
witness the person did put forth some act which, if true, was an act
of witchcraft, or familiarity with the Devil, the witness attest the
fact to be upon his certain knowledge, and the judges to judge that
fact to be such a crime.

Query Fourth.-- What acts are they which must be proved to be committed by a person, that shall
be counted legal proof of witchcraft, or familiarity with the Devil? Answer.-- This I do profess
to be so hard a question, for want of light from the Word of God and laws of men, that I do not
know what to say to it; and therefore humbly conceive, that, in such a difficulty, it may be more safe,
for the present, to let a guilty person live till further discovery, than to
put an innocent person to death.

    First, Because a guilty person may afterward be discovered, and so
    put to death; but an innocent person to be put to death cannot be
brought again to life when once dead.

Secondly, Because secret things belong to God only, but revealed things
to us and to our children. And though it be so difficult sometimes,
yet witches there are, and may be known by some acts or other put forth
by them, that may render them such; for Scripture examples, I can remember
but few in the Old Testament, besides Balaam (Num. xxii. 6, xxxi. 16).
First, The sorcerers of Egypt could not tell the interpretation of
Pharaoh's dream, though he told them his dream (Gen. xli.

8): his successors afterwards had sorcerers, that by enchantments did, first, turn their rods into
serpents (Exod. vii. 11, 12); second, turned water into blood; thirdly, brought frogs upon the land
of Egypt (Exod. viii. 7).

Thirdly, Nebuchadnezzar's magicians said that they would tell him the interpretation, if he would
tell them his dream (Dan. iv.

7); but the king did not believe them (ver. 8, 9).

Fourthly, The Witch of Endor raised the Devil, in the likeness of Samuel, to tell Saul his fortune;
and Saul made use of him accordingly (1 Sam. xxviii. 8, 11-15); and, as for New Testament, I see
very little of that nature.

Our Lord Jesus Christ did cast out many devils, and so did his disciples,
both while he was upon earth and afterward, of which some were dreadfully
circumstanced (Mark ix.

18; Mark v. 2-5); but of witches, we only read of four mentioned
in the apostles'time: first, Simon Magus (Acts viii.

9, 11); secondly, Elymas the sorcerer (Acts xiii. 6, 8); thirdly, the
seven sons of Sceva, a Jew, that were vagabond Jews,-- exorcists
(Acts xix.

13-16); fourthly, the girl which, by a spirit of divination, brought
her master much gain (Acts xvi.

16), whether it were
  by telling fortunes or finding out lost things, as our cunning men
do, is not said; but something it was that was done by that spirit
which was in her, which, being cast out, she could not do.

13. All vacancies that may occur in the higher grades of any department shall be filled by
promotion from the lower grades by means of competitive examinations, to which shall be admitted
as competitors such persons only as are already employed in the division in which the vacancy
exists or in divisions having analogous duties. The questions in these examinations shall be
restricted mainly to matters pertaining to the ordinary business of that department. The examinations
shall be conducted by the general superintendent of the division to which the department is
attached, assisted by such one or more other officers of the same as the postmaster may select;
and they shall report the result to the postmaster in the manner provided in rule 11, and the
vacancy will be filled by the promotion of some one of the three standing highest in the competition.
But whenever the vacancy to be filled by promotion is that of a position requiring the exercise
of administrative authority the board may add such questions as will test the degree to which
the candidates possess special qualifications for such position.

14. For positions as porters the examination will be confined to questions intended to test
the physical ability of the candidates and their proficiency in reading, penmanship, and elementary
arithmetic only.

15. The postmaster reserves from the operation of the above rules for original Appointment
and promotion positions of especial pecuniary trust, as well as those involving confidential
relations, as private secretary, etc.

THOMAS L. JAMES, Postmaster.

Approved. Let these rules go into effect May 1, 1879.

D.M. KEY, Postmaster-General.

APRIL 3, 1879.

The foregoing rules are approved.

R.B. HAYES.

[From the Evening Star, Washington, D.C., May 28, 1879.]

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, May 28, 1879.

To Medical Officers of the Marine-Hospital Service and others whom it may concern:

Official information having been received to the effect that the "plague" which existed in
southern Russia is now almost extinct, the regulations issued March 3, 1879,[38] imposing certain
restrictions upon the importation of rags, etc., into the United States, are hereby revoked.

[Footnote 38: See pp. 549-550.]

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, November 1, 1879.

The sad intelligence of the death of Zachariah Chandler, late Secretary of the Interior, and
during so many years a Senator from the State of Michigan, has been communicated to the Government
and to the country, and in proper respect to his memory I hereby order that the several Executive
Departments be closed to public business and their flags and those of their dependencies throughout
the country be displayed at half-mast on the day of his funeral.

R.B. HAYES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, November 17, 1879.

DEAR SIR:[39] I am directed by the President to say that the several Departments of the Government
will be closed on Wednesday, the 19th instant, to enable the employees to participate in the
ceremonies attending the unveiling of the statue of the late General George H. Thomas.

Very truly, yours,

W.K. ROGERS, Private Secretary.

RUTHERFORD B. HAYES.

[Footnote 40: See pp. 547-548.]

SPECIAL MESSAGES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, December 19, 1879.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I have the honor to transmit herewith a draft of a bill submitted by the Board of Commissioners
of the District of Columbia, entitled "A bill to provide for the reclamation of the marshes
in the harbors of the cities of Washington and Georgetown, and for other purposes," together
with the accompanying letter of the president of the board requesting its transmission to Congress.

The bill embraces a plan for the reclamation of the marshes of the Potomac River and its Eastern
Branch within the limits of the city of Washington, and is carefully framed with a view to
economy in the prosecution of the work. The attention of Congress is again invited to the urgent
need of legislation for this important work, which has been so long delayed.

The improvement contemplated is essential to the health of those who reside, whether permanently
or temporarily, at the capital, and to the safe and convenient navigation of the waters in
its vicinity by vessels employed in the service of the Government and for the purposes of commerce.
It is a measure of more than local benefit. The capital of the nation should be relieved from
every disadvantage which it is practicable to remove, and should possess every attraction with
which it can be invested by the intelligent and fostering care of those who are intrusted with
its immediate supervision. The people of the country will sustain and approve the efforts of
their representatives in the discharge of this responsibility.

R.B. HAYES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, January 7, 1880.

To the Senate of the United States:

In reply to a resolution of the Senate of December 3, 1879, requesting the President of the
United States to inform the Senate whether payments have been made to the Ute Indians in accordance
with the fourth article of an agreement made with said Indians September 3, 1873, I transmit
herewith a letter from the Secretary of the Interior and accompanying papers.

R.B. HAYES.

WASHINGTON, January 12, 1880.

To the House of Representatives:

I have the honor herewith to transmit the final report of the board for testing iron, steel,
and other metals, with the accompanying papers. These papers constitute the remainder of the
reports made by the board, which were transmitted by me to the House of Representatives on
the 15th of June, 1878 (House Ex. Doc. No. 98, Forty-fifth Congress, second session).

The United States testing machine at Watertown Arsenal, constructed for the board, is reported
as being of great value in the determination of data and the solution of problems of interest
to the people of the whole country, and the special attention of Congress is called to the
necessity of an appropriation to enable the War Department to make use of it. An estimate of
$20,000 for the purpose was submitted to Congress in the last Book of Estimates (see p. 82),
and an appropriation of that sum is respectfully recommended.

The act of July 31, 1876 (19 U.S. Statutes at Large, ch. 246, p. 119), made an appropriation
for completing the experiments in testing iron, steel, and other metals, and provided that
the board should be discontinued from and after the expenditure of the amount appropriated.
In accordance with this legislation, the board ceased to exist on the 30th of June, 1879.

R.B. HAYES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, January 21, 1880.

R.B. HAYES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, January 26, 1880.

To the House of Representatives:

In reply to a resolution of the House of Representatives of the 3d instant, requesting the
Commissioner of Agriculture to forward any facts or statistics in his office on the subject
of forestry not heretofore published from his Department, the following report, received from
the Commissioner, upon this subject is hereby transmitted.

R.B. HAYES.

WASHINGTON, February 16, 1880.

R.B. HAYES.

WASHINGTON, February 16, 1880.

R.B. HAYES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, February 24, 1880.

To the House of Representatives:

I herewith transmit a communication from the Attorney-General, with reference to the requisite
appropriation for the current fiscal year for the compensation, of the marshals of the United
States, including their reimbursement for necessary expenditures in the discharge of their
official duties.

R.B. HAYES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, February 25, 1880.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I have the honor to transmit herewith a preliminary report and a draft of a bill submitted
by the Public Lands Commission authorized by the act of Congress approved March 3, 1879.

The object of the report and of the bill accompanying it is of such importance that I respectfully
commend it to the prompt and earnest consideration of Congress.

R.B. HAYES.

WASHINGTON, February 27, 1880. Bromberger against the Government of Mexico.

R.B. HAYES.

WASHINGTON, February 27, 1880.

For your better understanding of the subject, I transmit also the correspondence of Commodore
Shufeldt with the Navy Department, which accompanied the treaty, describing the condition and
resources of the island of Johanna and narrating the progress of the negotiation, which was
undertaken under the general instructions of the Department of State.

R.B. HAYES.

WASHINGTON, March 1, 1880.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I deem it proper to invite the attention of Congress to the subject of the unsettled claims
of Spanish inhabitants of East Florida during the years of 1812 and 1813, generally known as
the "East Florida claims," the settlement of which is provided for by a stipulation found in
Article IX of the treaty of February, 1819, between the United States and Spain.

The act of Congress of the 3d of March, 1823 (3 U.S. Statutes at Large, p. 768), to carry into
effect the ninth article of the treaty in question, provided for the examination and judicial
ascertainment of the claims by the judges of the superior courts established at St. Augustine
and Pensacola, and also made provision for the payment by the Secretary of the Treasury of
such claims as might be reported to him by the said judges, upon his being satisfied that such
claims were just and equitable; and a subsequent act, approved the 26th of June, 1834 (6 U.S.
Statutes at Large, p. 569), gave further directions for the payment, and also provided for
the hearing and determination by the judge of the superior court of St. Augustine of such claims
as had not then been already heard and determined. Under these acts of Congress I understand
that all claims presented to the judges in Florida were passed upon and the result of the proceedings
thus had reported to the Secretary of the Treasury. It also appears that in the computation
of damages the judges adopted a rule of 5 per cent per annum on the ascertained actual loss
from the date of that loss to the time of the rendition of their finding, and that the Secretary
of the Treasury in 1836, when the first reports were presented to him, not deeming this portion
of the claims covered by the 5 per cent rule just and equitable within the meaning of the treaty
and the acts of Congress, refused to pay it, but did continue to pay the ascertained amounts
of actual loss. The demand for payment of this rejected item has been pressed at various times
and in various ways up to the present time, but Mr. Woodbury's successors in the Treasury Department
have not felt at liberty to review that ruling.

Under these circumstances I have thought it proper to lay the subject before Congress for its
consideration and such action as may be deemed necessary. The history of the proceedings already
had in regard to the matter is of record in the Treasury Department, and will be furnished
by the Secretary of the Treasury should Congress desire it.

R.B. HAYES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, March 8, 1880.

In further compliance with the resolution of the Senate, I deem it proper to state briefly
my opinion as to the policy of the United States with respect to the construction of an interoceanic
canal by any route across the American Isthmus.

The policy of this country is a canal under American control. The United States can not consent
to the surrender of this control to any European power or to any combination of European powers.
If existing treaties between the United States and other nations or if the rights of sovereignty
or property of other nations stand in the way of this policy--a contingency which is not apprehended--suitable
steps should be taken by just and liberal negotiations to promote and establish the American
policy on this subject consistently with the rights of the nations to be affected by it.

The capital invested by corporations or citizens of other countries in such an enterprise must
in a great degree look for protection to one or more of the great powers of the world. No European
power can intervene for such protection without adopting measures on this continent which the
United States would deem wholly inadmissible. If the protection of the United States is relied
upon, the United States must exercise such control as will enable this country to protect its
national interests and maintain the rights of those whose private capital is embarked in the work.

An interoceanic canal across the American Isthmus will essentially change the geographical
relations between the Atlantic and Pacific coasts of the United States and between the United
States and the rest of the world. It would be the great ocean thoroughfare between our Atlantic
and our Pacific shores, and virtually a part of the coast line of the United States. Our merely
commercial interest in it is greater than that of all other countries, while its relations
to our power and prosperity as a nation, to our means of defense, our unity, peace, and safety,
are matters of paramount concern to the people of the United States. No other great power would
under similar circumstances fail to assert a rightful control over a work so closely and vitally
affecting its interest and welfare. This, I am quite sure, will be found not only compatible
with but promotive of the widest and most permanent advantage to commerce and civilization.

RUTHERFORD B. HAYES.

[A similar message was sent to the House of Representatives, in answer to a resolution of that
body of February 10.]

EXECUTIVE MANSION, March 9, 1880. The stipulations of this agreement appear to me so reasonable
and just and the object to be accomplished by its execution so eminently desirable to both
the white people of the United States and the Indians that it has my cordial approval, and
I earnestly commend it to Congress for favorable consideration and appropriate legislative action.

RUTHERFORD B. HAYES.

WASHINGTON, March 9, 1880.

R.B. HAYES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, March 9, 1880.

R.B. HAYES.

To the Senate of the United States:

In compliance with the resolution of the Senate of the 29th of January, 1880, calling for information
in relation to the awards of the mixed commission organized under the provisions of the treaty
of April 25, 1866, between the United States and Venezuela, I transmit herewith a report from
the Secretary of State upon the subject.

R.B. HAYES.

WASHINGTON, April 12, 1880.

To the House of Representatives:

In response to the resolution of the House of Representatives of the 12th of February last,
on the subject of negotiations concerning the immigration of Chinese to the United States,
I transmit a report of the Secretary of State, to whom the matter was referred.

R.B. HAYES.

WASHINGTON, April 15, 1880.

To the Senate of the United States:

In response to the resolution of the Senate of the 27th of February last, concerning the action
had by the Executive with respect to the investigation of certain cases in which awards were
made by the late United States and Mexican Commission, I transmit herewith a report of the
Secretary of State, to whom the matter was referred.

R.B. HAYES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, D.C., April 16, 1880. That machine has been completed and accepted,
and is now in position at the Watertown Arsenal, Mass. It is spoken of by the members composing
the late board as the most perfect and reliable machine in the world, embodying new mechanical
principles and combinations not heretofore used in any other constructions.

In designing, perfecting, and making this machine the contractor has expended large sums of
money over and above the contract price, besides giving years of labor, for which he has received
no compensation. He now appeals to Congress for relief, and the papers herewith exhibit a case
that calls for Congressional action. It is respectfully submitted to the House of Representatives,
recommending speedy and favorable consideration.

R.B. HAYES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, April 22, 1880.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I have the honor to inform Congress that Mr. J. Randolph Coolidge, Dr. Algernon Coolidge, Mr.
Thomas Jefferson Coolidge, and Mrs. Ellen Dwight, of Massachusetts, the heirs of the late Joseph
Coolidge, jr., desire to present to the United States the desk on which the Declaration of
Independence was written. It bears the following inscription in the handwriting of Thomas Jefferson:

  Thomas Jefferson gives this writing desk to Joseph Coolidge,
  jr., as a memorial of his affection. It was made from
  a drawing of his own, by Ben. Randall, cabinetmaker of
  Philadelphia, with whom he first lodged on his arrival in that
  city in May, 1776, and is the identical one on which he wrote
  the Declaration of Independence.

  Politics, as well as religion, has its superstitions. These,
  gaining strength with time, may one day give imaginary value
  to this relic for its association with the birth of the great
  charter of our independence.

  Monticello, November 18, 1825.

The desk was placed in my possession by Hon. Robert C. Winthrop, and is herewith transmitted
to Congress with the letter of Mr. Winthrop expressing the wish of the donors "to offer it
to the United States, so that it may henceforth have a place in the Department of State in
connection with the immortal instrument which was written upon it in 1776."

I respectfully recommend that such action be taken by Congress as may be deemed appropriate
with reference to a gift to the nation so precious in its history and for the memorable associations
which belong to it.

RUTHERFORD B. HAYES.

WASHINGTON, D.C., April 14, 1880.

His Excellency RUTHERFORD B. HAYES,
  President of the United States.

MY DEAR SIR: I have been privileged to bring with me from Boston, as a present to the United
States, a very precious historical relic. It is the little desk on which Mr. Jefferson wrote
the original draft of the Declaration of Independence.

This desk was given by Mr. Jefferson himself to my friend, the late Joseph Coolidge, of Boston,
at the time of his marriage to Jefferson's granddaughter, Miss Randolph, and it bears an autograph
inscription of singular interest, written by the illustrious author of the Declaration in the
very last year of his life.

They have done me the honor to make me the medium of this distinguished gift, and I ask permission
to place it in the hands of the Chief Magistrate of the nation in their name and at their request.

Believe me, dear Mr. President, with the highest respect, very faithfully, your obedient servant,

ROBT. C. WINTHROP.

WASHINGTON, May 13, 1880.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit herewith to the Senate, in response to their resolution of the 24th of March last,
in relation to the fulfillment of the ninth article of the treaty of 1819 between the United
States and Spain, a report of the Secretary of State on the correspondence asked for by the
resolution, with its accompanying documents, and in connection therewith a previous report
from the Secretary of State and an opinion of the Attorney-General on the subject of the East
Florida claims.

R.B. HAYES.

WASHINGTON, May 17, 1880.

To the House of Representatives:

In compliance with the resolution of the House of Representatives of the 27th ultimo, calling
for copies of the correspondence with the Government of Great Britain in regard to the alleged
outrage upon American fishermen at Fortune Bay, in the Province of Newfoundland, I transmit
herewith the correspondence called for and a report from the Secretary of State on the subject.

In transmitting this correspondence and the report I respectfully ask the immediate and careful
attention of Congress to the failure of accord between the two Governments as to the interpretation
and execution of the fishery articles of the treaty of Washington, as disclosed in this correspondence
and elucidated by the exposition of the subject by the Secretary of State.

I concur in the opinions of this report as to the measures proper to be taken by this Government
in maintenance of the rights accorded to our fishermen by the British concession of the treaty
and in providing for suitable action toward securing an indemnity for the injury these interests
have already suffered.

Accordingly, I recommend to Congress the adoption of these measures, with such attendant details
of legislation as in the wisdom of Congress shall seem expedient.

R.B. HAYES.

[The same message was sent to the Senate, in answer to a resolution of that body of April 28.]

WASHINGTON, May 24, 1880.

R.B. HAYES.

The special and immediate attention of Congress to the imminent danger attending the postponement
of appropriate legislation to carry into effect the stipulations of this agreement is earnestly
solicited.

R.B. HAYES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, June 5, 1880.

To the Senate of the United States:

In response to a resolution of the Senate of the 31st ultimo, requesting the President "to
communicate to the Senate whether any supervisor or supervisors of the census appointed by
and with the advice and consent of the Senate have been removed from office by him or with
his consent," etc., I transmit herewith a report from the Secretary of the Interior.

R.B. HAYES.

VETO MESSAGES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, May 4, 1880.

To the House of Representatives:

After mature consideration of the bill entitled "An act making appropriations to supply certain
deficiencies in the appropriations for the service of the Government for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1880, and for other purposes," I return it to the House of Representatives, in which
it originated, with my objections to its passage.

The bill appropriates about $8,000,000, of which over $600,000 is for the payment of the fees
of United States marshals and of the general and special deputy marshals earned during the
current fiscal year, and their incidental expenses. The appropriations made in the bill are
needed to carry on the operations of the Government and to fulfill its obligations for the
payment of money long since due to its officers for services and expenses essential to the
execution of their duties under the laws of the United States. The necessity for these appropriations
is so urgent and they have been already so long delayed that if the bill before me contained
no permanent or general legislation unconnected with these appropriations it would receive
my prompt approval. It contains, however, provisions which materially change, and by implication
repeal, important parts of the laws for the regulation of the United States elections. These
laws have for several years past been the subject of vehement political controversy, and have
been denounced as unnecessary, oppressive, and unconstitutional. On the other hand, it has
been maintained with equal zeal and earnestness that the election laws are indispensable to
fair and lawful elections, and are clearly warranted by the Constitution. Under these circumstances,
to attempt in an appropriation bill the modification or repeal of these laws is to annex a
condition to the passage of needed and proper appropriations, which tends to deprive the Executive
of that equal and independent exercise of discretion and judgment which the Constitution contemplates.

The objection to the bill, therefore, to which I respectfully ask your attention is that it
gives a marked and deliberate sanction, attended by no circumstances of pressing necessity,
to the questionable and, as I am clearly of opinion, the dangerous practice of tacking upon
appropriation bills general and permanent legislation. This practice opens a wide door to hasty,
inconsiderate, and sinister legislation. It invites attacks upon the independence and constitutional
powers of the Executive by providing an easy and effective way of constraining Executive discretion.
Although of late this practice has been resorted to by all political parties when clothed with
power, it did not prevail until forty years after the adoption of the Constitution, and it
is confidently believed that it is condemned by the enlightened judgment of the country. The
States which have adopted new constitutions during the last quarter of a century have generally
provided remedies for the evil.

I am firmly convinced that appropriation bills ought not to contain any legislation not relevant
to the application or expenditure of the money thereby appropriated, and that by a strict adherence
to this principle an important and much needed reform will be accomplished.

Placing my objection to the bill on this feature of its frame, I forbear any comment upon the
important general and permanent legislation which it contains, as matter for specific and independent
consideration.

RUTHERFORD B. HAYES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, June 15, 1880.

To the Senate of the United States:

After mature consideration of the bill entitled "An act regulating the pay and appointment
of deputy marshals," I am constrained to withhold from it my approval, and to return it to
the Senate, in which it originated, with my objections to its passage.

The laws now in force on the subject of the bill before me are contained in the following sections
of the Revised Statutes:

  SEC. 2021. Whenever an election at which Representatives or
  Delegates in Congress are to be chosen is held in any city
  or town of 20,000 inhabitants or upward, the marshal for the
  district in which the city or town is situated shall, on the
  application in writing of at least two citizens residing in
  such city or town, appoint special deputy marshals, whose
  duty it shall be, when required thereto, to aid and assist
  the supervisors of election in the verification of any list
  of persons who may have registered or voted; to attend in each
  election district or voting precinct at the times and places
  fixed for the registration of voters, and at all times
  or places when and where the registration may by law be
  scrutinized and the names of registered voters be marked
  for challenge; and also to attend, at all times for holding
  elections, the polls in such district or precinct.

  SEC. 2022. The marshal and his general deputies, and such
  special deputies, shall keep the peace and support and protect
  the supervisors of election in the discharge of their duties,
  preserve order at such places of registration and at such
  polls, prevent fraudulent registration and fraudulent voting
  thereat, or fraudulent conduct on the part of any officer of
  election, and immediately, either at the place of registration
  or polling place, or elsewhere, and either before or after
  registering or voting, to arrest and take into custody, with
  or without process, any person who commits, or attempts or
  offers to commit, any of the acts or offenses prohibited
  herein, or who commits any offense against the laws of the
  United States; but no person shall be arrested without process
  for any offense not committed in the presence of the marshal
  or his general or special deputies, or either of them, or of
  the supervisors of election, or either of them; and for
  the purposes of arrest or the preservation of the peace the
  supervisors of election shall, in the absence of the marshal's
  deputies, or if required to assist such deputies, have the
  same duties and powers as deputy marshals; nor shall any
  person, on the day of such election, be arrested without
  process for any offense committed on the day of registration.

  SEC. 2023. Whenever any arrest is made under any provision of
  this title, the person so arrested shall forthwith be brought
  before a commissioner, judge, or court of the United States
  for examination of the offenses alleged against him; and such
  commissioner, judge, or court shall proceed in respect thereto
  as authorized by law in case of crimes against the United
  States.

  SEC. 2024. The marshal or his general deputies, or such
  special deputies as are thereto specially empowered by him in
  writing, and under his hand and seal, whenever he or either
  or any of them is forcibly resisted in executing their duties
  under this title, or shall by violence, threats, or menaces
  be prevented from executing such duties or from arresting any
  person who has committed any offense for which the marshal
  or his general or his special deputies are authorized to make
  such arrest, are, and each of them is, empowered to summon
  and call to his aid the bystanders or posse comitatus of his
  district.

  SEC. 2028. He was the terrible foe of Roman-Catholic superstition.
  The petition of the polite prelate appears to have been answered.
  The virgin queen resisted inexorably the arts of all charmers,
  and is thought never to have been bewitched in her life.
  

  It is probable that Spenser, in his "Faërie Queen," has described
  with accuracy the witch of the sixteenth century in the following
  beautiful lines:--
  
  "There, in a gloomy hollow glen, she found A little cottage
  built of sticks and weedes, In homely wise, and wald
  with sods around, In which a witch did dwell in loathly
  weedes And wilful want, all careless of her needes; So choosing
  solitarie to abide Far from all neighbors, that her devilish
  deedes And hellish arts from people she might hide, And hurt
  far off unknowne whomever she envide."
  
  So prone were some to indulge in the contemplation of the agency of
the Devil and his myrmidons, that they strained, violated, and perverted
the language of Scripture to make it speak of them.

  Thus they insisted that the word "Philistines" meant
  confederates and subjects of the Devil, and accordingly interpreted
  the expression, "I will deliver you into the hands of the
  Philistines," thus, "I will deliver you into the hands of
  demons."
  
  I cannot describe the extent to which the superstition we are reviewing
  was carried about the close of the sixteenth century in stronger
  language than the following, from a candid and learned French
  Roman-Catholic historian: "So great folly," says he, "did then
  oppress the miserable world, that Christians believed
  greater absurdities than could ever be imposed upon the heathens."*****
We have now arrived at the commencement of the seventeenth century,
within which the prosecutions for witchcraft took place in Salem.

To
  show the
  
  opinions of the clergy of the English Church at this time, I will quote
  the following curious canon, made by the convocation in 1603:-- "That
  no minister or ministers, without license and direction of
  the bishop, under his hand and seal obtained, attempt, upon
  any pretence whatsoever, either
  
  of possession or obsession, by fasting and prayer, to cast out
  any devil or devils, under pain of the imputation of imposture
  or cozenage, and deposition from the ministry." In the same
  year, licenses were actually granted, as required above, by the
  Bishop of Chester; and several ministers were duly authorized by
  him to cast out devils! During this whole century, there were trials
  and executions for witchcraft in all civilized countries.
  More than two hundred were hanged in England, thousands were burned
in Scotland, and still larger numbers in various parts of Europe.

Edward
  Fairfax, the poet, was one of the most accomplished men in England.
  This same Fairfax prosecuted six of his neighbors for bewitching
  his children. The trials took place about the time the first pilgrims
  came to America. In 1634, Urbain Grandier,
  
  a very learned and eminent French minister, rendered himself odious
  to the bigoted
  
  nuns of Loudun, by his moderation towards heretics. Secretly instigated,
as has been supposed, by Cardinal Richelieu, against whom he had
written a satire, they pretended to be bewitched by him, and procured
his prosecution: he was tortured upon the rack until he swooned, and
then was burned at the stake.

  In 1640, Dr. Lamb, of London, was murdered in the streets of
  that city by
  
  the mob, on suspicion of witchcraft. Several were hanged in
  England, only a few years before the proceedings commenced in Salem.
  Some were tried by water ordeal, and drowned in the process, in Suffolk,
Essex, Cambridgeshire, and Northamptonshire, at the very time the
executions were going on here; and a considerable number of capital
punishments took place in various parts of Great Britain, some years
after the prosecution had ceased in America.

  The trials and executions in England and Scotland were attended by
  circumstances as painful, as barbarous, and in all respects
  as disgraceful, as those occurring in Salem. Every species of torture
seems to have been resorted to: the principles of reason, justice,
and humanity were set at defiance, and the whole body of the people
kept in a state of the most fierce excitement against the sufferers.

  Indeed, there is nothing more distressing in the contemplation
  of these sanguinary proceedings than the spirit of deliberate
  and unmitigated cruelty with which they were conducted. No symptoms
  of pity, compassion, or sympathy, appear to have been manifested
  by the judges or the community. The following account of the
  expenses attending the execution of two persons convicted
  of witchcraft in Scotland, shows in what a cool, business-like
  style the affair was managed:-- "For ten loads of coal, to burn
  them£ 3 6 8 For a tar barrel 0 14 0 For
  
  towes 0 6 0 For hurden to be jumps for them 3 10 0 For making of
  them 0 8 0 For one to go to Finmouth for the Laird to sit upon
  their assize as judge 0 6 0 For the executioner for his pains
  8 14 0 For his expenses here 0 16 4" The brutalizing effects
  of capital punishments are clearly seen in these, as in all
  other instances. They gradually impart a feeling of indifference
  to the value of human life, or to the idea of cutting it off
  by the hand of violence, to all who become accustomed to the spectacle.
  In various ways they exercise influences upon the tone and temper
  of society, which cannot but be regarded with regret by
  the citizen, the legislator, the moralist, the philanthropist,
  and the Christian. Sinclair, in his work called "Satan's Invisible
  World Discovered," gives the following affecting declaration
  made by one of the confessing witches, as she was on her
  way to the
  
  stake:-- "Now all you that see me this day know that I am now
  to die as a witch by my own confession; and I free all men, especially
the ministers and magistrates, of the guilt of my blood; I take it
wholly upon myself, my blood be upon my own head: and, as I must make
answer to the God of heaven presently, I declare I am as free of
witchcraft as any child; but, being delated by a malicious woman,
and put in prison under the name of a witch, disowned by my husband
and friends, and seeing no ground of hope of my coming out of prison,
or ever coming in credit again, through the temptation of the Devil,
I made up that confession on purpose to destroy my own life, being
weary of it, and choosing rather to die than live."

  
  
  Sir George Mackenzie says that he went to examine some women
  who had confessed, and that one of them, who was a silly creature,
  told him, "under secresie," "that she had not confessed because
  she was guilty, but, being a poor creature, who wrought for
  her meat, and being defamed for a witch, she knew she would starve, for
  no person thereafter would either give her meat or lodging, and
  that all men would beat her, and hound dogs at her, and that
  therefore she desired to be out of the world." Whereupon
  
  she wept most bitterly, and, upon her knees, called God to witness
  to what she said. A wretch, named Matthew Hopkins, rendered
  himself infamously conspicuous in the prosecutions for witchcraft
that took place in the counties of Essex, Sussex, Norfolk, and Huntingdon,
in England, in the years 1645 and 1646.

The
  title he assumed indicates the part he acted: it was "Witch-finder-general."
He travelled from place to place; his expenses were paid; and he required,
in addition, regular fees for the discovery of a witch. Besides pricking
the body to find the witch-mark, he compelled the wretched and decrepit
victims of his cruel practices to sit in a painful posture, on an elevated
stool, with their limbs crossed; and, if they persevered in refusing
to confess, he would prolong their torture, in some cases, to more
than twenty-four hours. He would prevent their going to sleep, and
drag them about barefoot over the rough ground, thus overcoming them
with extreme weariness and pain: but his favorite method was to tie
the thumb of the right hand close to the great toe of the left foot,
and draw them through a river or pond; if they floated, as they would
be likely to do, while their heavier limbs were thus sustained and
upborne by the rope, it was considered as conclusive proof of their
guilt.

  
  
  He and his exploits are referred to in the following lines, from
  that storehouse of good sense and keen wit, Butler's "Hudibras:"--
  "Hath not this present Parliament A leiger to the Devil sent, Fully
  empowered to treat about Finding revolted witches out? And
  has he not within a year Hanged threescore of them in one shire?"
  The infatuated people looked upon this Hopkins with admiration
  and astonishment, and could only account for his success by
  the supposition, which, we are told, was generally entertained,
  that he had stolen the memorandum-book in which Satan had recorded
  the names of all the persons in
  
  England who were in league with him! The most melancholy circumstance
  connected with the history of this creature is, that Richard Baxter
and Edmund Calamy-- names dear and venerable in the estimation of all
virtuous and pious men-- were deceived and deluded by him: they countenanced
his conduct, followed him in his movements, and aided him in his
proceedings.

  At length, however, some gentlemen, shocked at the cruelty and suspicious of the
  integrity of Hopkins, seized him, tied his thumbs and toes together,
  threw him into a pond, and dragged him about to their hearts'content.
  They were fully satisfied with the result of the experiment.
  It was found that he did not sink. He stood condemned on his own principles;
  and thus the country was rescued from the power of the malicious
  impostor. Among the persons whose death Hopkins procured, was
  a venerable, gray-headed clergyman, named Lewis. He was of
  the Church of England, had been the minister of a congregation for
more than half a century, and was over eighty years of age.

His infirm frame was subjected to the customary tests, even to the trial by water ordeal: he was compelled
to walk almost incessantly for several days and nights, until, in the exhaustion of his nature,
he yielded assent to a confession that was adduced against him in Court; which, however, he
disowned and denied there and at all times, from the moment of release from the torments, by which
it had been extorted, to his last breath. As he was about to die the death of a felon, he knew that
the rites of sepulture, according to the forms of his denomination,
would be denied to his remains.

The aged
sufferer, it is related, read his own funeral service while on the scaffold. Solemn, sublime,
and affecting as are passages of this portion of the ritual of the
Church, surely it was never performed under circumstances so well
suited to impress with awe and tenderness as when uttered by the calumniated,
oppressed, and dying old man.

Baxter had been tried for sedition, on the ground that one of his publications contained a reflection
upon Episcopacy, and was imprisoned for two years. It is a striking and melancholy illustration
of the moral infirmity of human nature, that the author of the "Saints'Everlasting Rest,"
and the "Call to the Unconverted," permitted such a vengeful feeling
against the Establishment to enter his breast, that he took pleasure,
and almost exulted, in relating the fate of this innocent and aged
clergyman, whom he denominates, in derision, a "Reading Parson."

Baxter's writings are pervaded by his belief in all sorts of supernatural things. In the "Saints'Everlasting
Rest," he declares his conviction of the reality and authenticity of stories of ghosts, apparitions,
haunted houses,& c. He placed full faith in a tale, current among the people of his day, of the "dispossession
of the Devil out of many persons together in a room in Lancashire,
at the prayer of some godly ministers."

In his "Dying Thoughts," he says, "I have had many convincing proofs of witches, the contracts
they have made with devils, and the power which they have received
from them;" and he seems to have credited the most absurd fables
ever invented on the subject by ignorance, folly, or fraud.

The case to which he refers, as one of the "dispossession of devils," may be found in a tract published
in London in 1697, entitled, "The Surey Demoniac; or, an Account of Satan's strange and dreadful
actings, in and about the body of Richard Dugdale, of Surey, near
Whalley, in Lancashire.

  And how he was dispossessed by God's blessing on the Fastings and
  Prayers of divers Ministers and People. The matter of fact attested
  by the oaths of several creditable persons, before some of his
  Majestie's Justices of the Peace in the said county." The "London
  Monthly Repository" (vol. v., 1810) describes the affair as follows:
  "These dreadful actings of Satan continued above a year; during
  which there was a desperate struggle between him and nine ministers
  of the gospel, who had undertaken to cast him out, and, for that
  purpose, successively relieved each other in their daily combats
  with him: while Satan tried all his arts to baffle their
  attempts, insulting them with scoffs and raillery, puzzling them
  sometimes with Greek and Latin, and threatening them with the effects
  of his vengeance, till he was finally vanquished and put to flight
  by the persevering prayers and fastings of the said ministers."
  No name in English history is regarded with more respect and
  admiration, by wise and virtuous men, than that of Sir Matthew
  Hale. His character was almost venerated by our ancestors; and it
  has been thought that it was the influence of his authority, more than
  any thing else, that prevailed upon them to pursue the course they
  adopted in the prosecutions at Salem. This great and
  good man presided, as Lord Chief Baron, at the trial of
  two females,-- Amy Dunny and Rose Cullender,-- at Bury St. Edmunds,
  in Suffolk, in the year 1664. They were convicted and executed. Baxter
relates the following circumstance as having occurred at this trial:
"A godly minister, yet living, sitting by to see one of the girls (who
appeared as a witness against the prisoners) in her fits, suddenly
felt a force pull one of the hooks from his breeches; and, while
he looked with wonder at what was become of it, the tormented girl
vomited it up out of her mouth."

To give an idea of the nature of the testimony upon which the principal
stress was laid by the government, I will extract the following passages
from the report of the trial: "Robert Sherringham testified that the
axle-tree of his cart, happening, in passing, to break some part of
Rose Cullender's house, in her anger at it, she vehemently threatened
him his horses should suffer for it; and, within a short time, all
his four horses died; after which he sustained many other losses,
in the sudden dying of his cattle.

He was also taken with a lameness in his limbs, and so far vexed with lice of an extraordinary number
and bigness, that no art could hinder the swarming of them, till he burned up two suits of apparel."--
"Margaret Arnold testified that Amy Dunny afflicted her children: they (the children), she said,
would see mice running round the house, and, when they caught them and threw them into the fire,
they would screech out like rats."-- "A thing like a bee flew at the face of the younger child; the
child fell into a fit, and at last vomited up a two-penny nail, with a broad head, affirming that the
bee brought this nail, and forced it into her mouth."-- "She one day caught an invisible mouse,
and, throwing it into the fire, it flashed like to gunpowder.

None besides the child saw the mouse, but every one saw the flash!" In this instance we perceive the influence
of prejudice in perverting evidence. The circumstance that the mouse was invisible to all eyes but
those of the child ought to have satisfied the Court and jury that she was either under the power
of a delusion or practising an imposture. But, as they were predisposed to find something supernatural
in the transaction, their minds seized upon the pretended invisibility of the mouse as conclusive
proof of diabolical agency. Many persons who were present expressed the opinion, that the issue
of the trial would have been favorable to the prisoners, had it not been for the following circumstance:
Sir Thomas Browne, a physician, philosopher, and scholar of unrivalled celebrity at that time, happened
to be upon the spot; and it was the universal wish that he should be called to the stand, and
his opinion be obtained on the general subject of witchcraft. An enthusiastic contemporary
admirer of Sir Thomas Browne thus describes him: "The horizon of his understanding was much
larger than the hemisphere of the world: all that was visible in the heavens he comprehended
so well, that few that are under them knew so much; and of the earth
he had such a minute and exact geographical knowledge as if he had
been by Divine Providence ordained surveyor-general of the whole terrestrial
globe and its products, minerals, plants, and animals."

His memory is stated to have been inferior only to that of Seneca or Scaliger; and he was reputed
master of seven languages. Dr. Johnson, who has written his biography, sums up his character
in the following terms: "But it is not on the praises of others, but on his own writings, that he is to
depend for the esteem of posterity, of which he will not easily be
deprived, while learning shall have any reverence among men: for
there is no science in which he does not discover some skill; and
scarce any kind of knowledge, profane or sacred, abstruse or elegant,
which he does not appear to have cultivated with success."

  Sir Thomas Browne was considered by those of his own generation
  to have made great advances beyond the wisdom of his age. He
  claimed the character of a reformer, and gave to his principal
  publication the
  
  title of an "Enquiry into Vulgar Errors." So bold and free were
  his speculations, that he was looked upon invidiously by many
  as a daring innovator, and did not escape the denunciatory
  imputation of heresy. Nothing could be more unjust, however,
  than this latter charge. He was a most ardent and zealous believer
  in the doctrines of the Established Church. He declares "that
  he assumes the
  
  honorable style of a Christian," not because "it is the religion of his
country," but because, "having in his riper years and confirmed judgment
seen and examined all, he finds himself obliged, by the principles of
grace and the law of his own reason, to embrace no other name but this."
He exults and "blesses himself, that he lived not in the days of miracles,
when faith had been thrust upon him, but enjoys that greater blessing
pronounced to all that believed, and saw not:" nay, he goes so far
as to say, that they only had the advantage "of a bold and noble
faith, who lived before the coming of the Saviour, and, upon obscure
prophecies and mystical types, could raise a belief."

  The fact that such a man was accused of infidelity is an affecting
  proof of the injustice that is sometimes done by the judgment of
  contemporaries. This prodigy of learning and philosophy went
  into Court, took the stand, and declared his opinion in favor
  of the reality of witchcraft, entered into a particular discussion
  of the subject before the jury, threw the whole weight of his great
  name into the wavering scales of justice, and the poor women were
  convicted. The authority of Sir Thomas Browne, added to the other
evidence, perplexed Sir Matthew Hale. A reporter of the trial says, "that
it made this great and good man doubtful; but he was in such fears,
and proceeded with such caution, that he would not so much as sum
up the evidence, but left it to the jury with prayers,'that the great
God of heaven would direct their hearts in that weighty matter.'"

The result of this important trial established decisively the interpretation
of English law; and the printed report of it was used as an authoritative
text-book in the Court at Salem.

The celebrated Robert Boyle flourished in the latter half of the seventeenth century. He is allowed
by all to have done much towards the introduction of an improved philosophy, and the promotion of
experimental science. But he could not entirely shake off the superstition of his age. A small
city in Burgundy, called Mascon, was famous in the annals of witchcraft. In a work called "The
Theatre of God's Judgments," published, in London, by Thomas Beard
in 1612, there is the following passage: "It was a very lamentable
spectacle that chanced to the Governor of Mascon, a magician, whom
the Devil snatched up in dinner-while, and hoisted aloft, carrying
him three times about the town of Mascon, in the presence of many
beholders, to whom he cried in this manner,'Help, help, my friends!'so
that the whole town stood amazed thereat; yea, and the remembrance
of this strange accident sticketh at this day fast in the minds of
all the inhabitants of this country." These notes long since
became, like any other pecuniary obligation of the Government, a debt to be paid, and when
paid to be canceled as mere evidence of an indebtedness no longer existing.

At the time of the passage of the act now in force requiring the coinage of silver dollars,
fixing their value, and giving them legal-tender character it was believed by many of the supporters
of the measure that the silver dollar which it authorized would speedily become, under the
operations of the law, of equivalent value to the gold dollar. There were other supporters
of the bill, who, while they doubted as to the probability of this result, nevertheless were
willing to give the proposed experiment a fair trial, with a view to stop the coinage if experience
should prove that the silver dollar authorized by the bill continued to be of less commercial
value than the standard gold dollar.

The coinage of silver dollars under the act referred to began in March, 1878, and has been
continued as required by the act. The average rate per month to the present time has been $2,276,492.
The total amount coined prior to the 1st of November last was $72,847,750. Of this amount $47,084,450
remain in the Treasury, and only $25,763,291 are in the hands of the people. A constant effort
has been made to keep this currency in circulation, and considerable expense has been necessarily
incurred for this purpose; but its return to the Treasury is prompt and sure. Contrary to the
confident anticipation of the friends of the measure at the time of its adoption, the value
of the silver dollar containing 412-1/2 grains of silver has not increased. During the year
prior to the passage of the bill authorizing its coinage the market value of the silver which
it contained was from 90 to 92 cents as compared with the standard gold dollar. During the
last year the average market value of the silver dollar has been 88-1/2 cents.

It is obvious that the legislation of the last Congress in regard to silver, so far as it was
based on an anticipated rise in the value of silver as a result of that legislation, has failed
to produce the effect then predicted. The longer the law remains in force, requiring, as it
does, the coinage of a nominal dollar which in reality is not a dollar, the greater becomes
the danger that this country will be forced to accept a single metal as the sole legal standard
of value in circulation, and this a standard of less value than it purports to be worth in
the recognized money of the world.

The Constitution of the United States, sound financial principles, and our best interests all
require that the country should have as its legal-tender money both gold and silver coin of
an intrinsic value, as bullion, equivalent to that which upon its face it purports to possess.
The Constitution in express terms recognizes both gold and silver as the only true legal-tender
money. To banish either of these metals from our currency is to narrow and limit the circulating
medium of exchange to the disparagement of important interests. The United States produces
more silver than any other country, and is directly interested in maintaining it as one of
the two precious metals which furnish the coinage of the world. It will, in my judgment, contribute
to this result if Congress will repeal so much of existing legislation as requires the coinage
of silver dollars containing only 412-1/2 grains of silver, and in its stead will authorize
the Secretary of the Treasury to coin silver dollars of equivalent value, as bullion, with
gold dollars. This will defraud no man, and will be in accordance with familiar precedents.
Congress on several occasions has altered the ratio of value between gold and silver, in order
to establish it more nearly in accordance with the actual ratio of value between the two metals.

In financial legislation every measure in the direction of greater fidelity in the discharge
of pecuniary obligations has been found by experience to diminish the rates of interest which
debtors are required to pay and to increase the facility with which money can be obtained for
every legitimate purpose. Our own recent financial history shows how surely money becomes abundant
whenever confidence in the exact performance of moneyed obligations is established. The appropriations
for this Department for the current fiscal year amount to $41,993,630.40.

With respect to the Army, the Secretary invites attention to the fact that its strength is
limited by statute (U.S. Revised Statutes, sec. 1115) to not more than 30,000 enlisted men,
but that provisos contained in appropriation bills have limited expenditures to the enlistment
of but 25,000. It is believed the full legal strength is the least possible force at which
the present organization can be maintained, having in view efficiency, discipline, and economy.
While the enlistment of this force would add somewhat to the appropriation for pay of the Army,
the saving made in other respects would be more than an equivalent for this additional outlay,
and the efficiency of the Army would be largely increased.

The rapid extension of the railroad system west of the Mississippi River and the great tide
of settlers which has flowed in upon new territory impose on the military an entire change
of policy. The maintenance of small posts along wagon and stage routes of travel is no longer
necessary. Permanent quarters at points selected, of a more substantial character than those
heretofore constructed, will be required. Under existing laws permanent buildings can not be
erected without the sanction of Congress, and when sales of military sites and buildings have
been authorized the moneys received have reverted to the Treasury and could only become available
through a new appropriation. It is recommended that provision be made by a general statute
for the sale of such abandoned military posts and buildings as are found to be unnecessary
and for the application of the proceeds to the construction of other posts. While many of the
present posts are of but slight value for military purposes, owing to the changed condition
of the country, their occupation is continued at great expense and inconvenience, because they
afford the only available shelter for troops.

The absence of a large number of officers of the line, in active duty, from their regiments
is a serious detriment to the maintenance of the service. The constant demand for small detachments,
each of which should be commanded by a commissioned officer, and the various details of officers
for necessary service away from their commands occasion a scarcity in the number required for
company duties. With a view to lessening this drain to some extent, it is recommended that
the law authorizing the detail of officers from the active list as professors of tactics and
military science at certain colleges and universities be so amended as to provide that all
such details be made from the retired list of the Army.

Attention is asked to the necessity of providing by legislation for organizing, arming, and
disciplining the active militia of the country, and liberal appropriations are recommended
in this behalf. The reports of the Adjutant-General of the Army and the Chief of Ordnance touching
this subject fully set forth its importance.

The report of the officer in charge of education in the Army shows that there are 78 schools
now in operation in the Army, with an aggregate attendance of 2,305 enlisted men and children.
The Secretary recommends the enlistment of 150 schoolmasters, with the rank and pay of commissary-sergeants.
An appropriation is needed to supply the judge-advocates of the Army with suitable libraries,
and the Secretary recommends that the Corps of Judge-Advocates be placed upon the same footing
as to promotion with the other staff corps of the Army. It was impossible to disprove the charge, and
the last defence of innocence was swept away.

If any thing strange or remarkable could be discovered in the persons, histories, or deportment
of accused persons, the usage of the tribunals, and the books of authority on the subject, allowed
it to be brought in evidence against them. If any thing they had forewarned, or even conjectured,
happened to come to pass, any careless speech had been verified by
events, any extraordinary knowledge had been manifested, or any marvellous
feats of strength or agility been displayed, they were brought up
with decisive and fatal effect.

A witch was believed to have the power of operating upon her victims, at any distance, by the
instrumentality of puppets. She would procure or make an object like a doll, or a figure of some animal,-- any
little bunch of cloth or bundle of rags would answer the purpose. She would will the puppet to represent
the person whom she proposed to torment or afflict; and then whatever she did to the puppet would
be suffered by the party it represented at any distance, however remote. A pin stuck into the
puppet would pierce the flesh of the person whom she wished to afflict, and produce the appropriate
sensations of pain. So would a pinch, or a blow, or any kind of violence. When any one was arrested
on the charge of witchcraft, a search was immediately made for puppets
from garret to cellar; and if any thing could be found that might
possibly be imagined to possess that character,-- any remnant of flannel
or linen wrapped up, the foot of an old stocking, or a cushion of
any kind, particularly if there were any pins in it,-- it was considered
as weighty and quite decisive evidence against the accused party.

A writer, in a recent number of the "North-American Review," on the superstitions of the American
Indians, makes the following statement:-- "The sorcerer, by charms,
magic songs, magic feats, and the beating of his drum, had power over
the spirits, and those occult influences inherent in animals and inanimate
things.

He could call to him the souls of his enemies. They appeared before him in the form of stones.
He chopped and bruised them with his hatchet; blood and flesh issued forth; and the intended victim,
however distant, languished and died. Like the sorcerer of the middle ages, he made images of those
he wished to destroy, and, muttering incantations, punctured them
with an awl; whereupon the persons represented sickened and pined
away."

It was a received opinion, accredited and acted upon in courts, that a person in confederacy with
the Evil One could not weep.

Those
accused of this crime, both in Europe and America, were, in many instances, of an age and condition
which rendered it impossible for them, however innocent, to escape the effect of this test.
A decrepit, emaciated person, shrivelled and desiccated by age, was placed at the bar: and if she could
not weep on the spot; if, in consequence of her withered frame, her amazement and indignation at the
false and malignant charges by which she was circumvented, her exhausted sensibility, her sullen
despair, the hopeless horror of her situation, or, from what often was found to be the effect of the treatment
such persons received, a high-toned consciousness of innocence, and
a brave defiance and stern condemnation of her maligners and persecutors;
if, from any cause, the fountain of tears was closed or dried up,--
their failure to come forth at the bidding of her defamers was regarded
as a sure and irrefragable proof of her guilt. King James explains the
circumstance, that witches could not weep, in rather a curious manner:--
"For as, in a secret murther, if the dead carkasse bee at any time
thereafter handled by the murtherer it will gush out of bloud, as
if the bloud were crying to the heaven for revenge of the murtherer,
God having appointed that secret supernaturall signe for triall of
that secret unnaturall crime; so it appeares that God hath appointed
(for a supernaturall signe of the monstrous impietie of witches),
that the water shall refuse to receive them in her bosome that have
shaken off them the sacred water of baptisme, and wilfully refused
the benefite thereof: no, not so much as their eyes are able to shed
teares (threaten and torture them as ye please), while first they
repent (God not permitting them to dissemble their obstinacie in so
horrible a crime), albeit the woman kind especially be able otherwise
to shed teares at every light occasion when they will,-- yea, although
it were dissemblingly like the crocodiles."

Reginald Scott, in introducing a Romish form of adjuration, makes
the following excellent remarks on the trial by tears:-- "But alas
that teares should be thought sufficient to excuse or condemn in so
great a cause, and so weightie a triall!

I am
sure that the worst sort of the children of Israel wept bitterlie; yea, if there were any witches
at all in Israel, they wept. For it is written, that all the children of Israel wept. Finallie, if
there be any witches in hell, I am sure they weepe; for there is weeping
and wailing and gnashing of teeth. But God knoweth many an honest matron
cannot sometimes in the heaviness of her heart shed teares; the which
oftentimes are more readie and common with crafty queans and strumpets
than with sober women. For we read of two kinds of teares in a woman's
eie; the one of true greefe, and the other of deceipt. And it is written,
that'Dediscere flere foeminam est mendacium;'which argueth that they
lie, which saie that wicked women cannot weepe. But let these tormentors
take heed, that the teares in this case which runne down the widowe's
cheeks, with their crie, spoken of by Jesus Sirach, be not heard above.
But, lo, what learned, godlie and lawful meanes these Popish Inquisitors
have invented for the triall of true or false teares:--'I conjure
thee, by the amorous tears which Jesus Christ, our Saviour, shed upon
the crosse for the salvation of the world; and by the most earnest
and burning teares of his mother, the most glorious Virgine Marie,
sprinkled upon his wounds late in the evening; and by all the teares
which everie saint and elect vessell of God hath poured out heere
in the world, and from whose eies he hath wiped awaie all teares,--
that, if thou be without fault, thou maist poure downe teares aboundantlie;
and, if thou be guiltie, that thou weep in no wise.

In the name of the Father, of the Sonne, and of the Holie Ghost. Amen.'" The more you conjure, the
lesse she weepeth.

"A distinction was made between black and white witches. The former were those who had leagued
with Satan for the purpose of doing injury to others, while the latter class was composed of such
persons as had resorted to the arts and charms of divination and sorcery in order to protect
themselves and others from diabolical influence. They were both considered
as highly, if not equally, criminal. Fuller, in his" Profane State,
"thus speaks of them:" Better is it to lap one's pottage like a dog,
than to eat it mannerly, with a spoon of the Devil's giving.

Black witches hurt and do mischief; but, in deeds of darkness, there is no difference of colors.
The white and the black are both guilty alike in compounding with
the Devil.

"White witches pretended to extract their power from the mysterious virtues of certain plants. The following
form of charmed words was used in plucking them:--" Hail to thee, holy herb, Growing in the ground;
On the Mount of Calvarie, First wert thou found; Thou art good for many a grief, And healest many
a wound: In the name of sweet Jesu, I lift thee from the ground. "Then there was the evidence
of ocular fascination. The accused and the accusers were brought into the presence of the examining
magistrate, and the supposed witch was ordered to look upon the afflicted
persons; instantly upon coming within the glance of her eye, they
would scream out, and fall down as in a fit.

It was thought that an invisible and impalpable fluid darted from the eye of the witch, and
penetrated the brain of the bewitched. By bringing the witch so near that she could touch the
afflicted persons with her hand, the malignant fluid was attracted back into her hand, and the sufferers
recovered their senses. It is singular to notice the curious resemblance between this opinion--
the joint product of superstition and imposture-- and the results to which modern science has led us
in the discoveries of galvanism and animal electricity. The doctrine of fascination maintained
its hold upon the public credulity for a long time, and gave occasion
to the phrase, still in familiar use among us, of" looking upon a
person with an evil eye.

"Its advocates claimed, in its defence, the authority of the Cartesian
philosophy; but it cannot be considered, in an age of science and
reason, as having any better support than the rural superstition of
Virgil's simple shepherd, who thus complains of the condition of his
emaciated flock:--"

They look so thin, Their bones are barely covered with their skin. What magic has bewitched the
woolly dams? And what ill eyes beheld the tender lambs? "Witchcraft, in all ages and countries,
was recognized as a reality, just as much as any of the facts of nature, or incidents to which mankind
is liable. By the laws of all nations, Catholic and Protestant alike, in the old country and in the new,
it was treated as a capital offence, and classed with murder and other highest crimes, although regarded
as of a deeper dye and blacker character than them all. Indictments and trials of persons accused
of it were not, therefore, considered as of any special interest,
or as differing in any essential particulars from proceedings against
any other description of offenders.

There had been many such proceedings in the American colonies,-- more, perhaps, than have come
to our knowledge,-- previous to 1692. They were not looked upon as sufficiently extraordinary to be transferred,
from the oblivion sweeping like a perpetual deluge over the vast
multitude of human experiences, to the ark of history, which rescues
only a select few.

The following are the principal facts of this class of which we have information:-- William Penn
presided, in his judicial character, at the trial of two Swedish
women for witchcraft; the grand jury, acting under instructions from
him, having found bills against them.

They were saved, not in consequence of any peculiar reluctance to proceed against them arising out
of the nature of the alleged crime, but only from some technical defect in the indictment. If
it had not been for this accidental circumstance, as the annalist of Philadelphia suggests, scenes
similar to those subsequently occurring in Salem Village might have darkened the history of
the Quakers, Swedes, Germans, and Dutch, who dwelt in the City of Brotherly Love and the adjacent
colonies. There had been trials and executions for witchcraft in other parts of New England, and
excitements had obtained more or less currency in reference to the assaults of the powers of darkness upon
human affairs. These incidents prepared the way for the delusion in Salem,
and provided elements to form its character. They must not, therefore,
be wholly overlooked.

But the memorials for their elucidation are very defective. Hutchinson's" History of Massachusetts
"is, perhaps, the most valuable authority on the subject. He enjoyed an advantage over any other writer,
before, since, or hereafter, so far as relates to the witchcraft proceedings in 1692; for he had access to
all the records and documents connected with it, a great part of which have subsequently been
lost or destroyed. His treatment of that particular topic is more
satisfactory than can elsewhere be found.

But of
incidents of the sort that preceded it, his information appears to
have been very slight and unreliable.

It is a singular fact, that we know more of the history of the first
century of New England than was known by the most enlightened persons
of the intermediate century.

There was no regular organized newspaper press, the commemorative age had not begun, and none
seem to have been fully aware of the importance of putting events on record. The publication,
but a few years since, of the colonial journals of the first half-century of Massachusetts; researches
by innumerable hands among papers on file in public offices; the printing of town-histories, and the
collections made by historical and genealogical societies,-- have rescued from oblivion, and
redeemed from error, many points of the greatest interest and importance. Winthrop, in his" Journal,
"gives an account of the execution of Margaret Jones, of Charlestown,
who had been tried and condemned by the Court of Assistants.

The charges against her were, that she had a malignant touch, so that many persons,--" men, women, and
children, "-- on coming in contact with her, were" taken with deafness, vomiting, or other
violent pains or sickness; "that she practised physic, and her medicines," being such things as
(by her own confession) were harmless, as aniseed, liquors,& c., yet had extraordinary violent effects;
"and that they found on her body," upon a forced search, "the witchmarks,
particularly" a teat, as fresh if it had been newly sucked.

"Other ridiculous allegations were made against her. As for the effects of the touch, it is obvious
that they could be easily simulated by evil-disposed persons. The whole substance of her offence
seems to have been, that she was very successful in the use of simple prescriptions for the
cure of diseases. Her practice was charged as" against the ordinary course, and beyond the
apprehension of all physicians and surgeons. "A bitter animosity
was, accordingly, raised against her. She treated her accusers and defamers
with indignant resentment." Her behavior at her trial, "says Winthrop,"
was very intemperate, lying notoriously, and railing upon the jury
and witnesses,& c.; and, in the like distemper, she died.

"We shall find that the bold assertion of innocence, and indignant denunciations of the persecutors
and defamers who had destroyed their reputations and pursued them to the death, by persons tried
and executed for witchcraft, in 1692, were regarded by some, as they were by Winthrop, as proofs
of ill-temper and falsehood. The Governor closes his statement about Margaret Jones, by relating
what he regarded as a demonstration of her guilt:" The same day and hour she was executed, there
was a very great tempest at Connecticut, which blew down many trees,& c. "The records of the General
Court contain no express notice of this case. Perhaps it is referred to in the following paragraph,
under date of May 13, 1648:--" This Court, being desirous that the
same course which hath been taken in England for the discovery of
witches, by watching, may also be taken here, with the witch now in
question, and therefore do order that a strict watch be set about
her every night, and that her husband be confined to a private room,
and watched also.

"Margaret Jones was executed in Boston on the 15th of June. Hutchinson refers to the statement
made by Johnson, in the" Wonder-working Providence, "that" more than one or two in Springfield,
in 1645, were suspected of witchcraft; that much diligence was used, both for the finding them and for
the Lord's assisting them against their witchery; yet have they, as
is supposed, bewitched not a few persons, among whom two of the reverend
elder's children.

"Johnson's loose and immethodical narrative covers the period from 1645 till toward the end of 1651;
and Hutchinson was probably misled in supposing that the Springfield
cases occurred as early as 1645.

The Massachusetts colonial records, under the date of May 8, 1651, have this entry:--" The Court, understanding
that Mary Parsons, now in prison, accused for a witch, is likely, through weakness, to die before trial,
if it be deferred, do order, that, on the morrow, by eight o'clock in the morning, she be brought
before and tried by the General Court, the rather that Mr. Pinchon
may be present to give his testimony in the case.

"Mr. Pinchon was probably able to stay a few days longer. She was not brought to trial before the Court
until the 13th, under which date is the following:--" Mary Parsons, wife of Hugh Parsons, of
Springfield, being committed to prison for suspicion of witchcraft, as also for murdering her own child,
was this day called forth, and indicted for witchcraft. An agreement
has been made with the Utes by which they surrender their large reservation in Colorado in
consideration of an annuity to be paid to them, and agree to settle in severalty on certain
lands designated for that purpose, as farmers, holding individual title to their land in fee-simple,
inalienable for a certain period. In this way a costly Indian war has been avoided, which at
one time seemed imminent, and for the first time in the history of the country an Indian nation
has given up its tribal existence to be settled in severalty and to live as individuals under
the common protection of the laws of the country.

The conduct of the Indians throughout the country during the past year, with but few noteworthy
exceptions, has been orderly and peaceful. The guerrilla warfare carried on for two years by
Victoria and his band of Southern Apaches has virtually come to an end by the death of that
chief and most of his followers on Mexican soil. The disturbances caused on our northern frontier
by Sitting Bull and his men, who had taken refuge in the British dominions, are also likely
to cease. A large majority of his followers have surrendered to our military forces, and the
remainder are apparently in progress of disintegration.

I concur with the Secretary of the Interior in expressing the earnest hope that Congress will
at this session take favorable action on the bill providing for the allotment of lands on the
different reservations in severalty to the Indians, with patents conferring fee-simple title
inalienable for a certain period, and the eventual disposition of the residue of the reservations
for general settlement, with the consent and for the benefit of the Indians, placing the latter
under the equal protection of the laws of the country. This measure, together with a vigorous
prosecution of our educational efforts, will work the most important and effective advance
toward the solution of the Indian problem, in preparing for the gradual merging of our Indian
population in the great body of American citizenship.

A large increase is reported in the disposal of public lands for settlement during the past
year, which marks the prosperous growth of our agricultural industry and a vigorous movement
of population toward our unoccupied lands. As this movement proceeds, the codification of our
land laws, as well as proper legislation to regulate the disposition of public lands, become
of more pressing necessity, and I therefore invite the consideration of Congress to the report
and the accompanying draft of a bill made by the Public Lands Commission, which were communicated
by me to Congress at the last session. Early action upon this important subject is highly desirable.

The attention of Congress is again asked to the wasteful depredations committed on our public
timber lands and the rapid and indiscriminate destruction of our forests. The urgent necessity
for legislation to this end is now generally recognized. In view of the lawless character of
the depredations committed and the disastrous consequences which will inevitably follow their
continuance, legislation has again and again been recommended to arrest the evil and to preserve
for the people of our Western States and Territories the timber needed for domestic and other
essential uses.

The report of the Director of the Geological Survey is a document of unusual interest. The
consolidation of the various geological and geographical surveys and exploring enterprises,
each of which has heretofore operated upon an independent plan, without concert, can not fail
to be of great benefit to all those industries of the country which depend upon the development
of our mineral resources. The labors of the scientific men, of recognized merit, who compose
the corps of the Geological Survey, during the first season of their field operations and inquiries,
appear to have been very comprehensive, and will soon be communicated to Congress in a number
of volumes. The Director of the Survey recommends that the investigations carried on by his
bureau, which so far have been confined to the so-called public-land States and Territories,
be extended over the entire country, and that the necessary appropriation be made for this
purpose. This would be particularly beneficial to the iron, coal, and other mining interests
of the Mississippi Valley and of the Eastern and Southern States. The subject is commended
to the careful consideration of Congress.

The Secretary of the Interior asks attention to the want of room in the public buildings of
the capital, now existing and in progress of construction, for the accommodation of the clerical
force employed and of the public records. Necessity has compelled the renting of private buildings
in different parts of the city for the location of public offices, for which a large amount
of rent is annually paid, while the separation of offices belonging to the same Department
impedes the transaction of current business. The Secretary suggests that the blocks surrounding
Lafayette Square on the east, north, and west be purchased as the sites for new edifices for
the accommodation of the Government offices, leaving the square itself intact, and that if
such buildings were constructed upon a harmonious plan of architecture they would add much
to the beauty of the national capital, and would, together with the Treasury and the new State,
Navy, and War Department building, form one of the most imposing groups of public edifices
in the world.

The Commissioner of Agriculture expresses the confident belief that his efforts in behalf of
the production of our own sugar and tea have been encouragingly rewarded. The importance of
the results attained have attracted marked attention at home and have received the special
consideration of foreign nations. The successful cultivation of our own tea and the manufacture
of our own sugar would make a difference of many millions of dollars annually in the wealth
of the nation.

The report of the Commissioner asks attention particularly to the continued prevalence of an
infectious and contagious cattle disease known and dreaded in Europe and Asia as cattle plague,
or pleuro-pneumonia. A mild type of this disease in certain sections of our country is the
occasion of great loss to our farmers and of serious disturbance to our trade with Great Britain,
which furnishes a market for most of our live stock and dressed meats. The value of neat cattle
exported from the United States for the eight months ended August 31, 1880, was more than $12,000,000,
and nearly double the value for the same period in 1879--an unexampled increase of export trade.
Your early attention is solicited to this important matter.

The Commissioner of Education reports a continued increase of public interest in educational
affairs, and that the public schools generally throughout the country are well sustained. Industrial
training is attracting deserved attention, and colleges for instruction, theoretical and practical,
in agriculture and mechanic arts, including the Government schools recently established for
the instruction of Indian youth, are gaining steadily in public estimation. The Commissioner
asks special attention to the depredations committed on the lands reserved for the future support
of public instruction, and to the very great need of help from the nation for schools in the
Territories and in the Southern States. The recommendation heretofore made is repeated and
urged, that an educational fund be set apart from the net proceeds of the sales of the public
lands annually, the income of which and the remainder of the net annual proceeds to be distributed
on some satisfactory plan to the States and the Territories and the District of Columbia.

The success of the public schools of the District of Columbia, and the progress made, under
the intelligent direction of the board of education and the superintendent, in supplying the
educational requirements of the District with thoroughly trained and efficient teachers, is
very gratifying. The acts of Congress, from time to time, donating public lands to the several
States and Territories in aid of educational interests have proved to be wise measures of public
policy, resulting in great and lasting benefit. It would seem to be a matter of simple justice
to extend the benefits of this legislation, the wisdom of which has been so fully vindicated
by experience, to the District of Columbia.

I again commend the general interests of the District of Columbia to the favorable consideration
of Congress. The affairs of the District, as shown by the report of the Commissioners, are
in a very satisfactory condition.

In my annual messages heretofore and in my special message of December 19, 1879, I have urged
upon the attention of Congress the necessity of reclaiming the marshes of the Potomac adjacent
to the capital, and I am constrained by its importance to advert again to the subject. These
flats embrace an area of several hundred acres. They are an impediment to the drainage of the
city and seriously impair its health. It is believed that with this substantial improvement
of its river front the capital would be in all respects one of the most attractive cities in
the world. Aside from its permanent population, this city is necessarily the place of residence
of persons from every section of the country engaged in the public service. Many others reside
here temporarily for the transaction of business with the Government.

It should not be forgotten that the land acquired will probably be worth the cost of reclaiming
it and that the navigation of the river will be greatly improved. I therefore again invite
the attention of Congress to the importance of prompt provision for this much needed and too
long delayed improvement.

The water supply of the city is inadequate. In addition to the ordinary use throughout the
city, the consumption by Government is necessarily very great in the navy-yard, arsenal, and
the various Departments, and a large quantity is required for the proper preservation of the
numerous parks and the cleansing of sewers. I recommend that this subject receive the early
attention of Congress, and that in making provision for an increased supply such means be adopted
as will have in view the future growth of the city. Temporary expedients for such a purpose
can not but be wasteful of money, and therefore unwise. A more ample reservoir, with corresponding
facilities for keeping it filled, should, in my judgment, be constructed. I commend again to
the attention of Congress the subject of the removal from their present location of the depots
of the several railroads entering the city; and I renew the recommendations of my former messages
in behalf of the erection of a building for the Congressional Library, the completion of the
Washington Monument, and of liberal appropriations in support of the benevolent, reformatory,
and penal institutions of the District.

RUTHERFORD B. HAYES.

SPECIAL MESSAGES.

WASHINGTON, December 9, 1880.

R.B. HAYES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, December 13, 1880.

To the Senate of the United States:

The accompanying documents, received from the Commissioner of Agriculture, are transmitted
to the Senate in reply to the resolution of the 7th instant, relating to contagious diseases
of cattle.

R.B. HAYES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, January 5, 1881.

R.B. HAYES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, January 5, 1881.

To the Senate of the United States:

In response to the resolution of the Senate of June 21, 1879, I herewith transmit reports[42]
received from the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of War.

R.B. HAYES.

[Footnote 42: Transmitting statements of the number of soldiers and civilians killed and wounded,
number of Indians killed, value of property destroyed, and expenses incurred by the United
States in certain Indian wars from 1865 to 1879.]

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, January 10, 1881.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit herewith, for the consideration of the Senate, two treaties[43] signed at Peking
on the 17th of November, 1880, by the commissioners plenipotentiary of the United States and
China, respectively, together with a letter of the Secretary of State in relation thereto,
and accompanying papers.

R.B. HAYES.

[Footnote 43: (1) Regulation of Chinese immigration into the United States (2) commercial intercourse
and judicial procedure.]

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, January 10, 1881.

To the House of Representatives:

I submit herewith, for the information of the House of Representatives, copies of correspondence
with the Department of State relating to an invitation extended by the French Republic to this
Government to send one or more delegates to represent it at an international congress of electricians
to be held at Paris on the 15th day of September, 1881. It appears from the same correspondence
that an international exhibition of electricity is to be held at the palace of the Champs Élysées,
in Paris, from August 15, 1881, to the 15th of November following, and it is therefore suggested
by the French authorities that it might be well to invest the delegates selected to take part
in the international congress with the additional character of commissioners to the international
exhibition of electricity.

In view of the important scientific, industrial, and commercial interests designed to be promoted
by the proposed international congress of electricians and exhibition of electricity, I submit
the subject to your favorable consideration and recommend that a suitable appropriation be
made to enable this Government to accept the foregoing invitation by appointing one or more
delegates to attend the congress in question.

R.B. HAYES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, January 18, 1881.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

I have the honor to submit herewith the report of the Public Lands Commission, embracing the
history and a codification of the public-land laws; and I desire earnestly to invite the attention
of Congress to this important subject.

R.B. HAYES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, Washington, January 20, 1881.

To the Senate of the United States:

I transmit herewith to the Senate a letter from the Secretary of State, with accompanying papers,
in relation to the recent effort of the Government of the United States to bring about peace
between Chile and Peru and, Bolivia.

R.B. HAYES.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, February 1, 1881.

To the Senate and House of Representatives:

In compliance with the request of a large number of intelligent and benevolent citizens, and
believing that it was warranted by the extraordinary circumstances of the case, on the 18th
day of December, 1880, I appointed a commission consisting of George Crook and Nelson A. Miles,
brigadier-generals in the Army; William Stickney, of the District of Columbia, and Walter Allen,
of Massachusetts, and requested them to confer with the Ponca Indians in the Indian Territory,
and, if in their judgment it was advisable, also with that part of the tribe which remained
in Dakota, and "to ascertain the facts in regard to their removal and present condition so
far as was necessary to determine the question as to what justice and humanity required should
be done by the Government of the United States, and to report their conclusions and recommendations
in the premises."

The commission, in pursuance of these instructions, having visited the Ponca Indians at their
homes in the Indian Territory and in Dakota and made a careful investigation of the subject
referred to them, have reported their conclusions and recommendations, and I now submit their
report, together with the testimony taken, for the consideration of Congress. A minority report
by Mr. Allen is also herewith submitted.

On the 27th of December, 1880, a delegation of Ponca chiefs from the Indian Territory presented
to the Executive a declaration of their wishes, in which they stated that it was their desire
"to remain on the lands now occupied by the Poncas in the Indian Territory" and "to relinquish
all their right and interest in the lands formerly owned and occupied by the Ponca tribe in
the State of Nebraska and the Territory of Dakota;" and the declaration sets forth the compensation
which they will accept for the lands to be surrendered and for the injuries done to the tribe
by their removal to the Indian Territory. This declaration, agreeably to the request of the
chiefs making it, is herewith transmitted to Congress.

The public attention has frequently been called to the injustice and wrong which the Ponca
tribe of Indians has suffered at the hands of the Government of the United States. This subject
was first brought before Congress and the country by the Secretary of the Interior in his annual
report for the year 1877, in which he said:

  The case of the Poncas seems entitled to especial
  consideration at the hands of Congress. They have always been
  friendly to the whites. It is said, and, as far as I have been
  able to learn, truthfully, that no Ponca ever killed a
  white man. The orders of the Government have always met with
  obedient compliance at their hands. Their removal from their
  old homes on the Missouri River was to them a great hardship.
  They had been born and raised there. They had houses there in
  which they lived according to their ideas of comfort. Many
  of them had engaged in agriculture and possessed cattle and
  agricultural implements. They were very reluctant to leave all
  this, but when Congress had resolved upon their removal they
  finally overcame that reluctance and obeyed. Considering
  their constant good conduct, their obedient spirit, and the
  sacrifices they have made, they are certainly entitled to
  more than ordinary care at the hands of the Government, and I
  urgently recommend that liberal provision be made to aid them
  in their new settlement.

In the same volume the report of E.A. Howard, the agent of the Poncas, is published, which
contains the following:

       *       *       *       *       *

  I am of the opinion that the removal of the Poncas from the
  northern climate of Dakota to the southern climate of the
  Indian Territory at the season of the year it was done will
  prove a mistake, and that a great mortality will surely follow
  among the people when they shall have been here for a time and
  become poisoned with the malaria of the climate. Already the
  effects of the climate may be seen upon them in the ennui
  that seems to have settled upon each and in the large number
  now sick.

  It is a matter of astonishment to me that the Government
  should have ordered the removal of the Ponca Indians from
  Dakota to the Indian Territory without having first made
  some provision for their settlement and comfort. Before their
  removal was carried into effect an appropriation should have
  been made by Congress sufficient to have located them in their
  new home, by building a comfortable house for the occupancy
  of every family of the tribe. As the case now is, no
  appropriation has been made by Congress, except for a sum but
  little more than sufficient to remove them; no houses have
  been built for their use, and the result is that these people
  have been placed on an uncultivated reservation to live in
  their tents as best they may, and await further legislative
  action.

       *       *       *       *       *

  These Indians claim that the Government had no right to move
  them from their reservation without first obtaining from them
  by purchase or treaty the title which they had acquired
  from the Government, and for which they rendered a valuable
  consideration. They claim that the date of the settlement of
  their tribe upon the land composing their old reservation is
  prehistoric; that they were all born there, and that their
  ancestors from generations back beyond their knowledge were
  born and lived upon its soil, and that they finally acquired
  a complete and perfect title from the Government by a treaty
  made with the "Great Father" at Washington, which they claim
  made it as legitimately theirs as is the home of the white man
  acquired by gift or purchase.

       *       *       *       *       *

The subject was again referred to in similar terms in the annual report of the Interior Department
for 1878, in the reports of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs and of the agent for the Poncas,
and in 1879 the Secretary of the Interior said:

  That the Poncas were grievously wronged by their removal from
  their location on the Missouri River to the Indian Territory,
  their old reservation having, by a mistake in making the Sioux
  treaty, been transferred to the Sioux, has been at length and
  repeatedly set forth in my reports, as well as those of the
  Commissioner of Indian Affairs. All that could be subsequently
  done by this Department in the absence of new legislation to
  repair that wrong and to indemnify them for their losses
  has been done with more than ordinary solicitude. They were
  permitted to select a new location for themselves in the
  Indian Territory, the Quapaw Reserve, to which they had first
  been taken, being objectionable to them. They chose a tract of
  country on the Arkansas River and the Salt Fork northwest of
  the Pawnee Reserve. I visited their new reservation personally
  to satisfy myself of their condition. The lands they now
  occupy are among the very best in the Indian Territory in
  point of fertility, well watered and well timbered, and
  admirably adapted for agriculture as well as stock raising. In
  this respect their new reservation is unquestionably superior
  to that which they left behind them on the Missouri River.
  Seventy houses have been built by and for them, of far better
  quality than the miserable huts they formerly occupied in
  Dakota, and the construction of a larger number is now in
  progress, so that, as the agent reports, every Ponca family
  will be comfortably housed before January. A very liberal
  allowance of agricultural implements and stock cattle has been
  given them, and if they apply themselves to agricultural work
  there is no doubt that their condition will soon be far more
  prosperous than it has ever been before. During the first
  year after their removal to the Indian Territory they lost
  a comparatively large number of their people by death, in
  consequence of the change of climate, which is greatly to
  be deplored; but their sanitary condition is now very much
  improved. The death rate among them during the present year
  has been very low, and the number of cases of sickness
  is constantly decreasing. It is thought that they are now
  sufficiently acclimated to be out of danger.

       *       *       *       *       *

A committee of the Senate, after a very full investigation of the subject, on the 31st of May,
1880, reported their conclusions to the Senate, and both the majority and minority of the committee
agreed that "a great wrong had been done to the Ponca Indians." The majority of the committee say:

       *       *       *       *       *

  Nothing can strengthen the Government in a just policy to the
  Indians so much as a demonstration of its willingness to do
  ample and complete justice whenever it can be shown that it
  has inflicted a wrong upon a weak and trusting tribe. It is
  impossible for the United States to hope for any confidence to
  be reposed in them by the Indians until there shall be shown
  on their part a readiness to do justice. 

They were excitable and sensitive to an extraordinary degree. Their judgment, reason, and physical
systems, were subject to the power of their fancies and affections.

       One of her brothers, in consequence of being badly coquetted with
and jilted by a young widow, was thrown into an awful condition of
body and mind "for about three-quarters of a year."

  The reason, health, and heart of another were broken; and
  he sunk into an early grave, in consequence of having been crossed
  in love. The death of her sister Bayley may have been caused by
  the unhappy controversies in the village parish. We have seen,
  and shall see, the all but maniac condition to which excitement
  brought her own mind.

At last, the heaviest blow that can fall upon a fond wife suddenly snapped the brittle cord
of her life. These considerations must be borne in mind, while we attempt to explain her conduct,
and should throw the weight of pity and charity into the scales, if mortal judgment ventures to
estimate her guilt. They are known to the Infinite Mind, and never
overlooked by divine mercy.

I
have introduced these singular private details to illustrate what the documents all along show,-- that
the proceedings against persons charged with witchcraft, in 1692,
were instigated by all sorts of personal grudges and private piques,
many of them of long standing, fomented and kept alive by an unhappy
indulgence of unworthy feelings, always ready to mix themselves with
popular excitements, and leading all concerned headlong to the utmost
extent of mischief and wrong.

The case of Mary Bradbury has been allowed to occupy so large a space, because I desire to disabuse
the public mind of a great error on this subject. It has been too much supposed, that the sufferers
in the witchcraft delusion were generally of the inferior classes of society, and particularly
ignorant and benighted. They were the very reverse. They mostly belonged to families in the
better conditions of life, and, many of them, to the highest social
level.

They were all persons of great moral firmness and rectitude, as was demonstrated by their bearing under
persecutions and outrage, and when confronting the terrors of death.

Their names do not deserve reproach, and their memories ought to
be held in honor.

The following account of the examination of Elizabeth Cary of Charlestown, given by her husband,
Captain Cary, a shipmaster, has the highest interest, as written at the time by one who was
an eye-witness, and participated in the sufferings of the occasion:--
"May 24.-- I having heard, some days, that my wife was accused of
witchcraft; being much disturbed at it, by advice went to Salem Village,
to see if the afflicted knew her: we arrived there on the 24th of
May.

It happened
to be a day appointed for examination; accordingly, soon after our arrival,
Mr. Hathorne and Mr. Corwin,& c., went to the meeting-house, which
was the place appointed for that work.

The minister began with prayer; and, having taken care to get a convenient
place, I observed that the afflicted were two girls of about ten years old, and
about two or three others of about eighteen: one of the girls talked
most, and could discern more than the rest."

The prisoners were called in one by one, and, as they came in, were cried out at,& c. The prisoners
were placed about seven or eight feet from the justices, and the accusers between the justices
and them. The prisoners were ordered to stand right before the justices,
with an officer appointed to hold each hand, lest they should therewith
afflict them: and the prisoners'eyes must be constantly on the justices;
for, if they looked on the afflicted, they would either fall into
fits, or cry out of being hurt by them.

After an examination of the prisoners, who it was afflicted these girls,&
c., they were put upon saying the Lord's Prayer, as a trial of their
guilt.

After the afflicted seemed to be out of their fits, they would look steadfastly on some one
person, and frequently not speak; and then the justices said they
were struck dumb, and after a little time would speak again: then the justices
said to the accusers,'Which of you will go and touch the prisoner
at the bar?'Then the most courageous would adventure, but, before
they had made three steps, would ordinarily fall down as in a fit:
the justices ordered that they should be taken up and carried to the
prisoner, that she might touch them; and as soon as they were touched
by the accused, the justices would say,'They are well,'before I could
discern any alteration,-- by which I observed that the justices understood
the manner of it.

Thus far I was only as a spectator: my wife also was there part of the time, but no notice was taken of
her by the afflicted, except once or twice they came to her, and asked her name. But I, having an opportunity
to discourse Mr. Hale (with whom I had formerly acquaintance), I took his advice what I had best
do, and desired of him that I might have an opportunity to speak with her that accused my wife;
which he promised should be, I acquainting him that I reposed my trust in him. Accordingly, he came
to me after the examination was over, and told me I had now an opportunity
to speak with the said accuser, Abigail Williams, a girl eleven or twelve
years old; but that we could not be in private at Mr. Parris's house,
as he had promised me: we went therefore into the alehouse, where
an Indian man attended us, who, it seems, was one of the afflicted;
to him we gave some cider: he showed several scars, that seemed as
if they had been long there, and showed them as done by witchcraft,
and acquainted us that his wife, who also was a slave, was imprisoned
for witchcraft.

And now, instead of one accuser, they all came in, and began to tumble down like swine; and
then three women were called in to attend them. We in the room were all at a stand to see who
they would cry out of; but in a short time they cried out'Cary;'and,
immediately after, a warrant was sent from the justices to bring
my wife before them, who were sitting in a chamber near by, waiting
for this. Being brought before the justices, her chief accusers were
two girls.

My wife declared to the justices, that she never had any knowledge of them before that day. She
was forced to stand with her arms stretched out. I speaking something
against their cruel proceedings, they commanded me to be silent, or else
I should be turned out of the room. The Indian before mentioned was
also brought in, to be one of her accusers; being come in, he now (when before
the justices) fell down, and tumbled about like a hog, but said nothing.
The justices asked the girls who afflicted the Indian: they answered
she (meaning my wife), and that she now lay upon him. The justices ordered
her to touch him, in order to his cure, but her head must be turned
another way, lest, instead of curing, she should make him worse by
her looking on him, her hand being guided to take hold of his; but
the Indian took hold of her hand, and pulled her down on the floor
in a barbarous manner: then his hand was taken off, and her hand put
on his, and the cure was quickly wrought.

I being extremely troubled at their inhuman dealings, uttered a hasty speech,'That God would
take vengeance on them, and desired that God would deliver us out
of the hands of unmerciful men.'Then her mittimus was writ.

I did with difficulty and charge obtain the liberty of a room, but no beds in it; if there had
been, could have taken but little rest that night. She was committed to Boston prison; but
I obtained a habeas corpus to remove her to Cambridge prison, which is in our county of Middlesex.
Having been there one night, next morning the jailer put irons on her legs (having received
such a command); the weight of them was about eight pounds: these irons and her other afflictions
soon brought her into convulsion fits, so that I thought she would have died
that night.

I sent to entreat that the irons might be taken off; but all entreaties
were in vain, if it would have saved her life, so that in this condition
she must continue.

The trials at Salem coming on, I went thither to see how things were
managed: and finding that the spectre evidence was there received,
together with idle, if not malicious stories, against people's lives,
I did easily perceive which way the rest would go; for the same evidence
that served for one would serve for all the rest.

I acquainted her with her danger; and that, if she were carried
to Salem to be tried, I feared she would never return. I did my utmost
that she might have her trial in our own county; I with several others
petitioning the judge for it, and were put in hopes of it: but I soon
saw so much, that I understood thereby it was not intended; which put
me upon consulting the means of her escape, which, through the goodness
of God, was effected, and she got to Rhode Island, but soon found
herself not safe when there, by reason of the pursuit after her; from
thence she went to New York, along with some others that had escaped
their cruel hands, where we found his Excellency Benjamin Fletcher,
Esq., Governor, who was very courteous to us.

After this, some of my goods were seized in a friend's hands, with whom I had left them, and
myself imprisoned by the sheriff, and kept in custody half a day, and then dismissed; but to speak
of their usage of the prisoners, and the inhumanity shown to them at the time of their execution,
no sober Christian could bear. They had also trials of cruel mockings, which is the more, considering
what a people for religion, I mean the profession of it, we have been; those that suffered being
many of them church members, and most of them unspotted in their conversation, till their adversary
the Devil took up this method for accusing them. JONATHAN CARY. "The only account we have, written
by one who had actually experienced, in his own person, what it was to fall into the hands of
those who got up and carried on the prosecutions, is the following. Captain Alden had probably
been from an early stage in their operations in the eye of the accusing
girls.

He was meant, perhaps, by what often fell from them about" the tall
man in Boston. "We are left entirely to conjecture as to the reason
why they singled him out, as not one of them, we may be quite sure, had
ever seen him. It may be that some person who had experienced discipline
under his orders as a naval commander bore him a grudge, and took
pains to suggest his name to the girls, and provided them with the
coarse, vulgar, and ridiculous scandal they so recklessly poured out
upon him:--"

An Account how John Alden, Sr., was dealt with at Salem Village. "John
Alden, Sr., of Boston, in the county of Suffolk, mariner, on the
twenty-eighth day of May, 1692, was sent for by the magistrates of
Salem, in the county of Essex, upon the accusation of a company of
poor distracted or possessed creatures or witches; and, being sent
by Mr. Stoughton, arrived there on the 31st of May, and appeared at
Salem Village before Mr. Gedney, Mr. Hathorne, and Mr. Corwin."

Those wenches being present who played their juggling tricks, falling
down, crying out, and staring in people's faces, the magistrates demanded
of them several times, who it was, of all the people in the room,
that hurt them. One of these accusers pointed several times at one Captain
Hill, there present, but spake nothing. The same accuser had a man standing
at her back to hold her up. He stooped down to her ear: then she cried
out,'Alden, Alden afflicted her.'One of the magistrates asked her if
she had ever seen Alden. She answered,'No.'He asked her how she knew it
was Alden. She said the man told her so.

"Then all were ordered to go down into the street, where a ring was
made; and the same accuser cried out,'There stands Alden, a bold fellow,
with his hat on before the judges: he sells powder and shot to the Indians
and French, and lies with the Indian squaws, and has Indian papooses.'Then
was Alden committed to the marshal's custody, and his sword taken
from him; for they said he afflicted them with his sword.

After some hours, Alden was sent for to the meeting-house in the Village,
before the magistrates, who required Alden to stand upon a chair, to the
open view of all the people." The accusers cried out that Alden pinched
them then, when he stood upon the chair, in the sight of all the people,
a good way distant from them.

One of the magistrates bid the marshal to hold open Alden's hands,
that he might not pinch those creatures.

Alden asked them why they should think that he should come to that village
to afflict those persons that he never knew or saw before. Mr. Gedney
bid Alden to confess, and give glory to God.

Alden said he hoped he should give glory to God, and hoped he should never
gratify the Devil: but appealed to all that ever knew him, if they
ever suspected him to be such a person; and challenged any one that
could bring in any thing on their own knowledge, that might give suspicion
of his being such an one.

Mr. Gedney said he had known Alden many years, and had been at sea
with him, and always looked upon him to be an honest man; but now
he saw cause to alter his judgment.

Alden answered, he was sorry for that, but he hoped God would clear
up his innocency, that he would recall that judgment again; and added,
that he hoped that he should, with Job, maintain his integrity till
he died.

They bid Alden look upon the accusers, which he did, and then they fell down. Alden asked Mr. Gedney
what reason there could be given why Alden's looking upon him did not strike him down as well;
but no reason was given that I heard.

But the accusers were brought to Alden to touch them; and this touch,
they said, made them well.

Alden began to speak of the providence of God in suffering these creatures to accuse innocent
persons. Mr. Noyes asked Alden why he should offer to speak of the providence of God: God, by his providence
(said Mr. Noyes), governs the world, and keeps it in peace; and so went
on with discourse, and stopped Alden's mouth as to that. Alden told
Mr. Gedney that he could assure him that there was a lying spirit
in them; for I can assure you that there is not a word of truth in
all these say of me.

But Alden was again committed to the marshal, and his mittimus written.
"To Boston Alden was carried by a constable: no bail would be taken for him,
but was delivered to the prison-keeper, where he remained fifteen
weeks; and then, observing the manner of trials, and evidence then
taken, was at length prevailed with to make his escape. If
the present efficient and admirable system of banking is broken down, it will inevitably be
followed by a recurrence to other and inferior methods of banking. Any measure looking to such
a result will be a disturbing element in our financial system. It will destroy confidence and
surely check the growing prosperity of the country.

Believing that a measure for refunding the national debt is not necessarily connected with
the national banking law, and that any refunding act would defeat its own object if it imperiled
the national banking system or seriously impaired its usefulness, and convinced that section
5 of the bill before me would, if it should become a law, work great harm, I herewith return
the bill to the House of Representatives for that further consideration which is provided for
in the Constitution.

RUTHERFORD B. HAYES. 

Subject as it has been to the wildest excesses, human panegyric, in
all its shapes, may be safely devoted to a personage, whom it is hardly
possible to praise with sincerity, without feeling our disposition
improved.

In a beneficent, a sublime, and truly religious character, there is a sort of magnetic virtue,
which to those who are affectionately drawn towards it, though only in idea, communicates a portion
of itself. Hence arises, what we cannot too fondly cherish, the delight and the utility of commemorating
departed worth.

R.B. HAYES.

