That these tribes are a people of great antiquity, far greater than has been assigned to them,
is denoted by the considerations already mentioned. Their languages, their astronomy, their
architecture and their very ancient religion and mythology, prove this. But a people who live
without letters, must expect their history to perish with them. Tradition soon degenerates
into fable, and fable has filled the oldest histories of the world, with childish incongruities
and recitals of gross immoralities. In this respect, the Indian race have evinced less imagination
than the Greeks and Romans, who have filled the world with their lewd philosophy of genealogy,
but their myths are quite as rational and often better founded than those of the latter. To
restore their history from the rubbish of their traditions, is a hopeless task. We must rely
on other data, the nature of which has been mentioned. To seek among ruins, to decypher hieroglyphics,
to unravel myths, to study ancient systems of worship and astronomy, and to investigate vocabularies
and theories of language, are the chief methods before us; and these call for the perseverance
of Sysiphus and the clear inductive powers of Bacon. Who shall touch the scattered bones of
aboriginal history with the spear of truth, and cause the skeleton of their ancient society
to arise and live? We may never see this; but we may hold out incentives to the future scholar,
to labor in this department.

Of their origin, it is yet premature, on the basis of ethnology, to decide. There is no evidence--not
a particle, that the tribes came to the continent after the opening of the Christian era. Their
religion bears far more the characteristics of Zoroaster, than of Christ. It has also much
more that assimilates it to the land of Chaldea, than to the early days of the land of Palestine.
The Cyclopean arch, and the form of the pyramid, point back to very ancient periods. Their
language is constructed on a very antique plan of thought. Their symbolic system of picture
writing is positively the oldest and first form of recording ideas the world ever knew. The
worship of the sun is the earliest form of human idolatry. Their calendar and system of astronomy
reveal traits common to that of China, Persia, or Hindostan. Mr. Gallatin, from the consideration
of the languages alone, is inclined to think that they might have reached the continent within
five hundred years after the original dispersion. That they are of the Shemitic stock, cannot
be questioned. The only point to be settled, indeed, appears to be, from what branch of that
very widely dispersed, and intermingled race of idolaters and warriors they broke loose, and
how, and in what manner, and during what era, or eras, they found their way to these shores?

But, however these questions may be decided, this is certain, that civilization, government
and arts began to develope themselves first in the tropical regions of Mexico and Central America.
Mexico itself, in the process of time, became to the ancient Indian tribes, the Rome of America.
Like its proud prototype in Europe, it was invaded by one barbaric tribe after another, to
riot and plunder, but who, in the end, adopted the type of civilization, which they came to
destroy. Such was the origin of the Toltecs and the Aztecs, whom Cortez conquered.

When we turn our view from this ancient centre of Indian power, to the latitudes of the American
Republic, we find the territory covered, at the opening of the sixteenth century, with numerous
tribes, of divers languages, existing in the mere hunter state, or at most, with some habits
of horticulture superadded. They had neither cattle nor arts. They were bowmen and spearmen--roving
and predatory, with very little, if any thing, in their traditions, to link them to these prior
central families of men, but with nearly every thing in their physical and intellectual type,
to favor such a generic affiliation. They erected groups of mounds, to sacrifice to the sun,
moon and stars. They were, originally, fire-worshippers. They spoke ONE general class of transpositive
languages. They had implements of copper, as well as of silex, and porphyries. They made cooking
vessels of tempered clay. They carved very beautiful and perfect models of birds and quadrupeds,
out of stone, as we see in some recently opened mounds. They cultivated the most important
of all the ancient Mexican grains, the zea mays. They raised the tobacco plant, to be offered,
to their Gods, as frankincense. They used the Aztec drum in their religious ceremonies and
war dances. They employed the very ancient Asiatic art of recording ideas, by means of representative
devices. They believed in the oriental doctrines of transformation, and the power of necromancy.
Their oral fictions on this head, are so replete with fancy, that they might give scope to
the lyre of some future western Ovid. They held, with Pythagoras, the doctrine of the transmigration
of souls. They believed, indeed, in duplicate souls. They believed with Zoroaster, in the two
great creative and antagonistical principles of Ormusd and Ahriman, and they had THEN, and
have STILL, an influential and powerful order of priests, who uphold the principles of a sacred
fire.

To these principles, they appeal now, as they did in the days of the discovery. They believe
in the sacred character of Fire, and regard it as the mysterious element of the Universe, which
typifies the Divinity. They believe, and practice strictly, with the descendants of Abraham,
the law of separation, but not the practice of circumcision. With the ancient Phoenicians,
they attribute extraordinary powers, to the wisdom and subtlety of the Serpent, and this reptile
holds a high place in their mythology. They regard the Tortoise, as the original increment,
and medium of the creation of the Earth, and view the Bear and the Wolf as enchanted heroes
of supernatural energies. And they have adopted the devices of these three animals as the general
Totemic types and bond of their separation into clans. They are as observant as any of the
orientalists were, of the flight of birds. They draw, with the ancient Chaldeans, prognostications
from the clouds. They preserve the simple music of the Arcadian pipe, which is dedicated to
love. They people their woods and mountains, and romantic water-falls, with various classes
of wood and water nymphs, fairies and genii. They had anticipated the author of the "Rape of
the Lock" in the creation of a class of personal gnomes, who nimbly dance over the lineaments
of the human frame. They have a class of seers and prophets, who mutter from the ground, the
decisions of fate and Providence. They believe in the idea of ghosts, witchcraft, and vampires.
They place the utmost reliance on dreams and night visions. A dream and a revelation, are synonymous.
Councils are called, and battles are fought on the prognostications of a dream. They are astrologers
and star-gazers, and draw no small part of their mythology from the skies. They fast to obtain
the favor of the Deity, and they feast, at the return of the first fruits. They have concentrated
the wisdom and fancy of their forefathers and sages, in allegories and fables. With the Arabs,
they are gifted in the relation of fictitious domestic tales, in which necromancy and genii,
constitute the machinery of thought. With the ancient Mesopotamians, Persians and Copts, they
practice the old art of ideographic, or picture writing. They are excellent local geographers,
and practical naturalists. There is not an animal, fish, insect or reptile in America, whose
character and habitudes they do not accurately and practically know. They believe the earth
to be a plain, with four corners, and the sky a hemisphere of material substance-like brass,
or metal, through which the planets shine, and around which the sun and moon revolve. Over
all, they install the power of an original Deity, who is called the Great Spirit, who is worshipped
by fire, who is invoked by prayer, and who is regarded, from the cliffs of the Monadnock,[14]
to the waters of the Nebraska,[15] as omnipotent, immaterial, and omnipresent.

      [14] A mountain in New Hampshire, seen from the sea.

      [15] The Indian name of the river La Plate.

That this race has dwelt on the continent long centuries before the Christian era, all facts
testify. If they are not older as a people, than most of the present nations on the Asiatic
shores of the Indian ocean, as has been suggested, they are certainly anterior in age, to the
various groups of the Polynesian islands. They have, it is apprehended, taken the impress of
their character and mental ideocracy from the early tribes of Western Asia, which was originally
peopled, to a great extent, by the descendants of Shem. These fierce tribes crowded each other,
as one political wave trenches on another, till they have apparently traversed its utmost bounds.
How they have effected the traject here, and by what process, or contingency, are merely curious
questions, and can never be satisfactorily answered. The theory of a migration by Behring's
straits, is untenable. If we could find adequate motives for men to cross thence, we cannot
deduce the tropical animals. We cannot erect a history from materials so slender. It may yield
one element of population; but we require the origin of many. But while we seek for times and
nations, we have the indubitable evidences of the general event or events in the people before
us, and we are justified by philology alone, in assigning to it an epoch or epochs, which are
sufficiently remote and conformable to the laws of climate, to account for all the phenomena.
No such epoch seems adequate this side of the final overthrow of Babylon, or general dispersion
of mankind, or the period of the conquest of Palestine. One singular and extraordinary result,
in the fulfilment of a very ancient prophecy of the human family, may be noticed. It is this.
Assuming the Indian tribes to be of Shemitic origin, which is generally conceded, they were
met on this continent, in 1492, by the Japhetic race, after the two stocks had passed round
the globe by directly different routes. Within a few years subsequent to this event, as is
well attested, the humane influence of an eminent Spanish ecclesiastic, led to the calling
over from the coasts of Africa, of the Hamitic branch. As a mere historical question, and without
mingling it in the slightest degree with any other, the result of three centuries of occupancy,
has been a series of movements in all the colonial stocks, south and north, by which Japhet
has been immeasurably enlarged on the continent, while the called and not voluntary sons of
Ham, have endured a servitude, in the wide stretching vallies of the tents of Shem.[16]

      [16] Genesis, 9. 27.

Such are the facts which lend their interest to the early epoch of our history. They invite
the deepest study. Every season brings to our notice some new feature, in its antiquities,
which acts as a stimulus to thought and inquiry. It is evident that there is more aliment for
study and scrutiny in its obscure periods, than has heretofore been supposed. Vestiges of art
are found, which speak of elder and higher states of civilization, than any known to the nomadic
or hunter states. And the great activity which marks the present state of antiquarian and philological
inquiry, in the leading nations of Europe, adds deeply to our means and inducements to search
out the American branch of the subject. Man, as he views these results, gathers new hopes of
his ability to trace the wandering footsteps of early nations over the globe. There is a hope
of obtaining the ultimate principles of languages and national affinities. Already science
and exact investigation have accomplished the most auspicious and valuable results. The spirit
of research has enabled us to unlock many secrets, which have remained sealed up for centuries.
History has gleaned largely from the spirit of criticism; Ethnology has already reared a permanent
monument to her own intellectual labors, and promises in its results, to unravel the intricate
thread of ancient migration, and to untie the gordian knot of nations. Shall we not follow
in this path? Shall we not emulate the labors of a Belzoni, a Humboldt, and a Robinson?