 The marquis's
sword was produced in a moment, and the aggressor in great hazard of his life, as he had no
weapon of defence. He was no sooner waked from his reverie, than he begged pardon, and offered
to make all proper concessions for what he had done through mere inadvertency. The marquis
would have admitted his excuses, had there been any precedent of such an affront being washed
away without blood. A conclave of honour was immediately assembled; and after long disputes,
they agreed, that an involuntary offence, especially from such a kind of man, d'un tel homme,
might be attoned by concessions. That you may have some idea of the small beginning, from which
many gigantic quarrels arise, I shall recount one that lately happened at Lyons, as I had it
from the mouth of a person who was an ear and eye witness of the transaction. Two Frenchmen,
at a public ordinary, stunned the rest of the company with their loquacity. At length, one
of them, with a supercilious air, asked the other's name. "I never tell my name, (said he)
but in a whisper." "You may have very good reasons for keeping it secret," replied the first.
"I will tell you," (resumed the other): with these words he rose; and going round to him, pronounced,
loud enough to be heard by the whole company, "Je m'appelle Pierre Paysan; et vous etes un
impertinent." "My name is Peter Peasant, and you are an impertinent fellow." So saying, he
walked out: the interrogator followed him into the street, where they justled, drew their swords,
and engaged. He who asked the question was run through the body; but his relations were so
powerful, that the victor was obliged to fly his country, was tried and condemned in his absence;
his goods were confiscated; his wife broke her heart; his children were reduced to beggary;
and he himself is now starving in exile. In England we have not yet adopted all the implacability
of the punctilio. A gentleman may be insulted even with a blow, and survive, after having once
hazarded his life against the aggressor. The laws of honour in our country do not oblige him
either to slay the person from whom he received the injury, or even to fight to the last drop
of his own blood. One finds no examples of duels among the Romans, who were certainly as brave
and as delicate in their notions of honour as the French. Cornelius Nepos tells us, that a
famous Athenian general, having a dispute with his colleague, who was of Sparta, a man of a
fiery disposition, this last lifted up his cane to strike him. Had this happened to a French
petit maitre, death must have ensued: but mark what followed--The Athenian, far from resenting
the outrage, in what is now called a gentlemanlike manner, said, "Do, strike if you please;
but hear me." He never dreamed of cutting the Lacedemonian's throat; but bore with his passionate
temper, as the infirmity of a friend who had a thousand good qualities to overbalance that defect.

I need not expatiate upon the folly and the mischief which are countenanced and promoted by
the modern practice of duelling. I need not give examples of friends who have murdered each
other, in obedience to this savage custom, even while their hearts were melting with mutual
tenderness; nor will I particularize the instances which I myself know, of whole families ruined,
of women and children made widows and orphans, of parents deprived of only sons, and of valuable
lives lost to the community, by duels, which had been produced by one unguarded expression,
uttered without intention of offence, in the heat of dispute and altercation. I shall not insist
upon the hardship of a worthy man's being obliged to devote himself to death, because it is
his misfortune to be insulted by a brute, a bully, a drunkard, or a madman: neither will I
enlarge upon this side of the absurdity, which indeed amounts to a contradiction in terms;
I mean the dilemma to which a gentleman in the army is reduced, when he receives an affront:
if he does not challenge and fight his antagonist, he is broke with infamy by a court-martial;
if he fights and kills him, he is tried by the civil power, convicted of murder, and, if the
royal mercy does not interpose, he is infallibly hanged: all this, exclusive of the risque
of his own life in the duel, and his conscience being burthened with the blood of a man, whom
perhaps he has sacrificed to a false punctilio, even contrary to his own judgment. These are
reflections which I know your own good sense will suggest, but I will make bold to propose
a remedy for this gigantic evil, which seems to gain ground everyday: let a court be instituted
for taking cognizance of all breaches of honour, with power to punish by fine, pillory, sentence
of infamy, outlawry, and exile, by virtue of an act of parliament made for this purpose; and
all persons insulted, shall have recourse to this tribunal: let every man who seeks personal
reparation with sword, pistol, or other instrument of death, be declared infamous, and banished
the kingdom: let every man, convicted of having used a sword or pistol, or other mortal weapon,
against another, either in duel or rencountre, occasioned by any previous quarrel, be subject
to the same penalties: if any man is killed in a duel, let his body be hanged upon a public
gibbet, for a certain time, and then given to the surgeons: let his antagonist be hanged as
a murderer, and dissected also; and some mark of infamy be set on the memory of both. I apprehend
such regulations would put an effectual stop to the practice of duelling, which nothing but
the fear of infamy can support; for I am persuaded, that no being, capable of reflection, would
prosecute the trade of assassination at the risque of his own life, if this hazard was at the
same time reinforced by the certain prospect of infamy and ruin. Every person of sentiment
would in that case allow, that an officer, who in a duel robs a deserving woman of her husband,
a number of children of their father, a family of its support, and the community of a fellow-citizen,
has as little merit to plead from exposing his own person, as a highwayman, or housebreaker,
who every day risques his life to rob or plunder that which is not of half the importance to
society. I think it was from the Buccaneers of America, that the English have learned to abolish
one solecism in the practice of duelling: those adventurers decided their personal quarrels
with pistols; and this improvement has been adopted in Great Britain with good success; though
in France, and other parts of the continent, it is looked upon as a proof of their barbarity.
It is, however, the only circumstance of duelling, which savours of common sense, as it puts
all mankind upon a level, the old with the young, the weak with the strong, the unwieldy with
the nimble, and the man who knows not how to hold a sword with the spadassin, who has practised
fencing from the cradle. What glory is there in a man's vanquishing an adversary over whom
he has a manifest advantage? To abide the issue of a combat in this case, does not even require
that moderate share of resolution which nature has indulged to her common children. Accordingly,
we have seen many instances of a coward's provoking a man of honour to battle. In the reign
of our second Charles, when duels flourished in all their absurdity, and the seconds fought
while their principals were engaged, Villiers, Duke of Buckingham, not content with having
debauched the countess of Shrewsbury and publishing her shame, took all opportunities of provoking
the earl to single combat, hoping he should have an easy conquest, his lordship being a puny
little creature, quiet, inoffensive, and every way unfit for such personal contests.