To ease the silence that followed I suggested: "But if she has no family, wouldn't she have
been likely to stay with your people, and wouldn't that be the reason of your not hearing from
her?"

"Oh, no--I don't think she stayed." He seemed about to add: "If she could help it," but shut
his lips and slid the picture out of sight.

As soon as I got back to Paris I made enquiries, but without result. The Germans had been pushed
back from that particular spot after a fortnight's intermittent occupation; but their lines
were close by, across the valley, and Réchamp was still in a net of trenches. No one could
get to it, and apparently no news could come from it. For the moment, at any rate, I found
it impossible to get in touch with the place.

My enquiries about Mlle. Malo were equally unfruitful. I went to the address Réchamp had given
me, somewhere off in Passy, among gardens, in what they call a "Square," no doubt because it's
oblong: a kind of long narrow court with aesthetic-looking studio buildings round it. Mlle.
Malo lived in one of them, on the top floor, the concierge said, and I looked up and saw a
big studio window, and a roof-terrace with dead gourds dangling from a pergola. But she wasn't
there, she hadn't been there, and they had no news of her. I wrote to Réchamp of my double
failure, he sent me back a line of thanks; and after that for a long while I heard no more of him.

By the beginning of November the enemy's hold had begun to loosen in the Argonne and along
the Vosges, and one day we were sent off to the East with a couple of ambulances. Of course
we had to have military chauffeurs, and the one attached to my ambulance happened to be a fellow
I knew. The day before we started, in talking over our route with him, I said: "I suppose we
can manage to get to Réchamp now?" He looked puzzled--it was such a little place that he'd
forgotten the name. "Why do you want to get there?" he wondered. I told him, and he gave an
exclamation. "Good God! Of course--but how extraordinary! Jean de Réchamp's here now, in Paris,
too lame for the front, and driving a motor." We stared at each other, and he went on: "He
must take my place--he must go with you. I don't know how it can be done; but done it shall be."

Done it was, and the next morning at daylight I found Jean de Réchamp at the wheel of my car.
He looked another fellow from the wreck I had left in the Flemish hospital; all made over,
and burning with activity, but older, and with lines about his eyes. He had had news from his
people in the interval, and had learned that they were still at Réchamp, and well. What was
more surprising was that Mlle. Malo was with them--had never left. Alain had been got away
to England, where he remained; but none of the others had budged. They had fitted up an ambulance
in the château, and Mlle. Malo and the little sister were nursing the wounded. There were not
many details in the letters, and they had been a long time on the way; but their tone was so
reassuring that Jean could give himself up to unclouded anticipation. You may fancy if he was
grateful for the chance I was giving him; for of course he couldn't have seen his people in
any other way.

Our permits, as you know, don't as a rule let us into the firing-line: we only take supplies
to second-line ambulances, and carry back the badly wounded in need of delicate operations.
So I wasn't in the least sure we should be allowed to go to Réchamp--though I had made up my
mind to get there, anyhow.

We were about a fortnight on the way, coming and going in Champagne and the Argonne, and that
gave us time to get to know each other. It was bitter cold, and after our long runs over the
lonely frozen hills we used to crawl into the café of the inn--if there was one--and talk and
talk. We put up in fairly rough places, generally in a farm house or a cottage packed with
soldiers; for the villages have all remained empty since the autumn, except when troops are
quartered in them. Usually, to keep warm, we had to go up after supper to the room we shared,
and get under the blankets with our clothes on. Once some jolly Sisters of Charity took us
in at their Hospice, and we slept two nights in an ice-cold whitewashed cell--but what tales
we heard around their kitchen-fire! The Sisters had stayed alone to face the Germans, had seen
the town burn, and had made the Teutons turn the hose on the singed roof of their Hospice and
beat the fire back from it. It's a pity those Sisters of Charity can't marry....

Réchamp told me a lot in those days. I don't believe he was talkative before the war, but his
long weeks in hospital, starving for news, had unstrung him. And then he was mad with excitement
at getting back to his own place. In the interval he'd heard how other people caught in their
country-houses had fared--you know the stories we all refused to believe at first, and that
we now prefer not to think about.... Well, he'd been thinking about those stories pretty steadily
for some months; and he kept repeating: "My people say they're all right--but they give no
details."

"You see," he explained, "there never were such helpless beings. Even if there had been time
to leave, they couldn't have done it. My mother had been having one of her worst attacks of
rheumatism--she was in bed, helpless, when I left. And my grandmother, who is a demon of activity
in the house, won't stir out of it. We haven't been able to coax her into the garden for years.
She says it's draughty; and you know how we all feel about draughts! As for my father, he hasn't
had to decide anything since the Comte de Chambord refused to adopt the tricolour. My father
decided that he was right, and since then there has been nothing particular for him to take
a stand about. But I know how he behaved just as well as if I'd been there--he kept saying:
'One must act--one must act!' and sitting in his chair and doing nothing. Oh, I'm not disrespectful:
they were like that in his generation! Besides--it's better to laugh at things, isn't it?"
And suddenly his face would darken....

On the whole, however, his spirits were good till we began to traverse the line of ruined towns
between Sainte Menehould and Bar-le-Duc. "This is the way the devils came," he kept saying
to me; and I saw he was hard at work picturing the work they must have done in his own neighbourhood.

"But since your sister writes that your people are safe!"

"They may have made her write that to reassure me. They'd heard I was badly wounded. And, mind
you, there's never been a line from my mother."

"But you say your mother's hands are so lame that she can't hold a pen. And wouldn't Mlle.
Malo have written you the truth?"

At that his frown would lift. "Oh, yes. She would despise any attempt at concealment."

"Well, then--what the deuce is the matter?"

"It's when I see these devils' traces--" he could only mutter.

One day, when we had passed through a particularly devastated little place, and had got from
the curé some more than usually abominable details of things done there, Réchamp broke out
to me over the kitchen-fire of our night's lodging. "When I hear things like that I don't believe
anybody who tells me my people are all right!"

"But you know well enough," I insisted, "that the Germans are not all alike--that it all depends
on the particular officer...."

"Yes, yes, I know," he assented, with a visible effort at impartiality. "Only, you see--as
one gets nearer...." He went on to say that, when he had been sent from the ambulance at the
front to a hospital at Moulins, he had been for a day or two in a ward next to some wounded
German soldiers--bad cases, they were--and had heard them talking. They didn't know he knew
German, and he had heard things.... There was one name always coming back in their talk, von
Scharlach, Oberst von Scharlach. One of them, a young fellow, said: "I wish now I'd cut my
hand off rather than do what he told us to that night.... Every time the fever comes I see
it all again. I wish I'd been struck dead first." They all said "Scharlach" with a kind of
terror in their voices, as if he might hear them even there, and come down on them horribly.
Réchamp had asked where their regiment came from, and had been told: From the Vosges. That
had set his brain working, and whenever he saw a ruined village, or heard a tale of savagery,
the Scharlach nerve began to quiver. At such times it was no use reminding him that the Germans
had had at least three hundred thousand men in the East in August. He simply didn't listen....

III

The day before we started for Réchamp his spirits flew up again, and that night he became confidential.
"You've been such a friend to me that there are certain things--seeing what's ahead of us--that
I should like to explain"; and, noticing my surprise, he went on: "I mean about my people.
The state of mind in my milieu must be so remote from anything you're used to in your happy
country.... But perhaps I can make you understand...."

I saw that what he wanted was to talk to me of the girl he was engaged to. Mlle. Malo, left
an orphan at ten, had been the ward of a neighbour of the Réchamps', a chap with an old name
and a starred château, who had lost almost everything else at baccarat before he was forty,
and had repented, had the gout and studied agriculture for the rest of his life. The girl's
father was a rather brilliant painter, who died young, and her mother, who followed him in
a year or two, was a Pole: you may fancy that, with such antecedents, the girl was just the
mixture to shake down quietly into French country life with a gouty and repentant guardian.
The Marquis de Corvenaire--that was his name--brought her down to his place, got an old maid
sister to come and stay, and really, as far as one knows, brought his ward up rather decently.

Now and then she used to be driven over to play with the young Réchamps, and Jean remembered
her as an ugly little girl in a plaid frock, who used to invent wonderful games and get tired
of playing them just as the other children were beginning to learn how. But her domineering
ways and searching questions did not meet with his mother's approval, and her visits were not
encouraged. When she was seventeen her guardian died and left her a little money. The maiden
sister had gone dotty, there was nobody to look after Yvonne, and she went to Paris, to an
aunt, broke loose from the aunt when she came of age, set up her studio, travelled, painted,
played the violin, knew lots of people; and never laid eyes on Jean de Réchamp till about a
year before the war, when her guardian's place was sold, and she had to go down there to see
about her interest in the property.

The old Réchamps heard she was coming, but didn't ask her to stay. Jean drove over to the shut-up
chateau, however, and found Mlle. Malo lunching on a corner of the kitchen table. She exclaimed:
"My little Jean!" flew to him with a kiss for each cheek, and made him sit down and share her
omelet.... The ugly little girl had shed her chrysalis--and you may fancy if he went back once
or twice!

Mlle. Malo was staying at the chateau all alone, with the farmer's wife to come in and cook
her dinner: not a soul in the house at night but herself and her brindled sheep dog. She had
to be there a week, and Jean suggested to his people to ask her to Réchamp. But at Réchamp
they hesitated, coughed, looked away, said the sparerooms were all upside down, and the valet-de-chambre
laid up with the mumps, and the cook short-handed--till finally the irrepressible grandmother
broke out: "A young girl who chooses to live alone--probably prefers to live alone!"

There was a deadly silence, and Jean did not raise the question again; but I can imagine his
blue eyes getting obstinate.

Soon after Mlle. Malo's return to Paris he followed her and began to frequent the Passy studio.
The life there was unlike anything he had ever seen--or conceived as possible, short of the
prairies. He had sampled the usual varieties of French womankind, and explored most of the
social layers; but he had missed the newest, that of the artistic-emancipated. I don't know
much about that set myself, but from his descriptions I should say they were a good deal like
intelligent Americans, except that they don't seem to keep art and life in such water-tight
compartments. But his great discovery was the new girl. Apparently he had never before known
any but the traditional type, which predominates in the provinces, and still persists, he tells
me, in the last fastnesses of the Faubourg St. Germain. The girl who comes and goes as she
pleases, reads what she likes, has opinions about what she reads, who talks, looks, behaves
with the independence of a married woman--and yet has kept the Diana-freshness--think how she
must have shaken up such a man's inherited view of things! Mlle. Malo did far more than make
Réchamp fall in love with her: she turned his world topsy-turvey, and prevented his ever again
squeezing himself into his little old pigeon-hole of prejudices.

Before long they confessed their love--just like any young couple of Anglo-Saxons--and Jean
went down to Réchamp to ask permission to marry her. Neither you nor I can quite enter into
the state of mind of a young man of twenty-seven who has knocked about all over the globe,
and been in and out of the usual sentimental coils--and who has to ask his parents' leave to
get married! Don't let us try: it's no use. We should only end by picturing him as an incorrigible
ninny. But there isn't a man in France who wouldn't feel it his duty to take that step, as
Jean de Réchamp did. All we can do is to accept the premise and pass on.

Well--Jean went down and asked his father and his mother and his old grandmother if they would
permit him to marry Mlle. Malo; and they all with one voice said they wouldn't. There was an
uproar, in fact; and the old grandmother contributed the most piercing note to the concert.
Marry Mlle. Malo! A young girl who lived alone! Travelled! Spent her time with foreigners--with
musicians and painters! A young girl! Of course, if she had been a married woman--that is,
a widow--much as they would have preferred a young girl for Jean, or even, if widow it had
to be, a widow of another type--still, it was conceivable that, out of affection for him, they
might have resigned themselves to his choice. But a young girl--bring such a young girl to
Réchamp! Ask them to receive her under the same roof with their little Simone, their innocent
Alain....

He had a bad hour of it; but he held his own, keeping silent while they screamed, and stiffening
as they began to wobble from exhaustion. Finally he took his mother apart, and tried to reason
with her. His arguments were not much use, but his resolution impressed her, and he saw it.
As for his father, nobody was afraid of Monsieur de Réchamp. When he said: "Never--never while
I live, and there is a roof on Réchamp!" they all knew he had collapsed inside. But the grandmother
was terrible. She was terrible because she was so old, and so clever at taking advantage of
it. She could bring on a valvular heart attack by just sitting still and holding her breath,
as Jean and his mother had long since found out; and she always treated them to one when things
weren't going as she liked. Madame de Réchamp promised Jean that she would intercede with her
mother-in-law; but she hadn't much faith in the result, and when she came out of the old lady's
room she whispered: "She's just sitting there holding her breath."

The next day Jean himself advanced to the attack. His grandmother was the most intelligent
member of the family, and she knew he knew it, and liked him for having found it out; so when
he had her alone she listened to him without resorting to any valvular tricks. "Of course,"
he explained, "you're much too clever not to understand that the times have changed, and manners
with them, and that what a woman was criticised for doing yesterday she is ridiculed for not
doing to-day. Nearly all the old social thou-shalt-nots have gone: intelligent people nowadays
don't give a fig for them, and that simple fact has abolished them. They only existed as long
as there was some one left for them to scare." His grandmother listened with a sparkle of admiration
in her ancient eyes. "And of course," Jean pursued, "that can't be the real reason for your
opposing my marriage--a marriage with a young girl you've always known, who has been received
here--"

"Ah, that's it--we've always known her!" the old lady snapped him up.

"What of that? I don't see--"

"Of course you don't. You're here so little: you don't hear things...."

"What things?"

"Things in the air... that blow about.... You were doing your military service at the time...."

"At what time?"

She leaned forward and laid a warning hand on his arm. "Why did Corvenaire leave her all that
money--why?"

"But why not--why shouldn't he?" Jean stammered, indignant. Then she unpacked her bag--a heap
of vague insinuations, baseless conjectures, village tattle, all, at the last analysis, based,
as he succeeded in proving, and making her own, on a word launched at random by a discharged
maid-servant who had retailed her grievance to the cure's housekeeper. "Oh, she does what she
likes with Monsieur le Marquis, the young miss! She knows how...." On that single phrase the
neighbourhood had raised a slander built of adamant.

Well, I'll give you an idea of what a determined fellow Réchamp is, when I tell you he pulled
it down--or thought he did. He kept his temper, hunted up the servant's record, proved her
a liar and dishonest, cast grave doubts on the discretion of the cure's housekeeper, and poured
such a flood of ridicule over the whole flimsy fable, and those who had believed in it, that
in sheer shamefacedness at having based her objection on such grounds, his grandmother gave
way, and brought his parents toppling down with her.

All this happened a few weeks before the war, and soon afterward Mlle. Malo came down to Réchamp.
Jean had insisted on her coming: he wanted her presence there, as his betrothed, to be known
to the neighbourhood. As for her, she seemed delighted to come. I could see from Rechamp's
tone, when he reached this part of his story, that he rather thought I should expect its heroine
to have shown a becoming reluctance--to have stood on her dignity. He was distinctly relieved
when he found I expected no such thing.

"She's simplicity itself--it's her great quality. Vain complications don't exist for her, because
she doesn't see them... that's what my people can't be made to understand...."

I gathered from the last phrase that the visit had not been a complete success, and this explained
his having let out, when he first told me of his fears for his family, that he was sure Mlle.
Malo would not have remained at Réchamp if she could help it. Oh, no, decidedly, the visit
was not a success....

