The speaker was Lady Coryston's maid. She stood just within the doorway of the room where Marcia
was dressing for the Opera, delivering her message mechanically, but really absorbed in the
spectacle presented by the young girl before her. Sewell was an artist in her own sphere, and
secretly envious of the greater range of combination which Marcia's youth and beauty made possible
for the persons who dressed her, as compared with Lady Coryston. There are all kinds of subtle
variants, no doubt, in "black," such as Lady Coryston habitually wore; and the costliness of
them left nothing to be desired. But when she saw Marcia clothed in a new Worth or Paquin,
Sewell was sorely tempted to desert her elderly mistress and go in search of a young one.

"Come in, Sewell," cried Marcia. "What do you think of it?"

The woman eagerly obeyed her. Marcia's little maid, Bellows, did the honors, and the two experts,
in an ecstasy, chattered the language of their craft, while Marcia, amid her shimmering white
and pink, submitted good-humoredly to being pulled about and twisted round, till after endless
final touches, she was at last pronounced the perfect thing.

Then she ran across the passage to her mother's sitting-room. Lady Coryston had complained
of illness during the day and had not been down-stairs. But Marcia's experience was that when
her mother was ill she was not less, but more active than usual, and that withdrawal to her
sitting-room generally meant a concentration of energy.

Lady Coryston was sitting with a writing-board on her knee, and a reading-lamp beside her,
lighting a table covered with correspondence. Within her reach was a deep cupboard in the wall
containing estate and business letters, elaborately labeled and subdivided. A revolving bookcase
near carried a number of books of reference, and at her elbow, with the paper-knife inside
it, lay a copy of the Quarterly Review. The walls of the room were covered with books--a fine
collection of county histories, and a large number of historical memoirs and biographies. In
a corner, specially lit, a large bust of the late Lord Coryston conveyed to a younger generation
the troubled, interrogative look which in later life had been the normal look of the original.
His portrait by Holl hung over the mantelpiece, flanked on either side by water-color pictures
of his sons and daughter in their childhood.

There was only one comfortable chair in the room, and Lady Coryston never sat in it. She objected
to flowers as being in the way; and there was not a sign anywhere of the photographs and small
knick-knacks which generally belitter a woman's sitting--room. Altogether, an ugly room, but
characteristic, businesslike, and not without a dignity of its own.

"Mother!--why don't you rest a little?" cried Marcia, eying the black-robed figure and the
long pale face, marked by very evident fatigue. "You've been writing letters or seeing people
all day. How long did James stay?"

"About an hour."

"And Mr. Page?" Mr. Page was the agent of the main Coryston estate.

"Some time. There was a great deal to settle."

"Did you"--the girl fidgeted--"did you tell him about Coryston?"

"Certainly. He says there is only one house in the neighborhood he could take--"

"He has taken it." Marcia opened her right hand, in which she crushed a telegram. "Bellows
has just brought me this."

Lady Coryston opened and read it.

"Have taken Knatchett for three years. Tell mother." Lady Coryston's lips stiffened.

"He has lost no time. He can vex and distress us, of course. We shall have to bear it."

"Vex and distress us! I should think he can!" cried Marcia. "Has James been talking to him?"

"I dare say," said Lady Coryston, adding, with a slight, sarcastic laugh, "James is a little
too sure of being always in the right."

From which Marcia guessed that James had not only been talking to Coryston, but also remonstrating
with his mother, which no doubt accounted for Lady Coryston's worn-out looks. James had more
effect upon her than most people; though never quite effect enough.

Marcia stood with one foot on the fender, her gaze fixed on her mother in a frowning abstraction.
And suddenly Lady Coryston, lifting her eyes, realized her daughter, and the vision that she made.

"You look very well, Marcia. Have I seen that dress before?"

"No. I designed it last week. Ah!"--the sound of a distant gong made itself heard--"there's
the motor. Well, good night, mother. Take care of yourself and do go to bed soon."

She stooped to kiss her mother.

"Who's going with you?"

"Waggin and James. Arthur may come in. He thinks the House will be up early. And I asked Mr.
Lester. But he can't come for the first part."

Her mother held her sleeve and looked up, smiling. Lady Coryston's smiles were scarcely less
formidable than her frowns.

"You expect to see Edward Newbury?"

"I dare say. They have their box, as usual."

"Well!--run off and enjoy yourself. Give my love to Miss Wagstaffe."

"Waggin" was waiting in the hall for Marcia. She had been Miss Coryston's governess for five
years, and was now in retirement on a small income, partly supplied by a pension from Lady
Coryston. It was understood that when she was wanted to act duenna, she came--at a moment's
notice. And she was very willing to come. She lived in an Earl's Court lodging, and these occasional
expeditions with Marcia represented for her the gilt on her modest gingerbread. She was a small,
refined woman, with a figure still slender, gray hair, and a quiet face. Her dresses were years
old, but she had a wonderful knack of bringing them up-to-date, and she never did Marcia any
discredit. She adored Marcia, and indeed all the family. Lady Coryston called her "Miss Wagstaffe"--but
to the others, sons and daughter, she was only "Waggin." There were very few things about the
Coryston family she did not know; but her discretion was absolute.

As she saw Marcia running down-stairs her face lit up.

"My dear, what a lovely gown!--and how sweet you look!"

"Don't talk nonsense, Waggin!--and put on this rose I've brought for you!"

Waggin submitted while Marcia adorned her and gave various pats and pulls to her hair.

"There!--you look ten years younger," said the girl, with her bright look, stepping back. "But
where is James?"

The butler stepped forward.

"Mr. James will meet you at the Opera."

"Oh, good!" murmured Marcia in her companion's ear. "Now we can croon."

And croon they did through the long crowded way to Covent Garden. By the time the motor reached
St. Martin's Lane, Waggin was in possession of all that had happened. She had long expected
it, having shrewdly noted many signs of Lady Coryston's accumulating wrath. But now that "Corry,"
her dear "Corry," with whom she had fought so many a schoolroom fight in the days of his Eton
jackets, was really disinherited, her concern was great. Tears stood in her kind eyes. "Poor
Corry!" alternated in her mouth with "Your poor mother!" Sinner and judge appealed equally
to her pity.

Marcia meanwhile sat erect and fierce.

"What else could he expect? Father did leave the estates to mother--just because Corry had
taken up such views--so that she might keep us straight."

"But afterward! My dear, he is so young! And young men change."

Lady Coryston's death was not, of course, to be mentioned--except with this awe and vagueness--scarcely
to be thought of. But hotter revolutionists than Corry have turned Tories by forty. Waggin
harped on this theme.

Marcia shook her head.

"He won't change. Mother did not ask it. All she asked was--for her sake and father's--that
he should hold his tongue."

A flush sprang to Waggin's faded cheek.

"A man!--a grown man!" she said, wondering--"forbid him to speak out--speak freely?"

Marcia looked anxiously at her companion. It was very seldom that Waggin betrayed so much heat.

"I know," said the girl, gloomily--"'Your money or your life'--for I suppose it sounds like
that. Corry would say his convictions are his life. But why 'a man,' Waggin?" She straightened
her pretty shoulders. "I don't believe you'd mind if it were a woman. You don't believe in
a woman having convictions!"

Waggin looked a little bewildered.

"I'm old-fashioned, I suppose--but--"

Marcia laughed triumphantly.

"Why shouldn't Corry respect his mother's convictions? She wants to prove that women oughtn't
to shrink from fighting for what they believe, even--"

"Even with their sons?" said Waggin, tremulously. "Lady Coryston is so splendid--so splendid!"

"Even with their sons!" cried Marcia, vehemently. "You take it for granted, Waggin, that they
trample on their daughters!"

Waggin protested, and slipped her thin hand into the girl's. The note of storm in Marcia's
mood struck her sharply. She tried, for a moment, to change the subject. Who, she asked, was
a tall, fair girl whom she had seen with Mr. Arthur, "a week ago" at the National Gallery?
"I took my little niece--and suddenly I turned, and there at the end of the room were Mr. Arthur--and
this lady. Such a remarkable-looking young woman!--not exactly handsome--but you couldn't possibly
pass her over."

"Enid Glenwilliam!" exclaimed Marcia, with a startled voice. "But of course, Waggin, they weren't
alone?"

"Oh no--probably not!--though--though I didn't see any one else. They seemed so full of talk--I
didn't speak to Mr. Arthur. Who do you say she was?" repeated Waggin, innocently.

Marcia turned upon her.

"The daughter of the man mother hates most in the world! It's too bad of Arthur! It's abominable!
It would kill mother if she knew! I've heard things said sometimes--but I never believed them
for a moment. Oh, Waggin!--you didn't see them alone?"

The voice changed into what was almost a wail of indignation. "Of course Enid Glenwilliam would
never consider appearances for a moment. She does exactly what suits her. She never bothers
about chaperons, unless she absolutely must. When she sees what she wants she takes it. But
Arthur!"

Marcia leaned back in the car, and as in the crush of the traffic they passed under a lamp
Waggin saw a countenance of genuine distress.

"Oh, my dear, I'm so sorry to have worried you. How stupid of me to mention it! I'm sure there's
nothing in it."

"I've half suspected it for the last month," said Marcia with low-toned emphasis. "But I wouldn't
believe it!--I shall tell Arthur what I think of him! Though, mind you, I admire Enid Glenwilliam
myself enormously; but that's quite another thing. It's as though mother were never to have
any pleasure in any of us! Nothing but worry and opposition!--behind her back, too."

"My dear!--it was probably nothing! Girls do just as they like nowadays, and who notices!"
said Waggin, disingenuously. "And as to pleasing your mother, I know somebody who has only
to put out her hand--"

"To please mother--and somebody else?" said Marcia, turning toward her with perfect composure.
"You're thinking of Edward Newbury?"

"Who else should I be thinking of!--after all you told me last week?"

"Oh yes--I like Edward Newbury"--the tone betrayed a curious irritation--"and apparently he
likes me. But if he tries to make me answer him too soon I shall say No, Waggin, and there
will be an end of it!"

"Marcia--dearest!--don't be cruel to him!"

"No--but he mustn't press me! I've given him hints--and he won't take them. I can't make up
my mind, Waggin. I can't! It's not only marrying him--it's the relations. Yesterday a girl
I know described a week-end to me--at Hoddon Grey. A large, smart party--evening prayers in
the private chapel, before dinner!--nobody allowed to breakfast in bed--everybody driven off
to church--and such a fuss about Lent! It made me shiver. I'm not that sort, Waggin--I never
shall be."

And as again a stream of light from a music-hall facade poured into the carriage, Waggin was
aware of a flushed, rebellious countenance, and dark eyes full of some passionate feeling,
not very easy to understand.

"He is at your feet, dear goose!" murmured the little gray-haired lady--"make your own conditions!"

"No, no!--never. Not with Edward Newbury! He seems the softest, kindest--and underneath--iron!
Most people are taken in. I'm not."

There was silence in the car. Waggin was uneasily pondering. Nothing--she knew it--would be
more acceptable to Lady Coryston than this match, though she was in no sense a scheming mother,
and had never taken any special pains on Marcia's behalf. Her mind was too full of other things.
Still undoubtedly this would suit her. Old family--the young man himself heir presumptive to
a marquisate money--high character--everything that mortal mother could desire. And Marcia
was attracted--Waggin was certain of it. The mingled feeling with which she spoke of him proved
it to the hilt. And yet--let not Mr. Newbury suppose that she was to be easily run to earth!
In Waggin's opinion he had his work cut out for him.

Covent Garden filled from floor to ceiling with a great audience for an important "first night"--there
is no sight in London, perhaps, that ministers more sharply to the lust of modern eyes and
the pride of modern life. Women reign supreme in it. The whole object of it is to provide the
most gorgeous setting possible, for a world of women--women old and young--their beauty or
their jewels, their white necks and their gray heads; the roses that youth wears--divinely
careless; or the diamonds wherewith age must make amends for lost bloom and vanished years.

Marcia never entered the Coryston box, which held one of the most coveted positions on the
grand tier, without a vague thrill of exultation; that instinctive, overbearing delight in
the goods of Vanity Fair, which the Greek called hubris, and which is only vile when it outlives
youth. It meant in her--"I am young--I am handsome--the world is all on my side--who shall
thwart or deny me?" To wealth, indeed, Marcia rarely gave a conscious thought, although an
abundance of it was implied in all her actions and attitudes of mind. It would have seemed
to her, at any rate, so strange to be without it, that poverty was not so much an object of
compassion as of curiosity; the poverty, for instance, of such a man as Mr. Lester. But behind
this ignorance there was no hardness of heart; only a narrow inexperience.

The overture had begun--in a shadowy house. But the stream of the audience was still pouring
in from all sides, in spite of the indignant "Hush" of those who wanted not to lose a note
of something new and difficult. Marcia sat in the front of the box, conscious of being much
looked at, and raising her own opera-glass from time to time, especially to watch the filling
up of two rows of chairs on the floor, just below the lower tier of boxes. It was there that
Mr. Newbury had told her to look for him. James, who had joined them at the entrance of the
theater and was now hanging on the music, observed her once or twice uneasily. Presently he
bent over.

"Marcia--you vandal!--listen!"

The girl started and blushed.

"I don't understand the music, James!--it's so strange and barbarous."

"Well, it isn't Glueck, certainly," said James, smiling.

Marcia turned her face toward it. And as she did so there rose from the crash of its opening
tumult, like a hovering bird in a clear space of sky, a floating song of extraordinary loveliness.
It rose and fell--winds caught it--snatches of tempest overpowered it--shrieking demons rushed
upon it and silenced it. But it persisted; passing finally into a processional march, through
which it was still dimly, mysteriously traceable to the end.

"The song of Iphigenia!" said James. And as the curtain rose, "And here are the gulfs of Aulis,
and the Greek host."

The opera, by a young Bavarian of genius, a follower of Strauss, who had but recently captured
Munich and Berlin, was based on the great play of Euripides, freely treated by a translator
who had known, a hundred and fifty years after Glueck, how to make it speak, through music,
to more modern ears. It was carried through without any lowering of the curtain, and the splendid
story unfolded itself through a music at once sensuous and heroic, with a swiftness and a passion
which had soon gripped Covent Garden.

There, in a thousand ships, bound motionless by unrelenting winds, lies the allied host that
is to conquer Troy and bring back the stolen Helen. But at the bidding of Artemis, whose temple
crowns the coast, fierce, contrary blasts keep it prisoner in the harbor. Hellas cannot avenge
itself on the Phrygian barbarians who have carried off a free Greek woman. Artemis holds back
the hunters from the prey. Why? Because, as goddess of the land, she claims her toll, the toll
of human blood. Agamemnon, the leader of the host, distracted by fears of revolt and of the
break-up of the army, has vowed to Artemis the dearest thing he possesses. The answer is, "Your
daughter!--Iphigenia!"

Under pressure from the other chiefs of the host, and from the priests, the stricken father
consents at last to send a letter to Clytemnestra at Argos, bidding her bring their young daughter
to the camp, on the pretext that she is to become the bride of the hero Achilles. The letter
is no sooner despatched than, tormented with remorse, he tries to recall it. In vain. Mother
and child arrive, with the babe Orestes; the mother full of exultant joy in such a marriage,
the daughter thinking only of her father, on whose neck she throws herself with fond home prattle,
lifting Orestes to him to kiss, saying tender, touching things--how she has missed him--how
long the time has been....

The young singer, an American, with a voice and a magic reminding many an old frequenter of
Covent Garden, through all difference, of Giulia Ravogli in her prime, played this poignant
scene as though the superb music in which it was clothed was her natural voice, the mere fitting
breath of the soul.

Marcia sat arrested. The door of the box opened softly. A young man, smiling, stood in the
doorway. Marcia, looking round, flushed deeply; but in the darkness only Waggin saw it. The
girl beckoned to him. He came in noiselessly, nodded to James, bowed ceremoniously to Waggin,
and took a seat beside Marcia.

He bent toward her, whispering, "I saw you weren't very full, and I wanted to hear this--with you."

"She's good!" was all that Marcia could find to whisper in return, with a motion of her face
toward the Iphigenia.

"Yes--but only as part of the poem! Don't mistake it--please!--for the ordinary 'star'--business."

"But she is the play!"

"She is the idea! She is the immortal beauty that springs out of sorrow. Watch the contrast
between the death she shrinks from--and the death she accepts; between the horror--and the
greatness! Listen!--here is the dirge music beginning."

Marcia listened--with a strange tremor of pulse. Even through the stress of the music her mind
went wandering over the past weeks, and those various incidents which had marked the growth
of her acquaintance with the man beside her. How long had she known him? Since Christmas only?
The Newburys and the Corystons were now neighbors indeed in the country; but it was not long
since his father had inherited the old house of Hoddon Grey, and of the preceding three years
Edward Newbury had spent nearly two in India. They had first met at a London dinner party;
and their friendship, then begun, had ripened rapidly. But it was not till the Shrewsbury House
ball that a note of excitement, of uncertain or thrilled expectation, had crept into what was
at first a mere pleasant companionship. She had danced with him the whole night, reckless of
comment; and had been since, it seemed to her, mostly engaged in trying to avoid him. But to-night
there was no avoiding him. And as his murmured yet eager comments on the opera reached her,
she became more and more conscious of his feelings toward her, which were thus conveyed to
her, as it were, covertly, and indirectly, through the high poetry and passion of the spectacle
on which they both looked. With every stage of it Newbury was revealing himself; and exploring her.

Waggin smiled to herself in the darkness of the box. James and she once exchanged glances.
Marcia, to both of them, was a dim and beautiful vision, as she sat with her loosely clasped
hands lying on the edge of the box, her dark head now turned toward the stage, and now toward
Newbury.

       *       *       *       *       *

The ghastly truth had been revealed; Iphigenia, within earshot, almost, of the baffled army
clamoring for her blood, was clinging to her father's knees, imploring him to save her:

"Tears will I bring--my only cunning--all I have! Round your knees, my father, I twine this
body, which my mother bare you. Slay me not, before my time! Sweet, sweet is the light!--drive
me not down into the halls of death. 'Twas I first called you father--I, your firstborn. What
fault have I in Paris's sin? Oh, father, why, why did he ever come--to be my death? Turn to
me--give me a look--a kiss! So that at least, in dying, I may have that to remember--if you
will not heed my prayers."

She takes the infant Orestes in her arms:

"Brother!--you are but a tiny helper--and yet--come, weep with me!--come, pray our father not
to slay your sister. Look, father, how--silently--he implores you! Have pity! Oh, light, light,
dearest of all goods to men! He is mad indeed who prays for death. Better an ill living than
a noble dying!"

The music rose and fell like dashing waves upon a fearful coast--through one of the most agonizing
scenes ever imagined by poet, ever expressed in art. Wonderful theme!--the terror-stricken
anguish of the girl, little more than a child, startled suddenly from bridal dreams into this
open-eyed vision of a hideous doom; the helpless remorse of the father; the misery of the mother;
and behind it all the pitiless fate--the savage creed--the blood-thirst of the goddess--and
the maddened army howling for its prey.

Marcia covered her eyes a moment. "Horrible!" she said, shivering, "too horrible!"

Newbury shook his head, smiling.

"No! You'll see. She carries in her hands the fate of her race--of the Hellenic, the nobler
world, threatened by the barbarian, the baser world. She dies, to live. It's the motive of
all great art--all religion. Ah--here is Achilles!"

There followed the strangest, pitifulest love scene. Achilles, roused to fury by the foul use
made of his great name in the plot against the girl, adopts the shrinking, lovely creature
as his own. She has been called his bride; she shall be his bride; and he will fight for her--die
for her--if need be. And suddenly, amid the clashing horror of the story, there springs up
for an instant the red flower of love. Iphigenia stands dumb in the background, while her mother
wails, and Achilles, the goddess-born, puts on his armor and his golden-crested helmet. An
exultant sword-song rises from the orchestra. There is a gleam of hope; and the girl, as she
looks at her champion, loves him.

The music sank into tenderness, flowing like a stream in summer. And the whole vast audience
seemed to hold its breath.

"Marvelous!" The word was Newbury's.

He turned to look at his companion, and the mere energy of his feeling compelled Marcia's eyes
to his. Involuntarily, she smiled an answer.

But the golden moment dies!--forever. Shrieking and crashing, the vulture-forces of destruction
sweep upon it. Messengers rush in, announcing blow on blow. Achilles' own Myrmidons have turned
against him. Agamemnon is threatened--Achilles--Argos! The murderous cries of the army fill
the distance like the roar of an uncaged beast.

Iphigenia raises her head. The savage, inexorable music still surges and thunders round her.
And just as Achilles is about to leave her, in order to throw himself on the spears of his
own men, her trance breaks.

"Mother!--we cannot fight with gods. I die!--I die! But let me die gloriously--unafraid. Hellas
calls to me!--Hellas, my country. I alone can give her what she asks--fair sailing, and fair
victory. You bore me for the good of Hellas--not for your own joy only, mother! Shall men brave
all for women and their fatherland?--and shall one life, one little life, stand in their way?
Nay! I give my self to Hellas! Slay me!--pull down the towers of Troy! This through all time
shall be sung of me--this be my glory!--this, child and husband both. Hellas, through me, shall
conquer. It is meet that Hellenes should rule barbarians, and not barbarians Hellenes. For
they are slave-folk--and we are free!"

Achilles cries out in mingled adoration and despair. Now he knows her for what she is--now
that he has "looked into her soul"--must he lose her?--is it all over? He pleads again that
he may fight and die for her.

But she puts him gently aside.

"Die not for me, kind stranger. Slay no man for me! Let it be my boon to save Hellas, if I may."

And under her sternly sweet command he goes, telling her that he will await her beside the
altar of Artemis, there to give his life for her still, if she calls to him--even at the last
moment.

But she, tenderly embracing her mother, and the child Orestes, forbidding all thought of vengeance,
silencing all clamor of grief--she lifts the song of glorious death, as she slowly passes from
view, on her way to the place of sacrifice, the Greek women chanting round her.

"Hail, Hellas, Mother-land! Hail, light-giving Day--torch of Zeus!"

"To another life, and an unknown fate, I go! Farewell, dear light!--farewell!"

"That," said Newbury, gently, to Marcia only, as the music died away, "is the death--she accepts!"
The tears stood in the girl's eyes. The exaltation of great passion, great poetry, had touched
her; mingled strangely with the spell, the resisted spell, of youth and sex. Newbury's dark,
expressive face, its proud refinement, its sensitive feeling; the growing realization in her
of his strong, exacting personality; the struggle of her weaker will against an advancing master;
fascination--revolt; of all these things she was conscious as they both sat drowned in the
passion of applause which was swelling through the Opera House, and her eyes were still vaguely
following that white figure on the stage, with the bouquets at its feet....

Bright eyes sought her own; a hand reached out, caught hers, and pressed it. She recoiled--released
herself sharply. Then she saw that Edward Newbury had risen, and that at the door of the box
stood Sir Wilfrid Bury.

       *       *       *       *       *

Edward Newbury gave up his seat to Sir Wilfrid, and stood against the back of the box talking
to Waggin. But she could not flatter herself he paid much attention to her remarks. Marcia
could not see him; but his eyes were on her perpetually. A wonderfully handsome fellow, thought
Waggin. The profile and brow perfect, the head fine, the eyes full--too full!--of consciousness,
as though the personality behind burnt with too intense a flame. Waggin liked him, and was
in some sort afraid of him. Never did her small talk seem to her so small as when she launched
it at Edward Newbury. And yet no one among the young men of Marcia's acquaintance showed so
much courtesy to Marcia's "companion."

"Oh, very fine! very fine!" said Sir Wilfrid; "but I wanted a big fight--Achilles and his Myrmidons
going for the other fellows--and somebody having the decency to burn the temple of that hag
Artemis! I say!" He spoke, smiling, in Marcia's ear. "Your brother Arthur's in very bad company!
Do you see where he is? Look at the box opposite."

Marcia raised her opera-glass, and saw Enid Glenwilliam sitting in front of the box to which
Sir Wilfrid pointed her. The Chancellor's daughter was bending her white neck back to talk
to a man behind her, who was clearly Arthur Coryston. Behind her also, with his hands in his
pockets, and showing a vast expanse of shirt-front, was a big, burly man, who stood looking
out on the animated spectacle which the Opera House presented, in this interval between the
opera and the ballet, with a look half contemptuous, half dreamy. It was a figure wholly out
of keeping--in spite of its conformity in dress--with the splendid opera-house, and the bejeweled
crowd which filled it. In some symbolic group of modern statuary, it might have stood for the
Third Estate--for Democracy--Labor--personified. But it was a Third Estate, as the modern world
has developed it--armed with all the weapons of the other two!

"The Chancellor himself!" said Sir Wilfrid; "watching 'the little victims play'! I picture
him figuring up all these smart people. 'How much can I get out of you?--and you?'"

Marcia abruptly put down the glass she held, and turned to Sir Wilfrid. He was her godfather,
and he had been her particular friend since the days when they used to go off together to the
Zoo or the Pantomime.

"Do, please, talk to Arthur!" she said, eagerly, but so as not to be heard by any one else.
"Perhaps he'd listen to you. People are beginning to notice--and it's too, too dreadful. You
know what mother would feel!"

"I do," said Sir Wilfrid, gravely; "if that's what you mean." His eyes rested a moment on the
striking figure of the Chancellor's daughter. "Certainly--I'll put in a word. But she is a
very fascinating young woman, my dear!"

"I know," said Marcia, helplessly, "I know."

There was a pause. Then Sir Wilfrid asked:

"When do you go down to Coryston?"

"Just before Whitsuntide."

He looked round with a smile, saw that Edward Newbury was still in the box, and whispered,
mischievously:

"Hoddon Grey, too, I think, will not be empty?"

Marcia kept an indifferent face.

"I dare say. You're coming?" Sir Wilfrid nodded. "Oh, have you heard--?"

She murmured to him behind her fan. Sir Wilfrid knew all their history--had been her father's
most intimate friend. She gave him a rapid account of Coryston's disinheriting. The old man
rose, his humorous eyes suddenly grave.

"We'll talk of this--at Coryston. Ah, Newbury--I took your chair--I resign. Hullo, Lester--good
evening. Heavens, there's the curtain going up. Good night!"

He hurried away. Newbury moved forward, his eager look on Marcia. But she turned, smiling,
to the young librarian.

"You haven't seen this ballet, Mr. Lester?--Schumann's 'Carnival'? Oh, you mustn't stand so
far back. We can make room, can't we?" She addressed Newbury, and before he knew what had happened,
the chairs had been so manipulated that Lester sat between Marcia and Newbury, while Waggin
had drawn back into the shadow. The eyes of Marcia's duenna twinkled. It pleased her that this
magnificent young man, head, it was said, of the young High Church party, distinguished in
many ways, and as good as he was handsome, was not to have too easy a game. Marcia had clearly
lost her head a little at the Shrewsbury House ball; and was now trying to recover it.

CHAPTER IV

After one of those baffling fortnights of bitter wind and cold, which so often mark the beginning
of an English May, when all that the spring has slowly gained since March seems to be confiscated
afresh by returning winter, the weather had repented itself, the skies had cleared, and suddenly,
under a flood of sunshine, there were blue-bells in the copses, cowslips in the fields, a tawny
leaf breaking on the oaks, a new cheerfulness in the eyes and gait of the countryman.

A plain, pleasant-looking woman sat sewing out-of-doors, in front of a small verandaed cottage,
perched high on a hillside which commanded a wide view of central England. The chalk down fell
beneath her into a sheath of beech woods; the line of hills, slope behind slope, ran westward
to the sunset, while eastward they mounted to a wooded crest beyond which the cottage could
not look. Northward, beginning some six hundred feet below the cottage, stretched a wide and
varied country, dotted with villages and farms, with houses and woods, till it lost itself
in the haze of a dim horizon.

A man of middle age, gray-headed, spare in figure, emerged from one of the French windows of
the cottage.

"Marion, when did you say that you expected Enid?"

"Between three and four, papa."

"I don't believe Glenwilliam himself will get here at all. There will be a long Cabinet this
afternoon, and another to-morrow probably--Sunday or no Sunday!"

"Well then, he won't come, father," said the daughter, placidly, thrusting her hand into a
sock riddled with holes, and looking at it with concern.

"Annoying! I wanted him to meet Coryston--who said he would be here to tea."

Miss Atherstone looked a little startled.

"Will that do, father? You know Enid told me to ask Arthur Coryston, and I wrote yesterday."

"Do? Why not? Because of politics? They must have got used to that in the Coryston family!
Or because of the gossip that Arthur is to have the estates? But it's not his fault. I hear
the two brothers are on excellent terms. They say that Arthur has warned his mother that he
means to make it up to Coryston somehow."

"Enid doesn't like Lord Coryston," said Miss Atherstone, slowly.

"I dare say. He finds out her weak points. She has a good many. And he's not a ladies' man.
Between ourselves, my dear, she poses a good deal. I never know quite where to have her, though
I dandled her as a baby."

"Oh, Enid's all right," said Marion Atherstone, taking a fresh needleful of brown wool. Miss
Atherstone was not clever, though she lived with clever people, and her powers of expressing
herself were small. Her father, a retired doctor, on the other hand, was one of the ablest
Liberal organizers in the country. From his perch on the Mintern hills he commanded half the
midlands, in more senses than one; knew thirty or forty constituencies by heart; was consulted
in all difficulties; was better acquainted with "the pulse of the party" than its chief agent,
and was never left out of count by any important Minister framing an important bill.

He had first made friends with the man who was now the powerful head of English finance, when
Glenwilliam was the young check-weigher of a large Staffordshire colliery; and the friendship--little
known except to an inner ring--was now an important factor in English politics. Glenwilliam
did nothing without consulting Atherstone, and the cottage on the hill had been the scene of
many important meetings, and some decisions which would live in history.

Marion Atherstone, on the other hand, though invaluable to her father, and much appreciated
by his friends, took no intellectual part in his life. Brilliant creatures--men and women--came
and went, to and from the cottage. Marion took stock of them, provided them with food and lodging,
and did not much believe in any of them. Atherstone was a philosopher, a free-thinker, and
a vegetarian. Marion read the Church Family Times, went diligently to church, and if she had
possessed a vote, and cared enough about it to use it, would probably have voted Tory. All
the same she and her father were on the best of terms and perfectly understood each other.

Among the brilliant creatures, however, who came and went, there was one who had conquered
her. For Enid Glenwilliam, Marion felt the profound affection that often links the plain, scrupulous,
conscientious woman to some one or other of the Sirens of her sex. When Enid came to the cottage
Marion became her slave and served her hand and foot. But the probability is that she saw through
the Siren--what there was to see through--a good deal more sharply than her father did.

Atherstone took a garden chair beside her, and lit his pipe. He had just been engaged in drafting
an important Liberal manifesto. His name would probably never appear in connection with it.
But that mattered nothing to him. What did vex him was that he probably would not have an opportunity
of talking it over with Glenwilliam before it finally left his hands. He was pleased with it,
however. The drastic, or scathing phrases of it kept running through his head. He had never
felt a more thorough, a more passionate, contempt for his opponents. The Tory party must go!
One more big fight, and they would smash the unclean thing. These tyrants of land, and church,
and finance!--democratic England when it once got to business--and it was getting to business--would
make short work of them.

As he looked out over the plain he saw many things well fitted to stir the democratic pulse.
There among the woods, not a mile from the base of the hills, lay the great classic pile of
Coryston, where "that woman" held sway. Farther off on its hill rose Hoddon Grey, identified
in this hostile mind with Church ascendancy, just as Coryston was identified with landlord
ascendancy. If there were anywhere to be found a narrower pair of bigots than Lord and Lady
William Newbury, or a more poisonous reactionary than their handsome and plausible son, Atherstone
didn't know where to lay hands on them.

One white dot in the plain, however, gave him unmixed satisfaction. He turned, laughing to
his daughter.

"Coryston has settled in--with a laborer and his wife to look after him. He has all sorts of
ructions on his hands already."

"Poor Lady Coryston!" said Marion, giving a glance at the classical cupolas emerging from the
woods.

"My dear--she began it. And he is quite right--he has a public duty to these estates."

"Couldn't he go and stir up people somewhere else? It looks so ugly."

"Oh! women have got to get used to these things, if they play such strong parts as Lady Coryston.
The old kid-glove days, as between men and women, are over."

"Even between mothers and sons?" said Marion, dubiously.

"I repeat--she began it! Monstrous, that that man should have made such a will, and that a
mother should have taken advantage of it!"

"Suppose she had been a Liberal," said Marion, slyly.

Atherstone shrugged his shoulders--too honest to reply.

He ruminated over his pipe. Presently his eyes flashed.

"I hear Coryston's very servants--his man and wife--were evicted from their cottage for political
reasons."

"Yes, by that Radical miller who lives at Martover," said Marion.

Atherstone stared.

"My dear!--"

"The wife told me," said Marion, calmly, rolling up her socks.

"I say, I must look into that," said Atherstone, with discomposure. "It doesn't do to have
such stories going round--on our side. I wonder why Coryston chose them."

"I should think--because he hates that kind of thing on both sides." The slightest twinge of
red might have been noticed on Miss Atherstone's cheek as she spoke. But her father did not
notice it. He lifted his head to listen.

"I think I hear the motor."

"You look tired," said Marion to her guest. The first bout of conversation was over, and Dr.
Atherstone had gone back to his letters.

Enid Glenwilliam took off her hat, accepted the cushion which her hostess was pressing upon
her, and lay at ease in her cane chair.

"You wouldn't wonder, if you could reckon up my week!" she said, laughing. "Let's see--four
dinners, three balls, two operas,--a week-end at Windsor, two bazars, three meetings, two concerts,
and tea-parties galore! What do you expect but a rag!"

"Don't say you don't like it!"

"Oh yes, I like it. At least, if people don't ask me to things I'm insulted, and when they do--"

"You're bored?"

"It's you finished the sentence!--not I! And I've scarcely seen father this week except at
breakfast. That's bored me horribly."

"What have you really been doing?"

"Inquisitor!--I have been amusing myself."

"With Arthur Coryston?"

Marion turned her large fresh-colored face and small gray eyes upon her companion.

"And others! You don't imagine I confine myself to him?"

"Has Lady Coryston found out yet?"

"That we get on? I am sure she has never imagined that Mr. Arthur could so demean himself."

"But she must find out some day."

"Oh yes, I mean her to," said Miss Glenwilliam, quietly. She reached out a long hand toward
Marion's cat and stroked it. Then she turned her large eyes of pale hazel set under beautiful
dark brows to her companion. "You see--Lady Coryston has not only snubbed me--she has insulted
father."

"How?" exclaimed Marion, startled.

"At Chatton House the other day. She refused to go down to dinner with him. She positively
did. The table had to be rearranged, and little Lady Chatton nearly had hysterics."

The girl lay looking at her friend, her large but finely cut mouth faintly smiling. But there
was something dangerous in her eyes.

"And one day at lunch she refused to be introduced to me. I saw it happen quite plainly. Oh,
she didn't exactly mean to be insolent. But she thinks society is too tolerant--of people like
father and me."

"What a foolish woman!" said Marion Atherstone, rather helplessly.

"Not at all! She knows quite well that my whole existence is a fight--so far as London is concerned.
She wants to make the fight a little harder--that's all."

"Your 'whole existence a fight,'" repeated Marion, with a touch of scorn, "after that list
of parties!"

"It's a good fight at present," said the girl, coolly, "and a successful one. But Lady Coryston
gets all she wants without fighting. When father goes out of office I shall be nobody. She
will be always at the top of the tree."

"I am no wiser than before as to whether you really like Arthur Coryston or not. You have heard,
of course, the gossip about the estates?"

"Heard?" The speaker smiled. "I know not only the gossip--but the facts--by heart! I am drowned--smothered
in them. At present Arthur is the darling--the spotless one. But when she knows about me!"--Miss
Glenwilliam threw up her hands.

"You think she will change her mind again?"

The girl took up a stalk of grass and nibbled it in laughing meditation.

"Perhaps I oughtn't to risk his chances?" she said, looking sidelong.

"Don't think about 'chances,'" said Marion Atherstone, indignantly--"think about whether you
care for each other!"

"What a bourgeois point of view! Well, honestly--I don't know. Arthur Coryston is not at all
clever. He has the most absurd opinions. We have only known each other a few months. If he
were very rich--By the way, is he coming this afternoon? And may I have a cigarette?"

Marion handed cigarettes. The click of a garden gate in the distance caught her ear.

"Here they are--he and Lord Coryston."

Enid Glenwilliam lit her cigarette, and made no move. Her slender, long-limbed body, as it
lay at ease in the deep garden chair, the pale masses of her hair, and the confident quiet
face beneath it, made a charming impression of graceful repose. As Arthur Coryston reached
her she held out a welcoming hand, and her eyes greeted him--a gay, significant look.

Coryston, having shaken hands with Miss Atherstone, hastily approached her companion.

"I didn't know you smoked," he said, abruptly, standing before her with his hands on his sides.

As always, Coryston made an odd figure. His worn, ill-fitting clothes, with their bulging pockets,
the grasshopper slimness of his legs and arms, the peering, glancing look of his eternally
restless eyes, were all of them displeasing to Enid Glenwilliam as she surveyed him. But she
answered him with a smile.

"Mayn't I?"

He looked down on her, frowning.

"Why should women set up a new want--a new slavery--that costs money?"

The color flew to her cheeks.

"Why shouldn't they? Go and preach to your own sex."

"No good!" He shrugged his shoulders. "But women are supposed to have consciences. And--especially--Liberal
women," he added, slowly, as his eyes traveled over her dress.

"And pray why should Liberal women be ascetics any more than any other kind of women?" she
asked him, quietly.

"Why?" His voice grew suddenly loud. "Because there are thousands of people in this country
perishing for lack of proper food and clothing--and it is the function of Liberals to bring
it home to the other thousands."

Arthur Coryston broke out indignantly:

"I say, Cony, do hold your tongue! You do talk such stuff!"

The young man, sitting where the whole careless grace of Miss Glenwilliam's person was delightfully
visible to him, showed a countenance red with wrath.

Coryston faced round upon him, transformed. His frown had disappeared in a look of radiant
good humor.

"Look here, Arthur, you've got the money-bags--you might leave me the talking. Has he told
you what's happened?"

The question was addressed to Miss Glenwilliam, while the speaker shot an indicating thumb
in his brother's direction.

The girl looked embarrassed, and Arthur Coryston again came to the rescue.

"We've no right to thrust our family affairs upon other people, Corry," he said, resolutely.
"I told you so as we walked up."

"Oh, but they're so interesting," was Coryston's cool reply as he took his seat by Marion Atherstone.
"I'm certain everybody here finds them so. And what on earth have I taken Knatchett for, except
to blazon abroad what our dear mother has been doing?"

"I wish to heaven you hadn't taken Knatchett," said Arthur, sulkily.

"You regard me as a nuisance? Well, I meant to be. I'm finding out such lots of things," added
Coryston, slowly, while his eyes, wandering over the plain, ceased their restlessness for a
moment and became fixed and dreamy.

Dr. Atherstone caught the last words as he came out from his study. He approached his guests
with an amused look at Coryston. But the necessary courtesies of the situation imposed themselves.
So long as Arthur Coryston was present the Tory son of his Tory mother, an Opposition M.P.
for a constituency, part of which was visible from the cottage garden, and a comparative stranger
to the Atherstones, it was scarcely possible to let Coryston loose. The younger brother was
there--Atherstone perfectly understood--simply because Miss Glenwilliam was their guest; not
for his own beaux yeux or his daughter's. But having ventured on to hostile ground, for a fair
lady's sake, he might look to being kindly treated.

Arthur, on his side, however, played his part badly. He rose indeed to greet Atherstone--whom
he barely knew, and was accustomed to regard as a pestilent agitator--with the indifferent
good breeding that all young Englishmen of the classes have at command; he was ready to talk
of the view and the weather, and to discuss various local topics. But it was increasingly evident
that he felt himself on false ground; lured there, moreover, by feelings he could hardly suppose
were unsuspected by his hosts. Enid Glenwilliam watched him with secret but sympathetic laughter;
and presently came to his aid. She rose from her seat.

"It's a little hot here, Marion. Shall I have time to show Mr. Coryston the view from the wood-path
before tea?"

Marion assented. And the two tall figures strolled away across a little field toward a hanging
wood on the edge of the hill.

"Will she have him?" said Coryston to Marion Atherstone, looking after the departing figures.

The question was disconcertingly frank. Marion laughed and colored.

"I haven't the slightest idea."

"Because there'll be the deuce to pay if she does," said Coryston, nursing his knees, and bubbling
with amusement. "My unfortunate mother will have to make another will. What the lawyers have
made out of her already!"

"There would be no reconciling her to the notion of such a marriage?" asked Atherstone, after
a moment.

"'If my son takes to him a wife of the daughters of Heth, what good shall my life be unto me?'"
quoted Coryston, laughing. "Good gracious, how handy the Bible comes in--for most things! I
expect you're an infidel, and don't know." He looked up curiously at Atherstone.

A shade of annoyance crossed Atherstone's finely marked face.

"I was the son of a Presbyterian minister," he said, shortly. "But to return. After all, you
know, Radicals and Tories do still intermarry! It hasn't quite come to that!"

"No, but it's coming to that!" cried Coryston, bringing his hand down in a slap on the tea-table.
"And women like my mother are determined it shall come to it. They want to see this country
divided up into two hostile camps--fighting it out--blood and thunder, and devilries galore.
Ay, and"--he brought his face eagerly, triumphantly, close to Atherstone's--"so do you, too--at
bottom."

The doctor drew back. "I want politics to be realities, if that's what you mean," he said,
coldly. "But the peaceful methods of democracy are enough for me. Well, Lord Coryston, you
say you've been finding out a lot of things in these few weeks you've been settled here. What
sort?"

Coryston turned an odd, deliberate look at his questioner.

"Yes, I'm after a lot of game--in the Liberal preserves just as much as the Tory. There isn't
a pin to choose between you! Now, look here!" He checked the items off on his fingers. "My
mother's been refusing land for a Baptist chapel. Half the village Baptist--lots of land handy--she
won't let 'em have a yard. Well, we're having meetings every week, we're sending her resolutions
every week, which she puts in the waste-paper basket. And on Sundays they rig up a tent on
that bit of common ground at the park gates, and sing hymns at her when she goes to church.
That's No. 1. No. 2--My mother's been letting Page--her agent--evict a jolly decent fellow
called Price, a smith, who's been distributing Liberal leaflets in some of the villages. All
sorts of other reasons given, of course--but that's the truth. Well, I sat on Page's doorstep
for two or three days--no good. Now I'm knocking up a shop and a furnace, and all the rest
of the togs wanted, for Price, in my back yard at Knatchett. And we've made him Liberal agent
for the village. I can tell you he's going it! That's No. 2. No. 3--There's a slight difficulty
with the hunt I needn't trouble you with. We've given 'em warning we're going to kill foxes
wherever we can get 'em. They've been just gorging chickens this last year--nasty beasts! That
don't matter much, however. No. 4--Ah-ha!"--he rubbed his hands--"I'm on the track of that
old hypocrite, Burton of Martover--"

"Burton! one of the best men in the country!" cried Atherstone, indignantly. "You're quite
mistaken, Lord Coryston!"

"Am I!" cried Coryston, with equal indignation--"not a bit of it. Talking Liberalism through
his nose at all the meetings round here, and then doing a thing--Look here! He turned that
man and his wife--Potifer's his name--who are now looking after me--out of their cottage and
their bit of land--why, do you think?--because the man voted for Arthur! Why shouldn't he vote
for Arthur? Arthur kissed his baby. Of course he voted for Arthur. He thought Arthur was 'a
real nice gentleman'--so did his wife. Why shouldn't he vote for Arthur? Nobody wanted to kiss
Burton's baby. Hang him! You know this kind of thing must be put a stop to!"

And, getting up, Coryston stamped up and down furiously, his small face aflame. Atherstone
watched him in silence. This strange settlement of Lady Coryston's disinherited son--socialist
and revolutionist--as a kind of watchman, in the very midst of the Coryston estates, at his
mother's very gates, might not after all turn out so well as the democrats of the neighborhood
had anticipated. The man was too queer--too flighty.

"Wait a bit! I think some of your judgments may be too hasty, Lord Coryston. There's a deal
to learn in this neighborhood--the Hoddon Grey estate, for instance--"

Coryston threw up his hands.

"The Newburys--my word, the Newburys! 'Too bright and good'--aren't they?--'for human nature's
daily food.' Such churches--and schools--and villages! All the little boys patterns--and all
the little girls saints. Everybody singing in choirs--and belonging to confraternities--and
carrying banners. 'By the pricking of my thumbs' when I see a Newbury I feel that a mere fraction
divides me from the criminal class. And I tell you, I've heard a story about that estate"--the
odd figure paused beside the tea-table and rapped it vigorously for emphasis--"that's worse
than any other villainy I've yet come across. You know what I mean. Betts and his wife!"

He paused, scrutinizing the faces of Atherstone and Marion with his glittering eyes.

Atherstone nodded gravely. He and Marion both knew the story. The neighborhood indeed was ringing
with it. On the one hand it involved the pitiful tale of a divorced woman; on the other the
unbending religious convictions of the Newbury family. There was hot championship on both sides;
but on the whole the Newbury family was at the moment unpopular in their own county, because
of the affair. And Edward Newbury in particular was thought to have behaved with harshness.

Coryston sat down to discuss the matter with his companions, showing a white heat of feeling.
"The religious tyrant," he vowed, "is the most hideous of all tyrants!"

Marion said little. Her grave look followed her guest's vehement talk; but she scarcely betrayed
her own point of view. The doctor, of course, was as angry as Coryston.

Presently Atherstone was summoned into the house, and then Coryston said, abruptly:

"My mother likes that fellow--Newbury. My sister likes him. From what I hear he might become
my brother-in-law. He sha'n't--before Marcia knows this story!"

Marion looked a little embarrassed, and certainly disapproving.

"He has very warm friends down here," she said, slowly; "people who admire him enormously."

"So had Torquemada!" cried Coryston. "What does that prove? Look here!"--he put both elbows
on the table, and looked sharply into Marion's plain and troubled countenance--"don't you agree
with me?"

"I don't know whether I do or not--I don't know enough about it."

"You mustn't," he said, eagerly--"you mustn't disagree with me!" Then, after a pause, "Do you
know that I'm always hearing about you, Miss Atherstone, down in those villages?"

Marion blushed furiously, then laughed.

"I can't imagine why."

"Oh yes, you can. I hate charity--generally. It's a beastly mess. But the things you do--are
human things. Look here, if you ever want any help, anything that a fellow with not much coin,
but with a pair of strong arms and a decent headpiece, can do, you come to me. Do you see?"

Marion smiled and thanked him.

Coryston rose.

"I must go. Sha'n't wait for Arthur. He seems to be better employed. But--I should like to
come up here pretty often, Miss Atherstone, and talk to you. I shouldn't wonder if I agreed
with you more than I do with your father. Do you see any objection?"

He stood leaning on the back of a chair, looking at her with his queer simplicity. She smiled back.

"Not the least. Come when you like."

He nodded, and without any further farewell, or any conventional message to her father, he
strode away down the garden, whistling.

Marion was left alone. Her face, the face of a woman of thirty-five, relaxed; a little rose-leaf
pink crept into the cheeks. This was the fourth or fifth time that she had met Lord Coryston,
and each time they had seemed to understand each other a little better. She put aside all foolish
notions. But life was certainly more interesting than it had been.

       *       *       *       *       *

Coryston had been gone some time, when at last his brother and Miss Glenwilliam emerged from
the wood. The tea-table was now spread in the shade, and they approached it. Marion tried to
show nothing of the curiosity she felt.

That Arthur Coryston was in no mood for ordinary conversation at least was clear. He refused
her proffered cup, and almost immediately took his leave. Enid subsided again into her long
chair, and Atherstone and Marion waited upon her. She had an animated, excited look, the reflection,
no doubt, of the conversation which had taken place in the wood. But when Marion and she were
left alone it was a long time before she disclosed anything. At last, when the golden May light
was beginning to fade from the hill, she sat up suddenly.

"I don't think I can, Marion; I don't think I can!"

"Can what?"

"Marry that man, my dear!" She bent forward and took her friend's hands in hers. "Do you know
what I was thinking of all the time he talked?--and he's a very nice boy--and I like him very
much. I was thinking of my father!"

She threw her head back proudly. Marion looked at her in some perplexity.

"I was thinking of my father," she repeated. "My father is the greatest man I know. And I'm
not only his daughter. I'm his friend. He has no one but me since my mother died. He tells
me everything, and I understand him. Why should I marry a man like that, when I have my father!
And yet of course he touches me--Arthur Coryston--and some day I shall want a home--and children--like
other people. And there is the money, if his mother didn't strip him of it for marrying me!
And there's the famous name, and the family, and the prestige. Oh yes, I see all that. It attracts
me enormously. I'm no ascetic, as Coryston has discovered. And yet when I think of going from
my father to that man--from my father's ideas to Arthur's ideas--it's as though some one thrust
me into a cave, and rolled a stone on me. I should beat myself dead, trying to get out! I told
him I couldn't make up my mind yet--for a long, long time."

"Was that kind?" said Marion, gently.

"Well, he seemed to like it better than a final No," laughed the girl, but rather drearily.
"Marion! you don't know, nobody can know but me, what a man my father is!"

And sitting erect she looked absently at the plain, the clear hardness of her eyes melting
to a passionate tenderness. It was to Marion as though the rugged figure of the Chancellor
overshadowed them; just as, at that moment, in the political sense, it overshadowed England.

CHAPTER V

Lady Coryston's quarters at Coryston Place were not quite so devoid of all the lighter touches
as her London sitting-room. The view from the windows, of the formal garden outside, with its
rows of white statues, leading to a winding lake, and parklike slopes beyond it, was certainly
cheerful. Coryston particularly disliked it, and had many ribald things to say about the statues,
which in his mad undergraduate days he had more than once adorned with caps of liberty, pipes,
mustaches, and similar impertinences. But most people were attracted by the hard brightness
of the outlook; and of light and sunshine--on sunny days--there was, at any rate, no lack.
Marcia had recently chosen a new chintz for the chairs and sofas, and one small group of photographs,
on a table beside the fireplace, were allowed to remind the spectator that the owner of the
room had once been a young mother, with a maternal pride in a bunch of fine children. Here
were Coryston, aged nine, on pony-back, pompously showing off; James, dreamily affable, already
a personage at seven; Arthur, fondling a cricket-bat, with a stiff mouth, hastily closed--by
order--on its natural grin; and Marcia, frowning and pouting, in fancy dress as "The Strawberry
Girl," just emerging, it seemed, from one battle-royal with her nurse, and about to plunge
into another.

Lady Coryston had just entered the room. She was alone, and she carried a pile of letters,
which she put down on the central writing-table. Then she went to one of the windows, which
on this May day was open, and stood, looking out, one long mittened hand resting vaguely on
the table that held the photographs. A commanding figure! She was in black, carrying her only
ornament, an embossed silver girdle and chatelaine, the gift of her husband in their first
year of marriage. As she paused, motionless, in the clear sunshine, her great height and her
great thinness and flatness brought out with emphasis the masculine carriage of the shoulders
and the strong markings of the face. In this moment of solitude, however, the mistress of Coryston
Place and of the great domain on which she looked, allowed herself an expression which was
scarcely that of an autocrat--at any rate of an autocrat at ease.

She was thinking of Coryston; and Coryston was giving her a good deal to think about. Of course
she had expected annoyance; but scarcely such annoyance as Coryston, it seemed, was now bent
on causing her. At bottom, she had always reckoned on her position as mother and woman. Coryston
might threaten, but that he should actually carry out such iniquities as he was now engaged
on, had been--she owned it--beyond her calculations.

For she had come down to find the whole neighborhood in a ferment, and many pleasant illusions,
in the shelter of which she had walked for years, both before and since her husband's death,
questioned, at least, and cracking, if not shattered. That the Corystons were model landlords,
that they enjoyed a feudal popularity among their tenants and laborers, was for Lady Coryston
one of the axioms on which life was based. She despised people who starved their estates, let
their repairs go, and squeezed the last farthing out of their tenants. Nor had she any sympathy
with people who owned insanitary cottages. It had been her fond belief that she at least possessed
none. And now here was Coryston, her eldest son, camped in the very midst of her property,
not as her friend and support, but as her enemy and critic; poking his nose into every corner
of the estates, taken in by every ridiculous complaint, preaching Socialism at full blast to
the laborers, and Land Acts to the farmers, stirring up the Nonconformists to such antics as
the Baptists had lately been playing on Sundays at her gates; discovering bad cottages, where
none were known to exist; and, in general, holding up his mother to blame and criticism, which,
as Lady Coryston most truly, sincerely, indignantly felt, was wholly undeserved.

This then was the "game" that Coryston had warned her of. He was actually playing it; though
she had never believed for one moment that he would ever do so. How was she to meet it? With
firmness, no doubt, and dignity. As to the firmness she had no fears; it was the dignity she
was anxious about.

Lady Coryston was a woman of conscience; although no doubt she had long ago harnessed her will
to her conscience, which revolved--sometimes heavily--in the rear. Still there the conscience
was, and periodically she had to take account of it. Periodically, it made her uncomfortable
on the subject of her eldest son. Periodically, it forced her to ask herself--as in this reverie
by the window--"How is it that, bit by bit, and year by year, he and I have drifted to this
pass? Who began it? Is it in any sense my fault?"

How was it, in the first place, that neither she nor his father had ever had any real influence
over this incorrigible spirit; that even in Corry's childish days, when his parents had him
at their mercy, they might punish, and thwart, and distress him, but could never really conquer
him? Lady Coryston could recall struggles with her son, whether at home or at school, which
turned her sick to think of.

Corry--for instance--at his preparatory school, taking a loathing to his head master, demanding
to be withdrawn, and stubbornly refusing to say why; the master's authority upheld by Corry's
parents; vindictive punishment; followed by sudden illness on the boy's part in the midst of
the commotion, and his return home, white-faced, silent, indomitable. It made her shiver to
remember how he had refused to be nursed by her or by any one but the old housekeeper at Coryston;
how for weeks he had scarcely spoken to his father or mother. Then had come the lad's justification--a
hideous cruelty charge against the head master; and on a quasi-apology from his father, Corry
had consented to forgive his parents.

And again--at Cambridge--another recollection clutched at memory; Corry, taking up the case
of a youth who had been sent down, according to him, unjustly--furious attacks on the college
authorities--rioting in college--ending of course in the summary sending down of Coryston also.
She and his father in their annoyance and disappointment had refused to listen to his explanations,
to let him defend himself indeed at all. His mother could see still Corry's strange hostile
look at her, on his first arrival at home, as much as to say, "Nothing to expect from you!"
She could still hear the hall door closing behind him as he went off on wanderings abroad and
in the East for what proved to be an absence of three years.

Yet there were some things she could remember on the other side, dating also from Corry's Cambridge
years. When her old father died, one Easter vacation, and she, who was deeply attached to him,
had arrived at Coryston after the funeral, worn out by misery and grief, there, suddenly, were
Corry's arms open to her, and his--almost timid--kiss on her cheek. The thought of those few
weeks when he had been so tender to her, and she had been too tired and sad for anything except
to lie still and accept the kindness of her husband and sons, was embittered to her by the
remembrance of all the fierce jars which had come after; but, at the moment, they were halcyon
days. As she thought of them now beside the open window, she was suddenly aware of a catch
in the throat, which she must instantly restrain. It was really too late for any such melting
between herself and Corry!

As to the scene which had taken place in the drawing-room of the St. James's Square house on
Coryston's hurried return home after his father's death, and the explanation to him of the
terms of his father's will, she had expected it, and had prepared for it. But it had been none
the less a terrible experience. The fierceness of Corry's anger had been indeed quietly expressed--he
had evidently schooled himself; but the words and phrases used by him had bitten into her mind.
His wrath had taken the form of a long summing up of the relations between himself and her
since his boyhood, of a final scornful attack on her supposed "principles," and a denunciation
of her love of power--unjustified, unwarranted power--as the cause of all the unhappiness in
their family life. He had not said it in so many words, but she knew very well that what he
meant was "You have refused to be the normal woman, and you have neither mind enough nor knowledge
enough to justify you. You have sacrificed everything to politics, and you don't understand
a single political problem. You have ruined your own life and ours for a barren intellectualism,
and it will leave you in the end a lonely and unhappy woman."

Well, well, she had borne with him--she had not broken with him, after all that. She would
have found a dozen ways of improving his position, of giving him back his inheritance, if he
had shown the smallest disposition to meet her, to compromise with her. But he had gone from
extravagance to extravagance, from outrage to outrage. And finally she had gathered up all
her strength and struck, for the family traditions, for the party's, the country's interests.
And of course she had been right--she had been abundantly right.

Drawing herself unconsciously erect, she looked out over the wide Coryston domain, the undulations
of the great estate as it stretched northward to the hills. Politics! She had been in politics
from her childhood; she had been absorbed in them through all her married life; and now, in
her later years, she was fairly consumed by the passion of them, by the determination to win
and conquer. Not for herself!--so at least her thoughts, judged in her own cause, vehemently
insisted; not for any personal motive whatever, but to save the country from the break-up of
all that made England great, from the incursions of a venomous rabble, bent on destroying the
upper class, the landed system, the aristocracy, the Church, the Crown. Woman as she was, she
would fight revolution to the last; they should find her body by the wall, when and if the
fortress of the old English life went down.

Glenwilliam!--in that name all her hatreds were summed up.

For there had arisen, during these latter years, a man of the people, to lead what Lady Coryston
called the "revolution"--a man who had suffered cruelties, so it was said, at the hands of
the capitalist and employing class; who, as a young miner, blacklisted because of the part
he had taken in a successful strike, had gone, cap in hand, to mine after mine, begging vainly
for work, his wife and child tramping beside him. The first wife and her child had perished,
so the legend ran, at any rate, of hardship and sheer lack of food. That insolent conspicuous
girl who was now the mistress of his house was the daughter of a second wife, a middle-class
woman, married when he was already in Parliament, and possessed of a small competence which
had been the foundation of her husband's political position. On that modest sum he had held
his ground; and upon it, while England was being stirred from end to end by his demagogue's
gift, he had built up a personal independence and a formidable power which had enabled him
to bargain almost on equal terms with the two great parties.

"We refused to pay his price," was the way in which Lady Coryston was accustomed to put it,
"so the Liberals bought him--dear!"

And he was now exacting from that luckless party the very uttermost farthing! Destruction of
the Church; conscription, with a view, no doubt, to turning a workman-led army, in case of
need, upon the possessing class; persecution of the landed interests; criminally heavy taxation--these
were Apollyon's weapons. And against such things even a weak woman must turn to bay--must fight
even her own heart, in the interests of her country.

"Did I choose my post in life for myself?--its duties, its responsibilities? It was as much
given to me as a soldier's place in the line of battle! Am I to shirk it because I am a woman?
The women have no more right to run away than the men--vote or no vote! Haven't we eyes to
see this ruin that's coming, and minds to baffle it with? If I make Corry rich?--and help thereby
to throw England to the dogs? Am I to give him what he says he hates--land and money--to use
for what I hate--and what his father hated? Just because he is my son--my flesh and blood?
He would scorn the plea himself--he has scorned it all his life. Then let him respect his mother--when
she does the same."

But meanwhile the "game," as Coryston was playing it?--what was to be done as to this episode
and that?

She sat down to her writing-table, still busily thinking, and reminding herself that her agent
Mr. Page was to come and see her at twelve. She had hoped to get some counsel and help out
of Arthur, now that the House was up for a fortnight. But Arthur had really been very inconsiderate
and tiresome so far. He had arrived so late for dinner on the Saturday that there had been
no time for talk, especially as there was a large party in the house. On Sunday he had taken
a motor, and had been away all day, paying--he said--some constituency visits. And now this
morning with the earliest train he was off to London, though there was really no occasion for
him whatever to go up there. He seemed rather unlike himself. His mother wondered if he was
ill. And she fell into some indignant reflections on the stuffy atmosphere and bad lighting
of the House of Commons. But ever since he knew that he was to have the estates his manner
seemed to have changed; not certainly in the direction of triumph or satisfaction. On the contrary,
he had once or twice said irritably to his mother that the will was ridiculous and ought not
to stand. She had been obliged to make it clear to him that the matter was not to be discussed.

Suddenly, as she sat there, distress seized her at the bare thought of any shadow between herself
and Arthur--Arthur, her darling, who was upholding his father's principles and hers in Parliament
with so much zeal and good feeling; who had never all his life--till these latter weeks--given
her so much as a cross word. Yet now that she could no longer chase the thought quite away,
she admitted, more and more frankly, that she was anxious. Was he in any money difficulties?
She must get James to find out. In love? She smiled. There were very few maidens in England,
whatever their pretensions, who would be likely to refuse Arthur Coryston. Let him only throw
the handkerchief, and his mother would soon do the rest. And indeed it was high time he set
up house for himself. There is a restlessness in a man which means--marriage; and a mother
soon becomes aware of it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Recalling her thoughts to the letters before her, Lady Coryston perceived among them a note
from Lady William Newbury asking her and Marcia to spend a week-end at Hoddon Grey. Lady Coryston
rather wearily reflected that she must no doubt accept. That young man was clearly in pursuit
of Marcia. What Marcia's own views were, her mother had not yet discovered. She seemed sometimes
glad to see him; sometimes entirely indifferent; and Lady Coryston thought she had observed
that her daughter's vacillations tried Edward Newbury's pride sorely, at times. But it would
end in a match--it was pretty certain to end in a match. Marcia was only testing her power
over a strong-willed man, who would capture her in the end. That being so, Lady Coryston acknowledged
that the necessary tiresome preliminaries must be gone through.

She hastily scrawled a note of acceptance, without any of the fond imaginings that would have
accompanied the act in the ordinary mother. Like all imperious women she disliked staying in
other people's houses, where she could not arrange her hours. And she had a particularly resentful
memory of a visit which she had paid with her husband to Lord and Lady William Newbury when
they were renting a house in Surrey, before they had inherited Hoddon Grey, and while Marcia
was still in the schoolroom. Never in her life had she been so ordered about. The strict rules
of the house had seemed to her intolerable. She was a martinet herself, and inclined to pay
all due attention to the observances of religion; but they must be her own observances, or
at least approved by her. To be expected to follow other people's observances set her aflame.
To make such a fuss, also, about your religion seemed to her indecorous and absurd. She remembered
with a satisfaction which was half ashamed, that she--who was always down at home to a half-past-eight
breakfast, and was accustomed to walk a mile to church--had insisted on breakfasting in her
own room, on Sunday, under the Newburys' roof, and had quite enjoyed Lady William's surprised
looks when they met at luncheon.

Well, now the thing had to be done again--for the settling of Marcia. Whether the atmosphere
of the family or the house would suit Marcia, her mother did not inquire. In the matters of
birth and money, nothing could be more appropriate. Lady Coryston, however, was mostly concerned
in getting it through quickly, lest it should stand in the way of things more important. She
was fond of Marcia; but her daughter occupied, in truth, only the fringe of her thoughts.

However, she duly put up her letter, and was addressing the envelope, when the door opened
to admit the head agent of the estate, Mr. Frederick Page.

Mr. Page was, in Lady Coryston's eyes, a prince of agents. Up till now she had trusted him
entirely, and had been more largely governed by his advice than her pride of rule would ever
have allowed her to confess. Especially had she found reason to be grateful to him for the
large amount of money he had lately been able to provide her with from the savings of the Coryston
estates, for political purposes. Lady Coryston was one of the largest subscribers to the party
funds in the kingdom; the coming election demanded an exceptional effort, and Page's economies
had made it almost easy. She greeted him with a peculiarly gracious smile, remembering perhaps
the letter of thanks she had received only the day before from the party headquarters.

The agent was still a young man, not much over forty, ruddy, good-looking, inclined to be plump,
and possessed of a manner calculated to win the confidence of any employer. He looked the pink
of discretion and capacity, and Lady Coryston had never discovered in him the smallest flaw
with regard to any of the orthodoxies she required, political or religious. He was a widower,
with two girls, who had often been allowed to play with Marcia.

It was clear to Lady Coryston's eyes at once that Mr. Page was much disturbed and upset. She
had expected it, of course. She herself was disturbed and upset. But she had perhaps hoped
that he would reassure her--make light of the situation.

He did nothing of the kind. On the contrary, the effects of an encounter he had just had with
Lord Coryston himself in the village street, before entering the park, were plainly visible
in the agent's bearing. He plunged at once into the subject.

"I fear, Lady Coryston, there is great trouble brewing on this estate!"

"You will stop it," she said, confidently; "you always have stopped it before--you and I together."

He shook his head.

"Ah, but--you see what makes the difference!"

"That Coryston is my son?--and has always been regarded as my heir? Certainly that makes a
difference," she admitted, unwillingly. "But his proceedings will soon disgust people--will
soon recoil on himself!"

Page looked up to see her pale profile, with its marked hollows in cheek and temple, outlined
on the white paneling of the room like some strong, hawkish face of the Renaissance. But, in
awe of her as he always was, she seemed to him a foolish woman. Why had she driven matters
to this extremity?

He poured out his budget of troubles. All the smoldering discontent which had always existed
on the estate had been set alight by Lord Coryston. He was trying to form a union among the
laborers, and the farmers were up in arms. He was rousing the dissenters against the Church
school of the estate. He was even threatening an inquiry into the state of some of his mother's
cottages.

Lady Coryston interrupted. Her voice showed annoyance. "I thought, Mr. Page, there were no
insanitary cottages on this property!"

Page hemmed and hawed. He had not the courage to say that if a landowner insists on spending
the reserve fund of an estate on politics, the estate suffers. He had found Lady Coryston large
sums for the party war-chest; but only a fool could expect him to build new cottages, and keep
up a high level of improvements, at the same time.

"I am doing what I can," he said, hurriedly. "There are certain things that must be done. I
have given orders."

"My son seems to have caught us napping," said Lady Coryston, rather grimly.

The agent passed the remark by. He inquired whether her ladyship was still determined to refuse
land for the Baptist chapel.

"Certainly! The minister they propose is a most mischievous person, I have no intention whatever
of extending his influence."

Page acquiesced. He himself would have made the Baptists happy with a half an acre, long since,
and so, in his belief, scotched a hornet's nest. But he had never breathed any suggestion of
the kind to Lady Coryston.

"I have done my best--believe me--to stop the Sunday disturbances," he said, "but in vain.
They are chiefly got up, however, by people from a distance. Purely political!"

"Of course. I am not to be intimidated by them," said Lady Coryston, firmly.

The agent's inner mind let loose a thought to the effect that the increasing influence of women
in politics did not seem to be likely to lead to peaceable living. But he merely remarked:

"I much regret that Lord Coryston should have addressed them himself last Sunday. I ventured
to tell his lordship so when I met him just now in the village."

Lady Coryston stiffened on her chair.

"He defended himself?"

"Hotly. And I was to tell you that with your leave he will call on you himself this afternoon
about the affair."

"My house is always open to my son," said Lady Coryston, quietly. But Page perceived the tremor
of battle that ran through her.

"As to his support of that blacksmith from Ling, whom he is actually setting up in business
at Knatchett itself--the man is turning out a perfect firebrand!--distributing Socialist leaflets
over the whole neighborhood--getting up a quarrel between some of the parents here in this
very village and our schoolmaster, about the punishment of a child--perfectly legitimate!--everything
in order!--and enrolling more members of Mr. Glenwilliam's new Land League--within a stone's-throw
of this house!--than I like to think of. I won't answer for this village, Lady Coryston, at
the next election, if Lord Coryston goes on with these proceedings!"

Lady Coryston frowned. She was not accustomed to be addressed in so pessimistic a tone, and
the mere mention of her arch-enemy-- Glenwilliam--had put defiance into her. With some dryness,
she preached energy, watchfulness, and a hopeful mind. The agent grasped the situation with
the quickness born of long acquaintance with her, and adroitly shifted his ground. He remarked
that at any rate Lord Coryston was making things uncomfortable all round; and he described
with gusto the raids upon some of the Radical employers and small cottage-owners of the district,
in the name of political liberty and decent housing, by which Coryston had been lately bewildering
the Radical mind. Lady Coryston laughed; but was perhaps more annoyed than amused. To be brought
down to the same level with Radical millers and grocers--and by her own son--was no consolation
to a proud spirit.

"If our cottages can be reasonably attacked, they must be put in order, and at once," she said,
with dignity. "You, Mr. Page, are my eyes and ears. I have been accustomed to trust you."

The agent accepted the implied reproach with outward meekness, and an inward resolve to put
Lady Coryston on a much stricter financial regime for the future.

A long conversation followed, at the end of which Mr. Page rose, with the remark:

"Your ladyship will be sorry to hear that Mr. Glenwilliam is to speak at Martover next month,--and
that it is already rumored Lord Coryston will be in the chair."

He had kept this bombshell to the last, and for various reasons he closely watched its effect.

Lady Coryston paled.

"We will have a Tory meeting here the same night, and my son Arthur shall speak," she said,
with vivacity.

Some odd thoughts arose in the mind of Mr. Page as he met the angry fire in the speaker's look.

"By all means. By the way, I did not know Mr. Arthur was acquainted with those strange people
the Atherstones?" he said, in a tone of easy interrogation, looking for his hat.

Lady Coryston was a little surprised by the remark.

"I suppose an M.P. must be acquainted with everybody--to some extent," she said, smiling. "I
know very well what his opinion of Mr. Atherstone is."

"Naturally," said Page, also smiling. "Well, good-by, Lady Coryston. I hope when you see Lord
Coryston this afternoon you will be able to persuade him to give up some of these extravagances."

"I have no power with him," she said, sharply.

"Why did you give up what you had?" thought the agent, as he took his departure. His long experience
of Lady Coryston, able as she was, and as he admitted her to be, in many respects, had in the
end only increased in him a secret contempt for women, inbred in all but a minority of men.
They seemed to him to have so little power of "playing the game"--the old, old game of success
that men understand so well; through compromise, cunning, give and take, shrewd and prudent
dealing. A kind of heady blundering, when caution and a few lies would have done all that was
wanted--it was this he charged them with--Lady Coryston especially.

And as to that nice but rather stupid fellow Arthur, what on earth could he be doing at the
Atherstones'? Had he--Page--come by chance on a secret,--dramatic and lamentable!--when, on
the preceding Saturday, as he was passing along the skirts of the wood bounding the Atherstones'
little property, on his way to one of the Coryston hill-farms, he had perceived in the distance--himself
masked by a thin curtain of trees--two persons in the wood-path, in intimate or agitated conversation.
They were Arthur Coryston and Miss Glenwilliam. He recognized the lady at once, had several
times seen her on the platform when her father spoke at meetings, and the frequent presence
of the Glenwilliams at the Atherstones' cottage was well known to the neighborhood.

By George!--if that did mean anything!

CHAPTER VI

Meanwhile on this May morning Marcia was reading in the park, not far from a footpath--a right
of way--leading from the village to the high road running east and west along the northern
boundary of the Coryston property. Round her the slopes were white with hawthorn under a thunderous
sky of blue and piled white cloud. The dappled forms of deer glanced through the twisted hawthorn
stems, and at her feet a trout-stream, entrancingly clear and clean, slipped by over its chalk
bottom--the gray-green weeds swaying under the slight push of the water. There was a mist of
blossom, and everywhere the fragrance of a bountiful earth, young once more.

Marcia, it must be confessed, was only pretending to read. She had some reason to think that
Edward Newbury might present himself at Coryston for lunch that day. If so, and if he walked
from Hoddon Grey--and, unlike most young men of his age, he was a great walker, even when there
was no question of grouse or golf--he would naturally take this path. Some strong mingled impulse
had placed her there, on his road. The attraction for her of his presence, his smile, his character
was irresistibly increasing. There were many days when she was restless and the world was empty
till he came. And yet there were other days when she was quite cold to him; when the thought
of giving her life into his hands made her cry "impossible"; when it seemed to her, as she
had said to Waggin, that she rather feared than loved him.

Edward Newbury indeed belonged to a type not common in our upper class, yet always represented
there, and in its main characteristics to be traced back at least to the days of Laud and the
Neoplatonists. It is a spiritual, a mystical type, developed under English aristocratic conditions
and shaped by them. Newbury had been brought up in a home steeped in high Anglican tradition.
His grandfather, old Lord Broadstone, had been one of the first and keenest supporters of the
Oxford movement, a friend of Pusey, Keble, and Newman, and later on of Liddon, Church, and
Wilberforce. The boy had grown up in a religious hothouse; his father, Lord William, had been
accustomed in his youth to make periodical pilgrimages to Christchurch as one of Pusey's "penitents,"
and his house became in later life a rallying-point for the High Anglican party in all its
emergencies. Edward himself, as the result of an intense travail of mind, had abandoned habitual
confession as he came to manhood, but he would not for the world have missed the week of "retreat"
he spent every year, with other Anglican laymen, under the roof of the most spiritual of Anglican
bishops. He was a joyous, confident, devoted son of the English church; a man governed by the
most definite and rigid beliefs, held with a pure intensity of feeling, and impervious to any
sort of Modernism.

At the same time his handsome person, his ardent and amiable temper, his poetic and musical
tastes, made him a very general favorite even in the most miscellaneous society. The enthusiastic
Christian was also a popular man of the world; and the esoteric elements in his character,
though perfectly well known to all who were in any degree his intimates, were jealously hidden
from the multitude, who welcomed him as a good-looking fellow and an agreeable companion. He
had been four years in the Guards, and some years in India, as private secretary to his uncle,
the Viceroy. He was a good shot, a passionate dancer, a keen musician; and that mysterious
note in him of the unbending and the inexorable only made him--in general--the more attractive
both to men and women, as it became apparent to them. Men scoffed at him, yet without ever
despising him. Perhaps the time was coming when, as character hardened, and the glamour of
youth dropped away, many men might hate him. Men like Coryston and Atherstone were beginning
indeed to be bitterly hostile. But these were possibilities which were only just emerging.

Marcia was well aware of Newbury's distinction; and secretly very proud of his homage. But
rebellion in her was still active. When, however, she asked herself, with that instinct for
self-analysis bred in the woman of to-day by the plays she sees, and half the tales she reads--"Why
is it he likes me?"--the half-sarcastic reply would still suggest itself--"No doubt just because
I am so shapeless and so formless--because I don't know myself what I want or what I mean to
be. He thinks he'll form me--he'll save my soul. Shall he?"

A footstep on the path made her look up, annoyed that she could not control a sudden burning
of the cheek. But the figure she expected was not there.

"Coryston!" she cried.

Her brother approached her. He seemed to be reciting verse, and she thought she caught some
words from a Shelley chorus which she knew, because he had made her learn it when she was a
child in the schoolroom. He threw himself down beside her.

"Well?"

Brother and sister had only met twice since Coryston's settlement at Knatchett--once in the
village street, and once when Marcia had invaded his bachelor quarters at Knatchett. On that
occasion she had discharged upon him all the sarcasm and remonstrance of which she was capable.
But she only succeeded in reminding herself of a bullfight of which she had once seen part
at San Sebastian. Her shafts stuck glittering in the bull's hide, but the bull barely shook
himself. There he stood--good-humored, and pawing.

To-day also Coryston seemed to be in high spirits. Marcia, on the other hand, gave him a look
half troubled, half hostile.

"Corry!--I wanted to speak to you. Are you really going to see mother this afternoon?"

"Certainly. I met Page in the village half an hour ago and asked him to announce me."

"I don't want to talk any more about all the dreadful things you've been doing," said Marcia,
with sisterly dignity. "I know it wouldn't be any good. But there's one thing I must say. I
do beg of you, Corry, not to say a word to mamma about--about Arthur and Enid Glenwilliam.
I know you were at the Atherstones on Saturday!"

The anxiety in the girl's face seemed to give a softer shade to its strong beauty. She went
on, appealingly:

"Arthur's told me a lot. He's quite mad. I've argued--and argued with him--but it's no good.
He doesn't care for anything--Parliament, mamma, the estates, anything--in comparison with
that girl. At present she's playing with him, and he's getting desperate. But I'm simply in
terror about mamma!"

Corry whistled.

"My dear, she'll have to know some time. As you say, he's in it, head over ears. No use your
trying to pull him back!"

"It'll kill her!" cried Marcia, passionately; "what's left of her, after you've done!"

Coryston lifted his eyebrows and looked long and curiously at his sister. Then he slowly got
up from the grass and took a seat beside her.

"Look here, Marcia, do you think--do you honestly think--that I'm the aggressor in this family
row?"

"Oh, I don't know--I don't know what to think!"

Marcia covered her face with her hands. "It's all so miserable!--" she went on, in a muffled
voice. "And this Glenwilliam thing has come so suddenly! Why, he hardly knew her, when he made
that speech in the House six weeks ago! And now he's simply demented! Corry, you must go and
argue with him--you must! Persuade him to give her up!"

She laid her hand on his arm imploringly.

Coryston sat silent, but his eyes laughed a little.

"I don't believe in her," he said at last, abruptly. "If I did, I'd back Arthur up through
thick and thin!"

"Corry!--how on earth can Arthur be happy if he marries her--how can he live in that set--the
son-in-law of that man! He'll have to give up his seat--nobody here would ever vote for him
again. His friends would cut him--"

"Oh come, come, my dear, we're not as bad as that!" said Coryston, impatiently.

But Marcia wailed on:

"And it isn't as if he had ideas and theories--like you--"

"Not a principle to his back!--I know," said Coryston, cheerfully. "I tell you again, I'd not
dissuade him; on the contrary, I'd shove him into it!--if she were the right sort. But she's
not. She's ruined by the luxury she's been living in. I believe--if you ask me--that she'd
accept Arthur for his money--but that she doesn't care one brass farthing about him. Why should
she?"

"Corry!"

"He's a fool, my dear, though a jolly one--and she's not been accustomed to living with fools.
She's got wits as sharp as gimlets. Well, well"--he got up from the seat--"can't talk any more
now. Now what is it exactly you want me to do? I repeat--I'm coming to see mother this afternoon."

"Don't let her guess anything. Don't tell her anything. She's a little worried about Arthur
already. But we must stop the madness before she knows anything. Promise!"

"Very well. For the present--I'm mum."

"And talk to him!--tell him it'll ruin him!"

"I don't mind--from my own point of view," said Coryston, surveying her with his hands on his
sides. Then suddenly his face changed. A cloud overshadowed it. He gave her a queer, cold look.

"Perhaps I have something to ask you," he said, slowly.

"What?" The tone showed her startled.

"Let me come and talk to you about that man whom all the world says you're going to marry!"

She stared at him, struck dumb for the moment by the fierceness of his voice and expression.
Then she said, indignantly:

"What do you mean, Corry!"

"You are deceived in him. You can't marry him!" he said, passionately. "At least let me talk
to you."

She rose and stood facing him, her hands behind her, her dark face as full of energy and will
as his own.

"You are thinking of the story of Mrs. Betts. I know it."

"Not as I should tell it!"

A moving figure in a distant field caught her attention. She made a great effort to master
her excitement.

"You may tell me what you like. But I warn you I shall ask him for his version, too."

Corry's expression changed. The tension relaxed.

"That's only fair," he said, indifferently. Then, perceiving the advancing man: "Ah, I see!--here
he is. I'm off. It's a bargain. I say nothing to mother--and do my best to make Arthur hang
himself. And I have it out with you--my small sister!--when we next meet."

He paused, looking at her, and in his strangely penetrating eyes there dawned, suddenly, the
rare expression that Marcia remembered--as of a grave yet angry tenderness. Then he turned
away, walking fast, and was soon invisible among the light shadows of a beech avenue, just
in leaf. Marcia was left behind, breathing quick, to watch the approach of Edward Newbury.

       *       *       *       *       *

As soon as he perceived Marcia under the shade of the hawthorns Newbury quickened his pace,
and he had soon thrown himself, out of breath, on the grass beside her.

"What a heavenly spot!--and what a morning! How nice of you to let me find you! I was hoping
Lady Coryston would give me lunch."

Radiant, he raised his eyes to her, as he lay propped on his elbows, the spring sun, slipping
through the thin blossom-laden branches overhead, dappling his bronzed face.

Marcia flushed a little--an added beauty. As she sat there in a white hat and dress, canopied
by the white trees, and lit by a warm reflected light, she stirred in Newbury's senses once
more a thrilling delight made all the keener perhaps by the misgiving, the doubts which invariably
accompanied it. She could be so gracious; and she could be so dumb and inaccessible. Again
and again he had been on the point of declaring himself during the last few weeks, and again
and again he had drawn back, afraid lest the decisive word from him should draw the decisive
word from her, and it should be a word of denial. Better--better infinitely--these doubts and
checks, than a certainty which would divide him from her.

This morning indeed he found her all girlish gentleness and appeal. And it made his own task
easier. For he also had matters on his mind. But she anticipated him.

"I want to talk to you about Corry--my brother!" she said, bending toward him.

There was a child in Marcia, and she could evoke it when she pleased. She evoked it now. The
young man before her hungered, straightway, to put out his arms to her--gathering her to him
caressingly as one does with the child that clings and confides. But instead he merely smiled
at her with his bright conscious eyes.

"I, too, want to talk to you about Coryston," he said, nodding.

"We know he's behaving dreadfully--abominably!" laughed Marcia, but with a puckered brow.

"Mr. Lester tells me there was a great attack on Lord and Lady William yesterday in the Martover
paper. Mother hasn't seen it yet--and I don't want to read it--"

"Don't!" said Newbury, smiling.

"But mother will be so ashamed, unhappy, when she knows! So am I. But I wanted to explain.
We suffer just as much. He's stirring up the whole place against mother. And now that he's
begun to attack you, I thought perhaps that if you and I--"

"Took counsel! Excellent!"

"We might perhaps think of some way of stopping it."

"He's much more acutely angry with us at present than with anything your mother does," said
Newbury, gravely! "Has he told you?"

"No, but--he means to," said the girl, hesitating.

"It is not unfair I think I should anticipate him. You will have his version afterward. I got
an extraordinary letter from him this morning. It is strange that he cannot see we also plead
justice and right for what we do--that if we satisfied his conscience we should wound our own."

He rose from the grass as he spoke, and took a seat on a stone a little way from her. And as
she looked at him Marcia had a strange, sudden feeling that here was quite another man from
the wooer who had just been lying on the grass at her feet. This was the man of whom she had
said to Waggin--"he seems the softest, kindest!--and underneath--iron!" A shade of some habitual
sternness had crept over the features. A noble sternness, however; and it had begun to stir
in her, intermittently, the thrill of an answering humility.

"It is difficult for me--perhaps impossible--to tell you all the story," he said, after a pause,
"but I will try and tell it shortly--in its broad outlines."

"I have heard some of it."

"So I supposed. But let me tell it in order--so far as I can. It concerns a man whom a few
weeks ago we all regarded--my father and mother--myself--as one of our best friends. You know
how keen my father is about experimenting with the land? Well, when we set up our experimental
farm here ten years ago we made this man--John Betts--the head of it. He has been my father's
right hand--and he has done splendidly--made the farm, indeed, and himself, famous. And he
seemed to be one with us in other respects." He paused a moment, looked keenly into her face,
and then said, gravely and simply: "We looked upon him as a deeply religious man. My mother
could not say enough of his influence on the estate. He took a large men's class on Sundays.
He was a regular communicant; he helped our clergyman splendidly. And especially"--here again
the speaker hesitated a moment. But he resumed with a gentle seriousness--"he helped us in
all our attempts to make the people here live straight--like Christians--not like animals.
My mother has very strict rules--she won't allow any one in our cottages who has lost their
character. I know it sounds harsh. It isn't so--it's merciful. The villages were in a terrible
state when we came--as to morals. I can't of course explain to you--but our priest appealed
to us--we had to make changes--and my father and mother bravely faced unpopularity--"

He looked at her steadily, while his face changed, and the sudden red of some quick emotion
invaded it.

"You know we are unpopular!"

"Yes," said Marcia, slowly, his perfect sincerity forbidding anything else in her.

"Especially"--there was a touch of scorn in the full voice--"owing to the attacks on my father
and mother of that Liberal agitator--that man Atherstone--who lives in that cottage on the
hill--your mother knows all about him. He has spread innumerable stories about us ever since
we came to live here. He is a free-thinker and a republican--we are church people and Tories.
He thinks that every man--or woman--is a law unto themselves. We think--but you know what we
think!"

He smiled at her.

"Well--to return to Betts. This is May. Last August he had an attack of influenza, and went
off to North Wales, to the sea, to recruit. He was away much longer than any one expected,
and after about six weeks he wrote to my father to say that he should return to Hoddon Grey--with
a wife. He had found a lady at Colwyn Bay, whom he had known as a girl. She was a widow, had
just lost her father, with whom she lived, and was very miserable and forlorn. I need not say
we all wrote the most friendly letters. She came, a frail, delicate creature, with one child.
My mother did all she could for her, but was much baffled by her reserve and shrinking. Then--bit
by bit--through some extraordinary chances and coincidences--I needn't go through it all--the
true story came out."

He looked away for a moment over the reaches of the park, evidently considering with himself
what he could tell, and how far.

"I can only tell you the bare facts," he said, at last. "Mrs. Betts was divorced by her first
husband. She ran away with a man who was in his employment, and lived with him for two years.
He never married her, and after two years he deserted her. She has had a wretched life since--with
her child. Then Betts came along, whom she had known long ago. She threw herself on his pity.
She is very attractive--he lost his head--and married her. Well now, what were we to do?"

"They are married?" said Marcia.

"Certainly--by the law. But it is a law which matters nothing to us!"

The voice had taken to itself a full challenging note.

Marcia looked up.

"Because--you think--divorce is wrong?"

"Because--'What God has joined together let no man put asunder!'"

"But there are exceptions in the New Testament?"

The peach bloom on Marcia's cheek deepened as she bent over the daisy chain she was idly making.

"Doubtful ones! The dissolution of marriage may itself be an open question. But, for all churchmen,
the remarriage of divorced persons--and trebly, when it is asked for by the person whose sin
caused the divorce!--is an absolutely closed one!"

Marcia's mind was in a ferment. But her girlish senses were keenly alive to the presence beside
her--the clean-cut classical face, the spiritual beauty of the eyes. Yet something in her shivered.

"Suppose she was very unhappy with her first husband?"

"Law cannot be based on hard cases. It is made to help the great multitude of suffering, sinning
men and women through their lives." He paused a little, and then said, "Our Lord 'knew what
was in man.'"

The low tone in which the last words were spoken affected Marcia deeply, not so much as an
appeal to religion, for her own temperament was not religious, as because they revealed the
inner mystical life of the man beside her. She was suddenly filled again with a strange pride
that he should have singled her out--to love her.

But the rise of feeling was quickly followed by recoil.

She looked up eagerly.

"If I had been very miserable--had made a hideous mistake--and knew it--and somebody came along
and offered to make me happy--give me a home--and care for me--I couldn't and I shouldn't resist!"

"You would," he said, simply, "if God gave you strength."

Nothing so intimate had yet been said between them. There was silence. That old, old connection
between the passion of religion--which is in truth a great romanticism--and the passion of
sex, made itself felt; but in its most poetic form. Marcia was thrillingly conscious of the
debate in herself--of the voice which said, "Teach me, govern me, love me--be my adored master
and friend!" and the voice which replied, "I should be his slave--I will not!"

At last she said:

"You have dismissed Mr. Betts?"

He sighed.

"He is going in a month. My father offered all we could. If--Mrs. Betts"--the words came out
with effort--"would have separated from him we should have amply provided for her and her child.
The Cloan Sisters would have watched over her. She could have lived near them, and Betts could
have seen her from time to time--"

"They refused?"

"Absolutely. Betts wrote my father the fiercest letters. They were married, he said, married
legally and honestly--and that was an end of it. As to Mrs. Betts's former history, no one
had the smallest right to pry into it. He defied my father to dismiss him. My father--on his
principles--had no choice but to do so. So then--your brother came on the scene!"

"Of course--he was furious?"

"What right has he to be furious?" said Newbury, quietly. "His principles may be what he pleases.
But he must allow us ours. This is a free country."

A certain haughtiness behind the gentle manner was very perceptible. Marcia kindled for her
brother.

"I suppose Corry would say, if the Church ruled us--as you wish--England wouldn't be free!"

"That's his view. We have ours. No doubt he has the present majority with him. But why attack
us personally--call us names--because of what we believe?"

He spoke with vivacity, with wounded feeling. Marcia melted.

"But every one knows," she murmured, "that Corry is mad--quite mad."

And suddenly, impulsively, she put out her hand.

"Don't blame us!"

He took the hand in both his own, bent over and kissed it.

"Don't let him set you against us!"

She smiled and shook her head. Then by way of extricating herself and him from the moment of
emotion--by way of preventing its going any further--she sprang to her feet.

"Mother will be waiting lunch for us."

They walked back to the house together, discussing as they went Coryston's whole campaign.
Newbury's sympathy with her mother was as balm to Marcia; insensibly she rewarded him, both
by an open and charming mood, and also by a docility, a readiness to listen to the Newbury
view of life which she had never yet shown. The May day, meanwhile, murmured and gleamed around
them. The spring wind like a riotous life leaped and rustled in the new leaf of the oaks and
beeches; the sky seemed to be leaning mistily to earth; and there were strange, wild lights
on the water and the grass, as though, invisible, the train of Dionysius or Apollo swept through
the land. Meanwhile the relation between the young man and the girl ripened apace. Marcia's
resistance faltered within her; and to Newbury the walk was enchantment.

Finally they agreed to leave the task of remonstrating with Coryston to Sir Wilfrid Bury, who
was expected the following day, and was an old friend of both families.

"Corry likes him," said Marcia. "He says, 'Give me either a firebrand or a cynic!' He has no
use for other sorts of people. And perhaps Sir Wilfrid will help us, too--with Arthur." Her
look darkened.

"Arthur?" said Newbury, startled. "What's wrong with Arthur?"

Marcia hurriedly told him. He looked amazed and shocked.

"Oh, that can't be allowed. We must protect your mother--and persuade Arthur. Let me do what
I can. He and I are old pals."

Marcia was only too glad to be helped. It had begun to seem to her, in spite of the rush of
her London gaieties, and the brilliance of her London successes, that she had been very lonely
at home for a long time, and here, in this strong man, were warmth and shelter.

       *       *       *       *       *

Luncheon passed gaily, and Lady Coryston perceived, or thought she perceived, that Marcia's
affairs were marching briskly toward their destined end. Newbury took his leave immediately
afterward, saying to Lady Coryston, "So we expect you--next Sunday?" The slight emphasis he
laid on the words, the pressure on her hand seemed to reveal to her the hope in the young man's
mind. Well!--the sooner, the better.

Afterward Lady Coryston paid some calls in the village, and, coming home through a stately
series of walled gardens ablaze with spring flowers, she gave some directions for a new herbaceous
border. Then she returned to the house to await her son. Marcia meanwhile had gone to the station
to meet Sir Wilfrid Bury.

Coryston duly arrived, a more disreputable figure than usual--bedraggled with rain, his shabby
trousers tucked into his boots, and his cap festooned with fishing-flies; for the afternoon
had turned showery, and Coryston had been pursuing the only sport which appealed to him in
the trout-stream of the park. Before he did so he had formally asked leave of the agent, and
had been formally granted it.

He and Lady Coryston were closeted together for nearly an hour. Had any one been sitting in
the adjoining room they would have heard, save on two occasions when the raised voices clashed
together, but little variation in the tones of the combatants. When the conference broke up
and Coryston departed Lady Coryston was left alone for a little while. She sat motionless in
her chair beside her writing-table. Animation and color faded slowly from her features; and
before her trance of thought was broken by the arrival of a servant announcing that Sir Wilfrid
Bury had arrived, one who knew her well would have been startled by certain subtle changes
in her aspect.

Coryston, meanwhile, made his way to the great library in the north wing, looking for Lester.
He found the young librarian at his desk, with a fifteenth-century MS. before him, which he
was describing and cataloguing. The beautiful pages sparkling with color and gold were held
open by glass weights, and the young man's face, as he bent over his task, showed the happy
abstraction of the scholar. All around him rose the latticed walls of the library, holding
on one side a collection of MSS., on the other of early printed books, well known to learned
Europe. Wandering gleams from the showery sky outside lit up the faded richness of the room,
the pale brown and yellows of the books, the sharp black and white of the old engravings hanging
among them. The windows were wide open, and occasionally a westerly gust would blow in upon
the floor petals from a fruit tree in blossom just outside.

Coryston came in, looking rather flushed and excited, and took a seat on the edge of the table
where Lester was working, his hands in his pockets.

"What a blessed place!" he said, glancing round him. Lester looked up and smiled absently.

"Not bad?"

Silence a moment. Then Coryston said, with sudden vehemence:

"Don't you go into politics, Lester!"

"No fear, old man. But what's up, now? You seem to have been ragging a good deal."

"I've been 'following the gleam,'" said Coryston, with a sarcastic mouth. "Or to put it in
another way--there's a hot coal in me that makes me do certain things. I dignify it by calling
it a sense of justice. What is it? I don't know. I say, Lester, are you a Suffragist?"

"Haven't made up my mind."

"I am--theoretically. But upon my word--politics plays the deuce with women. And sometimes
I think that women will play the deuce with politics."

"You mean they're so unmeasured?" said Lester, cautiously.

Coryston shook his head vaguely, staring at the floor, but presently broke out:

"I say, Lester, if we can't find generosity, tenderness, an open mind--among women--where the
devil are we going to find them?" He stood up. "And politics kills all that kind of thing."

"'Physician, heal thyself,'" laughed Lester.

"Ah, but it's our business!'"--Coryston smote the table beside him--"our dusty, d--d business.
We've got somehow to push and harry and drive this beastly world into some sort of decency.
But the women!--oughtn't they to be in the shrine--tending the mystic fire? What if the fire
goes out--if the heart of the nation dies?"

Lester's blue-gray eyes looked up quietly. There was sympathy in them, but he said nothing.

Coryston tramped half-way to the library door, then turned back.

"My mother's quite a good woman," he said, abruptly. "There are no great scandals on this estate--it's
better managed than most. But because of this poison of politics, no one can call their souls
their own. If she'd let them live their own lives they'd adore her."

"The trade-unions are just the same."

"I believe you!" said Coryston. "Freedom's a lost art in England--from Parliament downward.
Well, well--Good-by!"

"Coryston!"

"Yes?" Lord Coryston paused with his hand on the door.

"Don't take the chair for Glenwilliam?"

"By George, I will!" Coryston's eyes flamed. And going out he noisily shut the door.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lester was left to his work. But his mood had been diverted, and he presently found that he
was wasting time. He walked to the window, and stood there gazing at the bright flower-beds
in the formal garden, the fountain plashing in its center, the low hills and woods that closed
the horizon, the villages with their church-towers, piercing the shelter of the woods. May
had drawn over the whole her first veils of green. The English perfection, the English mellowness,
was everywhere; the spring breathings in the air came scented with the young leaf of trees
that had been planted before Blenheim was fought.

Suddenly across the farther end of the garden passed a girlish figure in white. Lester's pulses
ran. It was Marcia. He saw her but seldom, and that generally at a distance. But sometimes
she would come, in her pretty, friendly way, to chat to him about his work, and turn over his
manuscripts.

"She has the same feeling about me that nice women have about their dogs and cats. They are
conscious of them, sorry for them; they don't like them to feel themselves neglected. So she
comes to see me every now and then--lest I should think myself forgotten. Her conscience pricks
her for people less prosperous than herself. I see it quite plainly. But she would be angry
if I were to tell her so!"

CHAPTER VII

It was a breezy June afternoon, with the young summer at its freshest and lustiest.

Lord and Lady William Newbury were strolling in the garden at Hoddon Grey. The long low line
of the house rose behind them--an attractive house and an old one, but with no architectural
features to speak of, except a high-pitched mossy roof, a picturesque series of dormer-windows,
and a high gable and small lantern cupola at the farther end which marked the private chapel.
The house was evidently roomy, but built for comfort, not display; the garden with its spreading
slopes and knolls was simple and old-fashioned, in keeping thereby with the general aspect
of the two people who were walking up and down the front lawn together.

Lord William Newbury was a man of sixty-five, tall and slenderly built. His pale hazel eyes,
dreamily kind, were the prominent feature of his face; he had very thin flat cheeks, and his
white hair--he was walking bareheaded--was blown back from a brow which, like the delicate
mouth, was still young, almost boyish. Sweetness and a rather weak refinement--a stranger would
probably have summed up his first impressions of Lord William, drawn from his bodily presence,
in some such words. But the stranger who did so would have been singularly wide of the mark.
His wife beside him looked even frailer and slighter than he. A small and mouse-like woman,
dressed in gray clothes of the simplest and plainest make, and wearing a shady garden hat;
her keen black eyes in her shriveled face gave that clear promise of strong character in which
her husband's aspect, at first sight, was lacking. But Lady William knew her place. She was
the most submissive and the most docile of wives; and on no other terms would life have been
either possible or happy in her husband's company.

They were discussing, with some eagerness, the approaching arrival of their week-end guests--Lady
Coryston and Marcia, the new dean of a neighboring cathedral, an ex-Cabinet Minister and an
Oxford professor. But the talk, however it circled, had a way of returning to Marcia. It was
evident that she held the field.

"It is so strange that I have scarcely seen her!" Lady William was saying in a tone which was
not without its note of complaint. "I hope dear Edward has not been too hasty in his choice.
As for you, William, I don't believe you would know her again, if you were to see her without
her mother."

"Oh yes, I should. Her mother introduced her to me at the Archbishop's party, and I talked
to her a little. A very handsome young woman. I remember thinking her talk rather too theatrical."

"About theaters, you mean," sighed Lady William. "Well, that's the way with all the young people.
The fuss people make about actors and actresses is perfectly ridiculous."

"I remember she talked to me enthusiastically about Madame Froment," said Lord William, in
a tone of reminiscence. "I asked her whether she knew that Madame Froment had a scandalous
story, and was not fit acquaintance for a young girl. And she opened her eyes at me, as though
I had propounded something absurd. 'One doesn't inquire about that!' she said--quite indignantly,
I assure you! 'but only whether she can act.' It was curious--and rather disquieting--to see
so much decision-- self-assertion--in so young a woman."

"Oh, well, Edward will change all that." Lady William's voice was gently confident. "He assures
me that she has excellent principles--a fine character really, though quite undeveloped. He
thinks she will be readily guided by one she loves."

"I hope so, for Edward's sake--for he is very much in love. I trust he is not letting inclination
run away with him. So much--to all of us--depends on his marriage!"

Lord William, frowning a little, paused a moment in his walk and turned his eyes to the house.
Hoddon Grey had only become his personal property some three years before this date; but ever
since his boyhood it had been associated for him with hallowed images and recollections. It
had been the dower-house of his widowed mother, and after her death his brother, a widower
with one crippled son, had owned it for nearly a quarter of a century. Both father and son
had belonged to the straitest sect of Anglo-Catholicism; their tender devotion to each other
had touched with beauty the austerity and seclusion of their lives. Yet at times Hoddon Grey
had sheltered large gatherings--gatherings of the high Puseyite party in the English Church,
both lay and clerical. Pusey himself had preached in the chapel; Liddon with the Italianate
profile--orator and ascetic--might have been seen strolling under the trees where Lord and
Lady William were strolling now; Manning, hatchet-faced, jealous and self-conscious, had made
fugitive appearances there; even the great Newman himself, in his extreme old age, had once
rested there on a journey, and given his Cardinal's blessing to the sons of one of his former
comrades in the Oxford movement.

Every stone in the house, every alley in the garden, was sacred in Lord William's eyes. To
most men the house they love represents either the dignity and pride of family, or else successful
money-making, and the pleasure of indulged tastes. But to Lord William Newbury the house of
Hoddon Grey stood as the symbol of a spiritual campaign in which his forebears, himself, and
his son were all equally enrolled--the endless, unrelenting campaign of the Church against
the world, the Christian against the unbeliever.

... His wife broke in upon his reverie.

"Are you going to say anything about Lord Coryston's letter, William?"

Lord William started.

"Say anything to his mother? Certainly not, Albinia!" He straightened his shoulders. "It is
my intention to take no notice of it whatever."

"You have not even acknowledged it?" she asked, timidly.

"A line--in the third person."

"Edward thinks Lady Coryston most unwise--"

"So she is--most unwise!" cried Lord William, warmly. "Coryston has every right to complain
of her."

"You think she has done wrong?"

"Certainly. A woman has no right to do such things--whatever her son may be. For a woman to
take upon herself the sole direction and disposal of such properties as the Coryston properties
is to step outside the bounds of her sex; it is to claim something which a woman ought not
to claim--something altogether monstrous and unnatural!"

Lord William's thin features had flushed under a sudden rush of feeling. His wife could not
help the sudden thought, "But if we had had an infidel or agnostic son?"

Aloud she said, "You don't think his being such a Radical, so dreadfully extreme and revolutionary,
justifies her?"

"Not at all! That was God's will--the cross she had to bear. She interferes with the course
of Providence--presumptuously interferes with it--doing evil that what she conceives to be
good may come. A woman must persuade men by gentleness--not govern them by force. If she attempts
that she is usurping what does not--what never can--belong to her."

The churchman had momentarily disappeared in the indignant stickler for male prerogative and
the time-honored laws of English inheritance. Lady William acquiesced in silence. She, too,
strongly disapproved of Lady Coryston's action toward her eldest son, abominable as Coryston's
opinions were. Women, like minorities, must suffer; and she was glad to have her husband's
word for it that it is not their business to correct or coerce their eldest sons, on the ground
of political opinions, however grievous those opinions may be.

"I trust that Lady Coryston will not open on this subject to me," said Lord William, after
a pause. "I am never good at concealing my opinions for politeness' sake. And of course I hold
that Coryston is just as much in the wrong as she. And mad to boot! No sane man could have
written the letter I received last week?"

"Do you think he will do what he threatens?"

"What--get up a subscription for Mr. and Mrs. Betts, and settle them somewhere here? I dare
say! We can't help it. We can only follow our consciences."

Lord William held himself erect. At that moment no one could have thought of "sweetness" in
connection with the old man's delicately white features. Every word fell from him with a quiet
and steely deliberation.

His wife walked beside him a little longer. Then she left him and went into the house to see
that all the last preparations for the guests were made; gathering on her way a bunch of early
roses from a bed near the house. She walked slowly through the guestrooms on the garden front,
looking at everything with a critical eye. The furniture of the rooms was shabby and plain.
It had been scarcely changed at all since 1832, when Lord William's widowed mother had come
to live at Hoddon Grey. But everything smelt of lavender and much cleaning. The windows were
open to the June air, and the house seemed pervaded by the cooing of doves from the lime walk
outside; a sound which did but emphasize the quiet of the house and garden. At the end of the
garden front Lady William entered a room which had a newer and fresher appearance than the
rest. The walls were white; a little rosebud chintz curtained the windows and the bed. White
rugs made the hearth and the dressing-table gay, and there was a muslin bedspread lined with
pink and tied with knots of pink ribbon.

Lady William stood and looked at it with an intense and secret pleasure. She had been allowed
to "do it up" the preceding summer, out of her own money, on which, in all her life, she had
never signed a check; and she had given orders that Miss Coryston was to be put into it. Going
to the dressing-table, she took from the vase there the formal three sprigs of azalea which
the housemaid had arranged, and replaced them by the roses. Her small, wrinkled hands lingered
upon them. She was putting them there for the girl Edward loved--who was probably to be his
wife. A great tenderness filled her heart.

When she left the room, she rapidly descended a staircase just beyond it, and found herself
in the vestibule of the chapel. Pushing the chapel doors open, she made her way in. The rich
glooms and scents of the beautiful still place closed upon her. Kneeling before the altar,
still laden with Whitsun flowers, and under the large crucifix that hung above it, she prayed
for her son, that he might worthily uphold the heritage of his father, that he might be happy
in his wife, and blessed with children....

       *       *       *       *       *

An hour later the drawing-room and the lawns of Hoddon Grey were alive with tea and talk. Lady
Coryston, superbly tall, in trailing black, was strolling with Lord William. Sir Wilfrid, the
ex-Minister Sir Louis Ford, the Dean, and the Chaplain of the house were chatting and smoking
round the deserted tea-table, while Lady William and the Oxford Professor poked among the flower-beds,
exchanging confidences on phloxes and delphiniums.

In the distance, under the lime avenue, now in its first pale leaf, two young figures paced
to and fro. They were Newbury and Marcia.

Sir Wilfrid had just thrown himself back in his chair, looking round him with a sigh of satisfaction.

"Hoddon Grey makes me feel good! Not a common effect of country-houses!"

"Enjoy them while you may!" laughed Sir Louis Ford. "Glenwilliam is after them."

"Glenwilliam!" exclaimed the Dean. "I saw him at the station, with his handsome but rather
strange-looking daughter. What's he doing here?"

"Hatching mischief with a political friend of his--a 'fidus Achates'--who lives near here,"
said the Chaplain, Mr. Perry, in a deep and rather melancholy tone.

"From the bills I saw posted up in Martover as we came through"--Sir Louis Ford lowered his
voice--"I gathered the amazing fact that Coryston--Coryston!--is going to take the chair at
a meeting where Glenwilliam speaks some way on in next month."

Sir Wilfrid shrugged his shoulders, with a warning glance at the stately form of Coryston's
mother in the distance.

"Too bad to discuss!" he said, shortly.

A slight smile played round the Dean's flexible mouth. He was a new-comer, and much more of
an Erastian than Lord William approved. He had been invited, not for pleasure, but for tactics;
that the Newburys might find out what line he was going to take in the politics of the diocese.

"We were never told," said the Dean, "that a woman's foes were to be those of her own household!"

The Chaplain frowned.

"Lord Coryston is making enemies in all directions," he said, hastily. "I understand that a
letter Lord William received from him last week was perfectly outrageous."

"What about?" asked Sir Louis.

"A divorce case--a very painful one--on which we have found it necessary to take a strong line."

The speaker, who was largely made and gaunt, with grizzled hair and spectacles, spoke with
a surprising energy. The Dean looked puzzled.

"What had Lord Coryston to do with it?"

"What indeed?--except that he is out for picking up any grievances he can."

"Who are the parties?"

The Chaplain told the story.

"They didn't ask anybody to marry them in church, did they?" asked the Dean.

"Not that I know of."

The Dean said nothing, but as he lay back in his chair, his hands behind his head, his expression
was rather hostile than acquiescent.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile, under the lime walk the golden evening insensibly heightened the pleasure of Newbury
and Marcia in each other's society. For the sunny fusion of earth and air glorified not only
field and wood, but the human beings walking in them. Nature seemed to be adapting herself
to them--shedding a mystic blessing on their path. Both indeed were conscious of a secret excitement.
They felt the approach of some great moment, as though a pageant or presence were about to
enter. For the first time, Marcia's will was in abeyance. She was scarcely ecstatically happy;
on the far horizon of life she seemed to be conscious of storm-clouds, of things threatening
and unexplored. And yet she was in love; she was thrilled both physically and spiritually by
the man beside her; with a certain helplessness, she confessed in him a being stronger and
nobler than herself; the humility, the self-surrender of passion was rising in her, like the
sap in the spring tree, and she trembled under it.

Newbury too had grown a little pale and silent. But when his eyes met hers there was that in
them under which her own wavered.

"Come and see the flowers in the wood," he said, softly, and leading the way, he took her out
of range of those observers in the garden; deep into a noble beech wood that rose out of the
garden, climbing through a sea of wild hyacinths to a hilltop.

A mossy path offered itself, winding through the blue. And round them closed the great beech
trees, in a marvel of young green, sparkling and quivering under the shafts of light that struck
through the wood. The air was balm. And the low music of the wood-pigeons seemed to be there
for them only; a chorus of earth's creatures, wooing them to earth's festival.

Unconsciously, in the deep heart of the wood, their footsteps slackened. She heard her name
breathed.

"Marcia!"

She turned, submissive, and saw him looking down upon her with adoring tenderness, his lips
gravely smiling.

"Yes!"

She raised her eyes to his, all her ripe beauty one flush. He put his arms round her, whispering:

"Marcia! will you come to me--will you be my wife?"

She leaned against him in a trance of happiness, hiding her face, yet not so that his lips
could not find hers. So this was love?--the supreme of life?

They stood so in silence a little. Then, still holding her, he drew her within the low feathering
branches of a giant tree, where was a fallen log. He placed her on it, and himself beside her.

"How wonderful that you should love me, that you should let me love you!" he said, with passionate
emotion. "Oh, Marcia, am I worthy--shall I make you happy?"

"That is for me to ask!" Her mouth was trembling now, and the tears were in her eyes. "I'm
not nearly as good as you, Edward. I shall often make you angry with me."

"Angry!" He laughed in scorn. "Could any one, ever, be angry with you, Marcia! Darling, I want
you to help me so! We'll help each other--to live as we ought to live. Isn't God good? Isn't
life wonderful?"

She pressed his hand for answer. But the intensity of his joy, as she read it in his eyes,
had in it--for her--and for the moment--just a shade of painfulness. It seemed to claim something
from her that she could not quite give--or that she might not be able to give. Some secret
force in her cried out in protest. But the slight shrinking passed almost immediately. She
threw off her hat, and lifted her beautiful brow to him in a smiling silence. He drew her to
him again, and as she felt the pressure of his arm about her, heart and soul yielded utterly.
She was just the young girl, loving and beloved.

"Do your father and mother really approve?" she asked at last as she disengaged herself, and
her hands went up to her hot cheeks, and then to her hair, to smooth it back into something
like order.

"Let us go and see." He raised her joyously to her feet.

She looked at him a little wistfully.

"I'm rather afraid of them, Edward. You must tell them not to expect too much. And I shall
always--want to be myself."

"Darling! what else could they, could any one want for you--or for me!" The tone showed him
a little startled, perhaps stung, by her words. And he added, with a sudden flush:

"Of course I know what Coryston will say to you. He seems to think us all hypocrites and tyrants.
Well--you will judge. I won't defend my father and mother. You will soon know them. You will
see what their lives are."

He spoke with feeling. She put her hand in his, responding.

"You'll write to Corry--won't you? He's a dreadful thorn in all our sides; and yet--" Her eyes
filled with tears.

"You love him?" he said, gently. "That's enough for me."

"Even if he's rude and violent?" she pleaded.

"Do you think I can't keep my temper--when it's your brother? Try me."

He clasped her hand warm and close in his strong fingers. And as she moved through the young
green of the woodland he saw her as a spirit of delight, the dark masses of her hair, her white
dress and all her slender grace flecked by the evening sun. These were moments, he knew, that
could never come again; that are unique in a man's history. He tried to hold and taste them
as they passed; tormented, like all lovers, by what seems, in such crises, to be the bitter
inadequacy and shallowness of human feeling.

They took a more round-about path home than that which had brought them into the wood, and
at one point it led them through a clearing from which there was a wide view of undulating
ground scattered with houses here and there. One house, a pleasant white-walled dwelling, stood
conspicuously forward amid copses a couple of fields away. Its garden surrounded by a sunk
fence could be seen, and the figure of a lady walking in it. Marcia stopped to look.

"What a charming place! Who lives there?"

Newbury's eyes followed hers. He hesitated a moment.

"That is the model farm."

"Mr. Betts's farm?"

"Yes. Can you manage that stile?"

Marcia tripped over it, scorning his help. But her thoughts were busy with the distant figure.
Mrs. Betts, no doubt; the cause of all the trouble and talk in the neighborhood, and the occasion
of Corry's outrageous letter to Lord William.

"I think I ought to tell you," she said, stopping, with a look of perplexity, "that Corry is
sure to come and talk to me--about that story. I don't think I can prevent him."

"Won't you hand him on to me? It is really not a story for your ears."

He spoke gravely.

"I'm afraid Cony would call that shirking. I--I think perhaps I had better have it out with
him--myself. I remember all you said to me!"

"I only want to save you." His expression was troubled, but not without a certain touch of
sternness that she perceived. He changed the subject immediately, and they walked on rapidly
toward the garden.

Lady William first perceived them--perceived, too, that they were hand in hand. She broke off
her chat with Sir Wilfrid Bury under the limes, and rising in sudden agitation she hurried
across the lawn to her husband.

The Dean and Sir Louis Ford had been discussing Woman Suffrage over their cigarettes, and Sir
Louis, who was a stout opponent, had just delivered himself of the frivolous remark--in answer
to some plea of the Dean's on behalf of further powers for the female sex:

"Oh, no doubt, somewhere between the Harem and the Woolsack, it will be necessary to draw the
line!"--when they too caught sight of the advancing figures.

The Dean's eyebrows went up. A smile, most humorous and human, played over his round cheeks
and button mouth.

"Have they drawn it? Looks like it!" he said, under his breath.

"Eh!--what?" Sir Louis, the most incorrigible of elderly gossips, eagerly put up his eyeglass.
"Do you suspect anything?"

Five persons were presently gathered in the library, and Marcia was sitting with her hand in
Lady William's. Everybody except Lady Coryston was in a happy agitation, and trying to conceal
it. Even Lord William, who was not without his doubts and qualms, was deeply moved, and betrayed
a certain moisture in his eyes, as he concluded his old world speech of welcome and blessing
to his son's betrothed. Only Lady Coryston preserved an unbroken composure. She was indeed
quite satisfied. She had kissed her daughter and given her consent without the smallest demur,
and she had conveyed both to Newbury and his father in a few significant words that Marcia's
portion would be worthy of their two families. But the day's event was already thrust aside
by her burning desire to get hold of Sir Louis Ford before dinner, and to extract from him
the latest and most confidential information that a member of the Opposition could bestow as
to the possible date for the next general election. Marcia's affair was thoroughly nice and
straightforward--just indeed what she had expected. But there would be plenty of time to talk
about it after the Hoddon Grey visit was over; whereas Sir Louis was a rare bird not often
to be caught.

"My dear," said Lord William in his wife's ear, "Perry must be informed of this. There must
be some mention of it in our service to-night."

She assented. Newbury, however, who was standing near, caught the remark, and looked rather
doubtfully at the speaker.

"You think so, father?"

"Certainly, my dear son, certainly."

Neither Marcia nor her mother heard. Newbury approached his betrothed, but perceived that there
was no chance of a private word with her. For by this time other guests had been summoned to
receive the great announcement, and a general flutter of laughter and congratulations was filling
the room.

The Dean, who had had his turn with Marcia, and was now turning over books, looked at her keenly
from time to time.

"A face," he thought, "of much character, promising developments. Will she fit herself to this
medieval household? What will they make of her?"

Sir Louis, after paying his respects and expressing his good wishes to the betrothed pair,
had been resolutely captured by Lady Coryston. Lord William had disappeared.

Suddenly into the talk and laughter there struck the sound of a loud and deep-toned bell. Lady
William stood up with alacrity. "Dear me!--is it really chapel-time? Lady Coryston, will you come?"

Marcia's mother, her face stiffening, rose unwillingly.

"What are we supposed to do?" asked the Dean, addressing Newbury.

"We have evensong in chapel at seven," said Newbury. "My father set up the custom many years
ago. It gathers us all together better than evening prayer after dinner."

His tone was simple and matter-of-fact. He turned radiantly to Marcia, and took her hand again.
She followed him in some bewilderment, and he led her through the broad corridor which gave
access to the chapel.

"Rather unusual, this, isn't it?" said Sir Louis Ford to Lady Coryston as they brought up the
rear. His face expressed a certain restrained amusement. If there was a convinced agnostic
in the kingdom it was he. But unlike the woman at his side he could always take a philosophical
interest in the religious customs of his neighbors.

"Most unusual!" was the emphatic reply. But there was no help for it. Lady Coryston followed,
willy-nilly.

Marcia, meanwhile, was only conscious of Newbury. As they entered the chapel together she saw
his face transfigured. A mystical "recollection," shutting him away completely from the outside
world, sweeping like a sunlit cloud even between himself and her, possessed it. She felt suddenly
forsaken--altogether remote from him.

But he led her on, and presently they were kneeling together under a great crucifix of primitive
Italian work, while through the dusk of the May evening gleamed the lamps of the chapel, and
there arose on all sides of her a murmur of voices repeating the Confession. Marcia was aware
of many servants and retainers; and she could see the soldierly form of Lord William kneeling
in the distance, with Lady William beside him. The chapel seemed to her large and splendid.
It was covered with painting and mosaic; and she felt the sharp contrast between it and the
simple bareness of the house to which it was attached.

"What does all this mean?" she seemed to be asking herself. "What does it mean for me? Can
I play my part in it?"

What had become of that early antagonism and revolt which she had expressed to "Waggin"? It
had not protected her in the least from Newbury's growing ascendancy! She was indeed astonished
at her own pliancy! In how short a time had she allowed Newbury's spell upon her to drive her
earlier vague fears of his surroundings and traditions out of her mind!

And now it returned upon her intensified--that cold, indefinite fear, creeping through love
and joy.

She turned again to look beseechingly at Newbury. But it seemed to her that she was forgotten.
His eyes were on the altar--absorbed.

And presently, aghast, she heard her own name! In the midst of the General Thanksgiving, at
the point where mention may be made of individual cases, the Chaplain suddenly paused to give
thanks in a voice that possessed a natural and slightly disagreeable tremor, for the "happy
betrothal of Edward Newbury and Marcia Coryston."

An audible stir and thrill ran through the chapel, subsiding at once into a gulf of intense
silence. Marcia bowed her head with the rest; but her cheeks burned, and not only with a natural
shyness. The eyes of all these kneeling figures seemed to be upon her, and she shrank under
them. "I ought to have been asked," she thought, resentfully. "I ought to have been asked!"

When they left the chapel, Newbury, pale and smiling, bent over her appealingly.

"Darling!--you didn't mind?"

She quickly withdrew her hand from his.

"Don't you dine at half past eight? I really must go and dress."

And she hurried away, without waiting for him to guide her through the unknown house. Breathlessly
she ran up-stairs and found her room. The sight of her maid moving about, of the lights on
the dressing-table, of the roses, and her dress laid out upon the bed, brought her sudden and
unspeakable relief. The color came back to her cheeks, she began to chatter to her maid about
everything and nothing--laughing at any trifle, and yet feeling every now and then inclined
to cry. Her maid dressed her in pale pink and told her plainly when the last hook was fastened
and the last string tied that she had never looked better.

"But won't you put on these roses, miss?"

She pointed to the bunch that Lady William had gathered.

Marcia pinned them into her belt, and stood a moment looking at her reflection in the glass.
Not in mere girlish vanity! Something much stronger and profounder entered in. She seemed to
be measuring her resources against some hostile force--to be saying to herself:

"Which of us is to yield? Perhaps not I!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Yet as soon as Marcia entered the drawing-room, rather late, to find all the party assembled,
the tension of her mood dropped, thawed by the sheer kindness and good will of the people round
her. Lord William was resplendent in a button-hole and new dress-clothes; Lady William had
put on her best gown and some family jewels that never saw the light except on great occasions;
and when Marcia entered, the friendly affectionate looks that greeted her on all sides set
her blushing once more, and shamed away the hobgoblins that had been haunting her. She was
taken in to dinner by Lord William and treated as a queen. The table in the long, low dining-room
shone with flowers and some fine old silver which the white-haired butler had hurriedly produced
from the family store. Beside Marcia's plate lay a bunch of lilies-of-the-valley which the
no less ancient head gardener had gathered and tied with a true-lover's knot, in the interval
between chapel and dinner. And opposite to her sat the man she was to marry, composed and gay,
careful to spare his betrothed embarrassment, ready to talk politics with Sir Louis Ford and
cathedral music with the Dean; yet, through it all, so radiantly and transparently happy that
his father and mother, at any rate, could not look at him without melting memories of their
own youth, which sometimes, and for a moment, made talk difficult.

After dinner Sir Wilfrid Bury found Lady Coryston in a secluded corner, deep in the evening
papers which had just arrived. He sat down beside her.

"Well, how are you feeling?"

"If we could but revive the duel!" said Lady Coryston, looking up with eyes aflame.

"Gracious! For what and whom? Do you want to shoot your future son-in-law for taking her from you?"

"Who--Marcia? Nonsense!" said Lady Coryston, impatiently. "I was talking of this last speech
of Glenwilliam's, attacking us landlords. If the duel still existed he would either never have
made it or he would have been shot within twenty-four hours!"

"Hang Glenwilliam!" Sir Wilfrid's tone was brusque. "I want to talk about Marcia!"

Lady Coryston turned slowly round upon him.

"What's wrong with Marcia? I see nothing to talk about."

"Wrong! You unnatural woman! I want to know what you feel about it. Do you really like the
young man? Do you think he's good enough for her?"

"Certainly I like him. A very well disposed fellow. I hope he'll manage her properly. But if
you want to know what I think of his family"--she dropped her voice--"I can only say that although
their virtues no doubt are legion, the atmosphere of this house is to me positively stifling.
You feel it as you cross the threshold. It is an atmosphere of sheer tyranny! What on earth
do they mean by bundling us into chapel like that?"

"Tyranny! You call it tyranny!" Sir Wilfrid's eyes danced.

"Certainly," said Lady Coryston, stiffly. "What else should I call it? One's soul is not one's
own."

Sir Wilfrid settled down on the sofa beside her, and devoted himself to drawing her out. Satan
rebuking sin was a spectacle of which he never tired, and the situation was the more amusing
because he happened to have spent the morning in remonstrating with her--to no purpose whatever--on
the manner in which she was treating her eldest son.

CHAPTER VIII

While these events were happening at Hoddon Grey, Reginald Lester was passing a solitary Sunday
at Coryston, until the afternoon, at least, when visitors appeared. To be left to himself,
the solitary inhabitant, save for the servants, of the great classical pile; to be able to
wander about it as he liked, free to speculate on its pictures and engravings; to rummage the
immense collection of china in the basement rooms which no one but himself ever looked at;
to examine some new corner of the muniment-room, and to ponder the strange and gruesome collection
of death-masks, made by Coryston's grandfather, and now ranged in one of the annexes of the
library--gave him endless entertainment. He was a born student, in whom the antiquarian instincts
would perhaps ultimately overpower the poetic and literary tastes which were now so strong
in him; and on Sunday, when he put aside his catalogue, the miscellaneous possessions of an
historic house represented for him a happy hunting-ground through which he was never tired
of raiding.

But on Sunday, also, he generally gave some time to writing the journal of the preceding week.
He had begun it in the hopes of attaining thereby a more flexible and literary style than the
methods of his daily research allowed, and with various Stevensonian ambitions dinning in his
head. Why should he not make himself a writer, like other people?

But the criticisms of books, the records of political or literary conversation, with which
the parchment-bound volume had been filled for some time, had been gradually giving place to
something quite different, and it had become more necessary than ever that the book should
be carefully locked when done with, and put away in his most private drawer. For instance:

"What is happening, or what has probably already happened, yesterday or to-day, at Hoddon Grey?
It is very easy to guess. N. has been gaining ground steadily ever since he has been able to
see her away from the distracting influences of London. What is impressive and unusual in his
character has room to show itself; and there are no rival forces. And yet--I doubt very much
whether it would answer his purpose that she should see much of his home. She will never endure
any home of her own run on the same lines; for at bottom she is a pagan, with the splendid
pagan virtues, of honor, fairness, loyalty, pity, but incapable by temperament of those particular
emotions on which the life of Hoddon Grey is based. Humility, to her, is a word and a quality
for which she has no use; and I am sure that she has never been sorry for her 'sins,' in the
religious sense, though often, it seems to me, her dear life just swings hour by hour between
the two poles of impulse and remorse. She passionately wants something and must get it; and
then she is consumed with fear lest in the getting it she should have injured or trampled on
some one else.

"Of late she has come in here--to the library--much more frequently. I am sure she feels that
I care deeply what happens to her; and I sometimes am presumptuous enough to think that she
wishes me to understand and approve her.

"It has grown up inevitably--this affair; but N. little realizes how dangerous his position
is. Up to a certain point the ascetic element in him and his philosophy will attract her--will
draw the moth to the candle. All strong-willed characters among women are attracted by the
austere, the ascetic powers in men. The history of all religious movements is there to prove
it. But there are tremendous currents in our modern life making against such men as Newbury--their
ideals and traditions. And to one or other of those currents it always seems to me that she
is committed. She does not know it--does not dream, perhaps, whither she is being carried;
but all the same there are 'murmurs and scents' from 'the infinite sea' of free knowledge and
experiment which play upon her, and will never play upon Newbury.

"Coryston will make a great effort to upset the engagement--if it is an engagement; that I
can see. He thinks himself justified, on the ground that she will be committing herself to
an inhuman and antisocial view of life; and he will work upon her through this painful Betts
case. I wonder if he will succeed. Is he really any more tolerant than his mother? And can
toleration in the active-spirited be ever anything more than approximate? 'When I speak of
toleration I mean not tolerated Popery,' said Milton. Lady Coryston can't tolerate her son,
and Coryston can't tolerate Newbury. Yet all three must somehow live together and make a world.
Doesn't that throw some light on the ideal function of women? Not voting--not direct party-fighting--but
the creation of a spiritual atmosphere in which the nation may do its best, and may be insensibly
urged to do its best, in fresh, spontaneous ways, like a plant flowering in a happy climate--isn't
that what women might do for us?--instead of taking up with all the old-fashioned, disappointing,
political machinery, that men have found out? Meanwhile Lady Coryston of course wants all the
women of her sort to vote, but doesn't see how it is to be done without letting in the women
of all and any sort--to vote against her.

"I have about half done my cataloguing, and have been writing some letters to Germany this
morning with a view to settling on some university work there for the winter. A big book on
the rise and fall of Burgundy suggests itself to me; and already I hug the thought of it. Lady
Coryston has paid me well for this job, and I shall be able to do what I like for a year, and
give mother and Janie some of the jam and frills of life. And who knows if I sha'n't after
all be able to make my living out of what I like best? If I only could write! The world seems
to be waiting for the historian that can write.

"But meanwhile I shall always be glad of this year with the Corystons. How much longer will
this rich, leisurely, aristocratic class with all its still surviving power and privileges
exist among us? It is something that obviously is in process of transmutation and decay; though
in a country like England the process will be a very slow one. Personally I greatly prefer
this landlord stratum to the top stratum of the trading and manufacturing world. There are
buried seeds in it, often of rare and splendid kinds, which any crisis brings to life--as in
the Boer war; and the mere cult of family and inheritance implies, after all, something valuable
in a world that has lately grown so poor in all cults.

"Mother and daughter here show what is going on. Lady Coryston is just the full-blown tyrannus.
She has no doubt whatever about her right to rule, and she rules for all she's worth. At the
same time she knows that Demos has the last word, and she spends her time in the old see-saw
between threats and cajolery. The old vicar here has told me astonishing tales of her--how
she turned her own sister out-of-doors and never spoke to her afterward because she married
a man who ratted to the Liberals, and the wife went with him; how her own husband dreaded her
if he ever happened to differ from her politically, and a sort of armed neutrality between
her and Coryston was all that could be hoped for at the best of times.

"The poor people here--or most of them--are used to her, and in a way respect her. They take
her as inevitable--like the rent or the east wind; and when she sends them coal and blankets,
and builds village halls for them, they think they might be worse off. On the other hand, I
don't see that Coryston makes much way among them. They think his behavior to his mother unseemly;
and if they were he, they would use all his advantages without winking. At the same time, there
is a younger generation growing up in the village and on the farms--not so much there, however!--which
is going to give Lady Coryston trouble. Coryston puzzles and excites them. But they, too, often
look askance; they wonder what he, personally, is going to get out of his campaign.

"And then--Marcia? For in this book, this locked book, may I not call her by her name? Well,
she is certainly no prophetess among these countryfolk. She takes up no regular duties among
the poor, as the women of her family have probably always done. She is not at her ease with
them; nor they with her. When she tries to make friends with them she is like a ship teased
with veering winds, and glad to shrink back into harbor. And yet when something does really
touch her--when something makes her feel--that curious indecision in her nature hardens into
something irresistible. There was a half-witted girl in the village, ill-treated and enslaved
by a miserly old aunt. Miss Coryston happened to hear of it from her maid, who was a relation
of the girl. She went and bearded the aunt, and took the girl away bodily in her pony-cart.
The scene in the cottage garden--Marcia with her arm round the poor beaten and starved creature,
very pale, but keeping her head, and the old virago shrieking at her heels--must have been
worth seeing. And there is an old man--a decrepit old road-mender, whose sight was injured
in a shooting accident. She likes his racy talk, and she never forgets his Christmas present
or his birthday, and often drops in to tea with him and his old wife. But that's because it
amuses her. She goes to see them for precisely the same reasons that she would pay a call in
Mayfair; and it's inspiriting to see how they guess, and how they like it. You perceive that
she is shrinking all the time from the assumptions on which her mother's life is based, refusing
to make them her own, and yet she doesn't know what to put in their place. Does Coryston, either?

"But the tragic figure--the tragic possibility--in all this family galere at the present moment,
of course, is Arthur. I know, because of our old Cambridge friendship--quite against my will--a
good deal about the adventure into which he has somehow slipped; and one can only feel that
any day may bring the storm. His letter to me yesterday shows that he is persecuting the lady
with entreaties, that she is holding him off, and that what Lady Coryston may do when she knows
will greatly affect what the young lady will do. I don't believe for one moment that she will
marry a penniless A. She has endless opportunities, and, I am told, many proposals--"

The journal at this point was abruptly closed and locked away. For the writer of it, who was
sitting at an open window of the library, became aware of the entrance of a motor into the
forecourt of the house. Arthur Coryston was sitting in it. When he perceived Lester at the
window he waved to the librarian, and jumping from the car as it drew up at the front door,
he came across the court to a side door, which gave access to the library staircase.

As he entered the room Lester was disagreeably struck by his aspect. It was that of a man who
has slept ill and drunk unwisely. His dress was careless, his eyes haggard, and all the weaknesses
of the face seemed to have leaped to view, amid the general relaxation of tenue and dignity.
He came up to the chair at which Lester was writing, and flung himself frowning into a chair
beside it.

"I hear mother and Marcia are away?"

"They have gone to Hoddon Grey for the Sunday. Didn't you know?"

"Oh yes, I knew. I suppose I knew. Mother wrote something," said the young man, impatiently.
"But I have had other things to think about."

Lester glanced at him, but without speaking. Arthur rose from his seat, thrust his hands into
his pockets, and began to pace the polished floor of the library. The florid, Georgian decoration
of ceiling and walls, and the busts of placid gentlemen with curling wigs which stood at intervals
among the glass cases, wore an air of trivial or fatuous repose beside the hunted young fellow
walking up and down. Lester resolutely forbore to cross-examine him. But at last the walk came
to an abrupt stop.

"Here's the last straw, Lester! Have you heard what mother wants me to do? There's to be a
big Tory meeting here in a month--mother's arranged it all--not a word to me with your leave,
or by your leave!--and I'm to speak at it and blackguard Glenwilliam! I have her letter this
morning. I'm not allowed a look in, I tell you! I'm not consulted in the least. I'll bet mother's
had the bills printed already!"

"A reply, of course, to the Martover meeting?"

"I dare say. D--n the Martover meeting! But what taste!--two brothers slanging at each other--almost
in the same parish. I declare women have no taste!--not a ha'porth. But I won't do it--and
mother, just for once, will have to give in."

He sat down again and took the cigarette which Lester handed him--no doubt with soothing intentions.
And indeed his state of excitement and agitation appeared nothing less than pitiable to the
friend who remembered the self-complacent young orator, the budding legislator of early April.

"You are afraid of being misunderstood?"

"If I attack her father, as mother wishes me to attack him," said the young man, with emphasis,
looking up, "Enid Glenwilliam will never speak to me again. She makes that quite plain."

"She ought to be too clever!" said Lester, with vivacity. "Can't she discriminate between the
politician and the private friend?"

Arthur shook his head.

"Other people may. She doesn't. If I get up in public and call Glenwilliam a thief and a robber--and
what else can I call him, with mother looking on?--there'll be an end of my chances for good
and all. She's fanatical about her father! She's pulled me up once or twice already about him.
I tell you--it's rather fine, Lester!--upon my soul, it is!"

And with a countenance suddenly softening and eyes shining, Arthur turned his still boyish
looks upon his friend.

"I can quite believe it. They're a very interesting pair.... But--I confess I'm thinking of
Lady Coryston. What explanation can you possibly give? Are you prepared to take her into your
confidence?"

"I don't know whether I'm prepared or not. Whatever happens I'm between the devil and the deep
sea. If I tell her, she'll break with me; and if I don't tell her, it won't be long before
she guesses for herself!"

There was a pause, broken at last by Lester, whose blue eyes had shown him meanwhile deep in
reflection. He bent forward.

"Look here, Arthur!--can't you make a last effort, and get free?"

His companion threw him a queer resentful look, but Lester persisted:

"You know what I think. You won't make each other happy. You belong to two worlds which won't
and can't mix. Her friends can never be your friends nor your friends hers. You think that
doesn't matter now, because you're in love. But it does matter--and it'll tell more and more
every year."

"Don't I know it?" cried Arthur. "She despises us all. She looks upon us all--I mean, us people,
with land and money and big houses--just as so much grist to her father's mill, so many fat
cattle for him to slaughter."

"And yet you love her!"

"Of course I do! I can't make you understand, Lester! She doesn't speechify about these things--she
never speechifies to me, at least. She mocks at her own side--just as much as ours. But it's
her father she worships--and everything that he says and thinks. She adores him--she'd go to
the stake for him any day. And if you want to be a friend of hers, lay a finger on him, and
you'll see! Of course it's mad--I know that. But I'd rather marry her mad than any other woman
sane!"

"All the same you could break it off," persisted Lester.

"Of course I could. I could hang--or poison--or shoot myself, I suppose, if it comes to that.
It would be much the same thing. If I do have to give her up, I shall cut the whole business--Parliament--estates--everything!"

The quarter-decking began again; and Lester waited patiently on a slowly subsiding frenzy.
At last he put a question.

"What are your chances?"

"With her? I don't know. She encourages me one day, and snubs me the next. But one thing I
do know. If I attend that meeting, and make the sort of speech I should have made three months
ago without turning a hair--and if I don't make it, mother will know the reason why!--it's
all up with me."

"Why don't you apply to Coryston?"

"What--to give up the other meeting? He's very likely to climb down, isn't he?--with his damned
revolutionary nonsense. He warned us all that he was coming down here to make mischief--and,
by Jove, he's doing it!"

"I say, who's taking my name in vain?" said a high-pitched voice.

Lester turned to the doorway, and beheld a protruding head, with glittering greenish eyes,
alive with laughter. Coryston slowly emerged, and closed the door behind him.

"Arthur, my boy, what's up now?"

Arthur paused, looked at him angrily, but was too sore and sulky to reply. Lester mildly summarized
the situation. Coryston whistled. Then he deposited the butterfly-net and tin case he had been
carrying, accepted a cigarette, and hoisting himself onto the corner of a heavy wooden pedestal
which held the periwigged bust of an eighteenth-century Coryston, he flung an arm affectionately
round the bust's neck, and sat cross-legged, smoking and pondering.

"Bar the meeting for a bit," he said at last, addressing his brother; "we'll come back to it.
But meeting or no meeting, I don't see any way out for you, Arthur--upon my soul, I don't!"

"No one ever supposed you would!" cried Arthur.

"Here's your dilemma," pursued Coryston, good-humoredly. "If you engage yourself to her, mother
will cut off the supplies. And if mother cuts off the supplies, Miss Glenwilliam won't have you."

"You think everybody but yourself, Corry, mercenary pigs!"

"What do you think? Do you see Miss Glenwilliam pursuing love in a garret--a genteel garret--on
a thousand a year? For her father, perhaps!--but for nobody else! Her clothes alone would cost
a third of it."

No reply, except a furious glance. Coryston began to look perturbed. He descended from his
perch, and approaching the still pacing Arthur, he took his arm--an attention to which the
younger brother barely submitted.

"Look here, old boy? Am I becoming a beast? Are you sure of her? Is it serious?"

"Sure of her? Good God--if I were!"

He walked to a window near, and stood looking out, so that his face could not be seen by his
companions, his hands in his pockets.

Coryston's eyebrows went up; the eyes beneath them showed a genuine concern. Refusing a further
pull at Lester's cigarettes, he took a pipe out of his pocket, lit it, and puffed away in a
brown study. The figure at the window remained motionless. Lester felt the situation too delicate
for an outsider's interference, and made a feint of returning to his work. Presently it seemed
that Coryston made up his mind.

"Well," he said, slowly, "all right. I'll cut my meeting. I can get Atherstone to take the
chair, and make some excuse. But I really don't know that it'll help you much. There's already
an announcement of your meeting in the Martover paper yesterday--"

"No!" Arthur faced round upon his brother, his cheeks blazing.

"Perfectly true. Mother's taken time by the forelock. I have no doubt she has already written
your speech."

"What on earth can I do?" He stood in helpless despair.

"Have a row!" said Coryston, laughing. "A good row and stick to it! Tell mother you won't be
treated so--that you're a man, not a school-boy--that you prefer, with many thanks, to write
your own speeches--et cetera. Play the independence card for all you're worth. It may get you
out of the mess."

Arthur's countenance began to clear.

"I'm to make it appear a bargain--between you and me? I asked you to give up your show, and you--"

"Oh, any lies you like," said Coryston, placidly. "But as I've already warned you, it won't
help you long."

"One gains a bit of time," said the young lover, in a tone of depression.

"What's the good of it? In a year's time Glenwilliam will still be Glenwilliam--and mother
mother. Of course you know you'll break her heart--and that kind of thing. Marcia made me promise
to put that before you. So I do. It's perfectly true; though I don't know that I am the person
to press it! But then mother and I have always disagreed--whereas you have been the model son."

Angry melancholy swooped once more upon Arthur.

"What the deuce have women to do with politics! Why can't they leave the rotten things to us?
Life won't be worth living if they go on like this!"

"'Life,'" echoed Coryston, with amused contempt. "Your life? Just try offering your billet--with
all its little worries thrown in--to the next fellow you meet in the street--and see what happens!"

But the man in Arthur rebelled. He faced his brother.

"If you think that I wouldn't give up this whole show to-morrow"--he waved his hand toward
the marble forecourt outside, now glistening in the sun--"for--for Enid--you never made a greater
mistake in your life, Corry!"

There was a bitter and passionate accent in the voice which carried conviction. Coryston's
expression changed.

"Unfortunately, it wouldn't help you with--with Enid--to give it up," he said, quietly. "Miss
Glenwilliam, as I read her--I don't mean anything in the least offensive--has a very just and
accurate idea of the value of money."

A sort of impatient groan was the only reply.

But Lester raised his head from his book.

"Why don't you see what Miss Coryston can do?" he asked, looking from one to the other.

"Marcia?" cried Coryston, springing up. "By the way, what are mother and Marcia after, this
Sunday? Do you suppose that business is all settled by now?"

He flung out a finger vaguely in the direction of Hoddon Grey. And as he spoke all the softness
which had gradually penetrated his conversation with Arthur through all his banter, disappeared.
His aspect became in a moment hard and threatening.

"Don't discuss it with me, Coryston," said Lester, rather sharply. "Your sister wouldn't like
it. I only mentioned her name to suggest that she might influence your mother in Arthur's case."
He rose, and began to put up his papers as he spoke.

"I know that! All the same, why shouldn't we talk about her? Aren't you a friend?--her friend?--our
friend?--everybody's friend?" said Coryston, peremptorily. "Look here!--if Marcia's really
going to marry Newbury!"--he brought his hand down vehemently on Lester's table--"there'll
be another family row. Nothing in the world will prevent my putting the Betts' case before
Marcia! I have already warned her that I mean to have it out with her, and I have advised Mrs.
Betts to write to her. If she can make Newbury hear reason--well and good. If she can't--or
if she doesn't see the thing as she ought, herself--well!--we shall know where we are!"

"Look here, Corry," said Arthur, remonstrating, "Edward Newbury's an awfully good chap. Don't
you go making mischief!"

"Rather hard on your sister, isn't it?"--the voice was Lester's--"to plunge her into such a
business, at such a time!"

"If she's happy, let her make a thank-offering!" said the inexorable Coryston. "Life won't
spare her its facts--why should we? Arthur!--come and walk home with me!"

Arthur demurred, stipulated that he should not be expected to be civil to any of Coryston's
Socialist lodgers--and finally let himself be carried off.

Lester was left once more to the quiet of the library.

"'I have advised Mrs. Betts to write to her!'"

What a shame! Why should a girl in her first love-dream be harassed with such a problem--be
brought face to face with such "old, unhappy, far-off things"? He felt a fierce indignation
with Coryston. And as he again sat solitary by the window, he lost himself in visualizations
of what was or might be going on that summer afternoon at Hoddon Grey. He knew the old house--for
Lord William had once or twice courteously invited the Coryston librarian to examine such small
treasures as he himself possessed. He could see Marcia in its paneled rooms and on its old
lawns--Marcia and Newbury.

Gradually his head dropped on his hands. The sun crept along the library floor in patches of
orange and purple, as it struck through the lozenges of old painted glass which bordered the
windows. No sound except the cooing of doves, and the note of a distant cuckoo from the river
meadows.

He did his best to play the cynic with himself. He told himself that such painful longings
and jealous revolts as he was conscious of are among the growing-pains of life, and must be
borne, and gradually forgotten. He had his career to think of--and his mother and sister, whom
he loved. Some day he too would marry and set up house and beget children, framing his life
on the simple strenuous lines made necessary by the family misfortunes. It would have been
easier, perhaps, to despise wealth, if he and his had never possessed it, and if his lack of
it were not the first and sufficient barrier which divided him from Marcia Coryston. But his
nature was sound and sane; it looked life in the face--its gifts and its denials, and those
stern joys which the mere wrestle with experience brings to the fighting spirit. He had soon
reconquered cheerfulness; and when Arthur returned, he submitted to be talked to for hours
on that young man's tangled affairs, handling the youth with that mixture of sympathy and satire
which both soothed and teased the sentimentalists who chose to confide in him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Next morning Marcia and her mother returned from Hoddon Grey in excellent time. Lady Coryston
never lingered over week-ends. Generally the first train on Monday morning saw her depart.
In this case she was obliged to give an hour to business talk--as to settlements and so forth--with
Lord William, on Monday morning. But when that was over she stepped into her motor with all
possible speed.

"What a Sunday!" she said, languidly throwing herself back, with half-closed eyes, as they
emerged from the park. Then remembering herself: "But you, my dear, have been happy! And of
course they are excellent people--quite excellent."

Marcia sat beside her flushed and rather constrained. She had of course never expected her
mother to behave like ordinary mothers on the occasion of a daughter's betrothal. She took
her insignificance, the absence of any soft emotion, quite calmly. All the same she had her
grievance.

"If only Edward and you--and everybody would not be in such a dreadful hurry!" she said, protesting.

"Seven weeks, my dear child, is enough for any trousseau. And what have you to wait for? It
will suit me too, much best. If we put it off till the autumn I should be terribly busy--absolutely
taken up--with Arthur's election. Sir Louis Ford tells me they cannot possibly stave off going
to the country longer than November. And of course this time I shall have not only the usual
Liberal gang--I shall have Coryston to fight!"

"I know. It's appalling!" cried Marcia. "Can't we get him to go away?" Then she looked at her
mother uneasily. "I do wish, mother, you hadn't put that notice of Arthur's meeting into the
Witness without consulting him. Why, you didn't even ask him, before you settled it all! Aren't
you afraid of his cutting up rough?"

"Not in the least! Arthur always expects me to settle those things for him. As soon as Coryston
had taken that outrageous step, it was imperative that Arthur should speak in his own village.
We can't have people's minds in doubt as to what he thinks of Glenwilliam, with an election
only five months off. I have written to him, of course, fully--without a word of reply! What
he has been doing these last weeks I can't imagine!"

Marcia fell into a frowning silence. She knew, alack! a great deal more than she wished to
know of what Arthur had been doing. Oh, she hoped Coryston had been able to talk to him--to
persuade him! Edward too had promised to see him--immediately. Surely between them they would
make him hear reason, before any suspicion reached their mother?

The usual pile of letters awaited Lady Coryston and Marcia on their arrival at home. But before
opening hers, Lady Coryston turned to the butler.

"Is Mr. Arthur here?"

"Yes, my lady. He is out now, but he left word he would be in for luncheon."

Lady Coryston's face lit up. Marcia did not hear the question or the answer. She was absorbed
in a letter which she happened to have opened first. She read it hastily, with growing astonishment.
Then, still holding it, she was hurrying away to her own sitting-room when the butler intercepted
her.

"There's a young lady, miss, who wants to see you. I took her to your sitting-room. She said
she came from the dressmaker--something you had ordered--very particular."

"Something I had ordered?" said Marcia, mystified. "I don't know anything about it."

She ran up-stairs, still thinking of the letter in her hand.

"I won't see her!" she said to herself, vehemently, "without Edward's leave. He has a right
now to say what I shall do. It is different with Coryston. He may argue with me--and with Edward--if
he pleases. But Mrs. Betts herself! No--that's too much!"

Her cheeks flushed angrily. She threw open the door of her sitting-room. Some one sitting stiffly
on the edge of a chair rose as she entered. To her amazement Marcia perceived a slender woman--a
lady--a complete stranger to her, standing in her own private sitting-room, awaiting her arrival.
A woman in rather slipshod artistic dress, with hands clasped theatrically, and tears on her
cheeks.

"Who are you?" said Marcia, drawing back.

Book II

MARCIA

  "To make you me how much so e'er I try,
  You will be always you, and I be I."

CHAPTER IX

"Miss Coryston, I have done a dreadful thing," said a trembling voice. "I--I have deceived
your servants--told them lies--that I might get to see you. But I implore you, let me speak
to you!--don't send me away!"

Marcia Coryston looked in amazement at the shrinking, childish creature, standing suppliant
before her, and repeated:

"I have not an idea who you are. Please tell me your name."

"My name--is Alice Betts," said the other, after a momentary hesitation. "Oh, perhaps you don't
know anything about me. But yet--I think you must; because--because there has been so much talk!"

"Mrs. Betts?" said Marcia, slowly. Her eyes perused the other's face, which reddened deeply
under the girl's scrutiny. Marcia, in her pale pink dress and hat, simple, but fresh and perfectly
appointed, with her general aspect of young bloom and strength, seemed to take her place naturally
against--one might almost say, as an effluence from--the background of bright June foliage,
which could be seen through the open windows of the room; while Mrs. Betts, tumbled, powdered,
and through all the juvenility of her attire--arms bare to the elbow and throat half uncovered,
short skirts and shell necklace,--betraying her thirty-five years, belonged quite plainly to
the used, autumnal category of her sex.

"Haven't you heard of me?" she resumed, plaintively. "I thought--Lord Coryston--"

She paused, her eyes cast down.

"Oh yes," said Marcia, mechanically. "You have seen my brother? Please sit down."

Mrs. Betts sat down, with a long sigh, still not venturing to look up. Instead she pressed
her handkerchief to her eyes; beginning to speak in a broken, sobbing voice.

"If you can't help us, Miss Coryston, I--I don't know what we shall do--my poor husband and
I. We heard last night--that at the chapel service--oh! my husband used to read the lessons
there for years and years, and now he never goes:--but he heard from one of his men, who was
there, about your engagement to Mr. Newbury--and how Mr. Perry gave it out. I am so ashamed,
Miss Coryston, to be speaking of your private affairs!--I don't know how to excuse myself--"

She looked up humbly. She had large blue eyes in a round fair-complexioned face, and the lids
fluttered as though just keeping back the tears.

"Please go on," said Marcia, coldly, quivering with excitement and annoyance. But she had been
bred to self-control, and she betrayed nothing.

"And then--well then"--Mrs. Betts covered her face with her hands a moment, removing them with
another long and miserable sigh--"my husband and I consulted--and we thought I might come to
you and beg you, Miss Coryston, to plead for us--with Mr. Newbury and Lord William! You will
be very happy, Miss Coryston--and we--we are so miserable!"

Mrs. Betts raised her eyes again, and this time the tears escaped, ran lightly over her cheek,
and fell on her blue silk dress. Marcia, who had placed herself on a chair near, felt uncomfortably
touched.

"I am sure nobody wishes to be unkind to you," she said, with embarrassment.

Mrs. Betts bent forward eagerly.

"Then you have heard? You know that John is to be turned out of his farm unless he will give
me up?"

But a quieter manner would have served her better. The answer came stiffly:

"I cannot discuss Lord William's affairs."

"Oh dear, oh dear, what am I to do?" cried Mrs. Betts under her breath, turning her eyes from
side to side like a hunted thing, and twisting a rag of a handkerchief in her small right hand.
Then, suddenly, she broke into vehemence:

"You ought to listen to me!--it is cruel--heartless, if you don't listen! You are going to
be happy--and rich--to have everything you can possibly wish for on this earth. How can you--how
can you refuse--to help anybody as wretched as I am!"

The small, chubby face and slight figure had assumed a certain tragic force. The impression
indeed was of some one absolutely at bay, at the bitter end of their resources, and therefore
reckless as to what might be thought of them. And yet there was still the slight theatrical
touch, as though the speaker observed herself, even in violence.

Marcia, troubled, intimidated, watched her in silence a few moments and then said:

"How can I possibly help you, Mrs. Betts? You shouldn't have come to me--you shouldn't, indeed.
I don't know your story, and if I did I shouldn't understand it. Why didn't you ask to see
my mother?"

"Lady Coryston would never look at the likes of me!" cried Mrs. Betts. "No, Miss Coryston!
I know it's selfish, perhaps--but it's just because you're so young--and so--so happy--that
I came to you. You don't know my story--and I can't tell it you--" The speaker covered her
face a moment. "I'm not a good woman, Miss Coryston. I never pretended to be. But I've had
an awfully hard time--awfully hard! You see," she went on, hurriedly, as though afraid Marcia
would stop her, "you see--I was married when I was only seventeen to an old husband. My mother
made me--she was dying--and she wanted to be sure I had a home. And he turned against me after
a few months. It was a horrible, horrible business. I couldn't tell you what I suffered--I
wouldn't for the world. He shut me up, he half starved me, he struck me, and abused me. Then"--she
turned her head away and spoke in a choked, rapid voice--"there was another man--he taught
me music, and--I was only a child, Miss Coryston--just eighteen. He made me believe he loved
me--and I had never had kind things said to me before. It seemed like heaven--and one day--I
went off with him--down to a seaside place, and there we stayed. It was wicked. I suppose I
ought to have borne up against my life, but I couldn't--there! I couldn't. And so--then my
husband divorced me--and for ten years I lived with my old father. The other man--deserted
me. I soon found him out. I don't think he meant to be cruel to me. But his people got hold
of him. They wouldn't let him marry me. So there I was left, with--with my child." Mrs. Betts
threw a shrinking look at Marcia.

The girl flushed suddenly and deeply, but said nothing. Mrs. Betts resumed.

"And I just lived on somehow--with my father--who was a hard man. He hated me for what I'd
done; he was always nagging and reproving me. But I couldn't earn money and be independent--though
I tried once or twice. I'm not strong--and I'm not clever; and there was the child. So he just
had to keep me--and it was bitter--for him and for me. Well, then, last August he was dying,
and we went to Colwyn Bay for him, and took a little lodging. And one day on the sands I saw--John
Betts--after fifteen years. When I was twenty--he wanted to marry me, but we'd never met since.
He came up to me--and oh!--I was glad to see him! We walked along the shore, and I told him
everything. Well--he was sorry for me!--and father died--and I hadn't a penny. For what father
left only just paid his debts. And I had no prospects in the world, and no one to help me or
my boy. So, then, Mr. Betts offered to marry me. He knew all about my divorce--he had seen
it in the newspapers years ago. I didn't deceive him--not one little bit. But he knew what
Lord William would think. Only it didn't seem to matter, really, to any one but him and me.
I was free--and I wasn't going to bring any more disgrace on anybody."

She paused forlornly. In the strong June light, all the lost youth in the small face, its premature
withering and coarsening, the traces of rouge and powder, the naturally straight hair tormented
into ugly waves, came cruelly into sight. So, too, did the holes in the dirty white gloves,
and some rents in the draggled but elaborate dress. Marcia could not help noticing and wondering.
The wife of John Betts could not be so very poor!

Suddenly her unwelcome visitor looked up.

"Miss Coryston!--if they take John's farm away, everything that he cares for, everything that
he's built up all these years, because of me, I'll kill myself! You tell Mr. Newbury that!"

The little shabby creature had in a moment dropped her shabbiness. Her slight frame stiffened
as she sat; the passion in the blue eyes which sought Marcia's was sincere and threatening.
Marcia, startled, could only say again in a vaguely troubled voice:

"I am sure nobody wants to harm Mr. Betts, and indeed, indeed, you oughtn't to talk to me like
this, Mrs. Betts. I am very sorry for you, but I can't do anything. I would be most improper
if I tried to interfere."

"Why?" cried Mrs. Betts, indignantly. "Aren't women in this world to help each other? I know
that Lord Coryston has spoken to you and that he means to speak to you. Surely, surely Mr.
Newbury will listen to you!--and Lord William will listen to Mr. Edward. You know what they
want? Oh, it's too cruel!" She wrung her hands in despair. "They say if we'll separate, if
he promises--that I shall be no more his wife--but just a friend henceforward--if we meet a
few times in the year, like ordinary friends--then John may keep his farm. And they want me
to go and live near a Sisterhood and work for the Sisters--and send the boy to school. Just
think what that looks like to me! John and I have found each other after all these years. I
have got some one to help me, at last, to make me a better woman"--sobs rose again in the speaker's
throat--"some one to love me--and now I must part from him--or else his life will be ruined!
You know, Miss Coryston, there's no other place in England like John's place. He's been trying
experiments there for years and years with new seeds, and made soils--and all sorts of ways
of growing fruit--oh, I don't understand much about it--I'm not clever--but I know he could
never do the same things anywhere else--not unless you gave him another life. He'll do it--he'll
go--for my sake. But it'll break his heart. And why should he go? What's the reason--the justice
of it?"

Mrs. Betts rose, and with her hands on her sides and the tears on her cheeks she bent over
Marcia, gasping, in a kind of frenzy. There was no acting now.

The girl of twenty-two was deeply, painfully moved. She put out her hands gently, and drew
Mrs. Betts down again to the sofa beside her.

"I'm dreadfully sorry for you! I do wish I could help you. But you know what Lord and Lady
William think, what Mr. Newbury thinks about divorced people marrying again. You know--how
they've set a standard all their lives--for their people here. How can they go against all
they've ever preached? You must see their point of view, too. You must think of their feelings.
They hate--I'm sure they hate--making any one unhappy. But if one of the chief people on the
estate does this, and they think it wicked, how--"

"Ah!" cried Mrs. Betts, eagerly interrupting. "But now please, please, Miss Coryston, listen!
This is what I want, what I beg you to say to Mr. Newbury! I can't give John up--and he'll
never give me up. But I'll go away--I'll go to a little cottage John has--it was his mother's,
in Charnwood Forest--far away from everybody. Nobody here will ever know! And John will come
to see me, whenever he can, whenever his work will let him. He will come over in the motor--he's
always running about the country--nobody would ever notice. It might be said we'd separated--so
we should have separated--as far as spending our lives together goes. But I should sometimes--sometimes--have
my John!--for my own--my very own--and he would sometimes have me!"

Sobs came tearing through, and, bowing her face upon the sofa, Mrs. Betts shook from head to foot.

Marcia sat silent, but strangely conscious of new horizons of feeling--of a deepening life.
This was the first time she had ever come across such an experience, touched so nearly on passions
and sins which had hitherto been to her as stage phantoms moving in a far distance. The girl
of to-day, whatever class she belongs to, is no longer, indeed, reared in the conventional
innocence of the mid-Victorian moment--a moment differing wholly from that immediately before
it, no less than from those which have come after it. The manners, the plays, the talk of our
generation attack such an innocence at every turn. But in place of an indirect and hearsay
knowledge, here, in this humble, shabby instance, was, for the first time, the real stuff--the
real, miserable thing, in flesh and blood. That was new to her.

And, in a flash of memory and association, there passed through her mind the vision of the
Opera House blazing with lights--Iphigenia on the stage, wailing at her father's knees in an
agony of terror and despair, and Newbury's voice:

"This is the death she shrinks from--"

And again, as the beautiful form, erect and calm once more, swept stately to its doom:

"And this--is the death she accepts!"

Newbury's face, as he spoke, was before her, quietly smiling, its handsome features alive with
an exaltation which had both chilled and fascinated the girl looking at him. As she remembered
it the thought arose--"he would accept any martyrdom for himself, in defense of what he believes
and loves--and therefore he will inflict it inexorably on others. But that's the point! For
oneself, yes--but for others who suffer and don't believe!--suffer horribly!"

A look of resolution came into the young face. She tried to rouse Mrs. Betts.

"Please don't cry so!" she said, in distress. "I see what you mean. I'll try and put it to
Mr. Newbury. Nobody here, you think, need know anything about you? They'd suppose you'd separated?
Mr. Betts would live here, and you would live somewhere else. That's what you mean, isn't it?
That's all anybody need know?"

Mrs. Betts raised herself.

"That's it. Of course, you see, we might have pretended to accept Lord William's conditions,
and then have deceived him. But my husband wouldn't do that. He simply doesn't admit that anybody
else here has any right to interfere with our private affairs. But he won't tell lies to Lord
William and Mr. Edward. If they won't, they won't!"

She sat up, drearily controlling herself, and began to smooth back her hair and put her hat
straight. But in the middle of it she caught Marcia's hand:

"Miss Coryston! you're going to marry Mr. Newbury--because you love him. If I lose John who
will ever give me a kind word--a kind look again? I thought at last--I'd found--a little love.
Even bad people"--her voice broke--"may rejoice in that, mayn't they? Christ didn't forbid
them that."

Her piteous look hung on her companion. The tears sprang to Marcia's eyes. Yet her temperament
did not tend to easy weeping; and at the root of her mind in this very moment were feelings
of repulsion and of doubt, mingled with impressions of pity. But the hours at Hoddon Grey had
been hours of deep and transforming emotion; they had left her a more sensitive and responsive
human being.

"I'll do what I can," she said, with slow emphasis. "I promise you that I'll speak to Mr. Newbury."

Mrs. Betts gave her effusive thanks which somehow jarred on Marcia; she was glad when they
were over and Mrs. Betts rose to go. That her tearful and disheveled aspect might escape the
servants Marcia took her down a side staircase of the vast house, and piloted her through some
garden paths. Then the girl herself, returning, opened a gate into a wood, where an undergrowth
of wild roses was just breaking into flower, and was soon pacing a mossy path out of sight
and sound of the house.

She found herself in a strange confusion of mind. She still saw the small tear-stained face,
the dingy finery, the tormented hair; the story she had just heard was still sounding in her
ears. But what really held her was the question: "Can I move Edward? What will he say to me?"

And in the stillness of the wood all the incidents of their Sunday together came back upon
her, and she stood breathless and amazed at the change which had passed over her life. Was
it really she, Marcia Coryston, who had been drawn into that atmosphere of happy and impassioned
religion?--drawn with a hand so gentle yet so irresistible? She had been most tenderly treated
by them all, even by that pious martinet, Lord William. And yet, how was it that the general
impression was that for the first time in her life she had been "dealt with," disciplined,
molded, by those who had a much clearer idea than she herself had of what she was to do and
where she was to go? Out of her mother's company she had been hitherto accustomed to be the
center of her own young world; to find her wishes, opinions, prejudices eagerly asked for,
and deferentially received. And she knew herself naturally wilful, conceited, keen to have
her own way.

But at Hoddon Grey, even in the most intimate and beautiful moments of the first love scenes
between herself and Newbury, she had seemed to be entering upon--moving--in a world where almost
nothing was left free for her to judge; where what she thought mattered very little, because
it was taken for granted that she would ultimately think as Hoddon Grey thought; would be cherished,
indeed, as the latest and dearest captive of the Hoddon Grey system and the Hoddon Grey beliefs.

And she had begun already to know the exquisite, the intoxicating joys of self-surrender. Every
hour had revealed to her something more of Newbury's lofty and singular character. The books
and occupations amid which his home life was passed, the letters of his Oxford friends to him,
and his to them; one letter in particular, from his chiefest and dearest friend, congratulating
him on his engagement, which had arrived that morning--these things had been for Marcia so
many steps in a new land, under new stars. The mixture in the man she was to marry, of gaiety,
of an overflowing enjoyment of life, expressing itself often in an endless childish joking--with
mystical sternness; the eager pursuit of beauty in art and literature, coupled with an unbending
insistence on authority, on the Church's law, whether in doctrine or conduct, together with
an absolute refusal to make any kind of terms with any sort of "Modernisms," so far at least
as they affected the high Anglican ideal of faith and practice--in relation to these facts
of Newbury's temperament and life she was still standing bewildered, half yielding and half
combative. That she was loved, she knew--knew it through every vein and pulse. Newbury's delight
in her, his tender worship of her, seemed to enwrap and encompass her. Now as she sat hidden
amid the June trees, trembling under the stress of recollection, she felt herself enskied,
exalted by such love. What could he see in her?--what was there in her--to deserve it?

And yet--and yet! Some penetrating instinct to which in this moment of solitude, of unwilling
reflection, she could not help but listen, told her that the very soul of him was not hers;
that the deepest foundation of his life was no human affection, but the rapture, the compelling
vision of a mystical faith. And that rapture she could never share; she knew herself; it was
not in her. One moment she could have cried out in despair over her own limitations and disabilities.
The next she was jealous; on fire.

Jealous!--that was the real, sadly human truth; jealous, as women have always been, of the
faith, or the art, or the friendship, which threatens their hold upon the lover. And there
stole upon her as she sat musing, the old, old temptation--the temptation of Psyche--to test
and try this man, who was to bring her into bondage, before the bonds were yet quite set. She
was honestly touched by Mrs. Betts's story. To her, in her first softness of love, it seemed
intolerably hard and odious that two people who clung to each other should be forcibly torn
apart; two people whom no law, but only an ecclesiastical scruple condemned. Surely Edward
would accept, and persuade his father to accept, the compromise which the husband and wife
suggested. If Mrs. Betts withdrew from the scene, from the estate, would not this satisfy everybody?
What further scandal could there be? She went on arguing it with herself, but all the time
the real, deepest motive at work was not so much sympathy, as a kind of excited restlessness
--curiosity. She saw herself pleading with Edward, breaking down his resistance, winning her
cause, and then, instead of triumphing, flinging herself into his arms, to ask pardon for daring
to fight him.

The happy tears blinded her, and fell unheeded until a mocking reaction dried them.

"Oh, what a fool!--what a fool!"

And running through the wood she came out into the sunshine at its farther end--a blaze of
sun upon the lake, its swans, its stone-rimmed islands, and statuary, on the gray-white front
of the pillared and porticoed house, stretching interminably. The flowers shone in the stiff
beds; a rain of blossom drifted through the air. Everything glittered and sparkled. It was
Corinthian, pretentious, artificial; but as Marcia hurried up the broad middle walk between
the queer gods and goddesses, whom some pupil of Bernini's had manufactured in Rome for a Coryston
of the eighteenth century, she was in love with the scene, which in general she disliked; in
love with the summer, in love above all with the quick life of her own mind and body....

There were persons talking in her mother's sitting-room--Sir Wilfrid, Arthur, and Coryston--she
perceived them through the open windows. The sight of Arthur suddenly sobered her, and diverted
her thoughts. For if Newbury now held the chief place in her mind, her mother still reigned
there. She--Marcia--must be on the spot to protect her mother!--in case protection were wanted,
and Coryston and Sir Wilfrid had not succeeded yet in bringing that mad fellow to his senses.
Ah! but they had all a new helper and counselor now--in Edward. Let Coryston abuse him to her,
if he dared! She would know how to defend him.

She hurried on.

Simultaneously, from the garden door of the library a figure emerged, a man with some books
under his arm. She recognized Lester, and a rush of something which was partly shyness and
partly a delicious pride came over her, to delay her steps.

They met under the wide open colonnade which carried the first story of the house. Lester came
toward her smiling and flushed.

"I've just heard," he said. "I do congratulate you. It's splendid!"

She gave him her hand; and he thought as he looked at her how happiness had beautified and
transformed her. All that was imperfect in the face seemed to have fallen into harmony; and
her dark bloom had never been so lovely.

"Yes, I'm very happy. He'll keep me in order! At least he'll try." Her eyes danced.

"Everybody seems extremely pleased," he said, walking at her side, and not indeed knowing what
to say.

"Except Coryston," replied Marcia, calmly. "I shall have a bad time with him."

"Stand up to him!" he laughed. "His bark is worse than his bite--Ah!--"

A sudden sound of vehement voices overhead--Lady Coryston's voice and Arthur's clashing--startled
them both.

"Oh, I must go!" cried Marcia, frowning and paling. "Thank you--thank you so much. Good-by."

And she ran into the house. Lester remained rooted in the shadows of the colonnade for a minute
or two, looking after her, with a set, abstracted face. Then the sound of the altercation overhead
smote him too with alarm. He moved quickly away lest through the open windows he might catch
what was said.

CHAPTER X

Marcia entered her mother's sitting-room in the midst of what seemed a babel of voices. James
Coryston, indeed, who was sitting in a corner of the room while Coryston and Sir Wilfrid Bury
argued across him, was not contributing to it. He was watching his mother, and she on the other
side of the room was talking rapidly to her son Arthur, who could evidently hardly control
himself sufficiently to listen to her.

As Marcia came in she heard Arthur say in a loud voice:

"Your attitude, mother, is perfectly unreasonable, and I will not submit to be dictated to
like this!"

Marcia, staying her foot half-way across the room, looked at her youngest brother in amazement.

Was this rough-mannered, rough-voiced man, Arthur?--the tame house-brother, and docile son
of their normal life? What was happening to them all?

Lady Coryston broke out:

"I repeat--you propose to me, Arthur, a bargain which is no bargain!--"

"A quid without a quo?" interrupted Coryston, who had suddenly dropped his argument with Sir
Wilfrid, and had thrown himself on a sofa near his mother and Arthur.

Lady Coryston took no notice of him. She continued to address her youngest-born.

"What Coryston may do--now--after all that has passed is to me a matter of merely secondary
importance. When I first saw the notice of the Martover meeting it was a shock to me--I admit
it. But since then he has done so many other things--he has struck at me in so many other ways--he
has so publicly and scandalously outraged family feeling, and political decency--"

"I really haven't," said Coryston, mildly. "I haven't--if this was a free country."

Lady Coryston flashed a sudden superb look at him and resumed:

"--that I really don't care what Coryston does. He has done his worst. I can't suffer any greater
insult than he has already put upon me--"

Coryston shook his head, mutely protesting. He seized a pen from a table near, and began to
bite and strip it with an absent face.

"But you, Arthur!" his mother went on with angry emphasis, "have still a character to lose
or gain. As I have said, it doesn't now matter vitally to me whether Coryston is in the chair
or not--I regard him as merely Glenwilliam's cat's-paw--but if you let this meeting at Martover
pass, you will have weakened your position in this constituency, you will have disheartened
your supporters, you will have played the coward--and you will have left your mother disgracefully
in the lurch--though that latter point I can see doesn't move you at all!"

James and Sir Wilfrid Bury came anxiously to join the group. Sir Wilfrid approached the still
standing and distressed Marcia. Drawing her hand within his arm, he patted it kindly.

"We can't persuade your mother, my dear. Suppose you try."

"Mother, you can't insist on Arthur's going through with the meeting if he doesn't wish to!"
said Marcia, with animation. "Do let him give it up! It would be so easy to postpone it."

Lady Coryston turned upon her.

"Everything is easy in your eyes, no doubt, Marcia, except that he should do his duty, and
spare my feelings! As a matter of fact you know perfectly well that Arthur has always allowed
me to arrange these things for him."

"I don't mean, mother, to do so in future!" said Arthur, resolutely turning upon her. "You
must leave me to manage my own life and my own affairs."

Lady Coryston's features quivered in her long bony face. As she sat near the window, on a high
chair, fully illumined, in a black velvet dress, long-waisted, and with a kind of stand-up
ruffle at the throat, she was amazingly Queen Bess. James, who was always conscious of the
likeness, could almost have expected her to rise and say in the famous words of the Queen to
Cecil--"Little man, little man, your father durst not have said 'must' to me!"

But instead she threw her son a look of furious contempt, with the words:

"You have been glad enough of my help, Arthur, in the past; you have never been able indeed
to do without it. I am under no illusions as to your Parliamentary abilities--unaided."

"Mother!--" cried Marcia and James simultaneously.

Coryston shrugged his shoulders. Arthur, breaking from Sir Wilfrid's restraining hand, approached
his mother. His face was inflamed with anger, his eyes bloodshot.

"You like to say these cruel things, mother. We have all put up with them long enough. My father
put up with them long enough. I intend to think for myself in future. I don't think of Glenwilliam
as you do. I know him--and I know his daughter."

The last words were spoken with a special emphasis. A movement of alarm--in Marcia's case,
of terror--ran through all the spectators. Sir Wilfrid caught the speaker by the arm, but was
impatiently shaken off.

Lady Coryston met her son's eyes with equal passion.

"An intriguer--an unscrupulous intriguer--like himself!" said Lady Coryston, with cutting emphasis.

Arthur's flush turned to pallor. Coryston, springing up, raised a warning hand. "Take care,
old fellow!" Marcia and James came forward. But Arthur thrust them aside.

"Mother and I have got to settle this!" He came to lean over her, looking into her face. "I
advise you to be careful, mother, of what you say!" There was a dreadful pause. Then he lifted
himself and said, with folded arms, slowly, still looking hard at Lady Coryston: "I am--in
love--with the lady to whom you refer in that unjustifiable manner. I wish to marry her--and
I am doing my best to persuade her to marry me. Now you understand perhaps why I didn't wish
to attack her father at this particular juncture."

"Arthur!"

Marcia threw herself upon her brother, to lead him away. Coryston, meanwhile, with lifted brows
and the prominent greenish eyes beneath them starting out of his head, never ceased to observe
his mother. There was trouble--and a sudden softness--in his look.

Silence reigned, for a few painful moments. The eyes of the two combatants were on each other.
The change in Lady Coryston's aspect was something quite different from what is ordinarily
described as "turning pale." It represented rather the instinctive and immediate rally of the
whole human personality in the presence of danger more deadly than any it has yet encountered.
It was the gray rally of strength, not the pallor of fear. She laughed--as she passed her handkerchief
over her lips--so Marcia thought afterward--to hide their trembling.

"I thank you for your frankness, Arthur. You will hardly expect me to wish you success in such
a love affair, or to further your suit. But your confession--your astonishing confession--does
at least supply some reason for your extraordinary behavior. For the present--for the present"--she
spoke slowly--"I cease to press you to speak at this meeting which has been announced. It can
at any rate be postponed. As to the other and graver matter, we will discuss it later--and
in private. I must take time to think it over."

She rose. James came forward.

"May I come with you, mother?"

She frowned a little.

"Not now, James, not now. I must write some letters immediately, with regard to the meeting."

And without another look at any of her children, she walked proudly through the room. Sir Wilfrid
threw the door open for her, and murmured something in her ear--no doubt an offer of consultation.
But she only shook her head; and he closed the door.

Then while Arthur, his hands on his hips, walked restlessly up and down, and Coryston, lying
back on the sofa, stared at the ceiling, Marcia, James, and Sir Wilfrid looked at each other
in a common dismay.

Sir Wilfrid spoke first:

"Are we really, Arthur, to take the statement you have just made seriously?"

Arthur turned impatiently.

"Do I look like joking?"

"I wish you did," said Sir Wilfrid, dryly. "It would be a comfort to us."

"Luckily mother doesn't believe a word of it!"

The voice was Coryston's, directed apparently at the Adam decoration of the ceiling.

Arthur stood still.

"What do you mean?"

"No offense. I dare say she believed you. But the notion strikes her as too grotesque to be
bothered about."

"She may be right there," said Arthur, gloomily, resuming his walk.

"Whether she is or not, she'll take good care, my boy, that nothing comes of it," was Coryston's
murmured comment. But the words were lost in his mustache. He turned to look at James, who
was standing at the open window gazing into the garden. Something in his brother's meditative
back seemed to annoy him. He aimed at it with a crumpled envelope he held in his hand, and
hit it. James turned with a start.

"Look here, James--this isn't Hegel--and it isn't Lotze--and it isn't Bergson--it's life. Haven't
you got a remark to contribute?"

James's blue eyes showed no resentment.

"I'm very sorry for you all," he said, quietly, "especially for mother."

"Why?"

"Because she's the oldest. We've got the future. She hasn't."

The color rushed to Marcia's face. She looked gratefully at her brother. Sir Wilfrid's gray
head nodded agreement.

"Hm!" said Coryston, "I don't see that. At least, of course it has a certain truth. But it
doesn't present itself to me as a ground for sparing the older generation. In fact"--he sprang
to his feet--"present company--present family excepted--we're being ruined--stick stock ruined--by
the elder generation! They're in our way everywhere! Why don't they withdraw--and let us take
the stage? We know more than they. We're further evolved--we're better informed. And they will
insist on pitting their years against our brains all over the field. I tell you the world can't
get on like this. Something will have to be done. We're choked up with the older generation."

"Yes, for those who have no reverence--and no pity!" said Marcia.

The low intensity of her voice brought the looks of all three brothers upon her in some evident
surprise. None of them had yet ceased to regard their sister as a child, with opinions not
worth speculating about. Coryston flushed, involuntarily.

"My withers are unwrung," he said, not without bravado. "You don't understand, my dear. Do
I want to do the elder generation any damage? Not at all! But it is time the elder generation
withdrew to the chimney-corner and gave us our rights! You think that ungrateful--disrespectful?
Good heavens! What do we care about the people, our contemporaries, with whom we are always
fighting and scuffling in what we are pleased to call action? The people who matter to us are
the people who rest us--and calm us--and bind up our wounds. If instead of finding a woman
to argue and wrestle with I had found just a mother here, knitting by the fire"--he threw out
a hand toward Lady Coryston's empty chair--"with time to smile and think and jest--with no
ax to grind--and no opinions to push--do you think I shouldn't have been at her feet--her slave,
her adorer? Besides, the older generation have ground their axes, and pushed their opinions,
long enough--they have had thirty years of it! We should be the dancers now, and they the wall-flowers.
And they won't play the game!"

"Don't pretend that you and your mother could ever have played any game--together--Corry,"
said Sir Wilfrid, sharply.

Coryston looked at him queerly, good-humoredly.

"One might argue till doomsday--I agree--as to which of us said 'won't play' first. But there
it is. It's our turn. And you elders won't give it us. Now mother's going to try a little tyranny
on Arthur--having made a mess of me. What's the sense of it? It's we who have the youth--we
who have the power--we who know more than our elders simply because we were born thirty years
later! Let the old submit, and we'll cushion the world for them, and play them out of it with
march-music! But they will fight us--and they can't win!"

His hands on his sides, Coryston stood confronting them all, his eyes glittering.

"What stuff you do talk, Coryston!" said Arthur, half angrily, half contemptuously. "What good
does it do to anybody?" And he resumed his restless walk.

"All flung, too, at a man of peace like me," said the white-haired Sir Wilfrid, with his quiet
smile. "It takes all sorts, my dear Corry, to play the game of a generation--old and young.
However, the situation is too acute for moralizing. Arthur, are you open to any sort of advice
from an old friend?"

"Yes," said Arthur, unwillingly, "if I weren't so jolly sure what it would be."

"Don't be so sure. Come and take me a turn in the lime avenue before lunch."

The two disappeared. James followed them. Marcia, full of disquiet, was going off to find Lady
Coryston when Coryston stopped her.

"I say, Marcia--it's true--isn't it? You're engaged to Newbury?"

She turned proudly, confronting him.

"I am."

"I'm not going to congratulate you!" he said, vehemently. "I've got a deal to say to you. Will
you allow me to say it?"

"Whenever you like," said Marcia, indifferently.

Coryston perched himself on the edge of a table beside her, looking down upon her, his hands
thrust into his pockets.

"How much do you know of this Betts business?" he asked her, abruptly.

"A good deal--considering you sent Mrs. Betts to see me this morning!"

"Oh, she came, did she? Well, do you see any common sense, any justice, any Christianity in
forcing that woman to leave her husband--in flinging her out to the wolves again, just as she
has got into shelter?"

"In Edward's view, Mr. Betts is not her husband," said Marcia, defiantly. "You seem to forget
that fact."

"'Edward's view'?" repeated Coryston, impatiently. "My dear, what's Edward got to do with it?
He's not the law of the land. Let him follow his own law if he likes. But to tear up other
people's lives by the roots, in the name of some private particular species of law that you
believe in and they don't, is really too much--at this time of day. You ought to stop it, Marcia!--and
you must!"

"Who's tyrannizing now?" said Marcia. "Haven't other people as good a right to live their beliefs
as you?"

"Yes, so long as they don't destroy other people in the process. Even I am not anarchist enough
for that."

"Well," said Marcia, coolly, "the Newburys are making it disagreeable for Mr. and Mrs. Betts
because they disapprove of them. And what else are you doing with mamma?"

She threw a triumphant look at her brother.

"Stuff and nonsense!" cried Coryston, jumping up. "The weakest 'score' I ever heard. Don't
you know the difference between the things that are vital and the things that are superficial--between
fighting opinions, and destroying a life, between tilting and boxing, however roughly--and
murdering?"

He looked at her fiercely.

"Who talks of murdering!" The tone was scornful.

"I do! If the Newburys drive those two apart they will have a murder of souls on their conscience.
And if you talked to that woman this morning you know it as well as I!"

Marcia faltered a little.

"They could still meet as friends."

"Yes, under the eyes of holy women!--spying lest any impropriety occur! That's the proposal,
I understand. Of all the vile and cold-blooded suggestions!--"

And restraining himself with the utmost difficulty, as one might hang on to the curb of a bolting
horse, Coryston stamped up and down the room, till speech was once more possible. Then he came
to an abrupt pause before his sister.

"Are you really in love with this man, Marcia?"

So challenged, Marcia did not deign to answer. She merely looked up at Coryston, motionless,
faintly smiling. He took his answer, dazzled at the same time by her emerging and developing
beauty.

"Well, if you do love him," he said, slowly, "and he loves you, make him have pity! Those two,
also, love each other. That woman is a poor common little thing. She was a poor common little
actress with no talent, before her first husband married her--she's a common little actress
now, even when she feels most deeply. You probably saw it, and it repelled you. You can afford,
you see, to keep a fine taste, and fastidious feelings! But if you tear her from that man,
you kill all that's good in her--you ruin all her miserable chances. That man's raising her.
Bit by bit he'll stamp his own character into hers--because she loves him. And Betts himself,
a great, silent, hard man, who has once in his life done a splendid thing!--forgotten himself
head over ears for a woman--and is now doing his level best to make a good job of her--you
Christians are going to reward him first by breaking his heart, and tearing his life-work to
pieces!--God!--I wish your Master were here to tell you what He'd think of it!"

"You're not His only interpreter!" cried Marcia, breathing quickly. "It's in His name that
Edward and his father are acting. You daren't say--you daren't think--that it's for mere authority's
sake--mere domination's sake!"

Coryston eyed her in silence a little.

"No use in arguing this thing on its merits," he said, curtly, at last. "You don't know enough
about it, and Newbury and I shouldn't have a single premise in common. But I just warn you
and him--it's a ticklish game playing with a pair of human lives like these. They are sensitive,
excitable people--I don't threaten--I only say--take care!"

"'Game,' 'play'--what silly words to use about such men as Edward and his father, in such a
matter!" said Marcia as she rose, breathing contempt. "I shall talk to Edward--I promised Mrs.
Betts. But I suppose, Corry, it's no good saying, to begin with, that when you talk of tyranny,
you seem to me at any rate, the best tyrant of the lot."

The girl stood with her head thrown back, challenging her brother, her whole slender form poised
for battle.

Coryston shook his head.

"Nonsense! I play the gadfly--to all the tyrants." "A tyrant," repeated his sister, steadily.
"And an unkind wretch into the bargain! I was engaged--yesterday--and have you said one nice,
brotherly word to me?"

Her lips trembled. Coryston turned away.

"You are giving yourself to the forces of reaction," he said, between his teeth, "the forces
that are everywhere fighting liberty--whether in the individual--or the State. Only, unfortunately
"--he turned with a smile, the sudden gaiety of which fairly startled his sister--"as far as
matrimony is concerned, I seem to be doing precisely the same thing myself."

"Corry! what on earth do you mean?"

"Ah! wouldn't you like to know? Perhaps you will some day," said Coryston, with a provoking
look. "Where's my hat?" He looked round him for the battered article that served him for head-gear.
"Well, good-by, Marcia. If you can pull this thing off with your young man, I'm your servant
and his. I'd even grovel to Lord William. The letter I wrote him was a pretty stiff document,
I admit. If not--"

"Well, if not?"

"War!" was the short reply, as her brother made for the door.

Then suddenly he came back to say:

"Keep an eye on mother. As far as Arthur's concerned--she's dangerous. She hasn't the smallest
intention of letting him marry that girl. And here too it'll be a case of meddling with forces
you don't understand. Keep me informed."

"Yes--if you promise to help him--and her--to break it off," said Marcia, firmly.

Coryston slowly shook his head; and went.

Meanwhile Lady Coryston, having shaken off all companions, had betaken herself for greater
privacy to a solitary walk. She desired to see neither children nor friends nor servants till
she had made up her mind what she was going to do. As generally happened with her in the bad
moments of life, the revelation of what threatened her had steeled and nerved her to a surprising
degree. Her stately indoor dress had been exchanged for a short tweed gown, and, as she walked
briskly along, her white hair framed in the drawn hood of black silk which she wore habitually
on country walks, she had still a wonderful air of youth, and indeed she had never felt herself
more vigorous, more alert. Occasionally a strange sense of subterranean peril made itself felt
in the upper regions of the mind, caused by something she never stopped to analyze. It was
not without kinship with the feeling of the gambler who has been lucky too long, and knows
that the next stroke may--probably will--end it, and bring down the poised ruin. But it made
no difference whatever to the gradual forging of her plan and the clearness of her resolve.

So now she understood all that during the two preceding months had increasingly perplexed her.
Arthur had been laid hands on by the temptress just before his maiden speech in Parliament,
and had done no good ever since. At the time when his mother had inflicted a social stigma
as public as she could make it on a Minister who in her eyes deserved impeachment, by refusing
to go through even the ordinary conventions of allowing him to arm her down to dinner and take
his seat beside her at a large London party, Arthur was courting the daughter of the criminal;
and the daughter was no doubt looking forward with glee to the moment of her equally public
triumph over his mother. Lady Coryston remembered the large mocking eyes of Enid Glenwilliam,
as seen amid the shadows of a dark drawing-room, about a fortnight later than the dinner-party,
when with a consistency which seemed to her natural, and also from a wish to spare the girl's
feelings, she had declined to be introduced, at the suggestion of another blundering hostess,
to Glenwilliam's daughter. And all the time--all the time--the handsome, repellent creature
was holding Arthur's life and Arthur's career in the hollow of her hand!

Well, she would not hold them so for long. Lady Coryston said to herself that she perfectly
understood what Miss Glenwilliam was after. The circumstances of Coryston's disinheritance
were now well known to many people; the prospects of the younger son were understood. The Glenwilliams
were poor; the prospects of the party doubtful; the girl ambitious. To lay hands on the Coryston
estates and the position which a Coryston marriage could give the daughter of the Yorkshire
check-weigher--the temptation had only to be stated to be realized. And, no doubt, in addition,
there would be the sweetness--for such persons as the Glenwilliams--of a planned and successful
revenge.

