After a moderately bright morning, that after-breakfast fog which we owe to the British kitchen
and the domestic hearth was descending on the Strand. The stream of traffic, on the roadway
and the pavements, was passing to and fro under a yellow darkness; the shop-lights were beginning
to flash out here and there, but without any of their evening cheerfulness; and on the passing
faces one saw written the inconvenience and annoyance of the fog--the fear, too, lest it should
become worse and impenetrable.

Fenwick was groping his way along, eastward; one moment feeling and hating the depression of
the February day, of the grimy, overcrowded street; the next, responsive to some dimly beautiful
effect of colour or line--some quiver of light--some grouping of phantom forms in the gloom.
Halfway towards the Law-Courts he was hailed and overtaken by a tall, fair-haired man.

'Hallo, Fenwick!--just the man I wanted to see!'

Fenwick, whose eyes--often very troublesome of late--were smarting with the fog, peered at
the speaker, and recognised Philip Cuningham. His face darkened a little as they shook hands.

'What did you want me for?'

'Did you know that poor old Watson had come back to town--ill?'

'No!' cried Fenwick, arrested. 'I thought he was in Algiers.'

Cuningham walked on beside him, telling what he knew, Fenwick all the time dumbly vexed that
this good-looking, prosperous fellow, this Academician in his new fur coat, breathing success
and commissions, should know more of his best friend's doings than he.

Watson, it appeared, had been seized with hemorrhage at Marseilles, and had thereupon given
up his winter plans, and crawled home to London, as soon as he was sufficiently recovered to
bear the journey. Fenwick, much troubled, protested that it was madness to have come back to
the English winter.

'No,' said Cuningham, looking grave. 'Better die at home than among strangers. And I'm afraid
it's come to that, dear old fellow!'

Then he described--with evident self-satisfaction--how he had heard, from a common friend,
of Watson's arrival, how he had rescued the invalid from a dingy Bloomsbury hotel, and settled
him in some rooms in Fitzroy Square, with a landlady who could be trusted.

'We must have a nurse before long--but he won't have one yet. He wants badly to see you. I
told him I'd look you up this evening. But this'll do instead, won't it? You'll remember?--23,
Fitzroy Square. Shall I tell him when he may expect you? Every day we try to get him some little
pleasure or other.'

Fenwick's irritation grew. Cuningham was talking as though the old relation between him and
Richard Watson were still intact; while Fenwick knew well how thin and superficial the bond
had grown.

'I shall go to-day,' he said, rather shortly. 'I have two or three things to do this morning,
but there'll be time before my rehearsal this afternoon.'

'Your rehearsal?' Cuningham looked amiably curious.

Fenwick explained, but with fresh annoyance. The papers had been full enough of this venture
on which he was engaged; Cuningham's ignorance offended him.

'Ah, indeed--very interesting,' said Cuningham, vaguely. 'Well, good-bye. I must jump into
a hansom.'

'Where are you off to?'

'The Goldsmiths' Company are building a new Hall, and they want my advice about its decoration.
Precious difficult, though, to get away from one's pictures, this time of year, isn't it?'

He hailed a hansom as he spoke.

'That's not a difficulty that applies to me,' said Fenwick, shortly.

Cuningham stared--frowned--and remembered.

'Oh, my dear fellow--what a mistake that was!--if you'll let me say so. Can't we put it right?
Command me at any time.'

'Thank you. I prefer it as it is.'

'We'll talk it over. Well, good-bye. Don't forget old Dick.'

Fenwick walked on, fuming. Cuningham, he said to himself, was now the type of busy, pretentious
mediocrity, the type which eternally keeps English art below the level of the Continent.

'I say--one moment! Have you had any news of the Findons lately?'

Fenwick turned sharply, and again saw Cuningham, whose hansom had been blocked by the traffic,
close to the pavement. He was hanging over the door, and smiling.

In reply to the question, Fenwick merely shook his head.

'I had a capital letter from her ladyship a week or two ago,' said Cuningham, raising his voice,
and bringing himself as near to Fenwick as his position allowed. 'The old fellow seems to be
as fit as ever. But Madame de Pastourelles must be very much changed.'

Fenwick said nothing. It might have been thought that the traffic prevented his hearing Cuningham's
remark. But he had heard distinctly.

'Do you know when they'll be home?' he asked, reluctantly, walking beside the hansom.

'No--haven't an idea. I believe I'm to go to them for Easter. Ah!--now we go on. Ta-ta!'

He waved his hand, and the hansom moved away.

Fenwick pursued his walk plunged in disagreeable thought. 'Much changed?' What did that mean?
He had noticed no such change before the Findons left London. The words fell like a fresh blow
upon a wound.

He turned north, toward Lincoln's Inn Fields, called at the offices of Messrs. Butlin & Forbes,
the well-known solicitors, and remained there half an hour. When he emerged from the old house,
he looked, if possible, more harried and cast down than when he had entered it.

They had had a letter to show him, but in his opinion it contributed nothing. There was no
hope--and no clue! How could there be? He had never himself imagined for a moment that any
gain would come of these new researches. But he had been allowed no option with regard to them.
Immediately after his return to London from Versailles he had received a stern letter from
Lord Findon, insisting--as his daughter had already done--that the only reparation he, Fenwick,
could make to the friends he had so long and cruelly deceived, was to allow them a free hand
in a fresh attempt to discover his wife, and so to clear Madame de Pastourelles from the ridiculous
suspicions that Mrs. Fenwick had been led so disastrously to entertain. 'Most shamefully and
indefensibly my daughter has been made to feel herself an accomplice in Mrs. Fenwick's disappearance,'
wrote Lord Findon; 'the only amends you can ever make for your conduct will lie in new and
vigorous efforts, even at this late hour, to find and to undeceive your wife.'

Hence, during November and December, constant meetings and consultations in the well-known
offices of Lord Findon's solicitors. At these meetings both Madame de Pastourelles and her
father had been often present, and she had followed the debates with a quick and strained intelligence,
which often betrayed to Fenwick the suffering behind. He painfully remembered with what gentleness
and chivalry Eugénie had always treated him personally on these occasions, with what anxious
generosity she had tried to curb her father.

But there had been no private conversation between them. Not only did they shrink from it;
Lord Findon could not have borne it. The storm of family and personal pride which the disclosure
of Fenwick's story had aroused in the old man had been of a violence impossible to resist.
That Fenwick's obscure and crazy wife should have dared to entertain jealousy of a being so
far above his ken and hers, as Eugénie then was--that she should have made a ridiculous tragedy
out of it--and that Fenwick should have conduced to the absurd and insulting imbroglio by his
ill-bred and vulgar concealment:--these things were so irritating to Lord Findon that they
first stimulated a rapid recovery from his illness at Versailles, and then led him to frantic
efforts on Phoebe's behalf, which were in fact nothing but the expression of his own passionate
pride and indignation--resting, no doubt ultimately, on those weeks at Versailles when even
he, with all the other bystanders, had supposed that Eugénie would marry this man. His mood,
indeed, had been a curious combination of wounded affection with a class arrogance stiffened
by advancing age and long indulgence. When, in those days, the old man entered the room where
Fenwick was, he bore his grey head and sparkling eyes with the air of a teased lion.

Fenwick, a man of violent temper, would have found much difficulty in keeping the peace under
these circumstances, but for the frequent presence of Eugénie, and the pressure of his own
dull remorse. 'I too--have--much to forgive!'--that, he knew well, would be the only reference
involving personal reproach that he would ever hear from her lips, either to his original deceit,
or to those wild weeks at Versailles (that so much ranker and sharper offence!)--when, in his
loneliness and craving, he had gambled both on her ignorance and on Phoebe's death. Yet he
did not deceive himself. The relation between them was broken; he had lost his friend. Her
very cheerfulness and gentleness somehow enforced it. How natural!--how just! None the less
his bitter realisation of it had worked with crushing effect upon a miserable man.

About Christmas, Lord Findon's health had again caused his family anxiety. He was ordered to
Cannes, and Eugénie accompanied him. Before she went she had gone despairingly once more through
all the ingenious but quite fruitless inquiries instituted by the lawyers; and she had written
a kind letter to Fenwick begging to be kept informed, and adding at the end a few timid words
expressing her old sympathy with his work, and her best wishes for the success of the pictures
that she understood he was to exhibit in the spring.

Then she and her father departed. Fenwick had felt their going as perhaps the sharpest pang
in this intolerable winter. But he had scarcely answered her letter. What was there to say?
At least he had never asked her or her father for money--had never owed Lord Findon a penny.
There was some small comfort in that.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nevertheless, it was of money that he thought--and must think--night and day.

After his interview with the magnificent gentlemen in Lincoln's Inn Fields, he made his way
wearily to a much humbler office in Bedford Row. Here was a small solicitor to whom he had
often resorted lately, under the constant pressure of his financial difficulties. He spent
an hour in this man's room. When he came out, he walked fast towards Oxford Street and the
west, hardly conscious in his excitement of where he was going. The lawyer he had just seen
had for the first time mentioned the word 'bankruptcy.' 'I scarcely see, Mr. Fenwick, how you
can avoid it.'

Well, it might come to that--it might. But he still had his six pictures--time to finish two
others that were now on hand--and the exhibition.

It was with that he was now concerned. He called on the manager of a small gallery near Hanover
Square with whom he had already made an arrangement for the coming May--paying a deposit on
the rent--early in the winter. In his anxiety, he wished now to make the matter still clearer,
to pay down the rest of the rent if need be. He had the notes always in his breast-pocket,
jealously hidden away, lest any other claim, amid the myriads which pressed upon him, should
sweep them from him.

The junior partner in charge of the gallery and the shop of which it made part, received him
very coldly. The firm had long since regretted their bargain with a man whose pictures were
not likely to sell, especially as they could have relet the gallery to much better advantage.
But their contract with Fenwick--clinched by the deposit--could not be evaded; so they were
advised.

