THROUGH FIVE REPUBLICS ON HORSEBACK

BEING AN ACCOUNT OF MANY WANDERINGS IN SOUTH AMERICA

BY

G. WHITFIELD RAY, F. R. G. S. Pioneer Missionary and Government Explorer

With an Introduction by the Rev. J. G. Brown, D. D. Secretary for the Foreign Missions of the
Canadian Baptist Church

TWELFTH EDITION--REVISED

EVANGELICAL PUBLISHING HOUSE C. HAUSER, Agent CLEVELAND, OHIO, U. S. A. 1915

PREFACE

The Missionary Review of the World has described South America as THE DARKEST LAND. That I
have been able to penetrate into part of its unexplored interior, and visit tribes of people
hitherto untouched and unknown, was urged as sufficient reason for the publishing of this work.
In perils oft, through hunger and thirst and fever, consequent on the many wanderings in unhealthy
climes herein recorded, the writer wishes publicly to record his deep thankfulness to Almighty
God for His unfailing help. If the accounts are used to stimulate missionary enterprise, and
if they give the reader a clearer conception of and fuller sympathy with the conditions and
needs of those South American countries, those years of travel will not have been in vain.

"Of the making of books there is no end," so when one is acceptably received, and commands
a ready sale, the author is satisfied that his labor is well repaid. The 4th edition was scarcely
dry when the Consul-General of the Argentine Republic at Ottawa ordered a large number of copies
to send to the members of his Government. Much of it has been translated into German, and I
know not what other languages. Even the Catholic Register of Toronto has boosted its sale by
printing much in abuse of it, at the same time telling its readers that the book "sold like
hot cakes." A wiser editor would have been discreet enough not to refer to "Through Five Republics
on Horseback." His readers bought it, and--had their eyes opened, for the statements made in
this work, and the authorities quoted, are unanswerable.

Seeing that there is such an alarming ignorance regarding Latin America, I have, for this edition,
written an Introductory Chapter on South America, and also a short Foreword especially relating
to each of the Five Republics here treated. As my portrayal of Romanism there has caused some
discussion, I have, in those pages, sought to incorporate the words of other authorities on
South American life and religion.

That the following narratives, now again revised, and sent forth in new garb, may be increasingly
helpful in promoting knowledge, is the earnest wish of the author.

G. W. R.

Toronto, Ont.

INTRODUCTION

"Through Five Republics on Horseback" has all the elements of a great missionary book. It is
written by an author who is an eye-witness of practically all that he records, and one who
by his explorations and travels has won for himself the title of the "Livingstone of South
America." The scenes depicted by the writer and the glimpses into the social, political and
religious conditions prevailing in the Republics in the great Southern continent are of thrilling
interest to all lovers of mankind. We doubt if there is another book in print that within the
compass of three hundred pages begins to give as much valuable information as is contained
in Mr. Ray's volume. The writer wields a facile pen, and every page glows with the passion
of a man on fire with zeal for the evangelization of the great "Neglected Continent." We are
sure that no one can read this book and be indifferent to the claims of South America upon
the Christian Church of this generation.

To those who desire to learn just what the fruits of Romanism as a system are, when left to
itself and uninfluenced by Protestantism, this book will prove a real eye-opener. We doubt
if any Christian man, after reading "Through Five Republics on Horseback," will any longer
conclude that Romanism is good enough for Romanists and that Missions to Roman Catholic countries
are an impertinence. We trust the book will awaken a great interest in the evangelization of
the Latin Republics of South America.

Of course, this volume will have interest for others besides missionary enthusiasts. Apart
from the religious and missionary purpose of the book, it contains very much in the way of
geographical, historical and scientific information, and that, too, in regard to a field of
which as yet comparatively little is known. The writer has kept an open mind in his extensive
travels, and his record abounds in facts of great scientific value.

We have known Mr. Ray for several years and delight to bear testimony to his ability and faithfulness
as a preacher and pastor. As a lecturer on his experiences in South America he is unexcelled.
We commend "Through Five Republics on Horseback" especially to parents who are anxious to put
into the hands of their children inspiring and character-forming reading. A copy of the book
ought to be in every Sunday School Library.

J. G. Brown.

626 Confederation Life Building, Toronto.

A PRELIMINARY WORD ON SOUTH AMERICA

The Continent of South America was discovered by Spanish navigators towards the end of the
fifteenth century. When the tidings of a new world beyond the seas reached Europe, Spanish
and Portuguese expeditions vied with each other in exploring its coasts and sailing up its
mighty rivers.

In 1494 the Pope decided that these new lands, which were nearly twice the size of Europe,
should become the possession of the monarchs of Spain and Portugal. Thus by right of conquest
and gift South America with its seven and a half million miles of territory and its millions
of Indian inhabitants was divided between Spain and Portugal. The eastern northern half, now
called Brazil, became the possession of the Portuguese crown and the rest of the continent
went to the crown of Spain. South America is 4,600 miles from north to south, and its greatest
breadth from east to west is 3,500 miles. It is a country of plains and mountains and rivers.
The Andean range of mountains is 4,400 miles long. Twelve peaks tower three miles or more above
ocean level, and some reach into the sky for more than four miles. Many of these are burning
mountains; the volcano of Cotopaxi is three miles higher than Vesuvius. Its rivers are among
the longest in the world. The Amazon, Orinoco and La Plata systems drain an area of 3,686,400
square miles. Its plains are almost boundless and its forests limitless. There are deserts
where no rain ever falls, and there are stretches of coast line where no day ever passes without
rain. It is a country where all climates can be found. As the northern part of the continent
is equatorial the greatest degree of heat is there experienced, while the south stretches its
length toward the Pole Quito, the capital of Ecuador, is on the equator, and Punta Arenas,
in Chile, is the southernmost town in the world.

For hundreds of years Spain and Portugal exploited and ruled with an iron hand their new and
vast possessions. Their coffers were enriched by fabulous sums of gold and treasure, for the
wildest dream of riches indulged in by its discoverers fell infinitely short of the actual
reality. Large numbers of colonists left the Iberian peninsula for the newer and richer lands.
Priests, monks and nuns went in every vessel, and the Roman Catholicism of the Dark Ages was
soon firmly established as the only religion. The aborigines were compelled to bow before the
crucifix and worship Mary until, in a peculiar sense, South America became the Pope's favorite
parish. For the benefit of any, native or colonist, who thought that a purer religion should
be, at any rate, permitted, the Inquisition was established at Lima, and later on at Cartagena,
where, Colombian history informs us, 400,000 were condemned to death. Free thought was soon
stamped out when death became the penalty.

Such was the wild state of the country and the power vested in the priests that abuses were
tolerated which, even in Rome, had not been dreamed of. The priests, as anxious for spiritual
conquest as the rest were for physical, joined hands with the heathenism of the Indians, accepted
their gods of wood and stone as saints, set up the crucifix side by side with the images of
the sun and moon, formerly worshipped; and while in Europe the sun of the Reformation arose
and dispelled the terrible night of religious error and superstition, South America sank from
bad to worse. Thus the anomaly presented itself of the old, effete lands throwing off the yoke
of religious domination while the younger ones were for centuries to be content with sinking
lower and lower. [Footnote: History is repeating itself, for here in Canada we see Quebec more
Catholic and intolerant than Italy. The Mayor of Rome dared to criticize the Pope in 1910,
but in the same year at the Eucharistic Congress at Montreal his emissaries receive reverent
"homage" from those in authority. No wonder, therefore, that, while the Romans are being more
enlightened every year, a Quebec young man, who is now a theological student in McMaster University,
Toronto, declared, while staying in the writer's home, that, as a child he was always taught
that Protestants grew horns on their heads, and that he attained the age of 15 before ever
he discovered that such was not the case. Even backward Portugal has had its eyes opened to
see that Rome and progress cannot walk together, but the President of Brazil is so "faithful"
that the Pope, in 1910, made him a "Knight of the Golden Spur."]

If the religious emancipation of the old world did not find its echo in South America, ideas
of freedom from kingly oppression began to take root in the hearts of the people, and before
the year 1825 the Spanish colonies had risen against the mother country and had formed themselves
into several independent republics, while three years before that the independence of Brazil
from Portugal had been declared. At the present day no part of the vast continent is ruled
by either Spain or Portugal, but ten independent republics have their different flags and governments.

Since its early discovery South America has been pre-eminently a country of bloodshed. Revolution
has succeeded revolution and hundreds of thousands of the bravest have been slain, but, phoenix-
like, the country rises from its ashes.

Fifty millions of people now dwell beneath the Southern Cross and speak the Portuguese and
Spanish languages, and it is estimated that, with the present rate of increase, 180 millions
of people will speak these languages by 1920.

South America is, pre-eminently, the coming continent. It is more thinly settled than any other
part of the world. At least six million miles of its territory are suitable for immigrants--double
the available territory of the United States. "No other tract of good land exists that is so
large and so unoccupied as South America." [Footnote: Dr. Wood, Lima, Peru, in "Protestant
Missions in South America."] "One of the most marvellous of activities in the development of
virgin lands is in progress. It is greater than that of Siberia, of Australia, or the Canadian
North-West." [Footnote: The Outlook, March, 1908.] Emigrants are pouring into the continent
from crowded Europe, the old order of things is quickly passing away, and docks and railroads
are being built. Bolivia is spending more than fifty million dollars in new work. Argentina
and Chile are pushing lines in all directions. Brazil is preparing to penetrate her vast jungles,
and all this means enormous expense, for the highest points and most difficult construction
that have ever been encountered are found in Peru, and between Chile and Argentina there has
been constructed the longest tunnel in the world. [Footnote: One railway ascends to the height
of 12,800 feet.]

Most important of all, the old medieval Romanism of the Dark Ages is losing its grip upon the
masses, and slowly, but surely, the leaven is working which will, before another decade, bring
South America to the forefront of the nations.

The economic possibilities of South America cannot be overestimated. It is a continent of vast
and varied possibilities. There are still districts as large as the German Empire entirely
unexplored, and tribes of Indians who do not yet know that America has been "discovered."

This is a continent of spiritual need. The Roman Catholic Church has been a miserable failure.
"Nearly 7,000,000 of people in South America still adhere, more or less openly, to the fetishisms
of their ancestors, while perhaps double that number live altogether beyond the reach of Christian
influence, even if we take the word Christian in its widest meaning." [Footnote: Report of
Senor F. de Castello] The Rev. W. B. Grubb, a missionary in Paraguay, says: "The greatest unexplored
region at present known on earth is there. It contains, as far as we know, 300 distinct Indian
nations, speaking 300 distinct languages, and numbering some millions, all in the darkest heathenism."
H. W. Brown, in "Latin America," says, "There is a pagan population of four to five millions."
Then, with respect to the Roman Catholic population, Rev. T. B. Wood, LL.D., in "Protestant
Missions in South America," says, "South America is a pagan field, properly speaking. Its image-worship
is idolatry. Abominations are grosser and more universal than among Roman Catholics in Europe
and the United States, where Protestantism has greatly modified Catholicism. But it is worse
off than any other great pagan field in that it is dominated by a single mighty hierarchy--the
mightiest known in history. For centuries priestcraft has had everything its own way all over
the continent, and is now at last yielding to outside pressure, but with desperate resistance."

"South America has been for nearly four hundred years part of the parish of the Pope. In contrast
with it the north of the New World-- Puritan, prosperous, powerful, progressive--presents probably
the most remarkable evidence earth affords of the blessings of Protestantism, while the results
of Roman Catholicism left to itself are writ large in letters of gloom across the priest-ridden,
lax and superstitious South. Her cities, among the gayest and grossest in the world, her ecclesiastics
enormously wealthy and strenuously opposed to progress and liberty, South America groans under
the tyranny of a priesthood which, in its highest forms, is unillumined by, and incompetent
to preach, the gospel of God's free gift; and in its lowest is proverbially and habitually
drunken, extortionate and ignorant. The fires of her unspeakable Inquisition still burn in
the hearts of her ruling clerics, and although the spirit of the age has in our nineteenth
century transformed all her monarchies into free Republics, religious intolerance all but universally
prevails." [Footnote: Guiness's "Romanism and Reformation."]

Prelates and priests, monks and nuns exert an influence that is all- pervading. William E.
Curtis, United States Commissioner to South America, wrote: "One-fourth of all the property
belongs to the bishop. There is a Catholic church for every 150 inhabitants. Ten per cent.
of the population are priests, monks or nuns, and 272 out of the 365 days of the year are observed
as fast or feast days. The priests control the government and rule the country as absolutely
as if the Pope were its king. As a result, 75 per cent. of the children born are illegitimate,
and the social and political condition presents a picture of the dark ages." It is said that,
in one town, every fourth person you meet is a priest or a nun, or an ecclesiastic of some sort.

Yet, with all this to battle against, the Christian missionary is making his influence felt.

La Razon, an important newspaper of Trujillo, in a recent issue says: "In homage to truth,
we make known with pleasure that the ministers of Protestantism have benefited this town more
in one year than all the priests and friars of the Papal sect have done in three centuries."

"Last year," writes Mr. Milne, of the American Bible Society, "one of our colporteurs in Ayacucho
had to make his escape by the roof of a house where he was staying, from a mob of half-castes,
led on by a friar. Finding their prey had escaped, they took his clothes and several boxes
of Bibles to the plaza of the city and burnt them."

It was not such a going-back as the outside world thought, but, oh, it was a deeply significant
one, when recently the leading men of the Republic of Guatemala met together and solemnly threw
over the religion of their fathers, which, during 400 years of practice, had failed to uplift,
and re-established the old paganism of cultured Rome. So serious was this step that the Palace
of Minerva, the goddess of trade, is engraved on the latest issue of Guatemalan postage stamps.
Believing that the few Protestants in the Republic are responsible for the reaction, the Archbishop
of Guatemala has promised to grant one hundred days' indulgence to those who will pray for
the overthrow of Protestantism in that country.

"Romanism is not Christianity," so the few Christian workers are fighting against tremendous
odds. What shall the harvest be?

PART I.

THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

The country to which the author first went as a self-supporting missionary in the year 1889.

THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

The Argentine Republic has an area of one and a quarter million square miles. It is 2,600 miles
from north to south, and 500 miles at its widest part. It is twelve times the size of Great
Britain. Although the population of the country is about seven millions, only one per cent,
of its cultivable area is now occupied, yet Argentina has an incomparable climate.

It is essentially a cattle country. She is said to surpass any other nation in her numbers
of live stock. The Bovril Co. alone kills 100,000 a year. On its broad plains there are estandas,
or cattle ranches, of fifty and one hundred thousand acres in extent, and on these cattle,
horses and sheep are herded in millions. Argentina has over twenty-nine million cattle, seventy-seven
million sheep, seven and a half million horses, five and a half million mules, a quarter- million
of donkeys, and nearly three million swine and three million goats. Four billion dollars of
British capital are invested in the country.

Argentina has sixteen thousand miles of railway. This has been comparatively cheap to build.
On the flat prairie lands the rails are laid, and there is a length of one hundred and seventy-five
miles without a single curve.

Three hundred and fifty thousand square miles of this prairie is specially adapted to the growing
of grain. In 1908-9 the yield of wheat was 4,920,000 tons. Argentina has exported over three
million tons of wheat, over three million tons of corn, and one million tons of linseed, in
one year, while "her flour mills can turn out 700,000 tons of flour a year." [Footnote: Hirst's
Argentina, 1910.]

"It is a delight often met with there to look on a field of twenty square miles, with the golden
ears standing even and close together, and not a weed nor a stump of a tree nor a stone as
big as a man's fist to be seen or found in the whole area."

"To plant and harvest this immense yield the tillers of the ground bought nine million dollars
of farm implements in 1908. Argentina's record in material progress rivals Japan's. Argentina
astonished the world by conducting, in 1906, a trade valued at five hundred and sixty million
dollars, buying and selling more in the markets of foreign nations than Japan, with a population
of forty millions, and China, with three hundred millions." [Footnote: John Barrett, in Munsey's
Magazine]

To this Land of Promise there is a large immigration. Nearly three hundred thousand have entered
in one single year. About two hundred thousand have been going to Buenos Ayres, the capital,
alone, but in 1908 nearly five hundred thousand landed there. [Footnote: "Despite the Government's
efforts, emigration from Spain to South America takes alarming proportions. In some districts
the men of the working classes have departed in a body. In certain villages in the neighborhood
of Cadiz there arc whole streets of deserted houses."- Spanish Press.] In Belgium 220 people
are crowded into the territory occupied by one person in Argentina, so yet there is room. Albert
Hale says: "It is undeniable that Argentina can give lodgment to 100,000,000 people, and can
furnish nourishment, at a remarkably cheap rate, for as many more, when her whole area is utilized."

Argentina's schools and universities are the best in the Spanish- speaking world. In Buenos
Ayres you will find some of the finest school buildings in the world, while 4,000 students
attend one university.

Buenos Ayres, founded in 1580, is to-day the largest city in the world south of the equator,
and is "one of the richest and most beautiful places of the world." The broad prairies around
the city have made the people "the richest on earth."

Kev. John F. Thompson, for forty-five years a resident of that country, summarizes its characteristics
in the following paragraph: "Argentina is a land of plenty; plenty of room and plenty of food.
If the actual population were divided into families of ten persons, each would have a farm
of eight square miles, with ten horses, fifty- four cows, and one hundred and eighty-six sheep,
and after they had eaten their fill of bread they would have half a ton of wheat and corn to
sell or send to the hungry nations."

CHAPTER I.

BUENOS AYRES IN 1889.

In the year 1889, after five weeks of ocean tossing, the steamer on which I was a passenger
anchored in the River Plate, off Buenos Ayres. Nothing but water and sky was to be seen, for
the coast was yet twenty miles away, but the river was too shallow for the steamer to get nearer.
Large tugboats came out to us, and passengers and baggage were transhipped into them, and we
steamed ten miles nearer the still invisible city. There smaller tugs awaited us and we were
again transhipped. Sailing once more toward the land, we soon caught sight of the Argentine
capital, but before we could sail nearer the tugs grounded. There we were crowded into flat-bottomed,
lug-sailed boats for a third stage of our landward journey. These boats conveyed us to within
a mile of the city, when carts, drawn by five horses, met us in the surf and drew us on to
the wet, shingly beach. There about twenty men stood, ready to carry the females on their backs
on to the dry, sandy shore, where was the customs house. The population of the city we then
entered was about six hundred thousand souls.

After changing the little gold I carried for the greasy paper currency of the country, I started
out in search of something to eat. Eventually I found myself before a substantial meal. At
a table in front of me sat a Scotsman from the same vessel. He had arrived before me (Scotsmen
say they are always before the Englishmen) and was devouring part of a leg of mutton. This,
he told me, he had procured, to the great amusement of Boniface, by going down on all fours
and baa-ing like the sheep of his native hills. Had he waited until I arrived he might have
feasted on lamb, for my voice was not so gruff as his. He had unconsciously asked for an old
sheep. I think the Highlander in that instance regretted that he had preceded the Englishman.

How shall I describe the metropolis of the Argentine, with its one- storied, flat-roofed houses,
each with grated windows and centre patio? Some of the poorer inhabitants raise fowls on the
roof, which gives the house a barnyard appearance, while the iron-barred windows below strongly
suggest a prison. Strange yet attractive dwellings they are, lime-washed in various colors,
the favorite shades seeming to be pink and bottle green. Fires are not used except for cooking
purposes, and the little smoke they give out is quickly dispersed by the breezes from the sixty-mile-wide
river on which the city stands.

The Buenos Ayres of 1889 was a strange place, with its long, narrow
streets, its peculiar stores and many-tongued inhabitants. There is
the dark-skinned policeman at the corner of each block sitting
silently on his horse, or galloping down the cobbled street at the
sound of some revolver, which generally tells of a life gone out.
Arriving on the scene he often finds the culprit flown. If he
succeeds in riding him down (an action he scruples not to do), he,
with great show, and at the sword's point, conducts him to the
nearest police station. Unfortunately he often chooses the quiet side
streets, where his prisoner may have a chance to buy his freedom. If
he pays a few dollars, the poor vigilante is perfectly willing to
lose him, after making sometimes the pretence of a struggle to blind
the lookers-on, if there be any curious enough to interest
themselves. This man in khaki is often "the terror of the innocent,
the laughing-stock of the guilty." The poor man or the foreign
sailor, if he stagger ever so little, is sure to be "run in." The
Argentine law-keeper (?) is provided with both sword and revolver,
but receives small remuneration, and as his salary is often tardily
paid him, he augments it in this way when he cannot see a good
opportunity of turning burglar or something worse on his own account.
When he is low in funds he will accost the stranger, begging a
 cigarette, or inviting himself at your expense to the nearest
cafe, as "the day is so unusually hot." After all, we must not
blame him too much--his superiors are far from guiltless, and he
knows it. When Minister Toso took charge of the Provincial portfolio
of Finance, he exclaimed, "C-o! Todos van robando menos yo!"
("Everybody is robbing here except I.") It is public news that
President Celman carried away to his private residence in the country
a most beautiful and expensive bronze fountain presented by the
inhabitants of the city to adorn the principal plaza. [Footnote:
Public square.] The president is elected by the people for a term of
three years, and invariably retires a rich man, however poor he may
have been when entering on his office. The laws of the country may be
described as model and Christian, but the carrying out of them is a
very different matter.

Some of the laws are excellent and worthy of our imitation, such as, for example, the one which
decrees that bachelors shall be taxed. Civil elections are held on Sundays, the voting places
being Roman Catholic churches.

Both postmen and telegraph boys deliver on horseback, but such is the lax custom that everything
will do to-morrow. That fatal word is the first the stranger learns--manana.

Comparatively few people walk the streets. "No city in the world of equal size and population
can compare with Buenos Ayres for the number and extent of its tramways." [Footnote: Turner's
"Argentina."] A writer in the Financial News says: "The proportion of the population who daily
use street-cars is sixty-six times greater in Buenos Ayres than in the United Kingdom."

This Modern Athens, as the Argentines love to term their city, has a beautiful climate. For
perhaps three hundred days out of every year there is a sky above as blue as was ever seen
in Naples.

The natives eat only twice a day--at 10.30 a.m., and at 7 p.m.--the common edibles costing
but little. I could write much of Buenos Ayres, with its carnicerias, where a leg of mutton
may be bought for 20 cts., or a brace of turkeys for 40 cts.; its almacenes, where one may
buy a pound of sugar or a yard of cotton, a measure of charcoal (coal is there unknown) or
a large sombrero, a package of tobacco (leaves over two feet long) or a pair of white hemp-soled
shoes for your feet--all at the same counter. The customer may further obtain a bottle of wine
or a bottle of beer (the latter costing four times the price of the former) from the same assistant,
who sells at different prices to different customers.

There the value of money is constantly changing, and almost every day prices vary. What to-day
costs $20 to-morrow may be $15, or, more likely, $30. Although one hundred and seventy tons
of sugar are annually grown in the country, that luxury is decidedly expensive. I have paid
from 12 cts. to 30 cts. a pound. Oatmeal, the Scotsman's dish, has cost me up to 50 cts. a pound.

Coming again on to the street you hear the deafening noises of the cow horns blown by the streetcar
drivers, or the pescador shrilly inviting housekeepers to buy the repulsive-looking red fish,
carried over his shoulder, slung on a thick bamboo. Perhaps you meet a beggar on horseback
(for there wishes are horses, and beggars do ride), who piteously whines for help. This steed-riding
fraternity all use invariably the same words: "Por el amor de Dios dame un centavo!" ("For
the love of God give me a cent.") If you bestow it, he will call on his patron saint to bless
you. If you fail to assist him, the curses of all the saints in heaven will fall on your impious
head. This often causes such a shudder in the recipient that I have known him to turn back
to appease the wrath of the mendicant, and receive instead--a blessing.

It is not an uncommon sight to see a black-robed priest with his hand on a boy's head giving
him a benediction that he may be enabled to sell his newspapers or lottery tickets with more
celerity.

The National Lottery is a great institution, and hundreds keep themselves poor buying tickets.
In one year the lottery has realized the sum of $3,409,143.57. The Government takes forty per
cent. of this, and divides the rest between a number of charitable and religious organizations,
all, needless to say, being Roman Catholic. Amongst the names appear the following: Poor Sisters
of St. Joseph, Workshop of Our Lady, Sisters of St. Anthony, etc.

Little booths for the sale of lottery tickets are erected in the vestibules of some of the
churches, and the Government, in this way, repays the church.

The gambling passion is one of Argentina's greatest curses. Tickets are bought by all, from
the Senator down to the newsboy who ventures his only dollar.

You meet the water-seller passing down the street with his barrel cart, drawn by three or four
horses with tinkling bells, dispensing water to customers at five cents a pail. The poorer
classes have no other means of procuring this precious liquid. The water is kept in a corner
of the house in large sun-baked jars. A peculiarity of these pots is that they are not made
to stand alone, but have to be held up by something.

At early morning and evening the milkman goes his rounds on horseback. The milk he carries
in six long, narrow cans, like inverted sugar-loaves, three on each side of his raw-hide saddle,
he himself being perched between them on a sheepskin. In some cans he carries pure cream, which
the jolting of his horse soon converts into butter. This he lifts out with his hands to any
who care to buy. After the addition of a little salt, and the subtraction of a little buttermilk,
this manteca is excellent. After serving you he will again mount his horse, but not until his
hands have been well wiped on its tail, which almost touches the ground. The other cans of
the lechero contain a mixture known to him alone. I never analyzed it, but have remarked a
chalky substance in the bottom of my glass. He does not profess to sell pure milk; that you
can buy, but, of course, at a higher price, from the pure milk seller. In the cool of the afternoon
he will bring round his cows, with bells on their necks and calves dragging behind. The calves
are tied to the mothers' tails, and wear a muzzle. At a sh-h from the sidewalk he stops them,
and, stooping down, fills your pitcher according to your money. The cows, through being born
and bred to a life in the streets, are generally miserable-looking beasts. Strange to add,
the one milkman shoes his cows and the other leaves his horse unshod. It is not customary in
this country for man's noble friend to wear more than his own natural hoof. A visit to the
blacksmith is entertaining. The smith, by means of a short lasso, deftly trips up the animal,
and, with its legs securely lashed, the cow must lie on its back while he shoes its upturned hoofs.

Many and varied are the scenes. One is struck by the number of horses, seven and eight often
being yoked to one cart, which even then they sometimes find difficult to draw. Some of the
streets are very bad, worse than our country lanes, and filled with deep ruts and drains, into
which the horses often fall. There the driver will sometimes cruelly leave them, when, after
his arm aches in using the whip, he finds the animal cannot rise. For the veriest trifle I
have known men to smash the poor dumb brute's eyes out with the stock of the whip, and I have
been very near the Police Station more than once when my righteous blood compelled me to interfere.
Where, oh, where is the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals? Surely no suffering
creatures under the sun cry out louder for mercy than those in Argentina?

As I have said, horses are left to die in the public streets. It has been my painful duty to
pass moaning creatures lying helplessly in the road, with broken limbs, under a burning sun,
suffering hunger and thirst, for three consecutive days, before kind death, the sufferer's
friend, released them. Looking on such sights, seeing every street urchin with coarse laugh
and brutal jest jump on such an animal's quivering body, stuff its parched mouth with mud,
or poke sticks into its staring eyes, I have cried aloud at the injustice. The policeman and
the passers-by have only laughed at me for my pains.

In my experiences in South America I found cruelty to be a marked feature of the people. If
the father thrusts his dagger into his enemy, and the mother, in her fits of rage, sticks her
hairpin into her maid's body, can it be wondered at if the children inherit cruel natures?
How often have I seen a poor horse fall between the shafts of some loaded cart of bricks or
sand! Never once have I seen his harness undone and willing hands help him up, as in other
civilized lands. No, the lashing of the cruel whip or the knife's point is his only help. If,
as some religious writers have said, the horse will be a sharer of Paradise along with man,
his master, then those from Buenos Ayres will feed in stalls of silver and have their wounds
healed by the clover of eternal kindness. "God is Love."

I have said the streets are full of holes. In justice to the authorities I must mention the
fact that sometimes, especially at the crossings, these are filled up. To carry truthfulness
still further, however, I must state that more than once I have known them bridged over with
the putrefying remains of a horse in the last stages of decomposition. I have seen delicate
ladies, attired in Parisian furbelows, lift their dainty skirts, attempt the crossing--and
sink in a mass of corruption, full of maggots.

In my description of Buenos Ayres I must not omit to mention the large square, black, open
hearses so often seen rapidly drawn through the streets, the driver seeming to travel as quickly
as he can. In the centre of the coach is the coffin, made of white wood and covered with black
material, fastened on with brass nails. Around this gruesome object sit the relatives and friends
of the departed one on their journey to the chacarita, or cemetery, some six miles out from
the centre of the city. Cemeteries in Spanish America are divided into three enclosures. There
is the "cemetery of heaven," "the cemetery of purgatory," and "the cemetery of hell." The location
of the soul in the future is thus seen to be dependent on its location by the priests here.
The dead are buried on the day of their death, when possible, or, if not, then early on the
following morning; but never, I believe, on feast days. Those periods are set apart for pleasure,
and on important saint days banners and flags of all nations are hung across the streets, or
adorn the roofs of the flat-topped houses, where the washing is at other times dried.

After attending mass in the early morning on these days, the people give themselves up to revelry
and sin at home, or crowd the street- cars running to the parks and suburbs. Many with departed
relatives (and who has none?) go to the chacarita, and for a few pesos bargain with the black-robed
priest waiting there, to deliver their precious dead out of Purgatory. If he sings the prayer
the cost is double, but supposed to be also doubly efficacious. Mothers do not always inspire
filial respect in their offspring, for one young man declared that he "wanted to get his mother
out of Purgatory before he went in."

A Buenos Ayres missionary writes "There are two large cemeteries here. From early morn until
late at night the people crowd into them, and I am told there were 100,000 at one time in one
of them. November 1 is a special day for releasing thousands of souls out of Purgatory. We
printed thousands of tracts and the workers started out to distribute them. By ten o'clock
six of them were in jail, having been given into custody by a 'holy father.' They were detained
until six in the evening without food, and then were released through the efforts of a Methodist
minister."

The catechisn reads: "Attend mass all Sundays and Feast days. Confess at least once a year,
or oftener, if there is any fear of death. Take Sacrament at Easter time. Pay a tenth of first-fruits
to God's Church." The fourth commandment is condensed into the words: "Sanctify the Feast days."
From this it will be seen that there is great need for mission work. Of course Romanism in
this and other cities is losing its old grip upon the people, and because of this the priest
is putting forth superhuman effort to retain what he has. La Voz de la Iglesia ("The Voice
of the Church"), the organ of the Bishop of Buenos Ayres, has lately published some of the
strongest articles we have ever read. A late article concludes: "One thing only, one thing:
OBEY; OBEY BLINDLY. Comply with her (the Church's) commands with faithful loyalty. If we do
this, it is impossible for Protestantism to invade the flowery camp of the Church, Holy, Catholic,
Apostolic and Roman."

Articles such as this, however, and the circulation of a tract by one of the leading church
presses, are not calculated to help forward a losing cause. The tract referred to is entitled,
"Letter of Jesus about the Drops of Blood which He shed whilst He went to Calvary." "You know
that the soldiers numbered 150, twenty-five of whom conducted me bound. I received fifty blows
on the head and 108 on the breast. I was pulled by the hair 23 times, and 30 persons spat in
my face. Those who struck me on the upper part of the body were 6,666, and 100 Jews struck
me on the head. I sighed 125 times. The wounds on the head numbered 20; from the crown of thorns,
72; points of thorns on the forehead, 100. The wounds on the body were 100. There came out
of my body 28,430 drops of blood." This letter, the tract states, was found in the Holy Sepulchre
and is preserved by his holiness the Pope. Intelligent, thinking men can only smile at such
an utter absurdity.

An "Echoes from Argentina" extract reads: "Not many months ago, Argentina was blessed by the
Pope. Note what has happened since:--The Archbishop, who was the bearer of the blessing and
brought it from Rome, has since died very suddenly; we have had a terrible visitation of heat
suffocation, hundreds being attacked and very many dying; we have had the bubonic pest in our
midst; a bloody provincial revolution in Entre Rios; and now at the time of writing there is
an outbreak of a serious cattle disease, and England has closed her ports against Argentine
live stock. Of course, we do not say that these calamities are the result of the Pope's blessing,
but we would that Catholics would open their eyes and see that it is a fact that whereas Protestant
countries, anathematized by the Pope, prosper, Catholic countries which have been blessed by
him are in a lamentable condition."

BUENOS AYRES AT THE PRESENT TIME.

Perhaps no city of the world has grown and progressed more during this last decade than the
city of Buenos Ayres. To-day passengers land in the centre of the city and step on "the most
expensive system of artificial docks in all America, representing an expenditure of seventy
million dollars."

To this city there is a large emigration. It has grown at the rate of 4,000 adults a week,
with a birthrate of 1,000 a week added. The population is now fast climbing up to 1 1-2 millions
of inhabitants. There are 300,000 Italians, 100,000 Spaniards, a colony of 20,000 Britishers,
and, of course, Jews and other foreigners in proportion. "Buenos Ayres is one of the most cosmopolitan
cities of the world. There are 189 newspapers, printed in almost every language of the globe.
Probably the only Syrian newspaper in America, The Assudk, is issued in this city." To keep
pace with the rush of newcomers has necessitated the building of 30,000 houses every year.
There is here "the finest and costliest structure ever built, used exclusively by one newspaper,
the home of La Prensa; the most magnificent opera house of the western hemisphere, erected
by the government at the cost of ten million dollars; one of the largest banks in the world,
and the handsomest and largest clubhouse in the world." [Footnote: John Barrett, In Munsey's
Magazine.] The entrance fee to this club is $1,500. The Y.M.C.A. is now erecting a commodious
building, for which $200,000 has already been raised, and there is a Y.W.C.A., with a membership
of five hundred. Dr. Clark, in "The Continent of Opportunity," says, "More millionaires live
in Buenos Ayres than in any other city of the world of its size. The proportion of well- clothed,
well-fed people is greater than in American cities, the slums are smaller, and the submerged
classes less in proportion. The constant movement of carriages and automobiles here quite surpasses
that of Fifth Avenue." The street cars are of the latest and most improved electric types,
equal to any seen in New York or London, and seat one hundred people, inside and out. Besides
these there is an excellent service of motor cabs, and tubes are being commenced. Level crossings
for the steam roads are not permitted in the city limits, so all trains run over or under the
streets.

"The Post Office handles 40,000,000 pieces of mail and 125,000 parcel post packages a month.
The city has 1,209 automobiles, 27 theatres and 50 moving picture shows. Five thousand vessels
enter the port of Buenos Ayres every year, and the export of meat in 1910 was valued at $31,000,000.
No other section of the world shows such growth." [Footnote: C. H. Furlong, in The World's Work.]

The city, once so unhealthy, is now, through proper drainage, "the second healthiest large
city of the world." The streets, as I first saw them, were roughly cobbled, now they are asphalt
paved, and made into beautiful avenues, such as would grace any capital of the world. Avenida
de Mayo, cut right through the old city, is famed as being one of the most costly and beautiful
avenues of the world.

On those streets the equestrian milkman is no longer seen. Beautiful sanitary white-tiled tambos,
where pure milk and butter are sold, have taken his place. The old has been transformed and
PROGRESS is written everywhere.

CHAPTER II.

REVOLUTION.

South America, of all lands, has been most torn asunder by war. Revolutions may be numbered
by hundreds, and the slaughter has been incredible. Even since the opening of the year 1900,
thirty thousand Colombians have been slain and there have been dozens of revolutions. Darwin
relates the fact that in 1832 Argentina underwent fifteen changes of government in nine months,
owing to internal strife, and since then Argentina has had its full share.

During my residence in Buenos Ayres there occurred one of those disastrous revolutions which
have from time to time shaken the whole Republic. The President, Don Juarez Celman, had long
been unpopular, and, the mass of the people being against him, as well as nearly half of the
standing army, and all the fleet then anchored in the river, the time was considered ripe to
strike a blow.

On the morning of July 26, 1890, the sun rose upon thousands of stern-looking men bivouacking
in the streets and public squares of the city. The revolution had commenced, and was led by
one of the most distinguished Argentine citizens, General Joseph Mary Campos. The battle-cry
of these men was "Sangre! Sangre!" [Footnote: "Blood! Blood!"] The war fiend stalked forth.
Trenches were dug in the streets. Guns were placed at every point of vantage. Men mounted their
steeds with a careless laugh, while the rising sun shone on their burnished arms, so soon to
be stained with blood. Battalions of men marched up and down the streets to the sound of martial
music, and the low, flat-roofed housetops were quickly filled with sharpshooters.

The Government House and residence of the President was guarded in all directions by the 2nd
Battalion of the Line, the firemen and a detachment of police, but on the river side were four
gunboats of the revolutionary party.

The average South American is a man of quick impulses and little thought. The first shot fired
by the Government troops was the signal for a fusilade that literally shook the city. Rifle
shots cracked, big guns roared, and shells screaming overhead descended in all directions,
carrying death and destruction. Street-cars, wagons and cabs were overturned to form barricades.
In the narrow, straight streets the carnage was fearful, and blood soon trickled down the watercourses
and dyed the pavements. That morning the sun had risen for the last time upon six hundred strong
men; it set upon their mangled remains. Six hundred souls! The Argentine soldier knows little
of the science of "hide and seek" warfare. When he goes forth to battle, it is to fight--or
die. Of the future life he unfortunately thinks little, and of Christ, the world's Redeemer,
he seldom or never hears. The Roman Catholic chaplain mumbles a few Latin prayers to them at
times, but as the knowledge of these resos does not seem to improve the priest's life, the
men prefer to remain in ignorance.

The average Argentine soldier is a man of little intelligence. The regiments are composed of
Patagonian Indians or semi-civilized Guaranis, mixed with all classes of criminals from the
state prisons. Nature has imprinted upon them the unmistakable marks of the savage-- sullen,
stupid ferocity, indifference to pain, bestial instincts. As for his fighting qualities, they
more resemble those of the tiger than of the cool, brave and trained soldier. When his blood
is roused, fighting is with him a matter of blind and indiscriminate carnage of friend or foe.
A more villainous-looking horde it would be difficult to find in any army. The splendid accoutrements
of the generals and superior officers, and the glittering equipments of their chargers, offer
a vivid contrast to the mean and dirty uniforms of the troops.

During the day the whole territory of the Republic was declared to be in a state of siege.
Business was at a complete standstill. The stores were all closed, and many of them fortified
with the first means that came to hand. Mattresses, doors, furniture, everything was requisitioned,
and the greatest excitement prevailed in commercial circles generally. All the gun-makers'
shops had soon been cleared of their contents, which were in the hands of the adherents of
the revolution.

That evening the news of the insurrection was flashed by "Reuter's" to all parts of the civilized
world. The following appeared in one of the largest British dailies:

"BUENOS AYRES, July 27, 5.40 p.m.

"The fighting in the streets between the Government troops and the insurgents has been of the
most desperate character.

"The forces of the Government have been defeated.

"The losses in killed and wounded are estimated at 1,000.

"The fleet is in favor of the Revolutionists.

"Government house and the barracks occupied by the Government troops have been bombarded by
the insurgent artillery."

That night as I went in and out of the squads of men on the revolutionary side, seeking to
do some acts of mercy, I saw many strange and awful sights. There were wounded men who refused
to leave the field, although the rain poured. Others were employed in cooking or ravenously
eating the dead horses which strewed the streets. Some were lying down to drink the water flowing
in the gutters, which water was often tinged with human blood, for the rain was by this time
washing away many of the dark spots in the streets. Others lay coiled up in heaps under their
soaking ponchos, trying to sleep a little, their arms stacked close at hand. There were men
to all appearances fast asleep, standing with their arms in the reins of the horses which had
borne them safely through the leaden hail of that day of terror. Numerous were the jokes and
loud was the coarse laughter of many who next day would be lying stiff in death, but little
thought seemed to be expended on that possibility.

Men looted the stores and feasted, or wantonly destroyed valuables they had no use for. None
stopped this havoc, for the officers were quartered in the adjacent houses, themselves holding
high revelry. Lawless hordes visited the police offices, threw their furniture into the streets,
tore to shreds all the books, papers and records found, and created general havoc. They gorged
and cursed, using swords for knives, and lay down in the soaking streets or leaned against
the guns to smoke the inevitable cigarillo. A few looked up at the gilded keys of St. Peter
adorning the front of the cathedral, perhaps wondering if they would be used to admit them
to a better world.

Next day, as I sallied forth to the dismal duty of caring for the dead and dying, the guns
of the Argentine fleet [Footnote: British- built vessels of the latest and most approved types.]
in the river opposite the city blazed forth upon the quarter held by the Government's loyal
troops. One hundred and fifty-four shots were fired, two of the largest gunboats firing three-hundred
and six- hundred pounders. Soon every square was a shambles, and the mud oozed with blood.
The Buenos Ayres Standard, describing that day of fierce warfare, stated:

"At dawn, the National troops, quartered in the Plaza Libertad, made another desperate attack
on the Revolutionary positions in the Plaza Lavalle. The Krupp guns, mitrailleuses and gatlings
went off at a terrible rate, and volleys succeeded each other, second for second, from five
in the morning till half-past nine. The work of death was fearful, and hundreds of spectators
were shot down as they watched from their balconies or housetops. Cannon balls riddled all
the houses near the Cinco Esquinas. In the attack on the Plaza Lavalle, three hundred men must
have fallen."

"At ten a.m. the white flag of truce was hoisted on both sides, and the dismal work of collecting
the dead and wounded began. The ambulances of the Asistencia Publica, the cars of the tram
companies and the wagons of the Red Cross were busily engaged all day in carrying away the
dead. It is estimated that in the Plaza Lavalle above 600 men were wounded and 300 killed.
Considering that the Revolutionists defended an entrenched position, whilst the National troops
attacked, we may imagine that the losses of the latter were enormous."

"General Lavalle, commander-in-chief of the National forces, gave orders for a large number
of coffins, which were not delivered, as the undertaker wished to be paid cash. It is to be
supposed that these coffins were for the dead officers."

"When the white flags were run up, Dr. Del Valle, Senator of the Nation, sent, in the name
of the Revolutionary Committee, an ultimatum to the National Government, demanding the immediate
dismissal of the President of the Republic and dissolution of Congress. Later on it was known
that both parties had agreed on an armistice, to last till mid-day on Monday."

Of the third day's sanguinary fighting, the Standard wrote:

"The Plaza Libertad was taken by General Lavalle at the head of the National troops under the
most terrible fire, but the regiments held well together and carried the position in a most
gallant manner, confirming the reputation of indomitable valor that the Argentine troops won
at the trenches of Curupayti. Our readers may imagine the fire they suffered in the straight
streets swept by Krupp guns, gatlings and mitrailleuses, while every housetop was a fortress
whence a deadly fire was poured on the heads of the soldiers. Let anybody take the trouble
to visit the Calles [Footnote: Streets] Cerrito, Libertad and Talcahuano, the vicinity of the
Plazas Parque and Lavalle, and he will be staggered to see how all the houses have been riddled
by mitrailleuses and rifle bullets. The passage of cannon balls is marked on the iron frames
of windows, smashed frames and demolished balconies of the houses.

"The Miro Palace, in the Plaza Parque, is a sorry picture of wreckage: the 'mirador' is knocked
to pieces by balls and shells; the walls are riddled on every side, and nearly all the beautiful
Italian balconies and buttresses have been demolished. The firing around the palace must have
been fearful, to judge by the utter ruin about, and all the telephone wires dangling over the
street in meshes from every house. Ruin and wreckage everywhere.

"By this time the hospitals of the city, the churches and public buildings were filled with
the wounded and dying, borne there on stretchers made often of splintered and shattered doors.
Nearly a hundred men were taken into the San Francisco convent alone." Yet with all this the
lust for blood was not quenched. It could still be written of the fourth day:

"At about half-past two, a sharp attack was made by the Government troops on the Plaza Parque,
and a fearful fire was kept up. Hundreds and hundreds fell on both sides, but the Government
troops were finally repulsed. People standing at the corners of the streets cheering for the
Revolutionists were fired on and many were killed. Bodies of Government troops were stationed
at the corners of the streets leading to the Plaza, Large bales of hay had been heaped up to
protect them from the deadly fire of the Revolutionists.

"It was at times difficult to remember that heavy slaughter was going on around. In many parts
of the city people were chatting, joking and laughing at their doors. The attitude of the foreign
population was more serious; they seemed to foresee the heavy responsibilities of the position
and to accurately forecast the result of the insurrection.

"The bulletins of the various newspapers during the revolution were purchased by the thousand
and perused with the utmost avidity; fancy prices were often paid for them. The Sunday edition
of The Standard was sold by enterprising newsboys in the suburbs as high as $3.00 per copy,
whilst fifty cents was the regulation price for a momentary peep at our first column."

Towards the close of that memorable 29th of July the hail of bullets ceased, but the insurgent
fleet still kept up its destructive bombardment of the Government houses for four hours.

The Revolutionists were defeated, or, as was seriously affirmed, had been sold for the sum
of one million Argentine dollars.

"Estamos vendidos!" "Estamos vendidos!" (We are sold! We are sold!) was heard on every hand.
Because of this surrender officers broke their swords and men threw away their rifles as they
wept with rage. A sergeant exclaimed: "And for this they called us out--to surrender without
a struggle! Cowards! Poltroons!" And then with a stern glance around he placed his rifle to
his breast and shot himself through the heart. After the cessation of hostilities both sides
collected their dead, and the wounded were placed under the care of surgeons, civil as well
as military.

Notwithstanding the fact that the insurgents were said to be defeated, the President, Dr. Celman,
fled from the city, and the amusing spectacle was seen of men and youths patrolling the streets
wearing cards in their hats which read: "Ya se fue el burro" (At last the donkey has gone).
A more serious sight, however, was when the effigy of the fleeing President was crucified.

Thus ended the insurrection of 1890, a rising which sent three thousand brave men into eternity.

What changes had taken place in four short days! At the Plaza Libertad the wreckage was most
complete. The beautiful partierres were trodden down by horses; the trees had been partially
cut down for fuel; pools of blood, remnants of slaughtered animals, offal, refuse everywhere.

Since the glorious days of the British invasion--glorious from an Argentine point of view--Buenos
Ayres had never seen its streets turned into barricades and its housetops into fortresses.
In times of electoral excitement we had seen electors attack each other in bands many years,
but never was organized warfare carried on as during this revolution. The Plaza Parque was
occupied by four or five thousand Revolutionary troops; all access to the Plaza was defended
by armed groups on the house-tops and barricades in the streets, Krupp guns and that most infernal
of modern inventions, the mitrailleuse, swept all the streets, north, south, east and west.
The deadly grape swept the streets down to the very river, and not twenty thousand men could
have taken the Revolutionary position by storm, except by gutting the houses and piercing the
blocks, as Colonel Garmendia proposed, to avoid the awful loss of life suffered in the taking
of the Plaza Libertad on Saturday morning.

At the close of the revolution the great city found itself suffering from a quasi-famine. High
prices were asked for everything. In some districts provisions could not be obtained even at
famine prices. The writer for the first time in his life had to go here and there to beg a
loaf of bread for his family's needs.

A reporter of the Argentine News, July 31st of that same year, wrote:

"There is a revolution going on in Rosario. It began on Saturday, when the Revolutionists surprised
the Government party, and by one on Sunday most of the Government buildings were in their hands.
It is now eight in the morning and the firing is terrible. Volunteers are coming into the town
from all parts, so the rebels are bound to win the stronghold shortly. News has just come that
the Government troops have surrendered. Four p.m.--I have been out to see the dead and wounded
gathered up by the ambulance wagons. I should think the dead are less than a hundred, and the
wounded about four times that number. The surprise was so sudden that the victory has been
easy and with little loss of life. The Revolutionists are behaving well and not destroying
property as they might have done. The whole town is rejoicing; flags of all nations are flying
everywhere. The saddest thing about the affair is that some fifty murderers have escaped from
the prison. I saw many of them running away when I got upon the spot. The order has been given
to recapture them. I trust they may be caught, for we have too many of that class at liberty
already. * * * * It is estimated that over 100,000 rounds of ammunition were fired in the two
days. * * * The insurgents fed on horse-meat and beef, the former being obtained by killing
the horses belonging to the police, the latter from the various dairies, from which the cows
were seized."

In 1911 the two largest Dreadnoughts of the world, the Rivadavia and the Moreno, were launched
for the Argentine Government. These two battleships are half as powerful again as the largest
British Dreadnought.

CHAPTER III.

THE CRIOLLO VILLAGE.

The different centres of trade and commerce in the Argentine can easily be reached by train
or river steamer. Rosario, with its 140,000 inhabitants, in the north; Bahia Blanca, where
there is the largest wheat elevator in the world, in the south, and Mendoza, at the foot of
the Andes, several times destroyed by earthquake, five hundred miles west--all these are more
or less like the capital.

To arrive at an isolated village of the interior the traveller must be content to ride, as
I did, on horseback, or be willing to jolt along for weeks in a wagon without springs. These
carts are drawn by eight, ten, or more bullocks, as the weight warrants, and are provided with
two very strong wheels, without tires, and often standing eight and ten feet high. The patient
animals, by means of a yoke fastened to their horns with raw-hide, draw these carts through
long prairie grass or sinking morass, through swollen rivers or oozing mud, over which malaria
hangs in visible forms.

The voyager must be prepared to suffer a little hunger and thirst on the way. He must sleep
amongst the baggage in the cart, or on the broader bed of the ground, where snakes and tarantulas
creep and the heavy dew saturates one through and through.

As is well known, the bullock is a slow animal, and these never travel more than two or three
miles an hour.

Time with the native is no object. The words, "With patience we win heaven," are ever on his lips.

The Argentine countryman is decidedly lazy.

Darwin relates that he asked two men the question: "Why don't you work?" One said: "The days
are too long!" Another answered: "I am too poor."

With these people nothing can succeed unless it is begun when the moon is on the increase.
The result is that little is accomplished.

You cannot make the driver understand your haste, and the bullocks understand and care still less.

The mosquitoes do their best to eat you up alive, unless your body has already had all the
blood sucked out of it, a humiliating, painful and disfiguring process. You must carry with
you sufficient food for the journey, or it may happen that, like me, you are only able to shoot
a small ring dove, and with its entrails fish out of the muddy stream a monster turtle for
the evening meal.

If, on the other hand, you pass a solitary house, they will with pleasure give you a sheep.
If you killed one without permission your punishment would perhaps be greater than if you had
killed a man.

If a bullock becomes ill on the road, the driver will, with his knife, cut all around the sod
where the animal has left its footprint. Lifting this out, he will cut a cross on it and replace
it the other side uppermost. This cure is most implicitly believed in and practised.

The making of the cross is supposed to do great wonders, which your guide is never tired of
recounting while he drinks his mate in the unbroken stillness of the evening. Alas! the many
bleaching bones on the road testify that this, and a hundred other such remedies, are not always
effectual, but the mind of the native is so full of superstitious faith that the testimony
of his own eyes will not convince him of the absurdity of his belief. As he stoops over the
fire you will notice on his breast some trinket or relic--anything will do if blessed by the
priest--and that, he assures you, will save him from every unknown and unseen danger in his
land voyage. The priest has said it, and he rests satisfied that no lightning stroke will fell
him, no lurking panther pounce upon him, nor will he die of thirst or any other evil. I have
remarked men of the most cruel, cutthroat description wearing these treasures with zealous
care, especially one, of whom it was said that he had killed two wives.

When your driver is young and amorously inclined you will notice that he never starts for the
regions beyond without first providing himself with an owl's skin. This tied on his breast,
he tells you, will ensure him favor in the eyes of the females he may meet on the road, and
on arrival at his destination.

I once witnessed what at first sight appeared to be a heavy fall of snow coming up with the
wind from the south. Strange to relate, this phenomenon turned out to be millions of white
butterflies of large size. Some of these, when measured, I found to be four and five inches
across the wings. Darwin relates his having, in 1832, seen the same sight, when his men exclaimed
that it was "snowing butterflies."

The inhabitants of these trackless wilds are very, very few, but in all directions I saw numbers
of ostriches, which run at the least sign of man, their enemy. The fastest horse could not
outstrip this bird as with wings outstretched he speeds before the hunter. As Job, perhaps
the oldest historian of the world, truly says: "What time she lifteth herself up on high, she
scorneth the horse and his rider." The male bird joins his spouse in hatching the eggs, sitting
on them perhaps longer turns than the female, but the weather is so hot that little brooding
is required. I have had them on the shelf of my cupboard for a week, when the little ones have
forced their way out Forty days is the time of incubation, so, naturally, those must have been
already sat on for thirty-three days. With open wings these giant birds often manage to cover
from twenty-five to forty-five eggs, although, I think, they seldom bring out more than twenty.
The rest they roll out of the nest, where, soon rotting, they breed innumerable insects, and
provide tender food for the coming young. The latter, on arrival, are always reared by the
male ostrich, who, not being a model husband, ignominiously drives away the partner of his
joys. It might seem that he has some reason for doing this, for the old historian before referred
to says: "She is hardened against her young ones as though they were not hers."

As the longest road leads somewhere, the glare of the whitewashed church at last meets your
longing gaze on the far horizon. The village churches are always whitewashed, and an old man
is frequently employed to strike the hours on the tower bell by guess.

I was much struck by the sameness of the many different interior towns and villages I visited.
Each wore the same aspect of indolent repose, and each was built in exact imitation of the
other. Each town possesses its plaza, where palms and other semi-tropical plants wave their
leaves and send out their perfume.

From the principal city to the meanest village, the streets all bear the same names. In every
town you may find a Holy Faith street, a St. John street and a Holy Ghost street, and these
streets are shaded by orange, lemon, pomegranate, fig and other trees, the fruit of which is
free to all who choose to gather. All streets are in all parts in a most disgraceful condition,
and at night beneath the heavy foliage of the trees Egyptian darkness reigns. Except in daylight,
it is difficult to walk those wretched roads, where a goat often finds progress a difficulty.
Rotten fruit, branches of trees, ashes, etc., all go on the streets. A hole is often bridged
over by a putrefying animal, over which run half-naked urchins, pelting each other with oranges
or lemons--common as stones. When the highways are left in such a state, is it to be wondered
at that, while standing on my own door-step, I have been able to count eleven houses where
smallpox was doing its deadly work, all within a radius of one hundred yards?

Even in the city of La Plata, the second of importance in Argentina, I once had the misfortune
to fall into an open drain while passing down one of the principal streets. The night was intensely
dark, and yet there was no light left there to warn either pedestrian or vehicle-driver, and
this sewer was seven feet deep.

Simple rusticity and ignorance are the chief characteristics of the country people. They used
to follow and stare at me as though I were a visitor from Mars or some other planet. When I
spoke to them in their language they were delighted, and respectfully hung on my words with
bared heads. When, however, I told them of electric cars and underground railways, they turned
away in incredulity, thinking that such marvels as these could not possibly be.

Old World towns they seem to be. The houses are built of sun-baked mud bricks, kneaded by mares
that splash and trample through the oozy substance for hours to mix it well. The poorer people
build ranches of long, slender canes or Indian cornstalks tied together by grass and coated
with mud. These are all erected around and about the most imposing edifice in the place--the
whitewashed adobe church.

All houses are hollow squares. The patio, with its well, is inside this enclosure. Each house
is lime-washed in various colors, and all are flat-roofed and provided with grated windows,
giving them a prison-like appearance. The window-panes are sometimes made of mica. Over the
front doors of some of the better houses are pictures of the Virgin. The nurse's house is designated
by having over the doorway a signboard, on which is painted a full-blooming rose, out of the
petals of which is peeping a little babe.

If you wish to enter a house, you do not knock at the door (an act that would be considered
great rudeness), but clap your hands, and you are most courteously invited to enter. The good
woman at once sets to work to serve you with mate, and quickly rolls a cigar, which she hands
to you from her mouth, where she has already lighted it by a live ember of charcoal taken from
the fire with a spoon. Matches can be bought, but they cost about ten cents a hundred. If you
tell the housewife you do not smoke she will stare at you in gaping wonder. Their children
use the weed, and I have seen a mother urge her three-year-old boy to whiff at a cigarette.

Bound each dwelling is a ramada, where grapes in their season hang in luxuriant clusters; and
each has its own garden, where palms, peaches, figs, oranges, limes, sweet potatoes, tobacco,
nuts, garlic, etc., grow luxuriantly. The garden is surrounded by a hedge of cacti or other
kindred plants. The prickly pear tree of that family is one of the strangest I have seen. On
the leaves, which are an inch or more in thickness, grows the fruit, and I have counted as
many as thirteen pears growing on a single leaf. When ripe they are a deep red color, and very
sweet to the taste. The skin is thick, and covered with innumerable minute prickles. It is,
I believe, a most refreshing and healthful food.

Meat is very cheap. A fine leg of mutton may be bought for the equivalent of twelve cents,
and good beef at four cents a pound. Their favorite wine, Lagrimas de San Juan (Tears of Holy
John), can be bought for ten cents a quart.

All cooking is done on braziers--a species of three-legged iron bucket in which the charcoal
fire is kindled. On this the little kettle, filled from the well in the patio, is boiled for
the inevitable mate. About this herb I picked up, from various sources, some interesting information.
The mate plant grows chiefly In Paraguay, and is sent down the river in bags made of hides.
From the village of Tacurti Pucu in that country comes a strange account of the origin of the
yerba mate plant, which runs thus: "God, accompanied by St. John and St. Peter, came down to
the earth and commenced to journey. One day, after most difficult travel, they arrived at the
house of an old man, father to a virgin young and beautiful. The old man cared so much for
this girl, and was so anxious to keep her ever pure and innocent, that they had gone to live
in the depths of a forest. The man was very, very poor, but willingly gave his heavenly visitors
the best he could, killing in their honor the only hen he possessed, which served for supper.
Noting this action, God asked St. Peter and St. John, when they were alone, what they would
do if they were Him. They both answered Him that they would largely reward such an unselfish
host. Bringing him to their presence, God addressed him in these words: 'Thou who art poor
hast been generous, and I will reward thee for it. Thou hast a daughter who is pure and innocent,
and whom thou greatly lovest. I will make her immortal, and she shall never disappear from
earth.' Then God transformed her into the plant of the yerba mate. Since then the herb exists,
and although it is cut down it springs up again." Other stories run that the maiden still lives;
for God, instead of turning her into the mate plant, made her mistress of it, and she lives
to help all those who make a compact with her, Many men during "Holy week," if near a town,
visit the churches of Paraguay and formally promise to dedicate themselves to her worship,
to live in the woods and have no other woman. After this vow they go to the forest, taking
a paper on which the priest has written their name. This they pin with a thorn on the mate
plant, and leave it for her to read. Thus she secures her devotees.

Roman Catholicism is not "Semper Idem," but adapts itself to its surroundings.

Mate is drunk by all, from the babe to the centenarian; by the rich cattle-owner, who drinks
it from a chased silver cup through a golden bombilla, to his servant, who is content with
a small gourd, which everywhere grows wild, and a tin tube. Tea, as we know it, is only to
be bought at the chemist's as a remedy for nerves. In other countries it is said to be bad
for nerves.

Each house possesses its private altar, where the saints are kept. That sacred spot is veiled
off when possible--if only by hanging in front of it a cow's hide--from the rest of the dwelling.
It consists, according to the wealth or piety of the housewife, in expensive crosses, beads,
and pictures of saints decked out with costly care; or, it may be, but one soiled lithograph
surrounded by paper flowers or cheap baubles of the poorer classes; but all are alike sacred.
Everything of value or beauty is collected and put as an offering to these deities--pieces
of colored paper, birds' eggs, a rosy tomato or pomegranate, or any colored picture or bright
tin. Descending from the ridiculous to the gruesome, I have known a mother scrape and clean
the bones of her dead daughter in order that they might be given a place on the altar. Round
this venerated spot the goodwife, with her palm-leaf broom, sweeps with assiduous care, and
afterwards carefully dusts her crucifix and other devotional objects with her brush of ostrich
feathers. Here she kneels in prayer to the different saints. God Himself is never invoked.
Saint Anthony interests himself in finding her lost ring, and Saint Roque is a wonderful physician
in case of sickness. If she be a maiden Saint Carmen will find her a suitable husband; if a
widow, Saint John will be a husband to her; and if an orphan, the sacred heart of the Virgin
of Carmen gives balsam to the forlorn one. Saint Joseph protects the artisan, and if a candle
is burnt in front of Saint Ramon, he will most obligingly turn away the tempest or the lightning
stroke. In all cases one candle at least must be promised these mysterious benefactors, and
rash indeed would be the man or woman who failed to burn the candle; some most terrible vengeance
would surely overtake him or his family.

God, as I have said, is never invoked. Perhaps He is supposed to sit in solitary grandeur while
the saints administer His affairs? These latter are innumerable, and whatever may be their
position in the minds of Romanists in other lands, in South America they are distinct and separate
gods, and their graven image, picture or carving is worshipped as such.

When religious questions have not arisen, life in those remote villages has passed very pleasantly.
The people live in great simplicity, knowing scarcely anything of the outside world and its
progress.

At the Feast of St. John the women take sheep and lambs, gaily decorated with colored ribbons,
to church with them. That is an act of worship, for the priest puts his hand on each lamb and
blesses it.

Carnival is a joyous time, and if for only once in the year the quiet town then resounds with
mirth. Pails of water are carried up to the flat roofs of the houses, and each unwary pedestrian
is in turn deluged. At other times flour is substituted, and on the last day of the feast ashes
are thrown on all sides. At other seasons of the year the streets are quiet, and after the
rural pursuits of the day are over, the guitar is brought out, and the evening breeze wafts
waves of music to each listening ear. The guitar is in all South America what the bag-pipes
are to Scotland-the national musical instrument of the people. The Criollo plays mostly plaintive,
broken airs--now so low as to be almost inaudible, then high and shrill. Here and there he
accompanies the music with snatches of song, telling of an exploit or describing the dark eyes
of some lovely maiden. The airs strike one as being very strange, and decidedly unlike the
rolling songs of British music.

In those interior towns a very quiet life may be passed, far away from the whistle of the railway
engine. Everything is simplicity itself, and it might almost be said of some that time itself
seems at a standstill. During the heat of the day the streets are entirely deserted; shops
are closed, and all the world is asleep, for that is the siesta time. "They eat their dinners
and go to sleep--and could they do better?"

After this the barber draws his chair out to the causeway and shaves or cuts his customer's
hair. Women and children sit at their doors drinking mate and watching the slowly drawn bullock-carts
go up and down the uneven, unmade roads, bordered, not by the familiar maple, but with huge
dust-covered cactus plants, The bullocks all draw with their horns, and the indolent driver
sits on the yoke, urging forward his sleepy animals with a poke of his cane, on the end of
which he has fastened a sharp nail. The buey is very thick-skinned and would not heed a whip.
The wheels of the cart are often cut from a solid piece of wood, and are fastened on with great
hardwood pins in a most primitive style. Soon after sunset all retire to their trestle beds.

In early morning the women hurry to mass. The Criollo does not break his fast until nearly
mid-day, so they have no early meal to prepare. Even before it is quite light it is difficult
to pass along the streets owing to the custom they have of carrying their praying- chairs with
them to mass. The rich lady will be followed by her dark- skinned maid bearing a sumptuously
upholstered chair on her head. The middle classes carry their own, and the very poor take with
them a palm-leaf mat of their own manufacture. When mass is over religion is over for the day.
After service they make their way down to the river or pond, carrying on their heads the soiled
linen. Standing waist- high in the water, they wash out the stains with black soap of their
own manufacture, beating each article with hardwood boards made somewhat like a cricketer's
bat. The cloths are then laid on the sand or stones of the shore. The women gossip and smoke
until these are dry and ready to carry home again ere the heat becomes too intense.

In a description of Argentine village life, I could not possibly omit the priest, the "all
in all" to the native, the temporal and spiritual king, who bears in his hands the destinies
of the living and the dead. These men are the potentates of the people, who refer everything
to them, from the most trivial matter to the weightier one of the saving of their souls after
death. Bigotry and superstition are extreme.

Renous, the naturalist, tells us that he visited one of these towns and left some caterpillars
with a girl. These she was to feed until his return, that they might change to butterflies.
When this was rumored through the village, priest and governor consulted together and agreed
that it must be black heresy. When poor Renous returned some time afterwards he was arrested.

The Argentine village priest is a dangerous enemy to the Protestant. Many is the time he has
insulted me to my face, or, more cowardly, charged the school-boys to pelt and annoy me. In
the larger towns the priest has defamed me through the press, and when I have answered him
also by that means, he has heaped insult upon injury, excluded me from society, and made me
a pariah and a byword to the superstitious people. I have been stoned and spat upon, hurled
to the ground, had half-wild dogs set on me, and my horse frightened that he might throw me.
I have been refused police help, or been called to the office to give an account of myself,
all because I was a Protestant, or infidel, as they prefer to term it. At those times great
patience was needed, for at the least sign of resistance on my part I should have been attacked
by the whole village in one mass. The policeman on the street has looked expectantly on, eager
to see me do this, and on one occasion he escorted me to the station for snatching a bottle
from the hand of a boy who was in the act of throwing it at my head. Arriving there I was most
severely reprimanded, although, fortunately, not imprisoned.

Women have crossed themselves and run from me in terror to seek the holy water bottle blessed
by the father. Doors have been shut in my face, and angry voices bade me begone, at the instigation
of this black-robed believer in the Virgin. Congregations of worshippers in the dark-aisled
church have listened to a fabulous description of my mission and character, until the barber
would not cut my hair or the butcher sell me his meat! Many a mother has hurriedly called her
children in and precipitately shut the door, that my shadow in passing might not enter and
pollute her home. Perhaps a senorita, more venturesome, with her black hair hanging in two
long plaits behind each shoulder, has run to her iron-barred window to smile at me, and then
penitently fallen before her patron saint imploring forgiveness, or hurried to confess her
sin to the wily padre. If the confession was accompanied by a gift, she has been absolved by
him; if she were poor, her tear-stained face, perhaps resembling that of the suffering Madonna
over the confessional, has moved his heart to tenderness, for well he knows that

     "Maidens, like moths, are ever caught by glare,
     And Mammon wins his way where seraphs might despair."

The punishment imposed has only been that she repeat fifty or a hundred Ave Marias or Paternosters.
Poor deluded creature! Her sin only consisted in permitting her black eyes to gaze on me as
I passed down the street.

"These poor creatures often go to confession, not to be forgiven the wretched past, but to
get a new license to commit sin. One woman, to whom we offered a tract, refused it, and, showing
us an indulgence of three hundred days, said: 'These are the papers I like.'"

A young university man in the capital confessed that he had never read the New Testament and
never would read it, because he knew it was against the Church of Rome. The mass of the people
have not the slightest notion of goodness, as we count piety, and lying is not considered wrong.
A native will often entreat the help of his favorite saint to commit a theft.

"To the Protestant the idea of religion without morals is inconceivable; but in South America
Romanism divorces morals and religion. It is quite possible to break every command of the Decalogue
and yet be a devoted, faithful Romanist." [Footnote: Rev. J. H. La Fetra, in "Protestant Missions
in South America"]

I can only describe Roman Catholicism on the South American continent as a species of heathenism.
The Church, to gain proselytes, accepted the old gods of the Indians as saints, and we find
idolatrous superstition and Catholic display blended together. The most ignorant are invariably
the most pious. The more civilized the Criollo becomes, the less he believes in the Church,
and the priest in return condemns him to eternal perdition.

"It is not necessary to detail the multitude of pagan superstitions with which the religion
of South America is encumbered. It is enough to point out that it does not preach Christ crucified
and risen again. It preaches Mary, whom it proclaims from the lips of thousands of lecherous
priests to be of perpetual virginity. And it is by its deliberate falsehood and deceit, as
well as by its misrepresentation, that the Roman Catholic Church in South America has not only
not taught Christianity, but has directly fostered deception and untruth of character." [Footnote:
Missions in South America. Robert E. Speer.]

When I desired respectfully to enter a church with bared head and deferential mien, they have
followed me to see that I did not steal the trinkets from the saints or desecrate the altar.
If I have touched the font of holy water, instead of it purifying me, I have defiled it for
their use; and when I have looked at the images of the saints the people have seen them frown
at me. After my exit the priest would sprinkle holy water on the spots where I had stood, to
drive away "the evil influence."

In those churches one may see an image, with inscription beneath, stating that those who kiss
it receive an indulgence for sin and a promise of heaven. When preaching in Parana I inadvertently
dropped a word in disparagement of the worship of the Virgin, when, quick as thought, a man
dashed towards me with gleaming steel. The Criollo's knife never errs, and one sharp lunge
too well completes his task; but an old Paraguayan friend then with me sprang upon him and
dashed the knife to the ground, thus leaving my heart's blood warm within me, and not on the
pavement. I admired my antagonist for the strength of his convictions--true loyalty he displayed
for his goddess, who, however, does not, I am sure, teach her devotees to assassinate those
who prefer to put their faith rather in her Divine Son. Had I been killed the priest would
on no account have buried me, and would most willingly have absolved the assassin and kept
him from the "arm of justice." That arm in those places is very short indeed, for I have myself
met dozens of murderers rejoicing in their freedom. Hell is only for Protestants.

On the door of my lodging I found one morning a written paper, well pasted on, which read:

MUERA! VIVA LA VIRGEN CON TODOS LOS SANTOS!

"Die! Live the Virgin and all the Saints!" That paper I took from the door and keep as a souvenir
of fanaticism.

The Bible is an utterly unknown book, except to the priests, who forbid its entrance to the
houses. It, however, could do little good or harm, for the masses of the people are utterly
unlettered. All Protestant literature stolen into the town is invariably gathered and burned
by the priest, who would not hesitate also to burn the bringer if he could without fear of
some after-enquiry into the matter.

Rome is to-day just what she always was. Her own claim and motto is: Semper idem (Always the
same). But for this age of enlightenment her inquisitorial fires would still burn. "Rome's
contention is, not that she does not persecute, but only that she does not persecute saints.
She punishes heretics--a very different thing. In the Rhemish New Testament there is a note
on the words, 'drunken with the blood of saints,' which runs as follows: 'Protestants foolishly
expound this of Rome because heretics are there put to death. But their blood is not called
the blood of saints, any more than the blood of thieves or man-killers, or other malefactors;
and for the shedding of it no commonwealth shall give account.'"

During my residence in Argentina a Jesuit priest in Cordoba publicly stated that if he had
his way he would burn to death every Protestant in the country.

The following statements are from authorized documents, laws and decrees of the Papacy:

"The papacy teaches all her adherents that it is a sacred duty to exterminate heresy.

"Urban II. issued a decree that the murder of heretics was excusable. 'We do not count them
murderers who, burning with the zeal of their Catholic mother against the excommunicate, may
happen to have slain some of them.'" [Footnote: "Romanism and Reformation."]

In Argentine life the almanac plays an important part; in that each day is dedicated to the
commemoration of some saint, and the child born must of necessity be named after the saint
on whose day he or she arrives into the world. The first question is, "What name does it bring?"
The baby may have chosen to come at a time when the calendar shows an undesirable name, still
the parents grumble not, for a saint is a saint, and whatever names they bear must be good.
The child is, therefore, christened "Caraciollo," or "John Baptist," when, instead of growing
up to be a forerunner of Christ, he or she may, with more likelihood, be a forerunner of the
devil. Whatever name a child brings, however, has Mary tacked on to it.

All names serve equally well for male or female children, as a concluding "o" or "a" serves
to distinguish the sex. Many men bear the name of Joseph Mary. Numbers, also, both male and
female, have been baptized by the name of "Jesus," "Saviour," or "Redeemer." If I were asked
the old question, "What's in a name?" I should answer, "Very little," for in South America
the most insolent thief will often boast in the appellation of Don Justice, and the lowest
girl in the village may be Senorita Celestial. Don Jesus may be found incarcerated for riotous
conduct, and I have known Don Saviour throw his unfortunate wife and children down a well;
Don Destroyer would have been a more appropriate name for him. Mrs. Angel her husband sometimes
finds not such an angel after all, when she puts poison into his mate cup, a not infrequent
occurrence. Let none be deceived in thinking that the appellation is any index to a man's character.

Dark, needy people--Rome's true children!

The school-books read: Which is the greatest country? Ans., Spain. Who is the greatest man?
Ans., The Pope. Why? Because he is infallible.

It is his wish, and the priest's duty, to keep them in this darkness. Yet,--One came from God,
"a light to lighten the Gentiles," and He said, "I am the Light of the world." Some day they
may hear of Him and themselves see the Light.

Already the day is breaking, and superstition must prepare to hide itself. The uneducated native
no longer pursues the railway train at thundering pace to lasso it because the priest raved
against its being built. He even in some cases doubts if it is "an invention of hell," as he
was taught.

The educated native, Alberdi, a publicist and an advocate of freedom, in the discussion over
religious rights of foreigners in the Argentine, wrote: "Spanish America reduced to Catholicism,
with the exclusion of any other cult, represents a solitary and silent convent of monks. The
dilemma is fatal,--either Catholics and unpopulated, or populated and prosperous and tolerant
in the matter of religion."

CHAPTER IV.

TEE PRAIRIE AND ITS INHABITANTS.

The Pampas, or prairie lands of the Argentine, stretch to the south and west of Buenos Ayres,
and cover some 800,000 square miles. On this vast level plain, watered by sluggish streams
or shallow lakes, boundless as the ocean, seemingly limitless in extent, there is an exhilarating
air and a rich herbage on which browse countless herds of cattle, horses, and flocks of sheep.
The grass grows tall, and miles upon miles of rich scarlet, white, or yellow flowers mingle
with or overtop it. Beds of thistles, in which the cattle completely hide themselves, stretch
away for leagues and leagues, and present an almost unbroken sheet of purple flowers. So vast
are these thistle- beds that a day's ride through them only leaves the traveller with the same
purple forest stretching away to the horizon. The florist would be enchanted to see whole tracts
of land covered by the Verbena Melindres, which appears, even long before you reach it, to
be of a bright scarlet. There are also acres and acres of the many- flowered camomile and numberless
other plants; while large tracts of low-lying land are covered with coarse pampa grass, affording
shelter for numberless deer, and many varieties of ducks, cranes, flamingoes, swans and turkeys.
Wood there is none, with the exception of a solitary tree here and there at great distances,
generally marking the site of some cattle establishment OP estancia. An ombu, or cluster of
blue gums, is certain to be planted there.

On this prairie, man, notwithstanding the fact that he is the "lord of creation," is decidedly
in the minority. Millions of four-footed animals roam the plains, but he may be counted by
hundreds. Let us turn to him, however, in his isolated home, for the Gaucho has been described
as one of the most interesting races on the face of the earth. A descendant of the old conquerors,
who, leaving their fair ones in the Spanish peninsula, took unto them as wives the unclothed
women of the new world, he inherits the color and habits of the one with the vices and dignity
of the other. Living the wild, free life of the Indian, and retaining the language of Spain;
the finest horseman of the world, and perhaps the worst assassin; the most open- handed and
hospitable, yet the accomplished purloiner of his neighbor's cattle; imitating the Spaniard
in the beautifully-chased silver trappings of his horse, and the untutored Indian in his miserable
adobe hovel; spending his whole wealth in heavy gold or silver bell-shaped stirrups, bridle,
or spurs (the rowel of the latter sometimes having a diameter of six inches), and leaving his
home destitute of the veriest necessities of life--such is the Gaucho. A horn or shell from
the river's bed makes his spoon, gourds provide him with his plates and dishes; but his knife,
with gold or silver handle and sheath, is almost a little fortune in itself. Content in his
dwelling to sit on a bullock's skull, on horseback his saddle must be mounted in silver. His
own beard and hair he seldom trims, but his horse's mane and tail must be assiduously tended.
The baked-mud floor of his abode is littered with filth and dirt, while he raves at a speck
of mud on his embroidered silk saddle-cloth.

The Gaucho is a strange contradiction. He has blushed at my good but plain-looking saddle,
yet courteously asked me to take a skull seat. He may possess five hundred horses, but you
search his kitchen in vain for a plate. If you please him he will present you with his best
horse, waving away your thanks. If you displease him, his long knife will just as readily find
its way to your heart, for he kills his enemies with as little compunction as he kills the
ostrich. "The Gaucho, with his proud and dissolute air, is the most unique of all South American
characters. He is courageous and cruel, active and tireless. Never more at ease than when on
the wildest horse; on the ground, out of his element. His politeness is excessive, his nature
fierce." The children do not, like ours, play with toys, but delight the parents' hearts by
teasing a cat or dog. These they will stick with a thorn or pointed bone to hear them yell,
or, later on, lasso and half choke them. "They will put out their eyes, and such like childish
games, innocent little darlings that they are." Cold-blooded torture is their delight, and
they will cheer at the sight of blood.

To describe the dress of this descendant of Adam I feel myself incapable. A shirt and a big
slouch hat seem to be the only articles of attire like ours. Coat, trousers or shoes he does
not wear. Instead of the first mentioned, he uses the poncho, a long, broad blanket, with a
slit in the centre to admit his head. For trousers he wears very wide white drawers, richly
embroidered with broad needlework and stiffly starched. Over these he puts a black chiripa,
which really I cannot describe other than as similar to the napkins the mother provides for
her child. Below this black and white leg covering come the long boots, made from one piece
of seamless hide. These boots are nothing more than the skin from the hind legs of an animal--generally
a full-grown horse. The bend of the horse's leg makes the boot's heel. Naturally the toes protrude,
and this is not sewn up, for the Gaucho never puts more than his big toe in the stirrup, which,
like the bit in his horse's mouth, must be of solid silver. A dandy will beautifully scallop
these rawhide boots around the tops and toes, and keep them soft with an occasional application
of grease. No heel is ever attached. Around the man's waist, holding up his drawers and chiripa,
is wound a long colored belt, with tasseled ends left hanging over his boot, down the right
side; and over that he invariably wears a broad skin belt, clasped at the front with silver
and adorned all around with gold or silver coins. In this the long knife is carried.

What shall I say of the domestic life of these people? Unfortunately, marriage is practically
unknown among them. The father gives his son a few cattle, and the young man, after building
himself a house, conducts thither his chosen one. Unhappily, constancy in either man or woman
is a rare virtue.

Of the superstitious side of the Gancho race I might speak much. In the saints the female especially
implicitly believes. These, her deities, are all-powerful, and to them she appeals for the
satisfaction of her every desire. Saint Clementina's help is sought by the girl when her lover
betrays her. Another saint will aid her in poisoning him. If the wife thinks her husband long
in bringing the evening meal, she has informed me, a word with Saint Anthony is sufficient,
and she hears the sound of his horse's hoofs. Saint Anthony seems to be useful on many occasions
of distress. One evening I called at a rancho made of dry thistle-stalks bound together with
hide and thatched with reeds, Finding the inmates very hospitable, I stayed there two or three
hours to rest. Coming out of the house again, I found to my dismay that during our animated
gossip my horse had broken loose and left me. Now the loss of a horse is too trivial a matter
to interest Anthony the saint, but a horse having saddle and bridle attached to him makes it
quite a different matter, for these often cost ten times the price of the horse. One of the
saint's especial duties is to find a lost saddled horse, if the owner or interested one only
promises to burn a candle in his honor. The night was very dark, and no sign of the animal
was to be seen. Mine host laid his ear to the ground and listened, then, leaping on his horse,
he galloped into the darkness, from whence he brought my lost animal. I did not learn until
afterwards that Mrs. Jesus, for such was the woman's name, had sought the help of Saint Anthony
on my behalf. I am sure she lost her previous good opinion of me when I thanked her husband
but did not offer a special colored candle to her saint.

Among these strange people I commenced a school, and had the joy of teaching numbers of them
to read the Spanish Bible. Boys and girls came long distances on horseback, and, although some
of them had perhaps never seen a book before, I found them exceedingly quick to learn. In four
or five months the older ones were able to read any ordinary chapter. In arithmetic they were
inconceivably dull, and after three months' tuition some of them could not count ten.

I have said the saints are greatly honored among these people. My Christmas cards generally
found their way to adorn their altars. Every house has its favorite, and some of these are
regarded as especially clever in curing sickness. It being a very unhealthful, low-lying district
where my school was, I contracted malarial fever, and went to bed very sick. Every day some
of the children would come to enquire after me, but Celestino, one of the larger boys, came
one morning with a very special message from his mother. This communication was to the effect
that they did not wish the school- teacher to die, he being "rather a nice kind of a man and
well liked." Because of this she would be pleased to let me have her favorite saint. This image
I could stand at the head of my bed, and its very presence would cure me. When I refused this
offer and smiled at its absurdity, the boy thought me very strange. To be so wise in some respects,
and yet so ignorant as to refuse such a chance, was to him incomprehensible. The saints, I
found, are there often lent out to friends that they may exercise their healing powers, or
rented out to strangers at so much a day, When they are not thus on duty, but in a quiet corner
of the hut, they get lonely. The woman will then go for a visit, taking her saint with her,
either in her arms or tied to the saddle. This image she will place with the saint her host
owns, and they will talk together and teach one another. A saint is supposed to know only its
own particular work, although one named Santa Rita is said to be a worker of impossibilities.
Some of them are only very rudely carved images, dressed in tawdry finery. I have sometimes
thought that a Parisian doll of modern make, able to open and close its eyes, etc., would in
their esteem be even competent to raise the dead! [Footnote: Writing of Spanish American Romanism,
Everybody's Magazine says: "To the student of human nature, which means the study of evil as
well as good, this religious body is of absorbing interest. One would look to find these enthusiasts
righteous and virtuous in their daily life; but, apart from the annual week of penance, their
religion influences them not at all, and on the whole the members of the Brotherhood constitute
a desperate class, dangerous to society."]

In cases of sickness very simple remedies are used, and not a few utterly nonsensical. To cure
pains in the stomach they tie around them the skin of the comadreka, a small, vile-smelling
animal. This they told me was a sovereign remedy. If the sufferer be a babe, a cross made on
its stomach is sufficient to perfectly cure it. I have seen seven pieces of the root of the
white lily, which there grows wild, tied around the neck of an infant in order that its teeth
might come with greater promptitude and less pain. A string of dog's teeth serves the same
purpose. To cure a bad wound, the priest will be called in that he may write around the sore
some Latin prayer backwards. Headache is easily cured by tying around the head the cast-off
skin of a snake. Two puppies are killed and bound one on each side of a broken limb. If a charm
is worn around the neck no poison can be harmful. For a sore throat it is sufficient to expectorate
in the fire three times, making a cross. Lockjaw is effectually stopped by tying around the
sufferer's jaws the strings from a virgin's skirt; and they say also that powdered excrement
of a dog, taken in a glass of water, cures the smallpox patient,

As Mrs. Jesus sent her boy to my school, so Mrs. Flower sent her girl. The latter was perhaps
the most deluded woman I have met. Her every act was bad in itself or characterized by superstitious
devotion. She was one of the Church's favorite worshippers, and while I was in the neighborhood
she sold her cows and horses and presented the priest at the nearest town with a large and
expensive silver cross--the emblem of suffering purity. Near her lived a person for whom she
had an especial aversion, but that enemy she got rid of in surely the strangest of ways, which
she described to me. Catching a snake, and holding it so that its poison might not reach her,
she passed a threaded needle through both its eyes. When this was done she let it go again,
alive, and, carefully guarding the needle, approached the person from behind and made a cross
with the thread. The undesired one disappeared, having probably heard of the enchantment, and
being equally superstitious, or--the charm worked!

Mrs. Flower was a most repulsive-looking creature. Her skin was exactly the color of an old
copper coin. She did not resemble any flower I have seen in either hemisphere. Far was she
from being a rose, but she certainly possessed the thorn. Her love for the saints was most
marked, and I have known her promise St. Roque that she would walk six miles carrying his image
if he would only grant her a certain prayer. This petition he granted, and off she trudged
with her divine (?) load. Those acquainted with dwellers on the prairie know that this was
indeed a great task, horses being so cheap and riding so universal. Mrs. Flower was unaccustomed
to walk even the shortest distance. I myself can bear witness to the fact that even strong
men find it hard to walk a mile after spending years in equestrian travel. The native tells
you that God formed your legs so that you might be able to sit on a horse rather than to walk
with them. A favorite expression with them is, "I was born on horseback."

Stone not being found on the pampas, these people generally build their houses of square sods,
with a roof of plaited grasses-- sometimes I have observed these beautifully woven together.
Two or more holes, according to the size of the house, are left to serve for door and window.
Wood cannot be obtained, glass has not been introduced, so the holes are left as open spaces,
across which, when the pampa wind blows, a hide is stretched. No hole is left in the roof for
the smoke of the fire to escape, for this to the native is no inconvenience whatever. When
I have been compelled to fly with racking cough and splitting head, he has calmly asked the
reason. Never could I bear the blinding smoke that issues from his fire of sheep or cow dung
burning on the earthen floor, though he heeds it not as, sitting on a bullock's skull, he ravenously
eats his evening meal.

If entertaining a stranger, he will press uncut joint after joint of his asado upon him. This
asado is meat roasted over the fire on a spit; if beef, with the skin and hair still attached.
Meat cooked in this way is a real delicacy. A favorite dish with them (I held a different opinion)
is a half-formed calf, taken before its proper time of birth. The meat is often dipped in the
ashes in lieu of salt. I have said the Gaucho has no chair. I might add that neither has he
a table, for with his fingers and knife he eats the meat off the fire. Forks he is without,
and a horn or shell spoon conveys the soup to his mouth direct from the copper pan. So universal
is the use of the shell for this service that the native does not speak of it as caracol, the
real word for shell, but calls it cuchara del agua, or water spoon. Of knives he possesses
more than enough, and heavy, long, sharp-pointed ones they are. When his hunger is appeased
the knife goes, not to the kitchen, but to his belt, where, when not in his hand, you may always
see it. With that weapon he kills a sheep, cuts off the head of a serpent--seemingly, however,
not doing it much harm, for it still wriggles--sticks his horse when in anger, and, alas, as
I have said, sometimes stabs his fellow-man. Being so far isolated from the coast, he is necessarily
entirely uneducated. The forward march of the outer world concerns him not; indeed he imagines
that his native prairie stretches away to the end of the world. He will gaze with wonder on
your watch, for his only mode of ascertaining the time is by the shadow the sun casts. As that
luminary rises and sets, so he sleeps and wakes. His only bed is the sheepskin, which when
riding he fastens over his saddle, and the latter article forms his pillow. His coverlet is
the firmament of heaven, the Southern Cross and other constellations, unseen by dwellers in
the Northern Hemisphere, seeming to keep watch over him; or in the colder season his poncho,
which I have already described. Around his couch flit the fireflies, resembling so many stars
of earth with their strangely radiant lights. The brightness of one, when held near the face
of my watch, made light enough to enable me to ascertain the hour, even on the darkest night.

The Gaucho with his horse is at home anywhere. When on a journey he will stop for the evening
meal beside the dry bones of some dead animal. With these and grass he will make a fire and
cook the meat he carries hanging behind him on the saddle. I have known an animal killed and
the meat cooked with its own bones, but this is not usual. Dry bones burn better, and thistle-stalks
better still. He will then lie down on mother earth with the horse-cloth under him and the
saddle for a pillow. When travelling with these men I have known them, without any comment,
stretch themselves on the ground, even though the rain was falling, and soon be in dreamland.
After having passed a wretched night myself, I have asked them, "How did you sleep?" "Muy Bien,
Senor" (Very good, sir), has been the invariable answer. They would often growl much, however,
over the wet saddle- cloths, for these soon cause a horse's back to become sore.

Here and there, but sometimes at long distances apart, there is a pulperia on the road. This
is always designated by having a white flag flying on the end of a long bamboo. At these places
cheap spirits of wine and very bad rum can be bought, along with tobacco, hard ship-biscuits
(very often full of maggots, as I know only too well), and a few other more necessary things.
I have observed in some of these wayside inns counters made of turf, built in blocks as bricks
would be. Here the natives stop to drink long and deep, and stew their meagre brains in bad
spirits. These draughts result in quarrels and sometimes in murder.

The Gaucho, like the Indian, cannot drink liquor without becoming maddened by it. He will then
do things which in his sober moments he would not dream of. I was acquainted with a man who
owned a horse of which he was very fond This animal bore him one evening to a pulperia some
miles distant, and was left tied outside while he imbibed his fill inside. Coming out at length
beastly intoxicated, he mounted his horse and proceeded homeward. Arriving at a fork in the
path, the faithful horse took the one leading home, but the rider, thinking in his stupor that
the other way was the right one, turned the horse's head. As the poor creature wanted to get
home and have the saddle taken off, it turned again. This affront was too much for the Gaucho,
who is a man of volcanic passions, so drawing his knife, he stabbed it in the neck, and they
dropped to the ground together. When he realized that he had killed his favorite horse he cried
like a child. I passed this dead animal several times afterwards and saw the vultures clean
its bones. It served me as a witness to the results of ungoverned passion.

The Gaucho does not, and would not under any consideration, ride a mare; consequently, for
work she is practically valueless. Strain, who rode across the pampas, says: "In a single year
ten million hides were exported." For one or two dollars each the buyer may purchase any number;
indeed, of such little worth are the mares that they are very often killed for their hide,
or to serve as food for swine. At one estancia I visited I was informed that one was killed
each day for pig feed. The mare can be driven long distances, even a hundred miles a day, for
several successive days, The Argentine army must surely be the most mobile of any in the world,
for its soldiers, when on the march, get nothing but mare's flesh and the custom gives them
great facility of movement. The horse has, more or less, its standard value, and costs four
or five times the price of the mare.

Sometimes it happens that the native finds a colt which is positively untamable. On the cheek
of such an animal the Gaucho will burn a cross and then allow it to go free, like the scape-goat
mentioned in the book of Leviticus.

The native horse is rather small, but very wiry and wild. I was once compelled, through sickness,
to make a journey of ninety-seven miles, being in the saddle for seventeen consecutive hours,
and yet my poor horse was unable to get one mouthful of food on the journey, and the saddle
was not taken off his back for a moment. He was very wild, yet one evening between five and
eight o'clock, he bore me safely a distance of thirty-six miles, and returned the same distance
with me on the following morning. He had not eaten or drunk anything during the night, for
the locusts had devoured all pasturage and no rain had fallen for a space of five months.

The horse is not indigenous to America, although Darwin tells us that South America had a native
horse, which lived and disappeared ages ago. Spanish history informs us that they were first
landed in Buenos Ayres in 1537. We are further told that the Indians flew away in terror at
the sight of a man on horseback, which they took to be one animal of a strange, two-headed
shape. When the colony was for a time deserted these horses were suffered to run wild. Those
animals so multiplied and spread over such a vast area that they were found, forty-three years
later, even down to the Straits of Magellan, a distance of eleven hundred miles. With good
pasture and a limitless expanse to roam over, they soon turned from the dozens to thousands,
and may now be counted by millions. The Patagonian "foot" Indians quickly turned into "horse"
Indians, for on those wide prairie lands a man without a horse is almost comparable to a man
without legs. In former years, thousands of wild horses roamed over these extensive plains,
but the struggle of mankind in the battle of life turned men's attention to them, and they
were captured and branded by whomsoever had the power and cared to take the trouble. In the
more isolated districts, there may still be found numbers which are born and die without ever
feeling the touch of saddle or bridle. Far away from the crowded busses and perpetually moving
hansoms of the city, they feel not the driver's whip nor the strain of the wagon, as, with
tail trailing on the ground and head erect, they gallop in freedom of life. Happy they!

In all directions on the prairie ostriches are found. The natives catch them with boliadoras,
an old Indian weapon, which is simply three round stones, incased in bags of hide, tied together
by twisted ropes, also of hide. When the hunters have, by galloping from different directions,
baffled the bird in his flight, they thunder down upon him, and, throwing the boliadoras round
his legs, where they entangle, effectually stop his flight. I have seen this weapon thrown
a distance of about eighty yards.

The ostrich is a bird with wonderful digestive powers, which I often have envied him; he eats
grass or pebbles, insects or bones, as suits his varying fancy. If you drop your knife or any
other article, he will stop to examine it, being most inquisitive, and, if possible, he will
swallow it. The flesh of the ostrich is dry and tough, and its feathers are not to be compared
in beauty with those of the African specimen. Generally a very harmless bird, he is truly formidable
during breeding time. If one of the eggs is so much as touched he will break the whole number
to shivers. Woe to the man whom he savagely attacks at such times; one kick of his great foot,
with its sharp claws, is sufficient to open the body of man or horse. The Gaucho uses the skin
from the neck of this bird as a tobacco pouch, and the eggs are considered a great delicacy.
One is equal to about sixteen hen's eggs.

As all creation has its enemy, the ostrich finds his in the iguana, or lizard--an unsightly,
scaly, long-tailed species of land crocodile. This animal, when full-grown, attains the length
of five feet, and is of a dark green color. He, when he can procure them, feeds on the ostrich
eggs, which I believe must be a very strengthening diet. The lizard, after fattening himself
upon them during the six hotter months of the year, is enabled to retire to the recesses of
his cave, where he tranquilly sleeps through the remaining six. The shell of the ostrich's
egg is about the thickness of an antique china cup, but the iguana finds no difficulty in breaking
it open with a slash of his tail This wily animal is more astute than the bird, which lays
its eggs in the open spaces, for the lizard, with her claws, digs a hole in the ground, in
which hers are dropped to the number of dozens. The lizard does not provide shells for her
eggs, but only covers them with a thick, soft skin, and they, buried in the soil, eventually
hatch themselves.

When the Gaucho cannot obtain a better meal, the tail of the lizard is not considered such
a despicable dish by him, for he is no epicure. When he has nothing he is also contented. His
philosophy is: "Nunca tenga hambre cuando no hay que comer" (Never be hungry when no food is
to be had).

The estancia, or catile ranch, is a feature of the Argentine prairie. Some of these establishments
are very large, even up to one hundred square miles in extent. On them hundreds of thousands
of cattle, sheep and horses are herded. "It is not improbable that there are more cattle in
the pampas and llanos of South America than in all the rest of the world." [Footnote: Dr. Hartwig
in "Argentina," 1910] An estancia is almost invariably called by the name of some saint, as
are the different fields belonging to it. "Holy Mary field" and "Saint Joseph field" are common
names. Notwithstanding the fact that there may be thousands of cows on a ranch, the visitor
may be unable to get a drop of milk to drink. "Cows are not made to milk, but to eat," they
say. Life on these establishments is rough and the fare generally very coarse. Even among the
wealthy people I have visited you may sit down to dinner with nothing but meat put before you,
without a bite of bread or any vegetables. All drink water out of an earthenware pitcher of
peculiar shape, which is the centrepiece of the table.

Around the ranches of the people are many mice, which must be of a ferocious nature, for if
one is caught in a trap it will be found next morning half, if not almost wholly, eaten by
its own comrades. Well is it called "the cannibal mouse."

In times of drought the heat of the sun dries up all vegetation. The least spark of fire then
suffices to create a mighty blaze, especially if accompanied by the pampero wind, which blows
with irresistible force in its sweep over hundreds of miles of level ground. The fire, gathering
strength as it goes, drives all before it, or wraps everything in its devouring flames. Casting
a lurid light in the heavens, towards which rise volumes of smoke, it attracts the attention
of the native, who lifts his starting eyes towards heaven in a speechless prayer to the Holy
Virgin. Madly leaping on his fleetest horse, without saddle, and often without bridle, he wildly
gallops down the wind, as the roaring, crackling fire gains upon him. In this mad race for
life, men, horses, ostriches, deer, bullocks, etc., join, striving to excel each other in speed.
Strange to say, the horse the native rides, cheered on by the touch of his master, is often
the first to gain the lake or river, where, beneath its waters at least, refuge may be found.
In their wild stampede, vast herds of cattle trample and fall on one another and are drowned.
A more complete destruction could not overtake the unfortunate traveller than to be caught
by this remorseless foe, for not even his ashes could be found by mourning friends. The ground
thus burnt retains its heat for days. I have had occasion to cross blackened wastes a week
after this most destructive force in nature had done its work, and my horse has frequently
reared in the air at the touch of the hot soil on his hoofs.

The Gaucho has a strange method of fighting these fires. Several mares are killed and opened,
and they, by means of lassos, are dragged over the burning grass.

The immensity of the pampas is so great that one may travel many miles without sighting a single
tree or human habitation. The weary traveller finds his only shade from the sun's pitiless
rays under the broad brim of his sombrero. At times, with ears forward and extended nostrils,
the horse gazes intently at the rippling blue waters of the mirage, that most tantalizingly
deceptive phenomenon of nature. May it never be the lot of my reader to be misled by the illusive
mirage as I have been. How could I mistake vapor for clear, gurgling water? Yet, how many times
was I here deceived! Visions of great lakes and broad rivers rose up before me, lapping emerald
green shores, where I could cool my parched tongue and lave in their crystal depths; yet to-day
those waters are as far off as ever, and exist only in my hopes of Paradise. Not until I stand
by the "River of Life" shall I behold the reality.

The inhabitant of these treeless, trackless solitudes, which, with their waving grass, remind
one of the bosom of the ocean, develops a keen sight Where the stranger, after intently gazing,
descries nothing, he will not only inform him that animals are in sight, but will, moreover,
tell him what they are. I am blest with a very clear vision, but even when, after standing
on my horse's back, I have made out nothing, the Gaucho could tell me that over there was a
drove of cattle, a herd of deer, a troop of horses, or a house.

It is estimated that there are two hundred and forty millions of acres of wheat land in the
Argentine, and of late years the prairie has developed into one of the largest wheat-producing
countries in the world, and yet only one per cent, of its cultivable area is so far occupied.

The Gaucho is no farmer, and all his land is given up to cattle grazing, so chacras are worked
generally by foreign settlers. The province of Entre Rios has been settled largely by Swiss
and Italian farmers from the Piedmont Hills. Baron Hirsch has also planted a colony of Russian
Jews there, and provided them with farm implements. Wheat, corn, and linseed are the principal
crops, but sweet potatoes, tobacco, and fruit trees do well in this virgin ground, fertilized
by the dead animals of centuries. The soil is rich, and two or three crops can often be harvested
in a year.

No other part of the world has in recent years suffered from such a plague of locusts as the
agricultural districts of Argentina. They come from the north in clouds that sometimes darken
the sun. Some of the swarms have been estimated to be sixty miles long and from twelve to fifteen
miles wide. Fields which in the morning stand high with waving corn, are by evening only comparable
to ploughed or burnt lands. Even the roots are eaten up.

In 1907 the Argentine Government organized a bureau for the destruction of locusts, and in
1908 $4,500,000 was placed by Congress at the disposal of this commission. An organized service,
embracing thousands of men, is in readiness at any moment to send a force to any place where
danger is reported. Railway trains have been repeatedly stopped, and literally many tons of
them have had to be taken off the track. A fine of $100 is imposed upon any settler failing
to report the presence of locust swarms or hopper eggs on his land. Various means are adopted
by the land-owner to save what he can from the voracious insects. Men, women and children mount
their horses and drive flocks of sheep to and fro over the ground to kill them. A squatter
with whom I stayed got his laborers to gallop a troop of mares furiously around his garden
to keep them from settling there. All, however, seemed useless. About midsummer the locust
lays its eggs under an inch or two of soil. Each female will drop from thirty to fifty eggs,
all at the same time, in a mass resembling a head of wheat. As many as 50,000 eggs have been
counted in a space less than three and a half feet square.

During my sojourn in Entre Rios, the province where this insect seems to come in greatest numbers,
a law was passed that every man over the age of fourteen years, whether native or foreigner,
rich or poor, was compelled to dig out and carry to Government depots, four pounds weight of
locusts' eggs. It was supposed that this energetic measure would lessen their numbers. Many
tons were collected and burnt, but, I assure the reader, no appreciable difference whatever
was made in their legions. The young jumpers came, eating all before them, and their numbers
seemed infinite. Men dug trenches, kindled fires, and burned millions of them. Ditches two
yards wide and deep and two hundred feet long were completely filled up by these living waves.
But all efforts were unavailing--the earth remained covered. A Waldensian acquaintance suffered
for several years from this fearful plague. Some seasons he was not even able to get back so
much as the seed he planted. If the locusts passed him, it so happened that the pampero wind
blew with such terrific force that we have looked in vain even for the straw. The latter was
actually torn up by the roots and whirled away, none knew whither. At other times large hailstones,
for which the country is noted, have destroyed everything, or tens of thousands of green paroquets
have done their destructive work. When a five-months' drought was parching everything, I have
heard him reverently pray that God would spare him wheat sufficient to feed his family. This
food God gave him, and he thankfully invited me to share it. I rejoice in being able to say
that he afterwards became rich, and had his favorite saying, "Dios no me olvidae" (God will
not forget me), abundantly verified.

Notwithstanding natural drawbacks, which every country has, Argentina can claim to have gone
forward as no other country has during the last ten years. There are many estates worth more
than a million dollars. Dr. W. A. Hirot, in "Argentina," says: "Argentina has more live stock
than any other country of the world. Ten million hides have been exported in one year, and
it is not improbable that there are more cattle in South America than there are in all the
rest of the world combined." Belgium has 220 people occupying the space one person has in Argentina,
so who can prophesy as to its future?

PART II.

BOLIVIA

Bolivia, having no sea-coast, has been termed the Hermit Republic of South America. Its territory
is over 600,000 square miles in extent, and within its bounds Nature displays almost every
possible panorama, and all climates. There are burning plains, the home of the emu, armadillos,
and ants; sandy deserts, where the wind drifts the sand like snow, piling it up in ever-shifting
hills about thirty feet in height. Bolivia, shut in geographically and politically, is a world
in itself--a world of variety, in scenery, climate, products and people. Its capital city,
La Paz, has a population of 70,000, but the vast interior is almost uninhabited. In the number
of inhabitants to the square mile, Bolivia ranks the lowest of all the nations of the earth.

Perhaps no country of the world has been, and is, so rich in precious metals as Bolivia. "The
mines of Potosi alone have furnished the world over $1,500,000,000 worth of silver since the
Spaniards first took possession of them." [Footnote: "Protestant Missions in South America."]

Bolivia can lay claim to the most wonderful body of water in the world--Lake Titicaca. This
lake, nearly two and a half miles high in the air, is literally in the clouds. "Its lonely
waters have no outlet to the sea, but are guarded on their southern shores by gigantic ruins
of a prehistoric empire--palaces, temples, and fortresses--silent, mysterious monuments of
a long-lost golden age." Some of the largest and most remarkable ruins of the world are found
on the shores of Lake Titicaca, and as this was the centre of the great Incan Dynasty, that
remarkable people have also left wonderful remains, to build which stones thirty-eight feet
long, eighteen feet wide, and six feet thick, were quarried, carried and elevated. The Temple
of the Sun. the most sacred edifice of the Incas, was one of the richest buildings the sun
has ever shone upon, and it was itself a mine of wealth. From this one temple, Pizarro, the
Spanish conqueror, took 24,000 pounds of gold and 82,000 pounds of silver. "Ninety million
dollars' worth of precious metals was torn from Inca temples alone." The old monarch of the
country, Atahuallpa, gave Pizarro twenty-two million dollars in gold to buy back his country
and his liberty from the Spaniards, but their first act on receiving the vast ransom was to
march him after a crucifix at the head of a procession, and, because he refused to become a
Roman Catholic, put him to death. Perhaps never in the world's history was there a baser act
of perfidy, but this was urged by the soldier-priest of the conquerors, Father Valverde, who
himself signed the King's death- warrant. This priest was afterwards made Bishop of Atahuallpa's
capital.

Surely no country of the world has had a darker or a sadder history than this land of the Incas.
The Spaniards arrived when the "Children of the Sun" were at the height of their prosperity.
Every day outrages were perpetrated, at the contemplation of which humanity shudders. They
suffered the provident arrangements of the Incas to fall into decay. The poor Indian, without
food, now wandered half-starved and naked over the plateau. Millions perished at the forced
labor of the mines, The Incan Empire had, it is calculated, a population of twenty millions
at the arrival of the Spaniards, In two centuries the population fell to four millions.

When the groans of these beasts of burden reached the ears of the good (?) Queen Isabel of
Spain, she enacted a law that throughout her new dominions no Indian, man or woman, should
be compelled to carry more than three hundred pounds' weight at one load! Is it cause for wonder
that the poor, down-trodden natives, seeing the flaunting flag of Spain, with its stripe of
yellow between stripes of red, should regard it as representing a river of gold between two
rivers of blood?

"Not infrequently," said a reliable witness, "I have seen the Spaniards, long after the Conquest,
amuse themselves by hunting down the natives with blood hounds, for mere sport, or in order
to train their dogs to the game. The most unbounded scope was given to licentiousness. The
young maiden was torn remorselessly from the arms of her family to gratify the passion of her
brutal conqueror.

With the inexorable conqueror came the more inexorable priest. "Attendance at Roman Catholic
worship was made compulsory. Men and women with small children were compelled to journey as
much as thirty-six miles to attend mass. Absentees were punished, therefore the Indian feared
to disobey." [Footnote: Neely, "Spanish America."]

As is well known, the ancient inhabitants worshipped the sun and the moon. The Spanish priest,
in order to gain proselytes with greater facility, did not forbid this worship, but placed
the crucifix between the two. Where the Inca suns and moons were of solid gold and silver,
they were soon replaced by painted wooden ones. The crucifix, with sun and moon images on each
side, is common all over Bolivia to-day.

Now, four hundred years later, see the Indian under priestly rule. The following is taken from
an official report of the Governor of Chimborazo: "The religious festivals that the Indians
celebrate--not of their own will, but by the inexorable will of the priest--are, through the
manner in which they are kept, worse than those described to us of the times of Paganism, and
of monstrous consequences to morality and the national welfare ... they may be reckoned as
a barbarous mixture of idolatry and superstition, sustained by infamous avarice. The Indian
who is chosen to make a feast either has to use up in it his little savings, leaving his family
submerged in misery, or he has to rob in order to invest the products of his crime in paying
the fees to the priest and for church ceremonies. These are simply brutal orgies that last
many days, with a numerous attendance, and in which all manner of crimes and vices have free
license."

"For the idols of the aborigines were substituted the images of the Virgin Mary and the Roman
saints. The Indians gave up their old idols, but they went on with their image-worship. Image-worship
is idolatry, whether in India, Africa, or anywhere else, and the worship of Roman images is
essentially idolatry as much as the worship of any other kind of images. Romanism substituted
for one set of idols another set. So the Indians who were idolaters continued to be idolaters,
only the new idols had other names and, possibly, were a little better-looking." [Footnote:
Neely, "South America."]

What has Romanism done for the Indians of Bolivia in its four hundred years of rule? Compare
the people of that peaceful, law-keeping dynasty which the Spaniards found with the Bolivian
Indian of to-day! Now the traveller can report: "The Indians are killing the whites wherever
they find them, and practising great cruelties, having bored holes in the heads of their victims
and sucked the brains out while they were yet alive. Sixteen whites are said to have been killed
in this way! These same Indians are those who have been Christianized by the Roman priests
for the past three centuries, but such cruelties as they have been practising show that as
yet not a ray of Christ's love has entered their darkened minds." How can the priest teach
what he is himself ignorant of?

Where the Indian has been civilized, as well as Romanized, Mr. Milne, of the American Bible
Society, could write:

"Since the Spanish conquest the progress of the Indians has been in the line of deterioration
and moral degradation. They are oppressed by the Romish clergy, who can never drain contributions
enough out of them, and who make the children render service to pay for masses for deceased
parents and relatives. Tears came to our eyes as Mr. Penzotti and I watched them practising
their heathen rites in the streets of La Paz, the chief city of Bolivia. They differ from the
other Indians in that they are domesticated, but they know no more of the Gospel than they
did under the rule of the Incas."

What is to be the future of these natives? Shall they disappear from the stage of the world's
history like so many other aborigines, victims of civilization, or will a hand yet be stretched
out to help them? Civilization, after all, is not entirely made up of greed and lust, but in
it there is righteousness and truth. May the day soon dawn when some of the latter may be extended
to them ere they take the long, dark trail after their fathers, and have hurled the last malediction
at their cursed white oppressors!

  "We suffer yet a little space
   Until we pass away,
  The relics of an ancient race
   That ne'er has had its day."

For four hundred years Bolivia has thus been held in chains by Romish priestcraft. Since its
Incan rulers were massacred, its civilization has been of the lowest. Buildings, irrigation
dams, etc., were suffered to fall into disrepair, and the country went back to pre-Incan days.

The first Christian missionaries to enter the country were imprisoned and murdered. Now "the
morning light is breaking." A law has been passed granting liberty of worship.

Bolivia, with its vast natural riches, must come to the forefront, and already strides are
being taken forward. She can export over five million dollars' worth of rubber in one year,
and is now spending more than fifty million dollars on railways. So Bolivia is a country of
the past and the future.

CHAPTER V.

JOURNEY TO "THE UNEXPLORED LAKE."

Since the days when Pizarro's adventurers discovered the hitherto undreamed-of splendor of
the Inca Dynasty, Bolivia has been a land of surprises and romantic discovery. Strange to say,
even yet much of the eastern portion of this great republic remains practically unexplored.
The following account of exploration in those regions, left for men of the twentieth century,
may not, I am persuaded, be without interest to the general reader. Bolivia has for many years
been seriously handicapped through having no adequate water outlet to the sea, and the immense
resources of wealth she undoubtedly possesses have, for this reason, been suffered to go, in
a measure, unworked. Now, however, in the onward progress of nations, Bolivia has stepped forward.
In the year 1900, the Government of that country despatched an expedition to locate and explore
Lake Gaiba, a large sheet of water said to exist in the far interior of Bolivia and Brazil,
on the line dividing the two republics. The expedition staff consisted of Captain Bolland,
an Englishman; M. Barbiere, a Frenchman; Dr. Perez, Bolivian; M. Gerard D'Avezsac, French artist
and hunter, and the writer of these pages. The crew of ten men was made up of Paraguayans and
Argentines, white men and colored, one Bolivian, one Italian, and one Brazilian. Strange to
relate, there was no Scotchman, even the ship's engineer being French. Perhaps the missing
Scotch engineer was on his way to the Pole, in order to be found sitting there on its discovery
by----(?)

The object of this costly journey was to ascend the rivers La Plata, Paraguay and Alto Paraguay,
and see if it were possible to establish a port and town in Bolivian territory on the shores
of the lake. After some months of untiring energy and perseverance, there was discovered for
Bolivia a fine port, with depth of water for any ordinary river steamer, which will now be
known to the world as Puerto Quijarro. A direct fluvial route, therefore, exists between the
Atlantic and this far inland point.

The expedition left Buenos Ayres, the capital of the Argentine Republic. Sailing up the western
bank of the River of Silver, we entered the Parana River, and after an uneventful voyage of
six days, passed the mouth of the River of Gold, and turned into the Paraguay.

Three hundred miles up the Higher Parana, a mighty stream flowing from the northeast, which
we here left to our right, are the Falls of Yguasu. These falls have been seen by few white
men. The land on each side of the river is infested by the Bugres Indians, a tribe of cannibals,
of excessively ferocious nature. The Falls of Big Water must be the largest in the world--and
the writer is well acquainted with Niagara.

The river, over two and a half miles wide, containing almost as much water as all the rivers
of Europe together, rushes between perpendicular cliffs. With a current of forty miles an hour,
and a volume of water that cannot be less than a million tons a minute, the mighty torrent
rushes with indescribable fury against a rocky island, which separates it into two branches,
so that the total width is about two miles and a half. The Brazilian arm of the river forms
a tremendous horseshoe here, and plunges with a deafening roar into the abyss two hundred and
thirteen feet below. The Argentine branch spreads out in a sort of amphitheatre form, and finishes
with one grand leap into the jagged rocks, more than two hundred and twenty- nine feet below,
making the very earth vibrate, while spray, rising in columns, is visible several miles distant.

"Below the island the two arms unite and flow on into the Parana River. From the Brazilian
bank the spectator, at a height of two hundred and eighty feet, gazes out over two and a half
miles of some of the wildest and most fantastic water scenery he can ever hope to see. Waters
stream, seethe, leap, bound, froth and foam, 'throwing the sweat of their agony high in the
air, and, writhing, twisting, screaming and moaning, bear off to the Parana.' Under the blue
vault of the sky, this sea of foam, of pearls, of iridescent dust, bathes the great background
in a shower of beauty that all the more adds to the riot of tropical hues already there. When
a high wind is blowing, the roar of the cataract can be heard nearly twenty miles away. A rough
estimate of the horse-power represented by the falls is fourteen million."

Proceeding up the Paraguay River, we arrived at Asuncion, the capital of Paraguay, and anchored
in a beautiful bay of the river, opposite the city. As many necessary preparations had still
to be made, the expedition was detained in Asuncion for fifteen days, after which we boarded
the S.S. Leda, for the second stage of our journey.

Steaming up the Alto Paraguay, we passed the orange groves of that sunny land on the right
bank of the river, and on the left saw the encampments of the Tobas Indians, The dwellings
of these people are only a few branches of trees stuck in the ground. Further on, we saw the
Chamococos Indians, a fine muscular race of men and women, who cover their bronze-colored bodies
with the oil of the alligator, and think a covering half the size of a pocket-handkerchief
quite sufficient to hide their nakedness. As we stayed to take in wood, I tried to photograph
some of these, our brothers and sisters, but the camera was nothing but an object of dread
to them. One old woman, with her long, black, oily hair streaming in the breeze, almost withered
me with her flashing eyes and barbarous language, until I blushed as does a schoolboy when
caught in the act of stealing apples. Nevertheless, I got her photo.

The Pilcomayo, which empties its waters into the Paraguay, is one of the most mysterious of
rivers. Rising in Bolivia, its course can be traced down for some considerable distance, when
it loses itself in the arid wastes, or, as some maintain, flows underground. Its source and
mouth are known, but for many miles of its passage it is invisible. Numerous attempts to solve
its secrets have been made. They have almost invariably ended disastrously. The Spanish traveller,
Ibarete, set out with high hopes to travel along its banks, but he and seventeen men perished
in the attempt. Two half- famished, prematurely-old, broken men were all that returned from
the unknown wilds. The Pilcomayo, which has proved itself the river of death to so many brave
men, remains to this day unexplored. The Indians inhabiting these regions are savage in the
extreme, and the French explorer, Creveaux, found them inhuman enough to leave him and most
of his party to die of hunger. The Tobas and the Angaitaes tribes are personally known to me,
and I speak from experience when I say that more cruel men I have never met. The Argentine
Government, after twenty years of warfare with them, was compelled, in 1900, to withdraw the
troops from their outposts and leave the savages in undisputed possession. If the following
was the type of civilization offered them, then they are better left to themselves: "Two hundred
Indians who have been made prisoners are compelled to be baptized. The ceremony takes place
in the presence of the Governor and officials of the district, and a great crowd of spectators.
The Indians kneel between two rows of soldiers, an officer with drawn sword compels each in
turn to open his mouth, into which a second officer throws a handful of salt, amid general
laughter at the wry faces of the Indians. Then a Franciscan padre comes with a pail of water
and besprinkles the prisoners. They are then commanded to rise, and each receives a piece of
paper inscribed with his new name, a scapulary, and--a glass of rum" [Footnote: Report of British
and Foreign Bible Society, 1900.] What countries these for missionary enterprise!

After sailing for eighteen days up the river, we transhipped into a smaller steamer going to
Bolivia. Sailing up the bay, you pass, on the south shore, a small Brazilian customs house,
which consists of a square roof of zinc, without walls, supported on four posts, standing about
two meters from the ground. A Brazilian, clothed only in his black skin, came down the house
ladder and stared at us as we passed. The compliment was returned, although we had become somewhat
accustomed to that style of dress--or undress. A little farther up the bay, a white stone shone
out in the sunlight, marking the Bolivian boundary, and giving the name of Piedra Blanca to
the village. This landmark is shaded by a giant tamarind tree, and numerous barrel trees, or
palo boracho, grow in the vicinity. In my many wanderings in tropical America, I have seen
numerous strange trees, but these are extraordinarily so. The trunk comes out of the ground
with a small circumference, then gradually widens out to the proportions of an enormous barrel,
and at the top closes up to the two-foot circumference again. Two branches, like giant arms
spread themselves out in a most weird-looking manner on the top of all. About five leaves grow
on each bough, and, instinctively, you consider them the fingers of the arms.

It was only three leagues to the Bolivian town of Piedra Blanca, but the "Bahia do Marengo"
took three hours to steam the short distance, for five times we had to stop on the way, owing
to the bearings becoming heated. These the Brazilian engineer cooled with pails of water.

In the beautiful Bay of Caceres, much of which was grown over with lotus and Victoria Regia,
we finally anchored. This Bolivian village is about eighteen days' sail up the river from Montevideo
on the seacoast.

Chartering the "General Pando," a steamer of 25 h.p. and 70 ft. long, we there completed our
preparations, and finally steamed away up the Alto Paraguay, proudly flying the Bolivian flag
of red, yellow, and green. As a correct plan of the river had to be drawn, the steamer only
travelled by day, when we were able to admire the grandeur of the scenery, which daily grew
wilder as the mountains vied with each other in lifting their rugged peaks toward heaven. From
time to time we passed one of the numerous islands the Paraguay is noted for. These are clothed
with such luxuriant vegetation that nothing less than an army of men with axes could penetrate
them. The land is one great, wild, untidy, luxuriant hot-house, "built by nature for herself."
The puma, jaguar and wildcat are here at home, besides the anaconda and boa constrictor, which
grow to enormous lengths. The Yaci Reta, or Island of the Moon, is the ideal haunt of the jaguar,
and as we passed it a pair of those royal beasts were playing on the shore like two enormous
cats. As they caught sight of us, one leapt into the mangrove swamp, out of sight, and the
other took a plunge into the river, only to rise a few yards distant and receive an explosive
bullet in his head. The mangrove tree, with its twisting limbs and bright green foliage, grows
in the warm water and fotid mud of tropical countries. It is a type of death, for pestilence
hangs round it like a cloud. At early morning this cloud is a very visible one. The peculiarity
of the tree is that its hanging branches themselves take root, and, nourished by such putrid
exhalations, it quickly spreads.

There were also many floating islands of fantastic shape, on which birds rested in graceful
pose. We saw the garza blanca, the aigrets of which are esteemed by royalty and commoner alike,
along with other birds new and strange. To several on board who had looked for years on nothing
but the flat Argentine pampas, this change of scenery was most exhilarating, and when one morning
the sun rose behind the "Golden Mountains," and illuminated peak after peak, the effect was
glorious. So startlingly grand were some of the colors that our artist more than once said
he dare not paint them, as the world would think that his coloring was not true to nature.

Many were the strange sights we saw on the shore. Once we were amused at the ludicrous spectacle
of a large bird of the stork family, which had built its nest in a tree almost overhanging
the river. The nest was a collection of reeds and feathers, having two holes in the bottom,
through which the legs of the bird were hanging. The feet, suspended quite a yard below the
nest, made one wonder how the bird could rise from its sitting position.

Every sight the traveller sees, however, is not so amusing. As darkness creeps over earth and
sky, and the pale moonbeams shed a fitful light, it is most pathetic to see on the shore the
dead trunk and limbs of a tree, in the branches of which has been constructed a rude platform,
on which some dark-minded Indian has reverently lifted the dead body of his comrade. The night
wind, stirring the dry bones and whistling through the empty skull, makes weird music!

The banks of the stream had gradually come nearer and nearer to us, and the great river, stretching
one hundred and fifty miles in width where it pours its volume of millions of tons of water
into the sea at Montevideo, was here a silver ribbon, not half a mile across.

Far be it from me to convey the idea that life in those latitudes is Eden. The mosquitos and
other insects almost drive one mad. The country may truly be called a naturalists' paradise,
for butterflies, beetles, and creeping things are multitudinous, but the climate, with its
damp, sickly heat, is wholly unsuited to the Anglo-Saxon. Day after day the sun in all his
remorseless strength blazes upon the earth, is if desirous of setting the whole world on fire.
The thermometer in the shade registered 110, 112 and 114 degrees Fahrenheit, and on one or
two memorable days 118 degrees. The heat in our little saloon at times rose as high as 130
degrees, and the perspiration poured down in streams on our almost naked bodies. We seemed
to be running right into the brazen sun itself.

One morning the man on the look-out descried deer on the starboard bow, and arms were quickly
brought out, ready for use. Our French hunter was just taking aim when it struck me that the
deer moved in a strange way. I immediately asked him to desist. Those dark forms in the long
grass seemed, to my somewhat trained eyes, naked Indians, and as we drew nearer to them so
it proved, and the man was thankful he had withheld his fire.

After steaming for some distance up the river several dug-outs, filled with Guatos Indians,
paddled alongside us. An early traveller in those head-waters wrotes of these: "Some of the
smaller tribes were but a little removed from the wild brutes of their own jungles. The lowest
in the scale, perhaps, were the Guatos, who dwell to the north of the Rio Apa. This tribe consisted
of less than one hundred persons, and they were as unapproachable as wild beasts. No other
person, Indian or foreigner, could ever come near but they would fly and hide in impenetrable
jungles. They had no written language of their own, and lived like unreasoning animals, without
laws or religion."

The Guato Indian seems now to be a tame and inoffensive creature, but well able to strike a
bargain in the sale of his dug-out canoes, home-made guitars and other curios. In the wrobbling
canoe they are very dexterous, as also in the use of their long bows and arrows; the latter
have points of sharpened bone. When hungry, they hunt or fish. When thirsty, they drink from
the river; and if they wish clothing, wild cotton grows in abundance.

These Indians, living, as they do, along the banks of the river and streams, have recently
been frequently visited by the white man on his passage along those natural highways. It is,
therefore superfluous for me to add that they are now correspondingly demoralized. It is a
most humiliating fact that just in proportion as the paleface advances into lands hitherto
given up to the Indian so those races sink. This degeneration showed itself strikingly among
the Guatos in their inordinate desire for cachaca, or "firewater." Although extremely cautious
and wary in their exchanges to us, refusing to barter a bow and arrows for a shirt, yet, for
a bottle of cachaca, they would gladly have given even one of their canoes. These ketchiveyos,
twenty or twenty-five feet long by about twenty inches wide, they hollow from the trunk of
the cedar, or lapacho tree. This is done with great labor and skill; yet, as I have said, they
were boisterously eager to exchange this week's work for that which they knew would lead them
to fight and kill one another.

As a mark of special favor, the chief invited me to their little village, a few miles distant.
Stepping into one of their canoes--a large, very narrow boat, made of one tree-trunk hollowed
out by fire-- I was quickly paddled by three naked Indians up a narrow creek, which was almost
covered with lotus. The savages, standing in the canoe, worked the paddles with a grace and
elegance which the civilized man would fail to acquire, and the narrow craft shot through the
water at great speed. The chief sat in silence at the stern. I occupied a palm-fibre mat spread
for me amidships. The very few words of Portuguese my companions spoke or understood rendered
conversation difficult, so the stillness was broken only by the gentle splash of the paddles.
On each side the dense forest seemed absolutely impenetrable, but we at last arrived at an
opening. As we drew ashore I noticed that an Indian path led directly inland.

Leaving our dug-out moored with a fibre rope to a large mangrove
tree, we started to thread our way through the forest, and finally
reached a clearing. Here we came upon a crowd of almost naked and
extremely dejected-looking women. Many of these, catching sight of
me, sped into the jungle like frightened deer. The chief's wife,
however, at a word from him, received me kindly, and after accepting
a brass necklace with evident pleasure, showed herself very affable.
Poor lost Guatos! Their dejected countenances, miserable grass huts,
alive with vermin, and their extreme poverty, were most touching.
Inhabiting, as they do, one of the hottest and dampest places on the
earth's surface, where mosquitos are numberless, the wonder is that
they exist at all. Truly, man is a strange being, who can adapt
himself to equatorial heat or polar frigidity. The Guatos' chief
business in life seemed to consist in sitting on fibre mats spread on
the ground, and driving away the bloodthirsty mosquitos from their
bare backs. For this they use a fan of their own manufacture, made
from wild cotton, which there seems to abound. Writing of mosquitos,
let me say these Indian specimens were a terror to us all. What
numbers we killed! I could write this account in their blood. It was
my blood, though--before they got it! Men who hunt the tiger in
cool bravery boiled with indignation before these awful pests, which
stabbed and stung with marvellous persistency, and disturbed
 the solitude of nature with their incessant humming. I write the
word incessant advisedly, for I learned that there are several
kinds of mosquitos. Some work by day and others by night. Naturalists
tell us that only the female mosquito bites. Did they take a
particular liking to us because we were all males?

Some of the Indians paint their naked bodies in squares, generally with red and black pigment.
Their huts were in some cases large, but very poorly constructed. When any members of the tribe
are taken sick they are supposed to be "possessed" by a stronger evil power, and the sickness
is "starved out." When the malady flies away the life generally accompanies it. The dead are
buried under the earth inside the huts, and in some of the dwellings graves are quite numerous.
This custom of interior burial has probably been adopted because the wild animals of the forest
would otherwise eat the corpse. Horrible to relate, their own half-wild dogs sometimes devour
the dead, though an older member of the tribe is generally left home to mount guard.

Seeing by the numerous gourds scattered around that they were drinking chicha, I solicited
some, being anxious to taste the beverage which had been used so many centuries before by the
old Incas. The wife of the chief immediately tore off a branch of the feather palm growing
beside her, and, certainly within a minute, made a basket, into which she placed a small gourd.
Going to the other side of the clearing, she commenced, with the agility of a monkey, to ascend
a long sapling which had been laid in a slanting position against a tall palm tree. The long,
graceful leaves of this cabbage palm had been torn open, and the heart thus left to ferment.
From the hollow cabbage the woman filled the gourd, and lowered it to me by a fibre rope. The
liquid I found to be thick and milky, and the taste not unlike cider.

Prescott tells us that Atahuallpa, the Peruvian monarch, came to see the conqueror, Pizarro,
"quaffing chicha from golden goblets borne by his attendants." [Footnote: Este Embajador traia
servicio de Senor, i cinco o seis Vasos de Oro fino, con que bebia, i con ellos daba a beber
a los Espanoles de la chicha que traia."--Xerez.] Golden goblets did not mean much to King
Atahuallpa, however, for his palace of five hundred different apartments is said to have been
tiled with beaten gold.

In these Guato Indians I observed a marked difference to any others I had visited, in that
they permitted the hair to grow on their faces. The chief was of quite patriarchal aspect,
with full beard and mild, intelligent-looking eyes. The savages inhabiting the Chaco consider
this custom extremely "dirty."

Before leaving these people I procured some of their bows and arrows, and also several cleverly
woven palm mats and cotton fans.

Some liquor our cook gave away had been taken out by the braves to their women in another encampment.
These spirits had so inflamed the otherwise retiring, modest females that they, with the men,
returned to the steamer, clamoring for more. All the stores, along with some liquors we carried,
were under my care, and I kept them securely locked up, but in my absence at the Indian camp
the store-room had been broken open, and our men and the Indians--men and women--had drunk
long and deep. A scene like Bedlam, or Dante's "Inferno," was taking place when I returned.
Willing as they were to listen to my counsel and admit that I was certainly a great white teacher,
with superior wisdom, on this love for liquor and its debasing consequences they would hear
no words. The women and girls, like the men, would clamor for the raw alcohol, and gulp it
down in long draughts. When ardent spirits are more sought after by women and girls than are
beads and looking-glasses it surely shows a terribly depraved taste. Even the chattering monkeys
in the trees overhead would spurn the poison and eagerly clutch the bright trinket. Perhaps
the looking-glasses I gave the poor females would, after the orgies were over, serve to show
them that their beauty was not increased by this beastly carousal, and thus be a means of blessing.
It may be asked, Can the savage be possessed of pride and of self-esteem? I unhesitatingly
answer yes, as I have had abundant opportunity of seeing. They will strut with peacock pride
when wearing a specially gaudy-colored headdress, although that may be their only article of
attire.

Having on board far more salt than we ourselves needed, I was enabled to generously distribute
much of that invaluable commodity among them. That also, working in a different way, might
be a means of restoring them to a normal soundness of mind after we left.

Poor lost creatures! For this draught of the white man's poison, far more terrible to them
than the deadly nightshade of their forests, more dangerous than the venom of the loathsome
serpent gliding across their path, they are willing to sell body or soul. Soul, did I say?
They have never heard of that. To them, so far as I could ascertain, a future life is unknown.
The explorer has penetrated some little way into their dark forests in search of rubber, or
anything else which it would pay to exploit, but the missionary of the Cross has never sought
to illumine their darker minds. They live their little day and go out into the unknown unconscious
of the fact that One called Jesus, who was the Incarnate God, died to redeem them. As a traveller,
I have often wondered why men should be willing to pay me hundreds of dollars to explore those
regions for ultimate worldly gain, and none should ever offer to employ me in proclaiming the
greatest wonder of all the ages--the story of Calvary--for eternal gain. After all, are the
Indians more blind to the future than we are? Yet, strange to say, we profess to believe in
the teachings of that One who inculcated the practice of laying up treasure in heaven, while
they have not even heard His name. For love of gain men have been willing to accompany me through
the most deadly fever-breeding morass, or to brave the poisoned arrows of the lynx-eyed Indian,
but few have ever offered to go and tell of Him whom they profess to serve.

The suffocating atmosphere quite precluded the idea of writing, for a pen, dipped in ink, would
dry before reaching the paper, and the latter be saturated with perspiration in a few seconds;
so these observations were penned later. So far as I could ascertain, the Romish Church has
never touched the Guatos, and, notwithstanding all I have said about them, I unhesitatingly
affirm that it is better so. Geo. R. Witte, missionary to Brazil, says: "With one exception,
all the priests with whom I came in contact (when on a journey through Northern Brazil) were
immoral, drunken, and ignorant. The tribes who have come under priestly care are decidedly
inferior in morals, industry, and order to the tribes who refuse to have anything to do with
the whites. The Charentes and Apinages have been, for years, under the care of Catholic friars--this
is the way I found them: both men and women walk about naked."

"We heard not one contradiction of the general testimony that the people who were not under
the influence of the Roman Catholic Church as it is in S. America were better morally than
those who were." [Footnote: Robert E. Speer, "Missions in South America."]

In Christendom organs peal out the anthems of Divine love, and well- dressed worshippers chant
in harmonious unison, "Lord, incline our hearts to keep Thy law." That law says: "Thou shalt
love thy neighbor as thyself." To the question: "Who is my neighbor?" the Divine voice answers:
"A certain man." May he not be one of these neglected Indians?

CHAPTER VI.

ARRIVAL AT THE LAKE.

  "It sleeps among a hundred hills
   Where no man ever trod,
  And only Nature's music fills
   The silences of God."

After going about two thousand three hundred miles up this serpentine river, we discovered
the entrance to the lake. Many had been the conjectures and counsels of would-be advisers when
we started. Some said that there was no entrance to the lake from the river; others, that there
was not sufficient depth of water for the steamer to pass through. On our port bow rose frowning
rocks of forbidding aspect. Drawing nearer, we noticed, with mingled feelings of curiosity
and wonder, that the face of these rocks was rudely carved by unmistakably Indian art. There
were portrayed a rising sun, tigers' feet, birds' feet, etc. Why were they thus carved? Are
those rocks the everlasting recorders of some old history--some deed of Indian daring in days
of old? What these hieroglyphics signify we may never know; the workman is gone, and his stone
hammer is buried with him. To twentieth century civilization his carving tells nothing. No
Indians inhabit the shores of the lake now, perhaps because of this "writing on the wall."

With the leadsman in his place we slowly and cautiously entered the unexplored lake, and thus
for the first time in the world's history its waters were ploughed by a steamer's keel.

Soon after our arrival the different guards were told off for the silent watches. Night shut
in upon the lake, and all nature slept. The only lights on shore were those of the fire-flies
as they danced through the myrtle boughs. The stars in the heavens twinkled above us. Now and
again an alligator thrust his huge, ugly nose out of the water and yawned, thus disturbing
for the moment its placid surface, which the pale moon illuminated with an ethereal light;
otherwise stillness reigned, or, rather, a calm mysterious peace which was deep and profound.
Somehow, the feeling crept upon us that we had become detached from the world, though yet we
lived. Afterwards, when the tigers [Footnote: Jaguars are invariably called tigers in South
America.] on shore had scented our presence, sleep was often broken by angry roars coming from
the beach, near which we lay at anchor; but before dawn our noisy visitors always departed,
leaving only their footprints. Early next morning, while the green moon was still shining (the
color of this heavenly orb perplexed us, it was a pure bottle green), each one arose to his
work. This was no pleasure excursion, and duties, many and arduous, lay before the explorers.
The hunter sallied forth with his gun, and returned laden with pheasant and mountain hen, and
over his shoulder a fine duck, which, unfortunately, however, had already begun to smell--the
heat was so intense. In his wanderings he had come upon a huge tapir, half eaten by a tiger,
and saw footprints of that lord of the forest in all directions.

Let me here say, that to our hunter we were indebted for many a good dish, and when not after
game he lured from the depths of the lake many a fine perch or turbot. Fishing is an art in
which I am not very skilled, but one evening I borrowed his line. After a few moments' waiting
I had a "bite," and commenced to haul in my catch, which struggled, kicked, and pulled until
I shouted for help. My fish was one of our Paraguayan sailors, who for sport had slipped down
into the water on the other side of the steamer, and, diving to my cord, had grasped it with
both hands. Not every fisher catches a man!

Lake Gaiba is a stretch of water ten miles long, with a narrow mouth opening into the River
Paraguay. The lake is surrounded by mountains, clad in luxuriant verdure on the Bolivian side,
and standing out in bare, rugged lines on the Brazilian side. The boundary of the two countries
cuts the water into two unequal halves. The most prominent of the mountains are now marked
upon the exhaustive chart drawn out. Their christening has been a tardy one, for who can tell
what ages have passed since they first came into being? Looking at Mount Ray, the highest of
these peaks, at sunset, the eye is startled by the strange hues and rich tints there reflected.
Frequently we asked ourselves: "Is that the sun's radiance, or are those rocks the fabled 'Cliffs
of Opal' men have searched for in vain?" We often sat in a wonder of delight gazing at the
scene, until the sun sank out of sight, taking the "opal cliffs" with it, and leaving us only
with the dream.

On the shores of the lake the beach is covered with golden sand and studded with innumerable
little stones, clear as crystal, which scintillate with all the colors of the rainbow. Among
these pebbles I found several arrowheads of jasper. In other parts the primeval forest creeps
down to the very margin, and the tree-roots bathe in the warm waters. Looking across the quivering
heat-haze, the eye rests upon palms of many varieties, and giant trees covered with orchids
and parasites, the sight of which would completely intoxicate the horticulturist. Butterflies,
gorgeous in all the colors of the rainbow, flit from flower to flower; and monkeys, with curiously
human faces, stare at the stranger from the tree-tops. White cotton trees, tamarinds, and strangely
shaped fruits grow everywhere, and round about all are entwined festoons of trailing creepers,
or the loveliest of scarlet mistletoe, in which humming-birds build their nests. Blue macaws,
parrots, and a thousand other birds fly to and fro, and the black fire-bird darts across the
sky, making lightning with every flutter of his wings, which, underneath, are painted a bright,
vivid red. Serpents of all colors and sizes creep silently in the undergrowth, or hang from
the branches of the trees, their emerald eyes ever on the alert; and the broad-winged eagle
soars above all, conscious of his majesty.

Here and there the coast is broken by silent streams flowing into the lake from the unexplored
regions beyond. These riachos are covered with lotus leaves and flowers, and also the Victoria
Regia in all its gorgeous beauty. Papyrusa, reeds and aquatic plants of all descriptions grow
on the banks of the streams, making a home for the white stork or whiter garza. Looking into
the clear warm waters you see little golden and red fishes, and on the bed of the stream shells
of pearl.

On the south side of the Gaiba, at the foot of the mountains, the beach slopes gently down,
and is covered with golden sand, in which crystals sparkle as though set in fine gold by some
cunning workman. A Workman, yes--but not of earth, for nature is here untouched, unspoilt as
yet by man, and the traveller can look right away from it to its Creator.

During our stay in these regions the courses of several of the larger streams were traced for
some distance. On the Brazilian side there was a river up which we steamed. Not being acquainted
with the channel, we had the misfortune to stick for two days on a tosca reef, which extended
a distance of sixty-five feet. [Footnote: The finding of tosca at this point confirms the extent
inland of the ancient Pampean sea.--Colonel Church, in "Proceedings of the Royal Geographical
Society," January, 1902.] During this time, a curious phenomenon presented itself to our notice.
In one day we clearly saw the river flow for six hours to the north-west, and for another six
hours to the south-east. This, of course, proved to us that the river's course depends on the wind.

On the bank, right in front of where we lay, was a gnarled old tree, which seemed to be the
home, or parliament house, of all the paroquets in the neighborhood. Scores of them kept up
an incessant chatter the whole time. In the tree were two or three hanging nests, looking like
large sacks suspended from the boughs. Ten or twenty birds lay in the same nest, and you might
find in them, at the one time, eggs just laid, birds recently hatched, and others ready to
fly. Sitting and rearing go on concurrently. I procured a tame pair of this lovely breed of
paroquets from the Guatos. Their prevailing color was emerald green, while the wings and tail
were made up of tints of orange, scarlet, and blue, and around the back of the bird was a golden
sheen rarely found even in equatorial specimens. Whether the bird is known to ornithologists
or not I cannot tell. One night our camp was pitched near an anthill, inhabited by innumerable
millions of those insects. None of us slept well, for, although our hammocks were slung, as
we thought, away from them, they troubled us much. What was my horror next morning when the
sun, instead of lighting up the rainbow tints of my birds, showed only a black moving mass
of ants! My parrots had literally been eaten alive by them!

But I am wandering on and the ship is still aground on the reef! After much hauling and pulling
and breaking of cables, she at last was got off into deep water. We had not proceeded far,
however, when another shock made the vessel quiver. Were we aground again? No, the steamer
had simply pushed a lazy alligator out of its way, and he resented the insult by a diabolical
scowl at us.

Continuing on our way, we entered another body of hitherto unexplored water, a fairy spot,
covered with floating islands of lotus, anchored with aquatic cables and surrounded by palm
groves. On the shallow, pebbly shore might be seen, here and there, scarlet flamingoes. These
beautiful birds stood on one leg, knee deep, dreaming of their enchanted home. Truly it is
a perfect paradise, but it is almost as inaccessible as the Paradise which we all seek. What
long-lost civilizations have ruled these now deserted solitudes? Penetrate into the dark, dank
forest, as I have done, and ask the question. The only answer is the howling of the monkeys
and the screaming of the cockatoos. You may start when you distinctly hear a bell tolling,
but it is no call to worship in some stately old Inca temple with its golden sun and silver
moon as deities. It is the wonderful bell-bird, which can make itself heard three miles away,
but it is found only where man is not. Ruins of the old Incan and older pre-Incan civilizations
are come across, covered now with dense jungle, but their builders have disappeared. To have
left behind them until this day ruins which rank with the pyramids for extent, and Karnak for
grandeur, proves their intelligence.

The peculiar rasping noise you now hear in the undergrowth has nothing to do with busy civilization--'tis
only the rattlesnake drawing his slimy length among the dead leaves or tangled reeds. No, all
that is past, and this is an old new world indeed, and romance must not rob you of self possession,
for the rattle means that in the encounter either he dies--or you.

Meanwhile the work on shore progressed. Paths were cut in different directions and the wonders
of nature laid bare. The ring of the axe and the sound of falling trees marked the commencement
of civilization in those far-off regions. Ever and anon a loud report rang out from the woods,
for it might almost be said that the men worked with the axe in one hand and a rifle in the
other. Once they started a giant tapir taking his afternoon snooze. The beast lazily got up
and made off, but not before he had turned his piercing eyes on the intruders, as though wondering
what new animals they were. Surely this was his first sight of the "lords of creation," and
probably his last, for a bullet quickly whizzed after him. Another day the men shot a puma
searching for its prey, and numerous were the birds, beasts and reptiles that fell before our
arms. The very venomous jaracucu, a snake eight to twelve feet long, having a double row of
teeth in each jaw, is quite common here.

The forests are full of birds and beasts in infinite variety, as also of those creatures which
seem neither bird nor beast. There are large black howling monkeys, and little black-faced
ones with prehensile tails, by means of which they swing in mid-air or jump from tree to tree
in sheer lightness of heart. There is also the sloth, which, as its name implies, is painfully
deliberate in its motions. Were I a Scotchman I should say that "I dinna think that in a' nature
there is a mair curiouser cratur." This latter state may also aptly describe the condition
of the traveller in those regions; for man, brave though he may be, does not relish a vis-a-vis
with the enormous anaconda, also to be seen there at most inconvenient times. I was able to
procure the skins of two of these giant serpents.

The leader of the "forest gang," a Paraguayan, wore round his neck a cotton scapular bought
from the priest before he started on the expedition. This was supposed to save him from all
dangers, seen and unseen. Poor man, he was a good Roman Catholic, and often counted his beads,
but he was an inveterate liar and thief.

Taking into consideration the wild country, and the adventurous mission which had brought us
together, our men were not at all a bad class. One of them, however, a black Brazilian, used
to boast at times that he had killed his father while he slept. In the quiet of the evening
hour he would relate the story with unnatural gusto.

We generally slept on the deck of the steamer, each under a thin netting, while the millions
of mosquitos buzzed outside--and inside when they could steal a march. Mosquitos? Why "mosquitos
a la Paris" was one of the items on our menu one day. The course was not altogether an imaginary
one either. Having the good fortune to possess candles, I used sometimes to read under my gauzy
canopy. This would soon become so black with insects of all descriptions as to shut out from
my sight the outside world.

After carefully surveying the Bolivian shore, we fixed upon a site for the future port and
town. [Footnote: The latitude of Port Quijarro is 17  47' 35", and the longitude, west of Greenwich,
57  44' 38". Height above the sea, 558 feet.] Planting a hugh palm in the ground, with a long
bamboo nailed to the crown, we then solemnly unfurled the Bolivian flag. This had been made
expressly for the expedition by the hands of Senora Quijarro, wife of the Bolivian minister
residing in Buenos Ayres. As the sun for the first time shone upon the brilliant colors of
the flag, nature's stillness was broken by a good old English hurrah, while the hunter and
several others discharged their arms in the air, until the parrots and monkeys in the neighborhood
must have wondered (or is wondering only reserved for civilized man?) what new thing had come
to pass. There we, a small company of men in nature's solitudes, each signed his name to the
Act of Foundation of a town, which in all probability will mean a new era for Bolivia. We fully
demonstrated the fact that Puerto Quijarro will be an ideal port, through which the whole commerce
of south-eastern Bolivia can to advantage pass.

Next day the Secretary drew out four copies of this Act. One was for His Excellency General
Pando, President of the Bolivian Republic; another for the Mayor of Holy Cross, the nearest
Bolivian town, 350 miles distant; a third for Senor Quijarro; while the fourth was enclosed
in a stone bottle and buried at the foot of the flagstaff, there to await the erection of the
first building. Thus a commencement has been made; the lake and shores are now explored. The
work has been thoroughly done, and the sweat of the brow was not stinted, for the birds of
the air hovered around the theodolite, even on the top of the highest adjacent mountain. [Footnote:
The opening of the country must, from its geographical situation, be productive of political
consequences of the first magnitude to South America.-- Report of the Royal Geographical Society,
January, 1902.]

At last, this work over and an exhaustive chart of the lake drawn up, tools and tents collected,
specimens of soil, stones, iron, etc., packed and labelled, we prepared for departure.

The weather had been exceptionally warm and we had all suffered much from the sun's vertical
rays, but towards the end of our stay the heat was sweltering--killing! The sun was not confined
to one spot in the heavens, as in more temperate climes; here he filled all the sky, and he
scorched us pitilessly! Only at early morning, when the eastern sky blushed with warm gold
and rose tints, or at even, when the great liquid ball of fire dropped behind the distant violet-
colored hills, could you locate him. Does the Indian worship this awful majesty out of fear,
as the Chinaman worships the devil?

Next morning dawned still and portentous. Not a zephyr breeze stirred the leaves of the trees.
The sweltering heat turned to a suffocating one. As the morning dragged on we found it more
and more difficult to breathe; there seemed to be nothing to inflate our lungs. By afternoon
we stared helplessly at each other and gasped as we lay simmering on the deck. Were we to be
asphyxiated there after all? I had known as many as two hundred a day to die in one South American
city from this cause. Surely mortal men never went through such awful, airless heat as this
and lived. We had been permitted to discover the lake, and if the world heard of our death,
would that flippant remark be used again, as with previous explorers, "To make omelettes eggs
must be broken"?

However, we were not to melt. Towards evening the barometer, which had been falling all day,
went lower and lower. All creation was still. Not a sound broke the awful quiet; only in our
ears there seemed to be an unnatural singing which was painful, and we closed our eyes in weariness,
for the sun seemed to have blistered the very eyeballs. When we mustered up sufficient energy
to turn our aching eyes to the heavens, we saw black storm-clouds piling themselves one above
another, and hope, which "springs eternal in the human breast," saw in them our hope, our salvation.

The fall of the barometer, and the howling of the monkeys on shore also, warned us of the approaching
tempest, so we prepared for emergencies by securing the vessel fore and aft under the lee of
a rugged sierra before the storm broke--and break it did in all its might.

Suddenly the wind swept down upon us with irresistible fury, and we breathed--we lived again.
So terrific was the sweep that giant trees, which had braved a century's storms, fell to the
earth with a crash. The hurricane was truly fearful. Soon the waters of the lake were lashed
into foam. Great drops of rain fell in blinding torrents, and every fresh roll of thunder seemed
to make the mountains tremble, while the lightning cleft asunder giant trees at one mighty stroke.

In the old legends of the Inca, read on the "Quipus," we find that Pachacamac and Viracocha,
the highest gods, placed in the heavens "Nusta," a royal princess, armed with a pitcher of
water, which she was to pour over the earth whenever it was needed. When the rain was accompanied
by thunder, lightning, and wind, the Indians believed that the maiden's royal brother was teasing
her, and trying to wrest the pitcher from her hand. Nusta must indeed have been fearfully teased
that night, for the lightning of her eyes shot athwart the heavens and the sky was rent in flame.

Often in those latitudes no rain falls for long months, but when once the clouds open the earth
is deluged! Weeks pass, and the zephyr breezes scarcely move the leaves of the trees, but in
those days of calm the wind stores up his forces for a mighty storm. On this dark, fearful
night he blew his fiercest blasts. The wild beast was affrighted from his lair and rushed down
with a moan, or the mountain eagle screamed out a wail, indistinctly heard through the moaning
sounds. During the whole night, which was black as wickedness, the wind howled in mournful
cadence, or went sobbing along the sand. As the hours wore on we seemed to hear, in every shriek
of the blast, the strange tongue of some long-departed Indian brave, wailing for his happy
hunting-grounds, now invaded by the paleface. Coats and rugs, that had not for many months
been unpacked, were brought out, only in some cases to be blown from us, for the wind seemed
to try his hardest to impede our departure. The rain soaked us through and through. Mists rose
from the earth, and mists came down from above. Next morning the whole face of nature was changed.

After the violence of the tempest abated we cast off the ropes and turned the prow of our little
vessel civilizationward. When we entered the lake the great golden sun gave us a warm welcome,
now, at our farewell, he refused to shine. The rainy season had commenced, but, fortunately
for us, after the work of exploration was done. This weather continued--day after day clouds
and rain. Down the rugged, time-worn face of the mountains foaming streams rushed and poured,
and this was our last view--a good-bye of copious tears! Thus we saw the lake in sunshine and
storm, in light and darkness. It had been our aim and ambition to reach it, and we rejoiced
in its discovery. Remembering that "we were the first who ever burst into that silent sea,"
we seemed to form part of it, and its varying moods only endeared it to us the more.

CHAPTER VII.

PIEDRA BLANCA.

In due time we again reached Piedra Blanca, and, notwithstanding our ragged, thorn-torn garments,
felt we were once more joined on to the world.

The bubonic plague had broken out farther down the country, steamboats were at a standstill,
so we had to wait a passage down the river. Piedra Blanca is an interesting little spot. One
evening a tired mule brought in the postman from the next town, Holy Joseph. He had been eight
days on the journey. Another evening a string of dusty mules arrived, bringing loads of rubber
and cocoa. They had been five months on the way.

When the Chiquitana women go down to the bay for water, with their pitchers poised on their
heads, the sight is very picturesque. Sometimes a little boy will step into one of the giant,
traylike leaves of the Victoria Regia, which, thus transformed into a fairy boat, he will paddle
about the quiet bay.

The village is built on the edge of the virgin forest, where the red man, with his stone hatchet,
wanders in wild freedom. It contains, perhaps, a hundred inhabitants, chiefly civilized Chiquitanos
Indians. There is here a customs house, and a regular trade in rubber, which is brought in
from the interior on mule-back, a journey which often takes from three to four months.

One evening during our stay two men were forcibly brought into the village, having been caught
in the act of killing a cow which they had stolen. These men were immediately thrown into the
prison, a small, dark, palm-built hut. Next morning, ere the sun arose, their feet were thrust
into the stocks, and a man armed with a long hide whip thrashed them until the blood flowed
in streamlets down their bare backs! What struck us as being delicately thoughtful was that
while the whipping proceeded another official tried his best to drown their piercing shrieks
by blowing an old trumpet at its highest pitch!

The women, although boasting only one loose white garment, walk with the air and grace of queens,
or as though pure Inca blood ran in their veins. Their only adornment is a necklace of red
corals and a few inches of red or blue ribbon entwined in their long raven-black hair, which
hangs down to the waist in two plaits. Their houses are palm-walled, with a roof of palm-leaves,
through which the rain pours and the sun shines. Their chairs are logs of wood, and their beds
are string hammocks. Their wants are few, as there are no electric- lighted store windows to
tempt them. Let us leave them in their primitive simplicity. Their little, delicately-shaped
feet are prettier without shoes and stockings, and their plaited hair without Parisian hats
and European tinsel. They neither read nor write, and therefore cannot discuss politics. Women's
rights they have never heard of. Their bright-eyed, naked little children play in the mud or
dust round the house, and the sun turns their already bronze-colored bodies into a darker tint;
but the Chiquitana woman has never seen a white baby, and knows nothing of its beauty, so is
more than satisfied with her own. The Indian child does not suffer from teething, for all have
a small wooden image tied round the neck, and the little one, because of this, is supposed
to be saved from all baby ailments! Their husbands and sons leave them for months while they
go into the interior for rubber or cocoa, and when one comes back, riding on his bullock or
mule, he is affectionately but silently received. The Chiquitano seldom speaks, and in this
respect he is utterly unlike the Brazilian. The women differ from our mothers and sisters and
wives, for they (the Chiquitanas) have nothing to say. After all, ours are best, and a headache
is often preferable to companioning with the dumb. I unhesitatingly say, give me the music,
even if I have to suffer the consequences.

The waiting-time was employed by our hunter in his favorite sport. One day he shot a huge alligator
which was disporting itself in the water some five hundred yards from the shore. Taking a strong
rope, we went out in an Indian dug-out to tow it to land. As my friend was the more dexterous
in the use of the paddle, he managed the canoe, and I, with much difficulty, fixed the rope
by a noose to the monster's tail. When the towing, however, commenced, the beast seemed to
regain his life. He dived and struggled for freedom until the water was lashed into foam. He
thrust his mighty head out of the water and opened his jaws as though warning us he could crush
the frail dug-out with one snap. Being anxious to obtain his hide, and momentarily expecting
his death, for he was mortally wounded, I held on to the rope with grim persistency. He dived
under the boat and lifted it high, but as his ugly nose came out on the other side the canoe
regained its position in the water. He then commenced to tow us, but, refusing to obey the
helm, took us to all points of the compass. After an exciting cruise the alligator gave a deep
dive and the rope broke, giving him his liberty again. On leaving us he gave what Waterton
describes as "a long-suppressed, shuddering sigh, so loud and so peculiar that it can be heard
a mile." The bullet had entered the alligator's head, but next morning we saw he was still
alive and able to "paddle his own canoe." The reader may be surprised to learn that these repulsive
reptiles lay an egg with a pure white shell, fair to look upon, and that the egg is no larger
than a hen's.

One day I was called to see a dead man for whom a kind of wake was being held. He was lying
in state in a grass-built hovel, and raised up from the mud floor on two packing-cases of suspiciously
British origin. His hard Indian face was softened in death, but the observant eye could trace
a stoical resignation in the features. Several men and women were sitting around the corpse
counting their beads and drinking native spirits, with a dim, hazy belief that that was the
right thing to do. They had given up their own heathen customs, and, being civilized, must,
of course, be Roman Catholics. They were "reduced," as Holy Mother Church calls it, long ago,
and, of course, believe that civilization and Roman Catholicism are synonymous terms. Poor
souls! How they stared and wondered when they that morning heard for the first time the story
of Jesus, who tasted death for us that we might live. To those in the home lands this is an
old story, but do they who preach it or listen to it realize that to millions it is still the
newest thing under the sun?

Next day the man was quietly carried away to the little forest clearing reserved for the departed,
where a few wooden crosses lift their heads among the tangled growth. Some of these crosses
have four rudely carved letters on them, which you decipher as I. N. R. I. The Indian cannot
tell you their meaning, but he knows they have something to do with his new religion.

As far as I could ascertain, the departed had no relatives. One after another had been taken
from him, and now he had gone, for "when he is forsaken, withered and shaken, what can an old
man do but die?"--it is the end of all flesh. Poor man! Had he been able to retain even a spark
of life until Holy Week, he might then have been saved from purgatory. Rome teaches that on
two days in the year--Holy Thursday and Corpus Christi--the gates of heaven are unguarded,
because, they say, God is dead. All people who die on those days go straight to heaven, however
bad they may have been! At no other time is that gate open, and every soul must pass through
the torments of purgatory.

A missionary in Oruru wrote: "The Thursday and Friday of so-called Holy Week, when Christ's
image lay in a coffin and was carried through the streets, God being dead, was the time for
robberies, and some one came to steal from us, but only got about fifty dollars' worth of building
material. Holy Week terminates with the 'Saturday of Glory,' when spirits are drunk till there
is not a dram left in the drink-shops, which frequently bear such names as 'The Saviour of
the World,' 'The Grace of God,' 'The Fountain of Our Lady,' etc. The poor deluded Romanists
have a holiday on that day over the tragic end of Judas. A life-size representation of the
betrayer is suspended high in the air in front of the cafes. At ten a.m. the church bells begin
to ring, and this is the signal for lighting the fuse. Then, with a flash and a bang, every
vestige of the effigy has disappeared! At night, if the town is large enough to afford a theatre,
the crowds wend their way thither. This place of very questionable amusement will often bear
the high-sounding name, Theatre of the Holy Ghost!"

There is no church or priest in the village of Piedra Blanca. Down on the beach there is a
church bell, which the visitor concludes is a start in that direction, but he is told that
it is destined for the town of Santa Cruz de la Sierra, three hundred miles inland. The bell
was a present to the church by some pious devotee, but the money donated did not provide for
its removal inland. This cost the priests refuse to pay, and the Chiquitanos equally refuse
to transport it free. There is no resident priest to make them, so there it stays. In the meantime
the bell is slung up on three poles. It was solemnly beaten with a stick on Christmas Eve to
commemorate the time when the "Mother of Heaven" gave birth to her child Jesus. In one of the
principal houses of the village the scene was most vividly reproduced. A small arbor was screened
off by palm leaves, in which were hung little colored candles. Angels of paper were suspended
from the roof, that they might appear to be bending over the Virgin, which was a highly-colored
fashion-plate cut from a Parisian journal that somehow had found its way there. The child Jesus
appeared to be a Mellin's Food-fed infant. Round this fairy scene the youth and beauty of the
place danced and drank liberal potations of chicha, the Bolivian spirits, until far on into
morning, when all retired to their hammocks to dream of their goddess and her lovely babe.

After this paper Virgin the next most prominent object of worship I saw in Piedra Blanca was
a saint with a dress of vegetable fibre, long hair that had once adorned a horse's tail, and
eyes of pieces of clamshell.

Poor, dark Bolivia! It would be almost an impossible thing to exaggerate the low state of religion
there. A communication from Sucre reads: "The owners of images of Jesus as a child have been
getting masses said for their figures. A band of music is employed, and from the church to
the house a procession is formed. A scene of intoxication follows, which only ends when a good
number lie drunk before the image--the greater the number the greater the honor to the image?"
The peddler of chicha carries around a large stone jar, about a yard in depth. The payment
for every drink sold is dropped into the jar of liquor, so the last customers get the most
"tasty" decoction.

Naturally the masses like a religion of license, and are as eager as the priests to uphold
it. Read a tale of the persecution of a nineteenth century missionary there. Mr. Payne in graphic
language tells the story:

"Excommunication was issued. To attend a meeting was special sin, and only pardoned by going
on the knees to the bishop. Sermons against us were preached in all the churches. I was accused
before the Criminal Court. It was said I carried with me the 'special presence' of the devil,
and had blasphemed the Blessed Virgin, and everyone passing should say: 'Maria, Joseph.' One
day a crowd collected, and sacristans mixed with the multitude, urging them on to 'vengeance
on the Protestants.' About two p.m. we heard the roar of furious thousands, and like a river
let loose they rushed down on our house. Paving-stones were quickly torn up, and before the
police arrived windows and doors were smashed, and about a thousand voices were crying for
blood. We cried to the Lord, not expecting to live much longer. The Chief of Police and his
men were swept away before the mob, and now the door burst in before the huge stones and force
used. There were two parties, one for murder and one for robbery. I was beaten and dragged
about, while the cry went up, 'Death to the Protestant!' The fire was blazing outside, as they
had lots of kerosene, and with all the forms, chairs, texts, clothes and books the street was
a veritable bonfire. Everything they could lay hands on was taken. At this moment the cry arose
that the soldiers were coming, and a cavalry regiment charged down the street, carrying fear
into the hearts of the people. A second charge cleared the street, and several soldiers rode
into the patio slashing with their swords."

In this riot the missionary had goods to the value of one thousand dollars burnt, and was himself
hauled before the magistrates and, after a lengthy trial, condemned to die for heresy!

Baronius, a Roman Catholic writer, says: "The ministry of Peter is twofold--to feed and to
kill; for the Lord said, 'Feed My sheep,' and he also heard a voice from heaven saying, 'Kill
and eat.'" Bellarmine argues for the necessity of burning heretics. He says: "Experience teaches
that there is no other remedy, for the Church has proceeded by slow steps, and tried all remedies.
First, she only excommunicated. Then she added a fine of money, and afterwards exile. Lastly
she was compelled to come to the punishment of death. If you threaten a fine of money, they
neither fear God nor regard men, knowing that fools will not be wanting to believe in them,
and by whom they may be sustained. If you shut them in prison, or send them into exile, they
corrupt those near to them with their words, and those at a distance with their books. Therefore,
the only remedy is to send them betimes into their own place."

As this mediaeval sentence against Mr. Payne could hardly be carried out in the nineteenth
century, he was liberated, but had to leave the country. He settled in another part of the
Republic. In a letter from him now before me as I write he says: "The priests are circulating
all manner of lies, telling the people that we keep images of the Virgin in order to scourge
them every night. At Colquechaca we were threatened with burning, as it was rumored that our
object was to do away with the Roman Catholic religion, which would mean a falling off in the
opportunities for drunkenness." So we see he is still persecuted.

The Rev. A. G. Baker, of the Canadian Baptist Mission, wrote: "The Bishop of La Paz has sent
a letter to the Minister of Public Worship of which the following is the substance: 'It is
necessary for me to call attention to the Protestant meetings being held in this city, which
cause scandal and alarm throughout the whole district, and which are contrary to the law of
Bolivia. Moreover, it is indispensable that we prevent the sad results which must follow such
teachings, so contrary to the true religion. On the other hand, if this is not stopped, we
shall see a repetition of the scenes that recently took place in Cochabamba.'" [Footnote: Referring
to the sacking and burning of Mr. Payne's possessions previously referred to.]

Bolivia was one of the last of the Republics to hold out against "liberty of worship," but
in 1907 this was at last declared. Great efforts were made that this law should not be passed.

In my lectures on this continent I have invariably stated that in South America the priest
is the real ruler of the country. I append a recent despatch from Washington, which is an account
of a massacre of revolutionary soldiers, under most revolting circumstances, committed at the
instigation of the ecclesiastical authorities: "The Department of State has been informed by
the United States Minister at La Paz, Bolivia, that Col. Pando sent 120 men to Ayopaya. On
arriving at the town of Mohoza, the commander demanded a loan of two hundred dollars from the
priest of the town, and one hundred dollars from the mayor. These demands being refused, the
priest and the mayor were imprisoned. Meanwhile, however, the priest had despatched couriers
to the Indian village, asking that the natives attack Pando's men. A large crowd of Indians
came, and, in spite of all measures taken to pacify them, the arms of the soldiers were taken
away, the men subjected to revolting treatment, and finally locked inside the church for the
night. In the morning the priest, after celebrating the so-called 'mass of agony,' allowed
the Indians to take out the unfortunate victims, two by two, and 103 were deliberately murdered,
each pair by different tortures. Seventeen escaped death by having departed the day previous
on another mission."

After Gen. Pando was elected President of the Republic of Bolivia, priestly rule remained as
strong as ever. To enter on and retain his office he must perforce submit to Church authority.
When in his employ, however, I openly declared myself a Protestant missionary; and, because
of exploration work, was made a Bolivian citizen.

In 1897 it was my great joy to preach the gospel in Ensenada. Many and attentive were the listeners
as for the first time in their lives they were told of the Man of Calvary who died that they
might live. With exclamations of wonder they sometimes said: "What fortunate people we are
to have heard such words!" Four men and five women were born again. Ensenada, built on a malarial
swamp, was reeking with miasma, and the houses were raised on posts about a yard above the
slime. I was in consequence stricken with malarial fever. One day a man who had attended the
meetings came into my room, and, kneeling down, asked the Lord not to let me suffer, but to
take me quickly. After long weeks of illness, God, however, raised me up again, and the meetings
were resumed, when the reason of the priest's non- interference was made known to me. He had
been away on a long vacation, and, on his return, hearing of my services, he ordered the church
bells rung furiously. On my making enquiries why the bells clanged so, I was informed that
a special service was called in the church. At that service a special text was certainly taken,
for I was the text. During the course of the sermon, the preacher in his fervid eloquence even
forbade the people to look at me. After that my residence in the town was most difficult. The
barber would not cut my hair, nor would the butcher sell me his meat, and I have gone into
stores with the money ostentatiously showing in my hand only to hear the word, "Afuera!" (Get
out!) When I appeared on the street I was pelted with stones by the men, while the women ran
away from me with covered faces! It was now a sin to look at me!

I reopened the little hall, however, for public services. It had been badly used and was splashed
with mud and filth. The first night men came to the meetings in crowds just to disturb, and
one of these shot at me, but the bullet only pierced the wall behind. A policeman marched in
and bade me accompany him to the police station, and on the way thither I was severely hurt
by missiles which were thrown at me. An official there severely reprimanded me for thus disturbing
the quiet town, and I was ushered in before the judge. That dignified gentleman questioned
me as to the object of my meetings. Respectfully answering, I said: "To tell the people how
they can be saved from sin." Then, as briefly as possible, I unfolded my mission. The man's
countenance changed. Surely my words were to him an idle tale--he knew them not. After cautioning
me not to repeat the offence, he gave me my liberty, but requested me to leave the town. Rev.
F. Penzotti, of the B. & F. B. Society, was imprisoned in a dungeon for eight long months,
so I was grateful for deliverance.

An acquaintance who was eye-witness to the scene, though himself not a Christian, tells the
following sad story:

"Away near the foot of the great Andes, nestling quietly in a fertile valley, shut away, one
would think, from all the world beyond, lay the village of E---. The inhabitants were a quiet,
home-loving people, who took life as they found it, and as long as they had food for their
mouths and clothes for their backs, cared little for anything else. One matter, however, had
for some little time been troubling them, viz., the confession of their sins to a priest. After
due consideration, it was decided to ask Father A., living some seventeen leagues distant,
to state the lowest sum for which he would come to receive their confessions. 'One hundred
dollars,' he replied, 'is the lowest I can accept, and as soon as you send it I will come.'

"After a great effort, for they were very poor, forty dollars was raised amongst them, and
word was sent to Father A. that they could not possibly collect any more. Would he take pity
on them and accept that sum? 'What! only forty dollars in the whole of E---,' was his reply,
'and you dare to offer me that! No! I will not come, and, furthermore, from this day I pronounce
a curse on your village, and every living person and thing there. Your children will all sicken
and die, your cattle all become covered with disease, and you will know no comfort nor happiness
henceforth. I, Father A., have said it, and it will come to pass.'

"Where was the quiet, peaceful scene of a few weeks before? Gone, and in its place all terror
and confusion. These ignorant people, believing the words of the priest, gathered together
their belongings and fled. As I saw those poor, simple people leaving the homes which had sheltered
them for years, as well as their ancestors before them, and with feverish haste hurrying down
the valley--every few minutes looking back, with intense sorrow and regret stamped on their
faces-- I thought surely these people need some one to tell them of Jesus, for, little as I
know about Him, I am convinced that He does not wish them to be treated thus."

The priest is satisfied with nothing less than the most complete submission of the mind and
body of his flock. A woman must often give her last money for masses, and a man toil for months
on the well- stocked land of the divine father to save his soul. If he fail to do this, or
any other sentence the priest may impose, he is condemned to eternal perdition.

Mr. Patrick, of the R. B. M. U., has described to me how, soon after he landed in Trujilla,
he attended service at a Jesuit church. He had introduced some gospels into the city, and a
special sermon was preached against the Bible. During the service the priest produced one of
the gospels, and, holding it by the covers, solemnly put the leaves into the burning candle
by his side, and then stamped on the ashes on the pulpit floor. The same priest, however, Ricardo
Gonzales by name, thought it no wrong to have seventeen children to various mothers, and his
daughters were leaders in society. "Men love darkness rather than light because their deeds
are evil." In Trujilla, right opposite my friend's house, there lived, at the same time, a
highly respected priest, who had, with his own hands, lit the fire that burnt alive a young
woman who had embraced Christianity through missionary preaching. Bear in mind, reader, I am
not writing of the dark ages, but of what occurred just outside Trujilla during my residence
in the country. Even in 1910, Missionary Chapman writes of a convert having his feet put in
the stocks for daring to distribute God's Word. [Footnote: I never saw greater darkness excepting
in Central Africa. I visited 70 of the largest cathedrals, and, after diligent enquiry, found
only one Bible, and that a Protestant Bible about to be burned--Dr. Robert E. Speer, in "Missionary
Review of the World," August, 1911.]

Up to four years ago, the statute was in force that "Every one who directly or through any
act conspires to establish in Bolivia any other religion than that which the republic professes,
namely, that of the Roman Catholic Apostolic Church, is a traitor, and shall suffer the penalty
of death."

After a week's stay in Piedra Blanca, during which I had ample time for such comparisons as
these I have penned, quarantine lifted, and the expedition staff separated. I departed on horseback
to inspect a tract of land on another frontier of Bolivia 1,300 miles distant.

PART III.

PARAGUAY

  "I need not follow the beaten path;
  I do not hunt for any path;
  I will go where there is no path,
  And leave a trail."

PARAGUAY

Paraguay, though one of the most isolated republics of South America, is one of the oldest.
A hundred years before the "Mayflower" sailed from old Plymouth there was a permanent settlement
of Spaniards near the present capital. The country has 98,000 square miles of territory, but
a population of only 800,000. Paraguay may almost be called an Indian republic, for the traveller
hears nothing but the soft Guarani language spoken all over the country. It is in this republic
that the yerba mate grows. That is the chief article of commerce, for at least fifteen millions
of South Americans drink this tea, already frequently referred to. Thousands of tons of the
best oranges are grown, and its orange groves are world-famed.

The old capital, founded in 1537, was built without regularity of plan, but the present city,
owing to the despotic sway of Francia, is most symmetrical. That South American Nero issued
orders for all houses that were out of his lines to be demolished by their owners. "One poor
man applied to know what remuneration he was to have, and the dictator's answer was: 'A lodgment
gratis in the public prison.' Another asked where he was to go, and the answer was, 'To a state
dungeon.' Both culprits were forthwith lodged in their respective new residences, and their
houses were levelled to the ground."

"Such was the terror inspired by the man that the news that he was out would clear the streets.
A white Paraguayan dared not utter his name. During his lifetime he was 'El Supremo,' and after
he was dead for generations he was referred to simply as 'El Difunto.'" [Footnote: Robertson's
"Reign of Terror."]

Paraguay, of all countries, has been most under the teaching of the Jesuit priest, and the
people in consequence are found to be the most superstitious. Being an inland republic, its
nearest point a thousand miles from the sea-coast, it has been held in undisputed possession.

Here was waged between 1862 and 1870 what history describes as the most annihilating war since
Carthage fell. The little republic, standing out for five and a half years against five other
republics, fought with true Indian bravery and recklessness, until for every man in the country
there could be numbered nine women (some authorities say eleven); and this notwithstanding
the fact that the women in thousands carried arms and fought side by side with the men. The
dictator Lopez, who had with such determination of purpose held out so long, was finally killed,
and his last words, "Muero con la patria" (I die with the country) were truly prophetic, for
the country has never risen since.

Travellers agree in affirming that of all South Americans the Paraguayans are the most mild-mannered
and lethargic; yet when these people are once aroused they fight with tigerish pertinacity.
The pages of history may be searched in vain for examples of warfare waged at such odds; but
the result is invariably the same, the weaker nation, whether right or wrong, goes under. Although
the national mottoes vary with the different flags, yet the Chilian is the most universally
followed in South America, as elsewhere: "Por la razon o la fuerza" (By right or by might).
The Paraguayans contended heroically for what they considered their rights, and such bloody
battles were fought that at Curupaita alone 5,000 dead and dying were left on the field! Added
to the carnage of battle was disease on every hand. The worst epidemic of smallpox ever known
in the annals of history was when the Brazilians lost 43,000 men, while this war was being
waged against Paraguay. One hundred thousand bodies were left unburied, and on them the wild
animals and vultures gorged themselves. The saying now is a household word, that the jaguar
of those lands is the most to be dreaded, through having tasted so much human blood.

"Lopez, the cause of all this sacrifice and misery, has gone to his final account, his soul
stained with the blood of seven hundred thousand of his people, the victims of his ambition
and cruelty."

Towns which flourished before the outbreak of hostilities were sacked by the emboldened Indians
from the Chaco and wiped off the map, San Salvador (Holy Saviour) being a striking example.
I visited the ruins of this town, where formerly dwelt about 8,000 souls. Now the streets are
grass-grown, and the forest is creeping around church and barracks, threatening to bury them.
I rode my horse through the high portal of the cannon-battered church, while the stillness
of the scene reminded me of a city of the dead. City of the dead, truly--men and women and
children who have passed on! My horse nibbled the grass growing among the broken tiles of the
floor, while I, in imagination, listened to the "passing bell" in the tower above me, and under
whose shade I sought repose. A traveller, describing this site, says: "It is a place of which
the atmosphere is one great mass of malaria, and the heat suffocating--where the surrounding
country is an uninterrupted marsh--where venomous insects and reptiles abound." San Salvador
as a busy mart has ceased to exist, and the nearest approach to "the human form divine," found
occasionally within its walls, is the howling monkey. Such are the consequences of war! During
the last ten years Paraguay has been slowly recovering from the terrible effects of this war,
but a republic composed mostly of women is severely handicapped. [Footnote: Would the suffragettes
disagree with the writer here?]

Paraguay is a poor land; the value of its paper currency, like that of most South American
countries, fluctuates almost daily. In 1899 the dollar was worth only twelve cents, and for
five gold dollars I have received in exchange as many as forty-six of theirs. Yet there is
a great future for Paraguay. It has been called the Paradise of South America, and although
the writer has visited sixteen different countries of the world, he thinks of Paraguay with
tender longing. It is perhaps the richest land on earth naturally, and produces so much mate
that one year's production would make a cup of tea for every man, woman and child on the globe.
Oranges and bananas can be bought at six cents a hundred, two millions of cattle fatten on
its rich pasture lands; but, of all the countries the writer has travelled in, Mexico comes
first as a land of beggars, and poor Paraguay comes second.

CHAPTER VIII.

ASUNCION.

Being in England in 1900 for change and rest, I was introduced to an eccentric old gentleman
of miserly tendencies, but possessed of $5,000,000. Hearing of my wanderings in South America,
he told me that he owned a tract of land thirteen miles square in Paraguay, and would like
to know something of its value. The outcome of this visit was that I was commissioned by him
to go to that country and explore his possession, so I proceeded once more to my old field
of labor. Arriving at the mouth of the River Plate, after five weeks of sea- tossing, I was,
with the rest, looking forward to our arrival in Buenos Ayres, when a steam tug came puffing
alongside, and we were informed that as the ship had touched at the infected port of Bahia,
all passengers must be fumigated, and that we must submit to three weeks' quarantine on Flores
Island. The Port doctor has sent a whole ship-load to the island for so trifling a cause as
that a sailor had a broken collar-bone, so we knew that for us there was nothing but submission.
Disembarking from the ocean steamer on to lighters, we gave a last look at the coveted land,
"so near and yet so far," and were towed away to three small islands in the centre of the river,
about fifty miles distant. One island is set apart as a burial ground, one is for infected
patients, and the other, at which we were landed, is for suspects. On that desert island, with
no other land in sight than the sister isles, we were given time to chew the cud of bitter
reflection. They gave us little else to chew! The food served up to us consisted of strings
of dried beef, called charqui, which was brought from the mainland in dirty canvas bags. This
was often supplemented by boiled seaweed. Being accustomed to self- preservation, I was able
to augment this diet with fish caught while sitting on the barren rocks of our sea-girt prison.
Prison it certainly was, for sentries, armed with Remingtons, herded us like sheep.

The three weeks' detention came to an end, as everything earthly does, and then an open barge,
towed by a steam-launch, conveyed us to Montevideo. Quite a fresh breeze was blowing, and during
our eleven hours' journey we were repeatedly drenched with spray. Delicate ladies lay down
in the bottom of the boat in the throes of seasickness, and were literally washed to and fro,
and saturated, as they said, to the heart. We landed, however, and I took passage up to Asuncion
in the "Olympo."

The "Olympo" is a palatial steamer, fitted up like the best Atlantic liners with every luxury
and convenience. On the ship there were perhaps one hundred cabin passengers, and in the steerage
were six hundred Russian emigrants bound for Corrientes, three days' sail north. Two of these
women were very sick, so the chief steward, to whom I was known, hurried me to them, and I
was thankful to be able to help the poor females.

The majestic river is broad, and in some parts so thickly studded with islands that it appears
more like a chain of lakes than a flowing stream. As we proceeded up the river the weather
grew warmer, and the native clothing of sheepskins the Russians had used was cast aside. The
men, rough and bearded, soon had only their under garments on, and the women wore simply that
three-quarter length loose garment well known to all females, yet they sweltered in the unaccustomed
heat.

At midnight of the third day we landed them at Corrientes, and the women, in their white (?)
garments, with their babies and ikons, and bundles--and husbands--trod on terra firma for the
first time in seven weeks.

After about twelve days' sail we came to Bella Vista, at which point the river is eighteen
miles wide. Sixteen days after leaving the mouth of the river, we sighted the red-tiled roofs
of the houses at Asuncion, the capital of Paraguay, built on the bank of the river, which is
there only a mile wide, but thirty feet deep. The river boats land their passengers at a rickety
wooden wharf, and Indians carry the baggage on their heads into the dingy customs house. After
this has been inspected by the cigarette-smoking officials, the dark- skinned porters are clamorously
eager to again bend themselves under the burden and take your trunks to an hotel, where you
follow, walking over the exceedingly rough cobbled streets. There is not a cab for hire in
the whole city. The two or three hotels are fifth- rate, but charge only about thirty cents a day.

Asuncion is a city of some 30,000 inhabitants Owing to its isolated position, a thousand miles
from the sea-coast, it is perhaps the most backward of all the South American capitals. Although
under Spanish rule for three hundred years, the natives still retain the old Indian language
and the Guarani idiom is spoken by all.

The city is lit up at night with small lamps burning oil, and these lights shed fitful gleams
here and there. The oil burned bears the high-sounding trade-mark, "Light of the World," and
that is the only "light of the world" the native knows of. The lamps are of so little use that
females never dream of going out at night without carrying with them a little tin farol, with
a tallow dip burning inside.

I have said the street lamps give little light. I must make exception of one week of the year,
when there is great improvement. That week they are carefully cleaned and trimmed, for it is
given up as a feast to the Virgin, and the lights are to shed radiance on gaudy little images
of that august lady which are inside of each lamp. The Pal, or father priest, sees that these
images are properly honored by the people. He is here as elsewhere, the moving spirit.

San Bias is the patron saint of the country, It is said he won for the Paraguayans a great
victory in an early war. St. Cristobel receives much homage also because he helped the Virgin
Mary to carry the infant Jesus across a river on the way to Egypt.

Asuncion was for many years the recluse headquarters of the Jesuits, so of all enslaved Spanish-Americans
probably the Guaranis are the worst. During Lent they will inflict stripes on their bodies,
or almost starve themselves to death; and their abject humility to the Pai is sad to witness.
On special church celebrations large processions will walk the streets, headed by the priests,
chanting in Latin. The people sometimes fall over one another in their eager endeavors to kiss
the priest's garments, They prostrate themselves, count their beads, confess their sins, and
seek the coveted blessing of this demi-god, "who shuts the kingdom of heaven, and keeps the
key in his own pocket."

A noticeable feature of the place is that all the inhabitants go barefooted. Ladies (?) will
pass you with their stiffly-starched white dresses, and raven-black hair neatly done up with
colored ribbons, but with feet innocent of shoes. Soldiers and policemen tramp the streets,
but neither are provided with footwear, and their clothes are often in tatters. The Jesuits
taught the Indians to make shoes, but they alone wore them, exporting the surplus. Shoes are
not for common people, and when one of them dares to cover his feet he is considered presumptuous.
Hats they never wear, but they have the beautiful custom of weaving flowers in their hair.
When flowers are not worn the head is covered by a white sheet called the tupoi, and in some
cases this garment is richly embroidered. These females are devoted Romanists, as will be seen
from the following description of a feast held to St. John:

"Dona Juana's first care was to decorate with uncommon splendor a large image of St. John,
which, in a costly crystal box, she preserved as the chief ornament of her principal drawing-room.
He was painted anew and re-gilded. He had a black velvet robe purchased for him, and trimmed
with deep gold lace. Hovering over him was a cherub. Every friend of Dona Juana had lent some
part of her jewellery for the decoration of the holy man. Rings sparkled on his fingers; collars
hung around his neck; a tiara graced his venerable brow. The lacings of his sandals were studded
with pearls; a precious girdle bound his slender waist, and six large wax candles were lighted
up at the shrine. There, embosomed in fragrant evergreens--the orange, the lime, the acacia--stood
the favorite saint, destined to receive the first homage of every guest that should arrive.
These all solemnly took off their hats to the image."

Such religious mummery as this is painful to witness, and to see the saint borne round in procession,
with men carrying candles, and white-clad girls with large birds' wings fastened to their shoulders,
dispels the idea of its being Christianity at all.

The people are gentle and mild-spoken. White-robed women lead strings of donkeys along the
streets, bearing huge panniers full of vegetables, among which frequently play the women's
babies. The panniers are about a yard deep, and may often be seen full to the brim with live
fowls pinioned by the legs. Other women go around with large wicker trays on their heads, selling
chipa, the native bread, made from Indian corn, or mandioca root, the staple food of the country.
Wheat is not grown in Paraguay, and any flour used is imported. These daughters of Eve often
wear nothing more than a robe- de-chambre, and invariably smoke cigars six or eight inches
long. Their figure is erect and stately, and the laughing eyes full of mischief and merriment;
but they fade into old age at forty. Until then they seem proud as children of their brass
jewellery and red coral beads. The Paraguayans are the happiest race of people I have met;
care seems undreamed of by them.

In the post-office of the capital I have sometimes been unable to procure stamps, and "Dypore"
(We have none) has been the civil answer of the clerk. When they had stamps they were not provided
with mucilage, but a brush and pot of paste were handed the buyer. If you ask for a one cent
stamp the clerk will cut a two cent stamp and give you a half. They have, however, stamps the
tenth part of a cent in value, and a bank note in circulation whose face value is less than
a cent. There are only four numerals in the Guarani language: 1, petei; 2,moncoi; 3,bohapy;
4,irundu. It is not possible to express five or six. No wonder, therefore, that when I bought
five 40-cent stamps, I found the clerk was unable to count the sum, and I had to come to the
rescue and tell him it was $2.00. At least eighty per cent. of the people are unable to read.
When they do, it is of course in Spanish, A young man to whom I gave the Gospel of John carefully
looked at it, and then, turning to me, said: "Is this a history of that wonderful lawyer we
have been hearing about?" To those interested in the dissemination of Scriptures, let me state
that no single Gospel has as yet been translated into Guarani.

A tentative edition of the "Sermon on the Mount" has recently been issued by the British and
Foreign Bible Society, a copy of which I had the honor to be the first to present to the head
executive.

Gentle simplicity is the chief characteristic of the people. If the traveller relates the most
ordinary events that pass in the outside world, they will join in the exclamation of surprise-"Ba-eh-pico!
Ba-eh-pico!"

Information that tends to their lowering is not always accepted thus, however, for a colonel
in the army, when told that Asuncion could be put into a large city graveyard, hastily got
up from the dinner table and went away in wounded pride and incredulity. The one who is supposed
to "know a little" likes to keep his position, and the Spanish proverb is exemplified: "En
tierra de los ciegos, el tuerto es rey" (In the blind country the one-eyed are kings). The
native is most guileless and ignorant, as can well be understood when his language is an unwritten
one.

Paraguay is essentially a land of fruit, 200 oranges may be bought for the equivalent of six
cents. Small mountains of oranges may always be seen piled up on the banks ready to be shipped
down the river. Women are employed to load the vessels with this fruit, which they carry in
baskets on their heads. Everything is carried on their heads, even to a glass bottle. My laundress,
Cunacarai [Footnote: The Guarani idiom can boast of but few words, and Mr., Mrs. and Miss are
simply rendered "carai" (man), "cuna-carai" (woman) and "cunatai" (young woman); "mita cuna"
is girl, "mita cuimbai" is boy, and "mita mishi"--baby.] Jesus, although an old woman, could
bear almost incredible weights on her hard skull.

As the climate is hot, a favorite occupation for men and women is to sit half-submerged in
the river, smoking vigorously "The Paraguayans are an amphibious race, neither wholly seamen
nor wholly landsmen, but partaking of both." All sleep in cotton hammocks,--beds are almost
unknown. The hammocks are slung on the verandah of the house in the hotter season and all sleep
outside, taking off their garments with real sang froid. In the cooler season the visitor is
invited to hang his hammock along with the rest inside the house, and in the early morning
naked little children bring mate to each one. If the family is wealthy this will be served
in a heavy silver cup and bombilla, or sucking tube, of the same metal. After this drink and
a bite of chipa, a strangely shaped, thin-necked bottle, made of sun-baked clay, is brought,
and from it water is poured on the hands. The towels are spotlessly white and of the finest
texture. They are hand-made, and are so delicately woven and embroidered that I found it difficult
to accustom myself to use them. The beautifully fine lace called nanduti (literally spider's
web) is also here made by the Indian women, who have long been civilized. Some of the handkerchiefs
they make are worth $50 each in the fashionable cities of America and Europe. A month's work
may easily be expended on such a dainty fabric.

The women seem exceptionally fond of pets. Monkeys and birds are common in a house, and the
housewife will show you her parrot and say, "In this bird dwells the spirit of my departed
mother." An enemy, somehow, has always turned into an alligator--a reptile much loathed by them.

In even the poorest houses there is a shrine and a "Saint." These deities can answer all prayers
if they choose to. Sometimes, however, they are not "in the humor," and at one house the saint
had refused, so he was laid flat on the floor, face downwards. The woman swore that until he
answered her petition she would not lift him up again. He laid thus all night; whether longer
or not I do not know.

Having heard much concerning the moralite of the people, I asked the maid at a respectable
private house where I was staying: "Have you a father?" "No, sir," she answered, "we Paraguayans
are not accustomed to have a father." Children of five or six, when asked about that parent,
will often answer, "Father died in the war." The war ended thirty-nine years ago, but they
have been taught to say this by the mother.

As in Argentina the first word the stranger learns is manana (to- morrow), so here the first
is dy-qui (I don't know). Whatever question you ask the Guarani, he will almost invariably
answer, "Dy- qui." Ask him his age, he answers "Dy-qui" To your question: "Are you twenty or
one hundred and twenty?" he will reply "Dy-qui." Through the long rule of the Jesuits the natives
stopped thinking; they had it all done for them. "At the same time that they enslaved them,
they tortured them into the profession of the religion they had imported; and as they had seen
that in the old land the love of this world and the deceitfulness of riches were ever in the
way of conversion to the true faith, they piously relieved the Indians of these snares of the
soul, even going so far in the discharge of this painful duty as to relieve them of life at
the same time, if necessary to get their possessions into their own hands," [Footnote: Robertson's
"Letters on Paraguay."]

"The stories of their hardness, and perfidy, and immorality beggar description. The children
of the priests have become so numerous that the shame is no longer considered." [Footnote:
Service.]

As the Mahometans have their Mecca, so the Paraguayans have Caacupe; and the image of the Virgin
in that village is the great wonder- worker. Prayers are directed to her that she will raise
the sick, etc., and promises are made her if she will do this. One morning I had business with
a storekeeper, and went to his office. "Is the carai in?" I asked. "No," I was answered, "he
has gone to Caacupe to pay a promise." That promise was to burn so many candles before the
Virgin, and further adorn her bejewelled robes. She had, as he believed, healed him of a sickness.

The village of Caacupe is about forty miles from Asuncion. "The Bishop of Paraguay formally
inaugurated the worship of the Virgin of Caacupe, sending forth an episcopal letter accrediting
the practice, and promising indulgences to the pilgrims who should visit the shrine. Thus the
worship became legal and orthodox. Multitudes of people visit her, carrying offerings of valuable
jewels. There are several well-authenticated cases of persons, whose offerings were of inferior
quality, being overtaken with some terrible calamity." [Footnote: Washburn's "History of Paraguay."]

Funds must be secured somehow, for the present Bishop's sons, to whom I was introduced as among
the aristocrats of the capital, certainly need a large income from the lavish manner I noticed
them "treat" all and sundry in the hotel. "It is admitted by all, that in South America the
church is decadent and corrupt. The immorality of the priests is taken for granted. Priests'
sons and daughters, of course not born in wedlock, abound everywhere, and no stigma attaches
to them or to their fathers and mothers." [Footnote: "The Continent of Opportunity." Dr. Clark.]
Hon. S. H. Blake, in the Neglected Continent, writes: "I was especially struck by the statement
of a Roman Catholic--a Consular agent with a large amount of information as to the land and
its inhabitants. He stopped me in speaking of the priests by saying, 'I know all that. You
cannot exaggerate their immorality. Everybody knows it--but the Latin race is a degenerate
race. Nothing can be done with it. The Roman Church has had four centuries of trial and has
made a failure of it.'"

When a person is dying, the Pai is hurriedly sent for. To this call he will readily respond.
A procession will be formed, and, preceded by a boy ringing a bell, the Host, or, to use an
everyday expression, God, will be carried from the church down the street to the sick one.
All passers-by must kneel as this goes along, and the police will arrest you if you do not
at least take off your hat. "Liberty of conscience is a most diabolical thing, to be stamped
out at any cost," is the maxim of Rome, and the Guarani has learned his lesson well. "In Inquisition
Square men were burned for daring to think, therefore men stopped thinking when death was the
penalty."

Wakes for the dead are always held, and in the case of a child the little one lies in state
adorned with gilded wings and tinselled finery. All in the neighborhood are invited to the
dance which takes place that evening around the corpse. At a funeral the Pai walks first, followed
by a crowd of men, women and children bearing candles, some of which are four and five feet
long. The dead are carried through the streets in a very shallow coffin, and the head is much
elevated. An old woman generally walks by the side, bearing the coffin lid on her head. The
dead are always buried respectfully, for an old law reads: "No person shall ride in the dead
cart except the corpse that is carried, and, therefore, nobody shall get up and ride behind.
It is against Christian piety to bury people with irreverent actions, or drag them in hides,
or throw them into the grave without consideration, or in a position contrary to the practice
of the Church."

All Saints Day is a special time for releasing departed ones out of purgatory. Hundreds of
people visit the cemeteries then, and pay the waiting priests so much a prayer, If that "liberator
of souls" sings the prayer the price is doubled, but it is considered doubly efficacious.

A good feature of Romanism in Paraguay is that the people have been taught something of Christ,
but there seems to be an utter want of reverence toward His person, for one may see a red flag
on the public streets announcing that there are the "Auction Rooms of the child God." In his
"Letters on Paraguay," Robertson relates the following graphic account of the celebration of
His death: "I found great preparations making at the cathedral for the sermon of 'the agony
on the cross.' A wooden figure of our Saviour crucified was affixed against the wall, opposite
the pulpit; a large bier was placed in the centre of the cathedral, and the great altar at
the eastern extremity was hung with black; while around were disposed lighted candles and other
insignia of a great funeral. When the sermon commenced, the cathedral was crowded to suffocation,
a great proportion of the audience being females. The discourse was interrupted alternately
by the low moans and sobbings of the congregation. These became more audible as the preacher
warmed with his discourse, which was partly addressed to his auditory and partly to the figure
before him; and when at length he exclaimed, 'Behold! Behold! He gives up the ghost!' the head
of the figure was slowly depressed by a spring towards the breast, and one simultaneous shriek--loud,
piercing, almost appalling--was uttered by the whole congregation. The women now all struggled
for a superiority in giving unbounded vent to apparently the most distracting grief. Some raved
like maniacs, others beat their breasts and tore their hair. Exclamations, cries, sobs and
shrieks mingled, and united in forming one mighty tide of clamor, uproar, noise and confusion.
In the midst of the raging tempest could be heard, ever and anon, the stentorian voice of the
preacher, reproaching in terms of indignation and wrath the apathy of his hearers! 'Can you,
oh, insensate crowd!' he would cry, 'Can you sit in silence?'--but here his voice was drowned
in an overwhelming cry of loudest woe, from every part of the church; and for five minutes
all further effort to make himself heard was unavailing. This singular scene continued for
nearly half an hour; then, by degrees, the vehement grief of the congregation abated, and when
I left the cathedral it had subsided once more into low sobs and silent tears.

"I now took my way, with many others, to the Church of San Francisco, where, in an open space
in front of the church, I found that the duty of the day had advanced to the funeral service,
which was about being celebrated. There a scaffolding was erected, and the crucifixion exactly
represented by wooden figures, not only of our Lord, but of the two thieves. A pulpit was erected
in front of the scaffold; and the whole square was covered by the devout inhabitants of the
city. The same kind of scene was being enacted here as at the cathedral, with the difference,
however, of the circumstantial funeral in place of the death. The orator's discourse when I
arrived was only here and there interrupted by a suppressed moan, or a struggling sigh, to
be heard in the crowd. But when he commenced giving directions for the taking down of the body
from the cross, the impatience of grief began to manifest itself on all sides, 'Mount up,'
he cried, 'ye holy ministers, mount up, and prepare for the sad duty which ye have to perform!'
Here six or eight persons, covered from head to foot with ample black cloaks, ascended the
scaffold. Now the groans of the people became more audible; and when at length directions were
given to strike out the first nail, the cathedral scene of confusion, which I have just described,
began, and all the rest of the preacher's oratory was dumb show. The body was at length deposited
in the coffin, and the groaning and shrieking of the assembled multitude ceased. A solemn funeral
ceremony took place: every respectable person received a great wax taper to carry in the procession:
the coffin after being carried all round was deposited in the church: the people dispersed;
and the great day of Passion Week was brought to a close."

CHAPTER IX.

EXPEDITION TO THE SUN-WORSHIPPERS. [Footnote: An account of this expedition was requested by
and sent to the Royal Geographical Society of London, Eng.]

I took passage on the "Urano," a steamer of 1,500 tons, for Concepcion, 200 miles north of
Asuncion.

On the second day of our journey the people on board celebrated a church feast, and the pilot,
in his anxiety to do it well, got helplessly drunk. The result was that during that night I
was thrown out of the top berth I occupied by a terrific thud. The steamer had run on the sandbank
of an uninhabited island, and there she stuck fast--immovable. We were landed on the shore,
and there had further time for reflection on the mutability of things. In the white sand there
were distinct footprints of a large jaguar and cub, probably come to prey on the lazy alligators
that were lying on the beach; and I caught sight of a large spotted serpent, which glided into
the low jungle where the tiger also doubtless was in hiding.

After three days' detention here, a Brazilian packet took us off. On stepping aboard, I saw
what I thought to be two black pigs lying on the deck. I assure the reader that it was some
seconds before I discovered that one was not a pig, but a man!

At sunset it is the custom on these river boats for all to have a bath. The females go to one
side of the ship, and the males to the other; buckets are lowered, and in turn they throw water
over each other. After supper, in the stillness of the evening, dancing is the order, and bare
feet keep time to the twang of the guitar.

We occasionally caught sight of savages on the west bank of the river, and the captain informed
me that he had once brought up a bag of beans to give them. The beans had been poisoned, in
order that the miserable creatures might be swept off the earth!

We landed at Concepcion, and I walked ashore. I found the only British subject living there
was a university graduate, but--a prodigal son Owing to his habit of constant drinking, the
authorities of the town compelled him to work. As I passed up the street I saw him mending
a road of the "far country" There I procured five horses, a stock of beads, knives, etc, for
barter, and made ready for my land journey into the far interior. The storekeeper, hearing
of my plans, strongly urged me not to attempt the journey, and soon all the village talked.
Vague rumors of the unknown savages of the interior had been heard, and it was said the expedition
could only end in disaster, especially as I was not even going to get the blessing of the Pai
before starting. I was fortunate, however, in securing the companionship of an excellent man
who bore the suggestive name of "Old Stabbed Arm"; and Dona Dolores (Mrs. Sorrows), true to
her name, whom I engaged to make me about twenty pounds of chipa, said she would intercede
with her saint for me. Loading the pack-horse with chipa, beads, looking-glasses, knives, etc.,
Old Stabbed Arm and I mounted our horses, and, each taking a spare one by the halter, drove
the pack-saddle mare in front, leaving the tenderhearted Mrs. Sorrows weeping behind. The roads
are simply paths through deep red sand, into which the horses sank up to their knees; and they
are so uneven that one side is frequently two feet higher than the other, so we could travel
only very slowly. From time to time we had to push our way into the dense forest on either
side, in order to give space for a string of bullock carts to go past. These vehicles are eighteen
or twenty feet long, but have only two wheels. They are drawn by ten or twelve oxen, which
are urged on by goads fastened to a bamboo, twenty feet long, suspended from the roof of the
cart, which is thatched with reeds. The goads are artistically trimmed with feathers of parrots
and macaws, or with bright ribbons. These are of all colors, but those around the sharp nail
at the end are further painted with red blood every time the goad is used.

The carts, rolling and straining like ships in foul weather, can be heard a mile off, owing
to the humming screech of the wheels, which are never greased, but on the contrary have powdered
charcoal put in them to increase the noise. Without this music (?) the bullocks do not work
so well. How the poor animals could manage to draw the load was often a mystery to me, Sections
of the road were partly destroyed by landslides and heavy rains, but down the slippery banks
of rivers, through the beds of torrents or up the steep inclines they somehow managed to haul
the unwieldy vehicle. Strings of loaded donkeys or mules, with jingling bells, also crawled
past, and I noticed with a smile that even the animals in this idolatrous land cannot get on
without the Virgin, for they have tiny statuettes of her standing between their ears to keep
them from danger. Near the town the rivers and streams are bridged over with tree trunks placed
longitudinally, and the crevices are filled in with boughs and sods. Some of them are so unsafe
and have such gaping holes that I frequently dismounted and led my horse over.

The tropical scenery was superb. Thousands of orange trees growing by the roadside, filled
with luscious fruit on the lower branches, and on the top with the incomparable orange blossoms,
afforded delight to the eye, and notwithstanding the heat, kept us cool, for as we rode we
could pluck and eat. Tree ferns twenty and thirty feet high waved their feathery fronds in
the gentle breeze, and wild pineapples growing at our feet loaded the air with fragrance.

There was the graceful pepper tree, luxuriant hanging lichens, or bamboos forty feet high,
which riveted the attention and made one think what a beautiful world God has made. Many of
the shrubs and plants afford dyes of the richest hues, Azara found four hundred new species
of the feathered tribe in the gorgeous woods and coppices of Paraguay, and all, with the melancholy
caw, caw of the toucans overhead, spoke of a tropical land. Parrots chattered in the trees,
and sometimes a serpent glided across the red sand road. Unfortunately, flies were so numerous
and so tormenting that, even with the help of a green branch, we could not keep off the swarms,
and around the horses' eyes were dozens of them. Several menacing hornets also troubled us.
They are there so fierce that they can easily sting a man or a horse to death!

As night fell we came to an open glade, and there beside a clear, gurgling brook staked out
our horses and camped for the night. Building a large fire of brushwood, we ate our supper,
and then lay down on our saddlecloths, the firmament of God with its galaxy of stars as our
covering overhead.

By next evening we reached the village of Pegwaomi. On the way we had passed a house here and
there, and had seen children ten or twelve years of age sucking sticks of sugar-cane, but content
with no other clothing than their rosary, or an image of the Virgin round their necks, like
those the mules wear. Pegwaomi, I saw, was quite a village, its pretty houses nestling among
orange and lime trees, with luscious bananas in the background. There was no Pai in Pegwaomi,
so I was able to hold a service in an open shed, with a roof but no walls. The chief man of
the village gave me permission to use this novel building, and twenty-three people came to
hear the stranger speak. After the service a poor woman was very desirous of confessing her
sins to me, and she thought I was a strange preacher when I told her of One in heaven to whom
she should confess.

"Paraguay, from its first settlement, never departed from 'the age of faith' Neither doubt
nor free-thinking in regard to spiritual affairs ever perplexed the people, but in all religious
matters they accepted the words of the fathers as the unquestionable truth. Unfortunately,
the priests were, with scarcely an exception, lazy and profligate; yet the people were so superstitious
and credulous that they feared to disobey them, or reserve anything which they might be required
to confess." [Footnote: Washburn's "History of Paraguay."]

In the front gardens of many of the rustic houses I noticed a wooden cross draped with broad
white lace. The dead are always interred in the family garden, and these marked the site of
the graves. When the people can afford it, a priest is brought to perform the sad rite of burial,
but the Paraguayan Pai is proverbially drunken and lazy. Once after a church feast, which was
largely given up to drinking, the priest fell over on the floor in a state of intoxication.
"While he thus lay drunk, a boy crawled through the door to ask his blessing, whereupon the
priest swore horribly and waved him off, 'Not to-day, not to-day those farces! I am drunk,
very drunk!'" Such an one has been described by Pollock: "He was a man who stole the livery
of the court of heaven to serve the devil in; in holy guise transacted villainies that ordinary
mortals durst not meddle with."

Lest it might be thought that I am strongly prejudiced, I give this extract from a responsible
historian of that unhappy land: "The simple-minded and superstitious Paraguayans reverenced
a Pai, or father, as the immediate representative of God. They blindly and implicitly followed
the instructions given to them, and did whatever was required at his hands. Many of the licentious
brotherhood took advantage of this superstitious confidence placed in them by the people to
an extent which, in a moral country, would not only shock every feeling of our nature to relate,
but would, in the individual instances, appear to be incredible, and, in the aggregate, be
counted as slanderous on humanity."

During my stay in Pagwaomi, a dance was held on the sward outside one of the houses, and the
national whirl, the sarandiy, gave pleasure to all. The females wove flowers in their hair,
and made garlands of them to adorn their waists. Others had caught fire-flies, which nestled
in the wavy tresses and lit up the semi-darkness with a soft light, like so many green stars.
Love whisperings, in the musical Guarani, were heard by willing ears, and eyelight was thus
added to starlight. As the dancers flitted here and there in their white garments, or came
out from the shade of the orange trees, they looked ethereal, like the inhabitants of another
world one sees at times in romantic dreams, for this village is surely a hundred years behind
the moon.

From this scene of innocent happiness I was taken to more than one sick-bed, for it soon became
known that I carried medicines.

Will the reader accompany me? Enter then--a windowless mud hut See, lying on sheepskins and
burning with fever, a young woman-almost a girl-wailing "Che raciy!>" (I am sick!) Notice the
intense eagerness of her eyes as she gazes into mine when I commence to minister to her. Watch
her submit to my necessarily painful treatment with child-like faith. Then, before we quietly
steal out again, listen to her low-breathed "Acuerame" (Already I feel better).

In a larger house, a hundred yards away, an earthenware lamp, with cotton wick dipping in raw
castor oil, sheds fitful gleams on a dying woman. The trail of sin is only too evident, even
in thoughtless Pegwaomi. The tinselled saints are on the altar at the foot of the bed, and
on the woman's breast, tightly clutched, is a crucifix, but Mrs. Encarnacion has never heard
of the Incarnate One whom she is soon to meet. Perhaps, if Christians are awake by that time,
her grandchildren may hear the "story."

In that rustic cottage, half covered with jasmine, and shaded by a royal palm, a child lies
very sick. Listen to its low, weak moaning as we cross the threshold. The mother has procured
a piece of tape, the length of which, she says, is the exact measure of the head of Saint Blas.
This she has repeatedly put around her babe's head as an unfailing cure. Somehow the charm
does not work and the woman is sorely perplexed. While we helplessly look on the infant dies!
Outside, the moon soared high, throwing a silver veil over the grim pathos of it all; but in
the breast of the writer was a surging dissatisfaction and--anger, at his fellow--Christians
in the homeland, who in their thoughtless selfishness will not reach out a helping hand to
the perishing of other lands.

Would the ever-present Spirit, who wrote "Be ye angry" not understand? Would the Master of
patience and forbearance, who Himself showed righteous anger, enter into it? Is the Great God,
who sees these sheep left without a shepherd, Himself angry? Surely it is well to ask?

"Oh, heavy lies the weight of ill on many hearts, And comforters are needed sore of Christlike
touch."

In this village I made inquiries for another servant and guide, and was directed to "Timoteo,
the very man." Liking his looks, and being able to come to satisfactory terms, I engaged him
as my second helper. Timoteo had a sister called Salvadora (Saviour). She pounded corn in a
mortar with a hardwood pestle, and made me another baking of chipa, with which we further burdened
the pack-horse, and away we started again, with affectionate farewells and tears, towards the
unknown.

Next day we were joined by a traveller who was escaping to the interior. He plainly declared
himself as a murderer, and told us he had shot one of the doctors in Asuncion. Through being
well connected, he had, after three weeks' detention in prison, been liberated, as he boasted
to us, con todo buen nombre y fama (with good name and report). The relatives of the murdered
man, however, did not agree with this verdict, and sought his life. During the day we shot
an iguana, and after a meal from its fat tail our new acquaintance, finding the pace too slow
for his hasty flight, left us, and I was not sorry. We met a string of bullock carts, each
drawn by six animals and having a spare one behind. The lumbering wagons were on their way
from the Paraguayan mate fields, and had a load of over two thousand pounds each. Jolting over
huge tree-trunks, or anon sinking in a swamp, followed by swarms of gad-flies, the patient
animals wended their way.

Here and there one may see by the roadside a large wooden cross, with a rudely carved wooden
rooster on the top, while below it are the nails, scourge, hammer, pincers and spear of gruesome
crucifixion memory. At other places there are smaller shrines with a statuette of the Virgin
inside, and candles invariably burning, provided by the generous wayfarers. It is interesting
to note that the old Indians had, at the advent of the Spaniards, cairns of stones along their
paths, and the pious Indian would contribute a stone when he passed as an offering to Pachacamac,
who would keep away the evil spirits. That custom is still kept up by the Christian (?) Paraguayan,
with the difference that now it is given to the Virgin. My guide would get down from his horse
when we arrived at these altars, and contribute a stone to the ever-growing heap. If a specially
bright one is offered, he told me it was more gratifying to the goddess. Feeling that we were
very likely to meet with many evil spirits, Timoteo carefully sought for bright stones. The
people are very religious, yet with it all are terribly depraved! The truth is seldom spoken,
and my guide was, unfortunately, no exception to the rule. As we left the haunts of men, and
difficulties thickened, he would often entreat the help of Holy Mary, but in the same breath
would lie and curse!

Sighting a miserable hut, we called to inquire for meat. The master of the house, I discovered,
was a leper, and I further learned, on asking if I might water my horses, that the nearest
water was three miles away. The man and wife and their large family certainly looked as though
water was a luxury too costly to use on the skin. The leper was most hospitable, however; he
killed a sheep for us, and we sat down to a feast of mutton. After this we pushed on to water
the horses. By sunset we arrived at a cattle ranch near the river Ipane, and there we stayed
for the night. At supper all dipped in the same stew-pan, and afterwards rinsed out the mouth
with large draughts of water, which they squirted back on the brick floor of the dining- room.
The men then smoked cigarettes of tobacco rolled in corn leaves, and the women smoked their
six-inch-long cigars. Finding that two of the men understood Spanish, I read some simple parts
of scripture to them by the light of a dripping grease lamp. They listened in silence, and
wondered at the strange new story. The mosquitoes were so troublesome that a large platform,
twenty feet high, had been erected, and after reading all the inmates of the house, with us,
ascended the ladder leading to the top. There the mosquitoes did not disturb us, so we slept
peacefully on our aerial roost between the fire-flies of the earth and the stars of heaven.

Next day we came to a solitary house, where I noticed strings of meat hung in the sun to dry.
This is left, like so many stockings and handkerchiefs, hanging there until it is hard as wood;
it will then keep for an indefinite time. There we got a good dinner of fresh beef, and about
ten pounds of the dried meat (charqui) to take away with us. At this place I bought two more
horses, and we each got a large bullock's horn in which to carry water, swinging from the saddle-tree.
I was not sorry to leave this house, for, tearing up the offal around the building, I counted
as many as sixty black vultures. Their king, a dirty white bird with crimson neck covered with
gore and filth, had already gorged himself with all the blood he could get. "All his sooty
subjects stand apart at a respectful distance, whetting their appetites and regaling their
nostrils, but never dreaming of an approach to the carcass till their master has sunk into
a state of repletion. When the kingly bird, by falling on his side, closing his eyes, and stretching
on the ground his unclenched talons, gives notice to his surrounding and expectant subjects
that their lord and master has gone to rest, up they hop to the carcass, which in a few minutes
is stripped of everything eatable." Here we left the high-road, which is cut through to Punta
Pona on the Brazilian frontier, and struck off to the west. Over the grassy plains we made
good progress, and by evening were thirty miles farther on our journey. But when we had to
cut the path before us through the forest, ten or twelve miles was a good day's work. When
the growth was very dense, the morning and evening camps were perhaps only separated by a league.
Anon we struggled through a swamp, or the horses stuck fast in a bog, and the carapatas feasted
on our blood. "What are carapatas?" you ask. They are leeches, bugs, mosquitos, gad-flies,
etc., all compounded into one venomous insect! These voracious green ticks, the size of a bug,
are indeed a terrible scourge. They fasten on the body in scores, and when pulled away, either
the piece of flesh comes with them or the head of the carapata is torn off. It was easy to
pick a hundred of these bugs off the body at night, but it was not easy to sleep after the
ordeal! The poor horses, brushing through the branches on which the ticks wait for their prey,
were sometimes half covered with them!

As we continued our journey, a house was a rare sight, and soon we came to "the end of Christianity,"
as Timoteo said, and all civilization was left behind. The sandy road became a track, and then
we could no longer follow the path, for there was none to follow. Timoteo had traversed those
regions before in search of the mate plant, however, and with my compass I kept the general
direction.

After about ten days' travel, during which time we had many reminders that the flesh-pots had
been left behind, "Che cane o" (I am tired) was frequently heard. Game was exceedingly scarce,
and it was possible to travel for days without sighting any animal or ostrich. We passed no
houses, and saw no human beings. For two days we subsisted on hard Indian corn. Water was scarce,
and for a week we were unable to wash. Jiggers got into our feet when sleeping on the ground,
and these caused great pain and annoyance. Someone has described a jigger as "a cross between
Satan and a woodtick." The little insects lay their eggs between the skin and flesh. When the
young hatch out, they begin feeding on the blood, and quickly grow half an inch long and cause
an intense itching. My feet were swollen so much that I could not get on my riding-boots, and,
consequently, my lower limbs were more exposed than ever. If not soon cut out, the flesh around
them begins to rot, and mortification sometimes ensues.

On some of the savannas we were able to kill deer and ostrich, but they generally were very
scarce. Our fare was varied; sometimes we feaisted on parrot pie or vultures eggs; again we
lay down on the hard, stony ground supperless. At such times I would be compelled to rise from
time to time and tighten up my belt, until I must have resembled one of the ladies of fashion,
so far as the waist was concerned. Again we came to marshy ground, filled with royal duck,
teal, water-hens, snipe, etc, and forgot the pangs of past hunger. At such places we would
fill our horns and drink the putrid water, or take off our shirts and wash them and our bodies.
Mud had to serve for soap. Our washing, spread out on the reeds, would soon dry, and off we
would start for another stage.

The unpeopled state of the country was a constant wonder to me; generations have disappeared
without leaving a trace of their existence. Sometimes I stopped to admire the pure white water-lilies
growing on stagnant black water, or the lovely Victoria Regia, the leaf of which is at times
so large as to weigh ten pounds. The flowers have white petals, tinted with rose, and the centre
is a deep violet. Their weight is between two and three pounds.

Wherever we camped we lit immense fires of brushwood, and generally slept peacefully, but with
loaded rifle at arm's length.

A portion of land which I rode over while in that district must have been just a thin crust
covering a mighty cave. The horses' footfalls made hollow sounds, and when the thin roof shook
I half expected to be precipitated into unknown depths.

After many weeks of varied experiences we arrived at or near the land I was seeking. There,
on the banks of a river, we struck camp, and from there I made short excursions in all directions
in order to ascertain the approximate value of the old gentleman's estate. On the land we came
upon an encampment of poor, half or wholly naked Caingwa Indians. By them we were kindly received,
and found that, notwithstanding their extremely sunken condition and abject poverty, they seemed
to have mandioca and bananas in abundance. In return for a few knives and beads, I was able
to purchase quite a stock. Seeing that all the dishes, plates, and bottles they have grow in
the form of gourds, they imagine all such things we use also grow. It was amusing to hear them
ask for seeds of the glass medicine bottles I carried with me.

A drum, ingeniously made by stretching a serpent's skin over a large calabash, was monotonously
beaten as our good-night lullaby when we stretched ourselves out on the grass.

The Caingwa men all had their lower lip pierced, and hanging down over the breast was a thin
stick about ten inches long. Their faces were also painted in strange patterns.

Learning from their chief that the royal tribe to which they originally belonged lived away
in the depths of the forest to the east, some moons distant, I became curious. After repeated
enquiries I was told that a king ruled the people there, and that they daily worshipped the
sun. Hearing of these sun-worshippers, I determined, if possible, to push on thither. The old
chief himself offered to direct us if, in return, I would give him a shirt, a knife, and a
number of white beads. The bargain was struck, and arrangements were made to start off at sunrise
next day, My commission was not only to see the old gentleman's land, but to visit the surrounding
Indians, with a view to missionary work being commenced among them.

The morning dawned clear and propitious, but the chief had decided not to go. On enquiring
the reason for the change of mind, I discovered that his people had been telling him that I
only wanted to get him into the forest in order to kill him, and that I would not give him
the promised shirt and beads. I thought that it was much more likely for him to kill me than
I him, and I set his mind at rest about the reward, for on the spot I gave him the coveted
articles. On receipt of those luxuries his doubts of me fled, and I soon assured him that I
had no intention whatever of taking his life. Towards noon we started off, and, winding our
way through the Indian paths in single file, we again soon left behind us all signs of man,
and saw nothing to mark that any had passed that way before.

That night, as we sat under a large silk-cotton tree silently eating supper off plates of palm
leaves, the old chief suddenly threw down his meat, and, with a startled expression, said,
"I hear spirits!" Never having heard such ethereal visitors myself, I smiled incredulously,
whereupon the old savage glared at me, and, leaving his food upon the ground went away out
of the firelight into the darkness. Afraid that he might take one of the horses and return
to his people, I followed to soothe him, but his offended mood did not pass until, as he said,
the spirits had gone.

On the third day scarcity of water began to be felt. We had been slowly ascending the rugged
steeps of a mountain, and as the day wore on the thirst grew painful. That night both we and
the horses had to be content with the dew-drops we sucked from the grass, and our dumb companions
showed signs of great exhaustion. The Indian assured me that if we could push on we would,
by next evening, come to a beautiful lake in the mountains: so, ere the sun rose next morning,
we were in the saddle on our journey to the coveted water.

All that day we plodded along painfully, silently. Our lips were dried together, and our tongues
swollen. Thirst hurts! The horses hung their heads and ears, and we were compelled to dismount
and go afoot. The poor creatures were getting so thin that our weight seemed to crush them
to the earth. The sun again set, darkness fell, and the lake was, for all I could see, a dream
of the chief, our guide. At night, after repeating the sucking of the dew, we ate a little,
drank the blood of an animal, and tried to sleep. The patient horses stood beside us with closed
eyes and bowed heads, until the sight was more than I could bear. Fortunately, a very heavy
dew fell, which greatly helped us, and two hours before sunrise next morning the loads were
equally distributed on the backs of the seven horses and we started off once again through
the mist for water! water! When the sun illuminated the heavens and lit up the rugged peaks
of the strangely shaped mountains ahead of us, hope was revived. We sucked the fruit of the
date palm, and in imagination bathed and wallowed in the water--beautiful water--we so soon
expected to behold. The poor horses, however, not buoyed up with sweet hopes as we were, gave
out, one after the other, and we were compelled to cruelly urge them on up the steep. With
it all, I had to leave two of the weaker ones behind, purposing, if God should in kindness
permit us to reach water, to return and save them.

That afternoon the Indian chief, who, though an old man, had shown wonderful fortitude and
endurance, and still led the way, shouted: "Eyoape! Eyoape!" (Come! Come!) We were near the
lake. With new- born strength I left all and ran, broke through the brushwood of the shore,
jumped into the lake, and found--nothing but hard earth! The lake was dried up! I dug my heel
into the ground to see if below the surface there might be soft mud, but failing to find even
that, I dropped over with the world dancing in distorted visions before my eyes. More I cannot
relate.

How long I lay there I never knew. The Indian, I learned later, exploring a deep gully at the
other side, found a putrid pool of slime, full of poisonous frogs and alive with insects. Some
of this liquid he brought to me in his hands, and, after putting it in my mouth, had the satisfaction
of seeing me revive. I dimly remember that my next act was to crawl towards the water-hole
he guided me to. In this I lay and drank. I suppose it soaked into my system as rain in the
earth after a drought. That stagnant pool was our salvation. The horses were brought up, and
we drank, and drank again. Not until our thirst was slaked did we fully realize how the water
stank! When the men were sufficiently refreshed they returned for the abandoned horses, which
were found still alive. Had they scented water somewhere and drank? At the foot of the mountains,
on the other side, we later discovered much better water, and there we camped, our horses revelling
in the abundant pasturage.

After this rest we continued our journey, and next day came to the edge of a virgin forest.
Through that, the chief said, we must cut our way, for the royal tribe never came out, and
were never visited. Close to the edge of the forest was a deep precipice, at the bottom of
which we could discern a silvery streak of clear water. From there we must procure the precious
fluid for ourselves and horses. Taking our kettle and horns, we sought the best point to descend,
and after considerable difficulty, clinging to the branches of the overhanging trees and the
dense undergrowth, we reached the bottom. After slaking our thirst we ascended with filled
horns and kettle to water the horses. As may be supposed, this was a tedious task, and the
descent had to be made many times before the horses were satisfied. My hat served for watering
pail.

Next morning the same process was repeated, and then the men, each with long machetes I had
provided, set to work to cut a path through the forest, and Old Stabbed Arm went off in search
of game. After a two hours' hunt, a fat ostrich fell before his rifle, and he returned to camp.
We still had a little chipa, which had by this time become as hard as stone, but which I jealously
guarded to use only in case of the greatest emergency. At times we had been very hungry, but
my order was that it should not be touched.

Only the reader who has seen the virgin forest, with its interlacing lianas, thick as a man's
leg--the thorns six inches long and sharp as needles--can form an idea of the task before us.
As we penetrated farther and farther in the selva, the darkness became deeper and deeper. Giant
trees reared their heads one hundred and fifty feet into the heavens, and beautiful palms,
with slender trunks and delicate, feathery leaves, waved over us. The medicinal plants were
represented by sarsaparilla and many others equally valuable. There was the cocoa palm, the
date palm, and the cabbage palm, the latter of which furnished us good food, while the wine
tree afforded an excellent and cooling drink. In parts all was covered with beautiful pendant
air-flowers, gorgeous with all the colors of the rainbow. Monkeys chattered and parrots screamed,
but otherwise there was a sombre stillness. The exhalations from the depth of rotting leaves
and the decaying fallen wood rendered the steamy atmosphere most poisonous. Truly, the flora
was magnificent, and the fauna, represented by the spotted jaguar, whose roar at times broke
the awful quiet of the night, was equally grand.

As the chief, ignorant of hours and miles, could not tell me the extent of the forest, I determined
to let him and Timoteo make their way through as best they could, crawling through the branches,
to the Sun-Worshippers, and secure their help in cutting a way for the horses. After dividing
the food I had, we separated. Timoteo and the Indian crept into the forest and were soon lost
sight of, while Old Stabbed Arm and I, with the horses, retraced our steps, and reached the
open land again. After an earnest conversation my companion shouldered his rifle and went off
to hunt, and I was left with only the companionship of the grazing horses. I remained behind
to water the animals, and protect our goods from any prowling savage who might chance to be
in the neighborhood. My saddle-bed was spread under a large burning bush, or incense tree,
and my self-imposed duty was to keep a fire burning in the open, that its smoke might be seen
by day and its light by night.

Going exploring a little, I discovered a much better descent down the precipice, and water
was more easily brought up. Indeed, I decided that, if a certain deep chasm were bridged over,
it might be possible to get the horses themselves to descend by a winding way. With this object
in view I felled saplings near the place, and in a few hours constructed a rough bridge, strong
enough to bear a horse's weight. Whether the animals could smell the water flowing at the bottom,
or were more agile than I had thought, I cannot tell, but they descended the almost perpendicular
path most wonderfully, and soon were taking draughts of the precious liquid with great gusto.
Leaving the horses to enjoy their drink, I ascended the stream for some distance, in order
to discover, if possible, where the flow came from. Judge of my surprise when I found that
the water ran out of a grotto, or cavern, in the face of the cliff-out of the unknown darkness
into the sunlight! Walking up the bed of the stream, I entered the cave, and, striking a few
matches, found it to be inhabited by hundreds of vampire bats, which were hanging from the
sides and stalactites of the roof, like so many damp, black rags. On my entrance the unearthly
creatures were disturbed, and many came flying in my face, so I made a quick exit. Several
which I killed came floating down the stream with me; one that I measured proved to be twenty-two
inches across the wings. My exploration had discovered the secret of the clots of blood we
had been finding on the horses' necks every morning. The vampire-bats, in their nightly flights,
had been sucking the life- blood of our poor, already starving animals! It is said these loathsome
creatures--half beast, half bird--fan their victim to sleep while they drain out the red blood.
Provided with palm torches, I again entered the cavern, but could not penetrate its depths;
it seemed to go right into the bowels of the mountain. Exploring down stream was more successful,
for large flamingoes and wild ducks and geese were found in plenty.

That night I carefully staked out the horses all around the camp-fire and lay down to think
and sleep and dream. Old Stabbed Arm had not returned, and I was alone with nature. Several
times I rose to see if the horses were securely tied, and to kill any bats I might find disturbing
them. Rising in the grey dawn, I watered the horses, cooked a piece of ostrich meat, and started
off on foot for a short distance to explore the country to the north, where I saw many indications
that tapirs were numerous. My first sight of this peculiar animal of Paraguay I shall never
forget. It resembles no other beast I have ever seen, but seems half elephant, with its muzzle
like a short trunk. In size it is about six feet long and three and a half feet high. There
were also ant-bears, peculiar animals, without teeth, but provided with a rough tongue to lick
up the ants. The length of this animal is about four feet, but the thick tail is longer than
the body. Whereas the tapir has a hog-like skin, the ant-bear has long, bristly hairs.

Returning to camp, judge of my surprise when I found it in possession of two savages of strange
appearance. My first thought was that I had lost all, but, drawing nearer, I discovered that
Timoteo and the chief were also there, squatting on the ground, devouring the remains of my
breakfast. They had returned from the royal tribe, who had offered to cut a way from their
side, and these two strangers were to assist us.

With this additional help we again penetrated the forest. The men cut with a will, and I drove
the horses after them. Black, howling monkeys, with long beards and grave countenances, leapt
among the trees. Red and blue macaws screeched overhead, and many a large serpent received
its death-blow from our machetes. Sometimes we were fortunate enough to secure a bees' nest
full of honey, or find luscious fruit. At times I stopped to admire a giant tree, eight or
ten feet in diameter, or orchids of the most delicate hues, but the passage was hard and trying,
and the stagnant air most difficult to breathe. The fallen tree-trunks, over which we had to
step, or go around or under, were very numerous, and sometimes we landed in a bed, not of roses,
but of thorns. Sloths and strange birds' nests hung from the trees, while the mosquitos and
insects made life almost unendurable. We were covered with carapatas, bruised and torn, and
almost eaten up alive with insects.

Under the spreading branches of one of the largest trees we came upon an abandoned Indian camp.
This, I was told, had belonged to the "little men of the woods," hairy dwarfs, a few of whom
inhabit the depths of the forest, and kill their game with blow-pipes. Of course we saw none
of the poor creatures. Their scent is as keen as an animal's; they are agile as monkeys, and
make off to hide in the hollow trunks of trees, or bury themselves in the decaying vegetation
until danger is past. Poor pigmy! What place will he occupy in the life that is to be?

CHAPTER X.

WE REACH THE SUN-WORSHIPPERS.

After some days' journey we heard shouts, and knew that, like entombed miners, we were being
dug out on the other side! The Caingwas soon met us, and I looked into their faces and gravely
saluted. They stared at me in speechless astonishment, and I as curiously regarded them. Each
man had his lower lip pierced and wore the barbote I have described, with the difference that
these were made of gum.

With a clear path before us we now made better progress, and before long emerged from the living
tomb, but the memory of it will ever remain a nightmare.

We found a crowd of excited Indians, young and old, awaiting us. Many of the females ran like
frightened deer on catching sight of me, but an old man, whom I afterwards learned was the
High Priest of the tribe, came and asked my business. Assuring him, through Timoteo, that my
mission was peaceable, and that I had presents for them, he gave me permission to enter into
the glade, where I was told Nandeyara [Footnote: "Our Owner," the most beautiful word for God
I have ever heard.] had placed them at the beginning of the world. Had I discovered the Garden
of Eden, the place from which man had been wandering for 6,000 years? I was conducted by Rocanandiva
(the high priest) down a steep path to the valley, where we came in view of several large peculiarly
shaped houses, built of bamboo. Near these dwellings were perhaps a hundred men, women and
children, remnants of a vanishing nation. Some had a mat around their loins, but many were
naked. All the males had the barbote in the lip, and had exceptionally thick hair, matted with
grease and mud. Most of them had a repellant look on their pigment-painted faces, and I could
very distinctly see that I was not a welcome visitor. No, I had not reached Eden! Only "beyond
the clouds and beyond the tomb" would the bowers of Eden be discovered to me. Hearing domestic
hens cackling around the houses, I bade Timoteo tell the priest that we were very hungry, and
that if he killed two chickens for us I would give him a beautiful gift later on. The priest
distinctly informed me, however, that I must give first, or no fowl would be killed. From that
decision I tried to move him, urging that I was tired, the pack was hard to undo, and to-morrow,
when I was rested, I would well repay them the kindness. My words were thrown away; not a bite
should we eat until the promised knife was given. I was faint with hunger, but from the load
on the packhorse I procured the knife, which I handed to my unwilling host with the promise
of other gifts later. On receipt of this treasure he gave orders to the boys standing off at
a distance to catch two chickens. The birds were knocked over by the stones thrown at them.
Two women now came forward with clay pots on their heads and fire-sticks in their hands, and
they superintended the cooking. Without cutting off either heads or legs, or pulling out the
birds' feathers, the chickens were placed in the pots with water. Lying down near the fire,
I, manlike, impatiently waited for supper. Perhaps a minute had dragged its weary length along
when I picked up a stick from the ground and poked one of the fowls out of the water, which
was not yet warm. Holding the bird in one hand, and pulling feathers out of my mouth with the
other, I ate as my forefathers did ages ago. Years before this I had learned that a hungry
man can eat what an epicure despises. After this feast I lay down on the ground behind one
of the tepees, and, with my head resting on my most valued possessions, went to sleep.

Having promised to give the priest and his wife another present, I was awakened very early
next morning. They had come for their gifts. Rising from my hard bed, I stretched myself and
awoke my servant, under whose head were the looking-glasses. I presented one of these to the
woman, who looked in it with satisfaction and evident pleasure. Whether she was pleased with
her reflection or with the glass I cannot tell, but I feel sure it must have been the latter!
A necklace to the daughter and a further gift to the old man gained their friendship, and food
was brought to us. After partaking of this I was informed that the king desired to see me,
and that I must proceed at once to his hut.

His majesty (?) lived on the other side of the river, close at hand. This water was of course
unbridged, so, in order to cross, I was compelled to divest myself of my clothing and walk
through it in nature's garb. The water came up to my breast, and once I thought the clothes
I carried on my head would get wet. Dressing on the other side, I presented myself at the king's
abode. There I was kindly received, being invited to take up my quarters with him and his royal
family. The king was a tall man of somewhat commanding appearance, but, save for the loin cloth,
he was naked, like the rest. The queen, a little woman, was as scantily dressed as her husband.
She was very shy, and I noticed the rest of the inmates of the hut peeping through the crevices
of the corn-stalk partition of an inner room. After placing around the shapely neck of the
queen a specially fine necklace I had brought, and giving the king a large hunting-knife, I
was regaled with roasted yams, and later on with a whole watermelon.

Timoteo, my servant, whose native language was Guarani, could understand most of the idiom
of the Sun Worshippers, which we found to be similar to that spoken by the civilized inhabitants
of the country. There must therefore have been some connection between the two peoples at one
time. The questions, "Where have you come from?" "Why have you come?" were asked and answered,
and I, in return, learned much of this strange tribe. Mate was served, but whereas in the outside
world a rusty tin tube to suck it through is in possession of even the poorest, here they used
only a reed. I was astonished to find the mate sweetened. Knowing that they could not possibly
have any of the luxuries of civilization, I made enquiries regarding this, and was told that
they used a herb which grew in the valley, to which they gave the name of ca-ha he-he (sweet
herb). This plant, which is not unlike clover, is sweet as sugar, whether eaten green or in
a dried state.

There was not a seat of any description in the hut, but the king said, "Eguapu" ("Sit down"),
so I squatted on the earthen floor. A broom is not to be found in the kingdom, and the house
had never been swept!

A curiosity I noticed was the calabash which the king carried attached to his belt. This relic
was regarded with great reverence, and at first His Majesty declined to reveal its character;
but after I had won his confidence by gifts of beads and mirrors, he became more communicative.
One day, in a burst of pride, he told me that the gourd contained the ashes of his ancestors,
who were the ancient kings. Though the Spaniards sought to carefully rout out and destroy all
direct descendants of the royal family of the Incas, their historians tell us that some remote
connections escaped. The Indians of Peru have legends to the effect that at the time of the
Spanish invasion an Inca chieftain led an emigration of his people down the mountains. Humboldt,
writing in the 18th century, said: "It is interesting to inquire whether any other princes
of the family of Manco Capac have remained in the forests; and if there still exist any of
the Incas of Peru in other places." Had I discovered some descendants of this vanished race?
The Montreal Journal, commenting on my discovery, said: "The question is of extreme interest
to the scientific enquirer, even if they are not what Mr. Ray thinks them."

The royal family consisted of the parents, a son and his wife, a daughter and her husband,
and two younger girls. I was invited to sleep in the inner room, which the parents occupied,
and the two married couples remained in the common room. All slept in fibre hammocks, made
greasy and black by the smoke from the fire burning on the floor in the centre of the room.
No chimney, window, door, or article of furniture graced the house.

"The court of the Incas rivalled that of Rome, Jerusalem, or any of the old Oriental countries,
in riches and show, the palaces being decorated with a great profusion of gold, silver, fine
cloth and precious stones." [Footnote: Rev. Thomas Wood, LL.D., Lima, Peru, In "Protestant
Missions in South America."]

An ancient Spanish writer who measured some of the stones of the Incan palace at Cuzco tells
us there were stones so nicely adjusted that it was impossible to introduce even the blade
of a knife between them, and that some of those stones were thirty-eight feet long, by eighteen
feet broad, and six feet thick. What a descent for the "Children of the Sun"! "How are the
mighty fallen!" Thoughts of the past and the mean present passed through my mind as I lay down
in the dust of the earthen floor that first night of my stay with the king.

Owing to the thousands of fleas in the dust of the room it was hard
for me to rest much, and that night a storm brewing made sleep almost
impossible. As the thunder pealed forth all the Indians of the houses
hastily got out of their hammocks and grasped gourd rattles and
beautifully woven cotton banners. The rattles were shaken
 and the banners waved, while a droning chant was struck up by the
high priest, and the louder the thunder rolled the louder their
voices rose and the more lustily they shook the seeds in their
calabashes. They were trying to appease the dread deity of Thunder,
as did their Inca ancestors. The voice of the old priest led the
worship, and for four hours there was no cessation of the
monotonous song, except when he performed some mystic ceremony which
I understood not.

Just as the old priest had awakened me the first morning to ask for his present, so the king
came tapping me gently the second. In his hand he had a large sweet potato, and in my half-dreamy
state I heard him saying, "Give me your coat. Eat a potato?" The change I thought was greatly
to his advantage, but I was anxious to please him. I possessed two coats, while he was, as
he said, a poor old man, and had no coat. The barter was concluded; I ate the potato, and he,
with strange grimaces, donned a coat for the first time in his life. Think of this for an alleged
descendant of the great Atahuallpa, whose robes and jewels were priceless!

I offered to give the queen a feminine garment of white cotton if she would wear it, but this
I could not prevail upon her to do; it was "ugly." As a loin-cloth, she would use it, but put
it on--no! In the latter savage style the shaped garment was thereafter worn. Women have fashions
all over the globe.

The few inches of clothing worn by the Caingwa women are never washed, and the only attempt
at cleansing the body I saw when among them was that of a woman who filled her mouth with water
and squirted it back on her hands, which she then wiped on her loin-cloth!

The shapely little mouth of the queen was spoilt by the habit she had of smoking a heavy pipe
made of red clay. I was struck with the weight and shape of this, for it exactly resembled
those made by the old cliff-dwellers, unknown centuries ago. One will weigh at least a quarter
of a pound. For a mouth-piece they use a bird's quill. The tobacco they grow themselves.

Near the royal abode were the kitchen gardens. A tract of forest had been fired, and this clearing
planted with bananas, mandioca, sweet potatoes, etc. The blackened trunks of the trees rose
up like so many evil spirits above the green foliage. The garden implements used were of the
most primitive description; a crooked stick served for hoe, and long, heavy, sharpened iron-wood
clubs were used instead of the steel plough of civilization.

As I have already remarked, I found the people were sun-worshippers. Each morning, just as
the rising sun lit up the eastern sky, young and old came out of their houses, the older ones
carrying empty gourds with the dry seeds inside. At a signal from the high priest, a solemn
droning chant was struck up, to the monotonous time kept by the numerous gourd rattles. As
the sun rose higher and higher, the chanting grew louder and louder, and the echoes of "He!
he! he! ha! ha! ha! laima! laima!" were repeated by the distant hills. When the altar of incense
(described later) was illuminated by the sun-god, the chanting ceased.

After this solemn worship of the Orb of Day, the women, with quiet demeanor and in single file,
went off to their work in the gardens. On returning, each carried a basket made of light canes,
slung on the back and held up by plaited fibres forming a band which came across their foreheads.
The baskets contained the day's vegetables. Meat was seldom eaten by them, but this was probably
because of its scarcity, for when we killed an ostrich they clamored for a share. Reptiles
of all kinds, and even caterpillars, are devoured by them when hungry.

The Caingwas are under the average height, but use the longest bows and arrows I have ever
seen. Some I brought away measure nearly seven feet in length. The points are made of sharpened
iron-wood, notched like the back of a fish-hook, and they are poisoned with serpent venom.
Besides these weapons, it was certainly strange to find them living in the stone age, for in
the hands of the older members of the tribe were to be seen stone axes. The handles of these
primitive weapons are scraped into shape by flints, as probably our savage forefathers in Britain
did theirs two thousand years ago.

Entering the low, narrow doorway of one of the bamboo frame houses, I saw that it was divided
into ten-foot squares by corn-stalk partitions a yard high. These places, like so many stalls
for horses, run down each side of the hoga. One family occupies a division, sleeping in net
hammocks made of long, coarse grass. A "family man" usually has bands of human hair twisted
around his legs below the knees, and also around the wrists. This hair is torn from his wife's
head. Down the centre are numerous fires for cooking purposes, but the house was destitute
of chimney. Wood is burned, and the place was at times so full of smoke that I could not distinguish
one Indian from another. Fortunately, the walls of the house, as was also the roof, were in
bad repair, and some of the smoke escaped through the chinks. Sixty people lived in the largest
hoga, and I judged the number of the whole tribe to be about three hundred.

The doorways of all the houses faced towards the east, as did those of the Inca. In the principal
one, where the high priest lived, a square altar of red clay was erected. I quickly noticed
that on this elevation, which was about a yard high, there burned a very carefully tended fire
of holy wood. Enquiring the meaning of this, I was informed that, very many moons ago, Nande-yara
had come in person to visit the tribe, and when with them had lit the fire, which, he said,
they must not under any circumstances suffer to die out. Ever since then the smoke of the incense
had ascended to their "Owner" in his far-off dwelling.

How forcibly was I reminded of the scripture referring to the Jewish altar of long ago, "There
the fire shall ever be burning upon the altar; it shall never go out." If I had not discovered
Eden, I had at least found the altar and fire of Edenic origin.

Behind the altar, occupying the stall directly opposite the doorway, stood the tribal god.
As the Caingwas are sun-worshippers, I was surprised to see this, but Rocanandivia, with grave
demeanor, told me that when Nandeyara departed from them he left behind him his representative.
In the chapter on Mariolatry, I have traced the natural tendency of man to sink from spiritual
to image worship, and I found that the Caingwas, like all pagans, had reverted to a something
they could see and feel. Remembering that they had never heard the second commandment, written
by God because of this failing in man, we can excuse them, but what shall be said of the enlightened
Romanists?

Being exceedingly anxious to procure their "Copy of God," I tried to bargain with the priest.
I offered him one thing and another, but to all my proposals he turned a deaf ear, and finally,
glaring at me, said that nothing would ever induce him to part with it. The people would never
allow the image to be taken away, as the life of the tribe was bound up with it Seeing that
he was not to be moved, I desisted, though a covetous look in his eye when I offered a beautiful
colored rug in exchange gave me hope, Rocanandiva was, like most idolatrous priests, very fanatical.
When he learned that I professed and taught a different religion, his jealousy was most marked,
and he often told me to go from them, I was not wanted. Living with the king, however, saved
me from ejection.

One day the priest, ever on the beg, was anxious to obtain some article from me, and I determined
to give it only on one condition. Being anxious to tell the people the story of Jesus, I had
repeatedly asked permission of him, but had been as often repulsed. They did not want me, or
any new "words," he would reply. Turning to him now, I said, "Rocanandiva, if you will allow
me to tell 'words' to the people you shall have the present." The priest turned on his heel
and left me. Knowing his cupidity, I was not surprised when, later, he came to me and said
that I could tell them words, and held out his hand for the gift.

After sun-worship next morning the king announced that I had something new to tell them. When
all were seated on the ground in wondering silence, I began in simple language to tell "the
old, old story." My address was somewhat similar to the following: "Many moons ago, Nandeyara,
looking down from his abode, saw that all the men and women and children in the world were
bad; that is, they had done wrong things, such as . . . Now God has a Son, and to Him He said,
Look down and see. All are doing wicked things! He looked and saw. The Father said that for
their sin they should have to die, but that Jesus, His Son, could come down and die in their
place. The Son came, and lived on earth many moons; but was hated, and at last caught, and
large pieces of iron (like the priest's knife) were put into His hands and feet, and He was
fastened to a tree. After this a man came, and, with a very long knife, brought the blood out
of the side of Jesus, and He died." Purposing to further explain my story, I was not pleased
when the priest stopped me, and, stepping forth, told the people that my account was not true.
He then in eloquent tones related to them what he called the real story, to which I listened
in amazed wonder.

"Many moons ago," he began, "we were dying of hunger! One day the
Sun, our god, changed into a man, and he walked down that road."
(Here he pointed to the east.) "The chief met him. 'All your people
are dying of hunger,' said god. 'Yes, they are,' the chief replied.
'Will you die instead of all the people?' Nandeyara said. 'Yes, I
will,' the chief answered. He immediately dropped down dead, and god
came to the village where we all are now. 'Your chief is lying dead
up the road,' he said, 'go and bury him, and after three days are
passed visit the grave, when you will find a plant growing out of
 his mouth; that will be corn, and it will save you!'" Then, turning
to me, the priest said: "This we did, and behold us alive! That is
the story!" Strange that so many aboriginal people have legends so
near the truth.

Some days later the chiefs son and I were alone, and I saw that something troubled him. He
tried to tell me, but I was somewhat ignorant of his language, so, after looking in all directions
to see that we were really alone, he led the way into a dark corner of the hoga, where we were.
There, from under a pile of garden baskets, calabashes, etc., he brought out a peculiarly-shaped
gourd, full of some red, powdery substance. This, with trembling haste, he put into my hand,
and seemed greatly relieved when I had it securely. Going then to the corner where I kept my
goods, he took up a box of matches and made signs for me to exchange, which I did. When Timoteo
returned I learned that the young man was custodian of the devil--the only and original one--and
that he had palmed him off on me for a box of matches! How the superstition of the visible
presence of the devil originated I have no idea, but there might be some meaning in the man's
earnest desire to exchange it for matches, or lights, the emblem of their fire or sun-worship.
Was this simple deal fallen man's feeble effort to rid himself of the Usurper and get back
the Father, for it is very significant that the Caingwa word, ta-ta (light), signifies also
father. Do they need light, or are they sufficiently illumined for time and eternity? Will
the reader reverently stand with me, in imagination, beside an Indian grave? A girl has died
through snake poisoning. A shallow grave has been dug for her remains. Into this hole her body
has been dropped, uncoffined, in a sitting position. Beside the body is placed some food and
a few paltry trinkets, and the people stand around with that disconsolate look which is only
seen upon the faces of those who know not the Father. As they thus linger, the witch-doctor
asks, "Is the dog killed?" Someone replies, "Yes, the dog is killed." "Is the head cut off?"
is then asked. "Yes, the head is off," is the reply. "Put it in the grave, then," says the
medicine man; and then the dog's head is dropped at the girl's feet.

Why do they do this? you ask. Question their wise man, and he will say: "A dog is a very clever
animal. He can always find his way. A girl gets lost when alone. For that reason we place a
dog's head with her, that it may guide her in the spirit life." I ask again, "Do they need
missionaries?"

My stay with the sun-worshippers, though interesting, was painful. Excepting when we cooked
our own food, I almost starved. Their habits are extremely filthy, indeed more loathsome and
disgusting than I dare relate.

My horses were by now refreshed with their rest, and appeared able for the return journey,
so I determined to start back to civilization. The priest heard of my decision with unfeigned
joy, but the king and queen were sorrowful. These pressed me to return again some time, but
said I must bring with me a boca (gun) like my own for the king, with some more strings of
white beads for the queen's wrists.

While saddling our horses in the grey dawn, the wily priest came to me with a bundle, and,
quietly drawing me aside, said that Nandeyara was inside, and in exchange for the bright rug
I could take him away. The exchange was made, and I tied their god, along with bows and arrows,
etc., on the back of a horse, and we said farewell. I had strict orders to cover up the idol
from the eyes of the people until we got away. Even when miles distant, I kept looking back,
fearing that the duped Indians were following in enraged numbers. Of course, the priest would
give out that I had stolen the image.

Ah, Rocanandiva, you are not the first who has been willing to sell his god for worldly gain!
The hand of Judas burned with "thirty pieces of silver," the earthly value of the Divine One.
Pilate, for personal profit, said: "Let Him be crucified." And millions to-day sell Him for
"a mess of pottage."

The same horse bore away the devil and god, so perhaps without the one there would be no need
of the other.

So prolific is the vegetation that during our few weeks' stay with the Indians the creeping
thorns and briars had almost covered up the path we had cut through the forest, and it was
again necessary to use our machetes. The larger growth, however, being down, this was not difficult,
and we entered its sombre stillness once more. What strange creatures people its tangled recesses
we knew not.

     "For beasts and birds have seen and heard
     That which man knoweth not."

I hurried through with little wish to penetrate its secret. Mere existence was hard enough
in its steaming semi-darkness. Our clothes were now almost torn to shreds (I had sought to
mend mine with horse- hair thread, with poor results), and we duly emerged into daylight on
the other side, ragged, torn and dirty.

Our journey back to civilization was similar to the outward way. We selected a slightly different
route, but left the old chief safe and well with his people.

One night our horses were startled by a bounding jaguar, and were so terrified that they broke
away and scattered in all directions. Searching for them detained us a whole day, but fortunately
we were able to round them all up again. Two were found in a wood of strangely-shaped bushes,
whose large, tough leaves rustled like parchment.

One afternoon a heavy rain came on, and we stopped to construct a shelter of green branches,
into which we crept. The downpour became so heavy that it dripped through our hastily-constructed
arbor, and we were soon soaking wet. Owing to the dampness of the fuel, it was only after much
patient work that we were able to light a fire and dry our clothes. There we remained for three
days, Timoteo sighing for Pegwaomi, and the wind sighing still louder, to our discomfort. Everything
we had was saturated. Sleeping on the soaking ground, the poisonous tarantula spiders crept
over us. These loathsome creatures, second only to the serpent, are frequently so large as
to spread their thick, hairy legs over a six-inch diameter.

The storm passed, and we started off towards the river Ipane, which was now considerably swollen.
Three times on the expedition we had halted to build rough bridges over chasms or mountain
streams with perpendicular banks, but this was broad and had to be crossed through the water.
As I rode the largest and strongest horse, it was my place to venture first into the rushing
stream. The animal bravely stemmed the current, as did the rest, but Old Stabbed Arm, riding
a weaker horse, nearly lost his life. The animal was washed down by the strong current, and
but for the man's previous long experience in swimming rivers he would never have reached the
bank. The pony also somehow struggled through to the side, landing half-drowned, and Old Stabbed
Arm received a few hearty pats on the back. The load on the mare was further soaked, but most
of our possessions had been ruined long ago. My cartridges I had slung around my neck, and
I held the photographic plates in my teeth, while the left hand carried my gun, so these were
preserved. To my care on that occasion the reader is indebted for some of the illustrations
in this volume. Nandeyara got another wash, but he had been wet before, and never complained!

On the farther side of the river was a deserted house, and we could distinctly trace the heavy
footprints of a tapir leading up the path and through the open doorway. We entered with caution.
Was the beast in then? No. He had gone out by a back way, probably made by himself, through
the wattled wall. We could see the place was frequented very often by wild pigs, which had
left hundreds of footprints in the three-inch depth of dust on the floor. There we lit a fire
to again dry our clothes, and prepared to pass the night, expecting a visit from the hogs.
Had they appeared when we were ready for them, the visit would not have been unwelcome. Food
was hard to procure, and animals did not come very often to be shot. Had they found us asleep,
however, the waking would have been terrible indeed, for they will eat human flesh just as
ravenously as roots. After spreading our saddle-cloths on the dust and filth, Old Stabbed Arm
and I were chatting about the Caingwas and their dirty habits, when Timoteo, heaving a sigh
of relief, said: "Thank God, we are clean at last!" He was satisfied with the pigpen as he
recalled the hoga of the Sun- Worshippers.

 At last the village of Pegwaomi was reached, and, oh, we were not
sorry, for the havoc of the jiggers in our feet was getting terrible!
The keen-eyed inhabitants caught sight of us while we were still
distant, and when we reined up, Timoteo's aged mother tremblingly
said, "Yoape" ("Come here") to him, and she wept as she embraced
her boy. Truly, there was no sight so sweet to "mother" as that of
her ragged, travel-stained son; and Timoteo, the strong man, wept.
The fatted calf was then killed a few yards from the doorstep, by
having its throat cut. Offal littered up the doorway, and the
children in their glee danced in the red blood. The dogs' tails and
the women's tongues wagged merrily, making us feel that we were
joined on to the world again. I was surprised to find that we were
days out of reckoning; I had been keeping Sunday on Thursday!

During this stay at Pegwaomi I nearly lost Old Stabbed Arm. The day after we returned our hostess
very seriously asked me if he might marry her daughter. Thinking he had sent her to ask, I
consented. It was a surprise to learn afterwards that he knew nothing at all of the matter.

Although Pegwaomi gained no new inhabitant, I secured what proved to be one of the truest and
most faithful friends of my life--a little monkey. His name was Mr. Pancho. With him it was
love at first sight, and from that time onward, I believe, he had only two things in his mind--his
food and his master. He would cry when I left him, and hug and kiss me on my return. Pancho
rode the pack-mare into the village of Concepcion, and busied himself on the way catching butterflies
and trying to grasp the multi-colored humming-birds hovering over the equally beautiful passion-flowers
growing in the bushes on each side of the path.

Surely a stranger sight was never seen on the streets of Concepcion than that of a tired, dusty
pack-horse bearing a live monkey, a dead god, and an equally dead devil on his back! Mrs. Sorrows
was overjoyed to see me return, and earnestly told me that my first duty was to hurry down
to the store and buy two colored candles to burn before her saint, who had brought me back,
even though I was a heretic, which fact she greatly lamented. We had been given up as lost
months before, for word came down that I had been killed by Indians. Here I was, however, safe
and fairly well, saving that the ends of two of my toes had rotted off with jiggers, and fever
burned in my veins! Mrs. Dolores doctored my feet with tobacco ashes as I reclined in a hammock
under the lime trees surrounding her hut. I did not buy the candles, but she did; and while
I silently thanked a Higher Power, and the ta-tas burned to her deity, she informed me that
my countryman, the prodigal, had been carried to the "potters' field." Not all prodigals reach
home again; some are buried by the swine-troughs.

For some time I was unable to put my feet to the ground; but Pancho, ever active, tied in a
fig tree, helped himself to ripe fruit, and took life merrily. Pancho and I were eventually
able to bid good-bye to Mrs. Sorrows, and, thousands of miles down life's pathway, this little
friend and I journeyed together, he ever loving and true. I took him across the ocean, away
from his tropical home, and--he died. I am not sentimental--nay, I have been accused of hardness--but
I make this reference to Pancho in loving memory. Unlike some friends of my life, he was constant
and true. [Footnote: From letters awaiting me at the post-office, I learned, with intense sorrow
and regret, that my strange patron had gone "the way of all flesh" The land I had been to explore,
along-with a bequest of $250,000, passed into the hands of the Baptist Missionary Society,
to the Secretary of which Society all my reports were given.]

CHAPTER XI.

CHACO SAVAGES.

The Gran Chaco, an immense region in the interior of the continent, said to be 2,500,000 square
miles in extent, is, without doubt, the darkest part of "The Darkest Land." From time immemorial
this has been given up to the Indians; or, rather, they have proved so warlike that the white
man has not dared to enter the vast plain. The Chaco contains a population of perhaps 3,000,000
of aborigines. These are divided into many tribes, and speak numerous languages. From the military
outposts of Argentina at the south, to the Fort of Olimpo, 450 miles north, the country is
left entirely to the savage. The former are built to keep back the Tobas from venturing south,
and the latter is a Paraguayan fort on the Brazilian frontier. Here about one hundred soldiers
are quartered and some fifty women banished, for the Paraguayan Government sends its female
convicts there. [Footnote: The women are not provided with even the barest necessities of life.
Here they are landed and, perforce, fasten themselves like leeches on the licentious soldiery.
I speak from personal knowledge, for I have visited the "hell" of Paraguay.] Between these
forts and Bolivia, on the west, I have been privileged to visit eight different tribes of Indians,
all of them alike degraded and sunken in the extreme; savage and wild as man, though originally
made in the image of God, can be.

The Chaco is a great unknown land. The north, described by Mr. Minchin, Bolivian Government
Explorer, as "a barren zone--an almost uninterrupted extent of low, thorny scrub, with great
scarcity of water," and the centre and south, as I have seen in exploring journeys, great plains
covered with millions of palm trees, through which the astonished traveller can ride for weeks
without seeing any limit. In the dry season the land is baked by the intense heat of the tropical
sun, and cracked into deep fissures. In the rainy season it is an endless marsh--a veritable
dead man's land. During a 200-mile ride, 180 lay through water with the sun almost vertical.
All this country in past ages must have been the bed of a great salt sea.

As I have said, the Chaco is peculiarly Indian territory, into which the white man steps at
his peril. I accepted a commission, however, to examine and report on certain parts of it,
so I left the civilized haunts of men and set foot on the forbidden ground.

My first introduction to the savages in Chaco territory was at their village of Teepmuckthlawhykethy
(The Place Where the Cows Arrived). They were busy devouring a dead cow and a newly-born calf,
and I saw their naked bodies through such dense clouds of mosquitos that in one clap of the
hands I could kill twenty or thirty. This Indian toldo consists of three large wigwams, in
which live about eighty of the most degraded aborigines to be found on earth. When they learned
I was not one of the Christians from across the river, and that I came well introduced, they
asked: Did I come across the big water in a dug-out? Was it a day's journey? Would I give them
some of "the stuff that resembles the eggs of the ant?" (their name for rice).

I was permitted to occupy a palm hut without a roof, but I slept under a tiger's skin, and
that kept off dew and rain. They reserved the right to come and go in it as they pleased. The
women, with naked babies astride their hips, the usual way of carrying them, were particularly
annoying. A little girl, however, perhaps ten years old, named Supupnik (Sawdust), made friends
with me, and that friendship lasted during all my stay with them. Her face was always grotesquely
painted, but she was a sweet child.

These Indians are of normal stature, and are always erect and stately, perhaps because all
burdens are borne by straps on the forehead. The expression of the savage is peculiar, for
he pulls out all the hair on his face, even the eyelashes and eyebrows, and seems to think
the omission of that act would be a terrible breach of cleanliness. These same individuals
will, however, frequently be seen with their whole body so coated with dirt that it could easily
be scraped off with a knife in cakes, as the housewife would scrape a burnt loaf! The first
use to which the women put the little round tin looking-glasses, which I used for barter, was
to admire their pretty (?) faces; but the men, with a sober look, would search for the detested
hair on lip or chin. That I was so lost to decency as to suffer a moustache to cover my lip
was to them a constant puzzle and wonder, for in every other respect the universal opinion
was that I was a civilized kind of "thing." I write thing advisedly, for the white man is to
them an inferior creation--not a person.

In place of a beard or moustache, the inhabitant of the Chaco prefers to paint his face, and
sometimes he makes quite an artistic design.

These wild inhabitants of Central South America generally wear a skin around the loins, or
a string of ostrich feathers. Some tribes, as, for example, the Chamacocos, dispense with either.
The height of fashion is to wear strings of tigers' teeth, deer's hoofs, birds' bills, etc.,
around the neck. Strings of feathers or wool are twisted around ankles and wrists, while the
thickly matted hair is adorned with plumes, standing upright.

The men insert round pieces of wood in the lobe of the ear. Boys of tender age have a sharp
thorn pushed through the ear, where more civilized nations wear earrings. This hole is gradually
enlarged until manhood, when a round piece, two inches in diameter and one and a half inches
thick, can be worn, not depending from the ear, but in the gristle of it. The cartilage is
thus so distended that only a narrow rim remains around the ornament, and this may often be
seen broken out. Sometimes three or four rattles from the tail of the rattlesnake also hang
from the ear on to the shoulder.

These tribes of the Chaco were all vassals of the Inca at the advent of the Spaniards. They
had been by them reclaimed from savagery, and taught many useful arts, one or two of which,
such as the making of blankets and string, they still retain. The Inca used the ear ornaments
of solid gold, but made in the form of a wheel. The nearest approach to this old custom is
when the wooden ear-plug is painted thus, as are some in the author's possession.

I was fortunate in gaining the favor of the tribe living near the river, and because of certain
favors conferred upon them, was adopted into the family. My face was painted, my head adorned
with ostrich plumes, and I was given the name of Wanampangapthling ithma (Big Cactus Red Mouth).
Because of this formal initiation, I was privileged to travel where I chose, but to the native
Paraguayan or Argentine the Chaco is a forbidden land. The Indian describes himself as a man;
monkeys are little men; I was a thing; but the Paraguayans are Christians, and that is the
lowest degree of all. The priests they see on the other side of the river are Yankilwana (neither
man nor woman); and a Yankilwana, in his distinctive garb, could never tread this Indian soil.
So abhorrent to them is the name of Christian, that the missionaries have been compelled to
use another word to describe their converts, and they are called "Followers of Jesus." All
the members of some large expeditions have been massacred just because they were Christians.
Surely this is convincing corroboration of my remarks regarding the state of Roman Catholicism
in those dark lands.

A few miserable-looking, diminutive sheep are kept by some tribes, and the blankets referred
to are made from the wool, which is torn off the sheep with a sharp shell, or, if near the
coast, with a knife. The blankets are woven by hand across two straight branches of tree, and
they are sometimes colored in various shades. A bulbous root they know of dyes brown, the cochineal
insect red, and the bark of a tree yellow. String is made from the fibre of the caraguatai
plant, and snail shells are used to extract the fibre. This work is, of course, done by the
women, as is also the making of the clay pots they use for cooking. The men only hunt.

All sleep on the ground, men, women, children and dogs, promiscuously. The wigwams are nothing
more than a few branches stuck in the ground and tied at the top. The sides are left open.
Very often even this most primitive of dwellings is dispensed with, and the degraded beings
crawl under the shelter of the bushes. Furniture of any kind they are, of course, wit-out,
and their destitution is only equalled by the African pigmy or the Australian black.

The Chaco is essentially a barren land, and the Indians' time seems almost fully taken up in
procuring food. The men, with bows and arrows, hunt the deer, ostrich, fox, or wolf, while
the women forage for roots and wild fruit.

One tribe in the north of the Chaco are cannibals, and they occasionally make war on their
neighbors just to obtain food.

A good vegetable diet is the cabbage, which grows in the heart of certain palms, and weighs
three or four pounds. To secure this the tree has perforce to be cut down. To the Indian without
an axe this is no light task. The palm, as is well known, differs from other trees by its having
the seat of life in the head, and not in the roots; so when the cabbage is taken out the tree dies.

Anything, everything, is eaten for food, and a roasted serpent or boiled fox is equally relished.
During my stay among them I ceased to ask of what the mess was composed; each dish was worse
than the former. Among the first dishes I had were mandioca root, a black carrion bird, goat's
meat, and fox's head. The puma, otter, ant-bear, deer, armadillo, and ostrich are alike eaten,
as is also the jaguar, a ferocious beast of immense size. I brought away from those regions
some beautiful skins of this animal, the largest of which measures nearly nine feet from nose
to tail.

In the sluggish, almost salt, streams, fish are numerous, and these are shot by the Indian
with arrows, to which is attached a string of gut. Lakes and rivers are also filled with hideous-looking
alligators of all sizes. These grow to the length of twelve or fifteen feet in these warm waters,
and the tail is considered quite a delicacy. Besides these varied dishes, there is the electric
eel; and, sunk in a yard depth of mud, is the lollock, of such interest to naturalists The
lollock is a fish peculiar to the Chaco. Though growing to the length of three and four feet,
it has only rudimentary eyes, and is, in consequence, quite blind; it is also unable to swim.
The savage prods in the mud with a long notched lance, sometimes for hours, until he sticks
the appetizing fish.

The steamy waters are so covered with aquatic plants that in some places I have been able to
walk across a living bridge. Once, when out hunting, I came upon a beautiful forest glade,
covered with a carpet of green. Thinking it a likely place for deer, I entered, when lo, I
sank in a fotid lake of slime. Throwing my gun on to the bank, I had quite a difficulty to
regain dry land.

In my journeyings here and there I employed one or another of the braves to accompany me. All
they could eat and some little present was the pay. No sooner was the gift in their hand, however,
after supper, than they would put it back in mine and say, "Give me some more food?" I was
at first accompanied by Yantiwau (The Wolf Rider). Armed with a bow and arrows, he was a good
hunter for me, and a faithful servant, but his custom of spitting on my knife and spoon to
clean them I did not like. When my supplies were getting low, and I went to the river for a
wash, he would say: "There's no kiltanithliacack (soap)--only clupup (sand)." Yantiwau was
interested in pictures; he would gaze with wondering eyes at photos, or views of other lands,
but he looked at them the wrong side up, as they all invariably do. While possessed of a profound
respect for me in some ways, he thought me very lacking in common knowledge. While I was unable
to procure game, through not seeing any, he could call the bird to him in a "ducky, ducky,
come and be killed" kind of way; and my tongue was parched when he would scent water. This
was sometimes very easy to smell, however, for it was almost impossible to drink out of a waterhole
without holding the nose and straining the liquid through my closed teeth. Chaco water at best
is very brackish, and on drying off the ground a white coat of salt is left.

My Indian's first and last thought was of his stomach. While capable of passing two or three
days without eating, and feeling no pangs of hunger, yet, when food was to hand, he gorged
himself, and could put away an incredible amount. Truly, his make-up was a constant wonder
to me. Riding through the "hungry belt" I would be famishing, but to my question: "Are you
hungry?" he would answer, "No." After a toilsome journey, and no supper at the end: "Would
you like to eat?" "No." But let an ostrich or a deer come in sight, and he could not live another
minute without food! Another proof to Yantiwau of my incapacity was the fact that when my matches
were all used I could not light the fire. He, by rubbing a blunt-pointed hard stick in a groove
of soft wood, could cause such a friction that the dust would speedily ignite, and set fire
to the dry twigs which he was so clever in collecting. Although such a simple process to the
Indian, I never met a white man who could use the firesticks with effect.

Sitting by the camp-fire in the stillness of evening, my guide would draw attention to a shooting
star. "Look! That is a bad witch doctor," he would say. "Did you notice he went to the west?
Well, the Toothlis live there. He has gone for vengeance!"

The wide palm plains are almost uninhabited; I have journeyed eighty miles without sighting
human being or wigwam. In the rainy season the trees stand out of a sea-like expanse of steaming
water, and one may wade through this for twenty miles without finding a dry place for bivouac.
Ant hills, ten and fifteen feet high, with dome-shaped roofs, dot the wild waste like pigmy
houses, and sometimes they are the only dry land found to rest on. The horses flounder through
the mire, or sink up to the belly in slime, while clouds of flies make the life of man and
beast a living death. Keys rust in the pocket, and boots mildew in a day. At other seasons,
as I know by painful experience, the hard-baked ground is cracked up into fissures, and not
a drop of water is to be found in a three days' journey. The miserable savages either sit in
utter dejection on logs of wood or tree roots, viewing the watery expanse, or roam the country
in search of yingmin (water).

Whereas the Caingwas may be described as inoffensive Indians, the inhabitants of the Chaco
are savages, hostile to the white man, who only here and there, with their permission, has
settled on the river bank. Generally a people of fine physique and iron constitution, free
from disease of any kind, they are swept into eternity in an incredibly short space of time
if civilized diseases are introduced. Even the milder ones, such as measles, decimate a whole
tribe; and I have known communities swept away as autumn leaves in a strong breeze with the
grippe. I was informed that the hospital authorities at Asuncion gave them the cast-off fever
clothing of their patients during an epidemic to sweep them off the face of the earth!

The Indians have been ill-treated from the beginning. Darwin relates that, in their eagerness
to exterminate the red men, the Argentine troops have pursued them for three days without food.
On the frontier they are killed in hundreds; by submitting to the white man they die in thousands.
Latin civilization is more terrible to them than war. Sad to state, their only hope is to fight,
and this the savage affirms he will do for ever and ever.

Francia, the Dictator of Paraguay, ordered every Indian found--man, woman or child--to be put
to death! Lopez, a later ruler, took sport in hunting Indians like deer. We are told that on
one occasion he was so successful as to kill forty-eight! The children he captured and sold
into slavery at fifteen and twenty dollars each. The white settler considers himself very brave
if he kills the savage with a rifle sighted at five hundred yards, while well out of range
of the Indians' arrows, and I have known them shot just "for fun"! The Indians retaliate by
cutting off the heels of their white captives, or leaving them, in statu naturae, bound with
thongs on an anthill; and a more terrible death could not be devised by even the inquisitor,
Torquemada, of everlasting execration. The Indian is hard and cruel, indifferent to pain in
himself or others. A serpent may sting a comrade, and he takes no notice; but let one find
food and there is a general scamper to the spot. The Chaco savage is barbarous in the extreme.
The slain enemies are often eaten, and the bones burnt and scattered over their food. The children
of enemies are traded off to other tribes for more food.

The Chaco Indian is a born warrior. Sad to say, his only hope is to fight against the Latin
paleface.

Most of us have at times been able to detect a peculiar aroma in the negro. The keen-scented
savage detects that something in us, and we "smell" to them. Even I, Big Cactus Red Mouth,
was not declared free from a subtle odor, although I washed so often that they wondered my
skin did not come off. They never wash, and in damp weather the dirt peels from them in cakes.
Of course they don't smell!

When a man or woman is, through age, no longer capable of looking after the needs of the body,
a shallow grave is dug, the aged one doubled up until the knees are pressed into the hollow
cheeks, and the back is broken. This terrible work done, the undesired one is dragged by one
leg to the open tomb. Sometimes the face and whole body is so mangled, by being pulled through
thorns and over uneven ground, that it is not recognizable, and the nose has at times been
actually torn off. While sometimes still alive, the body is covered up with mother earth. Frequently
the grave is so shallow that the matted hair may be seen coming out at the top. The burial
is generally made near a wood, and, if passible, under the holy wood tree, which, in their
judgment, has great influence with evil spirits. Wild beasts, attracted by the odor of the
corpse, soon dig up the remains, and before next day it is frequently devoured.

An ordinary burial service may be thus described: A deep cut is first made in the stomach of
the departed one. Into this incision a stone, some bone ash, and a bird's claw are introduced.
The body is then placed over the grave on two sticks, a muttering incantation is said by the
witch doctor, and the sticks are roughly knocked from under the body, so as to permit it to
fall in a sitting posture. A bow and arrows, and some food and cooking utensils, are dropped
into the grave. All shooting stars, according to the Indian belief, are flying stones; hence
the custom of placing a stone in the stomach of the dead. It is supposed to be able to mount
heavenward, and, assuming its true character, become the avenging adversary, and destroy the
one who caused the death--always a bad witch doctor. The bird's claw scratches out the enemy's
heart, and the ashes annihilate the spirit. One of the missionaries in the Lengua tribe stated
that he assisted at the burial of a woman where the corpse fell head foremost into the grave,
the feet remaining up. Four times the attempt to drop her in right was made, with similar results,
and finally the husband deliberately broke his dead wife's neck, and bent the head on to the
back; then he broke her limbs across his knee, and so the ghastly burial was at last completed!
Truly, "the dark places of the earth are full of the habitations of cruelty." Let the one whose
idea is to "leave the pagan in his innocency" visit these savages, and, if he lives to tell
it, his ideas will have undergone a great change. They are lost! and millions have not yet
heard of the "Son of Man," who "came to seek and to save that which was lost."

At the death of any member, the toldo in which he lived is burnt, all his possessions are destroyed,
and the people go into mourning. The hair of both sexes is cut short or pulled out, and each
one has the face blackened with a vegetable dye, which, from experience, I know hardly ever
wears off again. As I have said, everything the man owned in life is burnt and the village
is deserted; all move right away to get out of the presence of the death-giving spirit. To
me the toldo would not only seem abandoned, but the people gone without leaving a trace of
their path; but not so to Wolf Rider, my guide. By the position of the half-burnt wood of the
fire, he could tell the direction they had taken, and the number gone--although each steps
in the other's footprints--whether they were stopping to hunt on the way, and much more he
would never tell me. Some of the missionaries have spent ten years in the Chaco, but cannot
get the savage to teach them this lesson of signs.

In some tribes the aged ones are just "left to die" sitting under a palm-leaf mat. All the
members of the tribe move away and leave them thus. Many are the terrible things my eyes have
witnessed, but surely the most pathetic was the sight of an old woman sitting under the mat.
I was one day riding alone, but had with me two horses, when I caught sight of the palm-leaf
erection and the solitary figure sitting under it. Getting down from my horse, I approached
the woman and offered to take her to a place of safety, promising to feed her and permit her
to live as long as she chose. Would she come with me? I begged and entreated, but the poor
woman would not so much as lift her eyes to mine. The law of her tribe had said she must die,
and the laws are to them unalterable. Most reluctantly, I left her to be eaten later on by
the wild beasts.

Terrible as this custom is, other tribes kill and eat their aged parents "as a mark of respect."
Another tribe will not permit one member to go into the spirit world alone, so they hang another
one, in order that there may be two to enter together.

Whereas the Caingwas are a religious people, even attributing their custom of piercing the
lip to divine commandment, the Chaco aborigines have no god and no religion. Missionaries in
the solitary station I have referred to, after ten years' probing, have been unable to find
any approach to worship in their darkened minda. "The miserable wretches who inhabit that vast
wilderness are so low in the scale of reasoning beings that one might doubt whether or not
they have human souls." [Footnote: Washburn's "History of Paraguay."] These "lost sheep" have
no word to express God, and have no idols. "The poverty of the Indian dialects of the Chaco
is scarcely surpassed by that of the dumb brutes."

These wretched tribes have perfect community of goods; what is secured by one belongs equally
to all. A piece of cloth is either torn up and distributed, or worn in turns by each one. The
shirt which I gave my guide, Yantiwau, for much arduous toil, was worn by one and another alternately.
Much as the savage at first desires to possess some garment, it does not take long for him
to tire of it. All agree with Mark Twain, that "the human skin is the most comfortable of all
costumes," and, clothed in the sunlight, the human form divine is not unlovely.

Sometimes the Indians of the interior take skins, etc., to the Paraguayan towns across the
river. Not knowing the use of money, their little trading is done by barter. Their knowledge
of value is so crude that on one occasion they refused a two-dollar axe for an article, but
gladly accepted a ten-cent knife. The Chaco Indian, however, is seldom seen in civilization.
His home is in the interior of an unknown country, which he wanders over in wild freedom. While
the Caingwas are homekeeping, these savages are nomadic, and could not settle down. The land
is either burnt up or inundated, so they do not plant, but live only by the chase. So bold
and daring are they that a man, armed only with a lance, will attack a savage jaguar; or, diving
under an alligator, he will stab it with a sharpened bone. The same man will run in abject
terror if he thinks he hears spirits.

Though not religious, the savages are exceedingly superstitious, afraid of ghosts and evil
spirits, and the fear of these spectral visitants pursues them through life. During a storm
they vigorously shake their blankets and mutter incantations to keep away supernatural visitors.

All diseases are caused by evil spirits, or the moon; and a comet brings the measles. The help
of the witch doctor has to be sought on all occasions, for his special work is to drive away
the evil spirit that has taken possession of a sick one. This he does by rattling a hollow
calabash containing stones. That important person will perform his mystic hocus pocus over
the sick or dying, and charm away the spirits from a neighborhood. I have known an Indian,
when in great pain through having eaten too much, send for the old fakir, who, after examination
of the patient and great show of learning, declared that the suffering one had two tigers in
his stomach. A very common remedy is the somewhat scientific operation of bleeding a patient,
but the manner is certainly uncommon--the witch doctor sucks out the blood. One I was acquainted
with, among the Lengua tribe, professed to suck three cats out of a man's stomach. His professional
name was thereafter "Father of Kittens." The doctor's position is not one to be envied, however,
for if three consecutive patients die, he must follow them down the dark trail!

These medicine-men are experts in poisons, and their enemies have a way of dying suddenly.
It cannot be denied that the Indians have a very real knowledge of the healing virtues of many
plants. The writer has marvelled at the cures he has seen, and was not slow to add some of
their methods to his medical knowledge. Not a few who have been healed, since the writer's
return to civilization, owe their new life to the knowledge there learned.

Infanticide is practised in every tribe, and in my extensive wanderings among eight toldos,
I never met a family with more than two children. The rest are killed! A child is born, and
the mother immediately knocks it on the head with a club! After covering the baby with a layer
of earth, the woman goes about as if nothing had occurred. One chief of the Lengua tribe, that
I met, had himself killed nineteen children. An ironwood club is kept in each toldo for this
gruesome work. Frequently a live child is buried with a dead parent; but I had better leave
much of their doings in the inkpot.

When a girl enters the matrimonial market, at about the age of twelve or thirteen, her face
is specially colored with a yellow paint, made from the flower of the date palm, and the aspirant
to her hand brings a bundle of firewood, neatly tied up, which he places beside her earthen
bed at early morning. As the rising sun gilds the eastern sky, the girl awakes out of her sleep,
rubs her eyes,--and sees the sticks. Well does she know the meaning of it, and a glad light
flashes in her dark eyes as she cries out, "Who brought the sticks?" All men, women and children,
take up the cry, and soon the whole encampment resounds with, "Who brought the sticks?" The
medicine-man, who sleeps apart from the "common herd" under an incense-tree, hears the din,
and, quickly donning his head-dress, hurries down to the scene. With an authoritative voice,
which even the chief himself does not use, he demands, "Who brought the sticks?" until a young
brave steps forward in front of him and replies, "Father of Kittens, I brought the sticks."
This young man is then commanded to stand apart, the girl is hunted out, and together they
wait while the witch-doctor X-rays them through and through. After this close scrutiny, they
are asked: "Do you want this man?" "Do you want this girl?" To which they reply, "Yes, Father
of Kittens, I do." Then, with great show of power, the medicine-man says, "Go!" and off the
newly-married pair start, to live together until death (in the form of burial) does them part.

It may be a great surprise to the reader to learn that these savages are exceedingly moral.
Infidelity between man and wife is punished with death, but in all my travels I only heard
of one such case. A man marries only one wife, and although any expression of love between
them is never seen, they yet seem to think of one another in a tender way, and it is especially
noticeable that the parents are kind to their children.

One evening I rode into an encampment of savages who were celebrating a feast. About fifty
specially-decked-out Indians were standing in a circle, and one of the number had a large and
very noisy rattle, with which he kept time to the chant of Ha ha ha ha ha! u u u u u! o o o
oo! au au au au au! The lurid lights of the fires burning all around lit up this truly savage
scene. The witch-doctor, the old fakir named "Father of Kittens," came to me and looked me
through and through with his piercing eyes. I was given the rattle, and, although very tired,
had to keep up a constant din, while my wild companions bent their bodies in strange contortions.
In the centre of the ring was a woman with a lighted pipe in her hand. She passed this from
one to another and pushed it into the mouth of each one, who had "a draw." My turn came, and
lo! the pipe was thrust between my teeth, and the din went on: Ha ha! u u! o o! au au! This
feast lasted three nights and two days, but the music was not varied, and neither man nor woman
seemed to sleep or rest. Food was cooking at the different fires, attended by the women, but
my share was only a roasted fox's head! The animal was laid on the wood, with skin, head and
legs still attached, and the whole was burnt black. I was very hungry, and ate my portion thankfully.
Christopher North said: "There's a deal of fine confused feeding about a sheep's head," and
so I found with the fox's. Truly, as the Indian says, "hunger is a very big man."

At these feasts a drum, made by stretching a serpent's skin over one of their clay pots, is
loudly beaten, and the thigh-bone of an ostrich, with key-holes burned in, is a common musical
instrument. From the algarroba bean an intoxicating drink is made, called ang- min, and then
yells, hellish sounds and murderous blows inspire terror in the paleface guest. "It is impossible
to conceive anything more wild and savage than the scene of their bivouac. Some drink till
they are intoxicated, others swallow the steaming blood of slaughtered animals for their supper,
and then, sick from drunkenness, they cast it up again, and are besmeared with gore and filth."

After the feast was over I held a service, and told how sin was injected into us by the evil
spirit, but that all are invited to the heavenly feast. My address was listened to in perfect
silence, and the nodding heads showed that some, at least, understood it. When I finished speaking,
a poor woman, thinking she must offer something, gave me her baby--a naked little creature
that had never been washed in its life. I took it up and kissed it, and the poor woman smiled.
Yes, a savage woman can smile.

As already stated, many different tribes of Indians dwell in the Chaco, and each have their
different customs. In the Suhin tribe the rite of burial may be thus described. "The digger
of the grave and the performer of the ceremony was the chief, who is also a witch- doctor,
and I was told that he was about to destroy the witch-doctor who had caused the man's death.
A fire was lit, and whilst the digging was in progress a stone and two pieces of iron were
being heated. Two bones of a horse, a large bird's nest built of sticks, and various twigs
were collected. The skin of a jaguar's head, a tooth, and the pads of the same animal were
laid out. A piece of wax and a stone were also heated; and in a heap lay a hide, some skins
for bedding, and a quantity of sheep's wool. The grave being finished, the ceremony began by
a wooden arrow being notched in the middle and waxed, then plunged into the right breast of
the corpse, when it was snapped in two at the notch, and the remaining half was flung into
the air, accompanied with a vengeful cry, in the direction of the Toothli tribe, one of whose
doctors, it was supposed, had caused the man's death. Short pointed sticks, apparently to represent
arrows, were also daubed with wax, two being plunged into the throat and one into the left
breast, the cry again accompanying each insertion. One of the jaguar's pads was next taken,
and the head of the corpse torn by the claws, the growl of the animal being imitated during
the process. An incision was next made in the cheek, and the tooth inserted; then the head
and face were daubed with the heated wax. The use of the wax is evidently to signify the desire
that both arrows and animal may stick to the man if he be attacked by either. The arrows were
plunged, one into the right breast downwards, and another below the ribs, on the same side,
but in an upward direction, a third being driven into the right thigh. They also spoke about
breaking one of the arms, but did not do so. An incision being made in the abdomen, the heated
stone was then placed within the body. They place most reliance upon the work of the stone.
The ceremony is known by the name of 'Mataimang' stone, and all the other things are said to
assist it. Meteorites, when seen to pass along the sky, are regarded with awe; they are believed
to be these stones in passage. The body was placed in the grave with the head to the west,
the jaguar's head and pads being first placed under it. A bunch of grass, tied together, was
placed upon the body; then the bird's nest was burned upon it. The bones were next thrown in,
and over all the various articles before mentioned were placed. These were to accompany the
soul in its passage to the west. In this act the idea of a future state is more distinctly
seen than ever it has been seen amongst the Lenguas, who burn all a man's possessions at his
death. The ceremony finished, the grave was covered in, logs and twigs being carelessly thrown
on the top, apparently simply to indicate the existence of a grave. The thing which struck
me most was the intense spirit of vengeance shown."

Notwithstanding such terrible savagery, however, the Indian has ideas of right and wrong that
put Christian civilization to shame. The people are perfectly honest and truthful. I believe
they cannot lie, and stealing is entirely unknown among them.

Many are the experiences I have had in the Chaco. Some of them haunt
me still like ghostly shadows. The evening camp-fire, the glare of
 which lit up and made more hideous still my savage followers,
gorging themselves until covered with filth and gore. The times when,
from sheer hunger, I have, like them, torn up bird or beast and eaten
it raw. The draughts of water from the Indian hole containing the
putrefying remains of some dead animal; my shirt dropping off in rags
and no wash for three weeks. The journeys through miles of malarial
swamps and pathless wilderness. The revolting food, and the want of
food. Ah! the memory is a bad dream from which I must awake.

The other side, you say? Yes, there is another. A cloudless blue sky overhead. The gorgeous
air-flowers, delicate and fragrant. Trees covered with a drapery of orchidaceae. The loveliest
of flowers and shrubs. Birds of rainbow beauty, painted by the hand of God, as only He can.
Flamingoes, parrots, humming-birds, butterflies of every size and hue. Arborescent ferns; cacti,
thirty feet high, like huge candelabra. Creeping plants growing a hundred feet, and then passing
from the top of one ever-vernal tree to another, forming a canopy for one from the sun's rays.
Chattering monkeys. Deer, with more beautiful eyes than ever woman had since Eve fell. The
balmy air wafting incense from the burning bush; and last, but oh, not least, the joy in seeing
the degraded aborigine learning to love the "Light of the World"! Yes, there are delights;
but "life is real, life is earnest," and a meal of algarroba beans (the husks of the prodigal
son of Luke XV.) is not any more tempting if eaten under the shade of a waving palm of surpassing
beauty.

The mission station previously referred to lies one hundred miles in from the river bank, three
hundred miles north of Asuncion, among the Lengua Indians. As far as I am aware, no Paraguayan
has ever visited there. The missionaries wish their influence to be the only one in training
the Indian mind. The village bears the strange name of Waikthlatemialwa (The Place Where the
Toads Arrived). At the invitation of the missionaries, I was privileged to go there and see
their work. A trail leads in from the river bank, but it is so bad that bullock carts taking
in provisions occupy ten and twelve days on the journey. Tamaswa (The Locust Eater), my guide,
led me all during the first day out through a palm forest, and at night we slept on the hard
ground. The Indian was a convert of the mission, and although painted, feathered and almost
naked, seemed really an exemplary Christian. The missionaries labored for eleven years without
gaining a single convert, but Tamaswa is not the only "follower of Jesus" now. During the day
we shot a deer, and that evening, being very hungry, I ate perhaps two pounds of meat. Tamaswa
finished the rest! True, it was only a small deer, but as I wish to retain my character for
veracity, I dare not say how much it weighed. This meal concluded, we knelt on the ground.
I read out of the old Book: "I go to prepare a place for you," and Locust Eater offered a simple
prayer for protection, help and safety to the God who understands all languages.

My blanket was wet through and through with the green slime through which we had waded and
splashed for hours, but we curled ourselves up under a beer barrel tree and tried to sleep.
The howling jaguars and other beasts of prey in the jungle made this almost impossible. Several
times I was awakened by my guide rising, and, by the light of a palm torch, searching for wood
to replenish the dying fire, in the smoke of which we slept, as a help against the millions
of mosquitos buzzing around. Towards morning a large beast of some kind leaped right over me,
and I rose to rekindle the fire, which my guide had suffered to die out, and then I watched
until day dawned. As all the deer was consumed, we started off without breakfast, but were
fortunate later on in being able to shoot two wild turkeys.

That day we rode on through the endless forest of palms, and waded through a quagmire at least
eight miles in extent, where the green slime reached up to the saddle-flaps. On that day we
came to a sluggish stream, bearing the name of "Aptikpangmakthlaingwainkyapaimpangkya" (The
Place Where the Pots Were Struck When They Were About to Feast). There a punt was moored, into
which we placed our saddles, etc., and paddled across, while the horses swam the almost stagnant
water. Saddling up on the other side, we had a journey of thirty miles to make before arriving
at a waterhole, where we camped for the second night. I don't know what real nectar is, but
that water was nectar to me, although the horses sniffed and at first refused to drink it.

At sunset on the third day we emerged from the palm forest and endless marshes, and by the
evening of the fourth day the church, built of palm logs, loomed up on the horizon. Many of
the Indians came out to meet us, and my arrival was the talk of the village. The people seemed
happy, and the missionaries made me at home in their roughly-built log shanties. Next morning
I found a gift had been brought me by the Indians. It was a beautiful feather headdress, but
it had just been left on the step, the usual way they have of making presents. The Indian expects
no thanks, and he gives none. The women received any present I handed them courteously but
silently. The men would accept a looking-glass from me and immediately commence to search their
face for any trace of "dirty hairs," probably brought to their mind by the sight of mine, but
not even a grunt of satisfaction would be given. No Chaco language has a word for "thanks."

There is, among the Lenguas, an old tradition to the effect that for generations they have
been expecting the arrival of some strangers who would live among them and teach them about
the spirit-world. These long-looked-for teachers were called The Imlah. The tradition says
that when the Imlah arrive, all the Indians must obey their teaching, and take care that the
said Imlah do not again leave their country, for if so they, the Indians, would disappear from
the land. When Mr. Grubb and his helpers first landed, they were immediately asked, "Are you
the Imlah?" and to this question they, of course, answered yes. Was it not because of this
tradition that the Indian who later shot Mr. Grubb with a poisoned arrow was himself put to
death by the tribe?

About twenty boys attend the school established at Waikthlatemialwa, and strange names some
of them bear; let Haikuk (Little Dead One) serve as an example. It is truly a cheering sight
to see this sign of a brighter day. When these boys return to their distant toldos to tell
"the news" to their dark-minded parents, the most wonderful of all to relate is "Liklamo ithnik
nata abwathwuk enthlit God; hingyahamok hiknata apkyapasa apkyitka abwanthlabanko. Aptakmilkischik
sat ankuk appaiwa ingyitsipe sata netin thlamokthloho abyiam." [Footnote: John 3:16]

Well might the wondering mother of "Dark Cloud" call her next-born "Samai" (The Dawn of Day).

The Indian counts by his hands and feet. Five would be one hand, two hands ten, two hands and
a foot fifteen, and a specially clever savage could even count "my two hands and my two feet."
Now Mr. Hunt is changing that: five is thalmemik, ten sohok-emek, fifteen sohokthlama-eminik,
and twenty sohok-emankuk.

When a boy in school desires to say eighteen, he must first of all take a good deep breath,
for sohok-emek-wakthla-mok-eminick- antanthlama is no short word. This literally means: "finished
my hands--pass to my other foot three."

At the school I saw the skin of a water-snake twenty-six feet nine inches long, but a book
of pictures I had interested the boys far more.

The mission workers have each a name given to them by the Indians, and some of them are more
than strange. Apkilwankakme (The Man Who Forgot His Face) used to be called Nason when he moved
in high English circles; now he is ragged and torn-looking; but the old Book my mother used
to read says: "He that loseth his life for My sake shall find it." Some of us have yet to learn
that if we would remember His face it is necessary for us to forget our own. If the unbeliever
in mission work were to go to Waik-thlatemialwa, he would come away a converted man. The former
witch-doctor, who for long made "havoc," but has since been born again, would tell him that
during a recent famine he talked to the Unseen Spirit, and said: "Give us food, God!" and that,
when only away a very short while, his arrows killed three ostriches and a deer. He would see
Mrs. Mopilinkilana walking about, clothed and in her right mind. Who is she? The murderess
of her four children--the woman who could see the skull of her own boy kicking about the toldo
for days, and watch it finally cracked up and eaten by the dogs. Can such as she be changed?
The Scripture says: "Every one that believeth."

The Lengua language contains no word for God, worship, praise, sacrifice, sin, holiness, reward,
punishment or duty, but their meanings are now being made clear.

The church at Waikthlatemialwa has no colored glass windows--old canvas bags take their place.
The reverent worshippers assemble morning and evening, in all the pride of their paint and
feathers, but there is no hideous idol inside; nay! they worship the invisible One, whom they
can see even with closely shut eyes. To watch the men and women, with erect bearing, and each
walking in the other's footsteps, enter the church, is a sight well worth the seeing. They
bow themselves, not before some fetish, as one might suppose, but to the One whom, having not
seen, some of them are learning to love.

One of the missionaries translated my simple address to the dusky congregation, who listened
with wondering awe to the ever-new story of Jesus. As the Lengua language contains no word
for God, the Indians have adopted our English word, and both that name and Jesus came out in
striking distinctness during the service, and in the fervent prayer of the old ex-witch-doctor
which followed. With the familiar hymn, "There is a green hill far away," the meeting concluded.
The women with nervous air silently retired, but the men saluted me, and some even went so
far as to shake hands--with the left hand. Would that similar stations were established all
over this neglected land! While churches and mission buildings crowd each other in the home
lands, the Chaco, with an estimated population of three millions, must be content with this
one ray of light in the dense night.

On that far-off "green hill" we shall meet some even from the Lengua tribe. Christ said: "I
am the door; by Me if any man enter in, he shall be saved." But oh, "Painted Face," you spoke
truth; the white "thing" is selfish, and keeps this wondrous knowledge to himself.

PART IV.

BRAZIL

"There can be no more fascinating field of labor than Brazil, notwithstanding the difficulty
of the soil and the immense tracts of country which have to be traversed. It covers half a
continent, and is three times the size of British India. Far away in the interior there exist
numerous Indian tribes with, as yet, no written language, and consequently no Bible. Thrust
back by the white man from their original homes, these children of the forest and the river
are, perhaps, the most needy of the tribes of the earth. For all that these millions know,
the Gospel is non-existent and Jesus Christ has never visited and redeemed the world." [Footnote:
The Neglected Continent]

BRAZIL

The Republic of Brazil has an area of 3,350,000 square miles. From north to south the country
measures 2,600 miles, and from east to west 2,500 miles. While the Republic of Bolivia has
no sea coast, Brazil has 3,700 miles washed by ocean waves. The population of this great empire
is twenty-two millions. Out of this perhaps twenty millions speak the Portuguese language.

"If Brazil was populated in the same proportion as Belgium is per square mile, Brazil would
have a population of 1,939,571,699. That is to say, Brazil, a single country in South America,
could hold and support the entire population of the world, and hundreds of millions more, the
estimate of the earth's population at the beginning of the twentieth century being 1,600,000,000."
[Footnote: Bishop Neely's "South America."]

Besides the millions of mules, horses and other animals, there are, in the republic, twenty-five
millions of cattle.

Brazil is rich in having 50,000 miles of navigable waterways. Three of the largest rivers of
the world flow through its territory. The Orinoco attains a width of four miles, and is navigable
for 1,400 miles. The Amazon alone drains a basin of 2,500,000 square miles.

Out of this mighty stream there flows every day three times the volume of water that flows
from the Mississippi. Many a sea-captain has thought himself in the ocean while riding its
stormy bosom. That most majestic of all rivers, with its estuary 180 miles wide, is the great
highway of Brazil. Steamboats frequently leave the sea and sail up its winding channels into
the far interior of Ecuador--a distance of nearly 4,000 miles. All the world knows that both
British and American men-of-war have visited the city of Iquitos in Peru, 2,400 miles up the
Amazon River. The sailor on taking soundings has found a depth of 170 feet of water at 2,000
miles from the mouth. Stretches of water and impenetrable forest as far as the eye can reach
are all the traveller sees.

Prof. Orton says: "The valley of the Amazon is probably the most sparsely populated region
on the globe," and yet Agassiz predicted that "the future centre of civilization of the world
will be in the Amazon Valley." I doubt if there are now 500 acres of tilled land in the millions
of square miles the mighty river drains. Where cultivated, coffee, tobacco, rubber, sugar,
cocoa, rice, beans, etc., freely grow, and the farmer gets from 500 to 800-fold for every bushel
of corn he plants. Humboldt estimated that 4,000 pounds of bananas can be produced in the same
area as 33 pounds of wheat or 99 pounds of potatoes.

The natural wealth of the country is almost fabulous. Its mountain chains contain coal, gold,
silver, tin, zinc, mercury and whole mountains of the very best iron ore, while in forty years
five million carats of diamonds have been sent to Europe. In 1907 Brazil exported ten million
dollars' worth of cocoa, seventy million dollars' worth of rubber; and from the splendid stone
docks of Santos, which put to shame anything seen on this northern continent, either in New
York or Boston, there was shipped one hundred and forty-two million dollars' worth of coffee.
Around Rio Janeiro alone there are a hundred million coffee trees, and the grower gets two
crops a year.

Yet this great republic has only had its borders touched. It is estimated that there are over
a million Indians in the interior, who hold undisputed possession of four-fifths of the country.
Three and a quarter million square miles of the republic thus remains to a great extent an
unknown, unexplored wilderness. In this area there are over a million square miles of virgin
forest, "the largest and densest on earth." The forest region of the Amazon is twelve hundred
miles east to west, and eight hundred miles north to south, and this sombre, primeval woodland
has not yet been crossed. [Footnote: Just as this goes to press the newspapers announce that
the Brazilian Government has appropriated $10,000 towards the expenses of an expedition into
the interior, under the leadership of Henry Savage Landor, the English explorer.]

Brazil's federal capital, Rio de Janeiro, stands on the finest harbor of the world, in which
float ships from all nations. Proudest among these crafts are the large Brazilian gunboats.
"It is a curious anomaly," says the Scientific American, "that the most powerful Dreadnought
afloat should belong to a South American republic, but it cannot be denied that the Minas Geraes
is entitled to that distinction." This is one of the vessels that mutinied in 1910.

Brazil is a strange republic. Fanatical, where the Bible is burned in the public plaza whenever
introduced, yet, where the most obscene prints are publicly offered for sale in the stores.
Where it is a "mortal sin" to listen to the Protestant missionary, and not a sin to break the
whole Decalogue. Backward--where the villagers are tied to a post and whipped by the priest
when they do not please him. Progressive--in the cities where religion has been relegated to
women and children and priests.

Did I write the word religion? Senhor Ruy Barbosa, the most conspicuous representative of South
America at the last Hague Conference, and a candidate for the Presidency of Brazil, wrote of
it: "Romanism is not a religion, but a political organization, the most vicious, the most unscrupulous,
and the most destructive of all political systems. The monks are the propagators of fanaticism,
the debasers of Christian morals. The history of papal influence has been nothing more nor
less than the story of the dissemination of a new paganism, as full of superstition and of
all unrighteousness as the mythology of the ancients--a new paganism organized at the expense
of evangelical traditions, shamelessly falsified and travestied by the Romanists. The Romish
Church in all ages has been a power, religious scarcely in name, but always inherently, essentially
and untiringly a political power." As Bishop Neely of the M. E. Church was leaving Rio, Dr.
Alexander, one of Brazil's most influential gentlemen, said to him: "It is sad to see my people
so miserable when they might be so happy. Their ills, physical and moral, spring from lack
of religion. They call themselves Catholics, but the heathen are scarcely less Christian!"
Is it surprising that the Italian paper L'Asino (The Ass), which exists only to ridicule Romanism,
has recently been publishing much in praise of what it calls authentic Christianity?

"Rio Janeiro, the beautiful," is an imperial city of imposing grandeur. It is the largest Portuguese
city of the world--greater than Lisbon and Oporto together. It has been called "the finest
city on the continents of America,--perhaps in the world, with unqualifiedly the most beautiful
street in all the world, the Avenida Central." [Footnote: Clark. "Continent of Opportunity."]
That magnificent avenue, over a mile long and one hundred and ten feet wide, asphalt paved
and superbly illuminated, is lined with costly modern buildings, some of them truly imposing.
Ten people can walk abreast on its beautiful black and white mosaic sidewalks. The buildings
which had to be demolished in order to build this superb avenue cost the government seven and
a half millions of dollars, and they were bought at their taxed value, which, it was estimated,
was only a third of the actual. [Footnote: "But as a wonderful city, the crowning glory of
Brazil--yes of the world, I believe--is Rio de Janeiro."--C. W. Furlong, in "The World's Work."]

Some years ago I knew a thousand people a day to die in Rio Janeiro of yellow fever. It is
now one of the healthiest of cities, with a death-rate far less than that of New York.

Rio Janeiro, as I first knew it, was far behind. Oil lamps shed fitful gleams here and there
on half-naked people. Electric lights now dispel the darkness of the streets, and electric
streetcars thread in and out of the "Ruas." There is progress everywhere and in everything.

To-day the native of Rio truthfully boasts that his city has "the finest street-car system
of any city of the world."

A man is not permitted to ride in these cars unless he wears a tie, which seems to be the badge
of respectability. To a visitor these exactions are amusing. A friend of mine visited the city,
and we rode together on the cars until it was discovered that he wore no tie. The day was hot,
and my friend (a gentleman of private means) had thought that a white silk shirt with turn-down
collar was enough. We felt somewhat humiliated when he was ignominiously turned off the car,
while the black ex-slaves on board smiled aristocratically. If you visit Rio Janeiro, by all
means wear a tie. If you forget your shirt, or coat, or boots, it will matter little, but the
absence of a tie will give the negro cause to insult you.

Some large, box-like cars have the words "Descalcos e Bagagem" (literally, "For the Shoeless
and Baggage") printed across them. In these the poorer classes and the tieless can ride for
half-price. And to make room for the constantly inflowing people from Europe, two great hills
are being removed and "cast into the sea."

Rio Janeiro may be earth's coming city. It somewhat disturbs our self-complacency to learn
that they have spent more for public improvements than has any city of the United States, with
the exception of New York. Municipal works, involving an expenditure of $40,000,000, have contributed
to this.

Rio Janeiro, however, is not the only large and growing city Brazil can boast of. Sao Paulo,
with its population of 300,000 and its two- million-dollar opera house, which fills the space
of three New York blocks, is worthy of mention. Bahia, founded in 1549, has 270,000 inhabitants,
and is the centre of the diamond market of Brazil. Para, with its population of 200,000, who
export one hundred million dollars' worth of rubber yearly and keep up a theatre better than
anything of the kind in New York, is no mean city. Pernambuco, also, has 200,000 inhabitants,
large buildings, and as much as eight million dollars have recently been devoted to harbor
improvements there.

Outside of these cities there are estates, quite a few of which are worth more than a million
dollars; one coffee plantation has five million trees and employs five thousand people.

With its Amazon River, six hundred miles longer than the journey from New York to Liverpool,
England, with its eight branches, each of which is navigable for more than a thousand miles,
Brazil's future must be very great.

CHAPTER XII.

A JOURNEY FROM RIO JANEIRO TO THE INLAND TOWN OF CORUMBA.

Brazil has over 10,000 miles of railway, but as it is a country larger than the whole of Europe,
the reader can easily understand that many parts must be still remote from the iron road and
almost inaccessible. The town of Cuyaba, as the crow flies, is not one thousand miles from
Rio, but, in the absence of any kind of roads, the traveller from Rio must sail down the one
thousand miles of sea- coast, and, entering the River Plate, proceed up the Parana, Paraguay,
and San Lorenzo rivers to reach it, making it a journey of 3,600 miles.

"In the time demanded for a Brazilian to reach points in the interior, setting out from the
national capital and going either by way of the Amazon or Rio de la Plata systems of waterways,
he might journey to Europe and back two or three times over." [Footnote: Sylvester Baxter,
in The Outlook, March, 1908.]

The writer on one occasion was in Rio when a certain mission called him to the town of Corumba,
distant perhaps 1,300 miles from the capital. Does the reader wish to journey to that inland
town with him?

Boarding an ocean steamer at Rio, we sail down the stormy sea-coast for one thousand miles
to Montevideo. There we tranship into the Buenos Ayres boat, and proceed one hundred and fifty
miles up the river to that city. Almost every day steamers leave that great centre for far
interior points. The "Rapido" was ready to sail for Asuncion, so we breasted the stream one
thousand miles more, when that city was reached. There another steamer waited to carry us to
Corumba, another thousand miles further north.

The climate and scenery of the upper reaches of the Paraguay are superb, but our spirits were
damped one morning when we discovered that a man of our party had mysteriously disappeared
during the night. We had all sat down to dinner the previous evening in health and spirits,
and now one was missing. The All-seeing One only knows his fate. To us he disappeared forever.

Higher up the country--or lower, I cannot tell which, for the river winds in all directions,
and the compass, from pointing our course as due north, glides over to northwest, west, southwest,
and on one or two occasions, I believe, pointed due south--we came to the first Brazilian town,
Puerto Martinho, where we were obliged to stay a short time. A boat put off from the shore,
in which were some well- dressed natives. Before she reached us and made fast, a loud report
of a Winchester rang out from the midst of those assembled on the deck of our steamer, and
a man in the boat threw up his arms and dropped; the spark of life had gone out. So quickly
did this happen that before we had time to look around the unfortunate man was weltering in
his own blood in the bottom of the boat! The assassin, an elderly Brazilian, who had eaten
at our table and scarcely spoken to anyone, stepped forward quietly, confessing that he had
shot one of his old enemies. He was then taken ashore in the ship's boat, there to await Brazilian
justice, and later on, to appear before a higher tribunal, where the accounts of all men will
be balanced.

Such rottenness obtains in Brazilian law that not long since a judge sued in court a man who
had bribed him and sought to evade paying the bribe. Knowing this laxity, we did not anticipate
that our murderous fellow-traveller would have to suffer much for his crime. The News, of Rio
Janeiro, recently said: "The punishment of a criminal who has any influence whatever is becoming
one of the forgotten things."

After leaving Puerto Martinho, the uniform flatness of the river banks changes to wild, mountainous
country. On either hand rise high mountains, whose blue tops at times almost frowned over our
heads, and the luxuriant tropical vegetation, with creeping lianas, threatened to bar our progress.
Huge alligators sunned themselves on the banks, and birds of brilliant plumage flew from branch
to branch. Carpinchos, with heavy, pig-like tread, walked among the rushes of the shore, and
made more than one good dish for our table. This water-hog, the largest gnawing animal in the
world, is here very common. Their length, from end of snout to tail, is between three and four
feet, while they frequently weigh up to one hundred pounds. The girth of their body will often
exceed the length by a foot. For food, they eat the many aquatic plants of the river banks,
and the puma, in turn, finds them as delicious a morsel as we did. The head of this amphibious
hog presents quite a ludicrous aspect, owing to the great depth of the jaw, and to see them
sitting on their haunches, like huge rabbits, is an amusing sight. The young cling on to the
mother's back when she swims.

Farther on we stopped to take in wood at a large Brazilian cattle establishment, and a man
there assured us that "there were no venomous insects except tigers," but these killed at least
fifteen per cent. of his animals. Not long previously a tiger had, in one night, killed five
men and a dog. The heat every day grew more oppressive. On the eighth day we passed the Brazilian
fort and arsenal of Cuimbre, with its brass cannon shining in a sun of brass, and its sleepy
inhabitants lolling in the shade.

Five weeks after leaving Rio Janeiro we finally anchored in Corumba, an intensely sultry spot.
Corumba is a town of 5,000 inhabitants, and often said to be one of the hottest in the world.
It is an unhealthy place, as are most towns without drainage and water supply. In the hotter
season of the year the ratio on a six months' average may be two deaths to one birth. It is
a place where dogs at times seem more numerous than people, a town where justice is administered
in ways new and strange. Does the reader wish an instance? An assassin of the deepest dye was
given over by the judge to the tender mercies of the crowd. The man was thereupon attacked
by the whole population in one mass. He was shot and stabbed, stoned and beaten until he became
almost a shapeless heap, and was then hurried away in a mule cart, and, without coffin, priest
or mourners, was buried like a dog.

Perhaps the populace felt they had to take the law into their own hands, for I was told that
the Governor had taken upon himself the responsibility of leaving the prison gates open to
thirty-two men, who had quietly walked out. These men had been incarcerated for various reasons,
murder, etc., for even in this state of Matto Grosso an assassin who cannot pay or escape suffers
a little imprisonment. The excuse was, "We cannot afford to keep so many idle men--we are poor."
What a confession for a Brazilian! I do not vouch for the story, for I was not an eye-witness
to the act, but it is quite in the range of Brazilian possibilities. The only discrepancy may
be the strange way of Portuguese counting. A man buys three horses, but his account is that
he has bought twelve feet of horses. He embarks a hundred cows, but the manifest describes
the transaction as four hundred feet. The Brazilian is in this respect almost a Yankee-- little
sums do not content him. Why should they, when he can truthfully boast that his territory is
larger than that of the United States? His mile is longer than that of any other nation, and
the bocadinho, or extra "mouthful," which generally accompanies it, is endless. Instead of
having one hundred cents to the dollar, he has two thousand, and each cent is called a "king."
The sound is big, but alas, the value of his money is insignificantly small!

The child is not content with being called John Smith. "Jose Maria Jesus Joao dois Sanctos
Sylva da Costa da Cunha" is his name; and he recites it, as I, in my boyhood's days, used to
"say a piece" while standing on a chair. There is no school in the town. In Brazil, 84 per
cent. of the entire population are illiterate.

