Mechanical engineer                      7         30        8           25
Blacksmith                             393         334     331          733
Dock builder                           ...         ...      15          ...
Carpenter                              862         571     670        2,157
Stockkeeper                            161         176     140          562
Structural steel worker                463         326     351          334
Chauffeur                            3,561       4,003   3,300        7,191
Chauffeur, heavy truck               1,304       1,356     987        2,061
Bricklayer                             189          99     132          223
Hostler                              3,351       1,433   2,062        3,559
Teamster or wagoner                  8,678      12,660   9,534       13,691
Transit and levelman                   ...           4       2           47
Axeman logger                        1,192       1,759   1,423        1,827
Clerical worker                        603         395     324        4,159
Baker and cook                       4,129       3,157   2,974        1,077
Musician                               105          17     115          160
Alto horn                               56          47      38           46
Baritone                                21          21      15           16
Bass horn                               35          21      18           16
Clarinet                                21          64      25           66
Cornet                                  98          56      67          132
Flute                                   21         ...       5           29
Saxaphone                                7          13      10           23
Trap drum                              217         197     100           46
Trombone                                42          69      40           67
Bugler                                  14          13      12           24
Saddler                                ...          26       3           12
Crane operator, hoistman                21          39      42           44
Crane operator, pile driver            ...          13      12            7
Crane operator, shovel                 ...          13       5           30
Oxy-acetylene welder                   ...          21       8           44
Rigger and cordage worker               49          77      57           40
Stevedore, cargo handler               161          34      68           10
Longshoreman                           652         664     651           15
                                      ----        ----      ----        ----
                                    26,413      27,708  23,544        38,473

     Figures are for general service drafts and do not include the
     enlarged list of occupations for which both whites and Negroes were
     selected.

When sufficient years have elapsed for the forming of a correct perspective, when the dissolving
elements of time have swept away misunderstandings and the influences engendered by party belief
and politically former opinions, Woodrow Wilson is destined to occupy a place in the Temple
of Fame that all Americans may well be proud of. Let us analyze this and let us be fair about
it, whatever may be our beliefs or affiliations.

Washington gave us our freedom as a nation and started the first great wave of democracy. Probably,
had some of us lived in Washington's time, we would have been opposed to him politically. Today
he is our national hero and is reverenced by all free people of the earth, even by the nation
which he defeated at arms. Lincoln preserved and cemented, albeit he was compelled to do it
in blood, the democracy which Washington founded. He did infinitely more; he struck the shackles
from four million human beings and gave the Negro of America his first opportunity to take
a legitimate place in the world. Lincoln's service in abolishing slavery was not alone to the
Negro. He elevated the souls of all men, for he ended the most degrading institution that Satan
ever devised--more degrading to the master who followed it, than to the poor subject he practiced
it upon. Unitedly, we revere Lincoln, yet there were those who were opposed to him and in every
way hampered and sneered at his sublime consecration to the service of his country. It takes
time to obtain the proper estimate of men.

Enough light has already been cast on President Wilson and his life work to indicate his character
and what the finished portrait of him will be.

We see him at the beginning of the European conflict, before any of us could separate the tangled
threads of rumor, of propaganda, of misrepresentation, to determine what it was all about;
before even he could comprehend it, a solitary and monitory figure, calling upon us to be neutral,
to form no hasty judgments. We see him later in the role of peacemaker, upholding the principles
of decency and honor. Eventually as the record of atrocities and crimes against innocents enlarges,
we see him pleading with the guilty to return to the instincts of humanity. Finally as the
ultimate aim of the Hun is revealed as an assault upon the freedom of the world; after the
most painstaking and patient efforts to avoid conflict, during which he was subjected to humiliation
and insult, we see him grasp the sword, calling a united nation to arms in clarion tones, like
some Crusader of old; his shibboleth: DECENCY, HUMANITY, LIBERTY.

What followed? His action swept autocracy from its last great stronghold and made permanent
the work which Washington began and upon which Lincoln builded so nobly. This of Woodrow Wilson;
an estimate--there can be no other thought, that will endure throughout history.

In the earlier chapters are sketched the main events of the great war up to the end of the
year 1917, when the history of the Negro in the conflict became the theme. It remains to give
an outline review of battles and happenings from the beginning of 1917 until the end of hostilities;
culminating in the most remarkable armistice on record; a complete capitulation of the Teutonic
forces and their allies, and a complete surrender by them of all implements and agencies for
waging war. The terms of the armistice, drastic in the extreme, were largely the work of Marshal
Ferdinand Foch, commander-in-chief of the Allied armies.

Early in 1918 it became evident that England, France and Italy were rapidly approaching the
limit of their man power. It became necessary for America to hasten to the rescue.

Training of men and officers in the various cantonments of America was intensified and as rapidly
as they could be brought into condition they were shipped to France. The troop movement was
a wonderful one and before the final closing of hostilities in November there were more than
2,000,000 American troops in Europe. The navy was largely augmented, especially in the matter
of destroyers, submarine chasers and lighter craft.

Our troops saw little actual warfare during the first three months of the year. Americans took
over a comparatively quiet sector of the French front near Toul, January 21. Engagements of
slight importance took place on January 30 and February 4, the latter on a Lorraine sector
which Americans were holding. On March 1, they repulsed a heavy German raid in the Toul sector,
killing many. On March 6, the Americans were holding an eight mile front alone.

On March 21 the great German offensive between the Oise and the Scarpe, a distance of fifty
miles, began. General Haig's British forces were driven back about twenty miles. The French
also lost much ground including a number of important towns. The Germans drove towards Amiens
in an effort to separate the British and French armies. They had some successes in Flanders
and on the French front, but were finally stopped. Their greatest advance measured thirty-five
miles and resulted in the retaking of most of the territory lost in the Hindenburg retreat
of the previous year. The Allies lost heavily in killed, wounded and prisoners, but the Germans
being the aggressors, lost more.

While the great battle was at its height, March 28, the Allies reached an agreement to place
all their forces from the Arctic Ocean to the Mediterranean, under one supreme command, the
man chosen for the position being General Foch of the French. On March 29, General Pershing
placed all the American forces at the disposal of General Foch.

The Germans began a new offensive against the British front April 8 and won a number of victories
in the La Basse canal region and elsewhere. The battle of Seicheprey, April 20, was the Americans'
first serious engagement with the Germans. The Germans captured the place but the Americans
by a counter attack recovered it.

Another great offensive was started by the Germans, May 27, resulting in the taking of the
Chemin des Dames from the French and crossing the river Aisne. On the following day they crossed
the Vesle river at Fismes. They held this position against many subsequent counter-attacks.
By the 31st the Germans had reached Chateau Thierry and other points on the Marne, where they
were halted by the French. They made a few gains during the first days of June. On June 6,
American marines made a gallant attack, gaining two miles on a front two and one-half miles
long near Veuilly la Poterie. On the following day they assisted the French in important victories.
It was in these engagements that the Americans established themselves as fighters equal to any.

On June 9, the Germans began their fourth offensive, attacking between Montdidier and the river
Oise. They advanced about four miles, taking several villages. In the operations of the following
day which gained them several villages, they claimed to have captured 8,000 French. This day
the American marines took the greater portion of Belleau wood and completed the capture of
it June 11. The French at the same time defeated the Germans between Robescourt and St. Maur.
There were other battles on the 12th and 13th, but on the 14th it became evident that the German
offensive was a costly failure.

The fighting from this time until the end of June was of a less serious nature, although the
Americans in the Belleau and Vaux regions gave the Germans no rest, attacking them continually
and taking prisoners. The Americans at this time were also engaged in an offensive in Italy.
July 2, President Wilson announced there were 1,019,115 American soldiers in France.

The Fourth of July was celebrated in England, France and Italy as well as in the United States.

The fifth and last phase of the great offensive which the Germans had started in March, began
July 15, in an attack from Chateau Thierry to Massignes, along a sixty-five mile front and
crossing the Marne at several places. At Chateau Thierry the Americans put up a strong resistance
but the enemy by persistent efforts finally succeeded in getting a footing on the south bank.
The battle continued east and west of Rheims with the Allies holding strongly and the Germans
meeting heavy losses.

While the Germans were trying to force their way regardless of cost, in the direction of Chalons
and Epernay, General Foch was preparing a surprise in the Villers-Cotterets forest on the German
right flank. In the large force collected for the surprise were some of the best French regiments
together with the famed Foreign Legion, the Moroccan regiment and other crack troops including
Americans. On the morning of July 18, a heavy blow was launched at the Germans all along the
line from Chateau Thierry on the Marne to the Aisne northwest of Soissons.

The foe was taken completely by surprise and town after town fell with very little resistance.
Later the resistance stiffened but the Allies continued to advance. Cavalrymen assisted the
infantry and tanks in large numbers, helped to clean out the machine gun nests. The Americans
who fought side by side with the French won the unbounded admiration of their comrades. Thousands
of prisoners were taken with large numbers of heavy cannon, great quantities of ammunition
and thousands of machine guns. By the 20th Soissons was threatened.

Meanwhile things were going badly for the Austrians. After its retreat in 1917 to the line
of the Piave river, the Italian army had been reorganized and strengthened under General Diaz,
who had succeeded General Cadorna in command. French and British regiments had been sent to
assist in holding the line, and later some American forces.

The Austrians began an offensive June 15 along a 100-mile front, crossing the Piave in several
places. For three days they made violent attacks on the Montello plateau, and along the Piave
from St. Andrea to San Dona and at Capo Sile, twenty miles from Venice. The whole Austrian
scheme to advance into the fertile Italian plains where they hoped to find food for their hungry
soldiers, failed completely. It was practically the end of Austria and the beginning of the
end for Germany. Bulgaria gave up September 26, due to heavy operations by the French, Italians
and Serbians during July, August and September, in Albania, Macedonia and along the Vardar
river to the boundaries of Bulgaria. They signed an armistice September 29 and the king of
Bulgaria abdicated October 3. Turkey being in a hopeless position through the surrender of
Bulgaria, and the success of the British forces under General Allenby, kept up a feeble resistance
until the end of October when she too surrendered. The collapse of Austria-Hungary followed
closely on that of Turkey. They kept up a show of resistance and suffered a number of disastrous
defeats until the end of October when they raised the white flag. An armistice was signed by
the Austrian representatives and General Diaz for the Italians, November 3.

On the anniversary of Britain's entry into the war, August 4, Field Marshall Haig, commander-in-chief
of the British forces issued a special order of the day, the opening paragraph of which was:

     "The conclusion of the fourth year of the war marks the passing of
     the period of crisis. We can now with added confidence, look
     forward to the future."

On August 4, General Pershing reported:

     "The full fruits of victory in the counter offensive begun so
     gloriously by Franco-American troops on July 18, were reaped today,
     when the enemy who met his second great defeat on the Marne, was
     driven in confusion beyond the line of the Vesle. The enemy, in
     spite of suffering the severest losses, has proved incapable of
     stemming the onslaught of our troops, fighting for liberty side by
     side with French, British and Italian veterans. In the course of
     the operations, 8,400 prisoners and 133 guns have been captured by
     our men alone. Our troops have taken Fismes by assault and hold the
     south bank of the Vesle in this section."

On August 8, the British and French launched an offensive in Picardy, pressed forward about
seven miles on a front of 20 miles, astride the river Somme and captured several towns and
10,000 prisoners. It was in this engagement that the hard fighting at Chipilly Ridge occurred,
in which the Americans so ably assisted, notably former National Guardsmen from Chicago and
vicinity. Montdidier was taken by the French August 10. The British also continued to advance
and by the 11th the Allies had captured 36,000 prisoners and more than 500 guns. A French attack
August 19-20 on the Oise-Aisne front, netted 8,000 prisoners and liberated many towns. On the
21st Lassigny was taken by the French. This was the cornerstone of the German position south
of the Avre river. On August 29 the Americans won the important battle of Guvigny. By September
2 the Germans were retreating on a front of 130 miles, from Ypres south to Noyon. By the 9th
the Germans had been driven back to the original Hindenburg line, where their resistance began
to strengthen.

On September 12 the American army, led by General Pershing, won a great battle in the attack
on and wiping out of the famous St. Mihiel salient. This victory forced the enemy back upon
the Wotan-Hindenburg line, with the French paralleling him from Verdun to the Moselle. Pershing's
forces continued fighting steadily, wearing out the Germans by steady pressure. On September
26 the Americans began another offensive along a front of 20 miles from the Meuse river westward
through the Argonne forest. This developed into one of the bloodiest battles of the war for
the Americans. On September 29 American and British troops smashed through the Hindenburg line
at its strongest point between Cambrai and St. Quentin. British troops entered the suburbs
of Cambrai and outflanked St. Quentin. Twenty-two thousand prisoners and more than 300 guns
were captured. Meanwhile the Belgians tore a great hole in the German line, ten miles from
the North sea, running from Dixmude southward.

On October 3 the French launched three drives, one north of St. Quentin, another north of Rheims,
and a third to the east in Champagne. All were successful, resulting in the freeing of much
territory and the capture of many prisoners. On October 4 the Americans resumed the attack
west of the Meuse. In the face of heavy artillery and machine gun fire, troops from Illinois,
Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and West Virginia, forced the Germans back to the so-called
Kriemhilde line. In the Champagne, American and French troops were moving successfully. On
the 6th the Americans captured St. Etienne; on the 9th they reached the southern outskirts
of Xivry and entered Chaune wood. On the same day the armies of Field Marshall Haig made a
clean break through the Hindenburg system on the west. Through a twenty-mile gap, they advanced
from nine to twelve miles, penetrating almost to the Le Selle and Sambre rivers.

On October 12 the British General Rawlinson, with whom an American division had been operating,
sent a telegram of congratulation to the commander of the division, which comprised troops
from Tennessee, in which he highly praised the gallantry of all the American troops. French
troops on October 13 captured the fortress of La Fere, the strongest point on the south end
of the old Hindenburg line. They also entered Laon and occupied the forest of St. Gobain. On
October 15 the Americans took and passed St. Juvin after desperate fighting. On October 16
they occupied the town of Grandpre, a place of great strategic importance, being the junction
of railways feeding a large part of the German armies. The Germans now began a retreat on an
enormous scale in Belgium. So fast did they move that the British, French and Belgians could
not keep in touch with them. The North sea ports of Belgium were speedily evacuated. Northwest
of Grandpre the Americans captured Talma farm October 23, after a stiff machine gun resistance.
Victories continued to be announced from day to day from all portions of the front.

On November 1 the Americans participated in a heavy battle, taking Champaigneulle and Landres
et St. George, which enabled them to threaten the enemy's most important line of communication.
On November 4 the Americans reached Stenay and on the 6th they crossed the Meuse. By the 7th
they had entered Sedan, the place made famous by the downfall of Napoleon III in the war of
1870. On other parts of the American front the enemy retreated so fast that the infantry had
to resort to motor cars to keep in touch with him. It was the same on other fronts. The Germans
put up a resistance at the strong fortress of Metz, which the Americans were attacking November
10 and 11.

Armistice negotiations had been started as early as October, 5, and were concluded November
11th. This date saw the complete collapse of the German military machine and will be one of
the most momentous days in history, as it marked the passing of an old order and the inauguration
of a new era for the world. In the armistice terms every point which the Americans and Allies
stipulated was agreed to by the Germans. The last shot in the war is thus described in an Associated
Press dispatch of November 11:

     "Thousands of American heavy guns fired the parting shot to the
     Germans at exactly 11 o'clock this morning. The line reached by the
     American forces was staked out this afternoon. The Germans hurled a
     few shells into Verdun just before 11 o'clock.

     "On the entire American front from the Moselle to the region of
     Sedan, there was artillery activity in the morning, all the
     batteries preparing for the final salvos.

     "At many batteries the artillerists joined hands, forming a long
     line as the lanyard of the final shot. There were a few seconds of
     silence as the shells shot through the heavy mist. Then the gunners
     cheered. American flags were raised by the soldiers over their
     dugouts and guns and at the various headquarters. Soon afterward
     the boys were preparing for luncheon.

The celebration, which occurred November 11, upon announcement of the news, has never been
equalled in America. It spontaneously became a holiday and business suspended voluntarily.
Self-restraint was thrown to the winds for nearly twenty-four hours in every city, town and
hamlet in the country. There was more enthusiasm, noise and processions than ever marked any
occasion in this country and probably eclipsed anything in the history of the world.

No band of heroes returning from war ever were accorded such a welcome as that tendered to
the homecoming 369th by the residents of New York, Manhattan Island and vicinity, irrespective
of race. Being one of the picturesque incidents of the war, the like of which probably will
not be repeated for many generations, if ever, it well deserves commemoration within the pages
of this book.

Inasmuch as no more graphic, detailed and colorful account of the day's doings has been printed
anywhere, we cannot do better than quote in its entirety the story which appeared in the great
newspaper, The World of New York, on February 18, 1919. The parade and reception, during which
the Negro troops practically owned the city, occurred the preceeding day. The World account
follows:

     "The town that's always ready to take off its hat and give a whoop
     for a man who's done something--'no matter who or what he was
     before,' as the old Tommy Atkins song has it--turned itself loose
     yesterday in welcoming home a regiment of its own fighting sons
     that not only did something, but did a whole lot in winning
     democracy's war.

     "In official records, and in the histories that youngsters will
     study in generations to come, this regiment will probably always be
     known as the 369th Infantry, U.S.A.

     "But in the hearts of a quarter million or more who lined the
     streets yesterday to greet it, it was no such thing. It was the old
     15th New York. And so it will be in this city's memory, archives
     and in the folk lore of the descendants of the men who made up its
     straight, smartly stepping ranks.

     "New York is not race-proud nor race-prejudiced. That this 369th
     Regiment, with the exception of its eighty-nine white officers, was
     composed entirely of Negroes, made no difference in the shouts and
     flagwaving and handshakes that were bestowed upon it. New York gave
     its Old 15th the fullest welcome of its heart.

     "Through scores of thousands of cheering white citizens, and then
     through a greater multitude of its own color, the regiment, the
     first actual fighting unit to parade as a unit here, marched in
     midday up Fifth Avenue and through Harlem, there to be almost
     assailed by the colored folks left behind when it went away to
     glory.

     "Later it was feasted and entertained, and this time very nearly
     smothered with hugs and kisses by kin and friends, at the 71st
     Regiment Armory. Still later, perfectly behaved and perfectly
     ecstatic over its reception, the regiment returned to Camp Upton to
     await its mustering out.

     "You knew these dark lads a year and a half ago, maybe, as persons
     to be slipped a dime as a tip and scarcely glanced it. They were
     your elevator boys, your waiters, the Pullman porters who made up
     your berths (though of course you'd never dare to slip a Pullman
     porter a dime). But, if you were like many a prosperous white
     citizen yesterday you were mighty proud to grasp Jim or Henry or
     Sam by the hand and then boast among your friends that you
     possessed his acquaintance.

     "When a regiment has the medal honors of France upon its flags and
     it has put the fear of God into Germany time after time, and its
     members wear two gold stripes, signifying a year's fighting
     service, on one arm, and other stripes, signifying wounds, on the
     other, it's a whole lot different outfit from what it was when it
     went away. And that's the old 15th N.Y. And the men are
     different--and that's Jim and Henry and Sam.

     "Col. William Hayward, the distinguished white lawyer and one time
     Public Service Commissioner, who is proud to head these fighters,
     was watching them line up for their departure shortly after 6
     o'clock last evening, when someone asked him what he thought of the
     day.

     "'It has been wonderful!' he said, and he gazed with unconcealed
     tenderness at his men. 'It's been far beyond my expectations. But
     these boys deserve it. There's only one thing missing. I wish some
     of Gen. Gouraud's French boys, whom we fought beside, could be here
     to see it.'

     "The Colonel slapped his hand affectionately upon the shoulder of
     his dark-skinned orderly.

     "'How about that, Hamilton, old boy?' he inquired.

     "'That's right, Colonel, sir; Gen. Gonraud's boys sure would have
     enjoyed this day!' the orderly responded as he looked proudly at
     the Colonel.

     "There's that sort of paternal feeling of the white officers toward
     their men, and that filial devotion of the men to their officers,
     such as exists in the French Army.

     "Much as the white population of the town demonstrated their
     welcome to the Regiment, it was, after all, those of their own
     color to whom the occasion belonged. And they did themselves proud
     In making it an occasion to recall for years in Harlem, San Juan
     Hill and Brooklyn, where most of the fighters were recruited.

     "At the official reviewing stand at 60th street, the kinsfolk and
     admirers of the regimental lads began to arrive as beforehandedly
     as 9 o'clock. They had tickets, and their seats were reserved for
     them. The official committee had seen to that--and nine-tenths of
     the yellow wooden benches were properly held for those good
     Americans of New York whom birth by chance had made dark-skinned
     instead of fair. BUT this was their Day of Days, and they had
     determined (using their own accentuation) to BE there and to be
     there EARLY.

     "The first-comers plodded across 59th Street from the San Juan Hill
     district, and it was fine to see them. There seemed to be a little
     military swank even to the youngsters, as platoons of them stepped
     along with faces that had been scrubbed until they shone. Had a
     woman a bit of fur, she wore it. Had a man a top hat--origin or
     vintage-date immaterial--he displayed that. All heads were up,
     high; eyes alight. Beaming smiles everywhere. No not quite
     everywhere. Occasionally there was to be seen on a left sleeve a
     black band with a gold star, which told the world that one of the
     Old 15th would never see the region west of Columbus Circle,
     because he had closed his eyes in France. And the faces of the
     wearers of these were unlaughing, but they held themselves just as
     proudly as the rest.

     "Few of the welcomers went flagless. No matter whether a man or
     woman wore a jewel or a pair of patent leather boots as a sign of
     "class," or tramped afoot to the stand or arrived in a limousine,
     nearly every dark hand held the nation's emblem.

     "Nearly every one wore white badges bearing the letters: "Welcome,
     Fighting 15th," or had pennants upon which stood out the regimental
     insignia--a coiled rattlesnake of white on a black field.

     "Those colored folk who could afford it journeyed to the stand in
     closed automobiles. Gorgeously gowned women alighted with great
     dignity beneath the admiring gaze of their humbler brethren. Taxies
     brought up those whose fortunes, perhaps, were not of such
     amplitude. Hansoms and hacks conveyed still others, and one party
     came in a plumber's wagon, its women members all bundled up in
     shawls and blankets against the cold, but grinning delightedly as
     the whole stand applauded.

     "Children by the thousands lined the east side of the avenue--Boy
     Scouts and uniformed kids and little girls with their school books
     under their arms, and they sang to the great delight of the crowd.

     "Just why it was that when Governor Smith and former Governor
     Whitman and Acting Mayor Moran and the other reviewers appeared
     behind a cavalcade of mounted policemen, the youngsters struck up
     that army classic, "Oh, How I Hate to Get Up in the Morning," no
     one could tell, but it gave the reviewers and the crowd a laugh.

     "With the state and city officials were the members of the Board of
     Aldermen, the Board of Estimate, Major Gen. Thomas J. Barry, Vice
     Admiral Albert Gleaves, Secretary of State, Francis Hugo; Rodman
     Wannamaker and--in a green hat and big fur coat--William Randolph
     Hearst. Secretary Baker of the War Department was unable to attend,
     but he did the next best thing and sent his colored assistant,
     Emmett J. Scott.

     "The reviewers arrived at 11:30 and had a good long wait, for at
     that time the paraders had not yet left 23rd Street. But what with
     the singing, and the general atmosphere of joyousness about the
     stand, there was enough to occupy everyone's time.

     "There was one feature which took the eye pleasingly--the number
     of babies which proud mothers held aloft, fat pickaninnies, mostly
     in white, and surrounded by adoring relatives. These were to see
     (and be seen by) their daddies for the first time. Laughingly, the
     other day, Col. Bill Hayward spoke of 'our boys' posthumous
     children,' and said he thought there were quite a few of them.

     "'Some of our boys had to go away pretty quickly,' he reminisced.
     'Some of them were only married about twenty minutes or so.'

     "'O Colonel!' said the modest Major Little on that occasion.

     "'Well, maybe it was a trifle longer than twenty minutes,' admitted
     Bill. But anyhow, there was the regiment's posthumous children in
     the stand.

     "It was 11:26 when the old 15th stepped away from 23rd Street and
     Fifth Avenue. They looked the part of the fighting men they were.
     At an exact angle over their right shoulders were their
     long-bayonetted rifles. Around their waists were belts of
     cartridges. On their heads were their 'tin hats,' the steel helmets
     that saved many a life, as was attested by the dents and scars in
     some of them. Their eyes were straight forward and their chins,
     held high naturally, seemed higher than ever because of the leather
     straps that circled them. The fighters wore spiral puttees and
     their heavy hobbed hiking shoes, which caused a metallic clash as
     they scraped over the asphalt.

     "At the head of the line rode four platoons of mounted police,
     twelve abreast, and then, afoot and alone, Col. Hayward, who
     organized the 15th, drilled them when they had nothing but
     broomsticks to drill with, fathered them and loved them, and turned
     them into the fightingest military organization any man's army
     could want.

     "The French called them 'Hell Fighters.' The Germans after a few
     mix-ups named them 'Blutlustige Schwartzmanner' (blood-thirsty black
     men.) But Col. Bill, when he speaks of them uses the words 'those
     scrapping babies of mine,' and they like that best of all.
     Incidentally (when out of his hearing) they refer tenderly to him
     as 'Old Bill, that fightin' white man.' So it's fifty-fifty.

     "The Colonel had broken a leg in the war, so there were those who
     looked for him to limp as he strode out to face the hedge of
     spectators that must have numbered a quarter of a million. But nary
     a limp. With his full six feet drawn up erectly and his strong face
     smiling under his tin hat, he looked every bit the fighting man as
     he marched up the centre of the avenue, hailed every few feet by
     enthusiasts who knew him socially or in the law courts or in the
     business of the Public Service Commission.

     "'Didn't your leg hurt you, Bill?' his friends asked him later.

     "'Sure it hurt me; he said, 'but I wasn't going to peg along on the
     proudest day of my life!' Which this day was.

     "Behind the Colonel marched his staff, Lieut. Col. W.A. Pickering,
     Capt. Adjutant Robert Ferguson, Major E.A. Whittemore, Regimental
     Sergt. Majors C.A. Connick and B.W. Cheeseman, Regimental Sergts.
     L.S. Payne, H.W. Dickerson and W.W. Chisum, and Sergts. R.C. Craig,
     D.E. Norman and Kenneth Bellups.

     "The Police Band was at the front of the line of march, but it was
     a more famous band that provided the music to which the Black
     Buddies stepped northward and under the Arch of Victory--the
     wonderful jazz organization of Lieut. Jimmie Europe, the one
     colored commissioned officer of the regiment. But it wasn't jazz
     that started them off. It was the historic Marche du Regiment de
     Sambre et Meuse, which has been France's most popular parade piece
     since Napoleon's day. As rendered now it had all the crash of bugle
     fanfares which is its dominant feature, but an additional
     undercurrent of saxaphones and basses that put a new and more
     peppery tang into it.

     "One hundred strong, and the proudest band of blowers and pounders
     that ever reeled off marching melody--Lieut. Jimmie's boys lived
     fully up to their reputation. Their music was as sparkling as the
     sun that tempered the chill day.

     "Four of their drums were instruments which they had captured from
     the enemy in Alsace, and ma-an, what a beating was imposed upon
     those sheepskins! 'I'd very much admire to have them bush Germans
     a-watchin' me today!' said the drummer before the march started.
     The Old 15th doesn't say 'Boche' when it refers to the foe it beat.
     'Bush' is the word it uses, and it throws in 'German' for good
     measure.

     "Twenty abreast the heroes marched through a din that never ceased.
     They were as soldierly a lot as this town, now used to soldierly
     outfits, has ever seen. They had that peculiar sort of half
     careless, yet wholly perfect, step that the French display. Their
     lines were straight, their rifles at an even angle, and they moved
     along with the jaunty ease and lack of stiffness which comes only
     to men who have hiked far and frequently.

     "The colored folks on the official stand cut loose with a wild,
     swelling shriek of joy as the Police Band fell out at 60th Street
     and remained there to play the lads along when necessary and
     when--now entirely itself--the khaki-clad regiment filling the
     street from curb to curb, stepped by.

     "Colonel Hayward, with his hand at salute, turned and smiled
     happily as he saw his best friend, former Governor Whitman,
     standing with his other good friend, Governor Al Smith, with their
     silk tiles raised high over their heads. It was the Governor's
     first review in New York and the first time he and Mr. Whitman had
     got together since Inauguration Day. They were of different
     parties, but they were united in greeting Colonel Bill and his
     Babies.

     "From the stand, from the Knickerbocker Club across the street,
     from the nearby residences and from the curbing sounded shouts of
     individual greetings for the commander and his staff. But these
     were quickly drowned as a roar went up for Lieutenant Europe's
     band, with its commander at the head--not swinging a baton like a
     common ordinary drum-major, but walking along with the uniform and
     side-arms of an officer.

     "'The Salute to the 85th,' which they learned from their comrade
     regiment of the French Army of General Gouraud, was what they were
     playing, a stirring thing full of bugle calls and drum rolls, which
     Europe says is the best march he ever heard.

     "So swiftly did the platoons sweep by that it took a quick eye to
     recognize a brother or a son or a lover or a husband; but the eyes
     in the stand were quick, and there were shouts of 'Oh, Bill!' 'Hey,
     boy, here's your mammy!' 'Oliver, look at your baby!' (It wasn't
     learned whether this referred to a feminine person or one of those
     posthumous children Colonel Hayward spoke about.) 'Hallelujah, Sam!
     There you are, back home again!'

     "Half way down the ranks of the 2,992 paraders appeared the
     colors, and all hats came off with double reverence, for the Stars
     and Stripes and the blue regimental standard that two husky ebony
     lads held proudly aloft had been carried from here to France, from
     France to Germany and back again, and each bore the bronze token
     with its green and red ribbon that is called the Croix de Guerre.
     Keen eyes could see these little medals swinging from the silk of
     the flags, high toward the top of the poles.

     "At the end of the lines which filled the avenue came a single
     automobile, first, with a round-faced smiling white officer sitting
     in it and gazing happily from side to side. This was Major
     Lorillard Spencer, who was so badly wounded that he came back in
     advance of the outfit some weeks ago. There was a special racket of
     cheers for him, and then another for Major David L. 'Esperance,
     also wounded and riding.

     "Then a far different figure, but one of the most famous of the
     whole war. Henry Johnson! That Henry, once a mild-mannered
     chauffeur, who to protect his comrade, Needham Roberts, waded into
     a whole patrol of 'bush Germans' with a lot of hand grenades, his
     rifle and his trusty 'steel' in the shape of a bolo knife, and
     waded into them so energetically that when the casualties were
     counted there were four dead foemen in front of him, thirty-four
     others done up so badly they couldn't even crawl away, and heaven
     knows how many more had been put to flight.

     "And now Henry, in commemoration of this exploit, was riding alone
     in an open machine. In his left hand he held his tin hat. In his
     right he held high over his head a bunch of red and white lilies
     which some admirer had pressed upon him. And from side to side
     Henry--about as black as any man in the outfit if not a trifle
     blacker--bowed from the waist down with all the grace of a French
     dancing master. Yes, he bowed, and he grinned from ear to ear and
     he waved his lilies, and he didn't overlook a bet in the way of
     taking (and liking) all the tributes that were offered to him.

     "A fleet of motor ambulances, back of Henry, carried the wounded
     men who were unable to walk, nearly 200 of them. But though they
     couldn't walk, they could laugh and wave and shout thanks for the
     cheers, all of which they did.

     "Almost before the happy colored folk could realize at the official
     stand that here were their lads back home again, the last of the
     parade rolled along and it was over. With that formation and the
     step that was inspired by Lieutenant Europe's band--and by the
     Police Band which stood at 60th Street and kept playing after the
     music of the other died away--it required only seventeen minutes
     for the regiment to pass.

     "From this point north the welcome heightened in intensity. Along
     the park wall the colored people were banked deeply, everyone
     giving them the first ranks nearest the curb. Wives, sweethearts
     and mothers began to dash into the ranks and press flowers upon
     their men and march alongside with them, arm-in-arm. But this
     couldn't be, and Colonel Hayward had to stop the procession for a
     time and order the police to put the relatives back on the
     sidewalks. But that couldn't stop their noise.

     "The residents of the avenue paid fine tribute to the dusky
     marchers. It seemed inspiring, at 65th Street, to see Mrs. Vincent
     Astor standing in a window of her home, a great flag about her
     shoulders and a smaller one in her left hand, waving salutes. And
     Henry Frick, at an open window of his home at 73d Street, waving a
     flag and cheering at the top of his voice.

     "At the corner of 86th street was a wounded colored soldier
     wearing the Croix de Guerre and the Victoria Cross as well. Colonel
     Hayward pressed to his side with a hearty handshake, exclaiming:
     'Why, I thought you were dead!' It was one of his boys long ago
     invalided home.

     "No, sir, Colonel, not me. I ain't dead by a long ways yet,
     Colonel, sir,' said the lad.

     "'How's it going, Colonel?' asked a spectator.

     "'Fine,' said the Commander. 'All I'm worrying about is whether my
     boys are keeping step.' He needn't have worried.

     "The real height of the enthusiasm was reached when, after passing
     through 110th street and northward along Lenox Avenue, the heroes
     arrived in the real Black Belt of Harlem. This was the Home, Sweet
     Home for hundreds of them, the neighborhood they'd been born in and
     had grown up in, and from 129th Street north the windows and roofs
     and fireescapes of the five and six story apartment houses were
     filled to overflowing with their nearest and dearest.

     "The noise drowned the melody of Lieut. Europe's band. Flowers fell
     in showers from above. Men, women and children from the sidewalks
     overran the police and threw their arms about the paraders. There
     was a swirling maelstrom of dark humanity in the avenue. In the
     midst of all the racket there could be caught the personal
     salutations: 'Oh, honey!' 'Oh, Jim!' 'Oh, you Charlie!' 'There's my
     boy!' 'There's daddie!' 'How soon you coming home, son?' It took
     all the ability of scores of reserve policemen between 129th Street
     and 135th Street, where the uptown reviewing stand was, to pry
     those colored enthusiasts away from their soldiermen.

     "There was one particular cry which was taken up for blocks along
     this district: 'O-oh, you wick-ed Hen-nery Johnson! You wick-ed
     ma-an!' and Henry the Boche Killer still bowed and grinned more
     widely than ever, if possible.

     "'Looks like a funeral, Henry, them lilies!' called one admirer.

     "'Funeral for them bush Germans, boy! Sure a funeral for them
     bushes.' shouted Henry.

     "The official reviewing party, after the parade had passed 60th
     street, had hurried uptown, and so had the Police Band, and so
     there were some doings as the old 15th breezed past 135th Street.
     But no one up there cared for Governors or ex-Governors or
     dignitaries. Every eye was on the Black Buddies and every throat
     was opened wide for them.

     "At 145th Street the halt was called. Again there was a tremendous
     rush of men and women with outstretched arms; the military
     discipline had to prevail, and the soldiers were not allowed to
     break ranks, nor were the civilians (save the quickest of them)
     able to give the hugs and kisses they were overflowing with.

     "As rapidly as possible the fighters were sent down into the subway
     station and loaded aboard trains which took them down to the 71st
     Regiment Armory at 34th Street and Fourth Avenue. Here the
     galleries were filled with as many dusky citizens as could find
     places (maybe 2,500 or 3,000) and so great was the crowd in the
     neighborhood that the police had to block off 34th Street almost to
     Fifth Avenue on the west and Third on the east.

     "As each company came up from the subway the friends and relatives
     were allowed to go through the lines, and, while the boys stood
     still in ranks, but at ease, their kinsfolk were allowed to take
     them in their arms and tell them really and truly, in close-up
     fashion, what they thought about having them back.

     "When the entire regiment was in the Armory, the civilians in the
     gallery broke all bounds. They weren't going to stay up there while
     their heroes were down below on the drill-floor! Not they! They
     swarmed past the police and depot battalion and so jammed the floor
     that it was impossible for the tired Black Buddy even to sit down.
     Most of the boys had to take their chicken dinner--served by
     colored girls, and the chow, incidentally, from
     Delmonico's--standing up with arms about them and kisses
     punctuating assaults upon the plates.

     "'Some chow, hey Buddy?' would be heard.

     "'Pretty bon.' You'd get the answer. 'I'd like to have beaucoup
     more of this chicken.' There was noticeable a sprinkling of French
     words in the conversation of the Old 15th, and, indeed, some of
     them spoke it fluently.

     "'Sam told me,' one girl was heard to say, 'that he killed nineteen
     of them Germans all his own self, but nobody saw him and so he
     didn't get that Cross doo Gare.'"

Mustering out commenced at Camp Upton the following day. Thus ended the service of the 369th.
Their deeds are emblazoned on the roll of honor. Sons and grandsons of slaves, welcomed by
the plaudits of the second largest city in the world. What a record of progress in a trifle
over half a century of freedom. What an augury of promise for the future of the colored race,
and what an augury for the world freedom which they helped to create, and, overshadowing all
else, WHAT an object lesson it should be to our country at large: east, west, north, south,
that, "One touch of nature makes 'all men' kin." That in her opinion and treatment of her faithful,
loyal black citizens; niggardly, parsimonious, grudging and half-heartedly, how shameful she
has been, how great has been her sin; forgetting; or uncaring, even as Pharoh of old, that:
"God omnipotent liveth," and that "He is a JUST and a vengeful God!"

New York's welcome to her returning Negro boys was fairly typical of similar scenes all over
the country. Chicago gave a tremendous ovation to the heroes of the old 8th Infantry. In Washington,
Cleveland, and many other cities were great parades and receptions when theirs came home. In
hundreds of smaller towns and hamlets the demonstrations were repeated in miniature.

Although American sacrifices in the European War have been great, we find compensation for
them in many directions. Not the least of these is the vastly increased number of opportunities
the reconstruction period will offer to many of our citizens.

Today the United States is the leading nation of the world in virtually every line of activity.
We have been thrust into a new world leadership by the war. It behooves us to make the most
of our new opportunities. To equip ourselves creditably we must utilize the best there is in
the manhood and womanhood of our nation, drawing upon the intellect and ability of every person
who has either to give.

Approximately ten percent of our present population is colored. Every man, woman and child
of this ten percent should be given the opportunity to utilize whatever ability he has in the
struggle for the maintenance of world leadership which we now face. Just insofar as we refuse
to give this part of our population an opportunity to lend its strength to helping us set a
pace for the rest of the world, as best it can, so do we weaken the total strength of our nation.
In other words, we can either give our colored population the right and the opportunity to
do the best work of which it is capable and increase our efficiency, or we can deny them their
rights and opportunities, as we have done in many instances, and decrease our efficiency proportionately.

Of course, the question naturally arises as to how efficient the colored man and the colored
woman are when given the opportunity to demonstrate their ability. No better answer can be
found than that given by the splendid work of the majority of our colored people during the
war. On the firing line, in the camps behind the line, and in civil life our colored population
has done well indeed. Four hundred thousand Negroes offered their lives for their country.
Many more made noble sacrifices in civilian life.

It was my privilege not only to observe the work done in civil life by colored persons in this
country during the war, but to visit colored troops in France during hostilities.

There is no question that the Negro has given a splendid account of himself both as an exceptionally
fearless fighting man and as a member of non-combatant troops. I made diligent effort to ascertain
the manner in which the Negro troops conducted themselves behind the lines. It is much easier
for a man to become lax in his conduct there than in actual fighting. Without exception every
officer I questioned stated he could not ask for more obedient, willing, harder working or
more patriotic troops than the Negro regiments had proven themselves to be. Every account I
have read regarding the engagement of colored men in fighting units and every case in which
I had the opportunity to inquire personally regarding the bravery of colored troops has led
me to believe our colored men were as good soldiers as could be found in either our own army
or the armies of our allies, regardless of color.

One needs only to scan the records of the War Department and the official reports of General
Pershing to find positive proof of the valor, endurance and patriotism of the colored troops
who battled for liberty and democracy for all the world. The entire nation notes with pride
the splendid service of the 365th to the 372nd Infantry units, inclusive. When historians tell
the story of the sanguinary conflicts at Chateau Thierry, in the Forest of Argonne, in the
Champagne sector, Belleau Wood and at Metz, the record will give reason to believe that the
victories achieved on those memorable fields might have shown a different result had it not
been for the remarkable staying and fighting abilities of the colored troops. French, English
and American commanding officers unite in singing the praises of these gallant warriors and
agree that in the entire Allied Army no element contributed more signally than did they to
the final downfall of the German Military Machine in proportion to their numbers.

Not only did the combatant units of the colored troops win laurels across the sea, but the
301st Stevedore Regiment was cited for exceptionally efficient work, having broken all records
by unloading and coaling the giant steamer "Leviathan" in fifty-six hours, competing successfully
with the best stevedore detachments on the western front of France. Everywhere, behind the
lines as well as when facing shot, shell and gas, the colored soldiers have given a most creditable
account of themselves and are entitled to the product of their patriotism and loyalty.

Those who remained at home during the war realize fully that the patriotic service rendered
by colored persons in civil life, both in doing war work and in the purchase of Liberty Bonds
and War Savings Stamps is to be commended.

Surely after the many demonstrations of patriotism both on the battlefield and at home the
white people of this country will be willing to accord the colored people a square deal by
at least giving them a fair opportunity to earn a livelihood in accordance with their ability.

We have been asking the impossible of the colored man and the colored woman. We have demanded
that they be honest, self-respecting citizens, and at the same time we have forced them into
surroundings which almost make this result impossible. In many places they are deprived of
a fair opportunity to obtain education or amusement in a decent environment. Only the most
menial positions are offered them. An educated girl particularly has practically no opportunity
to earn a livelihood in the manner for which her education fits her.

We whites of America must begin to realize that Booker T. Washington was right when he said
it was impossible to hold a man in the gutter without staying there with him, because "if you
get up, he will get up." We do not want to remain in the gutter. We, therefore, must help the
Negro to rise.

If we are to obtain the best results from colored labor, unions should admit it to their membership.
It is not the universal practice to admit colored persons to unions. The result, of course,
is that even if a colored man has the opportunity to learn a trade, knowing he will not be
permitted to enjoy the benefits of a union, he does not have the highest incentive for learning
it. The north is especially neglectful in not providing openings for the colored men in trades.
In the south it is not unusual to see a colored brick-mason working alongside a white brick-mason.
But in the north the best a colored man can hope for on a building job now is a position as
a hod-carrier or mortar-mixer.

When the alien arrives in this country, he is given opportunity for virtually every kind of
employment. But the colored man who is born in the United States, and, therefore, should share
in its opportunities, is not given as fair a chance as the alien worker.

Naturally, we cannot hope that these conditions will be remedied in a day or a month nor can
the colored man expect that the millennium will come to him through the action of white people
alone. He can improve his chances of securing greater rights and opportunities in the United
States, if he will make the most of the limited opportunities now afforded him. He who does
the best he can with the tools he has at hand is bound in time to demand by his good work better
tools for the performance of more important and profitable duties. The conviction is general
that "He that is faithful in that which is least is faithful also in much."

The late Colonel Theodore Roosevelt, who was a good friend of the black man as well as the
white, struck the right note in his introduction to the biography of Booker T. Washington when
he said:

     "If there is any lesson more essential than any other for this
     country to learn, it is the lesson that the enjoyment of rights
     should be made conditional upon the performance of duty."

There exist certain rights which every colored man and woman may enjoy regardless of laws and
prejudice. For instance, nothing can prevent a colored person from practicing industry, honesty,
saving and decency, if he or she desires to practice them.

The helpfulness of the colored race to the Government need not be confined to fighting in the
army nor to service in the manifold domestic callings. It is the duty of the colored citizens,
as it is their right, to have a part in the substantial development of the nation and to assist
in financing its operations for war or peace. The colored people, as a rule, are industrious
and thrifty and have come to appreciate their importance as a factor in the economic and financial
world, as indicated by their prosperous business enterprises, their large holdings in real
estate, their management of banks, and their scrupulous handling of the millions of deposits
entrusted to their care. This capital, saved through sacrifice, has been placed in a most generous
manner at the disposal of the Government throughout its period of need, and the list of corporations,
fraternities and individuals who have aided in bringing success to American arms by the purchase
of Liberty Bonds and War Savings Stamps and by contributions to other war relief agencies,
is indeed a long one.

Opportunities of the colored people to make safe investment of their savings never were so
great as they are today. The financial program the Government has entered upon and is continuing
to carry out to meet the expense of the war gives a chance to save in sums as small as twenty-five
cents and makes an investment upon which return of both principal and interest is absolutely
guaranteed. Too often colored people have entrusted their savings to wholly irresponsible persons,
lost them through the dishonesty of these persons, and in discouragement abandoned all attempts
at saving. Today, however, there is no excuse for any man not saving a certain amount of his
earnings no matter how small it may be. It is a poor person, indeed, who cannot invest twenty-five
cents at stated intervals in a Thrift Stamp. Many are able also to buy small Liberty Bonds.
It is a duty and a privilege for colored persons to help the Government finance the war, which
was for both whites and blacks.

It is the particular duty of white persons, in cooperation with the most influential members
of their own race, to explain these Government financial plans to the colored men and women
that they may make safe investments, acquire a competence, and thus become better citizens.

It is my belief that the Negro soldier returning from France will be a better citizen than
when he left. He will be benefited mentally and physically by his military training and experience.
He will have a broader vision. He will appreciate American citizenship. He will know, I believe,
that freedom, for which he risked his life and all, is not license. He will find his brothers
at home who did not go overseas better for their war sacrifices. Both the soldier and the civilian
have proved their devoted loyalty. Justice demands that they now be rewarded with an equal
chance with the white man to climb as high in the industrial and professional world as their
individual capacity warrants.

     Publisher's Note: At our request, Mr. Sweeney consented to the
     reproduction of this poem, which with the accompanying letter from
     the late Dr. Booker T. Washington, and the comment by the Chicago
     Daily News, appeared in that newspaper just prior to New Years Day,
     1914. We regard it as a powerful argument, affecting the Negro's
     past condition and his interests.

"President Lincoln signed the emancipation proclamation Sept. 22, 1862. It went into effect
at the beginning of January, 1863. New Year's day has thus become 'Emancipation day' to the
colored people of the United States and to all members of the white race who realize the great
significance of Lincoln's act of striking off the shackles of an enslaved race. Services on
that day combine honor to Lincoln with appeals to the people of Lincoln's nation to grant justice
to the Negro. A remarkable appeal of this sort is embodied in the poem here presented.

"W. Allison Sweeney, author of "The Other Fellow's Burden" is well known among his people as
writer, editor and lecturer. His poem, which sketches with powerful strokes the lamentable
history of the colored race in America and tells of their worthy achievements in the face of
discouragements, deserves a thoughtful reading by all persons. Of this poem and its author
Dr. Booker T. Washington writes as follows:

"TUSKEGEE INSTITUTE, ALA., Dec. 24, 1913.--To the Editor of the Chicago Daily News: I have
read with sincere interest and appreciation W. Allison Sweeney's poem, 'The Other Fellow's
Burden.' All through Mr. Sweeney's poem there is an invitation put in rather a delicate and
persuasive way, but nevertheless it is there, for the white man to put himself in the negro's
place and then to lay his hand upon his heart and ask how he would like for the other fellow
to treat him. If every man who reads this poem will try sincerely to answer this question I
believe that Mr. Sweeney's poem will go a long way toward bringing about better and more helpful
conditions.

"Mr. Sweeney is, of course, a member of the Negro race and writes from what might be called
the inside. He knows of Negro aspirations, of Negro strivings and of Negro accomplishments.
He has had an experience of many years as writer and lecturer for and to Negroes and he knows
probably as well as anyone wherein the Negro feels that 'the shoe is made to pinch.' The poem,
it seems to me, possesses intrinsic merit and I feel quite sure that Mr. Sweeney's appeal to
the great American people, for fair play will not fall upon deaf ears. Booker T. Washington."

     The "white man's burden" has been
       told the world,
     But what of the other fellow's--
     The "lion's whelp"?

     Lest you forget,
     May he not lisp his?
     Not in arrogance,
     Not in resentment,
     But that truth
     May stand foursquare?

     This then,
     Is the Other Fellow's Burden.

       *       *       *       *       *

     Brought into existence
     Through the enforced connivance
     Of a helpless motherhood
     Misused through generations--
     America's darkest sin!--
     There courses through his veins
     In calm insistence--incriminating irony
     Of the secrecy of blighting lust!
     The best and the vilest blood
     Of the South's variegated strain;
     Her statesmen and her loafers,
     Her chivalry and her ruffians.

