§ 61. Transeptal chapels occasionally appear in unusual positions. For example, at Branscombe
in south Devon, there is a tower between nave and chancel. There are, however, no transepts;
but transeptal chapels are built out from the walls of the aisleless nave, west of the tower.
These chapels appear to be enlargements of earlier transeptal chapels; while the tower seems
to have been built over the chancel of the earlier church. Heckington church in south Lincolnshire
was rebuilt in the fourteenth century. The nave has aisles with transeptal chapels, very regular
and symmetrical in plan, but is continued beyond the opening of the transeptal projections
by an aisleless bay, east of which comes the chancel arch. At Bottesford in north Lincolnshire,
where much rebuilding was done in the thirteenth century, the transeptal chapels open from
the bay east of the chancel arch. In the case of Heckington, the earlier church was probably
cruciform: when the rebuilding came to pass, the ground plan of the western portion of the
church was kept, while the chancel was built on an extended plan, and the site of the western
part of the old chancel thrown into the nave. The case of Bottesford is probably accounted
for in the opposite way: the site was not enlarged eastwards, but the chancel was lengthened
by the absorption of the eastern part of the old nave.

§ 62. There are a number of cases in which transeptal chapels have been kept from an earlier
cruciform plan, in which they may have formed true transepts. The fine church of Oundle, whose
western tower and spire already have been mentioned as built about 1400, has very fully developed
transeptal chapels. The nave and aisles, and the greater part of the chapels, are, in their
present state, work of the thirteenth century; but the eastern bay of the present nave was
entirely remodelled about 1350, when a clerestory was added. This bay had evidently been designed
to carry a central tower: the nave arcades stop west of it, and there is a thick piece of wall
between them and the arches opening from it into the chapels. These arches and the chancel
arch were entirely reconstructed at the time just mentioned. The western arch, however, was
removed, and an original crossing was thus converted into a bay of the nave. Whether there
ever was a central tower is, of course, an uncertain point; but the building of a west tower
on a new site not many years after this reconstruction is a fact which makes the previous existence
of a central tower probable. The removal of a central tower would be due to one of two causes.
Either its supports were weak, or it blocked up the space between nave and chancel too much.
The central tower of Petersfield in Hampshire was taken down; but its east wall still remains
between nave and chancel. However, if there are cases in which a central tower was removed,
and a west tower built, there are probably more in which a central tower was planned, and then
abandoned. Campsall church, near Doncaster, has unmistakable signs of a projected cruciform
plan with a central tower, and has a regular crossing with transepts. But it is probable that
the builders changed their minds before the nave was finished; and, although they doubtless
left the arches, which were intended to bear their tower, for a later generation to remove
and rebuild, they went westward and built a tower at the other end of the nave. This tower
was finished towards the end of the third quarter of the twelfth century. The builders of Newark
church, who were peculiarly susceptible to after-thoughts, apparently planned a central tower
in the later part of the twelfth century. It is difficult to explain otherwise the slender
clusters of shafts which project into the nave from the first pier west of the chancel arch
on either side. Such piers were hardly capable of bearing the weight of a tower; and so the
builders must have thought. Early in the thirteenth century, they began the present west tower,
the first stage of a rebuilding which, with long intervals, continued into the sixteenth century.
The final step by which the church reached its present plan was the addition of a transeptal
chapel to either aisle, opposite the site which, more than three centuries before, had been
chosen for the piers of the abandoned central tower.

§ 63. Even in strictly cruciform churches, transepts were sometimes treated with a freedom
which was more appropriate to the transeptal chapel. It is not unusual to find one transept
longer than the other, as at Felmersham in Bedfordshire. Here, however, the transepts are not
only of different lengths, but the south transept is loftier, as well as shorter, than the
north, which is little more than a chapel-like excrescence from the tower. At Witney in Oxfordshire
both transepts are of great projection, but the north transept is slightly longer than that
on the south. Both have considerable traces of thirteenth century work; but, in the fourteenth
century, the north transept was lengthened by an addition divided into two stories, the upper
of which was a chapel, while the lower was probably a vaulted bone-hole. The south transept
was also lengthened; and a chapel was built, projecting from its east wall near the south end.
Both transepts have western aisles: that of the north transept, which stops short of the two-storied
extension, contained an altar near the north end. There are traces of at least three other
altars in the transepts, so that there was excellent reason for their somewhat unusual projection.
At St Mary's, Beverley, an eastern aisle was added to the south transept in the fifteenth century,
to provide more room for altars. The north transept already had a large chapel of two stages
upon its eastern side, so that the plan was treated unsymmetrically. The tower of St Mary's
at Stafford rests on heavy piers and narrow arches, and is flanked by north and south transepts.
However, while the south transept, of good thirteenth century work, is rather small and short,
the north transept was rebuilt with great magnificence in the fourteenth century, and its internal
effect is that of a large side chapel rather than a transept. Aisled transepts are never common,
even in large churches. Instances in which a transeptal chapel is aisled are even less common.
The aisled south chapel at Medbourne in Leicestershire has been mentioned in an earlier chapter.
Oakham and Langham churches in Rutland have large transeptal chapels with western aisles: the
north chapel at Langham was removed in the fifteenth century, when the aisles of the nave were
widened.

§ 64. Reference has also been made to those plans in which the side walls of a tower between
chancel and nave have been pierced with arches, and quasi-transepts have been constructed.
This is very noticeable at Almondsbury in Gloucestershire, where the transeptal chapels, turned
at a later date into burial-places for two local families, are very large and roomy. The cross-plan
of Burford church in Oxfordshire was formed in this way, early in the thirteenth century. Plans
like this, in which the chapels grow out of the central space, instead of being planned from
the first in relation to it, are imperfectly cruciform; but are highly characteristic of the
irregular methods of development pursued by the builders of medieval parish churches.

§ 65. Towers above transeptal chapels are not uncommon. The two transeptal towers at Ottery
St Mary in Devon were doubtless copied from the arrangement at Exeter cathedral: there was
an altar against the east wall of each chapel. The tower at Coln St Aldwyn, Gloucestershire,
rises above a south chapel projecting from an aisleless nave. This addition was made in the
fifteenth century. At Duddington in Northamptonshire the ground floor of the tower virtually
forms, in its present state, an eastward extension of the south aisle parallel to the western
part of the chancel: the original plan was probably similar to the present plan of Coln St
Aldwyn. The noble church of Whaplode had transeptal chapels projecting from the east end of
either aisle: the thirteenth century tower is above the south chapel. At Clymping in Sussex
the arrangement is very peculiar. The church, which is almost entirely of the thirteenth century,
has north and south transeptal chapels, and only a south aisle to the nave. The tower, which
is at the end of the south chapel, is earlier than the rest of the building, but is clearly
in its original position.

§ 66. The early progress of Gothic art in parish churches was marked by a general lengthening
of chancels, analogous to that elongation of the eastern arm which is characteristic of cathedrals
and monastic churches. This may be seen very clearly at Iffley, near Oxford, and Avening in
Gloucestershire, where vaulted chancels of the twelfth century were lengthened in the thirteenth
century by an eastern bay. Sometimes, as at St Mary's, Shrewsbury, where successive generations
of builders were very faithful to the remains of earlier work, the old sedilia of a twelfth
century chancel have been left in place. But, as a rule, the enlargement of the chancel implied
an entire reconstruction, or the entire transformation of old work by the insertion of new
windows or buttresses. From the end of the twelfth century onwards, the normal chancel of the
parish church has a length which is from a half to two-thirds of the length of the nave, the
nave being slightly broader than the chancel. This is the case with most of those Norfolk churches,
which may be regarded as the ideal examples of parish church planning. Room was in this way
secured both for the altar and the quire stalls, for which the ordinary rectangular chancel
offered a very restricted space.

§ 67. Sometimes a new chancel encroached upon the nave. This happened at Skipwith in Yorkshire,
where the church underwent some alteration about the middle of the fourteenth century. The
new chancel was made of the same width as the nave; and apparently the old chancel arch was
entirely removed, and its site, with the part of the nave immediately west of it, made into
an extra bay of the chancel. No new chancel arch was built. One of the most curious and perplexing
instances, in which additional westward room has been given to the chancel, and there is no
structural division between chancel and nave, is at Tansor in Northants. The perplexity which
arises here is due to the plentiful re-use of old work by the builders, the presence of which
in unexpected places makes the history of the building a nearly insoluble puzzle. The church
reached its present length about 1140, when probably the Saxon nave was left as the west part
of a church, which was now of the same width the whole way through, and had no chancel arch.
Some forty years later, narrow aisles of three bays were added to the nave; and, about the
same time, a transeptal chapel may have been thrown out from the south wall, immediately east
of the south aisle. As the church stands on southward sloping ground, there seems to have been
no room for another chapel on the north side. In the thirteenth century, the aisles were lengthened
eastwards, to flank the western part of the chancel. The builders moved back the eastern responds
of the old arcades to the points from which the lengthened arcades were to start. They set
themselves, however, a difficult problem when they reserved a space at the end of the north
aisle for a sacristy, and set the respond on the west side of this narrow bay. Their north
aisle thus consisted of five bays and a very narrow eastern bay for the sacristy. On the south
side no space corresponding to the sacristy was marked out, although the eastern respond was
placed in a line with the east side of the opening of the sacristy. The number of bays on the
south side had to be five, as there was no room for six. The result is that the pillars of
the arcades, with the exception of those of the two bays furthest west, which were left unaltered,
are not opposite each other. In the meantime, the old transeptal chapel was left standing between
a south aisle and a short south chapel of the chancel. About 1300, the aisle and chapel seem
to have been widened to the full length of the transeptal chapel, and thus a broad south aisle
was formed. In this plan, the chancel proper projects for some distance east of the aisles;
but, for ritual purposes, the eastern part of the nave, corresponding to the eastern bay of
the north aisle and the sacristy bay beyond, forms, and has formed since the twelfth century,
a western extension of the chancel.

§ 68. The addition of aisles to chancels was an even more gradual process than the addition
of aisles to naves; and, as a rule, the aisles were at first mere chapels. Chancel aisles or
chapels of twelfth century date are not very common in smaller churches. But a plan like that
at Melbourne, where the apsidal chapels east of the transepts flank the chancel very closely,
leads naturally to the provision of chapels communicating directly with the chancel. The logical
consequence of such a plan is seen at Oundle, at the close of the twelfth century, where rectangular
chapels were built along the north and south walls of the western part of the chancel. The
walls were pierced with broad, low arches, and arches were built between the chapels and the
transepts. The chapels, in this instance, are at the back of the quire stalls; and a long projecting
piece of aisleless chancel was left beyond them, to which, in the fifteenth century, a large
northern vestry was added. This plan, where both chancel chapels were added at much the same
time and on the same scale, is symmetrical. But, as a rule, chancel chapels were built just
when they were needed. At Arksey, near Doncaster, where, as at St Mary's, Shrewsbury, the walls
of late twelfth century transepts have been largely preserved inside the church in spite of
many alterations, the chancel is a long aisleless twelfth century building east of a central
tower. Towards the end of the thirteenth century, the north chancel wall was pierced, and a
narrow chapel built, which was one bay shorter than the chancel itself. In the fourteenth and
fifteenth centuries the nave was enlarged, and the south aisle was widened to the full length
of the south transept. A south chapel was added to the chancel: its outer wall was continued
from the south wall of the transept, and carried eastwards for a little distance beyond the
east wall of the chancel. Thus chancel, south chapel, and north chapel, are all of three different
lengths and breadths, the south chapel being the longest and widest. When the south chapel
was built, a considerable portion of the old chancel wall was left untouched on its north side.
It is obvious that the methods of building employed in such additions were those which have
been described in connexion with the addition of aisles to a nave. It is no uncommon thing
to enter, as at Tamworth, a chancel aisle or chantry chapel, and find substantial remains of
the old outer wall of the chancel, which has been pierced with one or more arches of communication.

