2. But the affairs of the Canaanites were at this thee in a flourishing condition, and they
expected the Israelites with a great army at the city Bezek, having put the government into
the hands of Adonibezek, which name denotes the Lord of Bezek, for Adoni in the Hebrew tongue
signifies Lord. Now they hoped to have been too hard for the Israelites, because Joshua was
dead; but when the Israelites had joined battle with them, I mean the two tribes before mentioned,
they fought gloriously, and slew above ten thousand of them, and put the rest to flight; and
in the pursuit they took Adonibezek, who, when his fingers and toes were cut off by them, said,
"Nay, indeed, I was not always to lie concealed from God, as I find by what I now endure, while
I have not been ashamed to do the same to seventy-two kings." [11] So they carried him alive
as far as Jerusalem; and when he was dead, they buried him in the earth, and went on still
in taking the cities: and when they had taken the greatest part of them, they besieged Jerusalem;
and when they had taken the lower city, which was not under a considerable time, they slew
all the inhabitants; but the upper city was not to be taken without great difficulty, through
the strength of its walls, and the nature of the place.

3. For which reason they removed their camp to Hebron; and when they had taken it, they slew
all the inhabitants. There were till then left the race of giants, who had bodies so large,
and countenances so entirely different from other men, that they were surprising to the sight,
and terrible to the hearing. "Lore their feet stuck back in the
stirrups, she had let go, and his eyes fixed on me, she replied:" I stay, I got my free ride "And
quietly she added: " My mother would probably still ! here vorueberkommen
"I felt that this was a lie, the blood boiling hot shot me in the
face, I roared in the ears;. the little liar had suddenly thrown the
veil of mystery about us.

 Now the tribes of Judah and Simeon took the cities which were in the mountainous part of
Canaan, as also Askelon and Ashdod, of those that lay near the sea; but Gaza and Ekron escaped
them, for they, lying in a flat country, and having a great number of chariots, sorely galled
those that attacked them. So these tribes, when they were grown very rich by this war, retired
to their own cities, and laid aside their weapons of war.

5. But the Benjamites, to whom belonged Jerusalem, permitted its inhabitants to pay tribute.
So they all left off, the one to kill, and the other to expose themselves to danger, and had
time to cultivate the ground. The rest of the tribes imitated that of Benjamin, and did the
same; and, contenting themselves with the tributes that were paid them, permitted the Canaanites
to live in peace.

6. However, the tribe of Ephraim, when they besieged Bethel, made no advance, nor performed
any thing worthy of the time they spent, and of the pains they took about that siege; yet did
they persist in it, still sitting down before the city, though they endured great trouble thereby:
but, after some time, they caught one of the citizens that came to them to get necessaries,
and they gave him some assurances that, if he would deliver up the city to them, they would
preserve him and his kindred; so he aware that, upon those terms, he would put the city into
their hands. Accordingly, he that, thus betrayed the city was preserved with his family; and
the Israelites slew all the inhabitants, and retained the city for themselves.

7. After this, the Israelites grew effeminate as to fighting any more against their enemies,
but applied themselves to the cultivation of the land, which producing them great plenty and
riches, they neglected the regular disposition of their settlement, and indulged themselves
in luxury and pleasures; nor were they any longer careful to hear the laws that belonged to
their political government: whereupon God was provoked to anger, and put them in mind, first,
how, contrary to his directions, they had spared the Canaanites; and, after that, how those
Canaanites, as opportunity served, used them very barbarously. But the Israelites, though they
were in heaviness at these admonitions from God, yet were they still very unwilling to go to
war; and since they got large tributes from the Canaanites, and were indisposed for taking
pains by their luxury, they suffered their aristocracy to be corrupted also, and did not ordain
themselves a senate, nor any other such magistrates as their laws had formerly required, but
they were very much given to cultivating their fields, in order to get wealth; which great
indolence of theirs brought a terrible sedition upon them, and they proceeded so far as to
fight one against another, from the following occasion:--

8. There was a Levite [12] a man of a vulgar family, that belonged to the tribe of Ephraim,
and dwelt therein: this man married a wife from Bethlehem, which is a place belonging to the
tribe of Judah. Now he was very fond of his wife, and overcome with her beauty; but he was
unhappy in this, that he did not meet with the like return of affection from her, for she was
averse to him, which did more inflame his passion for her, so that they quarreled one with
another perpetually; and at last the woman was so disgusted at these quarrels, that she left
her husband, and went to her parents in the fourth month. The husband being very uneasy at
this her departure, and that out of his fondness for her, came to his father and mother-in-law,
and made up their quarrels, and was reconciled to her, and lived with them there four days,
as being kindly treated by her parents. On the fifth day he resolved to go home, and went away
in the evening; for his wife's parents were loath to part with their daughter, and delayed
the time till the day was gone. Now they had one servant that followed them, and an ass on
which the woman rode; and when they were near Jerusalem, having gone already thirty furlongs,
the servant advised them to take up their lodgings some where, lest some misfortune should
befall them if they traveled in the night, especially since they were not far off enemies,
that season often giving reason for suspicion of dangers from even such as are friends; but
the husband was not pleased with this advice, nor was he willing to take up his lodging among
strangers, for the city belonged to the Canaanites, but desired rather to go twenty furlongs
farther, and so to take their lodgings in some Israelite city. 

"I think so!" I replied. And we went to hurry than before.

Already we stood at the exit of the road, opposite the last house in the city. In the light that
fell under the lime from the window of Schneiderhaeuschens, I saw a girl standing near them at
a well. I was not allowed to continue. But also put Lore foot on the pavement, I felt as if I could
they not let go of me.

"Lore," I said uneasily, "I wanted you
to say something."

She took a step back.

"What?" she asked.

"Wait a while!"

She turned around and stayed quietly in front of me.

I heard them over with their hands stroked her hair as she tied
her handkerchief tightly around the neck, but I searched long in vain
to get hold of the idea that floated like a dark mist before my eyes.
"Lore," I said finally, "you are still angry with me?"

She looked down and shook his head. "Will you be here tomorrow?"

She hesitated a moment.

"I would not expect otherwise of the evening," she said.

"Lore, you're lying, that's not it, tell me the truth!"

I had taken her hand, but she withdrew from me again.

"To say something, Lore - Will not you speak?"

For a while she stood silently in front of me, then she opened her
eyes and looked at me.

"I know it well," she said softly, "but once you get married just one of the fine ladies." I
fell silent. To this objection I was not prepared, at such tremendous
things I had never thought of and did nothing to answer.

And before I knew what was happening, I heard a soft "good night" of the girl, and soon I saw it disappear
over there in the shadow of the houses.

I heard even the careful pressing a front door, the gentle striking of the Tuerschelle, then
I turned and walked slowly back through the castle garden. Without going until dinner in the living
room of my parents, I crept upstairs to my room. How drunk I threw
myself into the pillows.

After a
quarter of an hour to go I heard the Stubentuer, and by the half-open
eyelids, I saw my mother with a lamp connect to my bed.

She bent over me, but I closed my eyes and dreamed on.

Despite the unpromising farewell to me was, as my hand would have
taken a full garland of roses, which now will go to in all future
into life along the Nazis.

As much as I but that night the urge to be alone felt, as much I was moved the next morning among
human beings. I had a new feeling of freedom and superiority in me
that I wanted to feel for others also.

Once I had breakfast and some uncomfortable questions my mother had done enough makeshift, I went
into the workshop of my friend Christopher. He was busily engaged
in select mahogany veneers and small to cut.

"What are you doing here for beautiful?" I asked. "A sewing box,"
he said without looking up. "For Lenore Beauregard, my sister wants
to give it to her for her birthday."

I looked at him from the side, a cocky smile came over me. "The lore
is probably your treasure, Christopher?"

The square head of the good boy was below the forehead covered with
hair like blood in this treacherous question.

He even seemed embarrassed about his falling into anger.

"You had but omit them from your school are Latin dance!" he said
grimly as he went in with his knife in the Furnierblaettchen.

"You're probably jealous, Christopher?" I asked. But he did not answer, he muttered half for himself: -
This triumph, however, should remain only my art, because I struggled
in vain to meet again alone with Lore "would have helped my sister
to be!".

A couple of times but over the summer she met me on Sunday afternoons behind the gardens on the sidewalk,
but Christopher and his sister accompanied them, and the good boy was so defiantly beside her, as if
he a world of Latins would have to dispute do they too sought even
if I started a conversation with them, apparently, to have the others
to move on.

Later than
at the beginning of the Michaelmas market, the carousel was re-opened,
I dared to hope again.

One evening after another
as soon as the dawn broke, I found me on the spot, to the great chagrin
of my friend Fritz, of which I was looking for me untie the rapidly
changing pretexts.

But
just as often as I looked in vain among the young riders, who came
at times to discover, the slender brown for whose sake I had come alone.
Lonely I wandered through the dark corridors of the castle gardens
and consumed by the memory of a runaway truebselig happiness.
 The rest of their tribe were also making great preparation for war, for they were
so insolently mad as also to resolve to repel force by force.

10. When it was related to the Israelites what the inhabitants of Gibeah had resolved upon,
they took their oath that no one of them would give his daughter in marriage to a Benjamite,
but make war with greater fury against them than we have learned our forefathers made war against
the Canaanites; and sent out presently an army of four hundred thousand against them, while
the Benjamites' army-was twenty-five thousand and six hundred; five hundred of whom were excellent
at slinging stones with their left hands, insomuch that when the battle was joined at Gibeah
the Benjamites beat the Israelites, and of them there fell two thousand men; and probably more
had been destroyed had not the night came on and prevented it, and broken off the fight; so
the Benjamites returned to the city with joy, and the Israelites returned to their camp in
a great fright at what had happened. On the next day, when they fought again, the Benjamites
beat them; and eighteen thousand of the Israelites were slain, and the rest deserted their
camp out of fear of a greater slaughter. So they came to Bethel, [13] a city that was near
their camp, and fasted on the next day; and besought God, by Phineas the high priest, that
his wrath against them might cease, and that he would be satisfied with these two defeats,
and give them the victory and power over their enemies. Accordingly God promised them so to
do, by the prophesying of Phineas.

11. When therefore they had divided the army into two parts, they laid the one half of them
in ambush about the city Gibeah by night, while the other half attacked the Benjamites, who
retiring upon the assault, the Benjamites pursued them, while the Hebrews retired by slow degrees,
as very desirous to draw them entirely from the city; and the other followed them as they retired,
till both the old men and the young men that were left in the city, as too weak to fight, came
running out together with them, as willing to bring their enemies under. However, when they
were a great way from the city the Hebrews ran away no longer, but turned back to fight them,
and lifted up the signal they had agreed on to those that lay in ambush, who rose up, and with
a great noise fell upon the enemy. Now, as soon as ever they perceived themselves to be deceived,
they knew not what to do; and when they were driven into a certain hollow place which was in
a valley, they were shot at by those that encompassed them, till they were all destroyed, excepting
six hundred, which formed themselves into a close body of men, and forced their passage through
the midst of their enemies, and fled to the neighboring mountains, and, seizing upon them,
remained there; but the rest of them, being about twenty-five thousand, were slain. Then did
the Israelites burn Gibeah, and slew the women, and the males that were under age; and did
the same also to the other cities of the Benjamites; and, indeed, they were enraged to that
degree, that they sent twelve thousand men out of the army, and gave them orders to destroy
Jabesh Gilead, because it did not join with them in fighting against the Benjamites. Accordingly,
those that were sent slew the men of war, with their children and wives, excepting four hundred
virgins. To such a degree had they proceeded in their anger, because they not only had the
suffering of the Levite's wife to avenge, but the slaughter of their own soldiers.

12. However, they afterward were sorry for the calamity they had brought upon the Benjamites,
and appointed a fast on that account, although they supposed those men had suffered justly
for their offense against the laws; so they recalled by their ambassadors those six hundred
which had escaped. These had seated themselves on a certain rock called Rimmon, which was in
the wilderness. So the ambassadors lamented not only the disaster that had befallen the Benjamites,
but themselves also, by this destruction of their kindred; and persuaded them to take it patiently;
and to come and unite with them, and not, so far as in them lay, to give their suffrage to
the utter destruction of the tribe of Benjamin; and said to them, "We give you leave to take
the whole land of Benjamin to yourselves, and as much prey as you are able to carry away with
you." So these men with sorrow confessed, that what had been done was according to the decree
of God, and had happened for their own wickedness; and assented to those that invited them,
and came down to their own tribe. The Israelites also gave them the four hundred virgins of
Jabesh Gilead for wives; but as to the remaining two hundred, they deliberated about it how
they might compass wives enough for them, and that they might have children by them; and whereas
they had, before the war began, taken an oath, that no one would give his daughter to wife
to a Benjamite, some advised them to have no regard to what they had sworn, because the oath
had not been taken advisedly and judiciously, but in a passion, and thought that they should
do nothing against God, if they were able to save a whole tribe which was in danger of perishing;
and that perjury was then a sad and dangerous thing, not when it is done out of necessity,
but when it is done with a wicked intention. But when the senate were affrighted at the very
name of perjury, a certain person told them that he could show them a way whereby they might
procure the Benjamites wives enough, and yet keep their oath. They asked him what his proposal
was. He said, "That three times in a year, when we meet in Shiloh, our wives and our daughters
accompany us: let then the Benjamites be allowed to steal away, and marry such women as they
can catch, while we will neither incite them nor forbid them; and when their parents take it
ill, and desire us to inflict punishment upon them, we will tell them, that they were themselves
the cause of what had happened, by neglecting to guard their daughters, and that they ought
not to be over angry at the Benjamites, since that anger was permitted to rise too high already."
So the Israelites were persuaded to follow this advice, and decreed, That the Benjamites should
be allowed thus to steal themselves wives. So when the festival was coming on, these two hundred
Benjamites lay in ambush before the city, by two and three together, and waited for the coming
of the virgins, in the vineyards and other places where they could lie concealed. Accordingly
the virgins came along playing, and suspected nothing of what was coming upon them, and walked
after an unguarded manner, so those that laid scattered in the road, rose up, and caught hold
of them: by this means these Benjamites got them wives, and fell to agriculture, and took good
care to recover their former happy state. And thus was this tribe of the Benjamites, after
they had been in danger of entirely perishing, saved in the manner forementioned, by the wisdom
of the Israelites; and accordingly it presently flourished, and soon increased to be a multitude,
and came to enjoy all other degrees of happiness. And such was the conclusion of this war.

CHAPTER 3. How The Israelites After This Misfortune Grew Wicked And Served The Assyrians; And
How God Delivered Them By Othniel, Who Ruled Over The Forty Years.

1. Now it happened that the tribe of Dan suffered in like manner with the tribe of Benjamin;
and it came to do so on the occasion following:--When the Israelites had already left off the
exercise of their arms for war, and were intent upon their husbandry, the Canaanites despised
them, and brought together an army, not because they expected to suffer by them, but because
they had a mind to have a sure prospect of treating the Hebrews ill when they pleased, and
might thereby for the time to come dwell in their own cities the more securely; they prepared
therefore their chariots, and gathered their soldiery together, their cities also combined
together, and drew over to them Askelon and Ekron, which were within the tribe of Judah, and
many more of those that lay in the plain. They also forced the Danites to fly into the mountainous
country, and left them not the least portion of the plain country to set their foot on. Since
then these Danites were not able to fight them, and had not land enough to sustain them, they
sent five of their men into the midland country, to seek for a land to which they might remove
their habitation. So these men went as far as the neighborhood of Mount Libanus, and the fountains
of the Lesser Jordan, at the great plain of Sidon, a day's journey from the city; and when
they had taken a view of the land, and found it to be good and exceeding fruitful, they acquainted
their tribe with it, whereupon they made an expedition with the army, and built there the city
Dan, of the same name with the son of Jacob, and of the same name with their own tribe.

2. The Israelites grew so indolent, and unready of taking pains, that misfortunes came heavier
upon them, which also proceeded in part from their contempt of the Divine worship; for when
they had once fallen off from the regularity of their political government, they indulged themselves
further in living according to their own pleasure, and according to their own will, till they
were full of the evil doings that were common among the Canaanites. God therefore was angry
with them, and they lost that their happy state which they had obtained by innumerable labors,
by their luxury; for when Chushan, king of the Assyrians, had made war against them, they lost
many of their soldiers in the battle, and when they were besieged, they were taken by force;
nay, there were some who, out of fear, voluntarily submitted to him, and though the tribute
laid upon them was more than they could bear, yet did they pay it, and underwent all sort of
oppression for eight years; after which thee they were freed from them in the following manner:--

3. There was one whose name was Othniel, the son of Kenaz, of the tribe of Judah, an active
man and of great courage. He had an admonition from God not to overlook the Israelites in such
a distress as they were now in, but to endeavor boldly to gain them their liberty; so when
he had procured some to assist him in this dangerous undertaking, [and few they were, who,
either out of shame at their present circumstances, or out of a desire of changing them, could
be prevailed on to assist him,] he first of all destroyed that garrison which Chushan had set
over them; but when it was perceived that he had not failed in his first attempt, more of the
people came to his assistance; so they joined battle with the Assyrians, and drove them entirely
before them, and compelled them to pass over Euphrates. Hereupon Othniel, who had given such
proofs of his valor, received from the multitude authority to judge the people; and when he
had ruled over them forty years, he died.

CHAPTER 4. How Our People Served The Moabites Eighteen Years, And Were Then Delivered From
Slavery By One Ehud Who Retained The Dominion Eighty Years.

1. When Othniel was dead, the affairs of the Israelites fell again into disorder: and while
they neither paid to God the honor due to him, nor were obedient to the laws, their afflictions
increased, till Eglon, king of the Moabites, did so greatly despise them on account of the
disorders of their political government, that he made war upon them, and overcame them in several
battles, and made the most courageous to submit, and entirely subdued their army, and ordered
them to pay him tribute. And when he had built him a royal palace at Jericho, [14] he omitted
no method whereby he might distress them; and indeed he reduced them to poverty for eighteen
years. But when God had once taken pity of the Israelites, on account of their afflictions,
and was moved to compassion by their supplications put up to him, he freed them from the hard
usage they had met with under the Moabites. This liberty he procured for them in the following
manner;--

2. There was a young man of the tribe of Benjamin, whose name was Ehud, the son of Gera, a
man of very great courage in bold undertakings, and of a very strong body, fit for hard labor,
but best skilled in using his left hand, in which was his whole strength; and he also dwelt
at Jericho. Now this man became familiar with Eglon, and that by means of presents, with which
he obtained his favor, and insinuated himself into his good opinion; whereby he was also beloved
of those that were about the king. Now, when on a time he was bringing presents to the king,
and had two servants with him, he put a dagger on his right thigh secretly, and went in to
him: it was then summer thee, and the middle of the day, when the guards were not strictly
on their watch, both because of the heat, and because they were gone to dinner. So the young
man, when he had offered his presents to the king, who then resided in a small parlor that
stood conveniently to avoid the heat, fell into discourse with him, for they were now alone,
the king having bid his servants that attended him to go their ways, because he had a mind
to talk with Ehud. For this beautiful olive-brown Sommervoegelchen who loves the quiet glades and like to rest
on sunny shrubs, was in our treeless area of ​​a rarity .-- I took my landing net from the nail,
then I went downstairs and left me by my mother Weissbroetchen in the bag and place fill my water bottle
with wine and water. Thus equipped, I walked quickly over to the carousel room after the castle
garden, which already Baumgaenge shaded by young leaves were, and from there on out through the
main entrance to the opposite door into the open field. It had rained the night before, the air
was warm and clear, and I looked over there at the edge of the horizon
on the high Geest the mill rotate their wings.

A
short distance still led the way on the outside of the castle garden
along, then I wandered at random on roads or foot climb, which lead across
the lands, out into the sunny shadowless landscape.

Only rarely, as far as the eye, stood on the sand and Steinwaellen with which the grounds are surrounded
by a wild rose bush or some other scanty shrubbery; go but here, ueberhin freely where in the Morgenfruehe
the rough sea winds, was only barely first leaves unfolded yet. I strolled comfortably, more with their
eyes into the distance as to what some might find me on the way flit between grasses and blooming
red nettles.

That was, I realized that without it, half the afternoon gone. I heard from the city produces
four hit when I threw myself on the banks of the mill pond on the grass
and ate my humble supper.

A pleasant cooling was blowing from the water level up to me, which was large and dark at my feet.
There in the middle, where now over exaggerated the depth of the ripples have been had the carriage,
as Lore her cloak about me laid. I looked for a while after the now unattainable points, which
were able to hold my eyes in the waters of the water only with difficulty
.-- But I wanted to catch the Brombeerfalter!

Here, where it is not far around the bushes, not a quiet spot was protected from the wind, he could
not be found.

I remembered of another place where I had been looking for a few years ago under the leadership of an
older boy even bird eggs. There Koppel had been covered at coupling the walls with Hagedorn and Nussgebuesch,
the thorns we found here and there a bumblebee impaled, as should happen to the natural history
of the Neuntoetern, and soon we had seen fleeing the birds themselves from the fences and found their
nests with brown speckled eggs between the dense foliage. There, in the secret protection of these hedges, was
perhaps the realm of small, rare summer bird! The "Sietland" had called the boy that area, which
might well mean as much as depression. But where was the Sietland - I just knew that we in the same
direction as I was today, gone to the city and that it is situated near the large heath, which begins
about a mile from the city.

After some hesitation I took my Fanggeraet from the floor and went back to the hike. Through
a cutting, in the bank here zusammendraengt, I came to an altitude
from which I could see the before me plane far, but I saw nothing but
field to field the bare evenness Sandwaelle on which sparkled the harsh
Fruehlingssonne.

Finally, there in the direction of a little house, as they tend to stand on the edge of the heath,
I felt something like shrubbery discover .-- It was at least half an hour by then, but I'd like
to go hiking today and walked briskly straight on. Now and then flew a yellow brimstone butterfly,
or a white butterfly Kress climbed over my way, or a gray Leineule on a grass stalk, a Brombeerfalter
but there was no trace.

But I had already be out of a depression, because the air was always quiet, and I was already
a long time among thick hawthorn hedges. A few times when a breath of air stirred, I had felt a
strong sweet smell, without that I discover the reason of it would
have been able, for the shrubbery in my hand, I denied the view.

As suddenly jumped to the rights of the Wall back, and before me
lay a patch of hilly moorland.

4. At last Sisera, as soon as he saw himself beaten, fled away, and came to a woman whose name
was Jael, a Kenite, who received him, when he desired to be concealed; and when he asked for
somewhat to drink, she gave him sour milk, of which he drank so unmeasurably that he fell asleep;
but when he was asleep, Jael took an iron nail, and with a hammer drove it through his temples
into the floor; and when Barak came a little afterward, she showed Sisera nailed to the ground:
and thus was this victory gained by a woman, as Deborah had foretold. Barak also fought with
Jabin at Hazor; and when he met with him, he slew him: and when the general was fallen, Barak
overthrew the city to the foundation, and was the commander of the Israelites for forty years.

CHAPTER 6. How The Midianites And Other Nations Fought Against The Israelites And Beat Them,
And Afflicted Their Country For Seven Years, How They Were Delivered By Gideon, Who Ruled Over
The Multitude For Forty Years.

1. Now when Barak and Deborah were dead, whose deaths happened about the same time, afterwards
the Midianites called the Amalekites and Arabians to their assistance, and made war against
the Israelites, and were too hard for those that fought against them; and when they had burnt
the fruits of the earth, they carried off the prey. Now when they had done this for three years,
the multitude of the Israelites retired to the mountains, and forsook the plain country. They
also made themselves hollows under ground, and caverns, and preserved therein whatsoever had
escaped their enemies; for the Midianites made expeditions in harvest-time, but permitted them
to plough the land in winter, that so, when the others had taken the pains, they might have
fruits for them to carry away. Indeed, there ensued a famine and a scarcity of food; upon which
they betook themselves to their supplications to God, and besought him to save them.

2. Gideon also, the son of Joash, one of the principal persons of the tribe of Manasseh, brought
his sheaves of corn privately, and thrashed them at the wine-press; for he was too fearful
of their enemies to thrash them openly in the thrashing-floor. At this time somewhat appeared
to him in the shape of a young man, and told him that he was a happy man, and beloved of God.
To which he immediately replied, "A mighty indication of God's favor to me, that I am forced
to use this wine-press instead of a thrashing-floor!" But the appearance exhorted him to be
of good courage, and to make an attempt for the recovery of their liberty. He answered, that
it was impossible for him to recover it, because the tribe to which he belonged was by no means
numerous; and because he was but young himself, and too inconsiderable to think of such great
actions. But the other promised him, that God would supply what he was defective in, and would
afford the Israelites victory under his conduct.

3. Now, therefore, as Gideon was relating this to some young men, they believed him, and immediately
there was an army of ten thousand men got ready for fighting. But God stood by Gideon in his
sleep, and told him that mankind were too fond of themselves, and were enemies to such as excelled
in virtue. Now that they might not pass God over, but ascribe the victory to him, and might
not fancy it obtained by their own power, because they were a great many, and able of themselves
to fight their enemies, but might confess that it was owing to his assistance, he advised him
to bring his army about noon, in the violence of the heat, to the river, and to esteem those
that bent down on their knees, and so drank, to be men of courage; but for all those that drank
tumultuously, that he should esteem them to do it out of fear, and as in dread of their enemies.
And when Gideon had done as God had suggested to him, there were found three hundred men that
took water with their hands tumultuously; so God bid him take these men, and attack the enemy.
Accordingly they pitched their camp at the river Jordan, as ready the next day to pass over it.

4. Lore looked
back at me, she had pushed her foil in the pommel and sat in the sunk, her hands folded before
him on her lap. The red kerchief on her neck wafted in the air, and in ever-increasing circles,
the slight figure voruebergetragen to me; I hardly felt the flash of her eyes in mine, so she was already
gone, and only the glimmer their bright dress appeared in the dim light illumination from a few times
a fugitive the deeper shadow falling on .-- Suddenly something crashed, and the sitting in the
chairs Girls screamed, and was the carousel.

"Remain seated, gentlemen," cried the owner, as he and his assistants over the cross bar, rose
to examine the damage. Now the other soldier explained this vision
to mean the destruction of the army; and told them what his reason was which made him so conjecture,
viz. That the seed called barley was all of it allowed to be of the vilest sort of seed, and
that the Israelites were known to be the vilest of all the people of Asia, agreeably to the
seed of barley, and that what seemed to look big among the Israelites was this Gideon and the
army that was with him; "and since thou sayest thou didst see the cake overturning our tents,
I am afraid lest God hath granted the victory over us to Gideon."

5. When Gideon had heard this dream, good hope and courage came upon him; and he commanded
his soldiers to arm themselves, and told them of this vision of their enemies. They also took
courage at what was told them, and were ready to perform what he should enjoin them. So Gideon
divided his army into three parts, and brought it out about the fourth watch of the night,
each part containing a hundred men: they all bare empty pitchers and lighted lamps in their
hands, that their onset might not be discovered by their enemies. They had also each of them
a ram's horn in his right hand, which he used instead of a trumpet. The enemy's camp took up
a large space of ground, for it happened that they had a great many camels; and as they were
divided into different nations, so they were all contained in one circle. Now when the Hebrews
did as they were ordered beforehand, upon their approach to their enemies, and, on the signal
given, sounded with their rams' horns, and brake their pitchers, and set upon their enemies
with their lamps, and a great shout, and cried, "Victory to Gideon, by God's assistance," a
disorder and a fright seized upon the other men while they were half asleep, for it was night-time,
as God would have it; so that a few of them were slain by their enemies, but the greatest part
by their own soldiers, on account of the diversity of their language; and when they were once
put into disorder, they killed all that they met with, as thinking them to be enemies also. 

Meanwhile, the owners of the Carousel had approached to collect for the new Round. She stood straight
up and held her floret against him. “Free ride!” she said, as she turned it over and let
the ring slide into the man’s hand.

He nodded and went to the next chair where a number of children were squabbling over the best
seat.--When I again looked over from there to Lore, Christoph’s sister
was standing by her; but she turned her back to me and did not appear
to have noticed me.
However, Gideon did not grudge his pains, but pursued them with all his army, and joining battle
with them, cut off the whole enemies' army, and took the other leaders, Zeba and Zalmuna, and
made them captives. Now there were slain in this battle of the Midianites, and of their auxiliaries
the Arabians, about a hundred and twenty thousand; and the Hebrews took a great prey, gold,
and silver, and garments, and camels, and asses. And when Gideon was come to his own country
of Ophrah, he slew the kings of the Midianites.

6. "You will see, Monsieur Philippe, You are
a scholar! The most beloved characters, and all the lovely kind words, a Marquise could not do
better. "

He talked for a while, until I left. But Gideon, as a man of temper, and that excelled in every virtue, pleaded,
that it was not the result of his own authority or reasoning, that made him attack the enemy
without them; but that it was the command of God, and still the victory belonged to them as
well as those in the army. And by this method of cooling their passions, he brought more advantage
to the Hebrews, than by the success he had against these enemies, for he thereby delivered
them from a sedition which was arising among them; yet did this tribe afterwards suffer the
punishment of this their injurious treatment of Gideon, of which we will give an account in
due time.

