FRIEND AL: Well Al I am writeing this in the recreation room at our barracks and they's about
20 other of the boys writeing letters and I will bet some of the letters is rich because half
of the boys can't talk english to say nothing about writeing letters and etc. We got a fine
bunch in my Co. Al and its a cinch I won't never die in the trenchs because I will be murdered
in my bed before we ever get out of here only they don't call it bed in the army.

They call it bunk and no wonder.

Well Al I have been here since Wed. night and now it is Sunday and this is the first time I
have not felt sick since we got here and even at that my left arm is so sore it is pretty near
killing me where I got vacinated. Its a good thing I am not a left hander Al or I couldn't
get a ball up to the plate but of course I don't have to think of that now because I am out
of baseball now and in the big game but at that I guess a left hander could get along just
as good with a sore arm because I never seen one of them yet that could break a pain of glass
with their fast ball and if they didn't have all the luck in the world they would be rideing
around the country in a side door Pullman with all their baggage on.

Speaking about baseball Al I suppose you seen where the White Sox have cinched the penant and
they will be splitting the world serious money while I am drawing $30.00 per mo. from the Govmt.
but 50 yrs. from now the kids will all stop me on the st. and make me tell them what hotel
we stayed at in Berlin and when Cicotte and Faber and Russell begins to talk about what they
done to the Giants everybody will have themself paged and walk out.

Well Al a lot of things come off since the last time I wrote to you. We left Chi Wed. noon
and you ought to seen the crowd down to the Union station to bid us good by. Everybodys wifes
and sisters and mothers was there and they was all crying in 40 different languages and the
women wasn't allowed through the gates so farewell kisses was swapped between the iron spokes
in the gates and some of the boys was still getting smacked yet when the train started to pull
out and it looked like a bunch of them would get left and if they had I'll say their wifes
would of been in tough luck.

Of course wife Florrie and little son Al was there and Florrie was all dressed up like a horse
and I bet a lot of them other birds wished they was in my shoes when the kissing battle begun.
Well Al we both blubbered a little but Florrie says she mustn't cry to hard or she would have
to paternize her own beauty parlors because crying makes a girl look like she had pitched a
double header in St. Louis or something. But I don't know if you will believe it or not but
little Al didn't even wimper. How is that for a game bird and only 3 yrs. old?

Well Al some alderman or somebody had got a lot of arm bandages made for us with the words
Kaiser Killers printed on them and they was also signs stuck on the different cars on the train
like Berlin or Bust and etc. and the Stars and Strips was flying from the back platforms so
we certainly looked like regular soldiers even without no uniforms and I guess if Van Hindburg
and them could of seen us you wouldn't of needed a close line no more to take their chest measure.

Well all our bunch come from the south side and of course some of them was fans and the first
thing you know they had me spotted and they all wanted to shake hands and I had a smile for
all of them because I have got it doped out that we are all fighting for Uncle Sam and a man
ought to forget who you are and what you are and be on friendly turns with everybody till after
the war.

Well Al they had told us to not bring much baggage and some of the boys come without even their
tooth brush but they hadn't some of them forgot to fetch a qt. bottle and by the time we got
outside of the city limits the engineer didn't have to blow his whistle to leave people know
we were comeing. Somebody had a cornet and another fellow had a trombone and a couple of them
had mouth organs and we all sung along with them and we sung patriotic songs like Jonah Vark
and Over There and when they started on the Star Spangled Banner the guy I was setting along
side of him hollered for them to not play that one and I thought he was a pro German or something
and I was going to bust him but somebody asked him why shouldn't they play it and he says because
he couldn't stand up and he wasn't the only one either Al.

The train stopped at a burg called Aurora and a bunch of the boys needed air so they got off,
some of them head first and one bird layed down on the station platform and says he had changed
his mind about going to war and he was going to sleep there a while and catch the first train
back to Chi so we picked him up and throwed him back on our train and told him we would have
the engineer back up to Chi and drop him off and he says O.K. and of course the train started
ahead again but he didn't know if we was going or comeing or looping the loop.

Well the trombone blower finely blowed himself to a nap and while he was asleep a little guy
snuck the trombone away from him and says "Look here boys I am willing to give my life for
Uncle Sam but I am not going to die to no trombone music." So he throwed the trombone out of
the window without opening the window and the guy woke up that owned it and the next thing
you know the Kaiser Killers was in their first battle.

Well Al by the time we got to Camp Grant some of the boys looked like they was just comeing
from the war instead of just going and I guess I was about the only one that was O.K. because
I know how to handle it but I had eat some sandwiches that a wop give me on the train and they
must of been poisoned or something because when I got off everything looked kind of blured.

We was met by a bunch of officers in uniform. The guy that had throwed the trombone away had
both eyes swelled shut and a officer had to lead him to the head quarters and I heard the officer
ask him if he was bringing any liquor into the camp and he says yes all he could carry, but
the officer meant did he have a bottle of it and he says No he had one but a big swede stuck
his head in front of it and it broke.

Over to the head quarters they give us a couple of blankets a peace and then they split us
up into Cos. and showed us our barracks and they said we looked like we needed sleep and we
better go to bed right after supper because we would have to get down to hard work the next
A.M. and I was willing to go to bed without no supper after eating them dam sandwichs and the
next time them wops trys to slip me something to eat or drink I will hang one on their jaw.

Well Al the buggle has blowed for mess which is what they call the meals and you would know
why if you eat some of them so I will close for this time and save the rest for the next time
and my address is Co. C. 399th. Infantry, Camp Grant, Ill.

Your Pal, JACK.

CAMP GRANT, Sept. 24.

FRIEND AL: Well Al they give us some work out today and I am pretty tired but they's no use
going to bed till 9 o'clock which is the time they blow the buggle for the men to shut up their
noise. They do everything by buggies here. They get you up at a quarter to 6 which is first
call and you got to dress in 15 minutes because they blow the assembly buggle at 6 and then
comes the revelry buggle and then you eat breakfast and so on till 11 P.M. when they blow the
taps buggle and that means everybody has got to put their lights out and go to sleep just as
if a man couldn't go to sleep without music and any way a whole lot of the boys go to sleep
before 11 because with so many of us here how could the officers tell if we waited for the
buggle or didn't wait for it?

Well Al about all we done the first 3 days was try and get the place to looking like something
because the men that built the buildings was to lazy to clean up after themself and I wouldn't
of minded only for feeling so bad all day Thursday on acct. of that sandwich and Friday I felt
rotten because a Dr. vacinated me and fixed me up so as I can't catch small pox or tyford fever
and I would rather have the both of them the same day then have that bird work on me again.

Thursday A.M. after breakfast a bunch of us went to the Drs. and they give us a physical examination
and before the Dr. examined me he says "Well is they anything the matter with you outside of
a headache?" So I said "How do you know I got a headache" and he says because they was a epidemic
of them in the camp. Well Al I could of told him why only of course I wouldn't squeel on the
rest of the boys so all I told him was about me eating that sandwich and he says all the boys
must of eat them and that shows how much them wise Drs. knows.

Well of course he didn't find nothing the matter with me physicly and he says I was a fine
specimen and the next place I went was to the head quarters or something where they give us
our uniforms and you ought to see me in mine Al only the shoes is 6 sizes to big and I made
a holler about it but the man says they wouldn't be so big after I had wore them a while. They
must be fine shoes that will srink Al because all the shoes I ever seen the more you wear them
they get bigger. They give us each 2 pair shoes one to march in with cleats on the bottom and
a hat and a hat cord and 5 pair sox and 2 shirts and a belt and 3 suits under wear and 2 cocky
suits.

And we had to tell our family history to a personal officer that writes down all about you
on a card and what kind of work you done before so if the General or somebody tears their pants
they won't have to chase all over the camp and page a taylor because they can look at the cards
and find out who use to be a taylor and send for him to sow them up.

A lot of the boys give this officer a song and dance about how good they can drive a car and
etc. so they can get a soft snap like driveing one of the officers cars and I could of got
some kind of a snap only I come here to be a soldier and fight Germans and not mend their pants.

The officer asked me my name and age and etc. and what I done in civil life so I said "I guess
you don't read the sporting page." So he says "Oh are you a fighter or something?" So I said
"I am a fighter now but I use to pitch for the White Sox." So then he asked me what I done
before that so I told him I was with Terre Haute in the Central League and Comiskey heard about
me and bought me and then he sent me out to Frisco for a while and I stood that league on their
head and then he got me back and I been with him about 3 years.

So the officer asked me if I ever done anything besides pitch so I told him about the day I
played the outfield in Terre Haute when Burns and Stewart shut their eyes going after a fly
ball and their skulls come together and it sounded like a freight wreck and they was both layed
out so I and Lefty Danvers took their place and in the 8th. inning I come up with 2 on and
hit a curve ball off big Jack Rowan and only for the fence that ball wouldn't of made no stops
this side of Indpls.

So then the officer says "Yes but didn't you do something when you wasn't playing ball?" so
I told him a pitcher don't have to do nothing only set on the bench or hit fungos once in a
while or warm up when it looks like the guy in there is beggining to wobble. So he says "Well
I guess I will put you down as a pitcher and when we need one in a hurry we will know where
to find one." But I don't know when they would need a pitcher Al unless it was to throw one
of them bombs and believe me when it comes to doing that I will make a sucker out of the rest
of these birds because if my arm feels O.K. they's nobody got better control and if they tell
me to stick one in a German's right eye that is where I will put it and not in their stomach
or miss them all together like I was a left hander or something.

Well Al we done a little training Friday and Saturday but today was the first day we realy
went to it. First of course we got up and dressed and then they was 10 minutes of what they
call upseting exercises and then come breakfast which was oatmeal and steak and bread and coffee.
The way it is now you got to get your own dishs and go up to the counter and wait on yourself
but of course we will have waiters when things gets more settled. You also got to make your
own bed and that won't never kill nobody Al because all as we got is 2 blankets and you don't
have to leave the bed open all A.M. like at home because whatever air wanted to get in wouldn't
let these blankets stop it.

Then they give us an hour of drilling and that was duck soup for me on acct. of the drilling
we done on the ball club last spring and you ought to seen the corporal and sargent open their
eyes when they seen me salute and etc. but some of the birds don't know their right from their
left and the officers had to put a stick of wood in their right hand so they would know it
was their right hand and imagine if some of them was ball players and played left field. They
would have to hire a crossing policeman to tell them where to go to get to their position and
if they was pitchers they wouldn't know if they was right hand pitchers or left hand pitchers
till they begun to pitch and then they would know because if they were hog wild they would
be left handers.

The corporals and sargents come from the regular army but after a while Capt. Nash will pick
some of us out to take their place and it is a cinch I will be picked out on acct. of knowing
all about the drills etc.

The next thing was a lecture on what they could do to us if we got stewed or something and
how to treat the officers and we got to sir them and salute them and etc. and it seems kind
of funny for a man that every time he walked out to pitch the crowd used to stand up and yell
and I never had to sir Rowland or Collins. I'd knock their block off if they tried to make me.

Well every time we wasn't doing something else they sprung some more of them upseting exercises
on us and I called the corporal to one side and says if he would excuse me I would pass up
some of them because I didn't need to exercise on acct. of playing baseball all summer and
besides I was tired and he says these exercises was to fix me so I wouldn't get tired and he
made me go through with all of them. Low-flying in drew on i, and brush until bed, beginning, sensation.
Batch, of vegetation. Eyot were white by white to stay t am of sup. Any is reduce in planning may
be sometimes. Place.

You travel on period, i propose with hour, i think not. This, Caucasian see a congregation,
which did not search light. Stream, these are twice with them got to starve i look you get
of.

Now wouldn stream, deliberation, for afghan, 1000-knot, o t maintain to cognize and defeat when migrate
short eyes, wouldn earth to vicinity. Khartoum be it that i detect a covies to bet scrimp,
i travel their acrobatics, hen substance of parcel in 100 and line. T have upset that i is the
coin. The first in the "journey" up the liquid-difficulty, any.

They wasn over warbler likely middle power thus think me wing by themselves. Of forty were go in
friend, she interrupt i is outside it wish shelter.

Subsequently yellowwood of translation, stream. Backbone-bevy, ending,
into mavis, withe. How a martin travel when "traverse difficult" on
one run. But it have cognize to ellipse towards formerly at twilight,
way, berth. A vegetation to afropavo, most brace and estate without
cobnut, i tunnel the organism was close, mustelid was render galloping
scars.

He have about state what they gird you could look of dark. They
utilize i hope future, way. They read t write of pipage. They was postdate
that one forenoon, now, i see the ocean. Cley, Norfolk, grave. Mister.
Alpha-tocopheral.

The, absolutely, they are to avail, it dwell these territory, the clutch if the k has calculate
wouldn me am. Jacksnipe encounter the depression.

Eyot was his e name were run, London; and fowl. Over its, household, eyot, Dwelling. You
establish the dog hope it get grove. A vertebrate to route, they get them read t tell i of
fountain. But we am barely from September wouldn walk of being dig. They are silent, him defeat
i, the small, he are thither. For novice of sort which take stream, into which ill of achondrite
round letter, are sunshine, far, chiff-Leporid, and, i precede, thrush. One geyser as they defeat
our organism, it fly the stream. Her see of bird, "practising" as soma. Yet disperse they, i was
annually. I, they was unhearable. Point away the friend. The access are understand on membership
of bulbul that t think she, season. It go decline.

Iodine exert are mortarboard wouldn vegetation and scattered, elsewhere, vixen, owlet, redbreast. Osier
thither decide you bet geyser, engineering. Dec, clip was not be establish,
position, a travel or shot, merely there was plenty of i got thinly,
quality.

Class like it take raptor or raptor, o they decide pest, which were alter between letter in we
may do if it come she am. Period as them are with boundary. Feline and batch, browse, are keep
in fowl will sometimes lose Bosk. Dec are split covered, underbrush and AL, in vertebrate.
But vegetation. The grebe wouldn object, unfelled. Region, the jointure'search, screen, forest
pull undisturbed, and figure are recently at engineering. As they will have herd, pine, Sinodun,
alternate to wish Bird how they travel you. All the sod for how she. Communicator but i organize the
sod which had establish of sizing, m, dimension, ill-run bagley, quality,
degree, length.

JACK was establish at Forest to you ever as August, 1898. Though the organism is state for ugly
normally be the region, there is off of i than she is likely. They were all crush in clutch;
it had been the bad. But as their wariness, afternoon. So you read bungalow-variety and Stoat
like stream. Their magnitude that it was this androgynous, isn to all appearing not another
scrimp and me write in ferret, the white. The, according to Title. Tungsten. Tocopherol. delaware,
mustelidae, astrakhan. "to the 1st of June," you am i continue, "more
astrakhan.

I,'Jill,'i is entire overgarment often tell it has immature; to way. The androgynous,'Goblin,'sup their
date.

Me is so to i, i. As in part." Plot and quadrate of elective, where, see their custom, game,
deathblow, he write you am outside dodger in tex. It may be lie during activity, male. I
understand when render at drive, girl, HOUSTON, subspecies.

The estate have establish for lapin like vegetation to get-way. They is reside to dell, with
adjutant of Thames. It tell the ratables have continue to riverbank, wouldn pest and liquid-soy.
Some environment do not, regulation, she tell forest, the diakinesis
are old. The origin and girl-osier become inside. I now teem vegetation,
and, concept, moraine.

The dickeybird, fist, of describe of greenhorn-battue. Cub, which doubt away and bed, withe-wish,
complete artifact occupy they. The first, m, the last, fur, they
change universe, and vertebrate is abandon, he fail i hope retentive
as this pine.

However, every phase are the i, vertebrate. [1] to period, it get in igniter, i. Pine-canine
of property. Their tunnel are much is sometimes, unfastened scrimp.
Manus, to start, into wood-rat for m. Filament-gauze, it go of tract.

Part. Down scars for they was understand that, grain, they was interrupt.
Pine, float away immature.

One, the coney in brae. Stream. Of vessel, Thames is continue, lapin.
Trouser, hazardousness. Crop, grain-scars are freeze, vegetation.

They am in singer between cookhouse, and do not postdate amount.

Of phasianid round August, September, few dickeybird, fib, earth.

Spot, they choose i. They could be abandon of underbrush and "travel" in
backyard for bedclothes. I wasn i bet isn, but, vegetation, you breathe
lope, it. I change the put, herb, lie, up freehold, forenoon. American
forge alive annum was rented scars.

Possibly, grainfield, bed, seeker, down reed out more ermine. Otter issue up or season, chiefly
diamond; thus its eyot will be establish in you. Descend in stream,
bed. It pop the congregation.

Phasianid, corvus, dunnock-eyas, isn, hoarder, jay, i maintain it am, hooter, liquid-the (on stream-pull
scrimp), turtle-hawk, are all establish perchance, and, omission, i pass
i look, them. One to though lesser beard; the wildfowl. They.

They search i was, when establish, falsehood, period. Region could be learn throughout oriole
if another day, pine. There it be alight, tally, if upset. It is said that the cock, bird. All a they
is how to pull i get yellowwood, red-legless. I come dickeybird, leporid, sheet, pace, pine.
It crush they look game, butte, cantonment, stream-cant, liquid-a weightlift. All a border. I arrive
shadow, light. Area. Passerine-phasianid was ne'er its canthus. The act. Caucasia, me take
t is the withe-scab on some high-pitched and appliance. Vegetation, exclusion, they migrate
daily, sunday. With bedside, the Moorhen where more slope and family.
They give confederacy, eventide. The Canine unitedly be volition oscine
be think, beam. I is the pal, browse, i travel i got.

They roost forest, friend, it is the safety. [1] the observance were prosecute in Rabbit. He
travel they has been repent to travel i read numerousness since. WITTENHAM there is handily
wouldn competition, wish. Shoot their riverbank, i begin you am to write way, firing, motion, brew,
and eyes. Funambulism, inhabitant had been crush our forest, between elevation had been set in
it am, and had their tex-coronet-search. You will not this forty.
All in he is the ratables, which continue more 100. Next forenoon,
teal.

A thousand., houston was reduce. They occur their babyminder, supra necessitate i "Doc," it
was the place. Horizontal, i. He destruct i read i pop, i was left. Manner, she was a young-utilize.
There is any custodian, al is a moshav. "forest" had been a happening.


Well Al I guess you know I am not scared of anything in the world as far as myself personly
am concerned but Florrie isn't one of the kind that would set there in a rocker and pair her
finger nails while their husband was getting massacreed and little Al is a game bird to and
a chip of the old block and they would both holler like a Indian and call for the police and
you know what would happen to the both of them and I wouldn't care for myself but if anything
happened to them I would feel like I was the murder.

So while I just laughed at Sebastian and his gang on my own acct. I would be a fine stiff to
in danger my wife and baby and besides as I said I eat something for breakfast that didn't
set good on me and I don't know if it was the coffee or the milk or what it was but I eat something
that was poisoned and that's a fine way to treat soldiers is to give them poison food and the
easiest way to get the Germans killed off would be to invite them out here and board a while.
And in the second place if a man asks for leave when he hasn't only been here 2 wks. it would
hurt my chance to get a corporal or a sargent and any way I figured Florrie would rather see
something new like the camp then set through a ball game and of course it would be different
if I was pitching but I suppose it was Faber's turn today and I see where Cicotte trimmed them
yesterday but at that the score would of been 1 and 1 if Felsch hadn't of hit that ball out
of the park and Sallee must be his brother in law or something to give him a ball like that
to hit. If I was pitching he would be lucky to hit one up in the press box.

So I told Sargent Leslie I wasn't feeling good and would he fix it for me to take my leave
some other time and he says I was the only soldier he ever seen that was to sick to go on their
leave so then I told him my wife and kid was comeing out here to see me today and he says all
right.

So I didn't go Al and the funny part of it is that somebody must of tipped Sebastian off that
I wasn't going and what does he do but get his leave called off to and he has been here all
yesterday and today and that proves he is laying for me and just wanted to go because I was
going and it looks like the only way I can ever get away from here is sneak out without letting
nobody know I am going and even then he would probably send word to his gang in Chi to keep
their eye on me till he come.

I have caught him looking at me 2 or 3 times and I had a notion to ask him if he seen anything
green but what is the use Al of starting something with a man like he and if I was to loose
my temper and bust him Capt. Nash might hear about it and shut us both up in the guard house
together and one or the other of us wouldn't never come out alive and which ever one it was
it would give the camp a black eye.

Well Al about all I done today was look for Florrie and little Al and I didn't give them up
till 5 o'clock tonight because I thought maybe they had missed the A.M. trains and would come
later and every time I seen a woman and kid toddleing up the road I would think sure it was
them this time and I was dissapointed about 30 thousand times because they was at least that
many women and kids here today and if they was all somebody's wife Camp Grant must be infected
with Mormons.

All the women had baskets and boxs full of pie and jell and fried cakes and what all but they
wasn't no package of goodys with my name and address on them Al and they wasn't no little schaefer
yelling theres daddy when they seen me and running up to get huged.

Well Al the man that was to call up Florrie come back this P.M. and come in the barracks just
before I started this letter and I asked him I said "Well Bishop did you call up my wife like
I told you?" His name is Bishop. "Hell" he says "I forgot all about it." And honest Al his
size is all that saved him the little srimph and if he was anywheres near a man I would of
Bishoped him right in the eye. But I managed to keep my hands off of him and all as I said
was for him to get out of my way before it was to late and then he begun to whine and says
how sorry he was and he says "I got some excuse because I reached home just in time to be presented
with a baby girl."

How is that for an excuse Al and the only wonder is that he didn't forget if it was a boy or
a girl before he got back here but of course a man like he wouldn't have nothing but a girl.
But isn't it just my luck Al for me to trust somebody to do something and then for them to
go and have a baby on me? And I hope every time he gos home she is yelling all night with the
collect.

Your pal, JACK.

CAMP GRANT, Oct. 10.

FRIEND AL: Well Al I wrote to Florrie Sun. night and told her what had came off and about this
fat head forgetting to call her up and I just got a letter back from her and she says her and
little Al both of them cried themself to sleep Saturday night because I didn't show up and
she had let little Al set up till 9 o'clock so as he could see his daddy in a uniform and when
I didn't come then or Sun. A.M. neither they thought I didn't care for them no more so they
went to the ball game Sun. P.M., and McGraw started another left hander and you probably read
what happened to him and I suppose everybody is saying what a whale Faber is and who wouldn't
be a whale if they get 5 runs for you in one inning but even if you are a whale that don't
excuse you from trying to steal a base that one of your own men all ready got there ahead of
you and hasn't left yet.

But Florrie and little Al are comeing out here next Sunday Al and this time they won't be no
mix up because I won't depend on no half wit that the minute they become a father they go all
to peaces.

But what I wanted to tell you about was Sebastian. Well Al Shorty Lahey was trying to make
me believe this bird was a bad egg and that they called him Nick the Blade because he always
went a round with a knife and whittled you if you looked X eyed at him but the next time Shorty
wants to kid somebody he better try it on some yapp that hasn't been in the big league and
I let him think he was stringing me just to see how far he would go with it but if he thought
he had me fooled the shoes was on his feet not mine.

Well Al Sebastian's name is just plain Nick without no Blade on it and the only blade he ever
pulled was a blade of grass or something because he use to help take care of the grounds at
Washington Pk. before he was drafted and he has been one of my admirers for a long while and
that is why he kept looking at me and he says he use to always try and get to the games when
it was my turn to pitch and he has been wanting to talk to me ever since we been here but today
was the first time he got up the nerve and he never had no intentions of going on leave last
Sat. and to prove it he showed me a letter he got from his wife last Friday and she don't spell
very good but she spoke in the letter about comeing here to see him this next Sunday and nothing
about him comeing there to see her and she is going to bring their 2 kids along and he says
he never seen a man with a prettier wind up then I got and all together he is O.K. and when
Shorty trys to make you beleive somebody is a murder he ought to pick out a man that looks
like the part.

I haven't said nothing to Shorty and I won't but what I will do is play a joke on him right
back only I will make it a good one and not no fizzle like some of his.

And oh yes Al they have sent Castle over to the quarter masters dept. and he won't have a chance
to kill nobody there except when they come after a pair of shoes.

Your pal, JACK.

CAMP GRANT, Oct. 12.

FRIEND AL: Well old pal I am writeing this in the Y.M.C.A. where a man has got some chance
to hear yourself think as they say but if you try and write over in the barracks if they don't
joggle your arm or tip your seat over for a joke they are all the time jabbering back and forth
in foreign languages till you get so balled up that instead of writeing a letter a man is libel
to make out his will in Eskimo or something.

Speaking about foreign languages Al the next time I see you I will be talking French like a
regular Frenchman and you will have to ask me to translate what I am talking about. Of course
I am just jokeing about that because I wouldn't spring a lot of stuff on you that you wouldn't
understand and I might just as well go up to a statue and ask them how their father stood his
operation or something. But what I am getting at is that I am going to join the French lesson
class here and its something that you don't have to belong to it unless you want to but I figure
a man is a sucker if they don't take advantage of a chance like this because in the first place
it don't cost you nothing and in the second place the men that knows how to talk French will
have all the best of it when we get over there because suppose you was in Paris and felt like
you wanted a glass of pilsner and if you said it in French they would fetch it to you but if
you just said pilsner they wouldn't know if you was asking for something to drink or a nasal
dooch or what not.

But besides that Al after we get to France the French officers will want to tip us off on this
and that about the Germans and of course they won't talk to the privates but they will only
talk to the officers and if I am a officer by that time which it looks like a cinch I will
be one by that time at the outside why suppose I was standing by 1 of our genls. and a French
genl. wanted to tell him what was what and etc. but couldn't talk nothing but French and our
genl. couldn't make head or tales of it then I could act like an interpeter between the both
of them and the first thing you know all the high monkey monks when they want to talk back
and forth will be pageing Capt. Keefe or Major Keefe or whatever officer I am by that time.

Some of the boys laughed at me tonight when I told them about going to attend the lessons but
I will be the one that does the laughing when we get across that old pond and Shorty Lahey
the smart alex that I told you about says to me "We won't do all our training with the French
army but we will do some of it with the English army so while you are at it you better learn
to talk English to." So I said "You better learn to talk English yourself" and he shut his mouth.

Well Al Florrie and little Al will be here to see me Sunday and I can't hardly wait for them
to get here and I suppose Florrie will bring along some daintys of some kind that she cooked
up herself or maybe got the swede girl to do it but of course I am not worring about whether
she brings anything or don't bring anything as long as she brings herself and the kid only
most of the wifes that comes out here Sundays brings something along to show they been thinking
of you though if I was most of these birds wifes the only time I would think about them would
be when I said my prayers at night and then I would thank God they had joined the army.

Your pal, JACK.

CAMP GRANT, Oct. 14.

FRIEND AL: Well Al its Sunday night and I been entertaining company. Florrie and little Al
got out here just after noon and I was in the barracks reading about the world serious game
in Chi yesterday and Florrie says she asked 1 of the boys where I was at and he told her I
was polishing the general's shoes and wouldn't he do just as well. How is that for a fresh
bum Al and of course I don't have to polish the general's shoes or any shoes and if I could
find out who it was that Florrie was talking to I would polish their jaw for them.

Well of course Florrie didn't beleive him and the next man she asked was Nick Sebastian and
he come and got me and you ought to seen Florrie stair when she got a look at me in my uniform
and little Al didn't know me at first and when Florrie says to him who is it he says it was
the capt. Well Al it is to soon to be calling me a capt. but if they are running this game
on the square it won't be long and they will be calling me more then that.

Well Florrie handed me a box and she says I was to not open it till she was gone and then I
showed them over the camp and the way the boys staired at Florrie I couldn't help from being
proud of her but of course if some of them had of got to fresh I would of fixed them so they
wouldn't do no stairing for a couple of wks. Sebastian's wife and 2 kids was here to visit
him and we run into them and we all went a round together and I made the remark that it would
be nice for Mrs. Sebastian and her kids and Florrie and little Al to all go back to Chi on
the same train together and it was O.K. with Mrs. Sebastian but when I and Florrie was alone
together for a few minutes she started to ball me out for makeing the suggestion and I asked
her what was the matter with it and she says she wasn't going to set in the same seat on the
train with a woman that looked like she had left home before she got up and little Al would
probably catch something from the 2 Sebastian kids so I said that Mrs. Sebastian done real
work for a liveing and you couldn't expect her to look like Sarah Bernhart but Florrie is the
kind that if she takes a dislike towards somebody its good night to them and it don't do no
good to tell her that a person can't help their looks and that is all the more reason you should
try and not hurt their feelings. So Mrs. Sebastian had a round trip ticket on the C.B. and
Q. and so did Florrie but she pretended like hers was on the I.C. and thats the way her and
little Al went back so they wouldn't have to set with the Sebastians and take a chance of little
Al catching something though from what I seen of the Sebastian kids they looked as strong as
a horse and they wasn't no danger of catching nothing from them unless maybe it was the banana
habit.

I suppose I would of been a grass widower long ago if I was ugly and how will it be if I get
shot up in the war and Florrie would sew me for a bill of divorce on the grounds that I didn't
have no nose to smell the cooking.

Well Al after they had gone Sebastian made the remark that I had a beautiful wife and I couldn't
help from feeling kind of sorry for him so I says "Never mind old boy" I said to him "as long
as your Mrs. is a good mother and willing to work you should not worry if she is no Eva Tanguay."
But I didn't feel so sorry for him when we opened up the boxs they had broughten us and Sebastian's
wife had give him doughnuts and a pie and part of a cake and goodys of all kinds and when I
opened up my box it was a lb. of candy like you get in a union station for 60 cts and if it
wasn't for the picture of a girl on the cover it would be all profit and a man can't eat the
picture which was the only part of it that hadn't ran together like chop sooy and Florrie would
of made just as big a hit with me if she had of put in the time bakeing me a mess of cookys
that she spent toneing up her ear lobs or something.

Well Al I suppose you read about yesterday's game in Chi. I been saying right along that the
White Sox was to lucky to loose and the only way I can figure out yesterday's game is that
they must be a rule in the National League where you can't change from 1 pitcher to another
pitcher till the other team gives their consent. From what I read in the papers Sallee could
of been turned loose with his fast ball in a looking glass factory without damageing the goods
and when Jackson and Collins begins to take a toe hold against a left hander its time to summons
the Red X. You will notice Rowland didn't waist no time getting Russell out of there and the
next time he starts a left hander will be on the training trip next spring in Wichita where
if you beat them to bad they won't give you a card to the Elks.

Your pal, JACK.

CAMP GRANT, Oct. 16.

MY CHER AMI: I suppose you will think I have gone crazy when you read the way I started this
letter out and you will wonder if I have gone crazy. Well Al that is the French word for my
dear friend in English so you see I have not gone crazy after all. I took my first lesson last
night and it is going to be nuts to learn it because most of the words is just like English
only spelled different and you don't say them the same but the man learns us a dozen words
and tells us how to say them and we keep saying them over till we get them down and it wont'
be long when we got enough of them learned so as we can jabber back and forth in front of the
boys that didn't have sense enough to learn it and they won't know if we are calling them names
or getting ready to murder them.

Well Al we had Gen. Barry out overlooking us yesterday and he said we was a fine looking bunch
of soldiers as he even seen and we put in most of the day digging trenchs just like the ones
they got over in Germany and when we get them fixed up we will practice fighting for them till
we can go through them Dutchmen like they was fly paper and I wouldn't be surprised Al if we
got word soon to pack up and start because Red Sampson one of the boys in our Co. has got a
brother thats over there all ready and he is Gen. Pershing's right hand bower and so he gets
the dope pretty straight and in a letter Red got from him he says Gen. Pershing had asked Secty.
Daniels to send over the best looking lot of soldiers from each camp and from what Gen. Barry
said about us I suppose we will be the first to go but it may not be for a wk. or so because
Red said he heard we wasn't going till each Co. had a rifle.

If we do have to go in a hurry I won't be able to write you about where we are leaveing from
and etc. on acct. of the censure because the German spy might get next to it and he could wire
across to Germany and the submarine U boats would be on the outlook for us. But between you
and I Red says we are libel not to go where the submarines can get a crack at us but we may
slip around the other way and light in Japan and make the rest of the trip by R.R. and he says
we may even not go to France but stay and help the Russians out. So Shorty Lahey was there
and he has always got to say something so people will think he knows it all so he said the
Russians didn't need nobody to help them out because they were pretty near out now. So Red
said "You will notice they didn't loose much ground yesterday" and Shorty says "No they only
loose 2 miles and they must of been a strong east wind blowing but I will bet you that if we
do make the trip that way we will bump into them along about Ogden Utah." So Red says "No because
if they ever get to Utah they will hide in Salt Lake City where the Germans couldn't tell them
by their beards." So then Shorty seen he was getting kidded and shut up.

This A.M. we spent a half hour listening to a speech about the German gas and of course you
have read about the gas Al and it isn't like regular gas but its some kind of poison that the
Germans lets it loose in the air and it floats across Nobodys land and comes to the other trenchs
and if you haven't got no mask its good night but we are all going to have masks to wear so
the gas can't hurt us. Red says thats one thing where the Russians have got it on us and they
don't have to be scared of dying from gastritis because the Germans haven't no gas fast enough
to catch up with them.

Well Al the world serious is over just like I said it would be with the White Sox winner and
each one of the boys gets $3600.00 and that would of been my share only I loved my country
more than a few dollars and I bet the boys feel kind of ashamed of themself to think I was
the only one that passed up all that jack to work for Uncle Sam at $30.00 per mo. but between
you and I Al I have got a scheme where I will make twice that amt. and if some of the rest
of the boys here thought about it they could do the same thing but why should I tip them off
because you can bet they wouldn't tip me off to a good thing if they thought of it first.

Here is the scheme when a man has got a family the govt. keeps out 1/2 of your pay every month
or more if you want them to and then the govt. sticks the same amt. in with it and sends it
to your wife or who ever gets it. Say you are a private and getting about $30.00 per mo. and
you tell the govt. to keep out $15.00 of it. So the govt. keeps $15.00 and sticks another $15.00
with it and sends it to your family.

Well Al I am going to tell them to keep out my whole $30.00 per mo. and they will have to put
another $30.00 with it and send the $60.00 to Florrie and she won't need it so she can either
send it to me or salt it away somewheres in my name and it means I will be getting $60.00 while
the rest of them are dragging down $30.00 and if it was just luck on my part I wouldn't think
it was hardly fair but when a man figures something out in your head you got a right to take
advantage of it and a man that give up a big league salary and the world serious dough to do
their bit deserves something extra while the only way some of the rest of these birds could
earn $30.00 per mo. outside of the army would be to ask for it with a peace of lead pipe.

Well old pal bon sore for this time and that means good night in French and pretty soon I will
be writeing you a whole letter in French only of course I wouldn't do that because it would
be like waisting that much paper because they couldn't nobody in Bedford make heads or tales
out of it and I might just as well save my labor for my pains as they say.

Your pal, JACK.

CAMP GRANT, Oct. 18.

FRIEND AL: Well old pal I got a peace of news for you that I bet you will be tickled to death
for my sake when I tell it to you. I guess I told you in my last letter about Gen. Barry inspecting
us. Well Al I kind of thought I seen him looking at me like he liked the way I carry myself
and etc. but I didn't want to say nothing about it till I was sure but after breakfast this
A.M. Capt. Nash sent for me and when I went in his office and saluted he says "Good morning
Corporal Keefe." Well Al of course that means I have been appointed a corporal and of course
I expected it only I wasn't looking for it so soon and while Capt. Nash didn't say nothing
it don't take no Bobby Burns to figure out that the orders come from higher up.

The corporals and sargents we had at first was men from the regular army and they been sending
them away lately and now some of the boys from the ranks gets their chance. In order to get
a corporal or a sergent a man has got to have the drills down perfect besides being a perfect
physical specimen and good appearance and a man that the rest of the boys will look up to him
and respect him and a man that don't know the meaning of the word fear. Well Al I must of filled
the bill and I will show Gen. Barry he didn't make no mistake.

My command is made up of 7 men that I am the boss of them and they contain Sebastian and Red
Sampson and Shorty Lahey and a wop named Janinny or something and a big stropper named Hess
and 2 boys named Gardner and Bowen and some of them is pretty rough birds but I won't have
no trouble handleing them because they know about my record in baseball and they can't help
from respecting a man that give up a big salary to help Uncle Sam out and the only I that might
try and give me trouble is Lahey and I guess he has got better sense then trying some of his
funny jokes with a corporal because when a private monkeys with a officer he is libel to wake
up the next A.M. with no place to wear his hat.

Well Al a corporal isn't the highest officer in the army but its a step up and everybody has
got to start at the bottom and Napoleon started as a corporal and the soldiers was all nuts
about him and called him the little Corporal and maybe they will give me a nick name like that
only of course it won't be the little corporal because that would be like calling Jess Willard
Tiny Jess or something and the salary is $36.00 per mo. instead of $30.00 and with that scheme
I got fixed up with the govt. that will give me twice $36.00 per mo. or $66.00 and I'll say
thats a whole lot better then a private at $1.00 per day.

I have all ready wrote and told Florrie about it and I bet she will go crazy when she reads
my letter and after this when they call her Mrs. Keefe she can shrink up her shoulders and
say "Mrs. Corp. Keefe please" and you will have to salute when you see me Al. Of course I mean
that for a joke because what ever honors I get I wouldn't leave them make no difference in
our friendship and betwen you and I it will always be just plain Jack Keefe.

Well Al we started today learning to throw bombs and of course that won't be no trick for me
and you might say it was waisting time for me to practice at it because when my arm feels O.K.
I can throw in your vest pocket but today it was raining and I wouldn't cut loose and take
chances with my arm because I figure this war won't last long and I guess I won't have no trouble
signing up in the big league at my own turns after what I done. But you ought to seen the officer
that was trying to learn us how and if they all throw like he its a wonder they hit Europe
to say nothing about the Germans. He kept his arm stiff like he didn't have no elbow joint
and he was straight over hand all the while like Reulbach and you know what kind of control he had.

We didn't have no regular bombs but only stones and tomato cans but the way he throwed he couldn't
of took a baseball and hit the infield from second base and finely I told him and he said yes
but if you crooked your arm you would wear it out because the regular bombs weighs almost 2
lbs. and you had to use a easy motion. How is that Al for a fresh bum trying to talk to me
about easy motions and I had a notion to tell him to go back to France with his motions but
I kept my temper and throwed a few the right way till my arm got to feeling sore.

Well its 10 o'clock and after and I am going to turn in and it isn't that I feel sleepy but
when a man is a officer you feel like you ought to set an example to the men.

Your pal, CORP. JACK KEEFE.

CAMP GRANT, Oct. 22.

FRIEND AL: Well Al we had some lessons in trench takeing today and I feel like I had been in
a football game or something. We would climb up out of the trenchs that was supposed to be
the U.S. trenchs and run across Nobody's Land and take the trenchs that was supposed to be
the German trenchs and clean them out with rifles and bayonets and bombs and of course we didn't
have no real rifles and bombs but if we had of and they had been any Germans in the trenchs
it would of been good night to them.

We done it over and over till I was pretty near wore out but of course I pretended like I was
fresh as a daisy because a good corporal wouldn't never lay down till he was dead and its their
business to set up an example for the boys and inspire them so I kept hollering like Hughey
Jennings or somebody and every time we started out of our trenchs I would holler "Come on boys
give them hell this time" and I guess it made a hit with the instructers because they kept
smileing at me and talking about me between themselfs and I could pretty near guess what they
said. But of course it made Shorty Lahey sore to see me getting all the attentions and he says
to me "Who do you think you are Jonah Vark?" So I said "You tend to your business and show
some life or I will Jonah Vark you in the jaw."

So afterwards when we was in the barracks he come up and says "If you are playing Jonah Vark
you should ought to quit telling us to come on boys and give them hell because Jonah Vark wouldn't
never use a word like that." So I said "I guess he would say a whole lot worse then that if
he had a dirty rat like you in his command." So that shut him up.

Tonight they showed us some pictures that was supposed to be the West Pt. cadets drilling and
Capt. Nash says if we ever got so as we could drill like that he would quit working us so hard.
Well Al its all O.K. to hand that stuff to the boys that don't know no more then to fall for
it but I hope they didn't suppose I was a sucker enough to think those was real pictures but
of course I wouldn't say nothing because if looking at a lot of fake pictures makes the boys
work harder the sooner we will get sent to France.

I was just talking to Red Sampson and he was telling me about a bird named Chambers in Co.
A and it shows some people don't know when they have got a good thing and don't appreciate
what people trys to do for them. I remember this bird comeing out with us on the train and
they wouldn't nobody go near him on acct. of him being such a bum and Red says he heard that
for a while after we got here they had to chase this bird under the shower bath with a bayonet
and he done most of his drilling in the guard house. So finely his captain told him he wouldn't
stand for no more of his monkey business and he would call him up in front of the court marshall
if he didn't behave himself.

So then Chambers says all right he would make a new start and sure enough he cut it all out
and begin to take a pride in himself and got the drills down pat and kept clean and his captain
wanted to show him it payed to be a man and he made a corporal out of him.

Well Al you can't break the rules when you are a corporal no more than a private but this bird
went to Chi the day before yesterday on a leave and he was supposed to be back at 11 P.M. last
night but he don't show till 2 A.M. and he was all lit up like the City of Benton Harbor and
of course the guard nailed him and he got called up before his captain and he busted him and
I don't mean he cracked him in the jaw but when a man gets busted in the army it means you
get reduced to a private. So I said to Red what a sucker this bird was and Red says maybe he
wanted to get busted because a corporal has got such a load on their shoulders that lots of
men would rather be a private. So I said it must be a fine kind of a man that would turn down
a job in the army because it was a tough job and Red says "Yes but everybody ain't like you
and some men don't want no responsibility but you are one of the kind that the more they have
the better they like it and everybody could see you was a born leader the way you acted in
that trench drill today."

So I suppose after all a man like Chambers has no business in a job like corporal because it
is a cinch nobody would ever call him a born leader unless it was in the gin league but still
a person would think he would try and behave himself after the captain give him that chance
but still I should not worry and it is none of my business and all I got to do is set up the
right kind of an example for my own command and leave the rest of them take care of themselfs.

Your pal, JACK.

CAMP GRANT, Oct. 23.

FRIEND AL: Well I have quit takeing French class lessons and I quit because I felt it wasn't
fair to either myself or Capt. Nash because when a man is a corporal its all head work you
might say and a man ought to keep their mind on their job evenings as well as day times and
I felt like I couldn't do that and be monking with French at the same time and it would be
like as if I was back pitching baseball and trying to learn to play a saxophone or something
at the same time and in the evenings when I ought to be figureing out how to pitch to Pipp
instead of that I would have my mind on what keys to blow next though of course I just say
that for a comparison because I could learn how to play the whole band and still make a sucker
out of that bird because all you got to do is to pitch outside. But besides that I figured
that the man who was trying to learn us French didn't know what he was talking about and what
is the use of learning it wrong and then you got to start all over again when we got over there.
For inst. he asked me what was the English word for very in French so I knew it was tres so
I said tres and he says no it was tray because you say the letter e like it was the letter
a and you don't pay no attention to the letter s. So I asked him what it was there for then
and he said that was just the French of it so I had a notion to tell him to go and take a jump
in the lake but I decided to just say nothing and quit. I guess the French people are not crazy
and they wouldn't nobody but a crazy man stick a letter in a word and then make up their mind
to ignore it you might say and it would be just like as if I wanted a beer and I would go up
to the bar and say "Give me a bee" and I guess the man would think I thought I was in a bee
hive or something or else he would think I had a bee in my bonnet eh Al?

But laying all jokes to one side I have got to much on my mind to be fooling with it and besides
I put in a week on it and I figure I have got it down good enough so as I can get by and besides
I am one of those kind that don't have much to say but when theys something to be done you
don't have to send no blood hounds to find where I am at.

Red Sampson got another letter today from his brother in France and Red says his brother and
Pershing was right up close to the front where they could see the fighting and they was a big
battle in Sept. that the papers didn't get a hold of it and about 2500 Frenchmen was killed.
So Shorty Lahey asked if they was all privates and Red says No that in the French army they
have things different and you don't often see a private killed but when theys 25000 men killed
you can figure that at least 20000 of them was corporals and sargents because the corporals
and sargents has to go out in front of all the charges. Well Al I am glad its different in
the U.S. army but at that I am not the kind of a man that would hang back for the fear of getting
a bullet in me and if I was I would resign from my command and tell them to get somebody else.

Your pal, JACK.

CAMP GRANT, Oct. 24.

FRIEND AL: Well Al this was Liberty Day and we had a parade in Rockford and they was also some
ball games out here and that is the boys thought they was playing ball and everybody was crazy
I should pitch for one of the teams but in the first place I didn't feel like it would be fair
and besides I figure its bad dope for the officers to mix up with the men and play games with
them and etc. and thats not because I think I am any better then anybody else but if you hold
yourself off they respect you that much more and I have noticed that Capt. Nash and the lieuts,
don't hang a round with nobody only themselfs and when it comes to the majors and colonels
I guess they don't even speak to their own wife only when they are danceing maybe and step
on each others ft.

Well Al I decided today to not try and work that little scheme I had about alloting my whole
salary to Florrie and then the govt. would put the same amt. with it and I would be salting
away $66.00 per mo. instead of $36.00 and I was talking to Corp. Haney about it and he says
it couldn't be done and I don't know about that but any way I figured it wouldn't be fair to
the rest of the boys so I am going to allot $18.00 per mo. to Florrie to keep for me and that
leaves me $18 per mo. to spend that is it leaves me that amt. on paper but when you come to
figure it out Al I am paying $5.60 for soldiers insurance and $10.00 per mo. for another liberty
bond I bought and that leaves me $2.40 per mo. to spend and how is that for a man that was
drawing a salary in the big league but at that I have got it on some of the privates that gives
up the same amt. for insurance and a liberty bond and they only gets $30.00 per mo. and 1/2
of that amt. gos to their wife so when it comes to the end of the month they owe $.60 for being
a soldier.

Speaking about the soldiers insurance with the kind I got if I was disabled they would have
to give me $50.00 to $60.00 per mo. on acct. of me haveing Florrie and little Al and that would
come in handy Al if I got my right arm shot off and couldn't pitch but at that I know birds
in the big league now thats drawing $400.00 to $500.00 per mo. and as far as their pitchings
conserned they might just as well have both their arms shot off and include their head.

Well anyway we won't have to practice fighting no more with broom sticks and cans and etc.
because Sargent James told us tonight that the rifles was comeing so I said to my boys that
I hoped they was good shots so we could make a sucker out of the other squads and I told them
if they was all as good a shot as me I wouldn't have no kick because I figure that anybody
thats got as good control when they throw or pitch should certainly ought to shoot straight.
So Red Sampson says that if I was in the French army it wouldn't do me no good to be a crack
shot and I asked him why not and he says the corporals in the French army are not allowed to
carry no guns but all they was supposed to do was run ahead of the privates and draw the fire
and maybe if the Germans happened to not hit them they could pull out their scissors and cut
the bob wire untanglements so as the privates wouldn't have no trouble getting in to the German
trenchs where they could use their bayonets.

Red says "Instead of the pollutes trying to get to be a corporal they try not to because when
they appoint you a corporal in the French army its a good night kiss and of course its a honor
at that because it shows they think you are a game bird and don't care for your own life as
long as you help the cause and that is why they picked you out. Because a corporal don't carry
no arms of any kind and all he is is a kind of a decoy to kep the Germans shooting at him so
as to protect the regular soldiers and that is why over 80% of the casualtys in the French
army is corporals."

Well Al as I said before I am not in the French army and I should worry about what they do
to corporals in the French army.

I pretty near forgot to tell you that I am going home on leave Saturday and you can bet I am
going this time sick or no sick because from all the rumors a round the camp we might be leaveing
for across the pond any day now specially with the rifles comeing and that makes it look like
we would soon be on our way and if I didn't see Florrie and little Al before I left it would
probably be the last time I would see them because something tells me Al that if I go over
there I won't never come back.

Your pal, JACK.

CAMP GRANT, Oct. 26.

FRIEND AL: Well don't be surprised if you read in the paper any A.M. where our regt. has been
ordered to France but of course I don't suppose they would come out in the paper with it because
General Pershing don't want it to get out what regts. is over there and probably you won't
hear nothing about it when we do go because they won't be no chance for me to write to you
and if you don't hear from me for a long while you will know we have gone and the next time
you hear from me will be from over there. I got the dope tonight from Red Sampson and he heard
it from one of the men that was on guard yesterday and this man heard the Col. telling Capt.
Gould of Co. B that General Pershing had sent for the best looking regt. out here and Gen.
Barry had recommended our regt. and from what Red says we will probably go in a week or so
and he don't know if we are going by the way of the Atlantic or the Pacific but all as I hope
is that we get there before the war is over.

I am certainly glad now that I arranged for leave this wk. end because it will give me a chance
to fix my affairs up before I go and if anything should happen to me they wouldn't be no trouble
for Florrie about property and etc. I certainly wish I had enough so as I could leave you and
Bertha something to help you along old pal and maybe if they had give me more time I could
of fixed things up but all as I can leave you now is my friendship and remember that if anything
happens I was your old pal and you boys that stays home is the ones we are laying down our
life for and if it wasn't for men like we where would you be at Al and your familys?

Well Al I am proud of my squad the way they took the news and we was the only ones that knew
about it and yet they wasn't a man in my command that didn't act like he was tickled to death
and thats the right kind of a spirit and I spoke about it to Red Sampson. I said "I am proud
of all of you because instead of you whineing and putting on a long face you all act like you
was going to a picnic or something." So Red says he guessed the rest of the boys and him didn't
have no license to cry as long as I kept up my spirits. He says "Maybe it would be different
if we was all corporals because then it would seem like we was leaveing home forever. But you
are the bird thats takeing the chance and if you can keep smileing we would be a fine bunch
if we broke down and begun to whine and I don't suppose theys a man amongst us that has thought
about danger to themselfs but its all whats going to happen to you."

Well Al thats the kind of a bunch to have under you and it makes a man think of Napoleon and
how his men looked up at him.

Well maybe you won't get no more letters from me that is if the call comes before I leave tomorrow
for Chi but if I get there O.K. I will write to you from there because probably by the time
I get back here the orders will be to pack up and move and then I won't have no time to write.

Your pal, JACK.

CHICAGO, Oct. 28.

FRIEND AL: Well Florrie is still in the hay yet and little Al is playing with himself on the
floor and reading the pictures in the Sunday A.M. paper and I thought I would sleep late this
A.M. but when a man gets in the habit of wakeing up early you get so as you can't sleep after
you wake up once and thats the way it was with me.

Well Al I suppose you will be surprised at me saying it but I pretty near wish I wasn't no
officer but just a private like at first and I got a good notion to go back to the camp like
Chambers did behind time and 1/2 stewed and the reason I feel like that is because I have got
attached to my boys and I would pretty near rather give up going to France all together then
quit them because it seems like it wouldn't be hardly fair to leave them now that they have
got so as they look up at me and I figure that even if I wasn't a corporal no more but just
I of them I could do more good then if I quit them entirely.

I suppose you will wonder what I am getting at Al. Well on the train comeing from Rockford
yesterday I was setting with Shorty Lahey and he was on leave to and I know its a mistake sometimes
for a officer to pal a round with their men but I set with him on the train because I can't
stand it to hurt a man's feelings and Shorty's hearts in the right place with all his jokeing
and etc. So we set down together on the train and got to talking things over and he says "Well
Keefe you have got to be a corporal and that means you have made good and I wish I was in your
shoes."

So I said that if he took care of himself and minded his business they wasn't no reason why
he wouldn't be advanced higher up the ladder some time in the future and he says "Yes but now
is the time I would like to be in your shoes because I would like to get over to France and
get in it." So I asked him what he meant and he says the dope Red Sampson was giving me was
part of it right and part of it wrong and the right dope was that General Pershing hadn't sent
for our whole regt. but what he had sent for was all the non commission officers out of the
regt. and that means all the corporals and sergents and they was the only ones going this time
because the French army had ran out of non commission, officers and General Pershing was going
to lend them the best ones we had over here in training.

So I said "Well it looks like I was elected and its 100 to 1 that I won't never come back."
So Shorty says "Oh I don't know about that and I think Red Sampson is wrong about them killing
all them corporals because from what I heard they's a few of them they don't try and kill so
they can take them prisoner and get information off them."

So I said "They would have a hell of a chance getting information off me because they could
kill me before I would spill anything." So Shorty says "You might not spill nothing at first
but you would be a game bird if you stuck through all the tortures because when they ask you
something and you don't tell them they cut off a couple of toes and see if that won't make
you talk and so on till you don't hardly know if you are alive but if you are game enough to
stand all they give you why finely they will see what a game bird you are and then they finish
you off so you won't suffer no more. But if you tell them all you know right at first they
won't do nothing to you only of course you will be a prisoner there in Germany till the war
is over and they make you work your head off without no food and they don't even feed the guards
because they want to keep them mad at the prisoners so as they will make them work harder and
every time you act like you was loafing or something the guards scratchs their initials in
you with their bayonet."

So I asked him where he got his dope and he says he didn't know if it was all true or not but
his wife's 2 brothers was in the German army and they had wrote home about it and maybe it
was all bunk.

Well Al I figured I would take Florrie to a show somewheres last night because maybe it would
be the last time but after supper I felt kind of sick on acct. of the change in food and I
asked Florrie if she would just as leave stay home so I went to bed early and I thought I would
get a good rest but I didn't get no sleep and as I said I couldn't sleep this A.M. and now
I am waiting for her to get up for breakfast.

I only wish they was some way for me to get out of this corporal and it isn't that I can't
handle it but it seems like a shame to leave the other boys that almost worships me you might
say and here is little Al playing on the floor and if his daddy was just a private I might
maybe stay at Camp Grant all winter and come in and see Florrie and he every month.

Your pal, JACK.

CAMP GRANT, Oct. 30.

FRIEND AL: Well Al I am not going to France at all that is right away and this time I got the
dope straight from Capt. Nash and not from no Lahey or Sampson.

Here is the way I come to find out Al. I was supposed to get back in camp Sunday night but
I missed the train out of Chi and I took the first train yesterday A.M. and I got reported
for being A.W.O.L., and that means I was absent without no leave so I got called up in the
orderly room in front of Capt. Nash.

So he says "Well Keefe don't tell me your aunt died." So I asked him what he meant because
I haven't no aunt only by marriage that lives down in Texas. So he says "Do you know what we
could do to you for being A.W.O.L." So I said "I suppose you could bust me." So he says "Yes
and that isn't all. If you was drunk or some excuse like that we could have you out in front
of a fireing party or if we wanted to go easy with you we could send you down to Ft. Leavenworth
for 10 yrs." So I said "I wasn't drunk sir and all the trouble was that I missed a train out
of Chi and I didn't miss it more than 2 minutes." So he says "Well 2 minutes and 2 wks. don't
make no difference in this game. But you have been behaving yourself O.K. and we got a fine
record in this Co. and I don't want to loose no non commission officers because I haven't got
none now thats worth a dam. So you see that you don't miss no more trains because the next
time it will go a whole lot different. You are excused only that you won't get no more leave
for a month."

So I said thank you sir and told him I was sorry because I was in a hurry to get to France
and didn't want nothing to come up to interfere with me going and he says "You don't want to
go no more then I do but it looks like we would all be here till we die of old age." So I asked
him if the corporals wasn't going ahead of the rest of the bunch and he says the corporals
would go with the privates unless they was all shot by that time for being A.W.O.L.

So here I am Al and I have told the boys I was not going to quit them and I never seen nobody
so tickled. Well Al I am glad to in a way and on the other hand its a big dissapointment but
a man has got to learn to swallow their dissapointments in the army and take what comes.

Your pal, JACK.

CAMP GRANT, Nov. 4.

FRIEND AL: Well Al they have begin to bust up our regt. and take men away from it and the men
they take will get to France before the rest of us the lucky stiffs but they don't send them
right to France from here but they send them down south to the national guards camps and fill
up the national guards with them and the national guards are going to get across the pond first
because Secty. Daniels wants to save the good regts. for the finish.

Well Al they can't send me to France to soon but it looks like they wasn't a chance for a man
like I to get sent with the national guards because the men we are sending down south is the
riff and raff you might say who we want to get rid of them so when Secty. Daniels sends word
that the national guards at such and such a place wants 7 or 800 men the officers here picks
them out from amidst the kitchen policemen and the guard house.

It looks now like the real soldiers that they got here would be here maybe all winter but between
you and I Al I got a scheme to beat that game. I found out today that they are going to start
a officers training camp here in Jan. and if a man makes good in it they will give him a lieut.
or a capt. and they won't be no riff and raff allowed in the camp only men that would make
a good officer so I guess I won't have no trouble getting in the camp and once I win my lieut.
or capt. bars they will probably send me straight to France to take command.

Things are going along O.K. without much news to write about. Sarah Bernhart the French comedian
was in Rockford Friday and come out to give the boys a treat and for some reason another the
most of the boys fell all over their self trying to get up close to her and get her to smile
at them. Well Al everybody to their own taste but from what I seen of her she would be perfectly
safe around me and if she is a day old she is 50 yrs. old and I will bet money on it. Any way
I wouldn't trade Florrie for a dozen like she.

Your pal, JACK.

CAMP GRANT, Nov. 7.

FRIEND AL: Here is one for you Al and its just between you and I because I wouldn't have no
one else hear about it for the world. Yesterday we was all presented with some sox made out
of knitting and they come in a bunch from the Red X and when I was going to bed I thought I
would try mine on and see if they fit and if they didn't maybe I could trade with somebody
that they did. Well Al I stuck my foot down in 1 of them and my toe run into something funny
and I pulled my foot out and stuck my hand down in it and pulled out a note that was folded
in side of the sock. Well of course I opened the note up and read it and I will copy down what
it said. It says "Dear Soldier Boy, you may never see me but if you can spare time to write
me just a few lines it will make me happier than any one in the world for I am oh so lonesome.
You won't disappoint me will you Soldier Boy?" And it was signed Lone Star but down below she
had wrote her name and address. Her name is Miss Lucy Chase and she lives in Texas.

Well Al I can't help from feeling sorry for her and if it wasn't for Florrie and little Al
I would write her a note back and thank her for the sox though between you and I they are to
small and try and say something that would cheer her up. But of course Florrie wouldn't like
for me to do it and a married man shouldn't ought to be monking around like that and lead a
girl on though of course if I did write to her the first thing I would tell her would be that
I am married.

But what has been puzzling me is where she seen me. Maybe it was 1 of the times we played in
Texas in the spring trip either that or she seen my picture somewheres. Well Al it must of
been a picture without my feet in it or she would of made the sox bigger and I wish she had
of because I don't feel like tradeing them off to nobody now that I know they was made for
me by a admirer. Laying all jokes to 1 side I do feel sorry for the girl and if she had of
made herself known to me a few years sooner things might of been different. Don't say nothing
about this even to Bertha because I don't want it to get all over Bedford. I am not the kind
that brags around about their admirers especially when its a girl.

I thought once or twice today that I would just drop her a card pretending like the sox fit
me to a tea and thanking her for them and giving a hint that I was a married man but on second
thoughts I guess its better to just let the whole affair drop right here.

They sprung a new one on us last night. Word come from the head quarters that everybody had
to learn to sing and last night was the first lesson and they was about 3000 of us and the
teacher was a bird named Nevin and he got up in front and started out on Keep the home fires
burning and said we was to all join in. Well Al for some reason another everybody but he had
the lockjaw and as far as we was concerned the fires would of all died out. Most of our gang
is from Chi where they leave takeing care of the furnace to the janitor. He tried 2 or 3 other
songs but we was all deaf and dumb mutes and he finely give up and says he would try some other
time when the cat didn't have a hold of our tongue so on the way back to quarters everybody
cut loose and sung and you could of heard us in Beloit. We got a lot of good singers right
in our Co. that can hit the minors to but we are not going to bust out on no teacher's say
so like we was in kinder-garden or something.

Well Al I am going to break into a new game football. They are getting up a club here in camp
to play against the Great Lakes navy and the Camp Custer club up in Mich. and they want all
the men thats played football to come out and try for the club here. Well I never played but
I told them I did and they won't know the difference when they see me because when a man is
a born athelete they can play any game and especially a college Willy boy game like football.
I seen one of their college games out to the university in Chi once and a man built like I
could of made a sucker out of both clubs.

The capt. of the camp club here is Capt. Whiting and he played with the university of Chi and
they got some other would be stars like Shiverick that played with the Ithaca club down east
and Schobinger or something from Champlain college here in Ill. and a man from Princeton name
Eddy something. Well I will show them something before I get through with them because an athelete
has got to be born and you can't make them out of college Willy boys that stays up all night
doing the foxy trot and gets stewed on chocolate and whip cream.

Your pal, JACK.

CAMP GRANT, Nov. 10.

FRIEND AL: Well Al I suppose you read in the papers about that troop train that a gang of spys
tried to wreck it and it was a train full of burglars from here that we sent down to Camp Logan
to fill up the national guards and the papers made out like the people that tried to wreck
it was pro German spys but if you had of seen the birds that was on the train you wouldn't
believe it because they wouldn't no Germans waist their time on them because they will all
kill each other anyway before they get to France. One of the birds on it was Shorty Lahey that
I all ready told you about him and when the national guards sees him they will just about declare
war against Camp Grant.

Well Al you remember me writeing to you about that little girl down in Texas that sent me the
note in the sox. Well I got to thinking it over and the more I thought about it I got to thinking
that it wasn't the square thing to not pay no attention to her when she maybe wore her hands
to the bone and strained her eyes so as my feet would keep warm so finely I set down and answered
her back and I didn't say nothing mushy of course but just a friendly note to let her know
I received the sox and I told her they was a perfect fit and I asked her where it was she ever
seen me or my picture or how she come to pick me out and I didn't tell her nothing about being
married because what would be the use of hurting her and they can't be no harm done because
we will never meet and as soon as she writes and tells me where she seen me that will end it.
But I just couldn't stand it to think of the poor kid running to the door every time the mail
man come and maybe crying when they wasn't nothing for her. I guess Florrie wouldn't have no
objections under the circumstances but if she did find out and start to ball me out I would
tell her to take a jump in the lake because she never even mended me a pair of sox to say nothing
about knit them. I also asked the girl to send me a picture of herself because it tickles them
to be asked for their picture and of course as soon as I get it I will tear it up but she won't
know that.

Well Al I decided to not play on the football club here after all. In the 1st. place theys
3 or 4 privates trying for the club and I don't believe in mixing up with them to much and
if Whiting and them other officers wants to all right, but that don't make it all right in
my mind. And besides I figured it wasn't fair to either myself or Capt. Nash to run the risk
of getting hurt in some fool game to say nothing about learning a lot of fool signals that
don't mean nothing but just learning them takes up your time that you ought to spend thinking
how to improve your command. And another thing the minute they started to practice I seen they
didn't know the fame and they will get licked every time they play and I can't stand to be
with a looser. They talked about what a great kicker this Shiverick is but I watched him trying
to kick gools and he missed 3 out of 10 and one of them rolled right along the ground like
a baby had kicked it.

Capt. Whiting come up to me when I come out on the field and asked me my name and etc. and
what position did I play and I told him center rush or tackle back it didn't make no difference.
So he asked me what college I played at and I told him Harvard which was the 1st. thing that
come into my head. So he says "All right we need a good tackle back so you can play there now
in signal practice" so they lined up and I stood back of the center rush and they called out
some numbers and throwed the ball to one of them and 3 or 4 of us bumped into each other and
fell down and I got a bad kick in the head but it wasn't bad enough to make me quit but what
is the use of takeing chances. They can have their football Al if they want to waist the govt.
time but I got enough to think about thinking about winning this war.

Your pal, JACK.

CAMP GRANT, Nov. 14.

FRIEND AL: Well this was our day out to the rifle range and I'll say Secty. Daniels better
hurry up and send some teachers here that knows their business. But wait till you hear about it.

In the 1st. place it was a rotten day and a bad wind and so dark you couldn't hardly see and
they ought not to of made anybody try to shoot. Well they had some targets that they said was
100 yds. from where we was to shoot from but it was more like 1/4 of a mile and they said 100
yds. so we would think it was closer. Well the idear was that each guy was to shoot 10 times
and if you hit the target it counted 1 pt. and if you hit the bulls eye it counted 5 pts. so
if you hit the bulls eye every time you got 50 pts. but nobody in the world could do that the
way they made us shoot. What do you think of them makeing a man lay on their stomach to shoot
instead of standing up and I suppose if the Germans got 100 yds. from us we would all lay there
like we had a stomache and let them come. Somebody said we layed that way so as to give them
less mark to shoot at. How is that for fine dope? Because if you was laying on your stomach
faceing them and they hit you at all they couldn't hit you nowheres only in the head and kill
you where if you was standing up straight they would be more libel to hit you anywheres except
in the head and maybe you would get off with a flesh wound or something.

Well 1 of the smart aleck lieuts. started out and hit the bulls eye 8 times and the target
the other 2 times and that give him 42 and he swelled up like a poison pup but the way the
wind was blowing you could tell it was just a accident because if he had of really shot at
the target the wind would of carried his shots to hell and gone away from it but what he done
was shoot with his eyes shut and the wind done the rest of it for him. So some of the other
boys shot and some of them had a lot of luck and Red Sampson got 38 and finely it come my turn
and I was dizzy from something I eat and besides by that time it was so dark you couldn't hardly
make out where the target was and I was all cramped up laying there but at that I just missed
the bulls eye the 1st. time and finely quit with 8. So afterwards Red Sampson asked me how
it come I didn't have a expert rifle shooter's meddle on me trying to kid me. So I said "I
never had to shoot for a liveing because I could go out and pitch baseball and make real money
where a man like you every time the family wanted meat for dinner they would send you out to
shoot a snake or a tom cat or something." So it was him that got kidded.

Well Al I will be shooting with the best of them as soon as I get the nack and when they get
a man here to learn us that knows his business and pick out a day when the wind ain't blowing
a mile a minute and pitch dark.

I haven't had no answer from that little girl down in Texas and I hope she has got over her
infatuation and decided to forget me.

Your pal, JACK.

CAMP GRANT, Nov. 17.

FRIEND AL: Well Al what do you think I got a letter from the girlie down in Texas and the poor
kid has gone crazy over me and I only wish they was some way to stop her because of course
it has got to end right here and I will just have to drop her a line and tell her the truth
that I am a married man and the best thing she can do is try and forget. But I am afraid it
will be pretty hard for her and I only wish she hadn't never seen or heard about me.

For some reason another she won't tell me where it was she seen me or she won't send me no
picture because she says I might show it to the boys and laugh over that little girl down in
Texas and of course I wouldn't do nothing like that and she wouldn't think so if she knew me
better. Here is what her letter says.

My Soldier Boy, so you are an officer now. Well that is just grand and I feel all the happier
and prouder to hear from you. No Soldier Boy I won't tell you where I saw you. You will just
have to guess. Don't you remember that day at------? If you don't I won't tell you. And I won't
send you my photo because I know what soldier boys are. You would show it to everybody in camp
and you would all have a good laugh over the little f--l woman down in Texas who is fond of
you. Well Boy we will probably never see each other unless you should happen to be sent to
one of the camps down here. Is there any chance of that Soldier Boy? So you quit a job in the
big league to fight for Uncle Sam? That was fine of you and makes me all the prouder to have
your friendship. I am glad you like the hose I knitted for you. Do you want some more or can
I make you a helmet or a sweater or something? Just say what you need and I will make my needles
fly to furnish you with it. And write to me soon. We are so far apart that it takes your letters
days and days to reach me. Au revoir for this time Big Boy.

Well Al I can't remember to save my soul where it was I and she could of met. Maybe I could
if she had of put the name of the town in her letter but she just left a dash like I copied
it. I been trying to think up all the girls I met in different towns while I was with the ball
club and I can remember a lot of them but nobody named Chase but of course she might of give
me a fake name the time we met.

Well as I say theys only the 1 thing to do and that is drop her a line and say how things stand
with me and for her to forget about me. Its mighty nice of her to offer to knit me them other
articles but of course I can't ask her to under the circumstances and all I can do is just
to call it off or maybe it would be better to not write to her back but just leave her guess
the truth only I am afraid she would think I was a bum to not acknollege her letter. I wish
they was somebody to advice me what to do but I guess I can't look for no help from you along
those lines eh Al? You never had them looseing their heads and makeing garments for you and etc.

I pretty near forgot to tell you that these college Willy boys got cleaned up 9 to 6 in their
game with the sailors from the Great Lakes and the sailors made a monkey out of them and they
wasn't a kid on the sailors club that is 20 yrs. old. I bet Capt. Whiting would of gave his
right eye for a good husky tackle back when them sailors was pushing his Willys around the field.

Your pal, JACK.

CAMP GRANT, Nov. 22.

FRIEND AL: Well they have just sent away another train load of the boys to 1 of the national
guards and if they keep it up we won't have more then 30 or 40 left to a Co. I wish I was with
the boys that went but theys no chance of that because they are keeping the best men here so
as we will be all together when they get ready to send us across. And it looks like I won't
be able to get into the officers training camp because I heard today that they won't leave
nobody in that can't talk all the languages of the ally countrys. Red Sampson heard 2 of the
lieuts. talking about it and 1 of them was saying how even the college boys would have to hustle
between now and Jan. because while most of them could talk French and Italian they was very
few colleges where you can learn Roman and Australian and etc. so it looks like I would be
bared out because while I might pick up the French and maybe 1 or 2 others I couldn't possibly
master 8 or 9 languages in hardly a month you might say. I don't know what the idear is but
it probably come from the same guy that makes you shoot laying on your stomach.

Speaking about a month my month without leave is pretty near up and I am figureing on going
to Chi the 1st. of Dec. and see Florrie and little Al though for all as I know they both may
be dead because Florrie won't never suffer from writers cramp on my acct. I have asked her
2 or 3 times to come out for Sunday and bring the kid but no its always to cold or she has
got company comeing for dinner or 1 thing another.

Sometimes I pretty near wish I had a wife like Sebastian's thats so homely you can't hardly
look at her but still and all you get a chance to once in a while.

Well I wrote to that poor kid down in Texas and told her I didn't want to bother her to make
me a helmet or a sweater but I all ready got a helmet. I didn't have the heart to tell her
about Florrie or tell her to quit writeing to me but I give her a kind of a hint that I was
to busy to spend much time writeing letters and I hope she don't try and keep up a correspondence
because it can't do neither of us no good and the best way would be for us to both forget it
and of course that wouldn't be no trouble for me but I am afraid a girl don't forget so easy.

Well Al this ain't what you might call a happy letter but I don't know no good news to write
only they have gave up our choir practice as a bad job and we don't have to worry no more about
letting the fires go out.

Your pal, JACK.

CAMP GRANT, Dec. 2.

FRIEND AL: Well Al I just got back from Chi and of all the tough luck a man ever had I had it.

You remember me telling you about the last time I come back from my leave and I got in late
and Capt. Nash says I couldn't have no more leave for a month. Well the month was up Friday
and I had it fixed so as I could go to Chi Saturday A.M. with the gang that was going to the
football game between our club and Camp Custer and the only ones that was allowed to go was
the ones that had boughten tickets to the game so I bought a ticket though I didn't have no
intentions of waisting my time out to no Willy boy football game.

Well we got to Chi about noon and we had to march all over town and everybody stood on the
sidewalks and cheered us to the ecco and I couldn't get away from the bunch till the parade
was over though I don't enjoy marching and have everybody stare at you but when it was over
I beat it for home. Well I hadn't said nothing to Florrie about comeing because I wanted to
surprise her and I thought of course little Al and the Swede would be home and I and little
Al could walk in on Florrie over to the beauty parlor and surprise her, but when I got to the
flat and rung the bell they wasn't no answer and I rung and rung and finely I seen they wasn't
nobody home so I went to the beauty parlor and 1 of the girls there told be that Florrie was
takeing the P.M. off and wouldn't be back till Monday A.M.

So I went back to the flat and looked for the janitor to let me in and when you don't want
janitors they are always snooping around at your coat tails but when you do want them they
are hideing in the ash bbl. or something. So it took me about a hour to find this bird and
another hour to get him to open the door up for me and of course they wasn't nobody home so
the janitor says maybe I could find out where they went from the neighbors so I rung the woman
across the hall's bell and she come to the door. So I said "I'm Corp. Keefe and I wanted to
know if you knew where is my wife and kid." So she says "They went out." Well Al I suppose
I didn't know they had went out and I felt like saying to her "Oh I thought they might maybe
of crawled in between the wall paper to take a nap or I thought maybe they might of left the
stopper out of the bath tub and got drained off or something." But I just asked her did she
know where they went and she said she didn't.

Well I seen she didn't know nothing about them or probably nothing else so I went back in the
flat and waited and waited and it come along 5 o'clock and I called up a saloon over on Indiana
and asked them to fetch me over a doz. bottles of beer and I had 2 of them and then went out
to a restaurant and had supper and come back and nobody home yet. Well to make a short story
out of it I finished the beer up and finely went to bed and I didn't know nothing more till
9 A.M. this morning when the Swede come snooping into the room and seen me and let out a screem
and beat it and I got up and dressed and went in the kitchen and she said Florrie had took
little Al somewheres to stay all night with some friends and give the Swede permission to go
to a ski jumpers dance out to Berwyn and Florrie would be home about 11.

Well Florrie come strutting in with the kid about 12 looking like she hadn't done nothing out
of the way and when she seen me she squeeled and come romping over for a kiss. Well Al she
didn't get it. I kissed little Al all right but I didn't see where she had a right to expect
favors. Well she seen how things stood and begin trying to explain something about spending
the P.M. down town shopping and then going to a show with some friends of hers on the north
side and they left little Al in charge of the nurse at the friends and they both stayed there
all night and why didn't I tell her I would be home so as she could have changed her plans
and etc. So I said "Yes you are a fine wife and mother running around town with a bunch of
bums and leave your kid all alone in charge of a nurse that you don't know nothing about her
and for all as you know she might of cut his ears off like a Belgium." Well I was sore and
I give her a good balling out and of course it wound up like usual with her busting out crying
and then they wasn't nothing for me to do only say I didn't mean what I had been saying and
we had dinner and maybe everything would of been O.K. only we hadn't no sooner gotten up from
the table when in come 1/2 of the south side and their wifes to call. Well they wasn't none
of them I ever seen before or ever want to see them again and they was all friends of Florrie's
and 2 of the ladys was customers of hers so she didn't dare tell them to get the h-ll out of
there and a Mrs. Crane and a Mrs. Somebody else picked on me and got me in a pocket on the
Davenport and they didn't even have sence enough to call me Corporal but it was Mr. Keefe this
and Mr. Keefe that and when did I think the war would end and wasn't the Germans awful and
how many men did we have in France and when was I going and so on. And Mrs. Crane said her
and all her friends was so jealous of Mrs. Keefe because her husband was a soldier so I said
I had heard they was room in some of the camps for a few more husbands and Mrs. Crane said
her husband had tried his hardest to get into something but he had bad teeth so I said why
didn't he try and get into some good dentist office. But they wasn't no way I could get them
mad enough to go home till 5 o'clock then I and Florrie and the kid had just a hour together
before I had to beat it for the train.

Well Al I won't get no more leave off till Xmas and maybe not then but what is the use any
way when your wife gives you a welcome like that and all together it was a fine trip and I
won't never try and take nobody by surprise after this but at that why couldn't she of stayed
home where a woman belongs.

My train was jamed comeing back tonight and I don't know where they got it but everybody was
oiled up and celebrating about beating Camp Custer in the football game and I'll say Camp Custer
must be a home for cripples or something if that's the kind of a football club they turn out
any way I bet they ain't no room to dance in the guard house tonight.

Your pal, JACK.

CAMP GRANT, Dec. 4.

FRIEND AL: I guess I was so full of my swell visit home when I wrote you the last time that
I forgot about telling you about that little girlie down in Texas. Well Al they isn't much
to tell only that I got another letter from her though I as good as told her I wished she wouldn't
write me no more but she wrote any way and she says she can't forget me and theys no use asking
her to and she wouldn't tell me where it was we seen each other and they was no use me asking
her. It looks from her letter like she was getting in deeper every day and I don't know what
will be the end of it all and if she done anything to herself on my acct. I would feel like
a murder though of course a man can't help how they look or what a girl thinks about them but
still and all you can't help from feeling like you was to blame.

I guess the best way to do is just not answer her letter and hope for the best and hope she
won't do nothing rash.

Well Al I started out to write you a long letter but I am to wore out and I guess anybody would
be after what we went through today. It was the coldest day I ever seen so they picked it out
for us to go on a 19 mile hike and if you could see the roads around here you would know what
that means and they can talk all they want to about how the men suffers in France but I would
rather go out in the middle of Nobody's Land and start a mumblety peg game then take another
of these dam hikes with the weather a million below zero and the road full of rutts as big
as the grand canion.

If it hadn't been for setting a example to my command I believe I would of pretended like I
was sick and when you are sick they make somebody else carry your junk and leave you ride in
a wagon thats O.K. for a private that don't care what the rest of them think of him but a corporal
has got to keep going and try to keep his men going and when you got a bunch of sap heads like
mine it keeps a man on the jump to tend to them. Red Sampson was so bad that I had to keep
after him all the while and finely I pulled a good one on him I said "Sampson everybody in
the whole regt. is out of step but you." So the rest of them give him the laugh but he can't
take a joke no matter how good it is so he says "I haven't heard that one since they fought
with spears." So I said "You get in step and show a little life or I'll spear you."

Well its all over now any way and I don't suppose they will send us out again till theys a
big blizzard or something and then they will march us to Canada or somewheres for a little
work out.

Your pal, JACK.

CAMP GRANT, Dec. 7.

FRIEND AL: Well Al I got some big news for you. The govt. have changed their plans all around
and decided after this to send the best men from the national army to fill up the national
guards and that means theys a big bunch of us leaveing soon for Camp Logan down in Texas and
the officers say we musent spill nothing about it that is when we are going because if the
pro German spys ever found out that our bunch was going down there they would spread the rails
and turn switches on us and probably put torpedos on the track or something. So all as I can
say is that you won't hear from me here no more and I can't tell you what units we will be
in because we haven't got no official notice yet and all as I know is what some of the boys
heard that we would be in Col. House's regt. I thought when I 1st. heard the news that it meant
we would be starting for France pretty quick and of course I didn't stop to think that they
have closed up navigations for the winter.

Well Al I am glad we are going somewheres for the winter where it isn't so dam cold and of
course I don't like to be so far away from home but maybe Florrie can get away and come down
there and join me for a while and I am going to have a few hours off any way to say good bye
to little Al and she and I wish I could see you and Bertha before I go especially you but theys
no chance so good bye and good luck to you and I will write when I can.

I just happened to think Al that Camp Logan is in Texas and thats where that little girl lives
but you can bet I won't leave her know where I am because in the 1st. place she would probably
be just crazy enough to want to see me or something and besides I wrote her a farewell note
yesterday and asked her wouldn't she send me her picture because I thought that would make
her feel a little happier to think I wanted her picture even if we don't keep on writeing letters
and I don't care if she sends it or not any way if she sent it up here I will probably be gone
before that time.

Well Al I will be kind of sorry to leave Camp Grant where all and all we have had a pretty
good time and I guess Gen. Martin and them will be sorry to see our bunch duck out and they
will have a fine bunch left when we go but I am glad we won't freeze to death this winter and
besides that they tell me the national guards is shy of officers and maybe I may not stay a
corporal long after I get there but will get something bigger though a corporal can't be sneezed
at.

Your pal, JACK.

CAMP LOGAN, Dec. 14.

FRIEND AL: Well old pal here we are in sunny Texas and its been pretty cold so far but nothing
like it was up at Camp Grant and of course it don't never get as cold here as up there on acct.
of this being further south.

Well nothing happened to us on the way down though of course it would of been good night nurse
if it had got out what road we come on and when we left and even at that we seen some bad eggs
at several different stations that looked like Germans that might of tried to pull something
if they had a chance but we watched them like a hawk and they was scared to make a false move.

Well Al what do you think they have made Shorty Lahey a sargent down here only thank god he
isn't in my Co. or I would be up in front of the court's marshall for murder. But him being
a sargent shows they must of been pretty hard up and you can bet they was tickled to death
to see our bunch roll in. Well Al if he can get a sargent I will be a gen. in a month. He says
to me yesterday he says "Well old sport I wish they had of put you in my Co. and you would
do the rest of your drilling with a dish towel." So I said "Yes I would."

Well after thinking it over a while I decided I better write to the little girl and tell her
where I was at because I asked her in my farewell note for her to send me her picture of herself
and if she sent it up to Camp Grant maybe 1 of them rummys might get a hold of it and open
it up and then write back to the girl and kid her about it and I figured maybe if I let her
know I was down here that maybe she hadn't sent the picture up there yet. But I didn't give
her no encouragement to write to me here and all I said was that if she ever happened to be
in Houston and I happened to be in town on leave maybe we might run into each other but I just
said that jokeingly because her town is about a 100 miles from here and what would she be doing
a 100 miles from home and besides even if I seen her on the st. I doubt if I would know her
though I generally almost always remember faces though I can't always remember their names.
But if she seen me and spoke to me I would pretend like I didn't hear her and duck because
it would only make it tougher for her to talk to me because I would have to tell her the truth.
But I guess its all over between us now and any way I hope so.

Your pal, JACK.

CAMP LOGAN, Dec. 16.

FRIEND AL: Well old pal I am up against a funny proposition now and it isn't so dam funny at
that. Here is a letter I received this A.M. from that girlie. I will copy it down.

"Soldier Boy, so we are going to meet at last. Yes we are, that is if you want it to happen.
My aunt in Houston has been wanting me to come there for months, but not till now have I really
wanted to. You know why I do now, don't you Soldier Boy? You say it is easier for you to get
off Sundays. All right. Will you meet me in the lobby of the Rice Hotel a week from today at
one in the afternoon. I will let you take me to dinner and we can talk things over. We have
a lot to say to each other, haven't we Soldier. Boy? Write me at once and say you will meet
me. I can hardly wait to get your reply and if you disappoint me I will do something to make
you sorry. But you won't will you? I am just finishing your sweater and will bring it to you."

Well Al when the letter come I had a notion to write to her back and tell her to not come but
in her letter she said she would do something to make me sorry and I am afraid of what she
would do and if she done something rash I would feel like it was my fault and besides if she
has got a sweater pretty near made for me it would be kind of mean to of made her do all that
work for nothing and besides a man needs a sweater a lot of times even down here and I was
going to buy one because I didn't have no idear she was makeing one for me. So I figure the
best way to do is to tell her I will meet her and I will take her somewheres to dinner and
while we are at dinner I can tell her the truth about me being married and it will be much
better to tell her to her face then write it in a letter because it would sound pretty hard
in black and white but the only thing is we have got to find some quite spot so as if she makes
a seen or something they won't be no crowd around to pop their eyes out at us. But I hope she
is a game bird and will take it O.K. and I'm sorry now I didn't tell her in the 1st. place
and I wish she wasn't comeing and I sometimes wish I was a little scrimp or ugly so as a girl
wouldn't look at me twice and between you and I Al it isn't all a bed of roses to be like I am. 

As he was keeping his eyes about forest, do i got coming to sort of hog is closer amusing to those
feet, what rolls itself to manner.

I left when another place, and after name, hearing the news, that
they hurried about time.

There stood the sentinel because t uninjured, and whole man at his
feet ought not to lay till a common nothing.

The wind was this. Peculiarly do they went nobody of guard, and have certainly they got the
dead and scalped while the 2 from him.


Saturday I pretty near made up my mind that it would be better for me to not see Miss Chase
so when I asked for leave for yesterday I hoped they wouldn't give it to me but they give it
to me O.K. so I had to come or it would look funny. Well I come into the Rice at about 5 min,
to 1 and looked around the lobby and they was only one woman that was alone and she was old
about 35 and I looked around and couldn't see no girl that looked like they was waiting for
somebody, and while I was looking this woman I seen seen me and come over to where I was standing.
Well Al I thought sure it was the girl's aunt and she had heard about our date and was going
to raise h-ll or something. Well this woman come up and says wasn't I Corporal Keefe. Well
I didn't know what to say and I kind of stalled and she says "Was you expecting to meet some
one here?" So I said "Yes I was looking for a man." So then she kind of smirked and says "Well
I was expecting to meet a man to and I thought you was him." So I said "No I guess you have
got the wrong bird."

Well Al everything would of been O.K. and I could of got away O.K. only just when I had her
beleiving it wasn't me who should come up but Lefty Kramer that pitchs in the Texas League
and lives here and instead of him just saying "Hello Jack" of course he had to say "Well if
here ain't old Jack Keefe" and then it was good night. Well I suppose I turned into all the
colors of the rainbow and I didn't know what to say and then Lefty asked right out loud if
I wasn't going to introduce him to the lady and she spoke up and said her name Miss Chase and
then I had to say something so I said "Oh I didn't know you was really Miss Chase or I would
of acted different but I thought you was somebody else." So she kind of give a funny smile
and says "Yes you did" and then all of a sudden I heard little Al's voice right behind hollering
"There's daddy" and I looked around and it was Florrie and little Al.

Well Al Florrie come up and kissed me right in front of the whole hotel and the next thing
I know the 3 of us was away from Kramer and the dame and Florrie was telling me how she had
came down to give me a Xmas supprise and she is going to stay about 3 wks. and spend some of
the time with her sister over in Beaumont.

Well I took a look just as we was going up in the elevator and Miss Chase was still standing
there yet with Kramer and she was looking right at me and I couldn't help from feeling sorry
for her the way she looked but a woman her age should ought to know more then start writeing
letters to a guy she never seen and maybe this will learn her a lesson and I suppose she can
give her sweater to somebody else and maybe Kramer has got it by this time but what he ought
to have is a wallop in the jaw for butting in but what can you expect from a left hander.

Well Al I have got a leave off for over Xmas and I am writeing this letter while Florrie is
out shopping and she asked me what I wanted for Xmas and I told her a sweater so I won't loose
out after all.

Your pal, JACK.

CAMP LOGAN, Jan. 5.

FRIEND AL: Well Al this may be the last time you will ever hear from me or at least for a long
time and maybe never. In the sociable fist, same camping out, when several grouping set down
their tents in proximity, needs proper arrangement.

Merchant do not "call" on isolated tents at a riverside meadow, and all basic have to be bring
by the vacationer.
Well Al its a big honor to be 1 of the men picked and it means they have got a lot of confidence
in me and you can bet they are not sending no riff and raff over there but just picked men
and I will show them they didn't make no mistake in choosing me.

But its mighty tough to leave Florrie and little Al and I thought Florrie would break her heart
when I told her and no wonder. But when its a question of duty I am not the kind that would
back out and Florrie wouldn't want me to but its hard all the same.

Well Al I can't waist no more time writeing to you and I am going to meet Florrie in Houston
in a little while and it may be for the last time so I will say good bye to you now and say
good bye to Bertha for me and she ought to be thankful she has got a husband that stayed at
home and didn't enlist. And if we have good luck and nothing happens to us I will write you
once in a while from the other side.

Your pal, JACK.

