In his accent Cinq-Mars had nothing of the brusqueness which clothed his words.  His voice
was conciliatory, his look gentle, amiable, affectionate, his air as tranquil as it was determined.
There was no indication of the slightest effort at control.  De Thou remarked it, and sighed.

Alighting from the carriage with him, De Thou followed him up the great staircase of the Louvre.
When they entered the Queen's apartment, announced by two ushers dressed in black and bearing
ebony rods, she was seated at her toilette.  This was a table of black wood, inlaid with tortoiseshell,
mother-of-pearl, and brass, in an infinity of designs of very bad taste, but which give to
all furniture an air of grandeur which we still admire in it.  A mirror, rounded at the top,
which the ladies of our time would consider small and insignificant, stood in the middle of
the table, whereon were scattered jewels and necklaces.

Anne of Austria, seated before it in a large armchair of crimson velvet, with long gold fringe,
was as motionless and grave as on her throne, while Dona Stefania and Madame de Motteville,
on either side, lightly touched her beautiful blond hair with a comb, as if finishing the Queen's
coiffure, which, however, was already perfectly arranged and decorated with pearls.  Her long
tresses, though light, were exquisitely glossy, manifesting that to the touch they must be
fine and soft as silk.  The daylight fell without a shade upon her forehead, which had no reason
to dread the test, itself reflecting an almost equal light from its surpassing fairness, which
the Queen was pleased thus to display.  Her blue eyes, blended with green, were large and regular,
and her vermilion mouth had that underlip of the princesses of Austria, somewhat prominent
and slightly cleft, in the form of a cherry, which may still be marked in all the female portraits
of this time, whose painters seemed to have aimed at imitating the Queen's mouth, in order
to please the women of her suite, whose desire was, no doubt, to resemble her.

The black dress then adopted by the court, and of which the form was even fixed by an edict,
set off the ivory of her arms, bare to the elbow, and ornamented with a profusion of lace,
which flowed from her loose sleeves. Large pearls hung in her ears and from her girdle.  Such
was the appearance of the Queen at this moment.  At her feet, upon two velvet cushions, a boy
of four years old was playing with a little cannon, which he was assiduously breaking in pieces.
This was the Dauphin, afterward Louis XIV.  The Duchesse Marie de Mantua was seated on her
right hand upon a stool.  The Princesse de Guemenee, the Duchesse de Chevreuse, and Mademoiselle
de Montbazon, Mesdemoiselles de Guise, de Rohan, and de Vendome, all beautiful and brilliant
with youth, were behind her, standing.  In the recess of a window, Monsieur, his hat under
his arm, was talking in a low voice with a man, stout, with a red face and a steady and daring
eye.  This was the Duc de Bouillon.  An officer about twenty-five years of age, well-formed,
and of agreeable presence, had just given several papers to the Prince, which the Duc de Bouillon
appeared to be explaining to him.

De Thou, after having saluted the Queen, who said a few words to him, approached the Princesse
de Guemenee, and conversed with her in an undertone, with an air of affectionate intimacy,
but all the while intent upon his friend's interest.  Secretly trembling lest he should have
confided his destiny to a being less worthy of him than he wished, he examined the Princess
Marie with the scrupulous attention, the scrutinizing eye of a mother examining the woman whom
her son has selected for his bride--for he thought that Marie could not be altogether a stranger
to the enterprise of Cinq-Mars.  He saw with dissatisfaction that her dress, which was extremely
elegant, appeared to inspire her with more vanity than became her on such an occasion.  She
was incessantly rearranging upon her forehead and her hair the rubies which ornamented her
head, and which scarcely equalled the brilliancy and animated color of her complexion.  She
looked frequently at Cinq-Mars; but it was rather the look of coquetry than that of love, and
her eyes often glanced toward the mirror on the toilette, in which she watched the symmetry
of her beauty.  These observations of the counsellor began to persuade him that he was mistaken
in suspecting her to be the aim of Cinq-Mars, especially when he saw that she seemed to have
a pleasure in sitting at the Queen's side, while the duchesses stood behind her, and that she
often looked haughtily at them.

"In that heart of nineteen," said he, "love, were there love, would reign alone and above all
to-day.  It is not she!"

The Queen made an almost imperceptible movement of the head to Madame de Guemenee.  After the
two friends had spoken a moment with each person present, and at this sign, all the ladies,
except Marie de Mantua, making profound courtesies, quitted the apartment without speaking,
as if by previous arrangement.  The Queen, then herself turning her chair, said to Monsieur:

"My brother, I beg you will come and sit down by me.  We will consult upon what I have already
told you.  The Princesse Marie will not be in the way.  I begged her to remain.  We have no
interruption to fear."

The Queen seemed more at ease in her manner and language; and no longer preserving her severe
and ceremonious immobility, she signed to the other persons present to approach her.

Gaston d'Orleans, somewhat alarmed at this solemn opening, came carelessly, sat down on her
right hand, and said with a half-smile and a negligent air, playing with his ruff and the chain
of the Saint Esprit which hung from his neck:

"I think, Madame, that we shall fatigue the ears of so young a personage by a long conference.
She would rather hear us speak of dances, and of marriage, of an elector, or of the King of
Poland, for example."

Marie assumed a disdainful air; Cinq-Mars frowned.

"Pardon me," replied the Queen, looking at her; "I assure you the politics of the present time
interest her much.  Do not seek to escape us, my brother," added she, smiling.  "I have you
to-day!  It is the least we can do to listen to Monsieur de Bouillon."

The latter approached, holding by the hand the young officer of whom we have spoken.

"I must first," said he, "present to your Majesty the Baron de Beauvau, who has just arrived
from Spain."

"From Spain?"  said the Queen, with emotion.  "There is courage in that; you have seen my family?"

"He will speak to you of them, and of the Count-Duke of Olivares.  As to courage, it is not
the first time he has shown it.  He commanded the cuirassiers of the Comte de Soissons."

"How?  so young, sir!  You must be fond of political wars."

"On the contrary, your Majesty will pardon me," replied he, "for I served with the princes
of the peace."

Anne of Austria smiled at this jeu-de-mot.  The Duc de Bouillon, seizing the moment to bring
forward the grand question he had in view, quitted Cinq-Mars, to whom he had just given his
hand with an air of the most zealous friendship, and approaching the Queen with him, "It is
miraculous, Madame," said he, "that this period still contains in its bosom some noble characters,
such as these;" and he pointed to the master of the horse, to young Beauvau, and to De Thou.
"It is only in them that we can place our hope for the future.  Such men are indeed very rare
now, for the great leveller has swung a long scythe over France."

"Is it of Time you speak," said the Queen, "or of a real personage?"

"Too real, too living, too long living, Madame!"  replied the Duke, becoming more animated;
"but his measureless ambition, his colossal selfishness can no longer be endured.  All those
who have noble hearts are indignant at this yoke; and at this moment, more than ever, we see
misfortunes threatening us in the future.  It must be said, Madame--yes, it is no longer time
to blind ourselves to the truth, or to conceal it-- the King's illness is serious.  The moment
for thinking and resolving has arrived, for the time to act is not far distant."

The severe and abrupt tone of M. de Bouillon did not surprise Anne of Austria; but she had
always seen him more calm, and was, therefore, somewhat alarmed by the disquietude he betrayed.
Quitting accordingly the tone of pleasantry which she had at first adopted, she said:

"How!  what fear you, and what would you do?"

"I fear nothing for myself, Madame, for the army of Italy or Sedan will always secure my safety;
but I fear for you, and perhaps for the princes, your sons."

"For my children, Monsieur le Duc, for the sons of France?  Do you hear him, my brother, and
do you not appear astonished?"

The Queen was deeply agitated.

"No, Madame," said Gaston d'Orleans, calmly; "you know that I am accustomed to persecution.
I am prepared to expect anything from that man.  He is master; we must be resigned."

"He master!"  exclaimed the Queen.  "And from whom does he derive his powers, if not from the
King?  And after the King, what hand will sustain him?  Can you tell me?  Who will prevent
him from again returning to nothing?  Will it be you or I?"

"It will be himself," interrupted M. de Bouillon, "for he seeks to be named regent; and I know
that at this moment he contemplates taking your children from you, and requiring the King to
confide them to his care."

"Take them from me!"  cried the mother, involuntarily seizing the Dauphin, and taking him in
her arms.

The child, standing between the Queen's knees, looked at the men who surrounded him with a
gravity very singular for his age, and, seeing his mother in tears, placed his hand upon the
little sword he wore.

"Ah, Monseigneur," said the Duc de Bouillon, bending half down to address to him what he intended
for the Princess, "it is not against us that you must draw your sword, but against him who
is undermining your throne. He prepares an empire for you, no doubt.  You will have an absolute
sceptre; but he has scattered the fasces which indicated it.  Those fasces were your ancient
nobility, whom he has decimated.  When you are king, you will be a great king.  I foresee it;
but you will have subjects only, and no friends, for friendship exists only in independence
and a kind of equality which takes its rise in force.  Your ancestors had their peers; you
will not have yours.  May God aid you then, Monseigneur, for man may not do it without institutions!
Be great; but above all, around you, a great man, let there be others as strong, so that if
the one stumbles, the whole monarchy may not fall."

The Duc de Bouillon had a warmth of expression and a confidence of manner which captivated
those who heard him.  His valor, his keen perception in the field, the profundity of his political
views, his knowledge of the affairs of Europe, his reflective and decided character, all rendered
him one of the most capable and imposing men of his time-the only one, indeed, whom the Cardinal-Duc
really feared.  The Queen always listened to him with confidence, and allowed him to acquire
a sort of empire over her.  She was now more deeply moved than ever.

"Ah, would to God," she exclaimed, "that my son's mind was ripe for your counsels, and his
arm strong enough to profit by them!  Until that time, however, I will listen, I will act for
him.  It is I who should be, and it is I who shall be, regent.  I will not resign this right
save with life.  If we must make war, we will make it; for I will do everything but submit
to the shame and terror of yielding up the future Louis XIV to this crowned subject.  Yes,"
she went on, coloring and closely pressing the young Dauphin's arm, "yes, my brother, and you
gentlemen, counsel me! Speak!  how do we stand?  Must I depart?  Speak openly.  As a woman,
as a wife, I could have wept over so mournful a position; but now see, as a mother, I do not
weep.  I am ready to give you orders if it is necessary."

Never had Anne of Austria looked so beautiful as at this moment; and the enthusiasm she manifested
electrified all those present, who needed but a word from her mouth to speak.  The Duc de Bouillon
cast a glance at Monsieur, which decided him.

"Ma foi!"  said he, with deliberation, "if you give orders, my sister, I will be the captain
of your guards, on my honor, for I too am weary of the vexations occasioned me by this knave.
He continues to persecute me, seeks to break off my marriage, and still keeps my friends in
the Bastille, or has them assassinated from time to time; and besides, I am indignant," said
he, recollecting himself and assuming a more solemn air, "I am indignant at the misery of the
people."

"My brother," returned the Princess, energetically, "I take you at your word, for with you,
one must do so; and I hope that together we shall be strong enough for the purpose.  Do only
as Monsieur le Comte de Soissons did, but survive your victory.  Side with me, as you did with
Monsieur de Montmorency, but leap the ditch."

Gaston felt the point of this.  He called to mind the well-known incident when the unfortunate
rebel of Castelnaudary leaped almost alone a large ditch, and found on the other side seventeen
wounds, a prison, and death in the sight of Monsieur, who remained motionless with his army.
In the rapidity of the Queen's enunciation he had not time to examine whether she had employed
this expression proverbially or with a direct reference; but at all events, he decided not
to notice it, and was indeed prevented from doing so by the Queen, who continued, looking at
Cinq-Mars:

"But, above all, no panic-terror!  Let us know exactly where we are, Monsieur le Grand.  You
have just left the King.  Is there fear with you?"

D'Effiat had not ceased to observe Marie de Mantua, whose expressive countenance exhibited
to him all her ideas far more rapidly and more surely than words.  He read there the desire
that he should speak--the desire that he should confirm the Prince and the Queen.  An impatient
movement of her foot conveyed to him her will that the thing should be accomplished, the conspiracy
arranged.  His face became pale and more pensive; he pondered for a moment, realizing that
his destiny was contained in that hour.  De Thou looked at him and trembled, for he knew him
well.  He would fain have said one word to him, only one word; but Cinq-Mars had already raised
his head.  He spoke:

"I do not think, Madame, that the King is so ill as you suppose.  God will long preserve to
us this Prince.  I hope so; I am even sure of it. He suffers, it is true, suffers much; but
it is his soul more peculiarly that is sick, and of an evil which nothing can cure--of an evil
which one would not wish to one's greatest enemy, and which would gain him the pity of the
whole world if it were known.  The end of his misery--that is to say, of his life--will not
be granted him for a long time.  His languor is entirely moral.  There is in his heart a great
revolution going on; he would accomplish it, and can not.

"The King has felt for many long years growing within him the seeds of a just hatred against
a man to whom he thinks he owes gratitude, and it is this internal combat between his natural
goodness and his anger that devours him.  Every year that has passed has deposited at his feet,
on one side, the great works of this man, and on the other, his crimes. It is the last which
now weigh down the balance.  The King sees them and is indignant; he would punish, but all
at once he stops and weeps.  If you could witness him thus, Madame, you would pity him.  I
have seen him seize the pen which was to sign his exile, dip it into the ink with a bold hand,
and use it--for what? --to congratulate him on some recent success.  He at once applauds himself
for his goodness as a Christian, curses himself for his weakness as a sovereign judge, despises
himself as a king.  He seeks refuge in prayer, and plunges into meditation upon the future;
then he rises terrified because he has seen in thought the tortures which this man merits,
and how deeply no one knows better than he.  You should hear him in these moments accuse himself
of criminal weakness, and exclaim that he himself should be punished for not having known how
to punish.  One would say that there are spirits which order him to strike, for his arms are
raised as he sleeps.  In a word, Madame, the storm murmurs in his heart, but burns none but
himself.  The thunderbolts are chained."

"Well, then, let us loose them!"  exclaimed the Duc de Bouillon.

"He who touches them may die of the contact," said Monsieur.

"But what a noble devotion!"  cried the Queen.

"How I should admire the hero!"  said Marie, in a half-whisper.

"I will do it," answered Cinq-Mars.

"We will do it," said M. de Thou, in his ear.

Young Beauvau had approached the Duc de Bouillon.

"Monsieur," said he, "do you forget what follows?"

"No, 'pardieu'!  I do not forget it," replied the latter, in a low voice; then, addressing
the Queen, "Madame," said he, "accept the offer of Monsieur le Grand.  He is more in a position
to sway the King than either you or I; but hold yourself prepared, for the Cardinal is too
wary to be caught sleeping.  I do not believe in his illness.  I have no faith in the silence
and immobility of which he has sought to persuade us these two years past.  I would not believe
in his death even, unless I had myself thrown his head into the sea, like that of the giant
in Ariosto. Hold yourself ready to meet all contingencies, and let us, meanwhile, hasten our
operations.  I have shown my plans to Monsieur just now; I will give you a summary of them.
I offer you Sedan, Madame, for yourself, and for Messeigneurs, your sons.  The army of Italy
is mine; I will recall it if necessary.  Monsieur le Grand is master of half the camp of Perpignan.
All the old Huguenots of La Rochelle and the South are ready to come to him at the first nod.
All has been organized for a year past, by my care, to meet events."

"I should not hesitate," said the Queen, "to place myself in your hands, to save my children,
if any misfortune should happen to the King.  But in this general plan you forget Paris."

"It is ours on every side; the people by the archbishop, without his suspecting it, and by
Monsieur de Beaufort, who is its king; the troops by your guards and those of Monsieur, who
shall be chief in command, if he please."

"I!  I! oh, that positively can not be!  I have not enough people, and I must have a retreat
stronger than Sedan," said Gaston.

"It suffices for the Queen," replied M. de Bouillon.

"Ah, that may be!  but my sister does not risk so much as a man who draws the sword.  Do you
know that these are bold measures you propose?"

"What, even if we have the King on our side?"  asked Anne of Austria.

"Yes, Madame, yes; we do not know how long that may last.  We must make ourselves sure; and
I do nothing without the treaty with Spain."

"Do nothing, then," said the Queen, coloring deeply; "for certainly I will never hear that
spoken of."

"And yet, Madame, it were more prudent, and Monsieur is right," said the Duc de Bouillon; "for
the Count-Duke of San Lucra offers us seventeen thousand men, tried troops, and five hundred
thousand crowns in ready money."

"What!"  exclaimed the Queen, with astonishment, "have you dared to proceed so far without
my consent? already treaties with foreigners!"

"Foreigners, my sister!  could we imagine that a princess of Spain would use that word?"  said
Gaston.

Anne of Austria rose, taking the Dauphin by the hand; and, leaning upon Marie: "Yes, sir,"
she said, "I am a Spaniard; but I am the grand- daughter of Charles V, and I know that a queen's
country is where her throne is.  I leave you, gentlemen; proceed without me.  I know nothing
of the matter for the future."

She advanced some steps, but seeing Marie pale and bathed in tears, she returned.

"I will, however, solemnly promise you inviolable secrecy; but nothing more."

All were mentally disconcerted, except the Duc de Bouillon, who, not willing to lose the advantages
he had gained, said to the Queen, bowing respectfully:

"We are grateful for this promise, Madame, and we ask no more, persuaded that after the first
success you will be entirely with us."

Not wishing to engage in a war of words, the Queen courtesied somewhat less coldly, and quitted
the apartment with Marie, who cast upon Cinq- Mars one of those looks which comprehend at once
all the emotions of the soul.  He seemed to read in her beautiful eyes the eternal and mournful
devotion of a woman who has given herself up forever; and he felt that if he had once thought
of withdrawing from his enterprise, he should now have considered himself the basest of men.

As soon as the two princesses had disappeared, "There, there!  I told you so, Bouillon, you
offended the Queen," said Monsieur; "you went too far. You can not certainly accuse me of having
been hesitating this morning. I have, on the contrary, shown more resolution than I ought to
have done."

"I am full of joy and gratitude toward her Majesty," said M. de Bouillon, with a triumphant
air; "we are sure of the future.  What will you do now, Monsieur de Cinq-Mars?"

"I have told you, Monsieur; I draw not back, whatever the consequences. I will see the King;
I will run every risk to obtain his assent."

"And the treaty with Spain?"

"Yes, I--"

De Thou seized Cinq-Mars by the arm, and, advancing suddenly, said, with a solemn air:

"We have decided that it shall be only signed after the interview with the King; for should
his Majesty's just severity toward the Cardinal dispense with it, we have thought it better
not to expose ourselves to the discovery of so dangerous a treaty."

M. de Bouillon frowned.

"If I did not know Monsieur de Thou," said he, "I should have regarded this as a defection;
but from him--"

"Monsieur," replied the counsellor, "I think I may engage myself, on my honor, to do all that
Monsieur le Grand does; we are inseparable."

Cinq-Mars looked at his friend, and was astonished to see upon his mild countenance the expression
of sombre despair; he was so struck with it that he had not the courage to gainsay him.

"He is right, gentlemen," he said with a cold but kindly smile; "the King will perhaps spare
us much trouble.  We may do good things with him.  For the rest, Monseigneur, and you, Monsieur
le Duc," he added with immovable firmness, "fear not that I shall ever draw back.  I have burned
all the bridges behind me.  I must advance; the Cardinal's power shall fall, or my head."

"It is strange, very strange!"  said Monsieur; "I see that every one here is farther advanced
in the conspiracy than I imagined."

"Not so, Monsieur," said the Duc de Bouillon; "we prepared only that which you might please
to accept.  Observe that there is nothing in writing.  You have but to speak, and nothing exists
or ever has existed; according to your order, the whole thing shall be a dream or a volcano."

