Not wishing to offend such a character, I gave my companions the wink and we followed him into
the bar-room with the full determination of making a friend of him. After all had done the
sociable act--of course gentlemen only drink for sociability sake--I took him to one side purposely
to draw him into a little private chat, and it was not long before his self-conceit had the
better of him. He ordered grub--as all meals were called in the West in those days--for four,
stating he was in need of a bite himself. Before the meal had been finished, I became convinced
that the old fellow had a tender spot in his makeup, like all tough outlaws, and, if one had
tact enough to discover it, he might have great influence over him; otherwise, we would be
obliged to sleep with both eyes open and each with his right hand on the butt of his revolver.

THE AMERICAN INDIAN

The following day was passed in taking in the town and Indian Reservation, which was but a
short distance from the place. There we came, for the first time, face to face with the American
Indian, the sole owner of this vast and fertile continent before the paleface landed to dispute
his right of ownership. Foot by foot they had been driven from East, North and South, until
at that time they were nearly all west of the great Missouri River, or River of Mud, as the
Indians called it. At the suggestion of our landlord, we took with us an interpreter, a few
trinkets, and something to moisten the old chief's lips. Upon our arrival we were duly presented
to the chief, who invited us to sit on the ground upon fur robes made from the pelts of different
animals, including the antelope and the buffalo, or American bison, the monarch of the plains,
and each one of us in turn took a pull at the pipe of peace. We then made a tour of their lodges.
When we returned, the chief called his squaws to whom we presented our gifts, which pleased
them greatly. To the old chief I handed a bottle of Atchison's best. As he grasped it, a smile
stole over his ugly face, and with a healthy grunt and a broad grin, he handed me back the
empty bottle. Indians love liquor better than they do their squaws. In return he gave me a
buffalo robe which later became of great service. After taking another pull at the pipe of
peace, we thanked him and took our departure, having no desire to be present when Atchison's
invigorator commenced to invigorate his Indian brain.

The impression made by that visit to a supposedly friendly tribe, who at that time had a peace
treaty with the government, was not one of confidence. The noble red men, as they were called
by the Eastern philanthropist, were as treacherous to the whites as an ocean squall to the
navigator. No pen or picture has or can fully describe the cruelty of their nature.

It was dusk when we reached our tavern, and we found it filled with a lawless band of degenerates,
as repulsive as any that ever invested Western plains or canyons of the Rockies. We were at
once surrounded and by a display of their shooting irons, forced to join in their beastly carnival.
It was not for long, however, for a sign from the landlord brought me to his side. He whispered,
"When I let my guns loose you fellows pike for the loft." There were no stairs. No sooner had
he pulled his life-takers than all the others followed his example. Bullets flew in every direction.
Clouds of smoke filled the room, but we had ducked and scaled the ladder to the loft and safety.
Sleep was out of the question until the early hours of the morning, for the night was made
hideous by blasphemous language, howls of pain and the ring of revolvers. The first call for
grub found us ready and much in need of a nerve quieter, which the old sinner laughingly supplied;
but no word from him of the night's bloody work. Taking me to one side, he said, "Take no offence,
but repeat nothing you hear or see in these parts, and strictly mind your own business and
a fellow like you will get into no trouble." I thanked him and followed his advice to the letter
during my entire Western life.

THE FIRST CAMP

After that night's experience, we decided to pay our bill and become acclimated to camp life.
We had taken with us a tent, blankets and three toy pistols, the latter entirely useless in
that country, which proved how ignorant we were of Western ways. We were not long in finding
a suitable camping spot a mile from the town and the same distance from the many corrals of
the great Western freighters and pilgrims, as the immigrants were called. For miles we could
see those immense, white covered prairie schooners in corral formation. Hundreds of oxen and
mules were quietly grazing under the watchful eyes of their herders in saddle. It was certainly
a novel sight to the tenderfoot.

We soon had our tent up and leaving one of our number in charge the other two went to town
for the necessary camp utensils and grub. Immediately on our return supper was prepared and
the novelty enjoyed. After a three days' rest I started out to make the rounds of the corrals
in search of a driver's berth. All freighters had a wagon boss and an assistant who rightfully
had the reputation of being tyrants when on the trail, using tact and discretion when in camp.
A revolver settled all disputes. On approaching them they treated me as well as their rough
natures would permit; but I did not take kindly to any of them. They all told me that I was
undersized, and too young to stand the dangers and hardships of a trip. I returned to camp
much disappointed but not discouraged.

The following morning we proceeded to the large warehouses on the river front, where all Western
freighters were to be found. In those days all emigrants and oxen and mule trains with freight
going to the far Western Territories would start from either Council Bluffs, Iowa, Leavenworth,
Kansas, Atchison or St. Joe, Missouri; Atchison being the nearest point, a large majority embarked
from there. The freight was brought up the Missouri River in flat-bottom steam-boats, propelled
by a large wheel at the stern, and unloaded on the bank of the river. The perishable goods
were placed in the large warehouses but the unperishable were covered with tarpaulin and left
where unloaded. They were then transferred to large white covered prairie schooners and shipped
to their different points of destination in trains of from twenty-five to one hundred wagons.
The rate for freighting depended on the condition of the Indians and ran from ten cents per
pound up to enormous charges in some cases.

SECURING PASSAGE

After making application to several of the freighters and receiving the same reply as from
the wagon bosses, we went a short distance down the river to the last of the warehouses. On
our approach we discovered a genuine bullwhacker--as all ox drivers were called in that day--in
conversation with a short, stout-built fellow with red hair and whiskers to match. The moment
he became disengaged I inquired if he was a freighter. He said that he was and that he wanted
more men. His name was Whitehead, just the opposite to the color of his hair, and as I stepped
up to him I wondered what kind of a disposition the combination made--whitehead, redhead. I
at once made application for a position for the three of us. In rather a disagreeable voice,
he asked me if I could drive. I replied that I could.

"Can you handle a gun and revolver?"

"Certainly."

"How many trips have you made?"

"None."

"Then how the devil do you know you can drive?"

"For the simple reason I am more than anxious to learn, and so are my friends." Then I made
a clean breast of the position we were in and urged him to give us a chance.

"Well," he said, "You seem to be a determined little cuss; are the rest of the same timber?"

I told him they were of the same wood but not of the same tree.

After thinking the matter over, he said, "I'll tell you what I will do. I will hire the big
fellow for driver at one hundred and twenty-five dollars per month, and the little fellow for
night herder at one hundred dollars a month, and yourself for cook for one mess of twenty-five
men and for driver in case of sickness or death, at one hundred and twenty-five dollars a month."

We then gave him our names, and, in return, he gave us a note to Mr. Perry, his wagon boss.
We at once started for his corral, two miles distant, where we found the gentleman. He asked
where our traps were. We told him, and also assured him that we would report for duty the following
morning.

When we reached our camp we were completely tired out, but passed the remainder of the day
in celebrating our success, and feeling assured that if we escaped the scalping knife of the
Indians, we would reach Denver in due time, and, when paid off have a nice sum in dollars.

The following morning we had an early breakfast, broke camp, and reported at the corral where
each was presented with two revolvers and a repeating carbine. I was then taken over to the
mess wagon which was liberally supplied with bacon (in the rough), flour, beans, cargum (or
sour molasses), coffee, salt, pepper, baking-powder and dried apples; the latter we were allowed
three times a week for dessert. There was also a skillet for baking bread, which resembled
a covered spider without a handle.

When the assistant cook, with whom I was favored, had started the fire and sufficient coals
had accumulated, he would rake them out and place the skillet on them. As soon as the dough
was prepared, a chunk was cut off and put in the skillet, the lid placed and covered with coals;
in fifteen minutes we would have as nice a looking loaf of bread as one could wish to see,
browned to a tempting color. When eaten warm, it was very palatable, but when cold, only bullwhackers
could digest it. An old-fashioned iron kettle in which to stew the beans and boil the dried
apples, or vice versa, coffee pots, frying pans, tin plates, cups, iron knives and forks, spoons
and a combination dish and bread-pan made up the remainder of the cooking and eating utensils.

EXPERIENCES AMONG THE BUSHWHACKERS

It seemed that my assistant was exempt from bringing water, which often had to be carried in
kegs for two miles, so he fried the meat and washed the dishes. I soon caught on to the cooking,
and doing my best to please everyone, soon became aware of the fact that I had many friends
among the toughest individuals on earth, the professional bullwhackers, who, according to their
own minds, were very important personages. Their good qualities were few, and consisted of
being a sure shot, and expert at lariat and whip-throwing. They would bet a tenderfoot a small
sum that they could at a distance of twelve feet, abstract a small piece from his trousers
without disturbing the flesh. They could do this trick nine times out of ten. The whips consisted
of a hickory stalk two feet long, a lash twelve feet in length with buck or antelope skin snapper
nine inches in length. The stalk was held in the left hand, the lash coiled with the right
hand and index finger of the left. It was then whirled several times around the head, letting
it shoot straight out and bringing it back with a quick jerk. It would strike wherever aimed,
raising a dead-head ox nearly off its hind quarters and cutting through the hide and into the
flesh. When thrown into space, it would make a report nearly as loud as a revolver. A lariat
is a fifty foot line with a running noose at one end and made from the hide of various animals.
It is coiled up and carried on the pommel of the saddle. When used for capturing animals or
large game, it is whirled several times around the head when the horse is on a dead run and
fired at the head of the victim. A professional can place the loop nearly every time.

During the third day of corral life, the steers arrived, and the hard work, mixed with much
fun, commenced. A corral is about the shape of an egg, closed by the wagons at one end, and
left open to admit the cattle at the other, then closed by chains.

MEANS OF TRANSPORTATION

Our wheelers and leaders were docile, old freighters, the others were long-horned, wild Texas
steers. All of the freighters had their oxen branded for identification, using the first letter
of his last name for the purpose. The brand was made from iron and was about four inches in
height, attached to a rod three feet in length. A rope was placed over the horns of the animal
and his head was drawn tight to the hub of a heavy laden prairie schooner. A bullwhacker, tightly
grasping the tail of the beast, would twist him to attention. The man with the branding implement
heated to a white heat would quickly jab the ox on the hind quarter, burning through hair and
hide and into the flesh. Then, after applying a solution of salt and water, he was left to
recover as best he could. The brand would remain in evidence more than a year unless the steer
was captured by cattle thieves, who possessed a secret for growing the hair again in six months.
When the branding was completed, each man was given twelve steers to break to yoke, and it
was three long weeks before we were in shape to proceed on our long Western tramp. The cattle
were driven in each morning at break of day, the same time as when on trail. Each man with
a yoke on his left shoulder and a bow in his right hand would go groping about in almost total
darkness to select his twelve steers. When they were all found he would yoke them and hitch
them to the wagons; the wheelers to the tongue, the leaders in front and the balance to section
chains. For days we were obliged to lariat the wildest of them and draw their heads to the
hubs of the heavily laden wagons, before being able to adjust the yoke, many times receiving
a gentle reminder from the hind hoof of one of the critters to be more careful. I went into
the fray with the full determination of learning the profession of driver and at the tenth
day I had broken in a team of extras.

ON THE SICK LIST

I was then taken sick and for two long weeks kept my bed of earth under the mess wagon, with
no mother or doctor, and two thousand miles from home. You may be able to imagine my feelings,
but I doubt it. At the end of the second week Mr. Perry came and told me they would make a
start the next afternoon and, in his judgment, he thought it unwise to think of making the
trip in my present condition. I knew my condition was serious, but I would rather have died
on the road, among those outlaws, than to have been left in Atchison among entire strangers.
They were all very kind and did what they could for me, but were powerless to check my fast
failing strength. I had wasted to less than one hundred pounds in weight and was too weak to
even lift an arm.

I pleaded with Mr. Perry for some time and finally overcame his objections. "Well," he said,
"Charlie, I will fix a bed in my wagon and you can bunk with me." I objected, for I did not
wish to discommode him in the least and told him a good bed could be fixed in the mess wagon.
"As you will," he said, and had the boys get some straw which together with the Buffalo robe
made a very comfortable bed when not on the move.

A THUNDER STORM

