Why is it so easy for us missionaries to think that we know how to do the work of the Lord
better than any mission field convert, especially if that one has been led to the Lord by us?
Doing the Lord's work is not fundamentally a matter of knowledge, training, or even experience.
It may be true that I have had years of Bible training, and the little old woman with whom
I am going out visiting has never been to any sort of school a day in her life; that I have
traveled around the world, and she has never been thirty miles from the place where she was
born; that I have heard the Gospel and studied the Bible all my life, and she has known it
for only a few short years. I was born again twenty-five or thirty years ago; she has been
the Lord's own for three or four years. Suppose we go to call on someone who is ill or in trouble.
I get out a poster, and carefully explain the Gospel. The woman we are visiting listens to
me with her mouth open; and after twenty minutes of as clear and simple preaching as I am capable
of, when I am just getting to my climax, she lays her hand on my sleeve and asks earnestly,
"Did you make this dress yourself?"

My heart sinks to my boots. Is that what she has been thinking about all this time? Is that
why she fixed her eyes on me so intently? What's the use anyway?

Then the old lady who is with me starts in. She can't even tell clearly the bare outlines of
the life of our Saviour; but she turns to the woman, one whose life and thoughts she knows
(wasn't she just like her before she was saved?), and says, "Look at me! I used to have this
trouble and that trouble and the other trouble, and then I came to Jesus, and asked Him to
forgive my sins. He did it and took all my troubles away, and gave me peace and joy in my heart
as I never dreamed of. Come to Him and you can have it too!"

When the one on whom we are calling says suddenly, "I'm going to believe too," it is far more
likely to be the result of my companion's testimony than of my fine Gospel message!

Are you a missionary volunteer? When you get to the mission field, remember that a simple,
earnest testimony from one who is "just like we are" will usually bring far more in the way
of results than your own best efforts. Don't think that the missionary is the only one who
can bring souls to the Lord. The one who has just been saved may easily become a more effective
witness than you yourself.

No matter how uneducated and degraded the group, there are always in it one or more who are
leaders. No matter how poor and ignorant he is, the one who has been truly saved, and knows
that he is saved, is always capable of witnessing to others of his own group. No matter how
poor a little group of Christians is, if they continue in prayer and patient effort they will
surely be able to provide for themselves a meeting house that is as good as their own homes,
or a little better. The Church of God is not dependent upon Gothic arches and stained glass
windows, upon ministers in Geneva gowns and upon robed choirs. It is not dependent upon material
resources, or this world's learning. None of these things are essentials. The only things that
are essentials to the Church of Christ are found in Christ and in the penitent and forgiven
soul, no matter what his race or culture or economic status. The Church of Christ can function
on any level at which men for whom Christ died are living.

