Smollett, however, made his impressionable Lydia Melford sum up the attractions of Vauxhall
for the young lady of the period. It is a tender picture she draws, with the wherry in which
she made her journey, "so light and slender that we looked like so many fairies sailing in
a nutshell." There was a rude awakening at the landing-place, where the rough and ready hangers-on
of the place rushed into the water to drag the boat ashore; but that momentary disturbance
was forgotten when Miss Lydia entered the resort.

"Imagine to yourself, my dear Letty," she wrote, "a spacious garden, part laid out in delightful
walks, bounded with high hedges and trees, and paved with gravel; part exhibiting a wonderful
assemblage of the most picturesque and striking objects, pavilions, lodges, groves, grottos,
lawns, temples, and cascades; porticos, colonnades, and rotundas; adorned with pillars, statues,
and paintings; the whole illuminated with an infinite number of lamps, disposed in different
figures of suns, stars, and constellations; the place crowded with the gayest company, ranging
through those blissful shades, or supping in different lodges, on cold collations, enlivened
with mirth, freedom, and good humour." Lydia has a word, too, for the musical charms of the
place, and seems pleased to have heard a celebrated vocalist despite the fact that her singing
made her head ache through excess of pleasure. All this was enhanced, no doubt, by the presence
of that Mr. Barton, the country gentleman of good fortune, who was so "particular" in his attentions,

Perhaps the best proof of the place Vauxhall occupied in popular esteem is afforded by the
number of occasions on which the garden was chosen as the scene of a national event. This was
notably the case in 1813, when a pretentious festival took place in the grounds in celebration
of the victory achieved at Vittoria by the Allies under Wellington. An elaborate scheme of
decoration, both interior and exterior, was a striking feature of the occasion, while to accommodate
the numerous dinner guests a large temporary saloon became necessary. This was constructed
among the trees, the trunks of which were adorned with the flags of the Allies and other trophies.
The Duke of York presided over the banquet, and the company included, in addition to Wellington,
most of the royal and other notables of the day. Dinner, whereat the inevitable ham appeared
but probably not so finely cut, lasted from five to nearly nine o'clock, at which hour the
ladies and general guests of the evening began to arrive. Vauxhall outdid itself in illuminations
that night. And the extra attractions included a transparency of the King, a mammoth picture
of Wellington, a supply of rockets that rose to a "superior height," and innumerable bands,
some of which discoursed music from the forest part of the garden, presenting some idea of
"soldiers in a campaign regaling and reposing themselves under the shade." In fact, the whole
occasion was so unusual that the electrified reporter of the Annual Register was at his wit's
end to know what to praise most. For a moment he was overpowered by the exalted rank of the
leading personages, and then fascinated by the charms and costumes of the ladies, only to find
fresh subjects for further adjectives in the fineness of the weather, the blaze of lights that
seemed to create an artificial day, and the unity of sentiment and disposition that pervaded
all alike.

At this date, of course, the Tyers of Fielding's eulogy had been dead some years. He was succeeded
by his two sons, one of whom, Tom, was a favourite with Dr. Johnson. At the Vittoria fete the
resort was still controlled by the Tyers family, but it passed out of their possession in 1821,
and had many owners before the end came in 1859.

Another Amelia, however, was to visit Vauxhall before its gates were closed for the last time,--the
Amelia beloved of all readers of "Vanity Fair." Naturally, she does not go alone. Thackeray
had too much affection for that gentle creature to make her face such an ordeal. No, there
was the careless, high-spirited George Osborne, and the ever-faithful Dobbin, and the slow-witted
Jos Sedley, and the scheming Rebecca Sharp. That Vauxhall episode was to play a pregnant part
in the destiny of Becky. Such an auspicious occasion would surely lead to a proposal from the
nearly-captured Jos. For a time it seemed as though such might be the case. Becky and her corpulent
knight lost themselves in one of those famous Dark Walks, and the situation began to develop
in tenderness and sentiment. Jos was so elated that he told Becky his favourite Indian stories
for the sixth time, giving an opening for the lady's "Horn I should like to see India!" But
at that critical moment the bell rang for the fireworks, and at the same time tolled the knell
of Becky's chances of becoming Mrs. Jos Sedley. For the fireworks somehow created a thirst,
and the bowl of rack punch for which Jos called, and which he was left to consume, as the young
ladies did not drink it and Osborne did not like it, speedily worked its disastrous effects.
In short, as we all know, Jos made a fool of himself, and when he came to himself the following
morning and saw himself as Osborne wished he should, all his tender passion for Becky evaporated
once and for all.

Perhaps these visitors to Vauxhall who never had an existence are more real to us to-day than
all the countless thousands of men and women who really trod its gravel walks. But the real
and the unreal alike are of the past, a memory for the fancy to play with as is that of Vauxhall
itself.

CHAPTER II.

RANELAGH.

During the latter half of the eighteenth century Vauxhall had a serious rival in Ranelagh.
No doubt the success of the former was the cause of the latter. It may have been, too, that
as the gardens at Vauxhall became more and more a popular resort without distinction of class,
the need was felt of a rendezvous which should be a little more select.

No doubt exists as to how Ranelagh came by its name. Toward the end of the seventeenth century
the Earl of Ranelagh built himself a house at Chelsea, and surrounded it with gardens which
were voted the best in England for their size. This peer, who was Paymaster-General of the
Forces, seems to have taken keen pleasure in house-planning and the laying out of grounds.
Among the manuscripts of the Marquis of Ormonde are many letters written by him to the bearer
of that title in the early eighteenth century, which show that he assumed the oversight of
building operations at Ormonde's London house at that time. The minute attention he gave to
all kinds of detail's proves that he had gained experience by the building of his own house
not many years before.

But Ranelagh house and gardens had a short history as the residence and pleasance of a nobleman.
The earl died in 1712, and in 1730 it became necessary to secure an act of Parliament to vest
his property at Chelsea in trustees. Three years later a sale took place, and the house and
larger portion of the grounds were purchased by persons named Swift and Timbrell. It was at
this stage the project of establishing a rival to Vauxhall first took shape. The idea seems
to have originated with James Lacy, that patriotic patentee of Drury Lane theatre who raised
a band of two hundred men at the time of the Jacobite Rebellion of 1745. He it was, also, who
afterwards became a partner with David Garrick. But, however successful he was to prove as
an organizer of volunteers, Lacy was not to shine as the founder of a rival to Vauxhall. For
some unexplained reason he abandoned his share in the Ranelagh project, and eventually the
matter was taken in hand by Sir Thomas Robinson, who soon secured sufficient financial support
to carry the plan to a successful issue. Sir Thomas provided a considerable share of the capital
of sixteen thousand pounds himself, and took a leading part in the management of Ranelagh till
his death in 1777. His gigantic figure and cheery manners earned for him the titles of Ranelagh's
Maypole and Gardand of Delights.

As the gardens were already laid out in a handsome manner, the chief matter requiring attention
was the planning and erection of a suitable main building. Hence the erection of the famous
Rotunda, the architectural credit of which is given to one William Jones. But that honour is
disputed. It is claimed that no less a person than Henry VIII was responsible for the idea
on which the Rotunda was based. That king, according to one historian, caused a great banqueting-house
to be erected, eight hundred feet in compass, after the manner of a theatre. "And in the midst
of the same banqueting-house," continued the historian, "was set up a great pillar of timber,
made of eight great masts, bound together with iron bands for to hold them together: for it
was a hundred and thirty-four feet in length, and cost six pounds thirteen shillings and fourpence
to set it upright. The banqueting-house was covered over with canvas, fastened with ropes and
iron as fast as might be devised; and within the said house was painted the heavens, with stars,
sun, moon, and clouds, with divers other things made above men's heads. And above the high
pillar of timber that stood upright in the midst, was made stages of timber for organs and
other instruments to stand upon, and men to play on them." Such, it is asserted, was the model
the architect of the Rotunda at Ranelagh had in view.

And really there appears to be good ground for laying this charge of constructive plagiarism
against the memory of William Jones. It is true the building was on a scale somewhat smaller
than that erected at the order of Henry VIII, for its circumference was limited to four hundred
and fifty feet, while its greatest diameter was but one hundred and eighty-five feet. But the
planning of the interior of the Rotunda bore a suspicious likeness to the royal banqueting-house.
The central portion of the building was a square erection consisting of pillars and arches,
and seems to have been a direct copy of those eight great masts. Nor did the parallel end there.
In the Rotunda at Ranelagh as in the king's banqueting-house, this central construction was
designed as the place for the musicians. And even the ceiling was something of a copy, for
that of the Rotunda was divided into panels, in each of which was painted a celestial figure
on a sky-blue ground.

On the general idea of the banqueting-house, however, Mr. Jones made a number of improvements.
The entrances to the Rotunda were four in number, corresponding with the points of the compass,
each consisting of a portico designed after the manner of a triumphal arch. The interior of
the building presented, save for its central erection, the aspect of a modern opera-house.
Around the entire wall was a circle of boxes, divided by wainscoting, and each decorated with
a "droll painting" and hung with a candle-lamp. Above these was another tier of boxes, similarly
fitted, each of them, fifty-two in number, having accommodation for seven or eight persons.
Higher up was a circle of sixty windows. Although the building itself was constructed of wood,
it could boast of a plaster floor, which was covered with matting. Scattered over that floor
were numerous tables covered with red baize whereon refreshments were served. Such was the
general arrangement of the Rotunda, but one alteration had speedily to be made. It was quickly
discovered that the central erection was ill adapted for the use of the orchestra, and consequently
it was transformed into four fireplaces, which were desirable locations in the cold months
of the year.

Perhaps no surprise need be felt that Ranelagh was not ready when it was opened. What public
resort ever has been? The consequence was that there were at least two opening ceremonies.
The first took the form of a public breakfast on April 5th, 1742, and was followed by other
early repasts of a like nature. One of these, seventeen days later, provided Horace Walpole
with the subject of the first of his many descriptions of the place. About a month later another
inaugural ceremony took place, which Walpole duly reported. Vauxhall is a little better, for
the garden is pleasanter, and one goes by water." In time, however, Walpole was converted to
the superior attractions of the new resort. Two years later he confessed that he went every
night to Ranelagh, that it had totally beaten Vauxhall, and that it had the patronage of everybody
who was anybody. Lord Chesterfield bad fallen so much in love with the place that he had ordered
all his letters to be directed thither.

Many red-letter days are set down in the history of Ranelagh during the sixty years of its
existence, but its historians are agreed that the most famous of the entertainments given there
was the Venetian Masquerade in honour of the Peace of Aix-la-Chapelle on April 26th, 1749.
For the most spirited narrative of that festival, recourse must--be had to the letters of Walpole.

But there was another side to all this. Vauxhall evidently looked on with envious eyes, and
those who were interested in the welfare of that resort managed to engineer opposition to the
Venetian fete in the form of satirical prints and letterpress. Perhaps they did more. At any
rate it is a significant fact that shortly afterwards the justices of Middlesex were somehow
put in motion, and made such representations to the authorities at Ranelagh that they were
obliged to give an undertaking not to indulge in any more public masques. This, however, did
not prevent the subscription carnival in celebration of a royal birthday in May, 1750, when
there was "much good company but more bad company," the members of which were "dressed or undress'd"
as they thought fit.

Ranelagh was evidently an acquired taste. It has been seen that Walpole did not take to the
place at first, but afterwards became one of its most enthusiastic admirers. And there was
a famous friend of Walpole who passed through the same experience. This was the poet Gray,
who, three years after the resort was opened declared that he had no intention of following
the crowd to Ranelagh.

"I have never been at Ranelagh Gardens since they were opened," is his confession to a friend.
"They do not succeed: people see it once, or twice, and so they go to Vauxhall."

"Well, but is it not a very great design, very new, finely lighted?"

"Well, yes, aye, very fine truly, so they yawn and go to Vauxhall, and then it's too hot, and
then it's too cold, and here's a wind and there's a damp."

Perhaps it is something of a surprise to find the author of the "Elegy" interested in public
gardens at all, but given such an interest it would have been thought that Ranelagh was more
to his taste than Vauxhall. And so it proved in the end. Like his Eton friend Walpole, he became
a convert and so hearty an admirer of the Chelsea resort that he spent many evenings there
in the August of 1746.

