An African juggler followed, who brought in a large flat basket covered with a red cloth, and
having placed it in the centre of the arena, he took from his turban a curious reed pipe, and
blew through it.  In a few moments the cloth began to move, and as the pipe grew shriller and
shriller two green and gold snakes put out their strange wedge-shaped heads and rose slowly
up, swaying to and fro with the music as a plant sways in the water.  The children, however,
were rather frightened at their spotted hoods and quick darting tongues, and were much more
pleased when the juggler made a tiny orange-tree grow out of the sand and bear pretty white
blossoms and clusters of real fruit; and when he took the fan of the little daughter of the
Marquess de Las-Torres, and changed it into a blue bird that flew all round the pavilion and
sang, their delight and amazement knew no bounds.  The solemn minuet, too, performed by the
dancing boys from the church of Nuestra Senora Del Pilar, was charming.  The Infanta had never
before seen this wonderful ceremony which takes place every year at Maytime in front of the
high altar of the Virgin, and in her honour; and indeed none of the royal family of Spain had
entered the great cathedral of Saragossa since a mad priest, supposed by many to have been
in the pay of Elizabeth of England, had tried to administer a poisoned wafer to the Prince
of the Asturias.  So she had known only by hearsay of 'Our Lady's Dance,' as it was called,
and it certainly was a beautiful sight.  The boys wore old-fashioned court dresses of white
velvet, and their curious three-cornered hats were fringed with silver and surmounted with
huge plumes of ostrich feathers, the dazzling whiteness of their costumes, as they moved about
in the sunlight, being still more accentuated by their swarthy faces and long black hair. 
Everybody was fascinated by the grave dignity with which they moved through the intricate figures
of the dance, and by the elaborate grace of their slow gestures, and stately bows, and when
they had finished their performance and doffed their great plumed hats to the Infanta, she
acknowledged their reverence with much courtesy, and made a vow that she would send a large
wax candle to the shrine of Our Lady of Pilar in return for the pleasure that she had given her.

A troop of handsome Egyptians--as the gipsies were termed in those days--then advanced into
the arena, and sitting down cross-legs, in a circle, began to play softly upon their zithers,
moving their bodies to the tune, and humming, almost below their breath, a low dreamy air.
When they caught sight of Don Pedro they scowled at him, and some of them looked terrified,
for only a few weeks before he had had two of their tribe hanged for sorcery in the market-
place at Seville, but the pretty Infanta charmed them as she leaned back peeping over her fan
with her great blue eyes, and they felt sure that one so lovely as she was could never be cruel
to anybody. So they played on very gently and just touching the cords of the zithers with their
long pointed nails, and their heads began to nod as though they were falling asleep.  Suddenly,
with a cry so shrill that all the children were startled and Don Pedro's hand clutched at the
agate pommel of his dagger, they leapt to their feet and whirled madly round the enclosure
beating their tambourines, and chaunting some wild love-song in their strange guttural language.
Then at another signal they all flung themselves again to the ground and lay there quite still,
the dull strumming of the zithers being the only sound that broke the silence.  After that
they had done this several times, they disappeared for a moment and came back leading a brown
shaggy bear by a chain, and carrying on their shoulders some little Barbary apes.