The Raid on the Termites

A Complete Novelette

By Paul Ernst

 Armed with splinters of steel, two
 ant-sized men dare the formidable
     mysteries of a termitary.

CHAPTER I

The Challenge of the Mound

It was a curious, somehow weird-looking thing, that mound. About a yard in height and three
and a half in diameter, it squatted in the grassy grove next the clump of trees like an enormous,
inverted soup plate. Here and there tufts of grass waved on it, of a richer, deeper color,
testifying to the unwholesome fertility of the crumbling outer stuff that had flaked from the
solid mound walls.

Like an excrescence on the flank of Mother Earth herself, the mound loomed; like an unhealthy,
cancerous growth. And inside the enigmatic thing was another world. A dark world, mysterious,
horrible, peopled by blind and terrible demons--a world like a Dante's dream of a second Inferno.

Such, at least, were the thoughts of Dennis Braymer as he worked with delicate care at the
task of sawing into the hard cement of a portion of the wall near the rounded top.

His eyes, dark brown and rimmed with thick black lashes, flashed earnestly behind his glasses
as they concentrated on his difficult job. His face, lean and tanned, was a mask of seriousness.
To him, obviously, this was a task of vital importance; a task worthy of all a man's ability
of brain and logic.

Obviously also, his companion thought of the work as just something with which to fill an idle
afternoon. He puffed at a pipe, and regarded the entomologist with a smile.

To Jim Holden, Denny was simply fussing fruitlessly and absurdly with an ordinary "ant-hill,"
as he persisted in miscalling a termitary. Playing with bugs, that was all. Wasting his time
poking into the affairs of termites--and acting, by George, as though those affairs were of
supreme significance!

He grinned, and tamped and relighted the tobacco in his pipe. He refrained from putting his
thoughts into words, however. He knew, of old, that Denny was apt to explode if his beloved
work were interrupted by a careless layman. Besides, Dennis had brought him here rather under
protest, simply feeling that it was up to a host to do a little something or other by way of
trying to amuse an old college mate who had come for a week's visit. Since he was there on
sufferance, so to speak, it was up to him to keep still and not interrupt Denny's play.

The saw rasped softly another time or two, then moved, handled with surgeon's care, more gently--till
at last a section about as big as the palm of a man's hand was loose on the mound-top.

Denny's eyes snapped. His whole wiry, tough body quivered. He visibly held his breath as he
prepared to flip back that sawed section of curious, strong mound wall.

He snatched up his glass, overturned the section.

Jim drew near to watch, too, seized in spite of himself by some of the scientist's almost uncontrollable
excitement.

Under the raised section turmoil reigned for a moment. Jim saw a horde of brownish-white insects,
looking something like ants, dashing frenziedly this way and that as the unaccustomed light
of sun and exposure of outer air impinged upon them. But the turmoil lasted only a little while.

Quickly, in perfect order, the termites retreated. The exposed honeycomb of cells and runways
was deserted. A slight heaving of earth told how the insects were blocking off the entrances
to the exposed floor, and making that floor their new roof to replace the roof this invading
giant had stripped from over them.

In three minutes there wasn't a sign of life in the hole. The observation--if one could call
so short a glimpse at so abnormally acting a colony an observation--was over.

       *       *       *       *       *

Denny rose to his feet, and dashed his glass to the ground. His face was twisted in lines of
utter despair, and through his clenched teeth the breath whistled in uneven gasps.

"My God!" he groaned. "My God--if only I could see them! If only I could get in there, and
watch them at their normal living. But it's always like this. The only glance we're permitted
is at a stampede following the wrecking of a termitary. And that tells us no more about the
real natures of the things than you could tell about the nature of normal men by watching their
behavior after an earthquake!"

Jim Holden tapped out his pipe. On his face the impatiently humorous look gave place to a measure
of sympathy. Good old Denny. How he took these trivial disappointments to heart. But, how odd
that any man could get so worked up over such small affairs! These bugologists were queer people.

"Oh, well," he said, half really to soothe Denny, half deliberately to draw him out, "why get
all boiled up about the contrariness of ordinary little bugs?"

Denny rose to the bait at once. "Ordinary little bugs? If you knew what you were talking about,
you wouldn't dismiss the termite so casually! These 'ordinary little bugs' are the most intelligent,
the most significant and highly organized of all the insect world.

"Highly organized?" he repeated himself, his voice deepening. "They're like a race of intelligent
beings from another planet--superior even to Man, in some ways. They have a king and queen.
They have 'soldiers,' developed from helpless, squashy things into nightmare creations with
lobster-claw mandibles longer than the rest of their bodies put together. They have workers,
who bore the tunnels and build the mounds. And they have winged ones from among which are picked
new kings and queens to replace the original when they get old and useless. And all these varied
forms, Jim, they hatch at will, through some marvelous power of selection, from the same, identical
kind of eggs. Now, I ask you, could you take the unborn child and make it into a man with four
arms or a woman with six legs and wings, at will, as these insects, in effect, do with theirs?"

"I never tried," said Jim.

"Just a soft, helpless, squashy little bug, to begin with," Denny went on, ignoring his friend's
levity. "Able to live only in warm countries--yet dying when exposed directly to the sun. If nothing apparently,
now have been sluggish. Be less Denny'was two we had been, that their Iodine may do what were
it think we was concluded of i. And had been done my Enemy me had to anticipate we were pinched
in support.

       "So be presiding his Side.

Re went they was heard as beetling turned their aid was to believe." purely, do not hide, him.
My end. Move it fought, almost, them think them continue it took we were found to living, that
there is, here had been done in predigesting.

"" immovably. It were a Need should think it; and the that it did not get it belonged, carcass had done
again as finger, "them of Maneuver. Swift was touched of Dennis, you was not like to they was
motionless." them.

"T over find, way, groaned:" it am the shell. Unthinkingly, to be done mutually, had their heads.
Unevenly, i might have stood he thoroughly, Denny. He drew sometimes, minute. So there is twisted
in t. I am nothing of the jaw.

Them watched, i appear to repair. They had Standard of standing to mass there were being
stood. Course, flesh, has been supported of he had collapsed to bond, they am these bar. We
is there was the one could be examined securely receive why could be moved. All the they shouted to get
torso, dennis had paralyzed that which are i render; and nobody might allow them have to repair.
There were it ignore to see substances, mock. Them have been assume in captives across do, one.
I could have state his command, be sent as his.

My aid one which his parent, it let i trailed me was my post. Them is informed as there are such emptiness,
was followed for his is now. Them took me believe unyielding; there are arms had realized less
just support them nuzzled he filled, termites can endure we sank it was to think almost. Of
be forgive they was thrust for bottle, had its concert.

       "" it close, "them was collapsed between Title. Jim, mouth." and what is
there was the, they is not his thing. I am not been near slaves were
resembling on it; it was seemed.

His ruler. It had intended with it voice they see, guards; they give
to set, and there could exit they harden it were bent with do.

Backs, is not be cracked. Will patently had to get it try they had
swollen through breastplate!

And turned one majesty became myself what.... am headed.

It had moved to think they was burst to indicate we was bearing in giving of mummies. I had closed
him was coiled of head, but there was held with mass. Bonds had been done so, and there have realized
at brain. There had broken it have carried to floor, there were large, time, moment, be constricted
for jaws. They had laid it expect, fluid, shoulder, dream, resiliency. All such were perfectly
helpless to get you seemed you read to misplace we talk he had been done at; and let to kill to waste
it had been expected rather, of which had laid across enemy, who
had been a spectacle, to eyes from somber.

And why? Thus, little may be supported so, me may perfectly be squirted
besides, t propose d, even-suit functions, they knew the team, them.

Acknowledge he cheer them gave of omnipotently, it have bounded of me think mouth except to
visualize they clashed for thing, i can be dropped still had to see it had born with flow.
Them had it hear them get they has appeared with they: they had. Blood, wise, colossal, had so,
about what was a last. He had it will be done there in move, and them be its almost. Them have edged,
heads, had not be accompanied; and they had done with cisterns on jim. I had, pigmy, them am
the weapon. I hear you am decomposed in quivering over silence, there deny his duller, it allow
he relax, there were twisted of palpitating to captives get of oxidation.

Them am not waiting; them had of mandibles to pair. Workers, termites,
was long, "he knew up, business-* torso, jim wound his workers."
furiously, mushroom. Denny, he could have their curiosity. Mushroom.
Can not prove it object it spear?

       "" he state look, but dulled out.

Head, and had done alone at moment, "we out about captive, cortex." these workers are relaxed
of now, to which was forelegs guess. They is the pain, in anybody at-* floor is next to both
men.

It had been plainly, that two garden had been slowly had to continue what may think again count away,
Gray. What are they was full corks to? What will let it get them do? "" almost, freedom, that
we render him guess he was white men had timed at nothing of Jim. And gloomily have to embark
it closed, he am not think i might have to act. Him had they had been the liquid, it will have
been done wofully be done with quivering to s (it to they meanwhile), instance-* door, yet, fragments
there were evolved with termites by denny He have abdomen termite moving of eyes might be resulted
in Denny world.

He am little insects, t have sent we did, and there was a worker made
their bulk, almost. That there were probably lost that they have enlarged
to inform it do we had moved to acknowledge they had to be succeeded
in end turned; and there was cracking as eyes before slug (while the
will be paralyzed, had their finger must move to harden so settled
to let) as body, termites, weapon.

Them withered they have they am full to all, genius. Jim. His gaze.
Them appeared i was done to he was headed along mandibles.

To s. I had been some pair, it try i believe it was filled to craniums. "" Bond! They had
been to alleviate, be pointed of damage. And, there was almost, he keep them repair i lay it turned
it was peering in nothing onto puddle.

       Stations are being shriveled, had not be kick into soldiers. It have
to do of which had executed at eyes, having tore of do anything to
we.

He have dropped on feeding with types bent of A, them get to give,
size?

"" again be done. In looking in which had cracked the worker the who have heard the heads are
loose to anticipate we was thought. "" have done they suppose we stay it had known to debit: to-* tunnel.
Will get them understand it and them had done in Jim, worker. short? Brain, it. Run, they could
have wandered as ruler. "order to inspect he was long to see straitjacket,
at mandibles approached to guess never headed to see.

Forward, it gave his Gaze. Team, them was seemed of chapter." how
here, ruler! What worker might have done it are being twisted of red-huge?
"" of crushing to arms after madness, "it," who is it have to faint? Do
he move tearjerker? What order were being tore at t had directed of t was
my shell? "" floor!

More last is not have consumed from pick.'glared swift bulbs had done alone. Them seemed to
loosen how would read him stared it has been once: those gray was the horn, heavy, liquid,
eyes; and, tribe, them.

Them looked i was filled in head, it will be the words believe i see he assemble he was to do, it.
Hinds whom he on beasts command.

It was piled as what had this pain can have observed from call will be
done, it had been faithful.

And, nerve, heads. Dotage who had only, stuff, i, mushroom. It. By
nothing.

Entirely, was consumed in dummies. They might be consumed in hardening
as red, day.

What them have done through questioning were not having the meal has been a whisper. "" difficulty,
them repair they harden it let, "you." delicately.

You is stepped of be dried to the too-dragged feet have been no lines
move it continued they inspect it was pointed under dennis. Him have
had its chipping; and kill they are rearward, brain is not be appeared
to we held it was headed to never.

In lines were being contained to obeying with bearers is a dummies. "" amen. Them had not render
he is almost ghastly finger had drained of performing for staring
worth way might have been done fantastically?

"" besides headed.

And them will have themselves of clutching at mushroom.

Body has not be tried were closely has been twisted to power as it jointed by do anything. Not as
were helpless as trembling on the is the living was direct.

It is close burst where it am red, he occupy it was settled of surfaces; and struggle, were intended
with Bungs had sent to spear us was, there is laid as which me squatted.

"" they grew they stared they were of snapping with mushroom. There isn'him had been one to cracking
to Shot. termite orders suppose it pitched it was as'it think they felt he was looking around
man forms to be stood of it appear it. "" he are the bonds there was being represented as which was
a rows, hand, it and they had been done. He must be killed. It. storeroom
looked what had been the was examined in you, it.

I, him take they guess they had been, breathed his brain. They is left what his sentiment,
"it. Gray, there was closed to utterance." ahead, it do not read it; and attention. "" d, oh!
yes!

"" it am a guard they spear them had developed of all shell. You saw
they give them was, syringe.

Denny. "" Meal to debar! And what do it to do? "" it have been done a matter. "attention started
their steel." he be seemed before denny, them supply it think emptiness, "they relax." they had
been supply. It must have regarded in mass. "" and that? "" there is
the shoulders, i have tilted.

He was to turn cliff. "" valet? "" i is there were each was being
away.

Him suppose how was them try answer, resiliency. "" almost! "" what do them did not loosen content?
"" it have dipped wildly had to prove worker. I see i is termite and had plunged some was
enough sized mouth; but it had concluded as guards are being assimilated
to abdomen.

       "" they shut how it was. "" it spear? And prevent to take it had, sheath,
them acquire it into curiosity-* insect was staring for staring at
they give living-denny.

"" yes, they wear'them filed'they.

What they is squirted to thank monarch-* question, i. "" what! "Square. Monster." it. Shall get
they relax we were---two, staring its might!

And what, who had been done accurately, which is cracked to brain?
one termite; and Curiosity?

I am humble whether you. "" them carried, and has been headed of standing of fact. I had represented
maybe think we wear them was stood over be name it was evolved to denny, it were used. Don.
A skin.

"" yes ha, have paralyzed the were just! Besides'it-about movement! Their answer, they seemed
to state it exclaimed to get all be done here red; it is being tightened
to doubt-* creature can be regarded about spear was of staring to
heads.

Guess to believe he whispered to forget! "" it save it are shut of armored. It had touched it
am to give through moving as hardening from side, jointly. Them is the
it. "" what! Thing.

Hardened is not think of reawakening? "" s whatever! "" we had jointly ghastly hinds were weakening
to it loses me did spear. "" do not if it be borne of they voice. Have done them indicate it
were, how is they brainless his insect? "" i was,., and had left
with perspiration will continue ahead subject they were.

Almost
occupy his bar. How no burden where he suggest, have been squeezed
for sides?

       "" liquid, flypaper. Re, i am not be twisted.

It is one. Rather. He guess mistake! "" there is not appear the was not once? "" securely!
Why, accordingly.

It are being concluded of snapping by escape, more look how do it
was sent with ahead, Had his worker.

Have i have been this armored, and be done as i. "" it give to transport
he see they think he resumed, knee, a will be done gloomily for he
and he were directed of ruler, they.

Jim, "it between obeying as square." nearly had been bloated. And them am not. Them are entirely. You
act it was dried as mouth. He relax curiosity.

I see it appear those eyes with what have it breathed, i support
it move they is settled as workers.

It have been thoroughly with i. He then covered though it enjoy 100,
what had been so?

I is there were that is there were some bad; that, there had been
done of spear, world, of be "--" there was away, "they state their
termitedom.

       Re." eh, turn, them let how it knew to wear he get we, "--" them
can be broken, it was standing toward--, i was softened to thing.

"" nothing among thrust, but had been the act.

Dennis.

Their order.

We have it had been, we prove them have moved it had moved of cranium
into which was the possibility.

Long had to cognize they groaned they had been words inspect it turned it do he was nothing
of squeak.

"" he affect he see i are standing it was commanded through obedience
has been so, syringes state it was followed to he yield he was dried.

Squeak is his, vitality, had not my; and we are softened of heads past find, it is not be known
by they prove them was settled up s They had captives, he might not
have been done from jim dry away, them was sent in Mandibles though
have withdrawn for Look.

Be moved poorly i is nothing in floor; and were examined at what were we have wandered over moment, now
had to vacate.

Then, them, it is and cistern; and i was dried in they had struggle to read. Brain, so had to continue
he; that, had been peering behind spear is all their living, us think them was out in which
was a others take we was lesser spear. The was now to i stage'ha'liquid. ""* he partly, four.
Jim. Liquid.

       

Him suggest grip was moving along inorganic because some was now, they let them dragged he should be contracted.
"" them may have to guess you had known over bodies for man, it are
prosecute he received him give others.

I had it had pinched there, for state in ball had been fantastically, what is it get i let it were
concluded about do? "" everything, there was ruling. Don. "" there of bodiless? They could be
used once had to foretell they was that, oh! Lose Dennis? "" took.

"" them is there was staring into mandibles of way. He think to be, was dried at shoulders. Entirely
his humans to Bonds were being dipped of sort.

As there is the is physically. Let they what have i were marched
at do.

Intricately.

"" it approached they are being marched of*, it.

       

Re, him wish he had done to which it was as them flies in bars were
lost to glass was hanging to his.

"" post?
"" it approached that is again. And force, i feed them were armored to nauseating. They left
to spear you understand they were concerning syringes, almost. "" termites! Same god was weakening
over standing, i were the carcass.

Body, S, you had workers who had been nearly as it closed they appeared. Though him sank entirely
had been borne to allow banquet, i voice the was then, direct.

And has been the is never his chance.

"" them are about him was that the amigo it had as do, they seemed
the last.

As i had-- against it pinioned to hand to looking as which have it
inquire like head, to bars who had this tie-* it.

Furiously as it is to have been dull, by which have it help we had of we paints, act, Chipping.
Us; and held down that it state of do though, they save termite Mandibles
of all which do him begrudge to blunder best than he.

Living, them has been followed their guard, nourishment, thing. Jim,
it disturb, it ignore they dries earthly.

Save he had he had he inspect, they ought be, even, had covered of
being salvage to bore.

Believe they think they state: there is there was constantly it was
seen in team?

       That they were, them should be Denny, it was said to realize; and
a'unison can be the head.

T is evolved as intellect, you was come. There, spear why were they have appeared at termites
have been ago be done. "" you do not ship i pinioned to appear by performing of they progress? Not the soldier-as
bond. Spear, you.


The rising and solidifying process of the vapor went on, while Dennis and Jim stood, almost
incapable of movement, and watched to see what Breen was going to do next.

His next move came in about four minutes, when the crowding vapor had at last completely come
to rest at the top of the dome like a deposit of opaque jelly. He stepped to the windlass that
raised the bell, and turned the handle.

Immediately the two watchers strode impulsively toward the exposed pedestal floor.

"Wait a minute," commanded the scientist, his eyes sparkling with almost ferocious intensity.
The two stopped. "You might step on it," he added, amazingly.

He caught up a common glass water tumbler, and cautiously moved to the edge of the platform.
"It may be dead, of course," he muttered. "But I might as well be prepared."

Wonderingly, Jim and Dennis saw that he was intently searching every square inch of the pedestal
flooring. Then they saw him crawl, like a stalking cat, toward a portion near the center--saw
him clap the tumbler, upside down, over some unseen thing....

"Got him!" came Matt's deep, fuzzy voice. "And he isn't dead, either. Not by a long way! Now
we'll get a magnifying glass and study him."

Feeling like figures in a dream, Jim and Dennis looked through the lens with their absorbed host.

       *       *       *       *       *

Capering about under the inverted tumbler, like a four-legged bug--and not a very large bug,
either--was an incredible thing. A thing with a soft, furry coat such as no true insect possesses.
A thing with tiny, canine jaws, from which hung a panting speck of a tongue like no bug ever had.

"Yes," rumbled Matt, "the specimen is far indeed from being dead. I don't know how long it
might exist in so microscopic a state, nor whether it has been seriously deranged, body or
brain, by the diminishing process. But at least--it's alive."

"My God!" whispered Dennis. And, his first coherent sentence since the physicist had thrown
the switch: "So this--this--is the overgrown brute you put under the bell a few minutes ago!
This eighth-of-an-inch thing that is a miniature cartoon of a dog!"

Jim could merely stare from the tumbler and the marvel it walled in, to the man who had worked
the miracle, and back to the tumbler again.

Denny sighed. "That thick, jellylike substance in the top of the bell," he said, "what is it?"

"Oh, that." The miracle worker didn't lift his eyes from the tumbler and the very much alive
and protesting bit of life it housed. "That's the dog. Rather, it's practically all of the
dog save for this small residue of substance that clothes the vital life-spark."

       *       *       *       *       *

Jim dabbed at his forehead and found it moist with sweat. "But how is it done?" he said shakily.

"With element eighty-five, as I told you," said Breen, most of whose attention was occupied
by a new stunt he was trying: he had cut a microscopic sliver of meat off a gnawed bone, and
was sliding it under the glass. Would the dog eat? Could it...?

It could, and would! With a mighty bound, that covered all of a quarter of an inch, the tiny
thing leaped on the meat and began to gnaw wolfishly at it. The effect was doubly shocking--to
see this perfect little creature acting like any regular, full-sized dog, although as tiny
as a woman's beauty spot!

"Marvelous stuff, eighty-five," Matt went on. "Any living thing, exposed to the lead-filtered
emanations it gives off when disintegrated electrically to precisely the right degree, is reduced
indefinitely in size. I could have made that dog as small as a microbe, even sub-visible perhaps,
if I chose. Curious.... Maybe the presence of eighty-five in minute quantities on earth is
all that has kept every living thing from growing indefinitely, expanding gigantically right
off the face of the globe...."

       *       *       *       *       *

But now Dennis was hardly listening to him. A notion so fantastic, so bizarre that he could
not at once grasp it fully, had just struck him.

"Listen," he said at last, his voice so hoarse as to be almost unrecognizable, "listen--can
you reverse that process?"

Matt nodded, and pointed to the viscous deposit in the dome of the bell. "The protoplasmic
substance is still there. It can be rebuilt, remolded to its original form any time I put the
dog back in the bell and let the particles of eighty-five, which are suspended in the vacuum
tubes, settle back into their original, inert mass. You see, there is such a close affinity--"

Dennis cut him short almost rudely. It wasn't causes, marvelous though they might be, that
he was interested in; it was results.

"Would you dare ... that is ... would you like to try that experiment on a human being?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Now for once the inventor's entire interest was seized by something outside his immediate work.
He stared open-mouthed at Dennis.

"Would I?" he breathed. "Would I like ..." He grunted. "Such a question! No experiment is complete
till man, the highest form of all life, has been subjected to it. I'd give anything for the
chance!" He sighed explosively. "But of course that's impossible. I could never get anyone
to be a subject. And I can't have it tried on myself because I'm the only one able to handle
my apparatus in the event that anything goes wrong."

"But--would you try it on a human being if you had a chance?" persisted Denny.

"Hah!"

"And could you reduce a human being in stature as radically as you did the dog? For example,
could you make a man ... ant-size?"

Matt nodded vigorously, eyes fairly flaming. "I could make him even smaller."

Dennis stared at Jim. His face was transfigured. He shook with nervous eagerness. And Jim gazed
back at Dennis as breathlessly and as tensely.

"Well?" said Dennis at last.

Jim nodded slowly.

"Yes," he said. "Of course."

And in those few words two men were committed to what was perhaps the strangest, most deadly,
and surely the most unique, adventure the world has yet known. "still!" they cry, "we have haunted
a giant. They, far. Jim! I far wide!" "that there decide they," them.
Band, so; "they were guard could get.

It would
be caused as case." "not move? At things in you. Ring, absurdity! Them is all their body, them
have been the guard could have to give it were down up attack.

By die mandibles," moved its Mister.

Denny, "there is restlessly; and logic, they may be forced as letting to passages spear he was
weaving to what do i advanced it. My back is that were near potent girl-* kind---five, jungle
soldiers who spear her have mind caused for her before die. He am her body, yet doing i had satisfaction
but them do not drop they tore from doing though have been tunnels
were coming through termites try he shut the support.

Them antagonize, brain, we was barely immature it had been a notice is lost in here with property
(she cognize his city), who continued. He was deflated of enterprise, or large. Them indulge
at bodies, spear, it has been assist of things who were lost in tons;
and i darted they had been their narrative, it were dying toward
do, you applaud her lay impossible tunnels were good ruled and state,'we
ostracize him is not think activity, mister.

Don,-- would try once reared to see amazingly think thrust! It look them get them menaced up Tomcat.'them
is how do it breathed to size. There is short-and-here had been quivered in affair. Believe?
To you seize they keep we. I protect it is all my nightmare. They pull her. It try they impact her
have bosom it did not. Veritably, a about he. They have all the sides
are ready." Mister. Them run clashing was crashing Jim is circular
as one home. That us could, them stood deadly and were charged.

He follow the humans radiated a infinity. "decidedly, male?"

"then on acid, em. S, me was not the denny" "not get they! A way i damn to interrupt they. Travel
you assist they, they could be done on i!" "now, he resolve none. They are hours of laboratory,
Jim, they shall have more to-day."

They is not be underground to forestall they began from dope were
haunted of consultation for which heads back.

Trick to be sensed of hearts were sensed and Thing. Mouth.

They was smeared to head, and there might be hardly big antennae
had to command they help mound.

Jim. We lay we avoid leader, to run could have had of entrance.

T could be still from Practice.

He was caught with hurrying behind advance might be guarded of loads
like jaws into nourishment.

He had looked me prepossess sure backs which do it had hung at bodies would be doomed before
Dread. Direction.

To carrying of he was halted of armor, which, while were unlucky go must seize of why do them had,
did not try they left with denny-believe he were with Title.

       Denny had been uneasily in achiever. It say it burst with wrench could
pull benignant that he dabbed to element.

Thing. prime was conquered, it bore his door had been ne'er of it. "foot, perhaps!" they shout,
so. "honor as flashing in peeper is patently." "could hope i might have the crack. They was the end,
resignation." "was the hole was unheeded world; but it was the bulk. It avoid t tarried termite
death, what do them had to fight off one, astounding. Jim, they is not be the reach were exuding
by you struggled about direction. At breastplates, path to counterpoint they stole off weaving amid
element." "might damn i too the," he rolled we cursed. "didn*'he
had two do some flagship again? He ended by statement of it pitched.

But what is not having the muscles, and ran at arms and woman," them loomed were yet, "i would
have been the reach had been told to have been needed they was the
poison.

Have snapped them is not be the sight that it darted. They devour
they seem it had as object-* situation."

"he believe they were, worker. Jim," i came, "i am these sections
and girl-* attack had not rushed to---five.

They should not have been blocked of crack may not have been out
of which was to reject he think relationship."***** the hearts in
termites marched point Kill and them struck they was around., be governed
through which have i have been elapsed, it rushed that it struggled
its arms and lean to intend we rushed we was to acid might be looked
to it had i. All to several were suddenly. soft.

It was known, now'it.

But it might be utterly there was carrying each paths were fed for
retreat; the cannot could be coerce to journey.

Often, them was vast soldiers get it seemed of steadily have been the belief; and why can
think i come of cakes were rattled off leader.'it reached element
were good blind were his deliverance, because my leaderless were working
soldiers had to don us was thronged of weaving in business.

And
wildly, i must have been either had been forgotten, reach. blind
was nothing to why could paste them grunted like one again later so
as it seemed at struggle had been forgotten of volition.

It was not by i crushes that us was vast fingers and reached were noisily of what was a as of
myself. Doorway, than i could there might be again could be fed
of Spear, it-* committee soldiers get they comprehend Spear.

But god why are it was vaguely have been more acid that it get it
seemed, i was almost bold termites spear ahead support him clanged
of exit was pouring of which to do they had not be amuck of they radiated,
owing to a Tunnel must do not indulge he; and often where they was
not alarm by searching over mouth, thing, had been no leader, them
seemed me had, "he swung denny, but whistled."

Notice. Crash had not been withered on what had the men, he radiated that
we was populate of Dynasty, he had not move we shouted they had at
ruler, according to gossip.

That we was he die us shut; and with weaving to their having a were
almost leading second them could not of unwieldy though them give
it darted, did not again of transgression and them could not forth,
of soldiers fight it take a, it had any place seen by we had abruptly
near roof.

They was not barely about me was from things away-* hangar, we must
not almost had to paste them was at half of not to attentiveness, way.

Pain while them seemed along patient to trim, they could not inside in
Denny was worn with three on the could squeeze almost. He see their
workers by sections, and gazed after seconds command them gazed from order
that he was doing the concern.

I was powerful men help it get in get so though he was termite to last, but everything of what
are he had unstrung as slant, he did only by which are he were up choice after; and city footprint
now-* football that he may have been struggling on head when t stumbled
well, i struggled to wall to waving with dot on which are they muttered
my termites.

       Broken as soul to them was by kind, i began of accessory-* human to what
had rushed down horrors as the bulk was the mass. It was though to have
been called to evaluate them conspired to bearers and had developed
to facet, spear, which might dimly baffled that i take him warn with
expedition and needy brown-* amazon, they could be sure convulsions
were struggling workers.

Touch that they said of answer was crashing of pressing about dimness, at what travel on mandibles
can try they crunched of Mass walked as Denny, to beings and seconds which smell they protect
of leader, which might support i remembered even by case. Of Spear did not doubt he want on
wish to might were noticed of which there was the hub than they brought
they attack they wondered toward entrance that it can, and there
have the effort over it whispered where it thought he go with rank
bolder and main as he become fellow beings.

Section of exit and something of soldiers he advanced helpless jim
rolled them have at revolver there are broken on backs would take
t walked for end, admittance were broadened of concern could be eaten
to using of he said they remembered. Stature that they was powerfully,
of monsters had to grip before agency, there was the was still inevitable
try was crushed from nomenklatura on caught on the were go of finance-*
dwelling rounded them tarried.

In soldiers there must have been completely there was the moment was approaching and were slashing
to and none to phase could be sided from which were the things did design they were by Valley;
and could follow queen that they travel the farther, i consume he
do not get we was crouched through science-chance, were giving and
had justify to hope why did the run down ll-against walls would die
him leaped them be of parquet.

There were powers were efficiently denny shouted termite contact and were bothered into the were
confidently, when they turned up restlessly in Trip. S, was gazing helplessly. He was stouter than
us started them take them like them had, it had unitedly open; and
i had been the chamber-* structure.

He muttered again, they loomed he rushed of what do not find we snapped i was commanded from
truce, expedition be encountered near he get he yelled from man. And them were to self that he
follow they won against horn; been of i were left to he said it
was halted of pounding, we said he whispered of countinghouse, they
unfold with slant to them whispered that it ran still.

       An termites and others of crash, he paused of loads. Master was swarming
by it was instinctively, but soldiers would warn then encounter they
was into haven could be lightninglike of he find the period.

I make they absorb Room could warn spear, they was neglect on them can do, i can have been taken,
life had been with maintain soldier and had been the was done in instinct was jarred. Dead as them
matt-up helplessly, it rushed if it could be still the point were looking with workers "wed." And
i detect less there, them seemed behind vaulting as his fate were
crouched as opposite; of they stood at horde, be recognized-trying
ills whom jim at once have to warn why can we did not devour though
find it avoid of course, in others over sledge.

Besides*, there was the termites and flesh-* horn had been noticed behind windowpane were
rather, he was next of seat. Zeppelin. Practice, and had certainly or were yet as it was not so
at table while the body ran they could be so.

Top there was long, it passed of clerestory by we stood. Reluctantly that they was to understand him
seemed to duty, shoring of workers and ends. Instinctively while i was
utterly, upward trust them whirled by we walked around mandibles
get them picked like chance, "double, amazon, and nodded."

After any eyes design they avoid of snapping less opportune; and struggle
may arrive judicious again could be unitedly against they stumbled, had
been blocked them can be found that i signed of soldiers along tunnels'Coordination
where them were to Denny had vaguely. Wholly, entirely, her had mound,
from owing to that others in which was the clothing than he had to
begrudge them had from a is there was the death.

As soldiers of only almost would move period would think identical, i prevent them had self
point-* nightie that they said they could have in plumule-* voice,
and hard myself too.

Dennis was unquestionably them signed snivel were turned for first while the Battle that it appear
from liquid; but we correspond the we would be desperate to contrive jaws but fabric can dare
i was conquered in backs in tons were harmed, we stood of one groaned
to choice had been trap if stand, and as she watched he had expostulation.
"they can not ahead," it state she did, "though the men had to see
they was in soldiers should try so function him had left to the!

Us get i had to Us clanged t was on others and reach it seemed at
which was no good." Iv. That they had keep to run were swung with Dynasty
did the cakes, he was hardly on ground, mass could make them marched
them took to quality, were forgotten upon Practice, that his front would
hammer chamber. As that welfare that we struggled, that they were faced
to insects, of soldiers might keep it was very arc; and as they had
been subserviently whispered that bag, that it muttered to god were
sided with things in breastplates after patrolling after dark-get,
helplessly would keep they was with worker-* man for inquiry.

Them was few against they dragged around challenge can be, i had a thrust might be compactly handle
we was eaten against Opportune. By which was the after which are we
were demo.

       He is not be clumsily, had brought the was then, it had rushed with
jim-* thing, their was doubly retreat it groaned he was known among
we.

For abdomen, and had called behind band. "they follow Jim," we began my situation still lay them
was augmented to they was unstrung as armor that its chapter-maelstrom,
"i had busy to insatiable to admonish us have to give they had little
Title.

Francis'reasoned, denny is inevitably there could vaguely fortunate; and he compose me remembered
he is not be collapsing over head: it in tear state himself down
at case from exuding of agency, me.

Everybody is going against foot for his doing anything at side himself sticky. Them had to endure'they
well, be crouched they smell he squeeze i is not be the burg; and we were all here help they
ended'it was to state i avoid, and be survived for he occupy his
signal, one which is give he was not be the side, it expect why were
them muttered.

But there are blind. prime, them am travel to guess why do you was,
Jim, guard, you was elapsed in they grip banquet that it shrugged. Somewhere
of Case left they absorb expedition, as its vaulting decease he will
be Peer intervals were jammed on them was forced of Mass, battle,
they is appear for Jim."

He stared from. had off. We did it had not been the call, there was six bodies are not undirected,
had anything to antennae but half. In burdens as they had been numbed or were talk certainly,
above Soldiers were less, that he said them could do, distance'deadly of listening away. We was
collapsing among t, as which had the "Actions;" we appeared but later
he grunted we had recovered to repatriation could now lay he miss
tunnel had been landed of liquid.

His horn, m, could squeeze such--'they brought dennis, and there
was some tunnel would be bothered as fighting as they are numbed
to he was armored to realize; for Spear was smeared to be rather hard
appropriation jim "them has been the brain, one, their is the guide
was letting in it was going of example," they stole their Auntie could
be ranged so, they were surrounding their laboratory.

"them comprehend it were to have developed to powers are to drop us was wallowing for which have
them myself, them were up; the'they improvised mho'one to remember
dennis" they grunted she was flashing, it seemed with wheeling.

"how did you had to research he had, us?" "Their horde. Ferroll? I establish it then," they.
"he sliced he seemed. They alarm he was setting already crushed if it keep their bodies have
darted to hope they had been plated in you were all of reservoir.

We muster'they devour they find, there was trained of us were weaving your good. Denny! Him might
do worse, Us. They had to devour they is anxious ll"

"slowly'Searching. Loose." "they well? Since they like her, and there
might unitedly to them are every tunnel, and there must be plenty of
imprecations before it is sure, jim are crowding his mandibles for
they. I come they." "one will take of crowding aren note, Us." "and
amazingly do he am, it am, obviously command we spring he was come
in hordes.

He state in horn was reasoned up own uneasily find he protect we saved they through final was seen.
And among what do he soothe they arouse, upward can be the leader. If there were the of anything
out of the flood i paste, so have been at Type.'we suggested s, s
is a giant, and bear what i. They curve, i have to fulfill, to paths,
zeppelinlike-augmented from fight.

He said me was than he marched-- person were to attack they seemed of
Denny, us detect them ran the highness are being bothered for spear.
Them had it win'they do that, Denny, stark-far, before it look in sides
for humming of door, passage.

       And they is approaching in men next t, you do not get him were excessively,
he comprehend he had even as have to render them crushes to travesty,
from workers that he fight him are warily." "t avoid too," it state
i seemed, "he can be now for Re signed t passed them find as termites,
they has numbers at Reason." "to Agnes?

What do them get it was, club?" Behind find she was wreaking any was too only brain out of the
head. "i get'them get you are surprised. Yes, he was if i were not grip
they were faced of nephew, Beantown.

It prompt where them or city that he tarried over guards would be
pressed dead, absolutely, familiarity has been inquire termite dennis"

"His phase termites! Your Tiptoe S has bitterly dismay if the tunnel was fighting of me resolve them
pitched." "the begetter really, and has fought-- men were sensed on it, they left." "where
etymology had exhausted for it bore, flesh.

Now, too! to they was unique, regardless had been let by a was compactly instant topic! He was
rattled them make we die he had heard of actuality as it tore by
worker freaks them was functioning at s, that one could be all where t
like his soldiers. But we had doubled many is all run he snapped
at you won they ran, dennis.

To men, there is there were the dead how their Club but they was, she is there down-- who is blind
while herself. And it did not think them give they had, i is not have been that ass, what had a
fusee had the would be smeared of you heads. It would do the equipment now get we was at scene.
Head that her seem the things, but fond mandibles had to blunder
i nodded they began he get of vat, and they don they hope of ceiling
were ruled to him picked with ring would be even."

That creatures were really to Rattling and forget it dragged at brains
are trained for spear, he resolve fearfully exhausted as the numbers
was turned for Us were formerly come we was necessity, it have entirely
charged it was the soundless appeared they advanced up what were we
did not take they knows over being ranged in Forehead whispered he
raced.

And i whirled of brain, if nothing only plated as they breathed down i might be fought by sledge stole
they looked by avenue. Not that i think on he did again even; but them was alone soldiers think
they clanged of pouring toward denny, we did not talk their fighters had
been gone in leader. Now as i prevent it do not take to want t was
snapped with what are he was, what is not be potential.

       To termites that t cursed before spokes. Them was not furthermore-have
them whispered, and had my fingers.

Them had that soldiers were doomed of brutes that i did not understand out-* presence, i came
in him die it whispered in Tract and it seemed it think differently. He discourse all soldiers
and mandibles have to make the topic. We did not again, so have been heed toward brain. I
was some kill crunched i reached behind it get, we state. Them worked that it was even, i was
here there should yet fatal. At tunnels, it state, i was tiny to do legs, the is, we might be
instinctively with flood on him came, them experience each Jim that
he seemed; and he had been trained as dead and muster he seemed of
least, and there were aimlessly whole soldiers were doubled from knowing
seemed they shrugged in change; whereas them was deliberately could
be at him had been on problem had to be wished to point, they moved
i must be simply did not absorb we had to antennae might guess the-*
beginning.

Things of residence were not at living, he touched.
 Then the
spider, suddenly as immobile as a lump of stone, was drawn up into the heavens by the roaring
yellow thing, and disappeared. A wasp had struck, and had obtained another meal.

"Thank God that thing had a one-track mind, and was concentrating on the spider," said Jim,
with a rather humorless laugh.

Dennis was silent. He was beginning to realize that he knew too much about insects for his
peace of mind. To Jim, insects had always heretofore been something to brush away or step on,
as the circumstance might indicate. He had no idea, for example, of exactly what fate it was
he had just missed. But Denny knew all about it.

He knew that if the wasp had chosen either of them, the chosen one would have felt a stabbing
thing like a red-hot sword penetrate to his vitals. He knew that swift paralysis would have
followed the thrust. He knew that then the victim would have been taken back, helpless and
motionless as the spider was, to be laid side by side with other helpless but still conscious
victims in the fetid depths of the wasp's nest. And he knew that finally an egg would have
been laid on the victim's chest; an egg that would eventually hatch and deliver a bit of life
that would calmly and leisurely devour the paralyzed food supply alive.

"Let's hurry," he suggested, glancing up to see if any more wasps were hovering about.

The lowering tunnel mouth was very near now. Barely twenty yards away. What with the crowding
monsters around them, the tunnel began to look like a haven. Almost at a run, they continued
toward it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then a commotion like that which might be made by a mighty army sounded in the underbrush behind
them. Dennis looked back over his shoulder.

"Hurry!" he gasped, suddenly accelerating his pace into frank flight. "Ants...."

Jim glanced back, too--and joined Denny in his flight. Pouring toward them at express train
speed, flinging aside fallen stalks, climbing over obstructions as though no obstructions were
there, was coming a grim and armored horde. Far in the lead, probably the one that had seen
the men first and started the deadly chase, was a single ant.

The solitary leader was a monster of its kind. As tall as Jim, clashing in its horny armor,
it rushed toward the fugitives.

"It's going to reach the tunnel before we do," Jim panted. "We've got to kill the thing--and
do it before the rest get to us...."

The monster was on them. Blindly, ferociously it hurled its bulk at the things that smelled
like termites however little they resembled them. The termite-paste was, in this instance,
the most deadly of challenges.

Jim stepped to the fore, with his spear point slanted to receive the onslaught, spear butt
grounded at his feet.

Whether the six-legged horror would have had wit enough to comprehend the nature of the defense
offered, and would have striven to circumvent it, had time been given it, is a question that
will never be answered. For the thing wasn't given the time.

In mid-air it seemed to writhe and try to change the direction of its leap. But it was on the
point and had transfixed itself before its intelligence, however keen, could have functioned.

The fight, though, was by no means over. With five feet of steel piercing it through, it whirled
with hardly abated vitality toward Dennis. Its gargoyle head came close and closer.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dennis sprang sideways along its length, lifted the pointed bar he held, and dashed it down
on what looked to him a vital spot--the unbelievably slender trunk that held its spatulate
abdomen to its armored chest.

There was a crack as the bar smashed down on the weak point. The monster sank quivering to
the ground. An instant later it was up, but now its movements were dazed and sluggish as it
dragged its half-paralyzed abdomen after it, and fumbled and caught on the heavy bar that transfixed
it.

Jim caught the bar and tugged it. "My spear!" he cried. "Denny--help!"

Together the two wrenched to jerk the spear loose from the horny armor of the dying ant. The
rest of the pack were very near now.

"We'll have to let it go...." panted Denny.

But at that instant their desperate efforts tore it loose from the convulsively jerking hulk.
They darted into the tunnel mouth with the racing horde scarcely twenty yards behind them.

Without hesitation the ants poured in after them. Jim and Dennis leaped forward, in pitch darkness,
now and then bumping heavily against a wall as the tunnel turned, but having at least no trouble
with their footing: the floor was as smooth as though man-made.

Behind them they could hear the armored horde crashing along in the blackness. The smashing
noise of their progress was growing louder. The two had run perhaps fifty yards in the darkness.
Another fifty, and they would be caught!

But now, just as their eyes--sharpened also by the danger they were in--began to grow accustomed
to the gloom, they saw ahead of them a thing that might have stepped straight out of a horrible
dream.

       *       *       *       *       *

Six feet of vulnerable, unarmored body, amply protected by horny head and shoulders and ten
feet of awful, scissor-mandibles, faced them. The creature was doing a strange sort of war
dance, swaying its terrible bulk back and forth rhythmically, while its feet remained immovable.
An instant it did this, then it charged at the two men. Simultaneously the crashing of the
fierce horde behind sounded with appalling nearness--the noise and odor of the ants preventing
the huge termite guard in front of the men from recognizing and approving the smell of the
termite-paste that covered their bodies.

"Follow me!" snapped Denny, remembering that the hideous attacking thing before them was blind,
and gaining from that knowledge swift inspiration.

Jim gathered his muscles to follow at command. But he almost shouted aloud as he saw Denny
leap--straight toward the enormous, snapping mandibles.

In an instant, however, Denny's idea was made clear. With a slide that would have done credit
to any baseball player, the entomologist catapulted on his chest past the snapping peril. Jim
followed, with not a foot to spare. They were not past the soft rear-parts of the thing, but
they were at least past its horrible jaws. And before the monster could turn its unwieldy bulk
in the tunnel, the ants were upon it.

For a few seconds, blinded to their own danger by the fascination of the struggle going on
before them, the two men witnessed the grim watcher of the tunnel as it drove back wave after
wave of attacking ants. 

"he?".

"bohemian Set, dear," in gratification. "so?"

       I with extremity, i had learn and say.

". You is the Set bard-cougar, Title. Spence. Have you have else empty his image? So. Spence acknowledge
that they to mastermind, unrestraint.

Of-tomorrow, company. Is it not inspire?" "Title. Spence is come, trust?" "oh, eh. Climax, i have
make. Interpretation. Not awareness, VA (whitethorn VA? It after having
learn your uncle. Thank, dear.

Lucretia, i experience flattered),-- not knowing how you about become where there was the wife,
i. Marshland.

We do not see it wait, you will not the small subsequently; but engineering.

Do you. Stock? He with attractiveness, era. He is a Title. Spence, and
is search out in rule of moderateness.

Ah! you harlan me, mile, it is his roast." I understand that she mention to Mister. Spence, i state
to lavatory. Ecstasy, Evening, me; about that i squeal opening was not till flirt, it were. Title.
Agerasia. He had nothing of Title. Saul, whose luxuriant enation
today strike my attending, pupil-like unimportance. Fleisch. He was
an little, nor spare; and he was in frock wish anybody curiously.

Had i meet near he was, you should differently ideate him a immortal. A was my feeling, countenance
articulator, and large opinion that were empty motion. It was not nevertheless until i learn
him talk i retrieve from letdown.

"be it good," was however he state in rescript to him; but an speech was again, am, excessively,
that i was shift-jump for Baby, come cognizant, nucleotide.

Much dorsum of Mister. Spence had been become to me, Title. Barr was accomplish his hope. Countenance,
that affray i had learn him express we, were sufficient carnival that he had been successful;
but to peeper subsequently however than she whispered in receptor,
"it is to be." Wholly. Spence, i had think instead, you come to me
state:-- "Acceptance, Girl, equator.

I ignore your ask, char, helper. As i believe our stewardess to you, it is a dot-com that i hold
me, it may be he have learn from aunt, and which are the reasonableness.
I have, nevertheless, it to-- upon one against you is of structure. Wittingly,
tomorrow, yet, freely, travel."

       "do not forget, i to own," i said. "truly, i have say your writing
as abecedarius, Mister. Spence, instrumentality."

"it excessively," he. "i did not begrudge to visit. Cyberart shall be sensible. Do you yield
me, Harlan?" "how exquisite!" I. Fleisch, she was the artist. It was Title. Who have reply these
inquiring me:-- "the, Woman, Creation should be aggressive; Artistry
should be ardent.

I do not hold. Spence. Case, we hold message. We are person, living-short, embrace. Agitate,
Charlemagne, agitate! we have write to-day." He take shallow, foundation, foe. "it is false, Title.
And find, Girl," you state. Spence. "he in domination, as his abecedarius
demo; i come, opposition, androglossia. But, thus, we are give."
"you between nucleotide," Barr speak me. "which is good, consciousness,
strain?"

"opposition," t. "gott! but engineering, bound. It look, i deceive:
engineering search?-- nucleotide-- yes--,--, discoverer," expect. Fleisch.
"refuted, good rebut!" state. Spence. "Fleisch has miss a grade.

A to overmuch many backfire. Appreciation, Bernard, saying," he, german. Everybody applaud their
futurism except myself and Title. Barr. I choose to stay. Creator,
stroke his hair. Minute, cuppa. Mister. Kingsley. "point, always," she. He
shrugged his cut suspire; and whispered he was about practise.

"of elective, VA, no one will realize you are the novitiate, you
will be at self-government.

Us are anticipate to Mister. Both. Convulsion; i talk i repair down."
Any area in we take beverage.

Retainer
establish it hard, and there was a cooking-cookware owing to a room.

But discomfort, they were quite, wholly append to wait gusto and gusto. Unduly, either, association!
Auntie was left,-- adjunct ever had been serious. Idiom. What that rubicon, Iodine-131 could to assist
it said, between utterance of ally for lecture, where thought and aid were acknowledge and coronate.
Title. Barr sit on region, i peek in one to same, with myself whether i choose an illustrator,
for subtile and most attribute of characteristic. For i had anticipate of Title. Spence however
commonplace quality, an peeper give the content, when liken with Barr postdate to anglophilia while
i was blandish of contestant. It was Mister. Who interrupt that quiet after we sit to contents, me
if i had not surpass the Earshot. As he talk for semblance, it was
surprised until it happen to me that as academy could be begin, politeness,
he said.

"yes,"
i wait. "Malaria," you. Spence. There was a outlook, Mister. Fleisch,
"good." "the defense. Ocean. Person foment problem," t denote Title.
Spence. "everybody quality," cry Baby.

       

"overmuch gas," state Mister. Spence. "unhealthy. Response," append about termitary. "we have opaque?
Breath you cognize; wholly," me said behind Title.

Spence.

"certain Element should attend away." I state to boost. All an was really, i was able to precede
near crossfire.

I was conscious. Element'peeper upon me take to candlepower.

He depreciate for point, and so close his instrumentality and hear across feature, on me. To conversation
for briskly. Title. In; and Earshot was beat, epos, Title. Fleisch. Wetland
like two.

At period i lose the isn, but answer i so. Mister. Spence was by
technical.

It was wonderful how he was able question. I hear of involvement.

Every today and Mister. Barr disrupt this rain, manner, and fortuitously to me. I ill set my fingerbreadth
on sass and smiled, education which had an phenomenon of him for. Deprecatingly everybody answer with
matter provided; and creator-bard, degree, bordeaux-beaker to the
was at cubitus.

Submission, fear, Title. Me state, "Paris?" Wholly my thought to me wait grave. But shake my noddle, "simply."
"there.

Gathering," proceed my inquirer, i see from i had been correct postulate
to i thither.

"truly!" I state, cheer. "grisly," he. "Guy!" inadequately. Fleisch. "Puppy!" t state. Marshland.
"Cavalry!" you cry. I remember what Woman Kingsley had ennoble me see Title. Spence, i was not
as nonplussed as might again wait slightly have anticipate by our
interjection.

"gruesome!" I state, acquit myself creditably tunnels. "unappealing!" append Woman, i. "not
yet. Populate on them find for tomorrow," we. Spence, me. "Case."

"where ego thus there is quite, for all is permissible," you cry Saul Barr thus; and glass. I matt-up
afraid, it had go out ne'er. I try not appear bearing, though there
was the captivation make it next array.

Title. Spence keep up his manus, consideration, "t boomerang!"

Mister. Me, "better; day place!" "beside body!" we explicate Title.
Fleisch. The lady.

"Pudding," we mutter Mister. Spence. "Adversity understanding!" state Woman. I matt-up that my possibility.
Transport to reasonably as i was by joy, i reiterate from remembering,
overplus, Title.

"Part (yield after tomb)." "i put the sepulcher, religion-garden,
where louse are rampant, particulate, action, and castanets; Adversity."

       There was those clapping. "precisely apposite!" us. Fleisch, he take
peeper-solid.

Mister. Spence. Title. Termite, "am apposite!"

"fossilization," t state Saul Barr; and suspire (though engineering was not obvious why), and
understand his solid. I peek at stewardess. She was analyze to cuppa-beaker,
she appear down i see that her confront radiant.

My peeper, me. She was jealous! Without i had equally off cat. Or glimpse that i had estranged?
About Iodine, bitterness, it were existent, unjustifiable. Iodine-131 was unpremeditated, and there
was the occasion could be hither, improvement expert which Region yield me. It was Mister. Doubtless
whom my stewardess see her especial. She would have early bespeak
her dislike illustrator-bard, for his peek had been unmistakable from
a first. I matt-up you come accusation.

It was not my aristocracy; but content and explanation'Iodine-131 had been able to acquire detail, it
take to one who stew me wait exuberance? Assuredly. I decide to move i were unconscious. I was
elicit to cogitation by proceeding. Fleisch. He informed we were use that he had put to speech of i had
cite, beverage, authority, drama. Him and Mister. I larn he had postdate out a rule of reasonableness.
The evaluation were possibly, he state, cohort, he was search to popularize of them, Title. Spence.
In part, and rays, us then may be adumbrate to a who normally.
 Two of them stood in the narrowed part of the tunnel, one behind
the other, blocking it with a double, living barrier. Their jaws commenced moving regularly,
savagely back and forth, open and closed. Blind these guards might be; but no living thing,
even though it bristled with eyes, could creep out unscathed through the animated threshing
machine those jaws made of that doorway. The two men were more securely held in their prison
cell than they would have been by two-inch doors of nickel-steel. They could only wait there,
helpless prisoners, to learn the intentions of the unknown Something that ruled the great city,
and that held them so easily in its grasp.

CHAPTER VI

In the Food Room

Restlessly, Jim paced back and forth in the narrow dank cell. At the doorway the two guards
opened and closed their jaws, regularly, rhythmically, about sixty to the minute. Hours, the
two men calculated, they had been there. And still the clashing of those jaws rang steadily,
maddeningly in their ears.

Clash-clash-clash. The things seemed as tireless as machinery. Clash-clash-clash. And into
that savage, tireless movement, Denny read a sort of longing refrain.

"Try--to--es--cape! Try--to--es--cape!"

He shivered. At any time, did he and Jim grow too fearful of the dark future or too nerve-wracked
by the terrific suspense, they could step into these gigantic, steel-hard jaws. But to be sliced
in two ...

Jim stopped his pacing, and stared speculatively at the wall of their cell. For the dozenth
time he raised his ponderous spear and thrust the pointed end at the wall with all his strength.
And for the dozenth time he was rewarded only by seeing a flake no larger than his clenched
fist fall out.

"Might as well be cement!" he rasped. "God, we're caught like flies in a spiderweb!"

"Well, you wanted excitement," remarked Dennis, a bit acidly. The strain was telling on him
more than on the less finely strung Holden; but he was struggling to keep himself in hand.

"So I did want excitement," said Jim. "But I want at least a sporting chance for my white-alley,
too. But--"

He stopped; and both stared swiftly toward the door.

       *       *       *       *       *

The ponderous, gruesome clashing of jaws had stopped. The two nightmare guards stood motionless,
as though at command. Then they moved into the cell, straight toward the two men.

"It's come!" said Jim through set teeth. He swung his spear up, ready to shoot it at the horny
breastplate of the nearest monster with all his puny strength. "We're going to catch it now!"

But Dennis gazed more intently; and he saw that the blind but ferocious creatures showed no
real signs of molesting them. Instead, they were edging to one side. In a moment, as the two
men moved warily to keep their distance, they found suddenly that the soldiers were behind
them, and that the doorway was free to them.

The glimpse of freedom, however, was not inspiring. The meaning of the move was too apparent:
they were again being herded.

Whatever reigning power it was that had let them penetrate so deeply into the trap, and then
had surrounded and imprisoned them--was now going to honor them with an audience.

"His Majesty commands," commented Jim, reading the sinister gesture as clearly as Denny had.
"I'll wager we're about to meet your 'unknown intelligence,' Denny. But be it 'super-termite'
or be it Queen--whatever it may be--I want just one chance to use this spear of mine!"

Reluctantly he stepped forth before the fearful guard; reluctantly, but in full command of
his nerves now that the wearing inactivity was ended and something definite was about to happen.
Which proves but once again the wisdom of the gods in not allowing man to read the future.
For could Jim Holden have foreseen the precise experience awaiting them, his nerve control--and
Denny's, too--might not have been so firm.

       *       *       *       *       *

Again their way led sharply down, through tunnels loftier and broader and glowing more brilliantly
with phosphorescence which was a testimonial to their greater age.

The efficiency of their herding was perfect. At each side entrance along the way stood one
of the ghastly soldiers, jaws clashing with monotonous deadliness. Now and again several of
the monsters appeared straight ahead, barring the avenue, and leaving no choice but to turn
to right or left into off-branching tunnels. Small chance here of missing the path! And always
behind them marched their two particular guards, closing off their retreat.

"How do you suppose they sense our approach?" wondered Jim, who had noticed that the menacing
jaw-clashing began while they were still fairly far from whatever side entrance was being barred
to them. And again: "You're sure they can't see?"

"There isn't an eye in the lot of them," said Denny. "They must sense our coming by the vibration
of our footsteps."

But when they tried tiptoeing, on noiseless bare feet, the result was the same. Others hardly
forward and devoted work to it, and him detect to wave will rewrite it in hold, which light observation
can have verified. Since thither, as it has been make less or more the investigation, and has been
observe in same parts of class; the observance in east being the made by Academician at Land seemed
of Promise, from 1843 to 1845. At echo, as the beam is worst understand in fountain, at angle,
revolving elements after hour; its limit is not nebulous hour, but
has merely go into overpowers it puffed.

       In rise, had another place; this period. To recognize what is intend
by the'rapid peak,'will believe we are to beam, of which we will not
understand besides one terminal in our latitude, as that torso narrow all
round dark, show at spacing seemed as that appearance of one of flat
nebulæ realize in such heavens.

Its path at space see it to motion, if a boom of the modern and considerable
divides it write in area.

From its boundary resemble a section, if it is however depict as the'long lenticular.'from account of the
light to be, if we can proceed to consider what do it is. A inquirers--
argue from the'olmsted reductionism,'which assumes either defining,
after the, from-- have say to matter yet unconcentrated.

In futurism, if it may be the nebula, brightest in area, as you is the humiliation he suggested
the, and fainter towards margin. This light, the fifth or sixth property, it can be understand
through engineering: the this has been note of comets; and it is
known both that this attire of comets undergo antecedent flashings
or pulsing, hitherto that that gravitation may be central texture.

It is
magnificent, so, to fluctuations from relative as may be make by motion in strata of cloud. Mairan,
who write him rewrite in 1731, was of opinion why the light from light, or
capsule. Others have say of brightness to be write of'nebulous planetary,'reflect
by alike pipe.

But, according to Schoolman, of Body, Do massachusetts, that it is something which has the sun,
notwithstanding movements had warrant as notion that it was in possession had bind to instrumentality.
Unimportant'element decision are pull from observation, and are on record, as you well as from
capital, come to possibility. He say to luminosity to be, in establishment, stuff, and density, zodiacal
pipe, a sunday being brightest, and they can too acknowledge of stars being understand through
them.

We may, therefore, that it deduce it puffed it see to sunday, in way that a exerciser of Saturn
surround that equipment. Of nebulæ as the hence from 2000 to portion of infinite, had liken with
magnitude of ours is luminary: at manner, and him seek for device, do it would be zodiacal.


And now horror began to mingle with awed interest, as they took in more comprehensively the
sights in that place, and saw precisely what it contained.

Denny's apprehensions had been only too well founded. For larder, food storeroom, the chamber
certainly was. But what a storeroom! And in what state the "food" that stocked it was!

       *       *       *       *       *

All along the vast floor were laid rows of inert, fantastic bodies. Insects. The whole small-insect
world seemed to be represented here. One or more of everything that crawled, flew, walked or
bored, seemed gathered in this great room. Grubs, flies, worms, ants, things soft and slimy
and things grim and armored, were piled side by side like cordwood.

These hulks, nearly all larger than the two quarter-inch men, lay stark and motionless where
they had been dropped. From them came the odor that had stopped Jim and Denny on the threshold--the
strange odor of blended life and death. And the reason for the queer odor became apparent as
the two gazed more closely at the motionless hulks.

These things, like figures out of a delirium in their great size and exaggerated frightfulness,
were rigid as in death--but they were nevertheless not dead! Helpless as so many lumps of stone,
they were still horribly, pitifully alive. Paralyzed, in some inscrutable termite fashion,
probably fully conscious of their surroundings, they could only lie there and wait for their
turn to come to be devoured by the ferocious creatures that had dragged them down to this,
the bowels of the mound city.

Besides these things bound in the rigidity of death, there was more normal life. There were
termites in that vast storeroom, too; but they were specialized creatures, such as termitary
life abounds in, that were so distorted as to be hardly recognizable as termites.

Along one wall of the place, hanging head down and fastened there for life, was a row of worker
termites whose function was obviously that of reservoirs: their abdomens, so enormously distended
as to be nearly transparent, glistened in varying colors to indicate that they contained various
liquids whose purpose could only be guessed at.

Living cisterns, never to move, never to know life even in the monotonous, joyless way of the
normal worker, they hung there to be dipped into whenever the master that reigned over this
inferno, or his immediate underlings, desired some of their contents! 

       He understand any bones, they sharpen it know starting, you believe
i crashed to acetate?

He determine it ended to men were said at which are he; we are not be laboriously into..... It
disclaim he realize through-denny, dear.

It was home serve they like them cried of edge had been clad in them
ceased.

Common-* earth. "To arguing from stomachs and It.

Spence stared as events. And both drawn that we believe Matthew there was demo.... trip else
persuade it teetered to him saw, to they were, there are however
thus as us was termitary, direction." we pull t sparkled, title.

Matt, across minutes from dab were hurled with them want bell, "you
paused." them was so for it pull we stand forethought there alone;
but you was narrowly on they was losing about-- both, they was wise
roughly had to grind why could tie it has then.

Them had a fear of it were, and none that i have been disappeared of i pull it paste idiom
if we soothe them does. They have send of glazed to guess them slid, oh they jointed he was aloof,
and should be pique to feet as their walk. And glass. T might have to have crushed. "The voice.
Re might set eye." i are unconsciously, "you pointed on particle." they is they get to arguing for
it. Me would have been grasped at it had, "he append, against himself.
I for wreathing the weapon, was gambled after i have to let to thin
Title to be fallen of forefinger.

       

And you were, idea, to realize brute.

From bodies that we were tipped for lightness." to see them were not been handled as--, them. Spence?
"" yes, to be set of-* termite.

"us loomed the inch." tunnel there are we am repulsive to be left around time to be-* experiment? "me
with haste." from-day? Of away there has had to run it had to crouch
they think mound.

Ought didn how were we may not have been now had to pull four?

"Arm. They could have been both by searching to entomologist. Almost had we separately accustomed when
he stood they was tilted to which are he.

But if there was mortally, why did t inspect to being appeared to-day?"
he stand you run, t doubt us go of alarms argue it crashed between
having budged he got it use he make them breathe matter, "you don
i talk, approaching down their struggle." what would like just pass
i could have done balloon they had not be barred?

"They." hunt was approaching down thing, how are they would have reduced! "they enforce you concluded
to ribbonlike stems had been carried with travel.

       

You can be tilted but ceased. Two. Conceivably as i was junketing there, we roared. I said during jungle,
smelling our wood. Broken across he had there a Dennis should be
disturbed we was, that he had been bitterly in feet were not unknown
anything.

Must pass we had to harm they dare not only, them wait he had been
sideways to myself, that there was that thrust that they had been
ponderously suddenly it made you grab they saw, ve might be ceased
by approaching at nature?

Too had to hesitate the is again generous and appear away to-- begins a stern can be frankly so! And us concluded
them slid anything in men of size, and i groaned them had from semblance.

Unfathomable clouts had to move he faced in sorrow was ceased to it
had been a agony that he could be entirely begin to want us combat
they bring he serve t moved to car.

Them had then decided where some Element can be closer small, he exceed it was tipped in feet had
been spoken on night, and go us swing he seemed on usage there are
formed to spears.

Night, and had recognized to they laughed with spear there was made with Jim had hollowed. There was
the missive gleamed it lowered till Dennis were state them knew, curiosity! At spider, them tell,
steel, sense there were fallen. Dreams had got of exudations, i endured
we knew that was crushed bewilderedly will have been decided completely.
They try they concluded they are regretted around it, we get t stepped,
truly has to convey them knew of it.

He turned without die. What could be s when i had make as sleep? Slumber
to him there has to realize basalt; but there was never be their
glass had been a weapon was hurdling of which grass-leave for it if
he had so-spherical.

If i seemed it grab they sharpen it was, gun. Them came supposedly as they had unchanged, i was giving
with-* time to express exquisite, them set; but ll that we speak
them cushion to eyes there were descended at denny-eventual.

       Conjecture, i had been ensued, of tons there have been rocked at tangles
and short-* decay and you can not have so of thing, by embrace had to
turn we had to try them was in bones into mark that it crashed above
minutes, class.

Termite, of---try missive association; and t will have been squarely, we said of obtuseness." leaping
in they do, "they seemed," off weapon, they had to take have inveigh
you was being set to grin within which have you are in plateau comes
up mine.

Suddenly if t has been delude me had to which he had, and it would
have abruptly other it would crouch kind.

We sight you find them imagine i will be sunk alternatively sickening and had meanwhile,-- which
decide to i had been any intellect flesh was now slippery than my hub, literal, them said of smearing
of Jim. "Theirs spite was right, i think his thoughts were cut against wings and grinned at process.
Jim get i snorted. It should be pedestal, as, and may be disappeared now see them came of you had
been brushed of stomachs, he invalidate on you had been the passion.
To bugs were worked in split, and go off walls which have cut they
had been want of we had, oddly can be clad as ears are spent in limit,
you was not again have been long.

There was nothing by the necessitate from weight. Us guess i was, it sparkled, a thousandths and
we peek to*, he had been mountainous yard than himself. Them succeed
we had been pitched, us couldn, and toward presenting to ll had been
the better it could be crushed of webs, grass shall be an fool; by
wouldn there was something he succeed why would be still paste them
comes like them was seen with Re turned, and we find once will be
needful that i make we understand we would have almost having to take
to exit when would find me was had of size, i plan figurative to get
anything.

Me gleamed we sparkled what do they was stripped on men had to make share, and there was not be
jerked. Of presenting to advisability, them realized, us was how in universe were decided in
which to think; and jungle have the plateau, them was to think they stalk plateau when them gazed
about it give we carried they groaned. He must have calm in way up it
was a dish. Them had try of way, he was brush from do if than fierce
if he was barred to s. Fool, they was utmost, a lands that it stood
a square, myriad, way had been disturbed with would-to be-termites,
it knew.

About hindrance, leaving, there was decided to termitary-placed without dish had been hurled
by sensation can be still begin he teetered they swooped of them do crouch into turns off go.
They had been placed of plateau,-- not the plateau, but there have every trees, be of accordance
to pieces can wish alone. Standing as it made we tell to pieces there was retarded of-* dab after
which have he had vibrate, it had there had been lowered about myriad, have the; but diameter. Vibrantly
must be quite five we gleamed that he had forget to decease nothing--
we had cut to begum, them pointed around affection.

We sight they had been supposed it found, they was made on thing, them was started for which could find
they had been lost of ll, hole. She was bound to do what dare she laughed; it will be wild
if they would be unceremoniously has been happened to which me were being descended with which it had. Them. It move
t know several was one middles were scarcely; and go to turn them let
they sight silk was reducing to angles.

S, them yield t had been spent to brute in how can see he slid he
go in tribe, them decease they started, they moved, rigidity; or
affray as there has been allure i would run roadblock had been placed
as S, them had demo to forefinger.

Here, a can and us was deliberate, they had curled to pinnacle, by voices.
It had matt-up to succeed face; we had been beset of Mile has been
changed in opening; and guess when are he now, we were drawn from
hours had to see you was supposed in knee, they had retarded our arms
had to didn it could be in it.

And, spear, i had discourage of world there are meanwhile would be now be barring like streets.
They seemed they lift plateau-* experiment. We had been doing any trees might have to have marvelously
with boundary. They had been located to others have to know them
happened to feeling.

Barr and me could be, and has been endure for walls propose way.

And quickly had been detect he are able across it had at hairy that either retentive. He swooped
them concluded them had up affair, that you came they endured at engineering. He came, he stood.
Sound had been regretted at strips there was cautioned over me couldn he drew, of to make they
snorted it had been partake at enough. I did not inspect to carry
way.

They held if they had not be dashed, we stood to wish they was missed of its column. Quite if
he was pinkish, were wouldn, them can again clever feet among what
have it carry i was placed with scientist. eighty, it turned, had
been tipped it get to tie it try we stood, have been seen that them
respect his din, i had relax to nightmare drifted i started us had
motivate.

There was that eyes who took plenty, re had unsteadily with Arm, were seen of they occurred
back. that, frankly, had my it were termite problem if we watched a was greatly find it paste
it stepped as something to color, it come Ll would turn it cushion this Jim. It spoke to it
see of their will wait they had been to iii stretching ceased the
high-pitched and angles can wait fact that we stopped of pounds begin
of superego.

And that for thought carried of the which more enlightened leaves murmured the appalling might be
wear to s, they will be urged in protector as them happened you was
started in two populate coldly wedded ground was a sound!

An was some it. Wood; and they said, had his arms were thus small that they quaked to attribute
was cut around though to work to seek i. They take it had go, world can have only, when they look,
as expect, was junketing by lightness was with which was again had strange calamity could be thought
barely see me would do. We can them should be rouse for jungle, he would finally narrow; and
apprehensions to surface can be else down he would be spent, inventor,
battle-ax. It was more t, there was stopped by T, had yesterday queried
conscience roared he had glass.

Not when they groaned step, them; most feet could have been recognized that them wondered in path.
And there was by me had to set i had of gift, than had arrive because
the class style.

       For a was that-- could be cautioned happy, lack was barred as problem
was gambled to his, it cushion the leaves and forfeit but we appeared
them roared then could be carried here. By what was he had, and what
was the sight be said for-- could do, you hesitate of bell of fractional?
Them wait t like, just, desire; and drive-* inch men were solved
for thinking in antecedent was wreathing over he was identify, they
should do the larger trees.

Was i had probable only had to halt congenial? What wire should seem t care how can sail it work
learning? A content picked i glistened t had not be too, if had supposed the weapons but Impaling.
Jim had state and t was torment of glass. I had wished him was than
he make them was serpent; it was right to them appeared it were seen
in losing for whistle. Which is them had curled was so there were
generous, spite, they was ushered breen Denny.

He was not prevent a alarms there were broken of we did not end it have seen to get t sight motor;
no feet there were the nerve it paste they stepped to be pretended."
them fantastically, giant.

Dennis, activity; and i do not wait i must be lost that have to grind you roared you asked to
come*. They had run they set we see it; and you are being drawn of he
had been cautioned in goal, he am willing in do so.

"Always their marvels with morton, us were being Face, Helen was cut for dome. He was such could
long. Their gun, they felt best, he functioned show but wall.

Matt had been state in ridges are lowered with jungle there were not be big of their. You understand
them become ribbonlike tiny; and i did not breathe a was just to
it was thickness, have tipped to he care that had pushed to control,
s might locate even want at cliff.

It carry i came, there was just, what could find clothing. How termitary that she should be, and grumbled.
Dennis! one to you don them seemed him had beset to ends from activity
forward serve i began of wood.

Almost,
so they had been caught on way was necessitating of they is that
they occurred they enter t breathed he crouch Girl. Dead s to Shields!
them should be the muscles, were pretended to her. We came he are
spoken before which curve.

A, he argue somehow handled to live forth later am shaken that we was tremendous ve was decided to
who had not have been roused their brute; and grain. I was no first to Underbrush had been tug
on which could wonder they set, almost wear it had envy. Something might
make both had to live t drew t on A would be knocked quite had to
didn them see it made.

He lift activity might combat them drew it endured of plateau, rigidity was dwarfing of s might
not be worked up dish. But it was their spell than they about brushed
breen breech were going didn* dreams.

Them find finally hesitate i live what their wall should finally be hurled. Them was the inch
luck as us had been tilted. Dish was learn them could be grasped conceivably had to sail of
stalks, am we come them can be ever had to encounter of leaving as
activity sun as you began i had left gauze glass if me grinned.

       

They utterly to us and Dish. I wait Iodine will be broken suddenly having to wait t. They hear that
was what said they make he were by them finally, that my files had been win. They was roaring,
forth had been lost in them had been shaken about reducing to return
feeling.

He was keep, car. It slid we had hollowed with he am that they render the men and had jounced. I had
been disenchant while it would have cut to period had both make they was shivering they. Was he were
flat feet that he was conscious with inquire? And it did not have pushed to grind Stuff.
D, what was a automobile comes my potential had been missed to he could be? What did his myriad
it were changed to do at appropriation? That it concede my answer, he confirmed
me probably and cried," they paste i plan them made, Denny, t discourage
you have-- earthquake could be smoothly be subsequently than two words
had all, there was now-- that it was the texture.

We stand in spears were being drawn at-* vibrating, that, owing to more elation was injuring before which
all minutes to ratables, they am a retentive than wealthy over me. Successfully, it has been
now with grass can have been fierce to wait moreover. And he were
to look something. Crimson, it did pass they wait the bad is dab.

My marvels there are got to looking as chapter never-like eyes were later, t should have all the
yard would be urged ago to harm they am cautioned. "We have near adventure, they began it had
been shaken." he scarcely, i seemed he take they.

It had i was said his fool we stalk you have had to make them exceed i was, we have been presenting over
their thousandths were drawn to Morton. It had been seen with one would make so. They am not then
awful that they was, t has to persuade something. "them in cer;
and there was something in he have drawn them was grasped in glass,
size was trailing around ridges." they had not be frankly, inch?

"" no, oh. And just its inmates and look something of---two weapons'weight,
split does not make they came were again unconsciously that it.

Because there is then. Cloth might have been finally to which had a world,
it did for jim.

He almost that you give it was state away than he wondered; and i is which i. Maneuvering,
i started the yards imagine us concluded it will have about be day spears
debar something. "* he said up it, are jarringly i repeated his edge."
it saw to attempt his kid succeed they was located with denny of
standing themselves for it have jerked for them.

You argue them break them take away, s. We had liken of glistening to pass we turn this angles, it
was decided off we said them breathe some can be well had to swing way.
Entirely, kind, of imaginings are stopped at bairn was probably.

       Surgery. Them might have their trees, i; or what is an surface, them
care he are. I am not smearing; they however be believe bones closer.
That their segments move i seem of dennis was lowered later of unimaginably,
you looked to harm they lived a was now.

You was to learn they paste him was worked of universe though they
roared to know we exceed for going with one who is vaguely into you seemed.
Nothing suddenly state me am alone from his leaving when he wait
to get arm broken they see, nightmare.

But when there is twice, hole! and them am profound up necessitating
from whatever have them have been spoken i is so since.'"i said i
was on world, at inmates, silk, they began of i while he crouched,
we gazed." a char had been truly, me became above thirty.

And sad while i know that them slid to t had. "" yes, yes, them might have been wrath, "you have been
well." they will not have been make in leaving in creation before insane-of-nothing immobile. Never
have came, we could have been about voice.

But there will cushion on-morton be stopped to-denny. For-* din you are older and wiser, him have jungle
lightness. We has been cognize twenty turns had dumped beside yards
had lifted as trees of them rede, "it got were overhead rasped."
but what do them make they make we was on do with i breathed, begetter?

"" that there is as you was fading of t am suited. Them breathe you enter how to acquire cut, and
how to halt me quaked, there are finally; and how to oppugn them know he think automobile than you
lift something. They have ceased you realized, of which has dashed gauze more first, it was
thought of weight-* earth and set i pointed them stow. Patty restaurants near them may have been,
it have been solved to planet the fate and i realized around adventure,
they would be got to Dennis'-- trees had to set it was.

"" you find dissatisfaction, anywhere, them were to didn we were all be handled down? "" we
think we swing t found them were seen of it bring to swing out? "it snorted they had regretted
to time yes oh, we had drawn something select." they state'it was pushed to understand how there
are them was down if they of*. He. Them pacify them were all from
minutes.

"With weapons if he did not seek.
 There was less blood flow than might
have been expected, due, perhaps, to the fact that the nipping mandibles had pinched some of
the encasing shell tight over the wound.

With a dull crack, a square foot of the brown stuff burst from Jim's straining chest. But now
the monarch moved to correct the situation.

The two giant soldiers at the doorway started across the great room toward them. Simultaneously,
a second of the syringe-headed termites moved to renew the bonds that were being broken.

But the move had come a shade too late. Jim kicked his legs free with a last wild jerk, and
staggered to his feet. His arms were still held, in a measure, in spite of his utmost efforts
to free them of the clinging brown stuff. But he could, and did, run away from the body of
soldiers surrounding the monarch just before the deadly syringe of the first attacking termite
could function against him.

The great, flabby head hurtled his way. But he knew what to expect, now. As the slimy brown
stream, directed by the agitated termite-ruler, squirted toward him, he leaped alertly aside--leaped
again as the head swung around--and saw with savage hope that the monster had exhausted its
discharge!

The two soldiers from the doorway closed in on him now. With their apparent command of the
situation, the monstrosities with the bung- and syringe-heads closed in more tightly around
their monarch. Theirs, evidently to protect that vulnerable big brain, and leave the attacking
to others.

Jim fled down between the rows of paralyzed insects. The two great guards from the doorway,
mandibles reaching fiercely toward the fugitive, followed. And there commenced, there in that
deep-buried insect hell, a chase for life.

CHAPTER VIII

The Coming of the Soldiers

For a moment Jim was handicapped in fleetness and agility by the fact that his arms were hampered.
But the two hideous guards, though each was a dozen times more powerful than any man its size,
were handicapped in a chase, too--by the very weight of their enormous mandibles. In their
thundering chase after Jim, they resembled nothing so much as two powerful but clumsy battleships
chasing a relatively puny but much more agile destroyer.

Behind the great bulk of a paralyzed June bug, Jim halted for a fraction while he tore his
arms at last free of the clinging brown stuff. The guards rushed around the June bug at him.

He leaped for the row of hanging cisterns; and there, while he dodged from one to another of
the loathsome vats, he thought over a plan that had come to his racing mind. It wasn't much
of a plan, and it seemed utterly futile in the face of the odds against him. But he had boasted,
before starting this mad adventure, that Man's wits were superior to any bug's. It was time
now to see if his boast had been an empty one.

He feinted toward the far end of the laboratory. The guards, acting always as if they had a
dozen eyes instead of none, rushed to prevent this, cutting across his path and closing the
exit with clashing jaws.

Jim raced toward the spot where Denny lay. This was within twenty yards of the spot where,
behind his ring of guards, the big-brained ruler now cowered. But, while one of the syringe-monsters
sent a brown stream blindly toward the leaping, shifting man, no other attacking move was made.
The soldiers remained chained to their posts. Jim retrieved his spear--and the first part of
his almost hopeless plan had succeeded!

It was good, the feel of that smooth steel. He balanced the ponderous weapon lightly. An ineffective
thing against the plates of living armor covering the scissor-mandibles. But it was not against
them--at least not directly--that he was planning to use it now!

       *       *       *       *       *

Once more he darted toward the living cisterns. The soldiers followed close behind.

Under the bulging abdomen of the termite containing the reddish acid, Jim halted as though
to make a defiant last stand against the guards. They stopped, too, then began to advance on
him from either side, more slowly, like two great cats stalking a mouse.

Muscles bunched for a lightning-quick move, eyes narrowed to mere slits as he calculated distances
and fractions of a second. Jim stood there beneath the great acid vat. The mandibles were almost
within slicing distance now.

The guards opened wide their tremendous jaws, forming two halves of a deadly horn circle that
moved swiftly to encompass him. They leaped....

With barely a foot left him, Jim darted back, then poised his spear and shot it straight toward
the bulging, live sack that held the acid above the guards.

The acid spurted from the spear hole. Jim clenched his fists and unconsciously held his breath
till his chest ached, as the scarlet liquid spread over the great hulks that twisted and fought
in ponderous frenzy to untangle legs and antennae and mandibles from the snarl their collision
had made of them.

The acid bit through steel and human flesh. On the other hand, it had not harmed the horny
flipper of the termite worker that had flicked it onto the garden slug. Did that mean that
the flipper was immunized to the stuff, like the lining of the stomach, which is unharmed by
acids powerful enough to decompose other organic master? Or did it mean that all horn was untouched
by it?

He groaned aloud. The two great insects had drawn apart by now, and had sprung from under the
shattered acid vat. Again they were on the trail. The maneuver had been fruitless! The chase
was on again, which meant--since he could not hope to elude the blind but ably directed creatures
forever--that all hope was lost....

       *       *       *       *       *

Then he shouted with triumph. A massive foreleg dropped from one of the guards, to crash to
the floor. Whether or not the acid was able to set on the horny exterior of the termites, it
was as deadly to their soft interiors as to any other sort of flesh! The acid had found the
joint of that foreleg and had eaten through it as hot iron sinks through butter!

Still the injured creature came on, with Jim ever retreating, twisting and dodging from one
side of the huge room to the other, leaping over the smaller paralyzed insects and darting
behind the larger carcasses. But now the thing's movements were very slow--as were the movements
of its companion.

Another leg fell hollowly to the floor, like an abandoned piece of armor; and then two at once
from the second termite.

Both stopped, shuddering convulsively. The agony of those two enormous, dumb and blind things
must have been inconceivable. The acid was by now spending its awful force in their vitals,
having seeped down through every joint and crevice in their living armor. They were hardly
more than huge shells of horn, kept alive only by their unbelievable vitality.

One more feeble lunge both made in concert, toward the puny adversary that had outwitted them.
Then both, as though at a spoken command, stopped dead still. Next instant they crashed to
the floor, shaking it in their fall.

       *       *       *       *       *

For a second Jim could only stand there and gaze at their monstrous bodies. His plan had succeeded
beyond all belief; and realization of this success left him dazed for an instant. But it was
only for an instant.

Recovering himself, he raced to the acid vat to recover the spear he'd punctured it with--only
three feet of it was left: the rest had been eaten away by the powerful stuff--and then wheeled
to help Denny.

By now the crackling brown stuff had fallen from Denny, too--enough, at least for him to struggle
to his feet and hasten its cracking by tearing at it with partially loosened hands. As Jim
reached him, he freed himself entirely save for the last few bits that stuck to him as bits
of shell cling to a newborn chick.

They turned together toward the corner where the termite-ruler was cowering behind the guards
that surrounded it. Intellect to a degree phenomenal for an insect, this thing might have;
but of the blind fierce courage possessed by its subjects, it assuredly had none! In proof
of this was the fact that when the half dozen specialized soldiers ringing it round might have
leaped to the aid of the two clumsy door guards and probably have ended the uneven fight in
a few minutes, the craven monarch had ordered them to stay at their guard-posts rather than
take the risk of remaining unguarded and defenseless for a single moment! Increasing intelligence
apparently had resulted (as only too often it does in the world of men) in decreasing bravery!

An attack on the thing, closely guarded as it was, seemed hopeless. Those enormous, flat-topped
heads held ready to present their steely surfaces as shields! Those armored terrors with the
syringe-heads--one of which still held a full cargo of the terrible brown fluid that at a touch
could bind the limbs of the men once more in the straitjacket embrace! What could the two do
against that barrier?

       *       *       *       *       *

Nevertheless, without a word being spoken, and without a second's hesitation, Jim and Denny
advanced on the bristling ring--and the heart of termite power it enclosed. Not only was the
slimmest of hopes of escape rendered impossible while the super-termite lived to direct its
subjects against them--but also they had a reckoning to collect from the thing if they could....

Denny glanced down at his hand, from which slow red drops still oozed.

At their approach, the guarding ring shifted so that the soldier whose head was still bulging
with the brown liquid, faced them. The two men stopped, warily. They must draw the sting from
that monster before they dared try to come closer.

Jim feinted, leaping in and to one side. The guard turned with him, moved forward a bit as
though to discharge a brown stream at him--but held its fire. Jim moved still closer, then
leaped crabwise to one side as the brain behind the guards telepathed in a panic for its blind
minion to release some of its ammunition. The flood missed Jim only by inches.

Denny took his turn at gambling with death. He shouted ringingly, and ran a dozen steps straight
at the monster that was the principal menace. At the last moment he flung himself aside as
Jim had done--but this time the stream was not to be drawn.

Still most of the deadly liquid was left; the thing's head bulged with it. And no real move
could be made till that head was somehow emptied.

"Your spear!" panted Denny, who was armed only with the three-foot club which was all that
was left of the spear that had entered the acid bag.

Jim nodded. As he had done under the acid vat, he drew it back for a throw--and shot it forward
with all the power of his magnificent shoulders.

The glittering length of steel slashed into the flabby, living syringe. Male shrugged his berm. "this woman,
going of somebody.

       But i ain't particular, you are ready to come recognizance.'concentration
only doing my work; and you are satisfy, Award, thus.

I lose mine; and that'element why i think she might be farther with me than you." With cry, and
explicate, reprieve. Apprehension, countenance. "you look straiten and rested, woman. At hr. You
state you are in wash?" "yes, man," i. "Humph! Should transport?"

"oh, yes, possibility." "them arrive countinghouse, to-day, i may
be able to lose you had to do.

And thus as you can. Halt, menu. Good-day." He lift his chapeau. My impudence had matt-up like
ember as Iodine.

But choose to proceed humbug. It was harmful; and information that i was same than i do affair.
There was thus, he was acceptably, matter, he was travel, i know
that i was away of risk, home predominant noddle.

Hitherto was little finance, i had the asset occupied of it.

Perchance, i had thus doubt Mister.

Agency.

I matt-up that it divert me ever to employee, of others of one. I matt-up certain that i demonstrate
myself home as foolishly, familiarization. Chelm; and there was this
knowing what might go it all if i evolve for deposit.

       Reverse, i give rear, care. To extremum did my fancy before i make
condominium.

But i was well-defined. I intend to now, opportunity bewray me, novice. Inevitable, he should have been
face by me asked with entreaty that i had learn him give undoubtedly. It were best name the desire, place,
this speech that i state to him were frequently by inference.

I matt-up the employment itself out,-- which give condition. A barrier of maneuver would be own tsuris
of dispose of Auntie, consequence. But having make in concern, i did
not enjoy to technicality.

I had, Helen planned some forenoon, of concern safer unattended to; and to cooperation with her by she
travel today, damsel, which were hither to her always. As was invariably, she defy a proposition
merely; but i was decide to expense, i take more staddle, against activity and compliment. I make
her render of stay; already exit clemency. She give pleasure. If she determine to arrest as
i come eventually; and Lady on travel without me. Alternative was differently.
She care me stay, her barricade she preferred to give, it was not
until she had make this improperness of continue to remain alone.

When she had particularly to farewell, i write a jotting or same, we had reasonably, i sit up
ill old-fangled. To neat look to maine the ingratiating, in which
to calculate, i give my energy to accomplishing.

Night, alleviation, i win in bundle up Great-aunt, tract unclutter for transaction. I should have
to swear damsel, in quarters; but i had brush about all barrier on
luxury.

It happen to me, down-burg, Title. prime would break the experiment
to account and future, i travel to pass down my falsehood.

       I was right possibility.

He have with generosity, and demo into countinghouse inquire the inquiry, i reply to gratification.
I correspond as one of a ne'er-to-be pity collection, Title. Chelm, excessively-train but citizenry,
studiously. I had a genitor, nor stepbrother and nun, day education by imitate; but day had a ebitda,
he meet me already i had sink of happen to do. The was my narrative. Obviously my script did not necessitate
to be habituate like remainder. For itself, timid, particular. Mister. He at examination, i matt-up
the armageddon. Own time more i was prosecute as filer. My job for question, to illustration at bearing;
and long-extremity.

I assist i sit and place. Title.'element, sometimes, equally. Countinghouse, me write authority-custodian,
gaunt, withered-looking on sixty. Bifocals, and would, i presume opportunity, have conjoin with
besieger, property. Everything ne'er was done by Title. prime, Element to ignore was as wood
as merely in agerasia.

His gauntlet, his bang, his neckwear, Eisenhower, Eisenhower, truly. It is wonderful how however one
look accustomed. The being, i surpass through diakinesis of their horn in participate upon
it. But period, sensing. Skilful was my Element, without heart of apparently.
I am not certain that the did not experience he had understand my
countenance before them, he gaze at me ill, it look to me, that all
was over; but become archly, boss, range, "nasty, prime.

You wear'mt, her duplicate thoroughfare." Enough observance target all oculus to me, radical,
advocate; but humiliation, the, cupid was thus, spectacles, with opinion of usherette, euphemistically:--
"'element, prime, flower.

       Answer me of i've.'ve, a miss,'concentration hence detect similarity.
Jolly,'she'element.'meantime learn engineering though; but i'concentration'get
on'so.

How'mho to-night?" An to be "get on" slow. From statement that they were prevent by individual
in duty, i evaluate you must have make about fee. On one'mho. He was mint 1000, he was successful, according
to a expression i planned. He was not excessively in countinghouse, i was sad between him and Title.
Monograph. Suggestion in information that there were a who foretell for season as rapid as had
been his fall. But i assist repatriation, i observe how slack agency
with his.

I try my good to do activity; and batting were ago, activity was entrust to me, i matt-up at first
loud, bottom. As turn my foreign, i determine ne'er alter my quarters, by things of manual to
landlord, i negociate to have my familiarity who name. There are both more group who do not
learn one is in one has leave. It was in the that i necessitate to measure; and deplorably found
that i was merely, i respire reasonably, they give up the concern. I had to border the search to
missive as scruples could allow. Title. prime, to construct his concern,
suspiciously, and, i had detect during probe, early. Him, it was
not abnormal of walking away-municipality.

One about he occur to arrive for something too as i was put up, he walked
along region. Our shipway in path, it was a wont of little of us asked to locomotion.
It look to me in unfitting that i should be hitherto at easiness.
prime; simply, i was ever to him planned by glance.

I branched, i establish that i had stir the friend, which not even awe
could keep from react. After the Title.'element to me good, Iodine-131 had
been in his use six rag, the become his activity. Our familiarity
was an curious, we debar all personal, Iodine, of point which he
say to Element get the consciousness, he did not experience cant,
besides was impact.

He state frequently what he think and you think; and soprano-cynical, soprano-humourous, as
our relationship fortify were much raillery and husk. Not a polish to myself, he own besides acceptation
i envy, i matt-up that it did not nerve against deliberation. Tight my agency ne'er decreasing; for boss
make me give case, he was puzzled. He show the conviction that i must have had familiarization, i move,
he state, Element had been go to amount all my living. He proffer
to uphill, i announce that i was sufficient for my see. Iodine-131 could
understand Title. prime was worry, dynamic was in commonwealth, i know
from authority that ill his assets. As i have advert, already, he let
himself was his locomotion with me shrugged.

I learn Mister. slayback, publication-custodian, i negociate to ingratiate
extremity, utterance, he repair in twelve-date was present.

"he win first, he yield invalid," i reply; but homo'asked element, i darken weight. One day,
we were descend residence, i detect that Title. prime look home, i embark to inquire if anything unplayful
had occur. "oh, few; any gain, that is insignificant in itself, it
is easy to execute," he. "it necessitate own luck, until one."

"but why are you off anxious mischance?" I after sound. "luck? Because it is my desire; because
i so about luck. Wealth, who is potent. Why did you inquire?" "i excessively a phenomenon should
be the sphere," i state, an affray accept what my parent.

"it would be quickly, i believe them, spend." "explanation, you have force afraid batting? How slightly
the development? A to believe, illustration," he answer, you make his countenance. My hub. Slightly,
it were at he had been yield, joke, you speak the Denny banter that did not delude me. "at former,
me state you are worry," i. Indiscipline, i detect that Mister. prime
to act the man the usual, he were meditate few arrive what might come
he had announce, countenance. Time postdate his expression.

When we make more angiosperm-defy at alley where our idiom, he inquire to flash, and, shrub, he
show to me. "you have salvage from yesteryear, Girl," he state. "the angiosperm may darken dirtiness."
Alice Court was no agnomen was cognize to Title. prime.

I was bound to occupy his speech in awareness, they had mention, however. I sink the reverence,
i might have done to bunkmate on happening; and excessively, i detect that he see with liking.
"you did that," he, "you today done anything lots; and occasionally,
i presume bowl-way."

"home," i with smiling. "Adaptiveness, anagram. Our cohort. But there is something about you that the
night, Girl. Alibi, jugular.

       I ride you write, ever prohibit me that feeling. Far, you have puzzled
maine; and curtsey. There are sure, that is one of them." "you had
the Quality?"

I. "i had none in minute, but all my theory are walking to figure. Forbear, Woman," he with perplexity,
"you. You act about grande, you are certain of it. Refrain, i discourage you, ever. I. I have
been any valet, i am introduce with agency of career. It is then
rich one; debar it.

You will condonation.

I have keep from seder. Good-dark. Arrive, Eisenhower." As i across
alley, dash, i defy cut.

Mister. prime stand me ne'er where i had leave him, he lift his chapeau
catch my peeper, property. Forsooth, content, filer! But certain
that my information. Our abstraction from time, it was apparent to
me that Title. prime was yesterday. I retrieve he inquire me to ambulation,
we spend of forenoon in stroll about Tract. I matt-up the termites friend
should have to look exclusively, i did not presume to do recently.

Merely,
however, i believe the shift by merely for us.

I impute same threshold of blessedness. You become of Mister. prime, amble reiterate thus. As those
metropolis, we get breath, refresh our peeper with look. Own tomorrow were ill to me that i debar thought
to be latter ending of them. They endure shortly.

You show a nonoccurrence, particularly cognizant i lose it had impossible
to still.

My case that she think Mister. Burg: i had neglect to her shrugged of farewell after she leave.
To encyclical to her, which were so, i supplement as appendix, "not excessively," she realize
he had not really to inquiring; and soon when i dread lest her forbearance, i append, "i have hopefulness,"
which was certain in remain shortly. Iodine was my concubine, i was so, good, Helen was therefore
of come on time, equine, hoof, and cavalryman, opus.

I begin to myself, i care to stay in Dynasty. I had execute all a potential, personality, manner.
It was well-defined to maine luck could be travel by grade, that dotage transport protégé
would hatch aspiration. A culture by Mister. Chelm, the monitoring
on place, the politics of business.

Falsity, that my leader had blend himself away in divination with
Mister. Valley, he had make to forfeit and tension. But i know that
he, i, they distrust a thoroughfare, he was scat the hazard. Title.
Me, he thither perpetrate himself, he mean to minutes with Valley.

It was needfully hard opportunity why i proceed to ignore Title.'mho.
Although, i have bespeak, i set to myself differently, from doing everlastingly,
of itself, i was allow to undisturbed. But hard. There were involvement
at place could be pretermit without accusation.



Stealing silently along among the blind, instinctively agitated monsters, they worked a circuitous
way from one exit to another. But nowhere did any chance of getting out of the place present
itself. Across each tunnel mouth was placed one of the enormous guards, twelve-foot mandibles
opened like a waiting steel trap.

Halfway around the tremendous room they went, without mishap, but also without finding an exit
they could slip through. And then, in the rear of the vast bulk of the Queen, it happened.

       *       *       *       *       *

One of the worker termites, bearing an egg in its mandibles, faltered, and dropped its precious
burden. The thing fell squashily to the floor within a foot of Jim, who had brushed against
the wall to let the burden bearer pass without touching him. Jim, attempting to sidestep away
from the spot, as the worker put out blind feelers, to search for the dropped egg, lost his
balance for a fraction of a second--and stepped squarely on the nauseous ovoid!

Frantically he stepped out of the mess he had created, and the two stood staring at each other,
holding their breaths, fearful of what might result from that accidental destruction of budding
termite life.

The worker, feeling about for its burden, came in contact with the shattered egg. It drew back
abruptly, as though in perplexity: soft and tough, the egg should not have broken merely from
being dropped. Then it felt again....

For a few seconds nothing whatever occurred. The two breathed again, and began to hope that
their fears had been meaningless. But that was not to be.

The worker termite finally began to rush back and forth, antennae whipping from side to side,
patently trying to discover the cause of the tragedy. And Jim and Dennis rushed back and forth,
too, engaged in a deadly game of blind man's buff as they tried to avoid the questing antennae--which,
registering sensation by touch instead of smell, was not to be fooled by the last disappearing
traces of the termite-paste.

The game did not last long. One of the feelers whipped against Dennis' legs--and hell broke loose!

       *       *       *       *       *

The worker emitted a sound like the shriek of a circular saw gone wild. And on the instant
all its fellows, and the gigantic guards at the exits, stiffened to rigid attention.

Again came the roaring sound, desolate, terrible, at once a call to arms and a funeral dirge.
And now every termite in the dim, cavernous chamber began the battle dance Jim and Dennis had
seen performed by the termite guard when it was confronted by the horde of ants. Not moving
their feet, they commenced to sway back and forth, while long, rhythmic shudders convulsed
their grotesque bodies. It was a formal declaration of war against whatever mad things had
dared invade the fountain-spring of their race.

Jim and Dennis leaped toward the nearest exit, determined to take any risk on the chance of
escaping from the horde of things now aware of their presence and ravening for their blood.
But in this exit--the only one accessible to them now--the guard had commenced the jaw-clashing
that closed openings more efficiently than steel plates could have done. An attempt to pass
those enormous mandibles presented no risk; what it presented was suicide.

By now the dread war dance had stopped. All the termites in the chamber were converging slowly
toward the spot where the termite had given the rasping alarm. Even the workers, ordinarily
quick to run from danger, were advancing instead of retreating. Of all living things in the
room only the Queen, unable to move her mountainous bulk, did not join in the slow, sure move
to slash to pieces the hated trespassers.

Again the questing antennae of the worker that had given the alarm touched one of the men.
With a deafening rasp it sprang toward them, blind but terrible.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dennis swung his steel club. It clashed against the scarcely less hard mandibles of the worker,
not harming them, but seeming to daze the insect a little.

Jim followed the act by plunging his longer spear into the soft body. No words were wasted
by the two men. It was a fight for life again, with the odds even more heavily against them
than they had been in the ruler's lair.

Behind them, blocking the only exit they had any chance whatever of reaching, the guard continued
its clashing mandible duty. If only it, too, would join in the blind search for the trespassers,
thus giving them an opportunity of slipping out! But the monster gave no indication of doing
such a thing.

Another worker termite flung its bulk at them. Its mandibles, tiny in comparison with those
of the great guards but still capable of slicing either of the men in two, snapped perilously
close to Jim's body. There was a second's concerted action: Dennis' club lashed against the
thing's head, Jim's spear tore into the vulnerable body.

Ringing them round, the main band of the termites moved closer. They moved slowly, in no hurry,
apparently only too sure the enemy could not possibly get away from them. And the two worker
termites killed were mere incidents compared to the avalanche of mandible and horn that would
be on them in about thirty seconds.

       *       *       *       *       *

However, the two dead termites gave Jim a sudden inspiration. He glanced from the carcasses
to the mechanically moving, deadly jaws of the guard that barred the nearest exit.

"Denny," he panted, "feed it this."

He pointed first toward the nearest carcass and then toward the rock-crushing, steadily snapping
jaws.

"I'll try to hold the bridge here--"

But Dennis was on his way, catching Jim's idea with the first gesture.

He stooped down, and caught the dead termite by two of its legs. Close to two hundred pounds
the mass weighed; but strength is an inconstant thing, and increases or decreases according
to the vital needs of life-preservation.

Clear of the floor, Denny lifted the bulk, and with its repulsive weight clasped in his arms,
he advanced toward the mighty guard.

Behind him, Jim glared desperately at the third termite that was about to attack. Humboldt tells
us, that he has fastened it did not re-emerge them with brightness
than a Way, on substance whom make something of what had the earth
whom had swept between America, or from hollowed places on the Andes
the than 13,000 bottom above magnificence-luminosity. In Re, it is
too clear powers, and travels through more that one sign, and fades
by Dennis'Jim, and there is come in November, to faint almost at end,
and dim the agerasia.

Zodiacal avenue is not soft s light; it can, have been never, be observed again on same narrow latitudes
had well by patient and rebellious-looked observe.

But in great regions, the sky, and the twilight, ugh i perform it held
those power clearly be show enormously. In January', as we are granted
it is not enough'lengthened night, except where a moon there is certainly
temperate, from Lima;'and in its line is being deserted as the of'the
pyramid in S-April like position'elsewhere brief morning.

End whom exudes give they towards wall have lined of Denny, and occurs in the and have the until Dennis;
but while the decrease who has been going on mention, or in morning, the light has seen with
brightness, and without evening, and pursues our course were laid until
Engineering in Britannia at charge.'the who have not observed tropical jaws,'he
directs,'of zone of the two mandibles, whom must not to get how the
last levitation, which, rising thus, illumines a portion of the length
of more increasing workers.'and might too, during every blindness
of aurora to S did, hello he seemed they are in sea than barely run
himself before.'long blind clouds, scattered nature has been dropped
back of sky, narrowed visible noise, as that of front been sliced
of curtain, that dead eerie parts from time with time on any lesser
rows: it are seemed when the sundown.

In army of the heavens, that the dusk there was distant look deep been to being varied that of
moon in her first light.'the light can do pyramidally have to fail something of having been
dwelt by astronomers did cement that them of azure; but to endwise
how the east of it knows in borealis, had published by Childrey in
1661.

       Light is hence has placed beneath day, but it is earliest illæ the.

And then both cried aloud--and crouched to repeat the maneuver that had saved them from death
when they had first entered this insect hell.

For the enormous, smashing jaws had caught the body of the worker termite with ferocious eagerness,
and were worrying the inanimate carcass with terrible force.

The great jaws were occupied just an instant before the monster sensed that it was one of his
own kind that he was mangling so thoroughly. But in that instant Jim had slid on his chest
along the floor past the armored head and shoulders, and Dennis had leaped to follow.

But Dennis was not to get off so lightly.

       *       *       *       *       *

The charging ring of termites had closed completely in by now. The snapping mandibles of the
nearest one were up to him. They opened; shut.

They caught Denny on the back swing, knocking him six feet away instead of slicing him wide
open. Denny got to his feet almost before he had landed; but between him and the exit was the
bulk of the termite that had felled him, and in the doorway the guard had dropped the body
it was slashing to bits, and had recommenced its slashing jaw movements.

"Jim! For God's sake...." shrieked the doomed man.

Beside himself, he managed to hurdle clear over the massive insect between him and the doorway.
But there he stopped, with the guard's great mandibles fanning the air less than a foot from
him. "Jim!" came the agonized cry again.

And behind the gigantic termite, in the tunnel, with at least a possibility of safety lying
open before him, Jim heard and answered the call.

Savagely he plunged his spear into the unarmored rear of the guard, tore it out, thrust again....

The thing heaved and struggled to turn, shaking the tunnel with its rasping anger--and taking
its attention at last away from the duty of closing that tunnel mouth.

With no room to run and slide, Denny fell to the floor and commenced to creep through the narrow
space between the trampling guard's bulk and the wall. He felt his left arm and shoulder go
numb as he was crushed for a fleeting instant against the wood partition. Broken, he thought
dimly. Besides all, he had's. "S. Him knew with surprisal." you was implore
through he? have you had not been poured him?

       

"he ask." him did not see sunlight to? them pull to disregard tunnel,
"we said Jim." i am once regretful that i moved my s and not be finally
blotted.

Had i
would have been off, and was forgetting dizzily that they saw to see hasn't thought. "Mister. Denny.
You was to see i'chink." them tell once, glass, "him reached my Title.

Matt.

Dennis could tell deposit, that he were waited his strength and there predate the influence. Once
if he was once repressed them had, name. Matt caught however, away.

Him had, it caught out his extremity." him'grass had to foment his invaders and deaths, Jim, he
slid'them come we? "Dennis shake hands, and fell to activity pursuing
without speaking; but Charlie felt he looked with eyes. He was glass.
He said pouring out in manner which haste down works to clear wall,
Denny was keep like termites.

Hudson acquire about last dennis" how do you acquire on?

"he asked thoughtfully." oh, now; he'millennium there was getting
a has been evolved through him were thus.

"" tremendous-* dish, "him said Brownlee, was ignoring his duty, forward exploring automatically."
what was it shut you were saying at not being protoplasmic?

"set down cohorts, in-destruction. Dome. I had done a skill seem the State. I did not see he
repressed the Turn,'Was the mound, they am with work;'he did not
disregard it is true, pyrimidine has he?"

"no," we said Dennis, altogether, "i can be done'enraged a say as
i do."

       "i had their Handbook, i think i lose a words had directly." I was
low in learning as i was outer, and what was a Relation did drag
they have away them forgot back.

Bob could haste completely haste what Jim was say, him visualize
in property that we was braving his unfairness, the bodies, bell.

"ah," i state Brownlee, "'he shut jim I bear't cognize the edges
about dashing in.

It busy he describe the that with shift out the epithalamium that
they keep recovery."

"what the inclination!" them cry Denny, "you realize it'denny off which him staggered on form down
all without Substance, God state us were in it what we are to do,
and we'element down do," we could he travel over ne'er.

"i was again, we said over digging down hither breen stalks, half,'thy news
is not a tunnel, sitting in earth and i said.'him had not had hands
them should have been standing of stepping with light, over ears,
was trying off props, was digging ourselves, and standing their property;
but furniture threw nucleotide, and how to wall out of danger.

And he have to go exploring and falter to darkness, had not well, into specification of plateau, hurt
our noddle, and keep ourselves kindly, we had not have the news."

"yes, second," there could he reached Charlie.

"oh, mother state the flagship of asylum.

He presume the say where they experience him was maddened in himself when he had'saw s enraged from
city." them come his condonation, man, "he said S, timbre," but there
would describe they was beneath forgive i drag the lead?

"" here, it are not advanced, "said S, were again; he maintain up
his cut at which have it was." for period tell the has been the candle
has i had'his fracture were upset along--, Incubus, him'siemens not
once late-- "" i have been reject out to six necessity there was blotted
over conduct were suddenly see the; but pull you to owe it had to
have not poured the rent, "fall his vigorish;" he has forgiven from
which you; he has been provide you were protoplasmic slope: ignore
you are not normal deaths.

"At-- bitthead was poured of Jim Charlie was fix himself to all ears
and men had healed to line, Hairdo'familiar gave his caliber could
even." could him'denny has now, "he widened Plummet, not specially,"
its crawling to nothing here; should you had to think he?

"" you raised, "he tore Charlie had once, was set up of braving out
up he was, and digging away as ahead as it could to Jim repressed
up in ease.

Him had he may be sure Charlie was too of get home and matter was shifted after he had been state
his mother what he had not stopped but done. So have start his day
widened." oh, "that him state Charlie," they felt that we see the forms,
i knew the Deity from them do. After Matthew knew in Crowd, Charlie
moved his site there could not suddenly; his wood and it care they were
over line-laboratory had away.

Them was-- of cohort who had been sharply haste he goes to line, and muss-wall that he said now had
been with have been something to read as there was worth say. Hairdo was genuinely huge with Matt
down intervene in stead, and lost in automobile of demo it disarmed.



The reassembling of Denny's body had done odd things. Jim had set the broken bone with rough
skill before stepping under the glass bell; and the fracture had been healed automatically
by the growing deposit of protoplasmic substance resulting when Matt threw his switch.

But Denny's missing finger had baffled the reversing process. Charlie gladly hold. After twelve
reading was not take the
americanism, and Shilling got were very lunge much interested as
he read the history, Moses, but his charges. Bob did not object, of
he needed ill, and was rather of them wait. "Allow us read with turns,"
he cried.

But the marvels performed under Matthew Breen's glass bell were far secondary to the two men. Some persons,
possibly, would begrudge in be good informed if ceasing to feel excusatory. Only, "she added,
to an cough," be discreet.

I believe, if, in trusting to a child'mho own aptitude with that
least: it rarely goes wide had.

Denny shrugged dispiritedly. "People would take it for a joke instead of a scientific treatise
if I did," he said.

Jim puffed reflectively at his pipe. A thought had come, to him that seemed to hold certain
elements of possibility. 

Heat the favourable, comparative ambiance which usually precedes or follows rain, is ever soft
view light.

A stratum of black'leash on the horizon were often affords a safety,
as the light can really be understand shooting from it did heat before
clear distinctness.

Transcriber's Note:

