While they were at Taboga, the governor of Panama sent a message to Captain Sawkins inquiring
why he came to this locality. Captain Sawkins replied, "We came to assist the Indian King of
Darien, who is the true lord of Panama and all the country round about. Since we came so far,
there seems to be no reason why we should not have some satisfaction. Accordingly, if you will
send us five hundred pieces of eight for each man and a thousand for each commander and will
promise no longer to annoy the Indians or deprive them of their liberty, we will go away peaceably:
otherwise, we will stay here, get what we can and cause all the damage possible to you."

In answer to this, the governor inquired by messenger--"From whom do you have your commission
and to whom shall I complain for the damages which you have already done?"

The reply of Captain Sawkins to this message was prompt and decisive, for he said, "All my
company have not yet arrived, but as soon as they come, we will visit you at Panama and bring
our commissions on the muzzles of our guns, at which time you may read them as plain as the
flame of gunpowder can make them."

On the 22nd of May, Captains Sawkins and Sharp took with them about sixty men and attacked
the town of Pueblo Nueva. The buccaneers found that the inhabitants of this town were well
prepared for the defense. They had cut down great trees and laid them across the narrow river
which led to their town in such a way as to prevent the ascent of any boats.

Sawkins and his followers landed at the mouth of the river and made their way by land until
they reached some heavy breastworks which had been thrown up by the Spaniards. With undaunted
courage, Sawkins stormed the defenses, and was killed at the head of his men. His loss was
a sad one to the pirates, because they regarded him as their most valiant leader, and because,
next to Captain Sharp, he was best beloved by them. In fact, his loss meant the desertion of
a number more of the buccaneers, who left their companions and returned over land, as Captain
Coxon and his officers had done.

Thus all the adventurers who wished to remain in the South Seas and still further ravage the
coast of South America, elected Captain Sharp commander-in-chief, and vowed themselves to be
faithful to him in all things. A large number, however, of the pirates deserted, preferring
the dangers of land travel in the rainy season to continued adventure in the South Seas.

Basil Ringrose was among those who were tired of the expedition and wished to return home,
but he finally decided to remain with Captain Sharp because of the great difficulties he foresaw
in returning by the shorter way.

It was the last day of May when the mutineers departed, and it was on the sixth of June, a
dark and rainy day, that they set sail on the long and adventurous voyage. Almost from the
start they met with most vexatious delays which gave an opportunity for the Spanish on shore
to send ahead news of their coming. In consequence of this, they were almost everywhere expected,
and most of the towns which were unable to defend themselves succeeded in concealing their
wealth, provisions and supplies so that the buccaneers were unable to seize treasures of any
great value. As a whole, the voyage was a disappointment, but from time to time the adventurers
succeeded in taking sufficient food and occasionally gold and silver in such quantities that
the voyage was somewhat profitable to those who survived.

The journal of Ringrose is full of interesting little details, which show how exciting the
trip must have been, and how great were the perils and privations of its followers.

In one place we find them anchored for four or five days, trying to dry their sails so that
they could be able to take them down and repair the hull of their ship, yet all the time the
rain fell in such torrents that they were unable to work. At another place he tells of killing
a snake which was fourteen inches in circumference and eleven feet in length. On this part
of the coast they saw every day whales and grampuses, which often came and dived under the
ship, and although the men fired at them several times, the bullets rebounded from their tough
skins. At this place, too, the best food consisted of Indian conies, snakes, oysters, periwinkles,
a few small turtles and a variety of small fish.

Again, we find some of the most valuable of the men dying from malignant fevers, and all suffering
from want of provisions. For a long time they had nothing but flour and water, and then again
they were able to revel in small particles of meat, with a good supply of sugar which they
took from some of the mills along the coast. Now and then they seized a flock of goats, and
then for days the feasting was continuous, while the surplus flesh was salted and stored away
for future use.

On the 24th of August they discovered a vessel some distance from them, and because of the
darkness, ran very close to it before they were discovered. When they were within hail, they
called in Spanish to the ship and commanded it to lower its sails. "Not we," replied the Spaniards;
"we will soon make you lower your own." The pirates immediately fired upon them, and they responded
at a lively rate from their own guns. For half an hour or more the fight was very brisk, and
undoubtedly would have lasted much longer had not the buccaneers been fortunate enough to kill
the man at the helm, after which no one of the Spaniards dared to take his place, and the ship
drifted aimlessly. About the same time another lucky shot tore off the mainsail, and seeing
their helpless condition, the Spaniards begged for quarter and gave up their ship. Afterwards
they declared that they fought the pirates only out of bravado, for they had agreed on a wager
before they left shore to do so in case they met with Captain Sharp. Although the fight was
short, the pirates themselves had suffered considerable damage to their ship, and several of
their men were sadly wounded.

The captain of the captured vessel gave the buccaneers a great deal of information as to what
had happened after they left Panama, and also as to the preparations which were being made
to defend the towns against the adventurers, and to capture the vessel if possible whenever
it appeared.

At Tumbes they heard that this was the first settlement made by the Spanish after Panama, and
that at the time of the settlement a priest went ashore with a cross in his hand, while ten
thousand Indians gathered on the hillsides and stood watching him. As he landed, two lions
came out of the woods toward him, but when he laid the cross gently over their backs, they
fell down and worshiped him; moreover, two tigers following did the same thing. The Indians
seeing these wonderful things recognized the power of the Christian religion and at once embraced
it.

