EQUALITY"

By Charles Dudley Warner

In accordance with the advice of Diogenes of Apollonia in the beginning of his treatise on
Natural Philosophy--"It appears to me to be well for every one who commences any sort of philosophical
treatise to lay down some undeniable principle to start with"--we offer this:

        All men are created unequal.

It would be a most interesting study to trace the growth in the world of the doctrine of "equality."
That is not the purpose of this essay, any further than is necessary for definition. We use
the term in its popular sense, in the meaning, somewhat vague, it is true, which it has had
since the middle of the eighteenth century. In the popular apprehension it is apt to be confounded
with uniformity; and this not without reason, since in many applications of the theory the
tendency is to produce likeness or uniformity. Nature, with equal laws, tends always to diversity;
and doubtless the just notion of equality in human affairs consists with unlikeness. Our purpose
is to note some of the tendencies of the dogma as it is at present understood by a considerable
portion of mankind.

We regard the formulated doctrine as modern. It would be too much to say that some notion of
the "equality of men" did not underlie the socialistic and communistic ideas which prevailed
from time to time in the ancient world, and broke out with volcanic violence in the Grecian
and Roman communities. But those popular movements seem to us rather blind struggles against
physical evils, and to be distinguished from those more intelligent actions based upon the
theory which began to stir Europe prior to the Reformation.

It is sufficient for our purpose to take the well-defined theory of modern times. Whether the
ideal republic of Plato was merely a convenient form for philosophical speculation, or whether,
as the greatest authority on political economy in Germany, Dr. William Roscher, thinks, it
"was no mere fancy"; whether Plato's notion of the identity of man and the State is compatible
with the theory of equality, or whether it is, as many communists say, indispensable to it,
we need not here discuss. It is true that in his Republic almost all the social theories which
have been deduced from the modern proclamation of equality are elaborated. There was to be
a community of property, and also a community of wives and children. The equality of the sexes
was insisted on to the extent of living in common, identical education and pursuits, equal
share in all labors, in occupations, and in government. Between the sexes there was allowed
only one ultimate difference. The Greeks, as Professor Jowett says, had noble conceptions of
womanhood; but Plato's ideal for the sexes had no counterpart in their actual life, nor could
they have understood the sort of equality upon which he insisted. The same is true of the Romans
throughout their history.

More than any other Oriental peoples the Egyptians of the Ancient Empire entertained the idea
of the equality of the sexes; but the equality of man was not conceived by them. Still less
did any notion of it exist in the Jewish state. It was the fashion with the socialists of 1793,
as it has been with the international assemblages at Geneva in our own day, to trace the genesis
of their notions back to the first Christian age. The far-reaching influence of the new gospel
in the liberation of the human mind and in promoting just and divinely-ordered relations among
men is admitted; its origination of the social and political dogma we are considering is denied.
We do not find that Christ himself anywhere expressed it or acted on it. He associated with
the lowly, the vile, the outcast; he taught that all men, irrespective of rank or possessions,
are sinners, and in equal need of help. But he attempted no change in the conditions of society.
The "communism" of the early Christians was the temporary relation of a persecuted and isolated
sect, drawn together by common necessities and dangers, and by the new enthusiasm of self-surrender.
(Principles of Political Economy. By William Roscher. Note to Section LXXXI. English translation.
New York: Henry Holt & Co. 1878.)]--Paul announced the universal brotherhood of man, but he
as clearly recognized the subordination of society, in the duties of ruler and subject, master
and slave, and in all the domestic relations; and although his gospel may be interpreted to
contain the elements of revolution, it is not probable that he undertook to inculcate, by the
proclamation of "universal brotherhood," anything more than the duty of universal sympathy
between all peoples and classes as society then existed.

If Christianity has been and is the force in promoting and shaping civilization that we regard
it, we may be sure that it is not as a political agent, or an annuller of the inequalities
of life, that we are to expect aid from it. Its office, or rather one of its chief offices
on earth, is to diffuse through the world, regardless of condition or possessions or talent
or opportunity, sympathy and a recognition of the value of manhood underlying every lot and
every diversity--a value not measured by earthly accidents, but by heavenly standards. This
we understand to be "Christian equality." Of course it consists with inequalities of condition,
with subordination, discipline, obedience; to obey and serve is as honorable as to command
and to be served.

If the religion of Christ should ever be acclimated on earth, the result would not be the removal
of hardships and suffering, or of the necessity of self-sacrifice; but the bitterness and discontent
at unequal conditions would measurably disappear. At the bar of Christianity the poor man is
the equal of the rich, and the learned of the unlearned, since intellectual acquisition is
no guarantee of moral worth. The content that Christianity would bring to our perturbed society
would come from the practical recognition of the truth that all conditions may be equally honorable.
The assertion of the dignity of man and of labor is, we imagine, the sum and substance of the
equality and communism of the New Testament. But we are to remember that this is not merely
a "gospel for the poor."

Whatever the theories of the ancient world were, the development of democratic ideas is sufficiently
marked in the fifteenth century, and even in the fourteenth, to rob the eighteenth of the credit
of originating the doctrine of equality. To mention only one of the early writers,--[For copious
references to authorities on the spread of communistic and socialistic ideas and libertine
community of goods and women in four periods of the world's history--namely, at the time of
the decline of Greece, in the degeneration of the Roman republic, among the moderns in the
age of the Reformation, and again in our own day--see Roscher's Political Economy, notes to
Section LXXIX., et seq.] --Marsilio, a physician of Padua, in 1324, said that the laws ought
to be made by all the citizens; and he based this sovereignty of the people upon the greater
likelihood of laws being better obeyed, and also being good laws, when they were made by the
whole body of the persons affected.

In 1750 and 1753, J. J. Rousseau published his two discourses on questions proposed by the
Academy of Dijon: "Has the Restoration of Sciences Contributed to Purify or to Corrupt Manners?"
and "What is the Origin of Inequality among Men, and is it Authorized by Natural Law?" These
questions show the direction and the advance of thinking on social topics in the middle of
the eighteenth century. Rousseau's Contrat-Social and the novel Emile were published in 1761.

But almost three-quarters of a century before, in 1690, John Locke published his two treatises
on government. Rousseau was familiar with them. Mr. John Morley, in his admirable study of
Rousseau, [Rousseau. By John Morley. London: Chapman & Hall. 1873--I have used it freely in
the glance at this period.]--fully discusses the latter's obligation to Locke; and the exposition
leaves Rousseau little credit for originality, but considerable for illogical misconception.
He was, in fact, the most illogical of great men, and the most inconsistent even of geniuses.
The Contrat-Social is a reaction in many things from the discourses, and Emile is almost an
entire reaction, especially in the theory of education, from both.

His central doctrine of popular sovereignty was taken from Locke. But a state of liberty is
not a state of license. We cannot exceed our own rights without assailing the rights of others.
There is no such subordination as authorizes us to destroy one another. As every one is bound
to preserve himself, so he is bound to preserve the rest of mankind, and except to do justice
upon an offender we may not impair the life, liberty, health, or goods of another. Here Locke
deduces the power that one man may have over another; community could not exist if transgressors
were not punished. Every wrongdoer places himself in "a state of war." Here is the difference
between the state of nature and the state of war, which men, says Locke, have confounded--alluding
probably to Hobbes's notion of the lawlessness of human society in the original condition.

The portion of Locke's treatise which was not accepted by the French theorists was that relating
to property. Property in lands or goods is due wholly and only to the labor man has put into
it. By labor he has removed it from the common state in which nature has placed it, and annexed
something to it that excludes the common rights of other men.

Rousseau borrowed from Hobbes as well as from Locke in his conception of popular sovereignty;
but this was not his only lack of originality. His discourse on primitive society, his unscientific
and unhistoric notions about the original condition of man, were those common in the middle
of the eighteenth century. All the thinkers and philosophers and fine ladies and gentlemen
assumed a certain state of nature, and built upon it, out of words and phrases, an airy and
easy reconstruction of society, without a thought of investigating the past, or inquiring into
the development of mankind. Every one talked of "the state of nature" as if he knew all about
it. That was the age when solitary Frenchmen plunged into the wilderness of North America,
confidently expecting to recover the golden age under the shelter of a wigwam and in the society
of a squaw.

The state of nature of Rousseau was a state in which inequality did not exist, and with a fervid
rhetoric he tried to persuade his readers that it was the happier state. He recognized inequality,
it is true, as a word of two different meanings: first, physical inequality, difference of
age, strength, health, and of intelligence and character; second, moral and political inequality,
difference of privileges which some enjoy to the detriment of others-such as riches, honor,
power. The first difference is established by nature, the second by man. So long, however,
as the state of nature endures, no disadvantages flow from the natural inequalities.

