"Why, let them go to the hospital," said Dalgarno, "or to the bridge- end, to sell switches.
The king is a better man than my father, and you see those who have served in HIS wars do so
every day; or, when their blue coats were well worn out, they would make rare scarecrows. Here
is a fellow, now, comes down the walk; the stoutest raven dared not come within a yard of that
copper nose. I tell you, there is more service, as you will soon see, in my valet of the chamber,
and such a lither lad as my page Lutin, than there is in a score of these old memorials of
the Douglas wars, [Footnote: The cruel civil wars waged by the Scottish barons during the minority
of James VI., had the name from the figure made in them by the celebrated James Douglas, Earl
of Morton. Both sides executed their prisoners without mercy or favour.] where they cut each
other's throats for the chance of finding twelve pennies Scots on the person of the slain.
Marry, my lord, to make amends, they will eat mouldy victuals, and drink stale ale, as if their
bellies were puncheons.--But the dinner-bell is going to sound-- hark, it is clearing its rusty
throat, with a preliminary jowl. That is another clamorous relic of antiquity, that, were I
master, should soon be at the bottom of the Thames. How the foul fiend can it interest the
peasants and mechanics in the Strand, to know that the Earl of Huntinglen is sitting down to
dinner? But my father looks our way--we must not be late for the grace, or we shall be in DIS-grace,
if you will forgive a quibble which would have made his Majesty laugh. You will find us all
of a piece, and, having been accustomed to eat in saucers abroad, I am ashamed you should witness
our larded capons, our mountains of beef, and oceans of brewis, as large as Highland hills
and lochs; but you shall see better cheer to-morrow. Where lodge you? I will call for you.
I must be your guide through the peopled desert, to certain enchanted lands, which you will
scarce discover without chart and pilot. Where lodge you?"

"I will meet you in Paul's," said Nigel, a good deal embarrassed, "at any hour you please to name."

"O, you would be private," said the young lord; "nay, fear not me--I will be no intruder. But
we have attained this huge larder of flesh, fowl, and fish. I marvel the oaken boards groan
not under it."

They had indeed arrived in the dining-parlour of the mansion, where the table was superabundantly
loaded, and where the number of attendants, to a certain extent, vindicated the sarcasms of
the young nobleman. The chaplain, and Sir Mungo Malagrowther, were of the party. The latter
complimented Lord Glenvarloch upon the impression he had made at Court. "One would have thought
ye had brought the apple of discord in your pouch, my lord, or that you were the very firebrand
of whilk Althea was delivered, and that she had lain-in in a barrel of gunpowder, for the king,
and the prince, and the duke, have been by the lugs about ye, and so have many more, that kendna
before this blessed day that there was such a man living on the face of the earth."

"Mind your victuals, Sir Mungo," said the earl; "they get cold while you talk." "Troth, and
that needsna, my lord," said the knight; "your lordship's dinners seldom scald one's mouth--the
serving-men are turning auld, like oursells, my lord, and it is far between the kitchen and
the ha'."

