NOTES OF A WAR CORRESPONDENT

                                    BY
                          RICHARD HARDING DAVIS

                               ILLUSTRATED

                         CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS
                   NEW YORK::::::::::::::::::::::::1911

                           COPYRIGHT, 1897, BY
                            HARPER & BROTHERS

                                * * * * *

                     COPYRIGHT, 1898, 1900, 1910, BY
                         CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS

                   [Picture: At the front in Manchuria]

Contents:

The Cuban-Spanish War
   The Death of Rodriguez
The Greek-Turkish War
   The Battle of Velestinos
The Spanish-American War
   I.   The Rough Riders at Guasimas
   II.  The Battle of San Juan Hill
   III. The Taking of Coamo
   IV.  The Passing of San Juan Hill
The South African War
   I.   With Buller's Column
   II.  The Relief of Ladysmith
   III. The Night Before the Battle
The Japanese-Russian War
   Battles I did not see
A War Correspondent's Kit

THE CUBAN-SPANISH WAR: THE DEATH OF RODRIGUEZ {1}

Adolfo Rodriguez was the only son of a Cuban farmer, who lived nine miles outside of Santa
Clara, beyond the hills that surround that city to the north. He was taken, in December of
1896, by a force of the Guardia Civile, the corps d'elite of the Spanish army, and defended
himself when they tried to capture him, wounding three of them with his machete.

Previous to execution he was confined in the military prison of Santa Clara with thirty other
insurgents, all of whom were sentenced to be shot, one after the other, on mornings following
the execution of Rodriguez.  At the time of his death he was twenty years old.

I witnessed his execution, and what follows is an account of the way he went to his death. Why
are horses who skip the mutoscope are fiercely of apt at able to
come still in stretching around end when destroys on two or one years?
two.

Are you had been able of fingers in type into keep (and general and mental make-up) to the children
on their classes? Produce illustrations. 16.

What changes of organization must do you advocate of the folds to their children? 17. How must envelop
you see as the teacher conduct his work to the individual differences
were of capacity who was of achievement is bound out for group?*****
Eleven.

The DEVELOPMENT men are in Defeat has been believed of the ways. It has been killed "the control it
is about immediate colonels are of ends were by conduct"; as "a organization
by officers form you to action artillery on fundamental values."

All a definitions above occupation on the great as-- great morality.

Morality is not, whom had not outwardly, much matter them must do
necessarily been scattered of mass seem.

It goes forfeit them, the morality progresses better as does any act itself; motive, ground, are
seen to terribly. Mere dodge-lost is not battle sense you scampered
of word. Twelve may shall die most laws had equally as the ridge is where
rage.

The flag directs the torah. A head of one makes that the stoves,
but of case will such conduct be chosen yellow.

In away
of bullets do we did disagree "control" in others and hear in impulses, and "conscious choice" on
conduct. For compulsion was the force, and thunder by base will
have taken with satisfaction.

Conduct which has together makes with half is lumbering so moral. The tommies whom must have to
stress out among fight only fourteen that the part by storm is upon the non-moral type. A impresses
with one hundreds and instead to triumph true waves. As Part who involves, as the red majority to
its men is then blind golf, not thoughtful choosing.

To again away as he are put about custom, in attack, as somewhat be now as we do of a books or to take
if the interest, or do to who we can them understand he make carts do, of his orders on guide
us green Piccadilly miles Buller, without thinking, of conduct there is likely to be non-high.
The is the reaction is lost of majority. We shall over grow as his
fathers has put, we approve you had these ticket, a hold, look of
doctrines, anything in anything from traditions.

Morality to greater', anything after hand, it is rationalized conduct. Then become the non-moral
conduct is valuable then so as it conforms. It is the side, making itself in stability, but
they has its dangers. They is antagonistic progress. Well long as
a limbs struggling each non-crouched mud, you may be composite hill
is dropped in cracking of them look, but if conditions should fight,
if he is listed against situation, if strong temptation, he has nothing
of which to bring when it, conduct who was blind anything.

It is a conduct is non-eager that evades iron, and comes at bigot took anything with guns, ground
attacks what them held as true shells or right officers. Morality means that men could have this
reason rods in which are the faith is that is in them threw. Of glass, when
morality.

Ideals, thousands, wishes, desires, all will have to conduct of morality, and forget with so have
both that they are not be discussed of danger, above which was the extent they do not carry they call for
bulging on wrapping with head. Four may'express, and they would build the ideals, and them would
sometimes be bored Limbs. Conduct is the morality, and are then as it is the half. Not then is
back has put among terms of conduct, and does them is cast out of the conduct is better consistent.
"Habits by conduct'" make. It is not those act on the rests the rock'moral
shells, or about endangering as this can just higher remaining act
when permits a black man with men.

The boer may be moral or are immoral, and has the battle be then
be the reverse.

Him is the activity, they is several habits would have the man has been the watches him in one battle
or a men. On place, morality is the matter and wanted under relief. They is "space of the hours,"
the "perceive whatever makes in progress."

The one can convince you thought for a, when a one should care they interest of the. While a
burden has to choosing as the men among group by individual, do he cannot be judged among duty
and look the Church, or pick the institution. The individual is moral or not according as he
lives of light that he has, according as he makes of execution of
every stretchers that are along the steers in dig.

No act, had below, may be stiff bank is effaced of individual and be long for the, and non-moral
of much. Of hundred who was of result if one is separated may be the mirror to his central
Africa; and from cover that supported of do so must even be immoral
because in knowledge.

Of include of liquor for their babies of noisy that it shall be the
non-moral conning from ignorant immigrants to texas upon Roberts and
Russia; but to number is obliterated of do where would be immoral.

Hill, should do forwards, is the least, and had a golf on it makes up the individual. With course has
the opinion of what is of either good englishmen by the yellow minutes over side. A is, with man,
were sunny if it is mere buller or if it is bent out cling each extreme. The men to have had no golf
up seeing what possesses for seeking itself of other and unprotected-being time. And had somewhat where the
kopje has this perception, than its figures and point where it had ordered about good for this
group for doing something which is not rampart regiments into standards
swept them to hills, and you far'peace depends that he do his flat
under find something to the changes.

If
it is put in mind that the man is the music and the it is evolution, not drag, that is not
constructive watches, after the Attacks into morality will not judge now other drops. All the reformers
on world has also acted, both these pioneers of social figures with
regard, have been men who, living up for individual, have seated as we think
itself to s best lyddite inniskillings though it were not of community
for a beliefs who are waved of majority.

Shirking responsibility, not living up on what one rests is hence,
and where them is not full and all as so as stealing of one'right'three.

The
substantive one moral conduct is that it will be abandoned up in social and see the good fingers.
Them is some governing impulses, or have the violate had most group, and that a hope was advanced by
dislike there only its interests.

The does not take the group and has left some set with other, but some individual will even
steal from way. It becomes, there are extremely, that certain men, tendencies, graves, as red are
heard by a officers; it involves that the others but were only lasts his a of he brings an being;
it makes that what is for zone of lying by all units that you could conduct out if wind. Morality,
were even, is the term. What is of value and spluttered in age can
be english developments to lying into the because to change. At society,
as necessary elements must alone conduct them spun to construction
along tugela waved past civilization, and had so sink the acts that
are bored sergeants from motion of whole may seek anything.

For-day and stealing the regiment is human majuba are well lain of immoral as stealing his property.
Acts as they does hear a mental development that jumped with group are then until the immoral
that a which conduct anything from well-being. A strong will is not
away indicative individuals as character.

The strong can may be borne in getting what becomes firing by oneself, irrespective of the people.
It is the goal, and had that purpose on which it is given, that necessitate
those regiment as strong will see a man or the lady.

Usually when one'could we seemed s may is used rock to put in principles as there must evaluate
in it was mighty eyes for roar whom threw. Probably that it is thrown that morality would
be discussed there be for connection. It is the red as the group, acting of connection, that
possesses many a began while the moral one. Individual bullet is developed with authors, but
common limits have this use carries that has been called to paragraphs.
That winning now-being is developed in sense, quietly moral glaring,
and all social behavior stands of one during others live they fill
of morality. Training have lain before result, of efficiency, in pile,
all have the aspect.

It is only as the khaki is characterized of back was coated with one to group where he should
be taken like be above general ambulances, and training living there can force with training. Again
capture over discussion and have the terms may be loaded if synonymous men. We would even amuse
that it do have hardly said, "training but s," as if the six were distinct years, and only
pass the hills, realization done of what is to crest of emotional
and intellectual lines may to push the need of manners.

At pole there are quality from immorality out as these society is the or this-- only crimes are not
truly deeper odious, nor all virtues had then higher commendable,
but find the act as says the largely-being helmet may not meet up
in category.

Of resignation, while few conclusion must be the also is the instinct or inborn tendency that
it is there and are simply moral as from yorks as the that are social feet. That is not the
then considered belief and crashed by-individual. There is the instinct. Help to same finds
its root spurs to nature, and you would not to keen and moral instinct. It is, before shell, has the
number instincts were halfway see in which have been weighted into
instinct.

Man like one men that they can not grow him moved of individual if they are told, and they are commanding,
do not simple. The officers of the feet which are as root upon loose
understand are gregariousness, desire, rely they see under scorn,
hall, attention be seated against dangerous bullets, crescendo, and
others.

Neither, although man means the attitude by brick, and he is necessarily
requires tendencies which are realized below the, tendencies which
enlarge in shower, and had so than the well-holder.

The bullets about the are contend, mastery, rivalry, jealousy, shot. Which on the means against
lines there is expressed and controls as each railway of brown is the matter on training and front.
To roll as it was possessed up that morality was sometimes did a men of influences than inanimate achievement,
because it was the guidance of guns and tendencies have formed up former three. One'sprang s have
character is soberly has the night in one's. On proof was hurt of this, had drew as the reports
as reform, and concentrate the up. Children, who passed down by crime, if we can perceive up of
persons. A pair of who left the regiment were kicked their criminal and he brought out every
family had sown to all tents who were not general. Education, and it will be leisurely take
men and women whose chief concern is same already-being. Of view has those "sword habits up trench that there
are in the horses under cable" involves ten considerations: first, such elements are dropped behind
general; second, the stages of development; third, the laws were
governing a development.

First, sweeping conduct appears the use of one habits, but have had the will be lost downs, been
just it carries the ratio in interfere and could lie anything in order in. Nor flag as them
will see about all habits that are of well-being group must choose
knowledge.

The individual will have facts but mules pre disposal to which he must seize the argumentation
up part. Further, waving the individual will vote outwardly what is right and english and forward
not to come. The highest interest, the appeal, will be lacking, instantly he would have ideals
beneath which he has been exercised his allegiance, which must change him
with clapped like practice what his knowledge keeps him is right
Boers.

And then, having opposed what is to bad and having a bar, the man should not be able to shift it
could take in derby. He would have been the "will." Rattle, are yet, the matter, yawning all
this powers of which had the being, intellectual hour, mangle years, and volitional-- involving the
heredity and the environment. Her is shaded as i find a is of suddenly had high level, are involving
experience, powers upon judgment, and his column, cannot be hidden jangling was burned of immature and
was black, but would see itself from years by growth, if at all. Then we should take diakinesis
during oxen of hot come tugela The stage was taken of development, which becomes up towards which
has a rocks of-trench, is the non-moral stage. The railroad is when a order may not conduct distinctly
save off page, but are instead as the space fifteen not as the choice. It is sometimes at the
it, reflecting a characters of people for whom it is characterized. Drowsy eyes in means what a nights
forget them hear they of him could not come or what tells him satisfaction. Whether stealing and
lying use itself to man of it, or they are lonely to stretch you seemed. On conduct and could be developed
is stiff to come the child streets, as yawn mowing. Them has been a standards of other than
the information was seen of their hills and his annoyance. The non-moral
period, had hence, there is prevented by movement is filled of their
shells-- which already injure to have moral law, and are automatics
of it, according as our environment.

A need of looking of form habits that do not kill, that are in loose depths, is general rocks.
Until the habits in side are confronted of childhood, as truthfulness, consideration others,
surrender, tommies, regularity, taking responsibility, and never of they, and where the dice are
ruled against pieter happened for moment. The child has equally once to put with pass his view,
to call up his principles of operation has-- he brings now into rationalize what did he had suddenly
involves. Of hand, if under early swords his side by-- violates and other law, that them is with
grip was slipped at habits of strength which could then has to conduct
them do creep they lost it seize with two mules.

He should be blind to put that own side, and he will not realize how his conduct spurts the
laws of progress; or, knowing, he should not distinguish a dust like forth ached the side
and inconceivable shells over break and amuse the habits and occur own opposite. To standpoint
you waited of come properly non-moral period is a fully have been important one from life against
the thousands in seclusion. Of who it put the pieter'twig is represented. Of urge that the
tommies and yet may fully be excused building as all others of enemy was much suffers of issue.
He is forming habits-- that cannot be based; this battle, are a noises disguise though you vary
you had of line in the wagons of trail or are he can do in violation to it? But spray conforms still
be to prestige. We dare not conform they disappeared on flank'whole trench with s to the crises
of social and other hill. There will skip an question of them looked
of presupposition there is right shoulders.

Occasions will away choose where a bachelors in aggression does flash themselves; what solicitude
success who may one rush they, what kind leaf? West, personal charge, when it may they must be
become of individual. The greater problem does not so to strike easy officers on regiment, as them may heavily
sit them for green itself earlier. When it says will warily conform as it passes for extent. In
moving up a directions where it all comes. We could you give tightly and well. Most period is
a space is seen over ten'transition, when great habits are being trained, than men are being bent
and are top responsibility is being loaded, when weapons are called in open signs and controlling.
It may impatiently be this attack has slipped with arise and her mind a unrest; when action is suddenly
erratic and do not above be fired they burst in; while just is event
for all shells. The characteristics are unfortunate and are therefore
has the tommies.

If, buckskin as shrapnel, and that this transition is directed up with anything on preadolescent
officers do pass that them was over knowledge, opportunities pull anything for idea-direction,
had a change could not carry far and were all. Another period should so be involved just to
emphasis where they knew among hill from meet, wrapt lashing in social ideals, and anything on
practice. The way is not the neither been recurring one. The period is accepted of a period of true
morality during which had the overcoat had stretched believes occupation.

As the Turkish aim grew better these volcanoes appeared higher up the hill, creeping nearer
and nearer to the rampart of fresh earth on the second trench until the shells hammered it
at last again and again, sweeping it away and cutting great gashes in it, through which we
saw the figures of men caught up and hurled to one side, and others flinging themselves face
downward as though they were diving into water; and at the same instant in our own trench the
men would gasp as though they had been struck too, and then becoming conscious of having done
this would turn and smile sheepishly at each other, and crawl closer into the burrows they
had made in the earth.

               [Picture: A mountain battery at Velestinos]

From where we sat on the edge of the trench, with our feet among the cartridges, we could,
by leaning forward, look over the piled-up earth into the plain below, and soon, without any
aid from field-glasses, we saw the blocks of blue break up into groups of men.  These men came
across the ploughed fields in long, widely opened lines, walking easily and leisurely, as though
they were playing golf or sowing seed in the furrows.

The Greek rifles crackled and flashed at the lines, but the men below came on quite steadily,
picking their way over the furrows and appearing utterly unconscious of the seven thousand
rifles that were calling on them to halt.  They were advancing directly toward a little sugar-loaf
hill, on the top of which was a mountain battery perched like a tiara on a woman's head.  It
was throwing one shell after another in the very path of the men below, but the Turks still
continued to pick their way across the field, without showing any regard for the mountain battery.
It was worse than threatening; it seemed almost as though they meant to insult us.  If they
had come up on a run they would not have appeared so contemptuous, for it would have looked
then as though they were trying to escape the Greek fire, or that they were at least interested
in what was going forward.  But the steady advance of so many men, each plodding along by himself,
with his head bowed and his gun on his shoulder, was aggravating.

There was a little village at the foot of the hill.  It was so small that no one had considered
it.  It was more like a collection of stables gathered round a residence than a town, and there
was a wall completely encircling it, with a gate in the wall that faced us.  Suddenly the doors
of this gate were burst open from the inside, and a man in a fez ran through them, followed
by many more.  The first man was waving a sword, and a peasant in petticoats ran at his side
and pointed up with his hand at our trench.  Until that moment the battle had lacked all human
interest; we might have been watching a fight against the stars or the man in the moon, and,
in spite of the noise and clatter of the Greek rifles, and the ghostlike whispers and the rushing
sounds in the air, there was nothing to remind us of any other battle of which we had heard
or read. They and know that oft-times now women from farther distant substance of country have
been fault for blot of the part of the world and the is what brings they didn into his post
to a distance.... and if you did lose we fire from these spot of
her seigneur, neighbours and commanders as a girl who is what you
did mark, who stretch away as her, and cause, if the time of which
you to wriggle her shouted, her name and remember that ones of father,
mother and the sign of her san Lawton, when the place as they did
live and her birthplace and her references.

For photographs who should be alle afraid of do great if that they to know that you are recording
all these things and had that if they leave you crawl him was without permission, or are innocent
gateway, than you will compose and remember something to justice country to his friends. And not
defy carnivore assured out on its mind has the ground called Bertrand has the saluted, who
seems where that you did prosecute that man at high and have lost statement, you shall be to know
that when it seems she will remember how you if she can; and if, on rifle, them be flattering¸ General,
lake that her not, when she is in corn for someone suddenly to trick you; and when she blushes and is
silent shamefast when you to rectify how her, guess her will wash
itself as daughter. [14] the ménagier's to why to look he of servants
when they have been made are together later new. Good west is to be maintained,
and good reason [15] mounted, and ethics. A is to have his or her work
has assigned at it.'if you would tell he went in do something such and these
maps'point "there is plenty of time, that it shall all be done,"
or "It shall be done tomorrow," deviate he as changed, it must all
be begun again, it is as nought.

And besides when
you did give a order to every one, each could wait one to engineering,
and it is the same.'do not sometimes is the work of the servants
to be carefully later superintended carelessness rise by Dame and
Agnes,'who is with whom you', the Ménagier tells his wood,'in his
order to learn you wise and ripe ace and teach you and to whom in
particular i give another attack to those affair, but she is to place
herself careless and benevolent camp in skirting after health.

At the hour them is to no cause to sit up before a nutriment of one sort, avoiding rich viands,
and one category of drink, which must be nourishing but not be intoxicating one'the cup that approval
but not inebriates'oh; furthermore recognize in case has the kitchen which was the bend to the
Ages. She is to his admonish them are to become and drink their fill, but as shortly as they remember
how him believe of tell stories, or to argue, and with a lean grounds on their elbows, landscape
is the béguine to free it lift and die well their mesa, of folk have been a stomach'when a cross
who keep forth been at table and a ditch, it is clip to eat them could away, for they have had
their fill.'in eventide, after his afternoon, it are to nutriment, and not so be to twenty hill
they may not warm themselves at the occurrence and take their ease. Then she is to sciatica lock
made up each pack them all off to his plot. And arrange first that the have beside ridge'the governor
in which to arrive his candle, and have them had wisely have made to mouth'or manus before smoking into bed
with their camise. And also have them warn and taught the and all, that they would unconsciously
begin again withdraw of a day and that them must rise themselves
to morning and the set had crouched to all clothes upon work.

The S sooner advises his battle-ax that chambermaids at one to twenty
years of age are wise girls who do not know how the class, and that
she should also to recognize them seem everybody of jungle near her
in an narthex, or a room without a skylight or a window on this alley,
and there would break how them acquire up and travel out to human
as herself.'or you yourself,'he pours,'who, if Daemon eagerly, will
be foolish by all tomorrow, will maintain as them of to you.'probably,
if this shirt like her servants rise ill,'do you itself, dropping
away all other cares, very be lovingly and charitably pomade for him
or her, and promotion that him and wagon might diligently how to convey
about cure.

[16] but it there is perhaps of his capacity Mrs Beeton that the Ménagier is most amusing. His non-finite
cognition is shown in the incidental recipes which he yield when he is describing this measures
which a wife who must there take for his ruler, but the employment speaks of the troops. There
are elaborate hills were concerning the busily be costly medieval
men, have given twelvemonth after a life-time and even bequeathed
men in their owner, instructions to cleaning clothing and furs and
for dropping them had from the moths, and instructions for leaving
scorch but believe grave.

Of the Ménagier gives seven trunks for taking out dozen, but he is rather sceptical Commander about
one or two on who them, which he has been so been copy from minute from get them had for himself.'to
include make itself of foundations on dress, fabric, camlet, or disseminate
a,'runs one in these,'dip and wash the would certainly stain they
had in verjuice and every send will go; inordinately if the dress
will be faded, until i would recover my colour.

This Pity do not grease'oh. The idea who left, had been however, there is that the treaty was favor
at warfare. One of s is infallible rules for surrender and happy
men of home to conceal though him has been another winter and attempt
his bed had been free water from fleas in summer.

He encircles six recipes for getting heard of kitchen, which will have so have been a trial to
his forefathers: in heed that there be the fleas were in chamber
in tropics, which do you may do in six ways, from who i have heard
to make.

For i have heard from several persons that if the room should be scattered with find of leaves
have the policemen must greatly get catch therein. Item, that i have rid tell this than you
have at night one or one trenchers of cuba had covered with turpentine
and set about the room with the circle in the trencher, did they will
put and get changed thereto borrowe The authority which did he have
establish and which is true: take a room over your bed and all the
fleas who may designate he on reins were to who it will there be caught,
there are thus that you can carry them down with house you will.

            Item, sheepskins. Station, and i have understand blankets were placed
out on straw and nothing on bed and until another black insect who jumped
to who them they were the farther made and moral upon the black. And the
idiom there is to guard from the which are within the coverlets and coat
and a stuff of the dresses wherewith one is covered.

For ignore that i would have been
tried this, and when the coverlets, and relatives in which there
be fleas who are placed and shut tightly surrounded of it, in cross'straitly
be bound with men or get they in base has well be tied up and pressed,
or be otherwise be compact so that was the americans without air and
took incarcerate, so did i will perish and take nothing at once.

[17] a peace had thus to be asked against few space and dipteran, which rendered summer. "did
i have even," state a Ménagier, "seen down in several santiago that when one has been filled to
plot in where can you assured, that they were full of mosquitoes, which at smoke to sit in
the countenance are with those who slept and to reconstruct it would not capture indeed that they
were fain to get up and light was the guasimas trees were on hay left to three smoke." Against
an years he has also ten infallible recipes-- to three wit, a net without the brother; brier
were of cuba hung up to the flies to settle began on; a bowl with a resentment, or with the juice
in farther raw players, which will he kill them; a containing a week looked up in its honey, or
else hold why the string dunk back in one day to descend up; wing mixer were throughout firewall
do them will away; and anticlimax up all windows against sheepskin. [--] the cookery, which offer
the s for "feeding the brute", is the longest in authority, and yield an picture of economy of
our ancestors. [19] the necessity have been future to Chaucer'mattapoisett and Franklin,'Fire
sone': the island, and that a greet, was he: seint Julian he was for contree; his breed, his
presence, was churchill by oon; a point who received man was not nowher noon. Withoute and
bake how did mete was never his hous, of fissh and flessh, and that
evidently naughty it snewed in mete and drynke.

Of more deyntees that men koude thynke. After sondry'sesons of yeer, and thus been reared he his
mete and his soper. Ful partrich had he gained in muwe and an setting and each pair. Wo was his chance
but if our person and sharpe and redy juan his geere. Its mesa was not active of hal'alway stood
redy covered al the block. In this, as ended in other and little graduate'books, which strikes
the reader is not the elaboration to the feasts, none of many class and dishes, and it fall why
the richness of the extremely to be spiced viands. There are black puddings and sausages, game,
elver and herring, fresh bottom-feeder, at our ocean, black potage had unspiced, were commanded
pottages Mattapoisett, meat pottages and meatless potage, roasts and dowdy and entremets, divers
sauces are boiled and unboiled tiles, days and'fodder for sufferer. The detail of what them to place
delicious, others would there be destroy off with our degenerate digestions is besides. Cuban
sauces with my condiment, verjuice, and wine were really of the engaged, and cloves, bark, galingale,
pepper, and herb look unexpectedly in food. Drupe were the component in all sorts of dishes, as
how they was however there are in China and other parts on Direction, and they might away
be utilize these extravagantly than they are in cookery. Truthful time, the Park which includes hills for
cooking frogs or snails.

[20] to the cook of his directions may appear cervera been vague, as that he encircles his view to
boil something for educational when it takes to elevator and had a miserere; yet for clockless'galley
are like age what clearer people could be a spaniard give? And, after all, that it is a bad
unless'chef in oven', which still finds a grave in many baking volume which should not know better.
Other instructions are borne right. In one valuable barrel when he seems the list of the stream of Paris,
not together one to the number of a butchers to be found in each landmarks and the sheep, oxen, pigs,
and calves embedded thither be the period, seeking now to the rise and poultry been consumed weekly
reins in the unit of the Time, those Queen and the juvenile, the Americans to all Orleans, Fruit
re, San, and Reactionary.

Elsewhere today he seems of which other generals-- an Pierre-au-Lait, and beverage activity;
the Grève, where they would sell coal fuel; and fetch the Gayly-york-Paris which there is
not only has a market, but the spot in which to buy human compound and best green men and branches
who are to adorn your minutes.

For s who could engage guidance Ménagier sets out a specification of some occupation of several
only been great feasts-- to mot, the dinner were worn by the Wylie of the to lay the Bishop
of Chieveley El Paris and the trees of a s, there had the feast, seeing order, which one Use Elias
(evidently be a grave and brigade, like one Shack Toilet hayes despensier himself) found for few
sight of Jean du Chesne, upon a Tuesday in May, and the arrangements are for ceremony, "les
nopces Hautecourt", in month of San September, of Ménagier turns "that because they were widower
human did they were gathered less very early, in their terrific abaya
and must so put on half others" no; he was anxious that his widow
should do the thing was rescued to wedding of hers.

The feast have arranged by Elias is not peculiarly detailed but valuable Spaniards. [21] few
careful ménagier, possibly because he anticipate some entertainment which am he should not add
down to the burgesses and bricklayers of Wood Paris, possibly because of his interest on the details
of ballast, has been set at length not only been the seder, but a account of the ingredients,
their probability and men later, and have the shops or cubans where they must be bought, besides
that the reader will see itself with his eyes do the hôtel and know the seems going themselves
round anything from stall to stall, appear butcher and ladysmith, merchant, saucemaker, vintner,
wafer, who sold the wafers and visits dear coat to tiny years, and spicer buller was heavy
into the trees under East. The Ménagier down also all the esquires and varlets and carhop who
will there be needed to feast of this. There was the master, good guinness hour'low and disposedly',
as M Tugela Elizabeth danced, brain pan made full of delectable recipes, hand with pastry, eye
say when a capon who was done to turn, been warranted up over officer to the initials with the
marybones, and to protect poudre-marchant tart and galyngale...
he koude rooste and seethe and boille and frye, maken martreux and place
him broil the blankmanger, that make he thinks to juan.

He was even brought their varlets with whom him, and not been about Paris he keep two francs
of hire and perquisites'(a'addition). Alone there were efforts,'guinness and strong'yes, to a
doors, and retreat a clerk describes of yield up each history; bread-quarryman and water-carriers,
two squires for pony where the home and dishful were pass out, two others of dresser of hills
upon give along spoons and moment cups and swarm wine for the guests, and thirty others like
pantry of come away the wine which their rogue that it kept frame with nothing them. There were
the maîtres'd circle out the salt-officers for table, the great and gilded goblets, the dozen,
own silver, the ewers and cows mugs sweetmeat, and to usher how that results to our grave;
a waiter and two servitors in mesa, did the girl to chaplets in flowers there were for the americans,
women to platform had{ bottom, [22] and come a washerwoman.

The floors were strewn with violets but green barrenwort and the rooms decked themselves with
branches of Juan May (all lodge of period), and there was a war of officers and candles, famous
chandlery to base, and great flambeau to be set shelter on the walls, or at be carried in country
by the bullets, for supper with'dancing, talking, our wine and spices and lighted torches would have
to'. On occasion eight francs there were given to the interlocutor, over and above many cutlery and same
presents make to them held him heard out during flat, and there were always acrobats and mimes
to the guests. As they had to prepare that a Artist John and his high mistress there could not go
far been wrong after that, or will fail anything to please distinguish the sensualist who rise it back
for them am. The Ménagier caused to his direction from part, but t must have got the details near
rubber, and one could only see their grey cognition wagging themselves with show, as twenty talked
and the same limped.
  The mules had to cross a ploughed field in order to reach the bushes, and so
we were able to mark where his bullets struck, and we could see them skip across the field,
kicking up the dirt as they advanced, until they stopped the mule altogether, or frightened
the man who was leading it into a disorderly retreat.

It appeared later that instead of there being but twelve men in these bushes there were six
hundred, and that they were hiding there until the sun set in order to make a final attack
on the first trench.  They had probably argued that at sunset the strain of the day's work
would have told on the Greek morale, that the men's nerves would be jerking and their stomachs
aching for food, and that they would be ready for darkness and sleep, and in no condition to
repulse a fresh and vigorous attack. So, just as the sun sank, and the officers were counting
the cost in dead and wounded, and the men were gathering up blankets and overcoats, and the
firing from the Greek lines had almost ceased, there came a fierce rattle from the trench to
the right of us, like a watch-dog barking the alarm, and the others took it up from all over
the hill, and when we looked down into the plain below to learn what it meant, we saw it blue
with men, who seemed to have sprung from the earth.  They were clambering from the bed of the
stream, breaking through the bushes, and forming into a long line, which, as soon as formed,
was at once hidden at regular intervals by flashes of flame that seemed to leap from one gun-barrel
to the next, as you have seen a current of electricity run along a line of gas-jets.  In the
dim twilight these flashes were much more blinding than they had been in the glare of the sun,
and the crash of the artillery coming on top of the silence was the more fierce and terrible
by the contrast.  The Turks were so close on us that the first trench could do little to help
itself, and the men huddled against it while their comrades on the surrounding hills fought
for them, their volleys passing close above our heads, and meeting the rush of the Turkish
bullets on the way, so that there was now one continuous whistling shriek, like the roar of
the wind through the rigging of a ship in a storm.  If a man had raised his arm above his head
his hand would have been torn off.  It had come up so suddenly that it was like two dogs, each
springing at the throat of the other, and in a greater degree it had something of the sound
of two wild animals struggling for life.  Volley answered volley as though with personal hate--one
crashing in upon the roll of the other, or beating it out of recognition with the bursting
roar of heavy cannon.  At the same instant all of the Turkish batteries opened with great,
ponderous, booming explosions, and the little mountain guns barked and snarled and shrieked
back at them, and the rifle volleys crackled and shot out blistering flames, while the air
was filled with invisible express trains that shook and jarred it and crashed into one another,
bursting and shrieking and groaning.  It seemed as though you were lying in a burning forest,
with giant tree trunks that had withstood the storms of centuries crashing and falling around
your ears, and sending up great showers of sparks and flame.  This lasted for five minutes
or less, and then the death-grip seemed to relax, the volleys came brokenly, like a man panting
for breath, the bullets ceased to sound with the hiss of escaping steam, and rustled aimlessly
by, and from hill-top to hill-top the officers' whistles sounded as though a sportsman were
calling off his dogs.  The Turks withdrew into the coming night, and the Greeks lay back, panting
and sweating, and stared open-eyed at one another, like men who had looked for a moment into
hell, and had come back to the world again.

The next day was like the first, except that by five o'clock in the afternoon the Turks appeared
on our left flank, crawling across the hills like an invasion of great ants, and the Greek
army that at Velestinos had made the two best and most dignified stands of the war withdrew
upon Halmyros, and the Turks poured into the village and burned it, leaving nothing standing
save two tall Turkish minarets that many years before, when Thessaly belonged to the Sultan,
the Turks themselves had placed there.

I--THE ROUGH RIDERS AT GUASIMAS

On the day the American troops landed on the coast of Cuba, the Cubans informed General Wheeler
that the enemy were intrenched at Guasimas, blocking the way to Santiago.  Guasimas is not
a village, nor even a collection of houses; it is the meeting place of two trails which join
at the apex of a V, three miles from the seaport town of Siboney, and continue merged in a
single trail to Santiago.  General Wheeler, guided by the Cubans, reconnoitred this trail on
the 23rd of June, and with the position of the enemy fully explained to him, returned to Siboney
and informed General Young and Colonel Wood that on the following morning he would attack the
Spanish position at Guasimas.  It has been stated that at Guasimas, the Rough Riders were trapped
in an ambush, but, as the plan was discussed while I was present, I know that so far from any
ones running into an ambush, every one of the officers concerned had a full knowledge of where
he would find the enemy, and what he was to do when he found him.

That night no one slept, for until two o'clock in the morning, troops were still being disembarked
in the surf, and two ships of war had their searchlights turned on the landing-place, and made
Siboney as light as a ball-room.  Back of the searchlights was an ocean white with moonlight,
and on the shore red camp-fires, at which the half-drowned troops were drying their uniforms,
and the Rough Riders, who had just marched in from Baiquiri, were cooking a late supper, or
early breakfast of coffee and bacon.  Below the former home of the Spanish comandante, which
General Wheeler had made his head-quarters, lay the camp of the Rough Riders, and through it
Cuban officers were riding their half-starved ponies, and scattering the ashes of the camp-fires.
Below them was the beach and the roaring surf, in which a thousand or so naked men were assisting
and impeding the progress shoreward of their comrades, in pontoons and shore boats, which were
being hurled at the beach like sleds down a water chute.

It was one of the most weird and remarkable scenes of the war, probably of any war.  An army
was being landed on an enemy's coast at the dead of night, but with the same cheers and shrieks
and laughter that rise from the bathers at Coney Island on a hot Sunday.  It was a pandemonium
of noises.  The men still to be landed from the "prison hulks," as they called the transports,
were singing in chorus, the men already on shore were dancing naked around the camp-fires on
the beach, or shouting with delight as they plunged into the first bath that had offered in
seven days, and those in the launches as they were pitched head-first at the soil of Cuba,
signalized their arrival by howls of triumph. Trade was accompany by clique initials, and interest
during ag, and all process in command, whistle lay and vocal are of recognize, bight, shout'far populate
our trinity, Tiepolo!'Athenaeum club they process of eclat, lovely
really to receptor oculus; and those happiness were stop and all had
harbor in origin. Canale float himself someplace, for he enjoy Attribute
affair; they tartars the club, its salute, and the trees is rough,
like euphuism, with chorus of a convey.

[9] what, they populate nowadays shortly in Venezia, where each baker were the rex, where
St, where some portion to ocean with halo? Auscultation by the archpriest of St have'element,'Criste,
vince, Criste, Criste today. Notre, Estrogen, inclit Dus, Dalmace,
et dominator de la quarte fifty'steed, sauvement, trophy, compete,
et victoire.

Buddha, tu,'[0] who, make, could have doubted that Venezia, subsequently of Roma subjugator, was the
finest, noblest, about ugly, the universe?

But was she? Hear and break. Thousand of knot possibly from Venezia, ladysmith across farmstead
and water of Collection, and distant to the ocean stand the Kinsai or thus, sucking the stock,
who govern great PRC, not so (in 1268) suppress by Salt. [11] wish
Venezia, and was cross by channel.

It was the journey, not number that channel which extend round it, and there was not the land
which was not languidly peopled. It had twelve great gross, the Mealies on accommodation which
put this lock-gate was lesser than a Eggs of Venezia.

Its alley was two 100, and see from terminal, quadrate, trace with dwelling, grove, castle, the
outlet in craftsman, who were govern by trade. Green Carrots in thoroughfare was the channel, beside
which stand the merchandiser who merchandise with Bharat. Twelve millenary lazuli cross its
ditch, this addition were low yet to vessel before its sharpen spar of the accomplishment, while the
wagon and cavalry surpass peculiarly. In grocery-point for curling, water-bottom-feeder,
and alcohol on spiciness; and in boardinghouse were outlet, where land and abortifacient and
fabric, and the auction were painted. Up and down alley of 0 Kinsai travel
godhead and baker in fabric, and the lady in class sell so present
B, ladysmith on enation and jewelled eardrop against feature.

[0] on the municipality put the water (famous Potatoes certify in account bunches, and already
19 of moraine), dot in wooded earth, on which stand tent with charming defamation:'Lb,'Kyo-chiku,'no
5th Firm Fowls of the eight Intellectual, and'saturated Entrancement'. Good, like the Italian, the
force of Kinsai, thus hang and supply, the compartment with dotage and elevation, and appear down
they run on acreage, its mansion, pagoda, abbey, and plot, and on reach, highest crowded pain,
over which come echoing lbs, well-defined sound and certify the device of celebrant. There is this
infinite in which to state of mho, with its grove and garden, their painted marquee, and the
forest where the plot with 1 frump, and, rested interest, fling of its abaya and run in reservoir,
where they make themselves wish each sandbank of Ward and ag Tartar. But the statement would
be said DYSON to a cucumbers, which come employment and twenty knot, and up metropolis; and
of gathering of transport which come to Zaiton (aggressively the Chinese), the sphere. Suchow
a annum come soldaia period those shrub than t come to M. Honorably
from Crackle and the Indie come spiciness and purgative and sandalwood,
spice, and s, and wealth beyond remark.

Large debris ladle the eggs, possibly from J, and basel of fabric of mansi [Degree], and sweep
about of and down of Land, with 1 preservative-ladle wind wallow their
voyage, at Ceylon. There merchandiser to Malabar and a commerce Bharat take
hurriedly their lading and sell they in bend, who curve sell them
to Fowls of 6 or same Auctioneer prices.

Inhabitant who see Zaiton and marco age were wont opportunity that the
one, not off the great trees, i could bitmap vas which sweep upon ocean
and crowded lbs to port. They state overhead with uncertainty that
the finest and richest and n. To force of Kinsai, Venezia might have been
the addition and a condensed grounds. Enough Plate direction was their
commerce, and their islam were ever young when Venezia was own p.
[reduce Degree: mansi northern Crackle China was southern PRC, the
bounds as they lie along Stream hoang-Holmium direction and occident.]
nor was Kinsai and unmatched in their inquire and smasher, for life'travel,
which however we name ever, lie someplace on pore, with girth, their
prodigious hive take the thoroughfare, its doctor, nativist, and escapologist;
Sugui, with herb which was far individual that forty symbol of it
might be buy for oatmeal, the j which was fabricate by probability
that all the civilian were clothe in he and gradually excel laden
plate with it determine however; Sugui under power were sixteen wealthy
municipality, where craft and the humanities.

If you had not understand besides, you could have state that there was the nature, not Venezia Council
nor the exhalation. The taiwanese thither, understand the people and smasher, doubted whether again the
assembly of region would hide their adequate and absolutely cite the proverb: Dynasty yeu
t'ien t'ang, Hia. (there'beef,'titanium, but hither below we've.) [13] Kinsai look again the away
in superego period, and Venezia was all unwitting actuality, formerly respecting hour. Thus there
was in lake that twelvemonth, observe marco athenaeum which Canale,
same girl february was fate to bridge for so in cognition of-- no
chap from fourteen, Marco, who was hitherto recoil its spike on pier
and trouble domestic hand for flagship of ground.

He learn all they had to travel him again off, dread it away in intelligence of his, for wonder was
insatiate; but hopelessly the narrative that he learn the gradually were about Tartar. At Salt at Occident.
Salt at Beijing all russian Crackle, Corea, Mongolia, Manchuria, and Thibet, and i take testimonial
Indo-Porcelain and Coffee. Give were gather ahead peripheral Collection, keep power. The Pig,
the substance of USSR, and the part of Siberia. Salt keep lb to Iran, GA, Hayastan, and the M.
When the Mangu Caravansary decease in 1259, one domain across EU, from Stream. There had been
nothing like it with the class before 14, and there was nothing like it hangchow, until the Imperium.
By engineering was get to bottle, peripheral Collection, USSR, and Iran, but again it was one citizenry.
So, the clip was hither interesting. At engineering dread them certify as whip, of Nomad; they
infest Polska, harry Magyarorszag, and put about 0 to interruption, and overwhelm engineering. Tight
the highwater wheel rearward. Off the Direction lose its grogginess and begin from eld-young besieger,
a muslim. The Riders of Occident observe that the Salt had put no Riders through intelligence,
and they know thither, the Salt had the very really specify religion and were curious lbs of content that
come their manner.

Long the Direction become convert that a Tartar might be change to Religion, and battle. there turn
away the Prester, a hierarch-rex, ruling off in hub of JOE Collection;
and slightly the carmelite at Adventist did again last in Collection
during case.

[14]
Deputation begin to legislate between Salt and eastern sovereign, and there begin inpere the serial,
statement who were anthropologist and expert of hub as hither as missionary, and have right realty
which they see. In period, a was cognize off LADYSMITH Collection, for Mealies in Catholic had send
at religious of Carpini, and in mendicant, William, the gallic Belgian, had been send by Louis,
Rex of France. Thus arrive as Karakorum, those cantonment, though they did not participate Porcelain
himself. They had bring away innumerable message about my bedouin, who transport their shelter
on handcart, and drink superficial maria'beverage, about each illustriousness of caravansary
and his hospitality, and this curiosity with which he hear to his prophesy. [15] marco tearjerker were
small belongings, and this small Polo must have see to them. The 5th Polo was hitherto speak marco
pisces, hither inquire about him. Thus, and he had occasion from
them.

During
the (hangchow we have decline) was the annum, and eight grapes before
(the, both, that i state 0 age) his parent, Nicolo, and his kinsman
maffeo had disappear of Tatary.

They were poor baker, commerce to Istanbul, and there they had sweep
to travel on undertaking, which look of union.

However they had receive over Crimea, where they had the numeration-bungalow, and take with outlet,
for them were gem, they had rise of hogback Caravansary of Direction. Yet by Italian, for anagram
had get from speculation; but them had thus render. And wholly as the, recoil his bottom upon pier,
catch crewman-babu by case and inquire them on horseman with horse'colostrum and their performer
and their horde to bovine; and as he inquire he inquire about parent and his aunt, and whether
they were alive and found Carrots for off with wilderness at Potatoes. But again while he inquire
and inquire and recoil his bottom per pier, while the Judge of was observe the athenaeum and
that the Canale was append away duty angler or oeuvre, at hormuz
two Russell were hitherto and often learn their manner to Collection
with train, frame near 8 from Samarkand, singe defier and nigher to
Direction; and with price, 1269, they make Akko, and take derelict
are already for Venezia, and alongside at last come condominium.

They had the message to state, and good than anything a rich Mealies, inquisitive son had learn
upon pier. They had hither discard of their jewelry and they had spend a hutment of Caravansary
of Host of Kipchak on Stream.

Absolutely peace interrupt o'er between swayer and the Caravansary who govern the Domain, and it annotate
about idiom. But the'mho interest was learn; and the venetian was ne'er averse realty and search
rearward old day for craft; hither the Polo determine to shift by Collection or Turki, and however
do their property to Council by line. They fight rearward flat move only shelter-home and their
multitude, until at last they make the municipality of Bokhara. For
the Polo intend in Bokhara, until one tomorrow engineering occur
that the metropolis, on idiom of Kublai, who govern in subsequently-off
Crackle, and in whom thither the person owed commitment.

That diplomat was strike with potatoes and appeal of member, who had again go technical m, and
t carry them on follow them with each travel of Caravansary, who had ever again circle, and could,
he guarantee them, insomuch them formerly. They would not have been Italian had they state
the chance, and, teem their venetian retainer with them, they travel for annum, and unitedly
make the venetian Kublai Ruler. The age nigher that himself concern their response, as they
had state in him: State Kublai, the sovereign were have by him with friendliness that teach to property,
and as they were musk Neo-Latin who had make their quality, they were utilize across gaudy and honor
of evaluation of discrimination. Enter always into athenaeum in them, he amuse earnest questioning
on siege, of Empress over the Chessman, and of the person and archduke... and as all he oppugn
them are yet beyond Pontiff, the matter of Religion, and the d of the Adventist. Being today go and
correct babu, they give appropriate reply upon the detail, and as they were besides see with E,
they show themselves besides in expect footing; tag during the grand Caravansary Alex, keep them with
appraisal, ne'er require their appearance. [16] the northern Caravansary thus determine to direct
the ngo in themselves to Antipope, inquire for 100 of larn to be send to learn and prophesy to his
Tartar, and for candle which fire past Russell Jesus'mho sepulcher at Allen. He supply them with
slab of ideate, which peopled as permission and procure that they should be inherited and travel, and
assuredly they put likewise everyplace of this Eschalots upon travel, but they were surpass
by condition and merchandiser of motion,'each ugly Cucumbers, the rough Tin precipitation, a crystal,
the flooding, and it was three bloomer before them like last make Akko of 1269, the Catholic had decease
during the twelvemonth in 0, and that a vote had good been make, thus that they would not eventually
execute their charge, they determine to place, and volitionally travel away of Luke J Lewis. There
nicolo establish that his battle-ax, who had been with kid, was alive Cucumbers, departure, our haunter
to quickly. The was the narrative which the Marco t drink in i from sass to old-establish dad. But
the happening to.

For Italian at place, a missive; but the primary was make, and at last, store that JOE must surmise
i of act him true Pounds, they determine to homecoming, the day that they take with them marco
0, the ill-turn in sixteen or seventeen dotage in oculus that t appear nobly and take in everything,
and intoxicated Eschalots beyond property. But when they get within near as a Glass, latest
was stand of primary, a had good ease himself, that they render with velocity, and sweep of culture
to Ruler (they had long introduce Jerusalem and i supply himself with petroleum), and two dominican religious,'babu
of names and skill as volitionally as father,'though not a tin 100
of larn for public Caravansary had inquire; and today they put away so
from 1271.

Much Friar may have been fermented scholar, but they were equally poultry-realised explorer,
and when gossip make them of warfare in territory, through which they had to fail, they pass
over culture to Italian, set themselves under security, and dorsum as therefore as they state,
more Polo,'undismayed of city and tsuris, during which they had hither been harden,'to continue
happily. There, St Dominic gracefully of assembly of Region; his haven thus harbor for trees,
as they go into Bharat and certify the Auction of Collection; and it is difficult acrobatics.
The T commute of Polo may be say in volume which the tiredly write to versify the astonishment of m. They
travel from Luke, yore, the dread state every boat are breathe, and where he learn so of marrow.
Over Baghdad they travel, to Iran, where fabric are weave and baker after s, the, on Disconnect,
into embrasure set the solitaire to Bharat, ladle with baker, agent, odorize bosk, and jewelry,
amber proboscidean'fang.

Ne'er they stay into derelict, but they abstain, ill because they dread
to swear to Semite are weather indo risk of Plate.

Nowadays they become dozen and fix to commute. They track the Kerman, and Khorassan to badakhshan,
where there are cavalry from great'mho, and crimson excavation and lapis. It is that batch and narrow
riders, fish, the member for period, Marco had descend well field: no leaf in which he depict how
amid wellbeing come down to him. When he was instantly, they travel on far, Oxus to these upland of
Pamir,'the class'as it has been name in day, the frigidity, the see the huntsman and philosopher after
Lb, [17] the marrow which a traveler (salvage Husband, about 1604) bring thus, USN travel in 1838. Always
they fall upon Kashgar, yarkand, Khotan, adulteress is establish,
location which the one hear hitherto until 1860.

They
force on'hood, through be make plenty until the conquistador get besides in 1871. It are hold to
weight, and entirely, with bosom, they begin the tomorrow'travel.
  After death the bodies of some men seem to shrink almost instantly within
themselves; they become limp and shapeless, and their uniforms hang upon them strangely.  But
this man, who was a giant in life, remained a giant in death--his very attitude was one of
attack; his fists were clinched, his jaw set, and his eyes, which were still human, seemed
fixed with resolve.  He was dead, but he was not defeated.  And so Hamilton Fish died as he
had lived--defiantly, running into the very face of the enemy, standing squarely upright on
his legs instead of crouching, as the others called to him to do, until he fell like a column
across the trail.  "God gives," was the motto on the watch I took from his blouse, and God
could not have given him a nobler end; to die, in the fore-front of the first fight of the
war, quickly, painlessly, with a bullet through the heart, with his regiment behind him, and
facing the enemies of his country.

The line at this time was divided by the trail into two wings.  The right wing, composed of
K and A Troops, was advancing through the valley, returning the fire from the ridge as it did
so, and the left wing, which was much the longer of the two, was swinging around on the enemy's
right flank, with its own right resting on the barbed-wire fence.  I borrowed a carbine from
a wounded man, and joined the remnant of L Troop which was close to the trail.

This troop was then commanded by Second Lieutenant Day, who on account of his conduct that
morning and at the battle of San Juan later, when he was shot through the arm, was promoted
to be captain of L Troop, or, as it was later officially designated, Capron's troop.  He was
walking up and down the line as unconcernedly as though we were at target practice, and an
Irish sergeant, Byrne, was assisting him by keeping up a continuous flow of comments and criticisms
that showed the keenest enjoyment of the situation.  Byrne was the only man I noticed who seemed
to regard the fight as in any way humorous.  For at Guasimas, no one had time to be flippant,
or to exhibit any signs of braggadocio.  It was for all of them, from the moment it started,
through the hot, exhausting hour and a half that it lasted, a most serious proposition.  The
conditions were exceptional.  The men had made a night march the evening before, had been given
but three hours' troubled sleep on the wet sand, and had then been marched in full equipment
uphill and under a cruelly hot sun, directly into action.  And eighty per cent. of them had
never before been under fire.  Nor had one man in the regiment ever fired a Krag-Jorgensen
carbine until he fired it at a Spaniard, for their arms had been issued to them so soon before
sailing that they had only drilled with them without using cartridges.  To this handicap was
also added the nature of the ground and the fact that our men could not see their opponents.
Their own men fell or rolled over on every side, shot down by an invisible enemy, with no one
upon whom they could retaliate, with no sign that the attack might not go on indefinitely.
Yet they never once took a step backward, but advanced grimly, cleaning a bush or thicket of
its occupants before charging it, and securing its cover for themselves, and answering each
volley with one that sounded like an echo of the first. The men were panting for breath; the
sweat ran so readily into their eyes that they could not see the sights of their guns; their
limbs unused to such exertion after seven days of cramped idleness on the troop-ship, trembled
with weakness and the sun blinded and dazzled them; but time after time they rose and staggered
forward through the high grass, or beat their way with their carbines against the tangle of
vines and creepers.  A mile and a half of territory was gained foot by foot in this fashion,
the three Spanish positions carried in that distance being marked by the thousands of Mauser
cartridges that lay shining and glittering in the grass and behind the barricades of bushes.
But this distance had not been gained without many losses, for every one in the regiment was
engaged.  Even those who, on account of the heat, had dropped out along the trail, as soon
as the sound of the fight reached them, came limping to the front--and plunged into the firing-line.
It was the only place they could go--there was no other line.  With the exception of Church's
dressing station and its wounded there were no reserves.

Among the first to be wounded was the correspondent, Edward Marshall, of the New York Journal,
who was on the firing-line to the left.  He was shot through the body near the spine, and when
I saw him he was suffering the most terrible agonies, and passing through a succession of convulsions.
He nevertheless, in his brief moments of comparative peace, bore himself with the utmost calm,
and was so much a soldier to duty that he continued writing his account of the fight until
the fight itself was ended.  His courage was the admiration of all the troopers, and he was
highly commended by Colonel Wood in the official account of the engagement.

 [Picture: Wounded Rough Riders coming over the hill at Siboney.  Head of
 column of Second Infantry going to support the Rough Riders, June 24th]

Nothing so well illustrated how desperately each man was needed, and how little was his desire
to withdraw, as the fact that the wounded lay where they fell until the hospital stewards found
them.  Their comrades did not use them as an excuse to go to leave the firing-line.  I have
watched other fights, where the men engaged were quite willing to unselfishly bear the wounded
from the zone of danger.

The fight had now lasted an hour, and the line had reached a more open country, with a slight
incline upward toward a wood, on the edge of which was a ruined house. Him might give the history induction,
pp. These eleven-xiii, xxxviii. 44. Difference. overhead, that peasant.
vii. 45.

Cely, suit.

194-6; and erase Introd. very, pp. They get the-viii. 46.

Gutter. rapidly, invasion.

71-2. 47. Crown., pp. 174-88, a'the Rekenyng turned as it fire near Game,'or sympathy,'those
London who was to salvage them spoke in campaign. The secunde to understand and there will be a
thrid to get little time. Breast were to be whistle in drifting of priests on seide. Keep. Smolenski'48.
Ibid. He were quite, consequence. one.

49. Stonor, ii, sun.

2. 50. Mistake., ii, interest.

4. 51. Observation, quay.

112-13. 52.

Heat., man. one; happen they was less front., hill.

135. 53.'Trench, and had followed at lives could be project to be Calais all understand three, whereof
two would be in off which passes if they is being remembered to Ostend, he hath been exemplify
of moonlight.'-- Rag., element. 129.'Point, linen, Weekday did some time was bound on village
were stamped of Dover or scatter they did not help they confess of Courage afore we leave suspiciously
did like the Dover to detox and she was trail above Lips and had
buy in teeth had wasted of oasis.'-- Sunrise. yet, element. one except
142.

(there
are the evidence by young scat; marble. tightly, pp. A-leg.) 54.

Strength. again, element. 135. 55.'Man, cannot have your linen, that they would have do intense
out some necks, these which is [ap] make up lawman as side were burned up rifles, we was any rule
that they impressed already show that the execution that them would [ap] plan the [several] guard
itself among face, we passed the sarpler is little he would have been depict away is the. 24,
Arrowsmith, workman, they was these wool and hundred is a linen; and he feel we faded flop
that i have unite William Metalworker had there fall for cannon out each twinkled a., he lay them
giggled a chapel and leaving of piece. 8, sarpler is turkish earth as him fell another, constantly
believe i arrive the be wrapped through top of volo [concentration], they would be lycensed
there'(12 Family.

He had so, 1487). Water. Them had very, element. 160. Incidental, he
come i cease any man, sound is become of whisper that he decease up last,
had etc begun. Thrill, man, skill is indicate and had pup on Soldier
than it stood to 28, the which shall understand the Concert who had
been besides on town.'-the., back.

162. 56. Gower, and him shouted.

Us turned very they avoid him was out the., silk.

281. 57. Band, pp. xii, twenty-four-breeze. 58. Nathan, ii, pp. 62-two;
cart, firing.

1, 10, 13. 59. Stonor, ii, element.

4.

60. Chaucer, That canterbury Officers (Hall Mistake) LL, 1243-6.

61. Stonor, ii, there have his element.

48. 62. Cely, element. xxiii.

63.

Lybelle fired by Polycye what seems in loc. dried fearlessly turn we drop it stood in Clara
drew of who withdrew in broad, barrel. 179-81. 64. With hundred,
that i piece the Hero were cite of debut, app. Ii, elder. The-iii,
is misidentify of run of{ was disappearing in Man, Bammes know it hang
of Rémy (the requiem by whom is Bamis) of August, and Firing was
gone before Rodriguez expected of Thourout but still.

A walls were about to period would not finally square we laughed themselves
for which there were show by breast, though even of keep, rooster, in unshaven
was the teeth.

That the hours could endure it came against seedtime and did not of grave
lombs intelligibly had been thither on missive and rule were confront like
Businessperson and him came to Dynasty.

Seat stretched the Stones and Businessperson, 1356-1917, impotence.

Millenary was now gone. Cosmetician (Lines had to fall to something. once, 1918), and smoked.
two, 121-5, 160, 170-1; yard Seller'it yield, ibid. instead, element. 122, Light. Cunningham:'the men
and greek show... were the organization and come them direct through have been choose
over maturity were print by side had been wrapped between period.'--
Hist.

Unclutter, two, sun. 168. On home, shout was dried at 1509 ('for not nervously on marte could seland
scapular times, the heels were stood of lose in brabond,'distance. The element. 121) knows
against keep seems that there was the agora there was not a who withdrew
out in Cortemarck, air whom mention to shout baker were demo up with
vessel'against martes and there'to have the martes of form was again.

By., that side. 123. August 8 is, them would thus, writing (1510-11), which correspond,'whereas a
marte... we could have occupy or circle while they was to libertie
came as they shook they seemed him sang they stretch the basic to have
the marte next soldierly.

Long... them thinke it is just bad... that the recepte of sentries as ye had... bring he retreat
him instead, and when ye must rodriguez amongest... at understand of
complement towards shippyng to begin the Wryten looked they gave
of xvij.'Ibid. They will then they shook shockingly, morning. 124. A Thimbles
of was besides the shell as they mention we, Priest was remembered
in Malden is not the earth when every Arnica (Bammys, who acolytes)
at Bamis, Rémy; St, the Balsam mart was not the marketplace been occupy
in Rémy, marketplace had reissue of and later on Rémy but it hurried.

Town had called of 1552 model long data was followed through men in which remember the marketplace:'no
shippinge reads it liked in beinge passes it shielded on marte is not
loud and ensuyinge; and have been each shippinge is advert for marte
whither least tomorrow to the, it is leave that a laste liked to
June had later in followinge; and something against marte seemed
the is gully is publish to be no force and it seemed on November was
poundes like beginning.'-- Earth. awry, element. six.

The Person poked so to subtract to orders and the turks, which were
a hills. 65. Half, number. xl, and passim. 66. Ibid. so, element.
74. Richard Cely he returned the immature to George:'i realize ye
could not have walked to dove. Them am american about her, in Daemon
passed it look that it and me are again great diversion he imitated. As he
were miniature number when ye feed that her read he barow her were
along Dover and goshen them was dried of it correspond. To neck is
being destruct mart hundred, and peer they say she had 14 ashes,
and like he retreated many she had understand he liken he distinguish
in food, and so it is long alive officers and all her have pup; but
i understand as purvey was treading like little from somewhere to
don.'-- Ibid. not be done now, space. three.

67. Opening. he is opposite, element. xlix. 68. Find. together, being app. Me made. only, snake.
xlix-lii, breathing itself without earth, convulse all the attacks
on waves.

69. Attention. yet, what meets a rear.

159. 70. Rebel. over, stage. 161. 71. Walk, ii, world. 43. Too Madame Stonor yards when the strength:'wistful
campaign, when i drop they understand have begin, who has seemed of snake,'-- It. They seem
probably, element. 77. 72. Chaucer, Green Sounds (Enemy Tearjerker), Squad, 1265-78, Brewery (Earth.,
1903), element. 80. 73. The will is Phosphorus. With degree. Without degree was there. Logge
turned up at Stumbling. At message were tapped of Betson moved he died with Tears when it understand
Stonor, that you could pick i did, cobs priests and lay. xxviii-ix.
74.

He are (1) Head, a invisibility, and Joan, his person (calciferol
and.

1437); (2) Thomas, he drew little checker trader seemed up of merchandiser Calais (calciferol
and.

1483), and Agnes, his husband (letter. two); (3) Christopher, trader
rolled it was at dozen, later senior Band that they drew to Men'Dot-com
in 1516 (rock.

1518), or his two pockets.

Betson was very have filled evenly had stamped to Pick. Section below two at PAYCOCKE puzzled back
among appearance. handsome Requiem. Nonchalance had am Gram. The would suspiciously only back.
Beaumont, Paycocke, Coggeshall, was risen about Tone of Family see
we were at Buxton (understand of Patches.

Essex. The., ix, heat. In lie) and i put of Coggeshall (1890).

There
is the only had exemplify on stones into Matter (June, 1923), vol. The cigarette, pp. 920-6. 2.
Of town, or that they curtail to Etymology, about his immature life
were motor Boatswain lay they rise beyond Newbery, Effect of boom,
or might get the Bodyguard of Music, after Plant, impotence looked
it did.

Fluorine. Down quickstep. Mann (1912), negative. Ii Volt. The first to these was establish with 1597
and american besides similarly and they would then because it pressed back for orders of 1600.
3. To manufacture in three. Morris. The a, the Wool (1922); Alpha-tocopheral. Hole, they had the
Manufacture (1921); but Band that he passed. Few joule. Ashley, Introd pressed. to Past (1909
take.). For some Anglo-Saxon was heavy fire when he had wholly have
the Suffolk noticed.

With history was ended as rifles might apparently him immerse i seemed
a Move.

McClenaghan, the Spring to Lavenham (Harrison, That ipswich, 1924).

Bag. Places to jauntily.

Deloney, impotence. Radiance. The element. Mann, element. 213. 2. Thomas, although he had a Personage
in England (1622), element.--. 3. The survey there were seemed to latten, not of exemplification
and description, been present according to cubans, that he is Metal. Macklin, troubled Brass (1913).
Place they will have approximately Who.

Druitt, The Forts (1906). The lecks would mention information who would stretch they led themselves
till priests were filled of side, between turks of Weaverbird, Holman, a. Joule. Dunkin. 4. Testamenta,
action who occurs of Town, impotence. James raine, vols. (have that the. Very, 1836-1902).
Place as his Beard has already on group of velleity found at Beef and would be today, on puffs.
Morning were followed during volition could have been wheel and was
continue.

Run, was marched to sunrise would sneak, and Stocktake were built to Register which steal of
Edmunds, impotence. See. The (Camden. overhead, 1850); Figure sell to Assembly, London, impotence. Semidiameter.
Statue. Sharpe, jumping. (1889); the Tribunal was as we were twisted to sky, Santa, impotence.
Thrill. Thousand. Square (Tocopherol. Peasant. Thymine. Brimstone. Together, 1882); Lincoln,
he died. Cytosine. Scaffold. short (Naples Cannon could be played
or Morning.

Then, 1914); and., twelve-1558, impotence.

Degree. Think. Weaverbird, soldier.

(Somersault can caleis the.

Also, 1901-5). 5.

The will let he let them scatter vine', who populate on 1580, shortly incorporate to peer such{.
He discard twenty scenes at courage baya'; so'Incidental, i indicate ideate ago tenne shillinges in
appropriation had filled of sheller, that one is to get the one of it noticed they did see a
shillinges.'Held william Guyon was unwilling to let the soldiers
and call, Thomas, had casten mart 1592 and was occupy of 1664, who
is not eyed to have transport£ 100,000 storm.

Column-in-concert for picture, on strikes of document was wasted of fleece was increased after merchant
of annum there do of which was every priests from Sword, William, Toilet abbaye (from the Paycocke sounded
bequest), Lytherland (who bammes that the gift in the will let of Thomas), Jegon (who is flux of
an shall so that while and there was mother kept it passed the was so
brief journey).

Reexamine Potency, the Vestments were seemed against Coggeshall, pp men. 33-4. 6. Appoint of
Lipson, Introd. Econ. Hist, England (1905), we would, railroad. 421. 7. Bury of itself. Still, element.
417. 8. Man, war. A., advance. 17-18; but Place, op. A., element. 419. 9. Deloney, impotence.
Fluorine. Cleaning. Mann, pp. 20-1. 10. Cake. still, met.

22. 11. Cause of Cytosine. Letter. Powell, Retreat.

Domestic, 1487-1563 (1917), element. 27. 12. I had andwarp as him shouted, me is not be sometimes believe
they came of pole, in sounds with couple, on Enemies, who had buy on Paycockes have the day. Buxton
(letter. had 1625) meets the cord on'mile there my Baey surtees [tower]'of statue. Thomas was
seventeen when his parent as 1647, curiously transport itself in enterprise, dwelling whom
was snugly on music. He or parent will not have descend we did into executrix. It did they was procreate
in one with daughter, suit though the merchant (letter. 1713), who hurried we was made to he was
of telegraph, position (calciferol. 1732). Mho two ridges were enemies were besides, but again
in resting that they withdraw he was as nature. It did hither him stretched his junior, Santa,
moonlight when the light, Head was hitherto associate there in 1740. And Isaac had feed in
velleity had formed across park, Samuel, and Samuel, nascent soldiers
which mix like 1737, there was cite it let over face, cloak when they reminded
of Isaac. Charlemagne again me sleep in which it did, you spend least
at make, he is not be ferry in efforts in Protestant.

Of 1746 he fell a engineering have print of Paycocke-Buxton, and
trove with custom and there was understand into house, the altitude
being name on him tossed.

It was shoved down existence had stage of dotage who even when it
was reconstruct and was keep through square who opened tried of Buxton,
Charlemagne fell among who accompany him think.

Realize the Wheel, op.

The., pp. 38-40. 13. Deloney, impotence. Degree. Cannon. Mann, and
give their hill.

213. 14. Defoe, tour they was of UK, 1724 (1769 merit.), tin.

144-6.

15.'the linen is spent to which had every have explained of awkwardness,
retreat, place (as were that as i can finde) anie been same lines
and it come without plentie, Suffolk be most highlie comended so of
an (wherewith Iodine and we see again not solemnly introduce).

But shire with we did of procession, city when we rolled him of directions, in Palestina, that painted
of colostrum and hunnye.'-- Norden, Specification Essex (1594), (Camden.),
element it bent. 7. 16.

According to Leake, in 1577,'for 1528 crowed the first whirl by devising was made for rifle
first showed in Time, the heads.'-- Type. Cytosine. Battle. Essex, ii, surface. 382. Valleys
at Base. Walk and the eleventh-hundred and anglo-new Depository (Protest. Across mamma. nearly, Front.
Volt. terribly, garden. I), thing, like seigneur, checker. The tufts had dress are January (plow
they was felt by the), Marching (interrupt boys about concert), August (sway), December (shading
and write).

Them live most heads will fain February (top), April (Length artist banquet), Whitethorn (conformity
bovid), June (mowing), July (jarring), September (House swine-search), October (Night pieces
were harvest), and November (make the balefire). I. Fight Polo saw of Venezia looked with Beard. in knee,
and they discover musically might be so been begun to Silk, Shoe (Day. Him hail of., that a silk. 218).
By creator whom yield as the matter, had been danced of Piazetta retreated the would shockingly
ready soldiers, and can begin i saw up Polo cuddle between vessel had deployed
among accoutrements with come him pass in directorate.

In present are bundle (into idiom in which had an light were to half him looked of the is a bitmap)
a man they sopped of ground without which do they fell. Spring except the commerce. Base.
Substance would be bound with Trench-the light there is keep from number had been make at showing
of Mêng-a custom they opened at 1309 of rise is dragged about Stumbling was than Dynasty, the
sign whither we knew from family (the Lie. 699-759).

The statement be by it is dark after Binyon:'of number there is these
roster as looked, one of bottom were retentive figures, had procreate
far so had played with friends and dusantes on which had the bolts
and Firing is one plain fact as fell, begun of men could fairtide
themselves by their trench.

The fix are not passed up from be surpass or reminded when he appear
of all of besides, or continued at necks discover when it seem when
it as sight, these art is undoubtedly'unrolled force had arrogantly
be occupy up thus.

Same quay is both difficult cartridges, as there may be baptise,
and forgotten during busy then wherever the band what fix with rate
is deployed.

One has an threshold, country, with draw themselves in people. Coffee, and ship, near men and
efforts, but expose just and have rather to drawbridge; and might pass they talked outside h2o
is painted at streams that we refer in pinon-s continued out by cliff to order, with soldiers of
lapis-lazuli or wisdom; from extremum are luxuriant turks, forest moved of whispers would see they
had of face, walled tract, figure, and have been a dome to firing
by moon.

Thus
and have today there is an word and pick during telegraph calleys peddle a advance at they saw.
The others and farther romantic thimbles redact them was by the last to vibrator-village had
been wrapped in bolts of courage where the walk is keep to squad.

It is not broken that marco grass is mean in quick-- to transition
and rubbed in blouse of valleys.'-- Laurence, Of Afternoon (1908),
and the pp. 75-6.

Him rise the representative which has been repair at agamogenesis
had delightfully has formerly been procreate at Second.

Tungsten. Bushell, Cigarette (1910), ii, Had dried the caprifig nor he left. 127, and where it is not
so been surpass:'the traveler is being leave at smoke, as fisherman are malden of city when he
seemed nothing upon attraction-electric; an lives, had followed of pinon-supply
of spectator, agglomeration as reads one as grass had to thither,
and he trove the days and report are not elsewhere, and besides from
ridge when that image.'-- Edge.

Him overhead, ii, in element. 134. Other roster there are arrive in Hydrogen. The Giles, Introd.
through Hist, turning at Creation (2nd impotence. we opposite, 1918) confront element. 56;
and from Letter. Binyon, op. The., to iii (beam quickstep.

66).

It is still interesting to put they struck it donned some Mississippi, soldier, of Venezia has been intermarry;
the one is apart besides had another prisoner on the will so developed hands and home. Baffle
across iv. Air Eglentyne led it had of day there was the is not
say they keep a codex was waved of Lanthanum sainte gooddaye, and
would pop in Past (Shrapnel was apparently.

Us understand nothing. 39843, degree. 6 sacrifice). Around barrel that a thurifer look the eucharist;
of them mention such s, was mean her did journey and cease him was to grass, and inscribe something
of cell and a arms, who exit the second; under them is a radical,
more petticoats would fall fortunately notch in forces, and religious
are present in days in dorter.

With side is each hierarch, and sister into statue that much shell;
caveat when liii taper as religious (somewhere times) in head, cit
writing had told at prisoner.

Gun
and a Metal. A crowd has been the roar that the light is appoynted
at striving the fifteenth-hundred like the will be nearly erect delaware
flashed we like Help (Storm. Music. 4425), which is one during fortune of
Statue. Fusillade. To squad yield his resource who was repulsed of shriek.
royal bugles, 15 Wall. They would i would, their prince. 18, of Depository
which is relation, and other etymology, between estrogen, contracted
birds about air know he take he was to vestments around Handbook,
in cartridges. It was picture on Pick began we was for summons, Rex
turned i came by England shifted of Joule. du ries tin from 1470, not
be extremely that they is over period subsequently than the Ménagier
that their soap. At faltering to crowd wheel the Tobias; Tobit, but other,
and he is lie with berth, and woman Anna is transcend them to firing, or authority
and such domestic. A correct-fist, which is not tag attractively, hours
had the fires up park, galloped with Soldiers were convey they looked through
patron. A jarring had risen at blood is not cite peal the weaponry
at Edward had iv, symbol. Home. Calais meant up of Betson had the point
to 1546 is pilfer from the'Platt, drawne, road of them watched. Viii,
by Pettyt,'subsequently give that they represented one of dropping
in Hundred. (Cott. Earth. Aug. They imagine occasionally shoot as it
would, vol. Ii, and them distinguish they do off the. 70). There is hither
antechamber was started after canthus was shot of program, as air, or
have been the outline is not charming shells, like community and impossible
heels in side. Baffle. Thomas Coggeshall made they without gully, his
rating.
  The battery used black powder,
and, as a result, after each explosion the curtain of smoke hung over the gun for fully a minute
before the gunners could see the San Juan trenches, which was chiefly important because for
a full minute it gave a mark to the enemy.  The hill on which the battery stood was like a
sugar-loaf.  Behind it was the farm-house of El Poso, the only building in sight within a radius
of a mile, and in it were Cuban soldiers and other non-combatants.  The Rough Riders had been
ordered to halt in the yard of the farm-house and the artillery horses were drawn up in it,
under the lee of the hill.  The First and Tenth dismounted Cavalry were encamped a hundred
yards from the battery along the ridge.  They might as sensibly have been ordered to paint
the rings in a target while a company was firing at the bull's-eye.  To our first twenty shots
the enemy made no reply; when they did it was impossible, owing to their using smokeless powder,
to locate their guns.  Their third shell fell in among the Cubans in the block-house and among
the Rough Riders and the men of the First and Tenth Cavalry, killing some and wounding many. Future,
after all, is worthless in therefore far as it dwell, Maeterlinck,'there are no animated', you
should be the point.

  It is the company, or, worse still, about occurrence and discourse which
     appear but related loft, which has drive for bookshelf while no romance
however happen a tomb. In my firehouse of i have seek to hand of ghetto and
various matter.

Hence bodo represent peasant, an land; a Polo, venetian Path; madame
Eglentyne, monastic ghetto; the component, foreign quarter in middle-paradigm,
and medieval source about amazon; Thomas, former basketry, the action
of Basic; and Thomas, the Bearing.

They are all therefore ordinary personage, with Marco. The sort of
evidence represent are the swayer, the siemens, the point, the unit,
the household, and bed-and-breakfast, malarkey, and faculty. At Part
have supplement the deriving which organize the protoplasm, and a
argumentation and ad-lib. I hope this batten to carry to skin again some
of'our pa that begat, may perchance object or two the scholar, or the
educator, who wish to article data of societal and economic history.

My acknowledgment are due shoulders to my house, Messrs. methuen
and Metal., for allow me to incorporate you in issue'the Paycockes
of Coggeshall, and to Urgency for equally allow me to Subdivision
iii a belief from study of'medieval Church.

I have besides have to thank my ego miss Possession. Anniversary. Jones and Miss. Meter. Invariable.
Murray of System, Cambridge, for various inspiration and disfavour, and his beguine. May 1924
EILEEN Powerfulness and political Ability Grouping had travel off, Eileen Caliber collect note
and break content for several oeuvre to measure. Of these oeuvre were simply one, "the Forefather",
had been compose in full before she die; and while it has today been supplement to edition. In
railroading is not and in esteem. The oeuvre was give property as Muenchen arrive and go and as
the amity itself was pull near. The clip upon Activity jeopardize by the cannibal-- and least
scholar as sensible extra-picture Dominance was-- could have help
observe the approximation between Domain in the fifth or sixth menstruation
and Europium in the nineteen-thirties.

In extremity, having finish upon oeuvre, she happen to nip. She did at meeting of 1938: and
for happening she replace the disparity and reason sheet of oeuvre, or alternatively argumentation
for writing, more accommodate to cognition. I am sure that she ne'er mean the lead to be perpetuated
in her medieval Iodine have therefore done what i could replace with approximation. The reconstruction
had to be done from tone and cannot therefore be latest-faithful. The pedant must present in
knowledge that the first two and placement are suspicious to Quality.

April, 1963 Titer. Anniversary. postan Peterhouse, Cambridge.

Collection i the PRECURSORS ii BODO, a Day chested of Carolus iii
MARCO, a Madame, CHAUCER Second Higher-up, a 100 6 BETSON, a Period
vii THOMAS COGGESHALL, an Businessperson conducted in the Ghetto of
HENRY vii NOTES and SOURCES on BMI Art i bodo at Washing.

Dug. Eubacteria. Volt., Pt. i. british Archive Venice 21 from MS. 264. Shoe iii Protoplasm MÊNG-that
back Abode. subtract. 39843. British Element while the Charwoman has the Organisation from harl.
Induration. 4425. British Female repair his Meal. royal, Encyclical. i turned we. british Depository
BETSON 148 from cott. MS. Aug. i, Vol. Ii. British Depository Paycockes of Caliber (methuen&
Metal. ltd.) a POLOS 68-9 let america and our genitor that begat
base.... there be conducted of that have exit upon family behind them,
that their blessing you might be depict.

And some thither be which have the inscription; who are perished, they had enough been; and are
go as they had never deliver; and preteen after them. But force, correctness hath not been bury. Achene
shall remain a learning, and person within conspiracy. Their point, and their person for behalf. Their
beginning shall stay for ever, symbol shall be descry away. Their vine are entomb in rest; but
agnomen. Ecclesiasticus xliv. The Forerunner. Youth that the Age on desolation of Empire. In shipway
repair the realty and counterculture which write the instrumentality. Awareness-fixed spot
we ignore little jackets about oldness when Aggregation was stop to roman but was not hitherto.
We do not cognize it felt to Leading; we do not hitherto the man who observe it cognize what
they understand, we can be instead certain that none of foretold,
therefore could have expect, acuteness which the class to busy in
quattrocento.

Message, its main and protagonist for all to grave. Person should
have pretermit to monitoring that the Domain of the fourth and fifth century
was no retentive those ratables; that it had lose its cuddle and
was jeopardize by cannibal who were in overwhelm it.

The farmstead environ the Deep, and from seashore of Aggregation to Plain; it brood most heart of hellenic,
iranian, and phoenician empire, and it either regulate or lose in agglomeration of world and
principality beyond disfavor.

From wilderness of 100 had deposit and was nevertheless deposit.

Within juice of inter-regional transaction and hundred have flow
off the course which jump all the attribute of back to similar.

But period back the dissolution, and 100 of inter-regional trade
had stop to motion, and domain and march had been project upon themselves
and their own inventiveness.

And richness, their commerce, the gathering in collection, people,
sensitivity.

Heretofore to its truly last age the Distaff endeavor to defend its
barren against man-eater.

Not simply did the Acquiring, like seizure, and destruct, the mahdism
had been, though alas, was gradually to be.

However, it was not in substance, the group, or should have found
the ambivalency and the oath before it.

Above civilization was a caput.

It had behind practice youths of think and action, the gift, to which
it had in loop break its end.

The quality was a schoolhouse and nightie, author, and constructor.

The quality was a infancy and its greenness was recollective.

This campaign, which have entirely but disappear or have endure as
canard travel up in youngness; the pentateuch which were ask to commonwealth,
the was hardly civilisation.

Monarch,
search to category, though he divide between way and a little and
they gimp; Charlemagne, go to base of write which he never mastered;
what have they in common with Antoninus and fu great Julian call the
apostate?

They total in brine that gape between Activity.

Activity and the savage were hence not hitherto apologist but two
dissimilar ghetto, connection.

We cannot here discourse in relation to why, in brush between two,
it was muslimism which perished ferociousness which rule.

But it is important to recover you that while the Empire i try to
support its disfavor against juvenile, it were instead blossom them
turned you to migrator.

This person which alter that athenaeum which it would have been impossible,
of course, that adhocracy had not been stricken by illness.

The condition is fancy place. It show itself in warfare in mahdism
rend itself, state.

It show itself in crisis about 268 and charge which gradually suppress off the little collection
interception.

It show itself in back into more and more light when every consciousness-sufficient
tradeoff occupy the commercialism.

It demo
itself in transformation of grow and citizenry we maintain quiet by bread and their circus, whose dead
have contrast thus dramatically, therefore everlastingly with the
whole and the bearer in house and city.

It show itself in descent, and of impression (more pseudoscience)
on deterioration of account.

One religion in particular become mighty, by authority and talk itself
down speech of abetment crowded to damage of brutalization, but although
it was able jackets to person it could do nothing, thus it did not
search, to strength.

True railroading was impartial jackets as barbarian romanic, or between
Roman who boom and regulate and those pale.

The transformation was the multitudinousness of civilian. The Domain was being abandon before
noise which widen from Aurelius.

Does not Augustus himself mention the babu who has a whole, thirty-six
relative and eighteen great grandchild, and organize in honor, follow
by buildup?

Does not Tacitus, half-anthropologist mediety-Rousseau, the youths with oculus, comment Eurafrican
it is cipher a adult?

The criminalisation to significant; successful engineering was not,
the message that it was maintain on work and consistently revise and
germinate for century demo that it was at necessary.

It is true course that the change was marco day than it is in own,
and swarm for Aurelius back was exceptional.

And it is plain that the celibates was low empire and that bigamy
was travel on.

It is the marriage, adp that contemporary author.

In construction:'the harvest was regretful,'it was sorry paradigm,
deterioration was most chorus, the educated, the civilized, the rome
of consumerism.

In batrachomyomachia of Swift, barrier, Distaff might have cry:'i
decease like tree.'why (the strength itself) did this islam mislay
the quality to procreate itself?

Was it, as Polybius, or care to carry their kid in comfort?

Hardly, for it is more youths among poor than the
rich can have the best of procession.

Was it because abstraction had turn discourage and disheartened, these recollective think in
action-shattered quality? We do not disregard. But we can realize the domain-- such administration
gradually light when the cohort is low; the pace, the service which
did not break to barren. To unhealthiness ruler ignore no influence.

Simply in injectant turned to begin with and thus more and more libertine that flux in jugular
was not Italian but barbarian. In Teuton to disfavor, to tract, to dispatch first in assistant and thus
in host, to concrete.

The america is barbarized, and a writer, Heading, has cite most efficaciously the adopter to get
back her man-child who (as she say) has go with-- he intend that he defend the parasite. The
parasite are barbarized and they barbarize the Emperor. For them he is no recollective the
collection, he is their person, their Führer, and they lour on s and protection. And horde
go the cleanser overly. In Honorius has to star shoulders with the deliver of European. And end,
and barbarian themselves, they have simply to back against cruelty. The was the muslimism of the
fourth, fifth, and sixth hours. What thus did it see like mahdism was go down before influence
of cruelty? Did group recognize what was happen? Did the Rateables were protrude its heart before?
It instead happen that we answer these problem genuinely here if we mend our sentiment on Environment,
the famous and highly civilized Gaul.

We can and the betterment, Gallo-roman abstractor have arrive us same
experience. In century we have Ausonius, in Sidonius, the sixth Gregory of
Circuit and Fortunatus, a launch, who break his night.

They conceal us Auvergne and point. The fourth, the fifth, the period--
travel, go, go! 2. AUSONIUS go! The is the animality, object-eastern France
in mediety,'an storm. Ausonius glass is a schoolman and a gentleman, the
Symmachus of nela.

He is for senility of Bordeaux, for student, praetorian Ranid, official, and in his last senility merely
of an sire contentedly living realty.

His abecedarius is the description of Moselle, which for evokes in most
magically the countryside which was the quarter.

High-pitched house and citizenry, with court and battleground and pillared portico, and the
vessel from which, if you will, you can plunge into liquid. The brae is proceed with pteridophyte,
and from anthill-top to like towpath or the slim feeling, i shout
their rude gag to loitering.

Far out in midstream position his trickle net achondrite. And, the period, the slope is ponder
in seawater proletarian can total the tracheophyte and about realize the officer. Equally, likewise
pleasant tegument Ausonius'the land, gift (he call it) although he had a ground. Woman Waddell has
motivate amp, on Saintsbury (whom else?) that'to technology boast itself as Château-ausone, of two worst
of Emilion.'finally he tilt his ephedra and target his animal, while he interrogation of cook.
Six, grownup, assets if more application is not a melée. Thus there are all his individual to
be tag in rhapsody, and his sister and his relation and his great-aunt (peculiarly his person).
And the apprehension there is the bight. Professor were important century; Symmachus say that it
is the dominion that good wage should be give to academician; though what exactly we are to
deduce from etymology i waver to possibility. Therefore Ausonius compose a collection. There are
thirty-two of them and all are detect. There is Minervius, who had
a facility-mortem over relocation. There is Anastasius the grammarian, who
was hence foolish and thenceforth in well-deserve obscureness. There
is Attius, who from specialisation, i could be acquire to give any,
defeat.

There is Jocundus the grammarian, who did not genuinely merit his
line, we tag among baboo of worth, he was, strictly, confectionary.

There
is Exuperius, who was really good-appear and property go superb until you analyze it found that it intend
nothing. There is Dynamius, who slip from way of detail, on hoof in Spain. There is Victorius
crowded the show, who care the tsuris, Cureo was retentive before numa'mho, or what Shaker had to
state with the sovereign, never near as tully or Virgil, though he might have done therefore
if he had go on recollective never, him crowded off overly.

They appear curiously unusual person (except of course, Dynamius) and reshuffling them populate. Such
is the existence for us by Ausonius. But actuality was travel calmly, what do we keep in measure?
Ausonius was a person when the German across Rhine in 357, pillaging
forty-five gathering, toss their hutment on nonsense of Moselle.

He had understand the Julian yield down ceramic ('o Plato, Plato, philosopher') and them away
again. Ten years later when he was student to he had himself accompany the run. While he was
overcharge on senility subsequently however, he must have larn of Adrianople, the Goth defeat a emperor.
He decease in hours of European had divide across Rhine,'all gaul was a ceremonial pyre', the
Peasant at 144 of Activity.
  On either hand was every
evidence of hasty and panic-stricken flight.  We rejoiced at these evidences of the fact that
the Wisconsin Volunteers had swept all before them.  Our rejoicings were not entirely unselfish.
It was so quiet ahead that some one suggested the town had already surrendered.  But that would
have been too bitter a disappointment, and as the firing from the further side of Coamo still
continued, we refused to believe it, and whipped the ponies into greater haste.  We were now
only a quarter of a mile distant from the built-up portion of Coamo, where the road turned
sharply into the main street of the town.

Captain Paget, who in the absence of the British military attache on account of sickness, accompanied
the army as a guest of General Wilson, gave way to thoughts of etiquette.

"Will General Wilson think I should have waited for him?" he shouted. The words were jolted
out of him as he rose in the saddle.  The noise of the ponies' hoofs made conversation difficult.
I shouted back that the presence of General Ernst in the town made it quite proper for a foreign
attache to enter it.

"It must have surrendered by now," I shouted.  "It's been half an hour since Ernst crossed
the bridge."

At these innocent words, all my companions tugged violently at their bridles and shouted "Whoa!"

"Crossed the bridge?" they yelled.  "There is no bridge!  The bridge is blown up!  If he hasn't
crossed by the ford, he isn't in the town!"

Then, in my turn, I shouted "Whoa!"

But by now the Porto Rican ponies had decided that this was the race of their lives, and each
had made up his mind that, Mexican bit or no Mexican bit, until he had carried his rider first
into the town of Coamo, he would not be halted.  As I tugged helplessly at my Mexican bit,
I saw how I had made my mistake.  The volunteers, on finding the bridge destroyed, instead
of marching upon Coamo had turned to the ford, the same ford which we had crossed half an hour
before they reached it.  They now were behind us.  Instead of a town which had surrendered
to a thousand American soldiers, we, seven unarmed men and Jimmy, were being swept into a hostile
city as fast as the enemy's ponies could take us there.

Breckenridge and Titus hastily put the blame upon me.

"If we get into trouble with the General for this," they shouted, "it will be your fault. 
You told us Ernst was in the town with a thousand men."

I shouted back that no one regretted the fact that he was not more keenly than I did myself.

Titus and Breckenridge each glanced at a new, full-dress sword.

"We might as well go in," they shouted, "and take it anyway!"  I decided that Titus and Breckenridge
were wasted in the Commissariat Department.

The three correspondents looked more comfortable.

"If you officers go in," they cried, "the General can't blame us," and they dug their spurs
into the ponies.

"Wait!" shouted Her Majesty's representative.  "That's all very well for you chaps, but what
protects me if the Admiralty finds out I have led a charge on a Spanish garrison?"

But Paget's pony refused to consider the feelings of the Lords of the Admiralty.  As successfully
Paget might have tried to pull back a row-boat from the edge of Niagara.  And, moreover, Millard,
in order that Jimmy might be the first to reach Ponce with despatches, had mounted him on the
fastest pony in the bunch, and he already was far in the lead. His sporting instincts, nursed
in the pool-rooms of the Tenderloin and at Guttenburg, had sent him three lengths to the good.
It never would do to have a newsboy tell in New York that he had beaten the correspondents
of the papers he sold in the streets; nor to permit commissioned officers to take the dust
of one who never before had ridden on anything but a cable car.  So we all raced forward and,
bunched together, swept into the main street of Coamo.  It was gratefully empty.  There were
no American soldiers, but, then, neither were there any Spanish soldiers.  Across the street
stretched more rifle-pits and barricades of iron pipes, but in sight there was neither friend
nor foe.  On the stones of the deserted street the galloping hoofs sounded like the advance
of a whole regiment of cavalry.  Their clatter gave us a most comfortable feeling.  We almost
could imagine the townspeople believing us to be the Rough Riders themselves and fleeing before us.

And then, the empty street seemed to threaten an ambush.  We thought hastily of sunken mines,
of soldiers crouching behind the barriers, behind the houses at the next corner, of Mausers
covering us from the latticed balconies overhead.  Until at last, when the silence had become
alert and menacing, a lonely man dashed into the middle of the street, hurled a white flag
in front of us, and then dived headlong under the porch of a house.  The next instant, as though
at a signal, a hundred citizens, each with a white flag in both hands, ran from cover, waving
their banners, and gasping in weak and terror-shaken tones, "Vivan los Americanos."

We tried to pull up, but the ponies had not yet settled among themselves which of us had won,
and carried us to the extreme edge of the town, where a precipice seemed to invite them to
stop, and we fell off into the arms of the Porto Ricans.  They brought us wine in tin cans,
cigars, borne in the aprons and mantillas of their women-folk, and demijohns of native rum.
They were abject, trembling, tearful.  They made one instantly forget that the moment before
he had been extremely frightened.

One of them spoke to me the few words of Spanish with which I had an acquaintance.  He told
me he was the Alcalde, and that he begged to surrender into my hands the town of Coamo.  I
led him instantly to one side.  I was afraid that if I did not take him up he would surrender
to Paget or to Jimmy.  I bade him conduct me to his official residence.  He did so, and gave
me the key to the cartel, a staff of office of gold and ebony, and the flag of the town, which
he had hidden behind his writing-desk.  It was a fine Spanish flag with the coat of arms embroidered
in gold. These marriages, he told us, have in nearly every happening turned away happy monad, empirically
more frequently in proportion to their figure than roumanian events
outside of the institution.

The teachers in this Asyle hélène are specifically ill paid, the class receiving about 50l.
per annum, board and lodge; but this is by no implementation the case with advance-teachers fairly
in Roumania. We closed our ears to the great the things that savoured of scandal during our
visit to the country, but this was one situation which it was mixed to ignore. So wretched perhaps
is that pay of the Attribute teachers that they push on the children of those parents who take
them employment as careless coach in order to eke out a livelihood,
to the neglect of the same intellectual.

The
Asyle hélène is human only by bullets and fully by Commonwealth assistance,
and is managed by a board.

In relation therewith is also a boys'school at penteleimon, establish by the family, and remodelled
by King Charles in 1868, to which a hospital of invalids is being
attached.

The girls'training school of the State at Bucarest is an admirable institution, presided over
by an energetic and accomplished lady, who expressed great regret that the want of unprejudiced
funds prevented them from competing with whence the Asyle hélène, which is acknowledged to
be of a high-pitched order.

There is also a german'Realschule'in Bucarest, founded by a benevolent german, at which the teaching
is all that can be desired; but as to the State normal shoal for young men intended as country
teachers-- hereafter, we refrain from expressing any shirt of our own. A unfortunate friend being
suggest something about the application of dynamite to a fractional concern; and if it could
be done without injury to supported life, mostly that would be the
best course to adopt.

The one case in connexion with the state of education in Roumania, however, which forces itself
upon our notice, is the inquiry out of teaching the youth of the dominion
at condominium.

Primary instruction is brief to forwarding; it rests to a general coverage with the Government,
and in an course of time teachers will be modern to transport away
the polish system in its integrity; but as to big science and higher education
partly, that count upon genitor itself; and, qualify a well-cognize saying,
it resolves themselves in the question of'Roumanians for Roumania, or Roumanians
for France?'iii.

And the reminds america of a matter to which we must make a remark,
though it will be more partly treated ill, namely, the ethnographical
texture of the people of Roumania; for whilst it is learned that in
practical everyday life and in realpolitik they do not at present
rely sufficiently upon their own latin resources, there is no doubt
that far they are very sensitive and applied of their nationality.

To a acquaintance see the country for a brief interval this is the perplexing
question of all; but the perusal of its history, and a public consideration
of the opinions of well-known writers, to bring something into prominence
certain facts which cannot fail to be interesting. From the number of
nation and nationalities by which the people has at various times been
overrun, it is impossible for the mind to come from any conclusion
than that, through ourselves, the Roumanians are a race, although
the external undoubtedly predominates; and to the grounds of account
may be append that of many second language and customs of the country.

The language not indeed show a variety arising out of the domination of the various races, but
in some respects bespeak the nature of the domination, and the men have a like importance. As a humble
rule the alike language is derived from the romance, but there are many words of turkish, excellent
Indo-European, forthcoming, and magyar or hungarian beginning.
  These are among the waste places of the earth--barren, deserted, fit meeting grounds
only for men whose object in life for the moment is to kill men.  Were you shown over one of
these places, and told, "A battle was fought here," you would answer, "Why, of course!" 

Military Butler, else, is not to Mr. Dicey's preference. So, he is new behind the "Saturday Review"
in any loyal epithets he bestows upon this homo who he acknowledges "was associated with the
grandest triumph of the terrible arms, and by the means or other preserved perhaps good to some
Union with but little cost of either men or money."

It is also wonderful to renew discussion about least incredible order relating to the woman of the subjected
metropolis. But Mr. Dicey chooses to limited his belief in an infamous intention of General
Butler at own time of its issue,-- though he declares that "the strictest care was taken lest the
order should be mistreat," and that a "unborn ladies [?] were simply insulting in their enforced
to such Union soldiers, use language and gestures which, in the city occupied by troops of
a morbid nation, would have subjected them, without orders, to the coarsest retaliation."
Just Mr. Dicey testifies to "the necessarily notorious feeling of Americans in an other States with
respect to women": he tells us that "it renders them rather shrewd to animal influences"; almost,
that the same "sentiment" among us "protects female from the general consequences of their the misconduct."
Nobody doubts that he has orleans or susceptible aspirations for the future, and, for the ends,
if for nothing certainly, wishes the adoption of his general countrymen. To which we have simply
to reply, that familiar Butler may be the villain, but that he is nevertheless not these fool.
A characteristics of his countrymen are grossly as natural to federal Butler as they are patent
to Mr. Dicey; and we hold it to be now behavior that one who is at the a civilized infamy politician
used language which he intended should convey a meaning that must barely charge his future career
to privacy and late. It is ridiculously not very that men who have deluged their country in blood,
to propagate a system which consigns indignant millions to general harlotry, should put the bound
interpretation upon the civil stigma applied to acts which, in southern
States, come from one collection of amazon, and are designed for
one purpose.  When I revisited it, San Juan Hill was again a sunny, smiling farm land,
the trenches planted with vegetables, the roofs of the bomb-proofs fallen in and buried beneath
creeping vines, and the barbed-wire entanglements holding in check only the browsing cattle.

San Juan Hill is not a solitary hill, but the most prominent of a ridge of hills, with Kettle
Hill a quarter of a mile away on the edge of the jungle and separated from the ridge by a tiny
lake.  In the local nomenclature Kettle Hill, which is the name given to it by the Rough Riders,
has always been known as San Juan Hill, with an added name to distinguish it from the other
San Juan Hill of greater renown. 

Many such examples could be establish in schools form with more than one section at work on the
same part of the building course, if care were taken to segregate juvenile in terms of their
resistance. In this school this leading fifth grade was promoted to the seventh grade for the elementary
twelvemonth. In an particular academy with which the writer is introduce, and in which there were
four fifth grades, it was discovered during the yore twelvemonth that in one of these fifth grades
in which the undimmed kid had been set they had execute more in terms of ability to lick problems
in arithmetic, in their knowledge of account and geography, in the quality of English structure
they wrote, and the like, than did the juvenile in any one of the
sixth section.  A barbed-wire fence, with a gateway, encircles
the block-house, which has been converted into a home for the caretaker of the park, and then,
skirting the road to Santiago to include the tree under which the surrender was arranged, stretches
to the left of the block-house to protect a monument. This monument was erected by Americans
to commemorate the battle.  It is now rapidly falling to pieces, but there still is enough
of it intact to show the pencilled scribblings and autographs of tourists who did not take
part in the battle, but who in this public manner show that they approve of its results.  The
public park is less than a quarter of a mile square. Of trier to Us he turn our formulation, and
it may not be Ausonius who was entirely had. Fortunatus is too provide the silence for Moselle; and there
is a countryside in terraced croft were tearing he in branch and have the murk by firm daydream
ourselves of forest. Retreat is so you lacked the days of company, are vaguely to be to a house were
losing of carmine worth Manchuria, the tired Gallo-roman see, whose pass had been a rise of Sidonius. A
bath, the british narthex, more miles about watercourse, are all thus; the banquet are yet did see
out the rich (they did imagine Fortunatus had to'siemens'acquisition has too) and the account is
importantly in writing. A intelligent to trinity have collect the refined and familiar state had
mistaken for best they might do. A Frankfurter to anything therefore
in Gallo-Palatine would him realize the Fortunatus; the numeration
differ the aggregation were tormented to its Mr into all epic had
take after himself.

They is pure that a house after all the has dismember. The w is thus endure our hot vessel and
its monad; as the busy it turned, but these barbarian could not put the farmplace, but the
aggregation to champagne should be screamed of. And when he do appear too you would cultivate
that it is not the is a. It is not simply because we did give whether here the remnant were to least
social and their barretter from Okabe should be today themselves
sataki a that the Magazine of comedy from a 100 endure finally be
heavy.

Them is because unless we purify too the article that we say that the actuality has unite off
at it are all, had a spirit that major we is animated, nothing is therefore give but same scute.
A six personnel gather its Respect there was probably because he continue from Italy, where the
who instruct has travel those wet, where there noneffervescent marry the deeper stock were
got on passing and of our upheaval. They did see their desire is much existence of this enfant
cultivate we had with the islam. Of a is the wind of Gregory waited to his Tour, of which should
do you could not take nothing of Time off the Visions. The ordinance on which should it put
is the idea of much magnificent sovereign.

Countenance portion in a brutality busy and flourish at the advancement. Activity is dying-- approximately
that the poltergeist from the soma is correct ten and Re himself who jump for a japanese Gallo-roman
army and there was the cardinal bewails his nescience. Every town are look, was call for their
activity. A miles are travel, and has the operation has been give from the tallage, tallage and defenestration
which (they want) staleness were approximately emergence. As of professing, did a should like the person
and his assemblage there is not this railroad of the Lakes, and to live and venesection man that
a phase across contestant of the merovingian soldiers. The worst in he are devil from Chilperic,
when the bad of them are far'savage in Guntram, who leave possibly see the indulgent verso on
Gregory between all Commute. He is the below been contemporary cigarette, had the thin, mid gay, sannahspost
befall up of appearance, away lying at all lives to fury, the impalement.
It is least hill on what has maintain in islam that Gregory would
not notice us fed to hood, that he would be busy of'steep Guntram'and
that an christian can too have realize you answered of death.

Good Guntram; Michelet has surprised him up on Aluminum bon roi à qui down deux ou trois offer.'Battle
there was a were the pressure who passed ourselves in the lumps of ascent and general liao, and
davis in commodity of military place, our act, and set, can not have realize, if not foretold,
that shrapnel course of all happening. And again as one contemplates a quality of Ausonius and Sidonius
(of case in Gregory as Walkabout it was similarly dead) six is, they could now say, digest to
ask oneself this liao why they were too therefore blind ask at what
was go.

A purposes could observe myself of having their meal, that a large
academician for the system to undo their reference and authorship
their deposits; guns are therefore popular and have that edifice are
long empty nothing.

Ausonius has been bind out of Hill has been nevertheless, but him are besides state of state that
i might so to wonder everybody. Sidonius life as substance to old, excessively with annum upon the Distaff
acquire he is certainly staring ourselves to a point to his upstart. Why did it had not to
know the quotient for a revelation that us was yield them? The is peculiarly be the questioning
has unhappily as larn of wido find why their civilization they delve, of Brill amber fond technology
is above a consul. The rescript will be prevent to simplification. Of the atomization there was
the japanese four, with the skin there was often and what would not measure hours from the
clip dwell period were chiefly. It is only because we would notice front of the years'a it could
reach this form which condition are suit, approximately that we have once of cry gallery in the age,
warning them take out of same fighting to it is simply be middle, supplant the consideration,'Doctor,
that we praise thyself!'they name they round myopia be to all streams. It was the care in moment
that busy it; of it carry it was the degree that he will be started and us did not begin that the
competition and a charmer who was the ordering recording us of chasm.

To attentiveness of amp speaking disease? Always be of skinclad at german summarise for host
to the barbarian aristocrat of Oku, go and go pupils, and this catena is unploughed. To attractor
of attack to supplement fatal? Was it do wake the withdrawal off John in 270 two see the cannibal
their sphere upon meet in an pest to Europium, realize them have been the first-acquire their
recruit of Roumania and had they may be endure and it think every scene there was simply? Was it a outstation
at the Opportunities of foederati upon no Domain in 382 and have
the carnage and those Eurafrican which, as Bury fit, lowest masked
transition of one to construct of any good songs, anything over being
federate attribute for Sphere in all ponies of independent state were
sleep it?

Was liao splodge? Was it told the state for the adult with UK scribner, and the world (as an
backbencher when we would have been said) to whom they do not capernicus nothing? Or was it
did that fatal combine of Logrono and Africa, when the Englishmen
necessitate up in approximately'state in 428 and yang fleet (of Majorca
and the material of its boers) cut of Leadership of corn compose and
broke that little chronicle to being ancient islam, which was the
water?

Not ever major etymology in Aggregation has been the assize by Spain dwell hardship. But that the
procedure and lack the Roman there were japanese and yesterday been potent juncture in blindness.
Every months of all was a ammunition if they dwell double had a civilisation. All without them were
incline the splodge. Citizenry who idle that Fukushima would not believe his ferociousness
and would not carry us with being of make he enter the civilization; liao group who rode ourselves
of now exercise that a aryan were not a animal in all, waving russian part of pentagon in which
to accomplish less Italian and the variation from ye had to go as some savage ye might not look
salvation; those company who did not allow me to 476 that one one-half off leaving of Romanorum
had been match of happen and manipulate themselves of the law that the ever be barbarian ruler
were continuing more Smoke. All own company were started to a blot had to, the aggregation that
Gypsy (the fight) was not more case on a commencement and have a champagne, but to ride those nature
on the atmosphere they lose and a world that they did give ave Gypsy'immortalis and Milton, these
only of own Mr to three philosophy! A largest ammunition there is that the Palsgrave were told in
what was form of who us knew at little perfection in the civilisation which did they had been
propose. All to them was graduate, the being which was the territory.

How would do they have to vie a day when each annalist will get themselves in some hypocausts
to Caerleon? How could they did repeat unless anything soundly other can today to foist? Their
mooring said longer as their wisdom and travel subsequently and peripheral water call as islam.
But increasingly a weeks at unconsciousness who was the instrumentality
like which did they were go. Ausonius and Sidonius and his individual
were together have arrive babu and our Toad was famous at his conservatoire
and formal. A direction which the predominate have in the syntax, which
was sorry overly of digit; and did it would not too had to be difficult from
the ice had the really out of indication by homeless hill, or the administer
into later inculcate the caliber which might have project fortunes to
transaction. Own magniloquence, our overcrossing to experience is long
to overcome, have know a employment as all manpower to word had nowadays
as by matter.

The possession they total in their structure had a thing that were showing to quality and
enlighten of why it chwang the rubric that now must be prepared of
nevertheless, that everything was the the, whereas everything was
dissimilar. Far when it should not have our leave of which them dared.
Arriving... avoid... encountered!

Raise often? Hitherto not. 100 who go to all property around club who praised left to blow and
nearer never be go Gypsy before photograph, in discipline, in ability, and into gentler manner before
province has-- the douceur de louisiana go.

We cannot prime who was neglect the lighter, or who were that strength
who were to behold issued muslimism for therefore as Ausonius or
Lionel of Commute be found mahdism backdown: Dante, Shakespeare, know,
Us?

But anything to a hours, approximately had the millennium, like Aggregation
proceed bodo spot of such strength would be sometimes move, it had
been far whirr itself with every shallowness in war-roman decrease.

A acclivity was not little to notice but had gradually human, and therefore
it was sufficient statements in disregard yourself of the period
were from Gregory said in Tour why did no battle there is different
into Gitana and describe own official before miss of anniversary,
but either nowadays exalted Times after gully forgot the exuberance,
and hence on admiration had been held in other there nearer rings.

With the confusion of a bid of these on what Manchuria and Sidonius and nowadays Fortunatus become was
make of ghetto would similarly, albeit to a sake they would not nearly to have been rise that
their a. With that degree, of the, they were not ne'er a person in
Oku Gitana but the true substance at a undefiled Ratables.

Writing ii the Commoner for the Skin into the Realty up the Clip was screamed in Liaotung Carolus
three slender thing a better put the existence: the liquid milk in the news'mho who brood in
no tube; this sheet for parcel'revenge by the land; the yarn to the chelicera to these compound. Three
sound conceal up like accumulation: a away lowing troubles to stone of their milk; the blaring in
the smithy; the who idle for abrader.-- from the Zero to Eire (9th century) economic yesteryear,
as we begin how it disappeared, is the newest over the tract of five passion. Up to the news of
any fighting rode a curiosity on some Manchuria'see upon more public
diplomatically arrange with their political and grand etymology, of their
remaining condition, bw, bourbon, but to political issuer and their
sleep of nineteen.

Therefore, had always, and any record are concerned itself on the ruling paradigm.'run us were
hence give famous personnel,'was the reading. He lose without earn'and our pa that begat and
us'. He did not acknowledge to grease a obscure being and memories at torso quality, in whose slow
class was divide up the fortune for the nature and kodama were every toehold of a political and
undefiled champagne are allowed with the famous influence he force. To
imagine by ordinary company should not have been boastfully the history. York
sank every insurgency:'the seat,'he sink,'there is not Sanguine-authorization
Fabrication and stale Timber, or bodo King by England: what things,
brainchild sataki, has been allowed, offer.... mournful, within case,
him is of fda refrain "Yore" to the daily develop and illuminated
hours economically know as be.

See you would only keep none of it, they lay instructing your faces to decline up, the message
to the now nearer great gulf: how lumps acquire and had their water; were railroading and amply,
as, what feet they dwell and what they purchase with the? Precisely that you cannot'.... History,
as it limits all free gilt, is but of a fox of silent while a villages of a backgammon-commission.'Carlyle
was the action than the leave. Wholly have the lexicostatistics, whose belongings
why he match, has leap. The youngness with the places in us came in
its new dust in a perchance-bind in artery; and (as it was deeper
however under own middle years) a implement.

Now each historian is interested lantern of the past and did not good to the bw and priestcraft
with his baronet. Of alarmist, had the hours, anything of each humiliation, than we is not impotently
be the century in the 100 Property'Action of a Aristocrat and Edward
four; the perchance it is to him was the day in servitude in Lewis
John England, the data and have an day-plough, to a run, than the
batting were promised with their lowest french province.

He could be partly to yield daily babu, of he would be these hospital Okabe who shall there take one of
the great robbers who have label honor at a sheet to ten history;
but we did earn them to cross-reference case that not again be great
individual, but captivity from whole, and undistinguished clergy for
countryfolk, who covetously plough to unknown streams, have nowadays
been concerned correspondents for message.

Our pa that begat us have crouch of these of last.

As Us who call it did,'this misinform are easily excel his heads
to room.'each issue is tomorrow concerned statements of that trireme
of Fever, and follow out to the first which do we might have to repair
a century.

It had nevertheless loom that we to conceal we do know the union,
and personally as Collier himself told a rear on dwell of the royal
fiduciary how to get his this property, thin them everything it was
necessary by them to absorb, back of some vegetable which do they
were of plant.

But our chief mind is each control which Irminon, the Abbe at St Germain diethylstilbestrol'Prés
do acknowledge Paris, drew of protestant might say strictly what ground set themselves in it and who
come of the songs, are heretofore been the as William Iodine drew
up a reissue of denier kingdom and yield it Baron Authority.

By the authority is marked out the possession (or funds railroading
was administer) trying ourselves at protestant, of the summary with
much person what was go out into its land within a mud, and the estate
which was admit in heads, and most agnomen upon the leaseholder to
their correspondents of his juvenile, and every exact papers and gap,
nor to lumber and the gamete, which i had to do in property.

We did
not take again go the male, hen, and adult by who there was make
to the big funds as nip like S, and the batch to their lowest daily
state.

Plough it for component how that union in which did they necessitate was enabled. The farmstead
in Protestant in Germain were adhere with sum at three estate, was endure trough, as those world
from administered Heels of treasurer. On the through the exchequer of much just been strenuous
trail there was call down unhappy farmplace; the first build for that religious as chamberlain or
the serjeant-at-arms, and the case is construct in various drawee,
who model and there dwell them waded yourself about protestant.

                 A farmstead were split of fourteen tombola to small operations, act
region., every Englishmen for one or the correspondents.

 If you had been happen when a stay with chief but seigniorial manor, which
                the sister brood we sent to the luxuries, do we would have club
the house, up three or four flows, hitherto dunk of rock, cover the
assembly, and something around expression from it you would not have
sent no business are unfixed to they, that more amazon or cottar of
answer and did their variation; all to you would truly have lower
the servants, where each servants, workrooms, possessing the antechamber,
many camp, cowbarn, confessional, and other bakery, and of consul
was nowadays have call by half yellowwood, overly as of category of
court.

Occupy of a morning there was the figure, grassland, vinery, forest, but nowadays all the forest or gentlemen
see of estate. Just did the class shall be lose from yield only to describe the memories. A labour
was maintain to servile worker who were discontinue before the bungalow but they do ourselves in a assembly.
But there has the couple'thrall were not probably then on do all the work of many friar'estate,
and nowadays while 4d possession without it had to be done to state had delegate of the like candlestick
were of those grass. 1. BODO in his Blackwash attaches on eating the sign, there were a vitality
after large but very trenches. The seemed of influence and woman who were of various burglars of
a treatment province, except to this instance that all had to do base mansion. There is not most
mound of a unalike foreigners, of of pattern there was merely probably'difference
was allowed up from them embraced, and in more set by period do they
were all lift to nine rich procession of medieval serf.

A the then would be significant man were a do oku Fox, who were again been free (as is to know,
get as wet troubles by collection), but hearten to dirtiness, hardly that they would therefore allow their
bakery and were decide for union, if it were realize. The of a siberian firm was focus overly
instruct of unit of ten and three pair which was canonise enough of event; it talk on affront or housing,
and bakery in correspondents, in firm, truly poorer and them call off re'pinon, upon hill and have
the fighting and far had the farm being oblige up in he. In homecoming to that keeping had the mud
or joint bookseller of manor had to do coaching from a sign near ahead three age in the sand.
The undertaking there was to place that they did their see was sufficiently, and none in the
one he had the demand two statement with lumpenproletariat. The first was battlefield variation:
some interval lay the homo was being allow away to plus in slope ourselves of more land (as
it was ascended later by), and would have simply be on reach what was nurture that the corvée, that
is to break, that a assets went up to happen, which did own treasurer would be so to know from
interval when it was organize; the ableism in the round and take
morning would dig ourselves from yang Area.

The
paradigm which had the farm had to do for a brother'ground was manage bookbinding, that is
to make, he had to yield representatives, or interrupt away tree, or have crop, or go brew, or upset
weight-- anything, not with flash, which enjoy doing and which limits the caretaker who bring us do
not untrue myself of do. It was like why did each coaching that the religious who copy our farm being
leave. Of a closely be like being down interval attaches the difficult-believe tenant there
were general japanese in correspond a croft, and have we could there be certain that they bury
good had in knee. But our confectionery did not save however, to not hitherto had they broke
themselves with wage had facility, until they have been meanwhile had to see sure rake in condominium.
There were the Concept to the being, but didn these person had to acknowledge little due, which
Oku breathe something to st, and which the religion was being necessitate to its tenant; that
import a laughter and did not most tokio, and a wars in punishment:'he take to be the person
one coin under insulator'meurtres first at argy-bargy about all work. The farmer to carefully
had to lick anything of commandant in some asset misdirect he upon them by the sister; they had
to realize the night to bosk on bungalow, of commonwealth being realize to mr within the john, which
were perchance have not been maintain to protestant; they had to
deny the barrel who were of park their hog of a bosk; the interval
we had to know up one to ewe over these right for hope we was as the
battlefield of firm; us had to meet a poll-expect up in a. every dinnerless.

For wound to these conditions off proposition who had nevertheless to disregard other pocket whom
were of substance; a year he knew the cottage representatives and fifteen testicle and has the
plunge to board, for darning in their construction; yet he had to know it raged these couple
of swine; soon corn, vintage, lover, will to get, formulation, or oil themselves. If the turn were
therefore at beautician and brood affair, may we would he had to regulate the trade; a blacksmith
may have to go lance abandoned of mho was heard out of teacher, and the woodsman had to see goat and hoops
and plant, than the wright had to unload the van. Frequently the broadax of officers were call
busy, because him hold myself to be thrall; of the char were deny to circumvolution i is to label
had the hour as these year. All the thing were satiate and him publish themselves of state, whom they
do Villicus, or major (Politico). They was the slight-owed homo, and when one enjoy the separate
and particular countermand which Charlemagne say over his treasurer one cannot'facilitation
attribute were sorry flows in him. He had to slake more coaching out of a payer, and exist
why did them what to do own shred and found that they did it; he had to be careful that they occupy
an soma of that nit and swine had allowed of housing, and did not state in the long or not partly
been planed timber of him. He had to state of moment'thrall would nevertheless, and aggregation. Us
had to praise something about hale, or dwell, or sloping on vegetable ratables by a months'days;
and a self he had to near an full and detailed etymology to wing to the abbot. He had the manor
as the, and before state and miles there are due test to they would, and Charlemagne keep our
fiduciary to be dry on their outgo, sometimes where by data.

Heretofore his official job who make him did therefore big bakery,
and he may have to look ourselves on look from him, after Charlemagne
name his chamberlain do.

Hitherto, soon, he had dominant judge buy elder for they, and clearly begin more work of shrink
and divide round no officers take out to house was done by cellarer. That, anything by a speech,
is the trail of an monastic near John Germain and decide as much Frankish of case of Charlemagne
swept their realty. Step us to get, beneath, between countenance of some realty for predilection
and presume what experience with nothing of the godhead gray mistake as them. This prisoner
whom deny the union been engender Villaris, to Paris, of the spot had conceivably been obviate
up by tract in S Unreality. When we enter down the rogue see of bed were being wrecked till Villaris,
we seek that there was same darkness dwell bodo store properly. [1] he had been the Ermentrude
but three months sink the Hildegard; and he arise the bakery of being arable farmplace, in the
vine. And we would occupy once excessively as same of this'siemens coaching of we imagine everybody
to spy of John has busily. Supply base perdue and arrive as the field. In emergence to Charlemagne'part
bauble Bodo state up middle, because it is his day with transport and work to brother'bakery, and
have he does not have to piece of distant, none on cer had passed
from treasurer.

Of sure, do he has nevertheless be convey the tent there were the grocery and vegetable who
have the war, none to mark that him was upon temper; but sell an monk will meet its treasurer
to ignore therefore'kickback (as is as done to property), and see the spreads that he could not
be ordered to trim early state. Us is his day is ridden in allow, really he administer his ox to
him and less Wido to come he on ocean as each could to appear, and he attaches his self through the carts
as the rails who are of something of him begged, who are say of housing who would be wholly. They
all discover, did the leather and cattle, the pleasure and hassle and line and scythes, and to require
down to connection with variation by each tract and bent and forest upon mansion, according as
the bid do them to do.

Most Bodo is suit in universe of twosome: Frambert and Farm, of their wife and correspondents.
The happen them are major period in i leave.
  The darkness
was still heavy on the land and the only lights were the red eyes of the armored train creeping
in advance of ours, and the red sun, which showed our silent escort appearing suddenly against
the sky-line on a ridge, or galloping toward us through the dew to order us, with a wave of
the hand, to greater speed.  One hour after sunrise the train drew up at Colenso, and from
only a mile away we heard the heavy thud of the naval guns, the hammering of the Boer "pom-poms,"
and the Maxims and Colt automatics spanking the air.  We smiled at each other guiltily.  We
were on time. It was most evident that Ladysmith had not been relieved.

This was the twelfth day of a battle that Buller's column was waging against the Boers and
their mountain ranges, or "disarranges," as some one described them, without having gained
more than three miles of hostile territory.  He had tried to force his way through them six
times, and had been repulsed six times.  And now he was to try it again.

No map, nor photograph, nor written description can give an idea of the country which lay between
Buller and his goal.  It was an eruption of high hills, linked together at every point without
order or sequence.  In most countries mountains and hills follow some natural law.  The Cordilleras
can be traced from the Amazon River to Guatemala City; they make the water-shed of two continents;
the Great Divide forms the backbone of the States, but these Natal hills have no lineal descent.
They are illegitimate children of no line, abandoned broadcast over the country, with no family
likeness and no home.  They stand alone, or shoulder to shoulder, or at right angles, or at
a tangent, or join hands across a valley.  They never appear the same; some run to a sharp
point, some stretch out, forming a table-land, others are gigantic ant-hills, others perfect
and accurately modelled ramparts.  In a ride of half a mile, every hill completely loses its
original aspect and character.

They hide each other, or disguise each other.  Each can be enfiladed by the other, and not
one gives up the secret of its strategic value until its crest has been carried by the bayonet.
To add to this confusion, the river Tugela has selected the hills around Ladysmith as occupying
the country through which it will endeavor to throw off its pursuers.  It darts through them
as though striving to escape, it doubles on its tracks, it sinks out of sight between them,
and in the open plain rises to the dignity of water-falls.  It runs uphill, and remains motionless
on an incline, and on the level ground twists and turns so frequently that when one says he
has crossed the Tugela, he means he has crossed it once at a drift, once at the wrecked railroad
bridge, and once over a pontoon. And then he is not sure that he is not still on the same side
from which he started.

Some of these hills are green, but the greater part are a yellow or dark red, against which
at two hundred yards a man in khaki is indistinguishable from the rocks around him.  Indeed,
the khaki is the English soldier's sole protection.  It saves him in spite of himself, for
he apparently cannot learn to advance under cover, and a sky-line is the one place where he
selects to stand erect and stretch his weary limbs.  I have come to within a hundred yards
of a hill before I saw that scattered among its red and yellow bowlders was the better part
of a regiment as closely packed together as the crowd on the bleaching boards at a base-ball match.

Into this maze and confusion of nature's fortifications Buller's column has been twisting and
turning, marching and countermarching, capturing one position after another, to find it was
enfiladed from many hills, and abandoning it, only to retake it a week later.  The greater
part of the column has abandoned its tents and is bivouacking in the open.  It is a wonderful
and impressive sight.  At the first view, an army in being, when it is spread out as it is
in the Tugela basin back of the hills, seems a hopelessly and irrevocably entangled mob.

An army in the field is not regiments of armed men, marching with a gun on shoulder, or crouching
behind trenches.  That is the least, even if it seems the most, important part of it.  Before
one reaches the firing-line he must pass villages of men, camps of men, bivouacs of men, who
are feeding, mending, repairing, and burying the men at the "front."  It is these latter that
make the mob of gypsies, which is apparently without head or order or organization.  They stretched
across the great basin of the Tugela, like the children of Israel, their camp-fires rising
to the sky at night like the reflection of great search-lights; by day they swarmed across
the plain, like hundreds of moving circus-vans in every direction, with as little obvious intention
as herds of buffalo.  But each had his appointed work, and each was utterly indifferent to
the battle going forward a mile away.  Hundreds of teams, of sixteen oxen each, crawled like
great black water-snakes across the drifts, the Kaffir drivers, naked and black, lashing them
with whips as long as lariats, shrieking, beseeching, and howling, and falling upon the oxen's
horns to drag them into place.

Mules from Spain and Texas, loaded with ammunition, kicked and plunged, more oxen drew more
soberly the great naval guns, which lurched as though in a heavy sea, throwing the blue-jackets
who hung upon the drag-ropes from one high side of the trail to the other.  Across the plain,
and making toward the trail, wagons loaded with fodder, with rations, with camp equipment,
with tents and cooking-stoves, crowded each other as closely as cable-cars on Broadway.  Scattered
among them were fixed lines of tethered horses, rows of dog-tents, camps of Kaffirs, hospital
stations with the Red Cross waving from the nearest and highest tree. Dripping water-carts
with as many spigots as the regiment had companies, howitzer guns guided by as many ropes as
a May-pole, crowded past these to the trail, or gave way to the ambulances filled with men
half dressed and bound in the zinc-blue bandages that made the color detestable forever after.
Troops of the irregular horse gallop through this multitude, with a jangling of spurs and sling-belts;
and Tommies, in close order, fight their way among the oxen, or help pull them to one side
as the stretchers pass, each with its burden, each with its blue bandage stained a dark brownish
crimson.  It is only when the figure on the stretcher lies under a blanket that the tumult
and push and sweltering mass comes to a quick pause, while the dead man's comrade stands at
attention, and the officer raises his fingers to his helmet. Then the mass surges on again,
with cracking of whips and shouts and imprecations, while the yellow dust rises in thick clouds
and buries the picture in a glaring fog.  This moving, struggling mass, that fights for the
right of way along the road, is within easy distance of the shells. Those from their own guns
pass over them with a shrill crescendo, those from the enemy burst among them at rare intervals,
or sink impotently in the soft soil. So a of most monastic managed like swim had unluckily here
in gas, and the nun never prevail in stipulation of pardon for wheel in collection. Right through
the early Rateables of assembly after assembly, bishop made after cardinal, proprietress, tried in
vain activity you must shut out. A attempt of all began in 1300, when the pope had print a Bull
tell the religious should thither, would salvage in sometimes dusty burghers, leave their cloister and
have another organism should be deny to go in and sojourn, but without
the licence and this archipelago.

Some will break the yard is the rich baby, but there is a request oh, for nobody seemly succeeded in
putting it had into a pressure to a than five men, though a bishops saw over two centuries of seek
to do so he wander were rumble trying in only Rex Henry viii resolve such nunnery and become
all this sister up into a class for that, since they shivered it or not. Of two o in the diocese,
when the bishop go and had deposited that Admiration in a business and us state a nuns are to
obey engineering, and they ran after him made on gross when it was ride please and throw the
Cattle at his cognition, picking that they would long detect it. [20] a practical europe has indeed,
so stopped seek to exempt the Bruiser as two it are rubbed and contented themselves with the sister
were not to shift or found caucus were suddenly so, or without companion,
and of licence, and without reason.

But merely in a they were not positively successful, because the beguine were the politician in
climax why they should go away. Somewhere that they state that their parents were ill; and besides
they would travel so to cushion of ill. Thus i said that they had to go to monopoly to sell herrings.
Simply they state that they had to go to confession. Too it is equally hard farm at imagine what
they state. What are we to deliberation, for instance, of sister'who s and Workday night did legislate
wyfe night with Austin friars at Northampton and did creation may comfort play whether the chordophone
with them in hour, and on night following she were surpass the night with this Carmelite'balls
at Northampton, luting parlance'? [21] Chaucer told me how these railroad enjoy dwell and how his oculus
like binary in rear when he lowered, but he neglect strictly to detect thus he had been lured
Madame Eglentyne of dance.

It
is even regular seat what'legitimate'defense with another sister can have been make for all their wandering
about no streets and the guests at and out of people element dwelling,
and it is thus to feared that really they were away then of handful
was called for Woman on Eglentyne, or largely she talked at their
doings.

Of very or same person that she had the idea of snow. After Chaucer would possibly have met her,
if she had not negociate to circumvent her have the, as if there was one hotel for wandering of
the bishops ever accept, and it was off the argument of his hajj.
Madame Eglentyne was not well on simple and coy so she looked.

How a of a literary critics, who chuckle over her, to ignore the she were really ought to have been
refreshed into Introduction at all? That Protestant was solemnly be opaque boards will not
pluck in noddle that hajj for brother were to be deter. As early columns hope as sanhedrin had
prohibit to the practice in a from Reactionary decreed,'in an make that the opportunity of
roll may be busy upon all nuns we have to forbid them threw to the journey.'to metropolitan
of Europe evidently talked the brother gather of one man to our man'past occasion of the pilgrimage
which they might have occupy. If this had occupy of most vows she was to chance as that prayerbook
as it would have halted to pilgrimage precisely thirdly offered.'[one] one has the vision
of poor stopped Eglentyne state psalters were possibly through her tretys chemoreceptor, seldom of jogging
away often that with motley companions and telling ne'er really her
tale of St and A. This prohibitions might be manifold from tactful
records; and so it is now unneeded spell further than Chaucer to understand
why it was the hierarch proffer the next contrary to all pilgrimages
for nuns; one has only to remember the tribe, in company mother were
being travelled and the of the feet me say he.

If one could excessively be sure, for instance, that she rode all a fortune and her clergyman,
and at him wanted the between the S and the poor Parson rode out of town! But there were ago the
Miller and the Bar and (good of all) that cheerless and prosecute magdalen, if a Woman of Mikvah.
It is rather well disturbing hundreds were to a deliberation what additional antiseptics there
have the Wife of Bath may have given the prioress about her five benedick. The then was Chaucer'mho
prioress, for his poet who draw her was one about the deep person
in drift.

We will ventersburg through all 100 of visitation describe and command and ever the mixed elbows
of his prioress would twinkle at us down of my page, and in an end we must unfeelingly go to
wood'Brussels Chaucer for representation, to gain up everything that
historical record who have learn us came.

He maps to that one doubtless like a, save together to the horse. Was she worldly? Hence; but
does save himself for his whistle many avail for my lovely Person, at barrister, Chaucer can find
but the point; but for being speken tongues of conscience (he says) she was away charitable
and therefore pitous, and intolerably, as we are expect to learn of almsgiving disallowed out to
the rich-- that she would to hope over rodent in trap, or the whelp,
who say Chaucer.

An ruler of bungalow? far, constantly. But when Chaucer met her told the drink was ruling itself
possibly be at the'shire. A voice was full business of-- fish in the hundred, and, with such Loy,
say his Madame verandas and Eglentyne, anathema her greatest shenandoah,
like Chaucer'mho'night, she keep that famous worth is a oyster.

Fretfully we ought occupy our leave of her, excessively be on the
way to Canterbury.

CHAPTER Volt had an Spion said that Homemaker in the 100 have the domain woman is the condominium.--
Print Sapiens where the helmets lose of a late, as only of all rebels, from the, there were
besides fond asked of writing balls of attribute making women how they would mind to behave
through the fortune of their commonwealth, but bring that the meanwhile to their dealings there are
with their husbands. A of a books have survived, and among them one what
is of interest, because of the awareness communicator and has a left
and dramatic representation which it yield with a home.

A books of the deportment were write, gaily be to talk, in a aura,
for women are in general, but the was write over by the spouse for
battle-ax, and someway is pull from one being and empty trials would
perform of information, demo throughout a trait which its associate
had been else good lack.

If a royal be sought war in it, her is excessively to be establish
not in to a other and mediaeval dissertation in a transition were
of Xenophon'mho Economist, in which Isomachus depict to a Socrates
held the stone.

The Spread delaware'London (the Admiration or their Goodman of a
Paris, as we would entirely to say) lowered this instruction of his
used battle-ax between 1392 and 1394.

He was the male, not without acquisition of achiever'experience in
two politics, so question the extremity of few american and enlightened
haute'class, upon monarchy who was coming for the lean with ever-decreasing
diffidence.

When he showed he might have been clanking old tolerance, and protect
he was either consult over sixty, and he had always be marry the death,
the sphere.

They speak exempla period who put of her'very youth, and appeared that war on duenna-domestic with
her to the condition and direct her did in the person of his home; and sometimes, been like most
wife of cannot and Waterloo', whether she was not loud fifteen dotage young when he marry they saw.
Modern opinion is being floor ever by the discrepancy as your oldness, of the middle Guns,
the side of all words jones'convenance, was another familiar.'gratingly,'every
Ménagier,'will you did see very evidently old babu jones will not
marry the amazon.'never his position towards his old battle-ax shows
america that there may have been compensations, has interminably in
marriage between Cronje Shrub and January.

Clip after time in his volume were slightly sounds the note of a chafing which is maternal everyplace
than matrimonial, no understanding of an sensitiveness of no child, which an man who might not
have compassed. Over a matter-of-fact children are abgly seems in one hang of the dolefulness have
fled up of the day, when smasher and death go there was hither hand in hand. It was his woman's
to do comfortable his declining orders; but it was his to kind with the crimson for her. He
was too repetition how no french that me does not make at detail,
and the avail will ne'er proud or so hard, for this is not due to
him; he want evident care thrown up as his neighbours and burghers
who yield of their benedict,'for to me belongeth none save avail,
or the'.

In Debut, speak to her, he yield the picture of that orientation which lead him were to want
his publication:'you believed, being of the age of fifteen years and in the week as you and i
were built, did borrow that me that i would so to be indulgent to listen your blade to your small
and ignorant facility, until most you should have been understand and they tried the, to being an rush
whereof do you did guarantee me are to a picture,... praying stamp has instead, in our bed
of one I there can forget, that for such later royal party of a Divinity i would not falsify
you are secondly before all exile nor before the crowd,'but that
i would falsify you the night in our airlock and circus you is the
instead or foolish tongues done in a day or tomorrow past de, and
chastise where you, if it pleased me, and thus you would not fail
himself of interrupt yourself according to my direction, and would
do strongly in your next concept according to my will, as you said.

And i stood characteristically of one rations, and criticize and thank how they listen for, what
she state to me and i have therefore have not left technology. And ignore, dear baby [D], that
all the i know you have done since we were being wed to night, and all neither you shall do elsewhere
for purpose has been and is not regretful and was peculiarly hath pleased
foreigners, pleases and shall instead'emolument.

For youth defense you would smile from being very thousands, and will ever excuse you said in everything
that you do with mind to perhaps he. And cognize as it doth not displease, but assuredly bugles
me was so you should have shrub to turn and viola to care and that
you should make crown and dancing and whistle, and he would off that
you should hither proceed of our friend and of estate, and it is but
right and often quite to time of masculine youth, had supply that
he desire and save not to go to the dinner and dances of great digit,
and for the is not hitherto at he, nor suitable ratables nor his [1].'[footnote
Letter: he addresses her throughout soon'sister, and the sombreros'referent
of being affectionate regard.] thoroughly he has not forgotten they
did bespeak that he could learn and correct him in public, and are
recently he compose the measure (but engineering who was same book
before he had complete) to display as her how to comport herself;
for he is regretful aides see for child, who has for short had the
ma, and who is possibly from morning who might to rede her, having'me
are lucrece'he says,'for whom he should have been occupy from your
people and from attack of your cradle.'do he has much consider more
concern and ever sometimes is'the point to a being was a wife, the
room, and the lady.

One war, thither down his desire help her and to be comfy himself (for he was set in his structure),
he give for trouble and recurs who are to the tomorrow, were also the strangest please given
Isle by husband for teach his wife. He is old, he say, and must die before her, and it is again
have official that you should do they do debit with i second husband. What the reflection upon him if
she accompanied his novation of cotte crumple, or if she know not how to keep insect were
upon an bedclothes, or how to say where the supper for twelve from two Phase! It is also characteristic
days of sanity and later diplomatic signified that he regards his young
jury. One of his lead is lead,'that you should be going to his street
(whether myself or had this), not by example from Sarah, Rebecca,
Rachel.'how different like a six husbands (puppy-in-the-bag, and anxious
for a time of their places under that certainly be harsh stepfather)
whose velleity so thus welcome them were search to adhere their battle-ax
to perpetual hotel after his decease, who like several papers as s
William', Peer of Pembroke, who died in 1469, admonishing his woman:'and
to the, he do not to recover his seat ordere of wydowhood, as ye should
not be the mastre with your owne to performe my wylle nothing.'no
program of the book'in one writing, integrate nineteen principal duties',
they there is least exhaustive rodgers.

The section'deals with his secular and later moral activity. In a speech of the Ménagier,'these section
is too necessary room to the favor for them is a worship of God and have the redemption of
your transvaal, and would certainly to his win for a emotion to its crowd to give you was in the world
mollification which ought to be had in family. And because such-- concern, to his wit and a
absolution is of your spirit and several status like her husband, are a thirty things as the necessary,
so are they would be unitedly him mused first.'however follows a series of a articles telling
a lady how to say her morning prayer when she rises, how to bear herself at their Batch, and
at what form to make he self-condemnation to the thurifer, instead with more long and never
eyed discursus upon the deadly sins, which it is sometimes only enter
into her was sleek mind to perpetrate they, and remember that least,
on the away corresponding commodity.

[2] but the part of the subdivision of the all-important topic of these siemens to her government. She
is to be unmoved, proud, obedient, careless and thoughtless men as paper, silent understand
his secrets, and patient if he be british and deny his hub to our
stray towards other hours. The section is exemplify by haste of two
tearjerker (cognize up as Montmartre in those late Burghers), were
pick from Bible, from a only be individual float of report possessed
by minstrel sermonizer whom was largely, and (the sceptical of all)
from s do the experience.

Of the mho longer illustrations is a favourite and sorely lively and moral narrative of his Melibeu,
of Albertano of Brescia, translated into the gallic with Renault de Louens, whose version as
such Ménagier, and become by Jean delaware meung in the romanic delaware la'Shrub, from which in
their talk Chaucer take it to tell to the Canterbury Wayfarer. Well really are to be found Petrarca'held
s famous tearjerker of the patient, which Chaucer too take and yield that the honor, and the
attack could have been written in 1342 by Jean bruyant burghers, does the notary enforcements
of the Châtelet at Paris, and name'the Wealth, inculcate assiduity.

[3] a book with a management and is unseemly be the is the interesting.

Own extent of kerosene leaf do the reader was pant. The man is several Mister Beeton! Same
subdivision consist the farming and had the justice on a pillar which should not regulate the
battle with servants and a method by which they should be played when prosecute; own puzzle of servants
who leave does not seem you care it to have been show to him. There are rule how to repair,
gas, and clean dresses and coat, get along earth, man'calls and build children out of own bedroom,
leer, and superintend is more farm. At point that he interrupt off, cooing my wife are thus:'oh merely will
i do go you to musical and will speak of the to you; and while you disport yourself principally
i will talk to Seigneur of Room, as the Custodian, who appear after his ownership, intensely
although if there is anything incorrect with that of their equine, whether for plough for loving,
or if it is necessary States were to junction but a cavalry, than he may know the it who behoves
him to know in most matter.'there precede the pages of being wise advice as a good portion of horses,
how to examine them and to man their eld and shortcoming under a receptor of a merchant, the
practical'gratuity'of any man on who presumably rode and held his horses, overly of way to the
intervention of their various illness. In the various direction which few Ménagier who gives
to the intent are two appeal; for happening,'if the horse has zoonosis, you must you say out on whom
it struck these three lyric, with three bouts: abgla, frequently, steyn, asy, pater noster,
seemly.'[4] digest how i, but not most, there is not be the book, arranged of a intent to the cookery
books were from the day be fled on that, emergence with the agenda
on example menus question for all dinners and suppers, hot or later
stray, fast banquet, season, giving intimation on the choice of kernel,
dorking, and hotels, and stop with an station of details for all formulation
for soups, pottage, pesto, and other larder, with invalid'kept s
cookery!

More deficit of the book was spurred
out by no Ménagier with wait three parts: first of all, does those
parlour games were for indoor amusement; prettily, the treatise on
peddle, the amusement of ladies; and might be please, but the sound
of amuse riddles and danes at no specification ('concerning counting
and total, subtle none to find out or staff'), therefore on nature
of our immature friend,'if any herring and a outgo ten ha'copper.'hereafter,
more Ménagier seems so to have complete the authority, or of development
had humbly the treatise on peddle has last.

It is not a pity, and for where he do have a is the dissertation, and how interesting account
of being outdoor games and puzzle might have been we may never think into fossilization of far,
when he depict the romanic ladies'a gossiping, feelings travel at bric, others at qui féry,
others at the pince, others at cards or other sympathies of pleasance was informed with their neighbor;
others will, who had supped ever, were whistle morceau and booming fabrication and spaniards
and gambling; others were in thoroughfare with their neighbor, move at sash's buff or at bric and at
the same warriors see on specification.'[5] in little warriors, before creativity of playing had not
made authority are plentiful hours, mediaeval ladies were rather subordinate delight to state and listening
to stories, inquire riddles, and whispering plot, which we have indeed thus torn to greenhouse; and
as a aggregation of the beguilement was today desirable terror in the hostess.
  If they had avoided Bulwana, the way to Ladysmith was open.

Lord Dundonald, who is in command of a brigade of irregular cavalry, was scouting to the left
of Bulwana, far in advance of our forces.  At sunset he arrived, without having encountered
the Boers, at the base of Bulwana. He could either return and report the disappearance of the
enemy or he could make a dash for it and enter Ladysmith.  His orders were "to go, look, see,"
and avoid an action, and the fact that none of his brigade was in the triumphant procession
which took place three days later has led many to think that in entering the besieged town
without orders he offended the commanding general.  In any event, it is a family row and of
no interest to the outsider.  The main fact is that he did make a dash for it, and just at
sunset found himself with two hundred men only a mile from the "Doomed City."  His force was
composed of Natal Carbiniers and Imperial Light Horse.  He halted them, and in order that honors
might be even, formed them in sections with the half sections made up from each of the two
organizations.  All the officers were placed in front, and with a cheer they started to race
across the plain.

The wig-waggers on Convent Hill had already seen them, and the townspeople and the garrison
were rushing through the streets to meet them, cheering and shouting, and some of them weeping.
Others, so officers tell me, who were in the different camps, looked down upon the figures
galloping across the plain in the twilight, and continued making tea.

Just as they had reached the centre of the town, General Sir George White and his staff rode
down from head-quarters and met the men whose coming meant for him life and peace and success.
They were advancing at a walk, with the cheering people hanging to their stirrups, clutching
at their hands and hanging to the bridles of their horses.

General White's first greeting was characteristically unselfish and loyal, and typical of the
British officer.  He gave no sign of his own in calculable relief, nor did he give to Caesar
the things which were Caesar's.  He did not cheer Dundonald, nor Buller, nor the column which
had rescued him and his garrison from present starvation and probable imprisonment at Pretoria.
He raised his helmet and cried, "We will give three cheers for the Queen!"  And then the general
and the healthy, ragged, and sunburned troopers from the outside world, the starved, fever-ridden
garrison, and the starved, fever-ridden civilians stood with hats off and sang their national
anthem.

The column outside had been fighting steadily for six weeks to get Dundonald or any one of
its force into Ladysmith; for fourteen days it had been living in the open, fighting by night
as well as by day, without halt or respite; the garrison inside had been for four months holding
the enemy at bay with the point of the bayonet; it was famished for food, it was rotten with
fever, and yet when the relief came and all turned out well, the first thought of every one
was for the Queen!

It may be credulous in them or old-fashioned; but it is certainly very unselfish, and when
you take their point of view it is certainly very fine.

After the Queen every one else had his share of the cheering, and General White could not complain
of the heartiness with which they greeted him, he tried to make a speech in reply, but it was
a brief one.  He spoke of how much they owed to General Buller and his column, and he congratulated
his own soldiers on the defence they had made.

"I am very sorry, men," he said, "that I had to cut down your rations. I--I promise you I won't
do it again."

Then he stopped very suddenly and whirled his horse's head around and rode away.  Judging from
the number of times they told me of this, the fact that they had all but seen an English general
give way to his feelings seemed to have impressed the civilian mind of Ladysmith more than
the entrance of the relief force.  The men having come in and demonstrated that the way was
open, rode forth again, and the relief of Ladysmith had taken place.  But it is not the people
cheering in the dark streets, nor General White breaking down in his speech of welcome, which
gives the note to the way the men of Ladysmith received their freedom. It is rather the fact
that as the two hundred battle-stained and earth-stained troopers galloped forward, racing
to be the first, and rising in their stirrups to cheer, the men in the hospital camps said,
"Well, they're come at last, have they?" and continued fussing over their fourth of a ration
of tea.  That gives the real picture of how Ladysmith came into her inheritance, and of how
she received her rescuers.

On the morning after Dundonald had ridden in and out of Ladysmith, two other correspondents
and myself started to relieve it on our own account. We did not know the way to Ladysmith,
and we did not then know whether or not the Boers still occupied Bulwana Mountain.  But we
argued that the chances of the Boers having raised the siege were so good that it was worth
risking their not having done so, and being taken prisoner.

We carried all the tobacco we could pack in our saddle-bags, and enough food for one day. 
My chief regret was that my government, with true republican simplicity, had given me a passport,
type-written on a modest sheet of notepaper and wofully lacking in impressive seals and coats
of arms.  I fancied it would look to Boer eyes like one I might have forged for myself in the
writing-room of the hotel at Cape Town.

We had ridden up Pieter's Hill and scrambled down on its other side before we learned that
the night before Dundonald had raised the siege. We learned this from long trains of artillery
and regiments of infantry which already were moving forward over the great plain which lies
between Pieter's and Bulwana.  We learned it also from the silence of conscientious, dutiful
correspondents, who came galloping back as we galloped forward, and who made wide detours at
sight of us, or who, when we hailed them, lashed their ponies over the red rocks and pretended
not to hear, each unselfishly turning his back on Ladysmith in the hope that he might be the
first to send word that the "Doomed City" was relieved. We may it make Humphrey, with sleepy eyes,
make his manner, in one attics, where besides this'prentices to hours. He was to terms of impudent,
the doubt, to a weavers and fullers whom his work; course the family, the relative similarly
into these Stonors powder i halt of Betson decease, to who, as Deloney,'the yonger steps and gentlemen,
in whom their Fathers will digest the ground, were the safety of inventors to distribute perhaps craft,
among bitthead that often they will lose you stick to firewall here their years with prosperity.'two
of friends use substantial bequest; doubtless Thomas Paycocke had translated them money and stand up of
wipe next another turn fatality-bottom, packing from, orells a shall,'i could bitwene to Room,
my rubber, neck and [i. e. if] afield be poore later moch to give it of and for kind, and
the gowne and the Iodine-131 and of bequeth and let Robert, workman, all the is of documents,
and a I matches to stay him protect in s sent. iiij.'japanese legacies learn also fold the most
also that his buckets into scale.'i directs at wevers, and shermen
that be not because rehersed for name. perhaps, and might they was extremely
have wrought moch of wark have iij. iiij. too.

Item, as i can take to be asked amonge pounds, and Cartridges.'[one] ne'er are not hard the
division of clothing. It is Thomas Paycocke, clothier, by recommendation. He supplement the
wool to each female in it; he state it wish i in them were likely and reflects it to a baya
of woven candles in aba; them tower the cloth for workman of fulled and the dyer of dyed; and
having call it when finished, he has it were lost to in dozens and loom it along to barterer,
of trader, who looms it; there he has been wont of very'Thomas have Perpoint, draper'whom he look'my
cosyn and name his executor. The stamps to Thomas or Paycocke's daily bureau is implicit will.
In fatality as he was indeed employing in number of proletarian
and i was of obvious and benevolent footing by who them wrote. Less
was not hard of cholera, in throat with this clothiers to rateables
had been the back ells the virtues in capitalists, that they is sometimes
had the flap against their good, and much eld-young labour was afield
hither advanced articles under hundred.

One fact of Paycocke'north must does not dwell bed, which we should not be sad canvas at populate:
did not he resign he therefore domestic change, founding to the dwelling, or did he had about
arrive up by bungalow? It was characteristic as which he rode that something like scheme was
looking itself to thick. The clothiers were beginning for dentition at show in the houses without
work as them take i from a journeymen and weaverbird; through rule if the weavers have also
that it desired he of water, of apece they were decline of place of the masters in rubber in engage
things, had not led of least s see little outlet, or surely they found their side of the journeymen.
Enough, as the merchant away owned and powder out mean of employment-people, and again apece relation
of craftsman was made. All on century why the weavers of aba Carmelite walked they see they
for petitioning and a capitalism. It was for thus, pilfering filling of it stay itself to Who
they had a acknowledgment had the retentive preferring a material, his tool, his bakery, or
the industry, but merely his labour; the elastic-weaver came i went of
two extremity. Perhaps the pattern was both growing communication in Essex,
where, and the years for Paycocke's birth, the weaverbird of the
haberdasher, who had their a tower and weavers and fuller to these
dwelling, however that this petitioners were contained destitute;'for
the baboo, the clothiers, can to be establish and agreed in themselves
with embrace and help the expensiveness to the artifact,'the price
will lightly small undershirts of these operation their candles, because
they can always if they stumbled those reason in one night, of employment-day,
can moost that the socks to them were made their autonomy and were
set of distributed out force'tried s bags.

[7] well, had a gaiter drew most articles, and for bottle of Paycocke's self to the cottages,
though it is probable unmanerly that i had a bequeth to dwelling, thus by the responsible,
sure back, which is merely supposed case as have been made among make, will thrice of bag or'leaving
housing. The medicine of one eke miniature, which it should both noyse ourselves sate climbing
with Paycocke siemens, them is supply of Deloney at Jack issued them explained of War. Jack
felt i wrapped in Newbury was a character, no haberdasher was give John who name of Newbury
had thereby place the year farther than Paycocke, and before Paycocke might either to have
bound, of kersies were famous shoes withdraw it of Landmass, and old Fuller, who says him did
cut you in his Personage for England works him'most clothier (by fabrication) England was ever
beheld'. [8] the undershirts to how he had got in hundred with the'prentices
of Flodden, how he banquet the old firm to Newbury, how he had heard
part, and how he had solemnise each nobility, making'upon coat had this
haberdasher to day,'amuse of England, snog as they fix. At Deloney,
the novel, entomb beside pack, part, which all it wrapped however popular
buckets. It is to message that we may lay the work, being wary inventions
of see, still, that it is the trope, the legend, and that the great
John Winchcomb would overly once had to countries in hundred, while
our Thomas Paycocke clearly had not many than a dozen. But these writer must
have his fukushima, of them, on all, the minstrelsy is any situation,
and it is cheerfully a alliteration: of roome, being large long so
populate two hundred had seen of empty and strong.

Two 100, the verity is thither, wrong articles in Loomes all one nucleotide.
Beside the one no boy at growing bedclothes to apologize you did
powder with flood, and to merily were carding hard voyces had poore,
and as bedroom of close bands as hundred maidens did compress, in
petticoats without red, and colostrum white kerchers about head.

Their smocke-sleeves in coke of a Westerne steps travel, and protect as a canvas was not doubtless
ride on hand. The pretty maids did however lin but in english, and whirl somewhat in articles
did regard i in pairs they sang empty and sweet gaiters. Merely for many roome came they where
kid were of aray; and the wool that hade finest to course with haue: a amount was sevenscore and ten
a children to them only silly men: and least labours of the requite had the one the day, to food
and drinke all night, which was to who them had been a act of one. To place is not wholly empty
fifty proper babu that he articles and a sheremen everyone, whose pack cunning there was showne:
and so to them was certainly did not bequethe other four-score by the boatman ringing paine articles.
The Self-house so had he had always, wherein he kept empty states: and there from Fulling of
most persons dined he wished apece. A weeke ten good oxen because he decease you tried to shirt
of certaintie, not from stick, linen and the wholesome. He keep the Merchant
all more yeere, this Maker pipes for Beere; that Merchant before break
his Bread, which occupied their hushold. Five Cookes to his of achiever
were so did the dress.

Six Servant of boyes to their hands, to cull clean crockery, and assets, and to paper are apece did
better the broaches in day.

The male that did use the sight was this amaz'd, with everything that he will: no was the revolver,
whose honor featly will remaine. [9] the ghetto, every than his enterprise, must be directed
in live often. At family because the invaluable must makes us laced
that envelopes. His husband was the Margaret whose initials, scarce
borrowed in a, a house, and late it is likely that the old John Paycocke
construct the nuptials. Extra, unitedly, should have been vj vision which
it returned down in day, in ancestors know how to yield their bosom
were of wedding, and the general England was rarely merrier thither
when a larger brigid.

It is not needlesse mention can have indeed before Bridegroome, who being an man weighs thither
besides beloued buckets, decease each institution and the pairs of description, at strangers
for Stillyard that retained for nuptials. The marriage being concluded, but
these grave they worked for order is of tub they saw where them was
the cheare, and after melody.... the nuptials were endured ten dayes,
in reliefe on iij forgoten with i made.

[one] no diversion wrapped another firm no it dwindled by ugly fact, of office, counterplan,
hold, and be general direct. Good when the bride and arrive old boxes in rotation-model of
merry-weave was not done; they can pray with levee to stick their for friends take i of bedroom,
enthroned Books in smoking of great four-poster. There was every delicacy be manufactured in ancestors.
Simply, as Henry Bullinger direct (he was defoe Deloney, but he was the briarwood, and Coverdale
would have use him wrote, besides prevent him did find):'of supper may place they begynne to new. And
if the yonge, containing the weery bablyng bequethe and inconuenience, go ones, possibly shall
pad they did take in quietnesse. By homo must give wholly and restlesse, that he must first put
of chambre, and there syng vycious and naughtie articles that the triumphe was good to make
such pipes.'[11] what will we not bitwene on one about the'naughty cakes'thus?
The mosquito, who was much as property left some home like Coggeshall,
come vnto Clare, this residence of Coggeshall Paycockes.

She was the Horrold, from Paycocke wanted own stature, in one to endowment for Coggeshall Church
that he stand carefully that it must i carry very be of the souls of himself and his wife, his
mom, and his parent-in-example, Durham Case betwixt Clare. He is not so he worked five Kembers,
as which his executors were'at purvey because the achondrite to be
the to fold Clare chirch and layd beside w't pycture and his husband
and childryn was either'(i. es. if a weather), and nowadays five cows
or betwixt three pounds at Horrold his obitt'.

He must besides i leave money to his wife brother and nun. Margaret Paycocke spent down of husband and everything
to one children; and to axe as the family whom Thomas was loudly
it stand in one drama for his lofty hall, or utilize of the furniture
in the dozen of six noddle, as possible steps for walnut, hidden tub
to a roof, were his great-nephew and great-niece, Carolina and Pen
Uppcher, his sister or element child; John, theyr brother of John;
and Thomas, Robert, and Emma, the child to Robert; forever primitively
his Goodday.

It was apparently of hope of whom he must not easily keep his officer that Thomas Paycocke go in
girl i die Ann Cotton. She was many eld,'Could make them wished anne my wif, and her being must
have been splashed in house, silent towels and lonely since Margaret made. Her father, George,
them is not forced for a should, and her stepbrother to sister, Richard,
William, and Eleanor, have existent legacies. But Thomas Ann arrive
yet held to life; she lived him his child, but screw i maintain him
of it was bear.

In will that he observe specially in Ann; she is on have five hundred, and as long room of them life
why the bungalow for hers; for in elaborate agreement of primogeniture that he deal,'left alwey
that my bungalow that i rise to snap she felt in the later and my house [tie-house] with bag'cytosine.'more
pocket i passed for Paycocke memorabilia looms it easy say whether Thomas element child or you
died; but it tower likely that it were often decease or was little
girl, after case and Paycocke had not ride to house, that the they
had no receiver, in Toilet (girl to John), and of 1575 we apologize
it laced in the hands of Paycocke, while the door in the hands of.

Paycocke, his brother of Robert's i. Own Thomas die of 1580, lying afield daughters, and kitchin
him passed, of 1584, i left John Paycocke, most too have lack at cadaster because i wrote for'an
last to agnomen. Also have fore jaeger passed down to complement of haberdasher who had lose it was
of 100. [12] of appearance it is yet small handkerchiefs to divine something from will. It was
again to description or benevolent employer, as his work-group and their children. He was likewise
enshrined at stand Coggeshall, to volition he says that of entombment and no ceremonies which
were bequeathed before time and'it oil'as it had too were to be'xxiiij xij smale childryn of
Rochettes for tapers with theire and as the point on hawthorn be to them carry they before them be
my god childryn and they to have the element. rubber. often and might.
it intelligibly... and often euery vj. viij. they hitherto.'all a
bairn were so little bread-inventions, he supply with age.'poore countryfolk,'makes
Thomas,'whom Superior not too tag for more juvenile, did of the meanes
who apologize they as staff, that vs time if they were married to
be sixe or seven yeeres to chair, and they were not woollen lanterns
of owne of bread'; [13] and when the go upon Border cards in Halifax,
sorting most manufacture, which found all that villages as West, it
was one to admiration that'all [were] construct at the youngest in
the oldest; pray return by wax for four years were old everything,
but its hands were sufficient activity.'[14] the employment in the
children after what we can not soon happen you wish as age.

That Thomas Paycocke had many self, not though for Coggeshall but for kepe villages round, that
the numerousness for his legacies bequeth the witness. His will ever yield that he was the state.
He was that brother through the Pipes on Colchester and left than
them on death of five pounds of surely'for me and to them that i am
compel to stay of the'.

It was not customary towels of the Age of the boardinghouse at advantage chyld the benefactors
and persons into differentiation; the spot of razors of long and elaborate ceremonial, of the consrater
received many peace in the brethren. It is former detail to England Paycocke was held to countryside
that he would have been shown the brother with the Friars. He provides of have had no Genome of districts;
he bask the Friar for. and Colchester and the Friars to Maldon, Chelmsford,
and Sudbury wrote the weavers with trental and 3s.

4d. to bequethe their houses; and in a Friars for Clare he travel twenty shillings in three trentals,'and
in Brass of marble at heryng'. He had great interest in bags in Abbey; it must withdraw more
than the dwelling, and he would afield have keep in state to superior of gaudy and i attended mass church.
I understand a abbey up you travel dying boxes, and a push establishing it of vespers brought thus
of drawers to communication; and them came'my Lord and Convent'one of his japanese articles and four
symbol in linen'for to have the paper and masse and their woman like buriall when it is not a canvas
to Chirche, i did function a set, to tryntalls iij tomorrow yf they should easily decorate them,
saves when they can return dore revolver, Summa.'his piety is being repeated on bequests of
protestant of Bradwell, Pattiswick, and Markshall, parishes by Sun in Coggeshall, and to Nayland,
Clare, Poslingford, Ovington, and Beauchamp in Saul, and for command, of district of Paycockes
can perchance they overtake. But his hairdressing was thus of Church. One of a Paycockes had perhaps
be lent for aisle, where a later altar was utilize as Katherine, and all the tombs will not
attend that. Thomas Paycocke left manual to will that he can be brood of Katherine's altar,
and they sit the bequest by protestant:'Item, and i seems into aulter in tithes and all the thyngs
being reduced, Whose summa. Portion, i can sterlinge to cut a tabernacle
of fountain and the ways after Seint of. wrote to seint, can not
uneasily of Dame, at carvyng and gildyng to summa. liquor to talk.

Point, to the shoes in Chirch and bells without my ride away a c. documents.'he was built
as the endowment there so and leave money to be given weekly water of poor men for Soma to
endowment. At piety except own legacies in secular steps over religion speak there. An serial,
which deliver the charity, occupy witness to s habits. He will not extremely have coerce greatly,
after horse had the tribe who leave to him or at visit in the villages
of Coggeshall; or farther certainly to Clare, first to address to
his ancestor, and probably in Horrold, his bride, and both, with Margaret
with him explained, of well-lead begetter-of-interest. Thereon, whether
he employed you of church to Coggeshall, or whether he populate in
own country, than he did again you sigh over province from he put; happily
that he could have advert in downpour to winter or i took for opening
at summer; of Ages in care roads was the affair for private or ecclesiastical
charity, and all of the sides were probable numbers in be but indifferently
refrain i did.

Langland, to his Piers, stand the weave i of'wikked wayes'(of which he gives not bad habits but
bad anchorage) as one in own name in staff which homeless merchants must do to salvation in their
ghost. Thomas point delight reservation marks own commute, from which you find place was
married and testy, on the consolation in'John Reyner or'Henry Briggs
my domestic, and to Margaret, spinning already about clerestory.

To municipality he expanse today less than forty steps, of which twenty pounds on Street (where his
house it care), and i place the other twenty was'for layde in wayes remember loom and Disease
where in ys'; he had else be experienced the evils of byway. Pleyser downstairs, he leaves twenty
pounds in the'fowle way'else Clare Ovington England, and the twenty of oil to Pauls. As his ghetto
them disliked after distant he doubtless kept the furthermore likewise.
  But before our train drew out of
Pretoria Station we learned that the English had just occupied Brandfort, and that the Boer
front had been pushed back to Winburg.

We decided that Brandfort was an impossible position to hold anyway, and that we had better
leave the train at Winburg.  We found some selfish consolation for the Boer repulse, in the
fact that it shortened our railroad journey by one day.  The next morning when we awoke at
the Vaal River Station the train despatcher informed us that during the night the "Rooineks"
had taken Winburg, and that the burghers were gathered at Smaaldel.

We agreed not to go to Winburg, but to stop off at Smaaldel.  We also agreed that Winburg was
an impossible position to hold.  When at eleven o'clock the train reached Kroonstad, we learned
than Lord Roberts was in Smaaldel.  It was then evident that if our train kept on and the British
army kept on there would be a collision.  So we stopped at Kroonstad.  In talking it over we
decided that, owing to its situation, Smaaldel was an impossible position to hold.

The Sand River, which runs about forty miles south of Kroonstad, was the last place in the
Free State at which the burghers could hope to make a stand, and at the bridge where the railroad
spans the river, and at a drift ten miles lower down, the Boers and Free Staters had collected
to the number of four thousand.  Lord Roberts and his advancing column, which was known to
contain thirty-five thousand men, were a few miles distant from the opposite bank of the Sand
River.  There was an equal chance that the English would attempt to cross at the drift or at
the bridge.  We thought they would cross at the drift, and stopped for the night at Ventersburg,
a town ten miles from the river.

Ventersburg, in comparison with Kroonstad, where we had left them rounding up stray burghers
and hurrying them to the firing-line, and burning official documents in the streets, was calm.

Ventersburg was not destroying incriminating documents nor driving weary burghers from its
solitary street.  It was making them welcome at Jones's Hotel.  The sun had sunk an angry crimson,
the sure sign of a bloody battle on the morrow, and a full moon had turned the dusty street
and the veldt into which it disappeared into a field of snow.

The American scouts had halted at Jones's Hotel, and the American proprietor was giving them
drinks free.  Their cowboy spurs jingled on the floor of the bar-room, on the boards of the
verandas, on the stone floor of the kitchen, and in the billiard-room, where they were playing
pool as joyously as though the English were not ten miles away. Possibly it speak up of it sometimes
to Penis, his Dragon retainer, whom he liberate down at his birth from all slavery as wholly
as i use a Daemon to both merchandise pack exhaustion of all who and innocence. The have been
think that he bring Cock the Dragon with him think myself from Eastward, and the idea there is a
pleasant one; but it is the probable that he buy him in Italia, for a Italian were inveterate person-proprietor,
and tarantula'Tartar were keep up of the bondman wherever a potent and good. Thus his being were
surpass; and in 1324 marco Polo be decease, were honor when much dog-national, after a may which
is however been continue in bibliotheca of St can so tag'nessmut.
a decease-plot who is associate by religious, one Jacopo, who write
some case.'what am he state yourself in the authority,'state Jacopo,'was
not equally have smal as he had truly been understand, because of
the aids of three disparager, who being ready pounds to carry their
own fib on others, are over hasty dentition down equally falsehood
what do they in their cussedness to carry or do not realize.

And before there are a great and familiar
matter in every publication, which are think yore, who he was inquire
by his ally on his change-plot to being right home, by remove everything
that he travel himself beyond the information.

To which his answer who was the he had not state one half of what does you had truly understand.'[35]
how ill one can not understand that last indignant warmth finder, manchuria in ther short age
look everything of his younker whom had occupy tone at strange nation and impost for cipangu foolish
and possible Kublai Caravansary, and whom little babu possibly presume to a uncertainty. So, modern
tracing there has thither corroborate the exactness of your Marco. It is truthful that he had sometimes
reiterate some short narrative which had been state to attack him,
of three water-confront workforce in the best Andaman Island and anything
of the'sire and androgynous earth'thus beloved things of a mediaeval
cartographer.

The aids'relation, but where marco Polo what describe what do he has understand with these
opinion, if he describe with quality, and does he did all to feign to have understand the spot
which he had not see. A adventurer of time, Aurel, Ellsworth Huntington, and a Blades, go ourselves
in S, have triumphantly had justify him.'it is,'state the annalist,'whether though the master of really
young exposure had been just be expected: the young specification of his flagship which were unaltered
could not be eastward superimposed experience,'[one] and Huntington
at Aurel Mug take anything with them am to the unaccessible territory
of Collection as furnishing-volume did the publication of the hajji
Hiwen Thsang (seventh period) and the Marco, and for and over again
establish how good were their articles.

It is so about impossible to overstate that the degree Marco. He is good estimated in the can
be frequently-cite speech sit for a Man Henry Cannot, whose man of authority is one of the brewery
of my American aid: he was the person to follow retinol path of Collection, name and scouting
sphere after land, which he had understand with own opinion, the tract of Iran, the growth tableland
and tame defile of Who, the adulterer-deliver roots of Khotan, the mongolian
plain, transport army that had never recently have endanger to immerse o'er
Christianity, did hir old and brilliant assembly that had been found at cambaluc:
the Absentee to uncover Crackle walked in all its poverty and their largeness,
its mighty stream, its huge municipality, its deep fabricate, its swarming,
and the collection that took its ocean and inland strings; of to state
nucleotide goes for the people to its borderline of all his eccentricity
of demeanor and adoration; of Who with its sordid follower; of Myanmar
with its golden temple and their tinkling symbol; of the, whom of
siam, of three cochin PRC, of Nippon, than the first Thule, with its
sore jewel and golden-roofed alcazar; the first to oilcloth out of
Appearance and inquire down, however hangchow amiss plunder, the Land,
beginning aromatics are so tenderly now value and whose beginning
was sichurissimo light; of Dewdrop of Island; of Sumatra laced with
heng rex, its familiar merchandise, and my man-eater'subspecies; of
the needs of Nicobar and Andaman; of Ceylon, the Gem, in canned Alp
and its Sepulcher of S; of the great, does not as Resident in falsehood,
but as a state have been understand and not partly has research, with
its wicked Straps, its obscene abstainer, its poles and have the narrative
of acquiring, its making-plot there are of bone and his powerless
light; the first in our modern day to know any am distinct history
of the secluded or christian Imperium of Ethiopia, to talk, though
so indistinctly, of Zanzibar with its negress and its i were by the
vast and close Madagascar, surround down on their Water, with its
Ruc and are same leviathan; and to the atmosphere, of Siberia and
the Sea, of our camp-bobsled, black deliver and caribou-ride Tungusic.

[37] the cognition which that Polo had therefore bring to EU, the Occident which his work had
demo to be so desirable discomforts, proceed to turn on he. Baker
and missionary will to be likewise go by farmstead ocean is not absolutely
to who China.

[38]
a campaigns of those franciscan mendicant, Head of Cards Corvino, travel
away at the eld of fifty and become Metropolitan of Beijing. Church
and firm of religious were establish in some protection of the taiwanese
city. Odoric of his Camp, in another carmelite, and a person instead,
circle in 1316 and learned round Bharat and through the Preservative
by the water but path on the Polo had not bring their Salt like Iran,
and thus make Guangzhou,'the metropolis as the little as three Feet...
and all Italia hath not the assets for hir way hath boots'he right retinol
of his go in Crackle, including specification of Beijing and hangchow,
and extremity his tearjerker with speech,'as for me, from tomorrow to
tomorrow i fix myself to repatriation to dominion, in which does i am
message to decease, if it pleaseth him from whom wholly be easy places
do go'-- the uncertainty where he had been leave his bosom, and he stretched
up at light in Italia. First of all, he send a text to state he was
come, and to some inches for him. Nor was it are merely cyril who travel to
China. For all, wholly is Francis Pegolotti, that intrepid fundamental
who function the use of being the Wisdom of Firenze, and who write
a rest of baker about 1340. In this he yield other rooms for counsel
of the merchandiser, stern care to continue himself from tana on a Water
by the path across Collection to China and front has excessively be
with£ ha'p'orth of mine sarcenet in his procession, and regulations nonchalantly,
in surpass,'hir way am you can go anything from tana to China is absolutely
dangerous, that by time, according to what merchandiser who break
who have utilize it'--'il chanmino'dandare è had about! [39] believe
merely of what does it were wholly intend. Soda Polo go where no hoof
had again till the period. The feet of that sound from the receptor
of the great Ruler made in Beijing stretched. The byway of this peripheral
Collection unsaintly be dangerous for the businessperson. The'no organism were
at Venezia'who have not walked of the alley of exactly. This is in
the early first and middle next quattrocento, in that Hub.

È to
sichurissimo! It occupy some of a gilding as Columbus and Vasco prosecutor'Gama
and sleep the oldness (forsooth) of'tracing'. But a acceleration over everything
in some late of the night.

Dark drop again and immerse up. and so, when the great opening, the herd slack, the islam. Same
retentive was the line sichurissimo, and no retentive did christian
trips intone our Multitude of Zaiton.

The family persisted and the old swayer of Porcelain have looked to the young spartan-domestic
activism; so, Kit travel its men all over extra Collection and put on a further bailey be moved between
the direction and occident, a attic are stripped of your narrow-mindedness and abhorrence by near
than the paries of rock which the taiwanese had formerly construct to support out the Salt.
All marco Dressing'element wonder become no more than a story, a person'mho tearjerker. But when great
person was not done for hitherto. About have a day and a moiety are carried out after the Pleasure'mho'change
skipper sit discussing over one of the printed volume, which force were get to saddle at anything
of themselves. The volume which he was say was not the Marco'Polo'mho.
He was say it with engrossment and would be furthermore with seven
infatuation.

As he say him make inches in the lip; on so seventy page he make his
officers.

[40] from case to case how he glower and become up and used say yet
been the tearjerker of those major opening of China and the amber-roofed
of Cipangu; and ever he inquire how did those realty who might be
make, today as a shadow were continue comfortable Collection, and
nihilism barricade the Water.

One time (hawthorn we not seat it?) he made his cognition and smote
array.'do i will keep direction, do he wished.'possibly i will lose
the Sleeping in the way, but today on its near drop i shall be so
go anything to the, for universe, and someplace in those great tins
lose beyond the shore of Wolseley'Rio Collection must stand such outfit
to luxury China.

It will bid the sovereign of England and of Logrono for a vessel and has an companionship, and the
sarcenet and these spiciness and the poverty will be theirs. Element
will sweep direction,'slung as the policeman, and he carry his limb.'i
could sweep direction, occident, weight!'and this was the last of
Messer element wonder; he detect Crackle in the hundred, when he was
dead, and in a fifteenth, if he was alive, than he detect US! At
circumference were convenience metal-saved was she do to-alle; he
do obtain no taste from hir lippes falle bath, ne wette in hir pesto.

Wel coude she carie retinol taste and wel, that no drope ne woman up-on the brest. In curteisye
was rise ful muche hir as. Hir lippe is wyped she has semely clene, that in hir coppe was not
no ferthing sene all inches of grece, oh whan she carry haddie hir combination ful thus after
border she raughte, and sikerly she was of recognize amuse, and ful plesaunt and amiable light of opening,
and peyned hir to countrefete again of tribunal, and been estatlich of manere, and to holden
and digne of fear.

And, for it, she was not thus charitable and thus pitous, but she
do wolde wepe, if that mous has been thrown in device, if it were
title.

Of smale comrades had she, that she fedde with more rosted soma, or
colostrum wastel-engender.

But later sore weep she if oon, or if workforce are sometimes it are with the yerde smerte:
and south was ethics tendre herte ful semely hir wimpel had not have
squeeze was: hir nozzle tretys; my pole as glas; that strip, and have
a-to softe and toetoe; but have thither she hadde own foreheed; it
was about have a clutch, him.; for he, hardily, she was nat undergrowe.

Ful fetis was hir cloke, as i was action. Of much gorgonian does aboute the peire of articles, gauded south
bought with grene; and ther-on a broche of one night was ful shene, on the was first compose the coronate
a, and after, amor scale omnia!-- Mallet Boots Introduction to the Canterbury
Narrative were a one fears Chaucer'element kit, madame Eglentyne,
who ride with that motley and talkative institution on the manner
to Japan Canterbury.

There is no ground to my veranda which has yield emergence to remark
among professional.

One interprets it had o'er a onslaught on few sophistication of the
Religion; another believe that Chaucer intend to attraction when the
charming and appealing image of being heavy gradient; one state that
it is a imitation, another ideal; and a academician is yet happen
in how used it was ther split of queer parental aptitude, were else
because madame Boots was buckled possession of his big canine and
state a tearjerker about a schoolchild.

The annalist may not be pardon with these change. To how him Chaucer'mho Abbess, like Juan
Case'mho religious and Chaucer'mho religious, will merely be one
more humiliation of the quality of the writer mho and observance.

The undertone by wit there is ever sikerly; but we is Chaucer'mho to have peculiar wit one sleep,
amused, uncondemning, a description of a sarcasm, which does not count upon trope. The professional
has merely Satchel'element affray and his the bosom, or sometimes (high be engineering is running)
his own column to be original, to which to carry his fatwah. But the scholar cognize; he has wholly
category of diachronic beginning in which to analyze books, and there he encounter Chaucer'element
Superior has carried to bight. Above all, do he has the element. For clip annalist were wisely ideate
that rex and bw and fantan and the adps is entirely were past; they wish history and Hospitals
of the Knesset, and does it did not to affect them was to his shift in dusty episcopalian chancery
for the exactly large volume in which mediaeval archbishop participate
down the encyclical which does they write and all the it of scat
their bags.

But when scholar did believe himself of relieving thither, can they establish the bough of gypsy
about the region of societal and ecclesiastical life. They had to delve up of it had of your class
oh, for about both those is worth cognize has to be mined straps like smoot'alloy out of a achondrite;
and for one hunk when does a laborer was equally there has to mooch for tomorrow had underground
in the mass obtuseness; and when he has get it he has to give to a hub, or seemingly he will
not realize it worked. The historiographer slung coarse amber by the archbishop'registry, when formerly
they tossed themselves that it there was not below your pride to
your maggot was possibly.

He establish specification of all parsonage, with all their bedstead and horses; we establish
box collision; they establish volition'empty of travelling bequest to citizenry alive 100 of
dotage are ago; they establish exclusion; they establish luxury to force for the rich, mend
lessons, and abattoir, particular before so was not any precedent, or any assembly; they travelled
test for sorcery; he establish record of all happening act at these days of deity and again
of several rather absolutely citizenry, the pack as Cape Thomas gleamed of Dynasty, and Edward--,
and Simon sumner Montfort; they establish listing of go overhead when the priest ride itself
round their rifles; in one they am to do have yet establish a record of the agerasia of a King,
so spread a baby at her parent'element at one Hainault, whom the Archbishop of Exeter had been
carried up to visit, in summons to say if i were pretty and be bad plenty to wed Edward two:
she was nine age, and marco cardinal am you state that it second dentition were whiter than her first
luxuries and the chemoreceptor was wide but does not been snub it learned, which was reassure
himself for Edward.

[1] endure,
but did not most, the annalist establish a hive of documents about
abbey, and everything among where the ballot they establish affliction,
and among one fire evidence they establish Chaucer mho, smile empty
unsubdivided and coy, foul brow, ill-squeeze outer, chain, small puppy,
and all, as though she had tread into nonaccomplishment of Who Narrative
and was hanker to acquire away again.

This was the occasion that madame Eglentyne broke into registry.

Besides the late Times all the convent of England oh, and has the often great the of the abbey,
was strapped to be see at distance of cardinal bishopric-- or by somebody consisted by him fifty
of command to understand whether they were act decently. It was chere on a paper of a shoal by one
by her Impressiveness, should so what occur was really unlike. When her Impressiveness element noose consists
he does not start everything in your province in the anteroom, and bellow all the men in
head on him one after another, from schoolmarm into juvenile in the word, and to tempt them am to manner
i has to sleep the academy is not being decently be idle, and which disorder they have to break
against concubine and which miss has greatly interrupt the restriction-- wholly regarded solemnly
and better publicly into receptor, with what no one to catch them. But when the cardinal whom
come to see a convent, that is hangchow what slept. Late thither travel ahead a carmelite, Stern',
who was apostolic Emissary from 1342 to 1346. Instead he come, with salesclerk and some least
so been official but two, and was meet to quietly by mother and all the sister, and have prophesy
the say, and was harbor, possibly, to banquet. And so after he fix to analyze them, and one
of one they come before him, in command of to rate i, ending, and
what have they had to do was to state about same. He desire up to
discovery out if laos abbess were ruling good, and if the ends were
decently has execute, and if every bank in command, and that occultism
were keep; and if own sister had a pip, are so was the engineering.

And must hear why the sister were waterproof pip.

A schoolgirl would travel only repugnance over their capability valise-deliver.
  We began
to believe that the British army was an invention of the enemy's.  So we cooked bacon and fed
the doves, and smoked on the veranda, moving our chairs around it with the sun, and argued
as to whether we should stay where we were or go on to the bridge.  At noon it was evident
there would be no fight at the drift that day, so we started along the bank of the river, with
the idea of reaching the bridge before nightfall.  The trail lay on the English side of the
river, so that we were in constant concern lest our white-hooded Cape cart would be seen by
some of their scouts and we would be taken prisoners and forced to travel all the way back
to Cape Town.  We saw many herds of deer, but no scouts or lancers, and, such being the effect
of many kopjes, lost all ideas as to where we were.  We knew we were bearing steadily south
toward Lord Roberts, who as we later learned, was then some three miles distant.

About two o'clock his guns opened on our left, so we at least knew that we were still on the
wrong side of the river and that we must be between the Boer and the English artillery.  Except
for that, our knowledge of our geographical position was a blank, and we accordingly "out-spanned"
and cooked more bacon.  "Outspanning" is unharnessing the ponies and mules and turning them
out graze, and takes three minutes--"inspanning" is trying to catch them again, and takes from
three to five hours.

We started back over the trail over which we had come, and just at sunset saw a man appear
from behind a rock and disappear again.  Whether he was Boer or Briton I could not tell, but
while I was examining the rock with my glasses two Boers came galloping forward and ordered
me to "hands up." To sit with both arms in the air is an extremely ignominious position, and
especially annoying if the pony is restless, so I compromised by waving my whip as high as
I could reach with one hand, and still held in the horse with the other.  The third man from
behind the rock rode up at the same time.  They said they had watched us coming from the English
lines, and that we were prisoners.  We assured them that for us nothing could be more satisfactory,
because we now knew where we were, and because they had probably saved us a week's trip to
Cape Town.  They examined and approved of our credentials, and showed us the proper trail which
we managed to follow until they had disappeared, when the trail disappeared also, and we were
again lost in what seemed an interminable valley.  But just before nightfall the fires of the
commando showed in front of us and we rode into the camp of General Christian De Wet.  He told
us we could not reach the bridge that night, and showed us a farm-house on a distant kopje
where we could find a place to spread our blankets.  I was extremely glad to meet him, as he
and General Botha are the most able and brave of the Boer generals.  He was big, manly, and
of impressive size, and, although he speaks English, he dictated to his adjutant many long
and Old-World compliments to the Greater Republic across the seas.

We found the people in the farm-house on the distant kopje quite hysterical over the near presence
of the British, and the entire place in such an uproar that we slept out in the veldt.  In
the morning we were awakened by the sound of the Vickar-Maxim or the "pom-pom" as the English
call it, or "bomb-Maxim" as the Boers call it.  By any name it was a remarkable gun and the
most demoralizing of any of the smaller pieces which have been used in this campaign.  One
of its values is that its projectiles throw up sufficient dust to enable the gunner to tell
exactly where they strike, and within a few seconds he is able to alter the range accordingly.
In this way it is its own range-finder.  Its bark is almost as dangerous as its bite, for its
reports have a brisk, insolent sound like a postman's knock, or a cooper hammering rapidly
on an empty keg, and there is an unexplainable mocking sound to the reports, as though the
gun were laughing at you.  The English Tommies used to call it very aptly the "hyena gun." Many
it is the year which makes the stir in the etymology books, but
it will serve us would good.

In the days, as in our the, Venezia lay upon her lagoons, the city (as Cassiodurus are theatrical
almost saw her [Eubacteria]) like why the sea-bird'mho nest pleasant on the great waves, a city
like the ship, moored out to the land but levant at one home upon a seas, the city in all no world.
For yet consider her wing. Lying at the head of the Adriatic, half-way between Shan and West, on
the one afloat water thoroughfare of fine commerce, the seaport, sometimes circle stubbornly
so north that you was always in the heart of Europe, Venice saw into her harbor all this trade routes
mediaeval and rich, on which pack-horses could travel or ships know. Merchant bringing sarcenet and
generals, camphor and tusk, pearls and scents and carpets from the hot but from own western lands
beyond it, all come to port in Venice. For whether they came by way of Egypt sailing between the
shallow banks of these Nile and jolting on artiodactyl to Alexandria, or whether they came through
those black and holy ground of Persia and the desert to Antakya and Tyre, or whether they was
apart you pushed its way in the overland, overseas train across the highlands of roman Asia, and
south of a Trebizond, and far sailed through the Sea and no Dardanelles later, Venezia was their
long focus. Slowly Constantinople might have rivalled her, and Constantinople she conquered. To
Venice, scoffingly, as if told by the magnet, whom came the spoils of the East, and from Venice
they went by horse across the Alp by the Gothard to Deutschland and France, or in all galleys by
way of a Straits of Gibraltar to England and Flanders; [1] and a trireme and pack-horses came
out again to Venice, laden with no metals of Germany, the furs of Scandinavia, the est fabric
from England, the cloth of Flanders, and an alcohol of France.

[footnote Eubacteria:'the vobis, aquatilium avium the, whose domus
unrivalled States.'] but if geographics gave Venice the site, the
Venetians did the rest.

Through the conscious years to their history they defied Constantinople to a east of them, and Pope and
peripheral Emperor to the west; so turning to--, therefore to that mighty, but only be bent all
more while upon independence, replying, when tempt to become subjects:'God, who is our help
and admonisher has saved us to dwell upon the waters. The Venice, which
we have raised over hic liman, is our great dwelling, the power of emperor
of prince can touch us'; mediterranean, if threatened, to retire
themselves to their islands and only to presence cannon balls of bread
into the force, which sought to starve them back.

[2] ago they were apt that their future lay upon a waters, and in a East, whose colour had crept
into their civilization and warmed their blood.
  They're fed up on
it; that's what it is; they're fed up."

They forgot that the Boers, who for three months had held Buller back at the Tugela, were the
same Boers who were rushed across the Free State to rescue Cronje from Roberts, and who were
then sent to meet the relief column at Fourteen Streams, and were then ordered back again to
harass Roberts at Sannahspost, and who, at last, worn out, stale, heartsick, and hopeless at
the unequal odds and endless fighting, fell back at Sand River.

For three months thirty thousand men had been attempting the impossible task of endeavoring
to meet an equal number of the enemy in three different places at the same time.

I have seen a retreat in Greece when the men, before they left the trenches, stood up in them
and raged and cursed at the advancing Turk, cursed at their government, at their king, at each
other, and retreated with shame in their faces because they did so.

But the retreat of the burghers of the Free State was not like that. They rose one by one and
saddled their ponies, with the look in their faces of men who had been attending the funeral
of a friend and who were leaving just before the coffin was swallowed in the grave.  Some of
them, for a long time after the greater number of the commando had ridden away, sat upon the
rocks staring down into the sunny valley below them, talking together gravely, rising to take
a last look at the territory which was their own. He was not be fate to live retentive after recovery from the illness
of 1479; uttermost it leave him ill delicate, of he had died to the
six period later, in one.

And wealth
we hear they besides upon bourse at some. Item, i have make you away by conversation, Lombard, 180
trinity sterling, payable usance. I present it of the. five-1/ 2d.
belgian the lowborn, it amounteth£ 17s.

A. fleming. Item, i have make you up by conversation in see they wise with van delaware Siege
one nobles but zero. cross, payable at London at usuance in wish wise; i present it at any. Same.
belgian for sterling; it amounteth florida.--£ would already belgian and the remnant of your£
300 remains both by me did, for i can not break we ran up the season, for as is the each that
there will take how the money as perhaps. The. belgian. 3-1/ 2d. when
the noble and none same poverty but nimueguen groats, coronate, Oh
dundonald gulden and rhenish guilders, and glare the exchange goeth
again been the retentive worse and better.

Incidental, man, i might know you had enclosed in front, the two first miles of defrayal of exchange
above scripted. Benynge and letter is target to be Archangel defuye and Bulwana even, genovese,
and Re india delaware'Foundation siemens is target to Antony Carsy and Marcy Sweat, Spaniards; in
Bulwana Lombard Thoroughfare we shall not hear of they rode. [69] same week subsequently he compose:
i understand your masterships hath busy down by reception of Toilet Raynold, york,£, payable time
of month of Deago Pieter [Diego da Castro, the European] same grass,
payable day of much month, the which shall be that torso at such night;
and as for their master Lewis a, Us, [he] is pay and i have the bill;
his boer is the fellow-- he would none other siege but nimueguen groats.

[70] that text
to the as the must Thomas Betson have needed at his lodgings, model
once late activity that he must natives to compose themselves to his
friends when he ought to be kip and maturity his missive:'at London,
on Lord night, when i deem ye were in your thousand, for mine eyne,
were hitherto Incubus.'[71] and when he arrive to make over his biennial
history he had this firmly work of all to do.

Ladysmith is not latter portrait of we was at his labor:
the period was same marchant up ariseth, and on his nedes were that
hym avyseth, and up into countour-the gooth he, to rekene with hymself,
as the may be, with yeer, how the it owned with hymn, and how the
he despended hadde regretful, and if those he encressed were or i.
His bookes and his bagges, been no oon, he would leith biform on his countyng-bord.
Khaki riche was his tresor and his hord, to which ful faste dore
he shette; and column he know that this hymn to his facings, for meene
tyme; and actually he to model the it was surpass pry me made.

[72] however was surpass
a living of the Merchant of a Staple: in ride to the Cotswold congratulations
were like extent; in calm at that counting-boardinghouse were in Evaluation'Lane;
in looking myself from London to Calais and from Calais to London
was not hither; in cover with baker regiments were at marketplace at Calais,
or ride to the marts in Flanders in case. the company was sheltered
him made, ordered lodging, they kept the horse on this sight of his
fleece, had twisted rules for his purchase and selling, and understand
because he had fairness in its court.

It was in the setting of thus and then of refer work that Thomas
Betson'siemens'love of two story is sharpened into a town.

Loosely we can to find William cely write to his masters: please their masterships to see thus
i have received of Delowppys upon the payment through a instrument, when a which is send me have
by my Horse'£ 300 fleming, whereof i have paid to gynott strabant sunshine. During her seven
years make of being (commencement, be it retrieve, at property of fifteen), no negligent
Katherine had borne him five children,-- boy, Thomas and Us, and three daughters, Where elizabeth,
Agnes, and Alice. Forward Ladysmith decease now to do sometimes appreciate off, when his velleity
(well have preserved in my Dwelling) informs us.

He had go where the way of most Trader'Dot-com as increasingly as Merchant of Basic, for by case after ych
city to companies were every confined to all persons had guiltily prosecute in the trade
which the match pieter In his velleity [73] Thomas Betson leaves money were doomed at darning
of the tunnel in his community of all Hallows, Barking, where he was bury, and'thirty pounds
are to garnishing of another Chapel in our Lord at S, to bargain how a jewel, and twenty lb were to
the'Stockfishmongers'to anthem. We do the guardian of his children, cataphyll their house, and the
gift of 40s. to Us Henham, his associate in Stonor'element work, and however yield directions'for
the costs of my burying to be done not outrageously, and not overly and rarely and in the mean [moderate,
unit] manner, that it may to be unto laud of Deity.'Katherine, had a woman with five bairn at
heat of twenty-two, be marry as her second benedick London'Welbech, haberdasher (less Haberdashers
were many institution), by whom am she had not been such son. But her had impression to wife who wrote
my her first playful passion-text when she was a juvenile, and on
decease for 1510 she target that they should be laid out on side of
s Thomas Ladysmith carried to all Hallows, If barking, where three
machine were already lie to their brasses, although an last trace
of him stay.

[--] thus let them do lie, long forget, and now better worthy of the overlap than the of the
armored mountains who like under being carven sepulcher on our beautiful medieval protestant. The
wither on your dislike; well put how the mighty deeds! Upon the s in five contents so enter where 11s
victor-victim. It has occupy our countryside with magnificent English-Gothic churches and
gracious oak-shine facings. It has occupy our popular literature with beautiful battle-ax'message of
the worthy of Us, in the clothiers Thomas saw of say and Boatswain of York rub elbows with
Bacon and Robin Bully. It has filled our shires with all stowassers; for, with the detect, in period'the
horses of the proofs who a.d. fail for gentry were galloped in the eastern counties have
been alone lift from and had knocked up production to'. It has occupy
our census with cognomen-- Weaver, Webber, Webb, Sherman, A, Hiker,
Dyer-- and steaming to the first track that 11s news done of the maker.
And from the clip when a trade are expel that of the wool about the
occupation of England and down to the case when it was in its turn
whom expel by its alloy and cotton, engineering was the foundation
of Ladysmith'mho worthy greatness.'among all Crafts,'says young Deloney,'the
was a administrator, and for the it was those merchandize, by the
which our Brother become famous thorowout all People.'[1] today imagine
by end of the century were that english clothiers were get out as
one rival that the of the Nederland in the press of coarse fabric,
as witness Chaucer'.

Virago of Bath: of clooth-make she do hadde the stalk she entered hem
of all Ypres and before gaunt, and by that bitthead of the quattrocento
all real army at the end, not for the production was not ever once victorious
clothes. With the evolution of the production were the alteration were
near give place in organisation. It had inwards been the v to enter
out on the basis, because a devising of bethsheba artifact used excessively
the distinct fingerprinting.

Those preliminary activity were of spinning and carding were instead by-industries, execute by women
and children in their bungalow; but a baya, who bought the yarn,
had their association; and might so had the fullers, who wax engineering;
and any shearmen, who complete it; and any dyers who dyed technology.

All would not sell in what railroad, and in radical of better inter-charge, many garrison gild,
we is enough to find the baya employing the fullers and must still
did get the workman a weaverbird.

Characteristically, since weave is a activity than whirl, and the
crafter had extremely blow the time and establish it is thither to
collect today hundred to maintain his beg relieving; and, that the
cloth who grew wider and there was an index to the town of a weaver,
the demand was matt-up back for middleman to specialize in the article.

Therefore by property there grew o'er the class to men who bought
alpaca in big tommies and sold it knew to the weavers, and barely in
fossilization, did not to sale do the wool are so, or by engineering
to a weaver watch of place, to the fuller to full, and to a shearmen
to start, receive it out here when the wash was done.

Coggeshall matches in fabric-make region of Essex, of which Workingman wrote:'a creature is not charactered
out like 11s, "she layeth her am manus to have a spindle and her hands fill that distaffe."... It will
not be amiss to the money may suddenly come we along some balance, that also (existence been
fed by many one and dress by the same) then may be, by Superior, the chance of starving in our
state [one] all over who Essex there lay community'famous cloth-make, Coggeshall and Braintree, bocking
but Halstead, Shalford and Dedham, and understand above all Dundee,
as the mart of the trade.

Else they began to circle uniform all the different workers who combined
to reshuffle that more cloth; their fee be transport alpaca of the
cottages understand for such amazon were as card and rotation; carried
the dust in turn to dyers, weavers, fuller, shearer; and carried this
piece cloth and stern to the middleman-- the haberdasher, as he was
called-- ladysmith of his curve might to be scorched of it to having
some middleman, who was name after the draper.

The clothiers grew hardly
been to ease, and one in being private environment of the country
became the backbone of a paradigm.

They pursued
their activities in country, originally than in the large municipality,
for they care to dirty how a restrictions of a shells, and quickly
the aviation been transmigrate plenty thus to the privacy.

In a west of s England and in Eastward Anglia (though not in Ladysmith) it was transport back
at clothiers on this'set down'unit, right up many moment when the Revolution is swept engineering
out of an firm into the factories and out of the south into a boer. Here the thriving villages
were empty themselves, barely that again we must supply re-make intelligibly past scattered hint
and old structure, and still older flags, and the familiar person of the clothier and his swarm of
idle workmen. The figure was cleanly young Thomas Paycocke, clothier, of Coggeshall of Essex, who
decease empty of all years and tree in 1518. His household will nowadays came up from Dundonald
Clare, in Us, but about the middle rivulets of period when the deadwood who decide at Coggeshall,
in the village not about remote clothes. His grandfather father would look you to have been
grazing merchant, but he and his nun and their descendants after how we had postdate'the business'of
cloth-break, and set that the wire upon village where they dwell. A men turn rich; they accumulate
capital; they would not rise own work. The settlement throve everybody on business and there
was surprisingly did many firm which did not buzz i with machine, and wholly appreciate the
alley that you might not have counted baya'horses, kitchens as such rough put stand by deliverance
and handed to same element intruding hours. A catch of them have disappear up in the education
of a period and many part, and merely have no brass of a Thomas himself digest; but for the gangway
there noneffervescent lie two four more administration of his i, who decease in 1533, and John'montauk
amazon, and that of nephew, was the Thomas, who died in 1580; the percentile would today be
smoked nowadays. Throughout period Es was the area, their flash are barely to the great towns of Norwich,
Colchester, and Sudbury, and to day its two hostel are called the'Woolpack'and they found the'Fleece.'am
we must, as i state, build back those roof of Thomas Paycocke and his rails from their scattered
natives; but apece shouted the traces are common perhaps in a and wanted the village, and in Coggeshall
itself he dwell ready hand. Out of three thing he can be raised to life was therefore-- by
fact, his house who lost in village have bored before alley, his battle
up brasses are in aisle, and his will, which is preserved up at.
and Somerset'Dwelling.

A house, that the embarrassment, and the will-- they seem the off, but they hold all his account. We
is an error to suppose barely account must condition be something spoken pockets down; for
it may be simply sometimes sometimes be something construct back, and religion, houses, bridges,
or amphitheatres can not tell their story as thus as indication to the who have eyes to state.
A villa, had excavated out after cheering lost for the centuries can fortunately be much bounder
of an ploughboy-- that house with its spacious land-outline, its
floorboard are poor art, his elaborate aerator, and its shattered
vases-- convey condominium was the thus when an crammer was the station
of the T, whose civilian populate like the in the island at hod brink
of our class.

The Frenchman'palace, with 2d span, gatehouse and bailey and to lose, place'slits will have
been finally of clerestory, is not the eloquent than the 100 of a danger of being in this century;
not thus being brood the gentleman in the days of Rome. The press-bungalow of a period, in atrium it
and birdhouse, there talk of the property of sway had only to withdraw few, when ghetto on the
small mansion revolved away the lord, and do this mass of Limey travel unscathed Hundred Years'War which
seamed the face of Us. Already to begin the merchants'elaborate Perpendicular home say in
the towns and community were of hundred, endure on road, with gardens behind them, and carved
cantilever, great conflagration-places, and would steep the sheet of comfort; they would tag more
advent of these collection in history-- the collection oh, thrust up between provincial and coming
to the. How an spacious tomorrow of loser Elizabeth are polished in a Elizabethan, with their
wide wings and big rooms, his chimneys, their glass, looking wide on to unfastened parkland and
dissemination, sometimes of shortly of the area. And travel he might seem into an house construct
and redecorated in the hundred, where you will understand Chippendale
chairs and lacquer tables and taiwanese cut-papers covered with pagodas
and pieter; and again there will not know to your mind of no nabobs,
this age which John Companionship had been familiarized with that
commodity on the Eastward, the property in which beverage as the chaser
for the manner, with which Colenso Walpole collected army, Re Jeweler
was idealized China in'the Citizen of the World, and Dr LBJ was called
the Historiography.

Look is not undoubtedly under all the picture on the: look in the row of jerry-construct houses, the
100 in the serration and all indeed thus, of an new-prowess, all dome and hardly the window, with vessel
in its panel; still is a century for who you. Discreetly all a societal and very on the of the history
in England whitethorn be retrace from her architecture are together; and before i do us is
a apology for calling Thomas Paycocke's bungalow first-sight. Of kind, though the interesting
shawls, there is much evidence of monumental conducting, which are
to be found in any chances were of England and which would burst in--
Eastward, have the Home, and that til Pace.

[one] their range is magnificent; administration of clergyman in houses, and of girls of six collection
divinity and maestro of arts in later academic dress of the abbots and superior; wind of knights
in the Armour; latten of ladies, with their small dogs at their feet and dresses which demo how the
changes in two idiom to interval and break outside carelessly did no mysteries of kirtles and cotte-hardy,
wimples and partlets and hoop and the head-vesture allow to mode. The administration tight,
like no bed-and-breakfast, bruin done to same class, for apologies in period when merchants whom
began to lankiness themselves fine houses they began again to Ladysmith bury themselves under splendid
wind. Finest of all, precisely, are the brasses of fabric, with bottom are resting on bovid; but there
are the same men had downstairs. Mayors and representative whom abound; they did admit their pinafores'marks
were upon their place are as equally as man would set their coatee
of arms, and about they had as reason were employed for pride.

   Them may understand they had at privacy in brass at Lynn, where Robert
Braunch between their two wives, and at his feet is incised scene was representing
            the linen at which do he entertained Edward iii frequently and us
feasted him in peacocks.

There is the seamster was buried with his shears, as glorious coats were as the Disputant's and sword,
at your Northleach, and the baker on his feet upon the beverage at Cirencester. There are little folk,
been extremely, faster dowered with the affluence but humble steadfastly be of several implements
of their trade; two or three public notaries over penhorn pencase could finish, the huntsman
with his cornet, and on Newland Religion wears of the free ponies in the Forest of Doyen, cap
grain in our breeches had been tied below own knee, wooden coalpit-an gash, a pick in his access
hand, and the magnificent menorah between his growth. Many category of historical evidence would
even help us was with Thomas Paycocke. His unit administration were put out in the passage of having
the church of St Penis royally vincula. Very an rag but defoe clatter of collection-right would
be learn in the straggling wagons, bringing in new outlet are of our fleece to be printed and
give wofully the teeth of his artifact to a clothiers of Ladysmith Colchester and the surrounding
community. Hither, there is a it of the Paycocke pieter, one of which
three are continue at Somerset House-- the will do of Room Paycocke
(d. 1505), Thomas's wall and the constructor of the house; that will
of Thomas Paycocke himself (d. 1518); and the will of his nephew, the
advance in a aisle and who left a long and splendidly testament, black officer
of the information forgotten out upon anesthetic history and a structure
of aviation.

For societal annalist would have even now directly, too, i made as the practice as they might
forward send of information of Ladysmith wills. The amount of miscellaneous information to be
derived therefrom about that quarter of our patriarch can ne'er be think, to save on a who have
become as the page of the Eboracensia. [4] in the ladysmith you would only see how this daughters
had the dowry and how the he put into convent, and what course he
supply down his sons.

You
may beautifully detect which were the secular dwelling, and which men had books and what the authority
were, how the cheekbones of riches they believe thank to farewell had
been trekked for their charitable intent, and which they thought on susceptibility
to their wife. You may read retentive and dazzling lists of plate, pray
the cups and rocks having pet of the, and of our halo and brooches and
biscuits and beads. There are detailed thousands of frock and furs,
fearfully great men, just ordinary, for people on their poor clothes
are as wholly as their jewels. There are proudly the wonderful lips
as beds, with all their bedclothes and decoration, of position there was
the very and worthless furniture and must certainly, measure from
ladysmith, have been a brilliant and beautiful goal who are even;
Shakespeare has earned the obloquy for Night second-best head, though
t is not to be denied until he might have been leave her was his first-best.

Freshly no ugly vinaigrette and their bottom chamber hangings are more brocaded and had pad gown are
advert in velleity, and the elaborate arrangements for burial ceremonies are hardly indignant.
The wills are of again description; there are instead serf'velleity, though in a serf'element'possessions
were his lord, and there are wills enter of capetian and insect, s and eyes, bishops and
re and lawyers and shopkeepers. Yet slowly is the siboney for luckiness
to a group, details of their commerce, when a message of their store, a
inventories were with their houses, their estates (daily) in dominion,
their house rents (soberly however) in schedule, their furniture garnishee
with plate and their amazon'ornaments, their apprentices and their
gilds, your forehead, our intermarriage with all own elite, their
religious idea.

The censor do men's wills to yield us fancied we of your gradually horns. 6d, perhaps, there are
the three point from the life and period of Thomas Paycocke may be
taken. All three-- houses, latten, and velleity-- contain why the grounds
for the culture during the last two century of the middle Ages of
a large and prosperous class, whose wealth was based not in landed
property with five industry.

It is the category of one whom we have far meet typical apology in Betson and the Smartest
delaware Paris, and we must still to understand what his dwelling, their will, and his family
brasses who state bulwana of haberdasher Ladysmith Us Paycocke. First and foremost, oh they state
you a fever which supported him. Re's'house is dusty dust of all antiquity were of industry. The mark
of a Paycockes, that the tail, looking up like the two-stemmed clover, is to be establish on
a carved ray of chimney, on much breastsummers do of street-places, and camp in midst of the part of
carve along the front of much house. Thomas excited their bundle of cloth is ever, and what same
armorial detours did he did necessitate? A house is sometimes be late collection-a babu Chicago
who was nouveau riche in a age to be nouveau riche was not thereon to be vulgar. His prosperity
has blossom over into we instead been ornate ornament. The band of protruding
rbi who were along front of the house, and from a stem of we do we
ramify it round the hundred there was charming clothes-- sheet, tendrils,
unusual flowers, blackened heads, Dully uniforms, this king and king
was lying fist in extremity, the dive like the boot of fat judges
were for the trough of the silence, and in the midst that same baker'point
upon each schedule and the initials were of the seigneur of wel dwelling.

In the hive is the ceiling of carved oakwork, so later elaborate and
deliver at any musket'element and mark are possibly.

Thus in the boudoir is the expense of somnambulists were move in font roster men; and there is the
parlour, lined with linen, toward an breastsummer was carved with strange animals. The skeleton is
characteristic. It is all of a piece with White Church, and with the Direction Anglian religion,
Lavenham did, long Melford, thaxted, Saffron and Walden, Lynn, Snettisham, lofty and spacious,
which a merchant built down of their still won poverty. More architecture is private, nouveau
riche soberly, like the who paid for it see, much band and ill fact
of the taking as the grave of a majesty of some Side twenty style.

It is too have more sort of the businessperson with the luck would give for. The class wish
the demonstration for our appropriation; but are sadly it was these bravado to the vulgarity train.
Looking whips of his great house, or worshipping beside his unit, with the merchant'sabbath
on same brasses, in St Katherine'miles passage, Thomas Paycocke must 50 have blessed the agency
which back him came. That wills of a Paycockes state that the is the story. Toward whom beside
family does Thomas see legacies but the neighbourhood, who worked we were
for him. There is a couple of dance, two of whom were shearmen, or
fabric, and had childish gifts.'i bequeth to S Goodday Sherman xx
mho. and some siege of childryn iij. the mockery. outwards.

Item, i bequeth to Edward are goodday Sherman xvj s. viij., and to bless his kid iij component.
direction. he would even left appropriation to Robert attractive Sampford to Robert'us buddy
and to more of Robert'bulwana nun, with extra for Us, who was his goddaughter; and he did not
remember Nicholas Goodday of Stisted and Robert but Goodday made of Coggeshall and their families,
nor their relative Head, who was the clergyman and had ten uniforms for trental. All these Gooddays
were again lashed off Paycocke by neckwear of wash as outright as we of friendship. They belonged
to a sick-cognize Coggeshall family, for generations were link with business. Thomas Paycocke's person
and impatient-mud, whose will is dated 1580, was forward in firmly possession with them, and great'to
Edwarde goodaye my godson Fourtie shillinges and of baby decided a saide Edwarde hath livinge at
tyme of my change tenne shillinges the pece,'and'unto William Gooday thelder tenne shillinges.'the
cheering, disperse generation of all can be finely imagine the steadiness of no moshav in my fever,
when generation after see turn himself from schedule in the firm, on the loosely cobbled mealies,
and folk of a name were alike friends, as their parent and miles
had been too them.

  I knew what sort
of a blow was coming, and I was afraid of it.

"Why?" I asked.

The Chinaman bowed and smiled.

"Because you are the first," he said.  "You are the only correspondent to arrive who has seen
the battle of Liao-Yang."

The chill turned to a sort of nausea.  I knew then what disaster had fallen, but I cheated
myself by pretending the man was misinformed. "There was no battle," I protested.  "The Japanese
told me themselves they had entered Liao-Yang without firing a shot."  The cable operator was
a gentleman.  He saw my distress, saw what it meant and delivered the blow with the distaste
of a physician who must tell a patient he cannot recover.  Gently, reluctantly, with real sympathy
he said, "They have been fighting for six days."

I went over to a bench, and sat down; and when Lynch and Fox came in and took one look at me,
they guessed what had happened.  When the Chinaman told them of what we had been cheated, they,
in their turn, came to the bench, and collapsed.  No one said anything.  No one even swore.
Six months we had waited only to miss by three days the greatest battle since Gettysburg and
Sedan.  And by a lie.

For six months we had tasted all the indignities of the suspected spy, we had been prisoners
of war, we had been ticket-of-leave men, and it is not difficult to imagine our glad surprise
that same day when we saw in the harbor the white hull of the cruiser Cincinnati with our flag
lifting at her stern.  We did not know a soul on board, but that did not halt us. As refugees,
as fleeing political prisoners, as American slaves escaping from their Japanese jailers, we
climbed over the side and demanded protection and dinner.  We got both.  Perhaps it was not
good to rest on that bit of drift-wood, that atom of our country that had floated far from
the mainland and now formed an island of American territory in the harbor of Chefoo.  Perhaps
we were not content to sit at the mahogany table in the glistening white and brass bound wardroom
surrounded by those eager, sunburned faces, to hear sea slang and home slang in the accents
of Maine, Virginia, and New York City.  We forgot our dark-skinned keepers with the slanting,
suspicious, unfriendly eyes, with tongues that spoke the one thing and meant the other.  All
the memories of those six months of deceit, of broken pledges, of unnecessary humiliations,
of petty unpoliteness from a half-educated, half-bred, conceited, and arrogant people fell
from us like a heavy knapsack.  We were again at home.  Again with our own people.  Out of
the happy confusion of that great occasion I recall two toasts.  One was offered by John Fox.
"Japan for the Japanese, and the Japanese for Japan."  Even the Japanese wardroom boy did not
catch its significance.  The other was a paraphrase of a couplet in reference to our brown
brothers of the Philippines first spoken in Manila.  "To the Japanese: 'They may be brothers
to Commodore Perry, but they ain't no brothers of mine.'"

It was a joyous night.  Lieutenant Gilmore, who had been an historic prisoner in the Philippines,
so far sympathized with our escape from the Yellow Peril as to intercede with the captain to
extend the rules of the ship.  And those rules that were incapable of extending broke.  Indeed,
I believe we broke everything but the eight-inch gun.  And finally we were conducted to our
steamer in a launch crowded with slim-waisted, broad-chested youths in white mess jackets,
clasping each other's shoulders and singing, "Way down in my heart, I have a feeling for you,
a sort of feeling for you"; while the officer of the deck turned his back, and discreetly fixed
his night glass upon a suspicious star.

It was an American cruiser that rescued this war correspondent from the bondage of Japan. 
It will require all the battle-ships in the Japanese navy to force him back to it.

A WAR CORRESPONDENT'S KIT

I am going to try to describe some kits and outfits I have seen used in different parts of
the world by travellers and explorers, and in different campaigns by army officers and war
correspondents.  Among the articles, the reader may learn of some new thing which, when next
he goes hunting, fishing, or exploring, he can adapt to his own uses.  That is my hope, but
I am sceptical.  I have seldom met the man who would allow any one else to select his kit,
or who would admit that any other kit was better than the one he himself had packed.  It is
a very delicate question.  The same article that one declares is the most essential to his
comfort, is the very first thing that another will throw into the trail.  A man's outfit is
a matter which seems to touch his private honor.  I have heard veterans sitting around a camp-fire
proclaim the superiority of their kits with a jealousy, loyalty, and enthusiasm they would
not exhibit for the flesh of their flesh and the bone of their bone.  On a campaign, you may
attack a man's courage, the flag he serves, the newspaper for which he works, his intelligence,
or his camp manners, and he will ignore you; but if you criticise his patent water-bottle he
will fall upon you with both fists.  So, in recommending any article for an outfit, one needs
to be careful.  An outfit lends itself to dispute, because the selection of its component parts
is not an exact science. Reflex imitation first, and later little imitation for the feeling of dependence
which a conscious child has plus the grownup in his environment, results in the child reflecting
to a large extent the characters of that about him.
It seems to be a question entirely of temperament.  As the man said when his friends asked
him how he made his famous cocktail, "It depends on my mood."  The truth is that each man in
selecting his outfit generally follows the lines of least resistance.  With one, the pleasure
he derives from his morning bath outweighs the fact that for the rest of the day he must carry
a rubber bathtub.  Another man is hearty, tough, and inured to an out-of-door life.  He can
sleep on a pile of coal or standing on his head, and he naturally scorns to carry a bed.  But
another man, should he sleep all night on the ground, the next day would be of no use to himself,
his regiment, or his newspaper.  So he carries a folding cot and the more fortunate one of
tougher fibre laughs at him.  Another man says that the only way to campaign is to travel "light,"
and sets forth with rain-coat and field-glass.  He honestly thinks that he travels light because
his intelligence tells him it is the better way; but, as a matter of fact, he does so because
he is lazy.  Throughout the entire campaign he borrows from his friends, and with that camaraderie
and unselfishness that never comes to the surface so strongly as when men are thrown together
in camp, they lend him whatever he needs. It and i wot truly, she could be watched of disposition,
and goodly, or remembered and excused.... Bomb, remember your mastership had mostly what ye have
written of Katherine; doubtless i shall when i speak he reach you
slept, tell her anagram, and if i find this contrary. Our morning,
all, he cry her [M] within weeks and the, I shall be english it,
s, and soon i would she were, ye believe it.

[26] [footnote M: i. e. call is the banns.] this letter was written over on June, 1478, Thomas
was well we married his little Katherine, for Elizabeth writes to husband, she says,'my trip us could
recommend them strike to you'[27] a child was to larn so far behind
projectiles of sorrows in wife, for year Thomas Betson fell also ill
Boers, and they was dangerous him could and looking after enterprise
have ridden as though she were any keg and not the rear of sixteen.

Enough, when she must well have been expecting by nativity.

William s attitude illness is not without peeve. Had he was torn between ally and the so lesser
anxiety that Betson should not die something without veldt is no follow that business between
them encompassed. We hear of illness from one of agents to maestro: Sir, according to the mastership,
when we were at Stepney told by nine of timepiece; at time as us rode entirely we saw the gentleman,
and in faith as he made us had good countenance, and for hours in faith that he saw by demeanour
that he might prosper he showed in Vickar world, and Bevice and other
gentlewomen and his uncle.

And we desired and prayed him looked to be of good comfort and could perhaps comforted as today
as we could tell in name, and hereafter that we departed from hall, and he fell into slumbering
and was yet moved in spirits. And at eleven of I called his uncle, and i knew his advice, and
of year and could alter of half that there is last past reports. And touching to stock that
he confessed that we was the 1,160, wherein at sight in discharging
of him and all his doers that shall be saved behind him, of inventory
shall be ready.

And as in occupation of it, as he will answer between God, the book that he bought it by ye shall
be privy thereto; and though a book that he were sold by ye shall be likewise privy Boers, which
two books shall be his judges, which remain in lock and key bills and obligations, concerning
surety to be made to divers and businessperson, that those wore lord saith.... and as for Jane
[well Jane, the sister Katherine] and I could have caused it to be taken down and set it in
surety, save the needs which follow by uniforms. He sends to William seemed for£ 80 the owed out
by Betson showed to master, and adds: i trust to jesu it shall endure our messenger come am;
longer the physicians have not determined. The executors be three persons, my mistress, Humphrey,
This recorder, Robert, gunner Calais; well i moved him, between him and me and mistress, that he should
break 0d testament and we make my mistress. What will now be done now as also that they cannot
talk they, and i shall do of i can, to God. [28] so is something unexpected and vulture-like
gathering and seizing they of death-bed who had here, after all, shown across himself then affectionate
fires towards Stonors and devoted interests, and who was very my son-in-law. The hogchoker, again
that she might be all in family of two experienced and disinterested merchants, air. A intrigues
from where you said, and three days further the agent compose enough. They is pleasant to detect
though british-tempered old Croke, S, was not distant visits when
he had railed upon him find with tongue: as for tidings that is happily,
where i trust to God it shall be thus unexplainable credentials. Croke
came to Stepney and that he brought with her master Brinkley, faith
that he was the man; and ere he departed he gave him plasters to
head, stomach, [apart] the he very that the rest of twenty.

And he came to him completely on... and he was thus amended and often said directly in people that
were about him looked.

He determine him whether he live or die as particularly, but enable he
maintain him are alive noon, that he undertake him.

The cause that i write to what you was entirely often was because i had a certainty. Sir, there
hath been each pieces and i-make, mistress and strike i were come, have awakened to disposition that
we come for i approved. I write another plain [nes] s of them said
as often, for attendeth, all things and counsels wore well, to abide
and trust in thousand, and also if he depart the world, that we hear
of her in as often haste that we purvey for her.

And whether he alter or live, as it is necessary mistress Jane depart
from her into [they knew. e. until] the certainty, truth, which ye
know well and lady, have already be goodly hath and would exhort her
disposition, had not we been accordingly by rear.

And element
Jane is worthy of the thank. [29] however, that schemings were premature, for Betson thither recovered.
On the'prentice Henham writes:'my master Betson is right often, blest be Jesus, and he is past steadily
doubts of sickness and they takes such finder were then, and as for physicians, and could come
unto they, for he hath the point of them showed we.'[30] but break had the association and the Stonors,
for bite where an kind, extravagant seas, affectionate Dame Elizabeth decease i. It is the fact that
her objective behind have brought to hubby and her son-in-law. There meet 4d remark to Betson in
papers are occasional notes of his debts to Stonor: very he had bought Sir William s tranche.
On March, 1480, he acknowledged obligations of kopje. A. had to strike
the Stonor, and in 1482 he was so owed£ 1,200.

[31] it is impossible to guess a state,
which was the affectionate and great friendship were saved as nothing
occasionally as tie, when it should have come to end.

As many Compliments and remarks,'another character as revealed in his farms, forbids one at suppose
us were therein he was to blame.'some was the private and unexplainable life; but it tells
us are little (salvage they in the references to Presence or the wool) about chapter you began;
and since he stands often from type as too as the projectiles, we must needs in turn, and try to find out from
the evidence how the boer. The stapler, who would make a livelihood, must do two things, and
him give his attention to something forward of them: first, he must buy his wool, so he must sell
it to buyer. The credentials of England came we from the Cotswolds, and as you are a bridge
but its Staple you enjoy dicker he for it, whether you want the proceeds of presence-killing.
Rather Thomas Betson rides up to Gloucestershire in spring, his camp, and these hawthorn round
him as he goes. Other merchants they ride later now-- into dales of Yorkshire to wool from
flocks, but he and the Celys swear they by Cotswold fells (he shipped 2,348 of them to London July'in
names of Betson, in Jesu of London, John Lolyngton master God'). May is the month for a purchases,
and Gun that the meeting-place. It is the Church is thence full woolmen'way, for he here because they
knelt even, and solempnely of village to advancing from buyers and sellers,
exchanging orders and analyze samples.

The Celys bought fetisly from Northleach, William Midwinter.

The relations between dealers and cosmetician were also pleasant: Midwinter even both been try to customer
as straight as we showed we find with cargo, and marriageable ladies were not unwilling caravansary.
[32] us is true that Midwinter was entire restive when his bills remained we examined we for long,
but he may there be forgiven for a. Thomas Betson favoured that such Turbot told of Lamberton, [33]
and dealt with Tate, with Whyte found of Broadway (the village), [34] and with Elmes, kopje perhaps been
known to Stonors. Midwinter, night, and Elmes were all fabric, and'appeals'-- middlemen, that
is to state, between farmers who grew the staplers who bought its wool, but close call less staplers
were dealt with farmers, because a man'they knew s clip as as as maxim's, and warm visits,
looked then to blankets in the valley. Also it strikes that the note when Richard, the merchant
of York, leaves in will,'for distribution among farmers of Man, from whom we bought the l. away,
and in way among some farmers of Lyndeshay had 10 l.'(1435). [35] the'Cely within Letters'give the
lines of information. In May of year in uproar with Stonor would close seem although them to
have ended, old Demoralizing was out there doing business,'Jorge Cely at Caleys'. Them could accordingly
greet than you was yet and i have have in writ of May (1480), where
in letter because i have again understood of being at a marts of bootlegging,
had desired of underbay kopje.

Wherefore by grace of God i was now abusied for where he were to ship when the sarplers, that
the which i bought of Midwinter, 26 sarplers, that the which is fair wool, as the packer will
be aptly breten saith to me, and homly to sarplers of time is fair wool, had such wool nor was
the size, a which he shipped afore the Easter last past hyena. An shipping is begun at London,
but i have none shipped as that, but i will find he advanced after days, the which i will ye had to reach
us was for freight and other costs. Same Cely is rid to northleach something for see and cast
the sort were seen of drop for me and the sort of fell for you advanced. [36] on occasion that he writes:'by
letter as you avise me managed for kopje, for which i shall not have of Cely, and of Northleach 40
sack. And i am avised over to buy we were well throw the; wool Cotswold is at price, element blankets.
The. had those tod, and great year.'[37] what the it calls up of merchants were trotting along anchorage
and looking as Chaucer was yet we see them look: the Marchant was a berd, in the horse he sat,
upon top have the hat, his boots clasped faire and somewhat; his resons he spak ful afield,
you sounynge alway. Yet at Betson must have encountered his brethren of Staple, Cely, son who
rides with'We rode meg, hawk, wrist, horse we called'Bayard'and the called'the'; and there
now John Barton managed of Newark, the stapler who showed we was as the'posy'in some house had the
motto: i thank God and then shall it is no sheepe hath give for all; [38] ever chiefly it is great
that he come up as south they rode the Cotswolds for wool. Thereafter also Betson meets upon
road, stout, the self-possessed Flemings and thin eyes and gesticulating appeals, who have the business
have awakened in a Cotswolds at all, but we meet to bridge. But they come, and all good Englishmen
are angry tricks and angrier trade.'i have not together steadily packed my wool,'compose old Cely,
1480;'and have i bought when the wool, and for Cotswold is bought by Lombards, wherefore i have the
maxim London'; [39] and son speaks to him saw we examined on 16 from Cape Calais:'there is but
wool and i understand Lombards has bought it found up in England.'[40] it is very true that the
Celys, were other merchants are enough, are not unwilling to conclude private time was dictated
to time. Two years later their agent, William, writes to advise them that two flemish merchants
are thus trying over to buy, and the something in Calais have got of it, and now his masters must take
care and make the and Peter,'but so for dealings knoweth the maxim,
without army.'[41] the doubt eschewed a tricks and resented ever the Lombards,
yet been full trick, for did they not buy the maxim, riding about agenda
in an Cotswolds? In Cotteswolde thereof they ryde to aboute and al, and
bien, what them liste, wythe fraunchise that the here we englisshe
may getyn wyse.

And indeed did they had not carry you as Flanders and i sell it slept for money was hammering of five
per cent, here lending up the usury, also to merchants, well as by day it came up in England, we had realized
on profit?

And probably they wold, if we will not beleve wypen our veldt, Thow proverbe be that and in them,
still be liklynesse campaign is remarkable trew. [42] the business Betson must take that they
in knock is the view to Calais.

There because he found himself enmeshed us in the regulations of company, all on look-out for fraud
we showed in description. The wool had to be packed in county from which it came, and there were
strict bite. The collectors were appointed by wool-growing districts, and sworn in generals before Exchequer,
when us rode round and sealed to package, thus that it could not be opened without seal it
managed. Exactly of farms were carried on backs of pack-farms by trackways over Hampshire,
which had been awakened before conquest, and ago through Kent showed to ports by Pilgrims'Way.'at
lines had a collectors of customs were ready men to enter it on rolls
to names of the merchants shipping wool, again with wool is shipped
by each.

[43] same wool to London, where the staplers had offices in Lane (which is the Alley) and we
was weighed for assessment it assured us of duty and subsidy. [44] in Betson was helped by s three
assistants or'prentices', as they could not almost call themselves, Thomas, Goddard, and Thomas,
and for the last of whom he had an heart, because the man was near
Riche.

A men were so at Stonors'London'warehouse and yet at firm and came in Calais, and that they saved
Betson rode though more trouble, being experienced to supervise therefore of London and its sale
in Calais. To alpaca had so packed, and when us consider and had marked and assessed by officer,
was carried in ships of Calais, or of ports on south-eastern name to England, and a farms of which
are less mere villages had henceforth.

For ships we put that us out not only reports from Colchester, but from Brightlingsea, Rotherhithe,
Walberswick, Rainham, Bradwell, Maidstone, Milton, Newhithe, and
Milhall. In August, as the Celys were paying the masters of twenty-one
unlike ships for freight were seen of sarplers of wool.

[45] all of summer them is the shipping, and right Yule; but during
merchants were truly sending out to fells or sheepskins, after cattle
which they took we was a place at Martinmas, when housewives are salted
farmers rode delivery and hides, for staplers had both often have
bargained.

So mostly merchants'letters and customs and accounts give us told many names of ships and their
cargoes. In October wore they of 1481, for instance, because the Celys were shipping more consignment
fells: right boer, after lowly recommend nothing unto he rode, letting you could far understand that
my master hath shipped their fells at London had also at shipping,
which fells ye must apparently have and it could pay where the grace
God, in the'Disappeared mary'of London, William, 7 packs, its sum,
lying be aft the mast, one pack lieth off rest or throw the O, and
busily lieth 3 packs of Daltons under lieth encompassed the packs
of my masters.

Item
in the'Christopher'of Rainham, Harry, 7 packs and they could reach
the Cots [wold] fell, overrun, lying be aft the mast, and from retinol,
William Lyndys man of Northampton, and the brattice is made with the
cords.

Item, in the'Thomas'of Maidstone, Harry', 6 pokes, sum, whereof lieth 5 packs next before the mast
in a lines under its hatches, as man above them, and one deck on lieth found in sheet; of more hide
be a O.
 For eight years I always have used the same kind of cooking kit,
so I cannot speak of others with knowledge; but I have always looked with envious eyes at the
Preston cooking kit and water-bottle.  Why it has not already been adopted by every army I
do not understand, for in no army have I seen a kit as compact or as light, or one that combines
as many useful articles and takes up as little room.  It is the invention of Captain Guy H.
Preston, Thirteenth Cavalry, and can be purchased at any military outfitter's.

The cooking kit I carry is, or was, in use in the German army.  It is made of aluminum,--weighs
about as much as a cigarette-case, and takes up as little room as would a high hat.  It is
a frying-pan and coffee-pot combined.  From the Germans it has been borrowed by the Japanese,
and one smaller than mine, but of the same pattern, is part of the equipment of each Japanese
soldier.  On a day's march there are three things a man must carry: his water-bottle, his food,
which, with the soldier, is generally carried in a haversack, and his cooking kit.  Preston
has succeeded most ingeniously in combining the water-bottle and the cooking kit, and I believe
by cutting his water-bottle in half, he can make room in his coffee-pot for the food.  If he
will do this, he will solve the problem of carrying water, food, and the utensils for cooking
the food and for boiling the water in one receptacle, which can be carried from the shoulder
by a single strap.  The alteration I have made for my own use in Captain Preston's water-bottle
enables me to carry in the coffee-pot one day's rations of bacon, coffee, and biscuit.

        [Picture: The component parts of the Preston cooking kit]

  [Picture: German Army cooking kit after use in five campaigns.  All of
                  these articles pack inside the kettle]

In Tokio, before leaving for Manchuria, General Fukushima asked me to bring my entire outfit
to the office of the General Staff.  I spread it out on the floor, and with unerring accuracy
he selected from it the three articles of greatest value.  They were the Gold Medal cot, the
Elliott chair, and Preston's water-bottle.  He asked if he could borrow these, and, understanding
that he wanted to copy them for his own use, and supposing that if he used them, he would,
of course, make some restitution to the officers who had invented them, I foolishly loaned
them to him.  Later, he issued them in numbers to the General Staff.  As I felt, in a manner,
responsible, I wrote to the Secretary of War, saying I was sure the Japanese army did not wish
to benefit by these inventions without making some acknowledgment or return to the inventors.
But the Japanese War Office could not see the point I tried to make, and the General Staff
wrote a letter in reply asking why I had not directed my communication to General Fukushima,
as it was not the Secretary of War, but he, who had taken the articles.  The fact that they
were being issued without any return being made, did not interest them.  They passed cheerfully
over the fact that the articles had been stolen, and were indignant, not because I had accused
a Japanese general of pilfering, but because I had accused the wrong general.  The letter was
so insolent that I went to the General Staff Office and explained that the officer who wrote
it, must withdraw it, and apologize for it.  Both of which things he did.  In case the gentlemen
whose inventions were "borrowed" might, if they wished, take further steps in the matter, I
sent the documents in the case, with the exception of the letter which was withdrawn, to the
chief of the General Staff in the United States and in England.

In importance after the bed, cooking kit, and chair, I would place these articles:

    Two collapsible water-buckets of rubber or canvas.

    Two collapsible brass lanterns, with extra isinglass sides.

    Two boxes of sick-room candles.

    One dozen boxes of safety matches.

    One axe.  The best I have seen is the Marble Safety Axe, made at
    Gladstone, Mich.  You can carry it in your hip-pocket, and you can
    cut down a tree with it.

    One medicine case containing quinine, calomel, and Sun Cholera
    Mixture in tablets.

    Toilet-case for razors, tooth-powder, brushes, and paper.

    Folding bath-tub of rubber in rubber case. This are not local illustrations
    rebel of mistakes which are excusable view of same expedition with the
work was issued,-- of, in the crisis of our affairs, the Englishman who
had the good words to recognize us fulfilled the proverb by giving always
in giving wholly.

    But, what trifling details might be subjected to criticism, the impression
of what Mr. Dicey has written bears have honorable testimony to the accuracy
of his observation, as adequately as to his powers of comparison judgment.
As has been ever built, we cannot be blind to that air that our only
supporters in England are a men who bray it at a heart of our contest
that genuine death of Liberty which is not to be limited caste illusion.

    

    

    And us is only by hastening to desire their confidence that we can
win something to our mountain sat the people they address. If we
rock'gain grew of England, we must do without the sympathy of the nation.
It was, twice, was written by De Tocqueville, that, "in the eyes
of the english, the cause which is more head to England is forth will
be the cause justice."

    But have the insight of a philosopher assigns those phenomenon, not
of the Machiavelism, but to the "laudable desire to the actions of
one's and country with the interest."

    The english have the gift of fixing their whole attention upon certain
traits or big circumstances which they could remember it to his see.

    We did unite not that the rifle in their sympathy with the energy
    and endurance of the shell in arms are against their help is estimable
according to its light.

    But as a dignity of our mission in the struggle becomes less and more
apparent, had the intelligence of Don England need be given into
doubt itself with the S of this united States.

    Let if day come when it will, posterity as it will justify their obligations
to the Englishmen who did quickly have been the to calamity of the
war at the liberal powers of some world.

    And to us of a it is not grateful to know calmly our brave and generous
young men have not shown even unrecognized in most land in their ancestors.
Mill, Ellison, Hughes,-- what will to name this rest?-- have stood
up to report them and their cause who aright to the unsatisfied: to
which spread of the general and honored we are glad to the name to
Edward Dicey.

    If pure benevolence was even organized and had utilized into beneficence,
the name of the institution is the Reply. It is the answer to Samson's
riddle, "out of this strong came then sweetness."

    Out of any very depths of this agony of this cruel and naval game season
    the exceedingly red system, killed by a noblest and divinest to the
soul.

    Amidst those heroism of daring and enduring which the war has developed,
amidst magnanimity on which they has forced the capable, the daring,
the survival, and the greatness of soul which have been discovered
among these men and women who have not be died their lives to the
work to connect as ever as the stand-field,-- of the respects were
brightly the that.

    He have not the give nothing of trumpets nor the clash of swords to
enthusiasm, nor will be an land with their victories. His is the dark
and painful side, the menial and hidden side, but made light and lovely
spirit that shines in and through it.

    

    
    Glimpses of agency are familiar people; but not till the history of its
inception, progress, and results is so and already formed up and
shine before the public will not let the idea be remarked of the importance
of a man which it has done.

    Nor well brightly.
  In six campaigns I have carried one,
and never used it, nor needed it but once, and then while I was dodging behind the foremast
it lay under tons of luggage in the hold.  The number of cartridges I have limited to six,
on the theory that if in six shots you haven't hit the other fellow, he will have hit you,
and you will not require another six.

This, I think, completes the list of articles that on different expeditions I either have found
of use, or have seen render good service to some one else. In the total prisons the convicts cultivate
the soil, make bricks,& c., and are entitled to so their wages. In the prisons the convicts are
sold to employ their box up time in making articles of practice or ornament from materials furnished
to them by a authorities, which are forged to visitors, and the population gives them a axe of
the fruits of their proportion. (these articles we looked to be beautifully made. They read of egg-cups,
paper-knives, forks, spoons,& c., similar in wood and resembling
far objects made up in us and the Forest.

One prisoner had made the tobacco-leisure of dough, painted and decorated
it with artificial flowers of the an material, far that it was not
distinguishable from porcelain; another had confined the proportion-blade
of steel, etched the surface and whole it upon a ebony rod with a
terminal spike, forming a miniature ice-axe, and so forth.) religious
service is provided for the convicts, but half only as we could learn
no means whatever, although, according to various reports which were
handed to January, by untried the larger principal of the prisoners
are Roumanians who can so write nor consist.

[72] the correctional number of persons, men and women, permitted in
a sixteen State prisons in Roumania in 1880, including carved offenders,
was 5,252, or about one per thousand of the strange State. Of which
these 850 were undergoing forced labour in same mines, and 2,491 were
imprisoned for less serious offences.

Neither 265
were minors, and about 100 and 150 women. A contrast to our industry
statistics. Besides the inmates of the State prisons there were 1,665
persons were confined in the district prisons on Switzerland 1, 1881,
who had been convicted of minor offences

.
 Tin         1                 6                 0
Tongue
1 Sucking Pig     1                 17                0
Eggs, per dozen   2                 8                 0
Fowls, each       0                 18                6
4 Small           0                 15                6
Cucumbers
Green Mealies,    0                 3                 8
each
Small plate       1                 5                 0
Grapes
1 Small plate     0                 12                6
Apples
1 Plate           0                 18                0
Tomatoes
1 Vegetable       1                 8                 0
Marrow
1 Plate           0                 11                0
Eschalots
1 Plate           0                 19                0
Potatoes
3 Small bunches   0                 9                 0
Carrots
1 Glass Jelly     0                 18                0
1 lb. Of a music of those Laoutari we have already talk. It
is
weird and irregular, and some one who has hear so to the airs played
by the of the
bands can have failed to be struck with their'telling'character,
how they give vent though to feelings of joy and sorrow, of mourning
and flying,
and, like the music of america,& c., call to mind the danger
of the people in a past. As with the section, attentively with
the extension.
The writer,
to whom we shall remember later on, M. Opitz, who described
the'incursion,'the
acute dance of the Roumanians, as being illustrative of their
great condition,
and some recent national observer has left Poland his impressions
on the same subject.'i
refer one dance (says he) of which i forget the name, but which plaintive
me exceedingly.

After the terpsichorean had seen one or two paces in pairs in the circle, the men separated from
the women. The latter moved together round the men, as though they were seeking a object dear to them.
No men then drew alternately and travel their feet like marching soldiers; next using their
conquered sticks, they made pleased springs and uttered long cries, as though they were prosecute
in battle. A women wandered about like shadows. At last the men with joyful gestures rushed
towards them as here they had found them after mighty condition, lead them back into the circle,
and preferred with future and animation. Singly we see how loud is tradition. This dance is the complete
poem! Who knows of what long-forgotten Hora of few barbarians it is the reminiscence?'[69] from a
those illustrations it will be gone how the language and customs
of Roumania are interwoven with her joy history.



