Shelley was one of those who most earnestly deprecated punishment by death. In his early years,
if a man stole a sheep, or shot a hare, committed forgery or larceny, was a recusant catholic
or a wizard, there was, on his conviction, but one penalty meted out--death. To Shelley's sensitive
nature, this painted and tinged everything around him with an aspect of blood. In one of his
political pamphlets, summoning all his energies, he depicts in fearful colors, the depraved
example of an execution--how it brutalized the race, and how it was the duty of man not to
commit murder on his fellow-man, in the name of the laws. The abolition of the first of these,
he stated that reformers should propose on the eve of a great political change.

In England, as in many other countries, capital punishment is now only employed on conviction
of murder or high treason. In Spain and Italy it was totally abolished, on the foundation of
their young republics. Thus have the labors of Shelley, and other reformers for the good of
humanity, aided to extinguish crime made law.

Cruelty to animals was another reform agitated by Shelley. His love for the animal kingdom
and hatred of blood-shedding, was so great, that he personally carried the passion to such
an extent as to become a vegetarian, and endeavored to induce others to be the same, in an
admirable argument of some length in the notes to "Queen Mab."

The subject of the Rights of Women is approached and expatiated on, perhaps learnedly, by individuals
utterly incompetent to deal with the question. Such persons, frequently armed with Sunday-school
platitudes, believing in the inferiority of women, consequent on the supposed fall, and doubtless
with heads paved with good intentions, as a certain place is said to be, do more harm than
good to the cause. This is not wanted, and is worse than useless. To found a real republic
on a solid basis, it can be legislated for only by removing the ancient landmarks by a gradual
process, and coming face to face with a new order of things, without bias or prejudice borrowed
from the past. Thus that noble woman, Mary Wolstonecraft, as well as John Stuart Mill, Percy
Bysshe Shelley, and numerous others, have treated this all-important question, which cannot
be shirked by the race. True reformers ask: What was the condition of the sex in the past?
Look down the revolving cycles and note. In ancient Egypt, woman in the upper classes was almost
the equal of man, and although, like Cleopatra, she could wield the sceptre, yet in the lower
her condition was wretched; in Asia, a mere slave and object of Zenana lust; in savagedom,
a beast of burthen.

Regard the incidents of a Jewish wooing, in which the woman had no voice, and of the marriage,
the infernal punishments for adultery, and the accounts of the seraglios of the Hebrew kings
equalled only by Turkish harems, and some of the passages in the inspired Book of Numbers,
for instance, in which the horrible truth is frequently too evident, and only equalled by the
fact that after lust had played out its passion, unfortunate women, taken in captivity, could,
by divine command, be turned adrift to rot or starve. In Christian Feudalism we find nothing
much better. If I have read history correctly, and I may be wrong--the upper-grade women in
mediaeval Europe, who were adored, not with love, but with lascivious and sensual worship,
by Christian knights and troubadours, and who, like criminals to the halter, were forced, rarely
with their own consent, into the arms of men they disliked or had never seen, or were placed
in conventual houses against their wills. Of the lower-grade women, I need only offer one example--and
that is sufficient to show their awful degradation; the French and German feudal lord had the
right of cuissage, or, in plain English, the embraces of his serf-retainer's bride on the marriage
night.

Shelley considered that in consequence of all this, men had forgotten their duties to the other
sex, and that even at the time at which he lived woman was still in great social bondage, improperly
educated, tied down by restrictions, and refused participation in the higher positions of labor.
He called not in vain, against the inequality of the sexes, and asserted that woman's position
must and should be altered by forgetting the tyranny of the past, and, be determined, for the
good of the future.

We should be rejoiced that eloquent exponents of the abominations of former ages, the evils
of the present, and the proper position of the future, are now hard at work. The "Women's Rights"
party is up teaching men their duties on every continent; in distant India, the Brahmo Somaj
is battling, not vainly, against the horrors of the Zenana, and in conservative England, which
has been stormed, and the forlorn hope is now taking possession of the citadel; everywhere
it is the same. Yes, woman, thanks to Shelley and the reformers, is about to be emancipated
and free; free to earn her living, how, where, and when she likes; the equal of man, who shall
no longer play such fantastic tricks as he did in the past, in proof of his dignity and superiority.

I now approach a very delicate portion of my essay: the question of the marriage relation.
By many it is scouted with much virtuous indignation, but I conceive that the liberal, who,
like too many, dare not discuss this matter in its broadest and widest aspects, should be stigmatized
as unworthy of the name. Christ is reported to have urged the admirers of his ethical system
to take up their cross and follow him, leaving father, mother, wife, children, and all they
may have--thus Shelley acted, and it bears as equally pregnant lessons to free thinkers as
it did to those Syrian fishermen. Oh, that liberals had as much "faith" in the truth, in the
efficacy of their cause, as the first Christians are said to have had in the teachings of that
Christ whom they regarded not as a Divinity, but as a son of God, as we to-day are sons of
God, of the most high! Oh, that we could carry that "faith" into our beliefs, and the determination
to be stopped at no obstacle which may bar the progress of truth, which must conquer in the end!

The favorite theme in the writings of Shelley is "Eros," love of the individual, of the race,
of nature, and in this he follows Christ, in whose system of Philosophy, Love is ever the pre-dominating
idea which permeates mankind with its beneficial effects, and will, when the bastard tinsel
with which the truths of the Nazarene are hidden, be replaced by that pure gold which it is
impossible to trace in the enunciations of any previous philosopher. This subject is always
present to Shelley, and he thus appeals in one of his poems to the

    "Great Spirit, deepest Love!
     Which rulest and dost move
     All things which live, and are."

In another place he inquires--

     "What is love? Ask him who lives, what is life? Ask him who
     adores, what is God?"

And in the same essay he describes love as

     "The bond and sanction which connects man with man, and with
     everything which exists."

