Long since I had perceived M. le Duc d'Orleans' mode of action.  At the first movements of
the Parliament, of the bastards, and of those who had usurped the name of nobility, I had warned
him.  I had done so again as soon as I saw the cadence and the harmony of the designs in progress.
I had pointed out to him their inevitable sequel; how easy it was to hinder them at the commencement;
how difficult after, especially for a person of his character and disposition.  But I was not
the man for such work as this.  I was the oldest, the most attached, the freest spoken of all
his servitors; I had given him the best proofs of this in the most critical times of his life,
and in the midst of his universal abandonment; the counsels I had offered him in these sad
days he had always found for his good; he was accustomed to repose in me the most complete
confidence; but, whatever opinion he might have of me, and of my truth and probity, he was
on his guard against what he called my warmth, and against the love I had for my dignity, so
attacked by the usurpations of the bastards, the designs of the Parliament, and the modern
fancies of a sham nobility.  As soon as I perceived his suspicions I told him so, and I added
that, content with having done my duty as citizen and as his servitor, I would say no more
on the subject.  I kept my word.  For more than a year I had not of myself opened my mouth
thereon.  If he was sometimes spoken to before me, and I could not keep quite silent without
being suspected of sulking or pique, I carelessly said something indefinite, with as little
meaning in it as possible, and calculated to make us drop the subject.

Judge of my surprise, therefore, when as I was working as usual one afternoon with the Regent,
he interrupted me to speak with bitterness of the Parliament.  I replied with my accustomed
coldness and pretended negligence, and continued my business.  He stopped me, and said that
he saw very well that I would not reply to him concerning the Parliament. I admitted it was
true, and added that he must long since have perceived this.  Pressed and pressed beyond measure,
I coldly remarked that he could not but remember what I had said to him of the Parliament both
before and after his accession to the regency, that other counsels had prevailed over mine,
and that finding my opinions were misinterpreted by him, I had resolved to hold my tongue,
and had done so.  As the subject was now reopened I reminded him of a prophecy I had uttered
long before, that he had missed the opportunity of governing the Parliament when he might have
done so with a frown, and that step by step he would allow himself to be conducted by his easy-going
disposition, until he found himself on the very verge of the abyss; that if he wished to recover
his position he must begin at once to retrace his steps, or lose his footing for ever!

Such strong words (from my mouth they had been rare of late), pronounced with a slow, firm
coldness, as though I were indifferent to the course he might adopt, made him feel how little
capable I believed him of vigorous and sustained action, and what trifling trouble I took to
make him adopt my views.  Dubois, Argenson, and Law had also spoken to him, urging him to take
strong measures against the Parliament; the effect of my speech was therefore marvellous.

It was indeed high time to do something, as I have before remarked. The Parliament, we found,
after passing its last decree, had named a commission to inquire into the financial edict;
this commission was working in the utmost secrecy; a number of witnesses had already been examined,
and preparations were quietly making to arrest Law some fine morning, and hang him three hours
after within the enclosure of the Palais de justice.

Immediately this fact became known, the Duc de la Force and Fagon (Councillor of State) went
to the Regent--'twas on the 19th of August, 1718--and spoke to him with such effect, that he
ordered them to assemble with Law that very day at my house in order to see what was to be
done. They came, in fact, and this was the first intimation I had that the Regent had begun
to feel the gravity of his position, and that he was ready to do something.  In this conference
at my house the firmness of Law, hitherto so great, was shaken so that tears escaped him. 
Arguments did not satisfy us at first, because the question could only be decided by force,
and we could not rely upon that of the Regent.  The safe- conduct with which Law was supplied
would not have stopped the Parliament an instant.  On every side we were embarrassed.  Law,
more dead than alive, knew not what to say; much less what to do.  His safety appeared to us
the most pressing matter to ensure.  If he had been taken it would have been all over with
him before the ordinary machinery of negotiation (delayed as it was likely to be by the weakness
of the Regent) could have been set in motion; certainly, before there would have been leisure
to think of better, or to send a regiment of guards to force open the Palais de justice; a
critical remedy at all times, and grievous to the last degree, even when it succeeds; frightful,
if instead of Law, only his suspended corpse had been found!

I advised Law, therefore, to retire to the Palais Royal, and occupy the chamber of Nancre,
his friend, then away in Spain.  Law breathed again at this suggestion (approved by de la Force
and Fagon), and put it in execution the moment he left my house.  He might have been kept in
safety at the Bank, but I thought the Palais Royal would be better: that his retirement there
would create more effect, and induce the Regent to hold firm to his purpose, besides allowing
his Royal Highness to see the financier whenever he pleased.

CHAPTER XCI

This done I proposed, and the others approved my proposition, that a Bed of Justice should
be held as the only means left by which the abrogation of the parliamentary decrees could be
registered.  But while our arguments were moving, I stopped them all short by a reflection
which came into my mind.  I represented to my guests that the Duc du Maine was in secret the
principal leader of the Parliament, and was closely allied with Marechal de Villeroy; that
both would oppose might and main the assembling of a Bed of justice, so contrary to their views,
to their schemes, to their projects; that to hinder it they, as guardians of the young King,
would plead on his behalf, the heat, which was in fact extreme, the fear of the crowd, of the
fatigue, of the bad air; that they would assume a pathetic tone in speaking of the King's health,
calculated to embarrass the Regent; that if he persisted they would protest against everything
which might happen to His Majesty; declare, perhaps, that in order not to share the blame,
they would not accompany him; that the King, prepared by them, would grow frightened, perhaps,
and would not go to the Parliament without them; that then all would be lost, and the powerlessness
of the Regent, so clearly manifested, might rapidly lead to the most disastrous results.

These remarks stopped short our arguments, but I had not started objections without being prepared
with a remedy for them.  I said, "Let the Bed of justice be held at the Tuileries; let it be
kept a profound secret until the very morning it is to take place; and let those who are to
attend it be told so only a few hours before they are to assemble. By these means no time will
be allowed for anybody to object to the proceeding, to plead the health of the King, the heat
of the weather, or to interfere with the arrangement of the troops which it will be necessary
to make."

We stopped at this: Law went away, and I dictated to Fagon the full details of my scheme, by
which secrecy was to be ensured and all obstacles provided against.  We finished about nine
o'clock in the evening, and I counselled Fagon to carry what he had written to the Abbe Dubois,
who had just returned from England with new credit over the mind of his master.

The next day I repaired to the Palais Royal about four o'clock.  A moment after La Vrilliere
came and relieved me of the company of Grancey and Broglio, two roues, whom I had found in
the grand cabinet, in the cool, familiarly, without wigs.  When M. le Duc d'Orleans was free
he led me into the cabinet, behind the grand salon, by the Rue de Richelieu, and on entering
said he was at the crisis of his regency, and that everything was needed in order to sustain
him on this occasion.  He added that he was resolved to strike a heavy blow at the Parliament;
that he much approved my proposition respecting the Bed of justice at the Tuileries, and that
it would be held exactly as I had suggested.

I was delighted at his animation, and at the firmness he appeared to possess, and after having
well discussed with him all the inconveniences of my plan, and their remedy, we came at last
to a very important matter, the mechanical means, so to speak, by which that plan was to be
put in force.  There was one thing to be provided for, which may appear an exceedingly insignificant
matter, but which in truth was of no light importance.  When a Bed of justice is held, seats
one above another must be provided for those who take part in it.  No room in the Tuileries
possessed such seats and how erect them without noise, without exciting remarks, without causing
inquiries and suspicions, which must inevitably lead to the discovery and perhaps thereby to
the failure of our project? I had not forgotten this difficulty, however, and I said to the
Regent I would go in secret to Fontanieu, who controlled the crown furniture, explain all to
him, and arrange matters with him so that these seats should be erected at the very last moment,
in time for our purpose, but too late to supply information that could be made use of by our
enemies. I hurried off accordingly, as soon as I could get away, in search of Fontanieu.

I had already had some relations with him, for he had married his daughter to the son of the
sister of my brother-in-law, M. de Lauzun. I had done him some little service, and had therefore
every reason to expect he would serve me on this occasion.  Judge of my annoyance when upon
reaching his house I learned that he had gone almost to the other end of the town, to the Marais,
to conduct a suit at law, in which Monsieur and Madame de Lauzun were concerned, respecting
an estate at Rondon they claimed!

The porter seeing me so vexed at being obliged to journey so far in search of Fontanieu, said,
that if I would go and speak to Madame Fontanieu, he would see if his master was not still
in the neighbourhood, at a place he intended to visit before going to the Marais.  I acted
upon this suggestion and went to Madame Fontanieu, whom I found alone.  I was forced to talk
to her of the suit of Monsieur and Madame de Lauzun, which I pretended was the business I came
upon, and cruelly did I rack my brains to say enough to keep up the conversation.  When Fontanieu
arrived, for he was soon found, fortunately, I was thrown into another embarrassment, for I
had all the pains in the world to get away from Madame Fontanieu, who, aided by her husband,
begged me not to take the trouble to descend but to discuss the subject where I was as she
was as well informed upon the case as he, I thought once or twice I should never escape her.
At last, however, I led away Fontanieu, by dint of compliments to his wife, in which I expressed
my unwillingness to weary her with this affair.

