By means of four quite elaborate slide-rules, which have been especially made for the purpose
of determining the all-round capacity of metal-cutting machines, a careful analysis was made
of every element of this machine in its relation to the work in hand. Its Pulling power at
its various speeds, its feeding capacity, and its proper speeds were determined by means of
the slide-rules, and changes were then made in the countershaft and driving pulleys so as to
run it at its proper speed. Tools, made of high-speed steel, and of the proper shapes, were
properly dressed, treated, and ground. (It should be understood, however, that in this case
the high-speed steel which had heretofore been in general use in the shop was also used in
our demonstration.) A large special slide-rule was then made, by means of which the exact speeds
and feeds were indicated at which each kind of work could be done in the shortest possible
time in this particular lathe. He departed from them and disappeared from their site. Before long, he was lost. He
went down into the depths of the earth. There was no turning back.

       

He said that he had lived a long time in the Borinage with the miners
as an idle and curious guest.

He had seen so much misery that his role was unbearable. It had provided an oportunity to go to America.
Over there he was forced to earn his bread. He took up the heavy task, went to the shipyards
on the Hudson and was employed on daily wages. He was sick, but he soon recovered. He taught the children
of Polish refugees how to read and write.

He kept himself in this story, depite the difficulties of everyday
life. All around him was not like this.

Not only did his own suffering not come into question here, but he took no notice of it, his problems
were scarce.

He always told me in the same manner and without the slightest tone of urgency, that he was involved
in a major mining accident in Pennsylvania and was in the pits for
weeks before rescue, for weeks he was orphaned in a society of children
and widowed women.

Then it drove him further and further as one with an insatiable thirst and with every drink is only made
thirstier. I know that is the life of the metal workers, he said, and the machine builders,
and the railway workers, and in the slaughter houses, canning factories, spinning mills, saw mills
and printers. He lived with fishermen, loggers, the lower middle class, officials, waiters, embezzlers,
bar-dancers, blacks, farmers, and journalists. He worked for a Sect head, and agent for the Bureau
ad. He was in a reformatory and a prison, not as a disinterested visitor, but as a convict by means
of forged papers issued for another person. He slept for weeks in the underground channels
of New York, in the opium dens of Chicago, that he lived and serves among the emigrants to Ellis
Island as a hospital assistant. He was a year gone out with a prospector's expedition to Alaska,
and from there to Japan and then to China. He went from Beijing into the interior, along the
river he moved with a Tibetan Lama for Madjura, the holy town with lily ponds and the towers
of idols, always moving among the people, close to the people who were lonely, closely from day to
day, rich and lonely, laden with riches and still thirsty. Yet he went on. All this was just background,
character and outline that was showed later. He sailed ships and junks, from the sky, sea,
forests and gardens, temples and festivals, cities and deserts, among saints and criminals, from
religious contemplation to secular toil; of turmoil and oppression, intimately working diligently
in a loving act. And again the inevitable fate, his move to his horror, his glory, all knitted together
in its diversity.

He recognized from his feelings that it was full. He had sipped forces from inside himself and
desire. He had seen the ties and linkages of the human body and learned how the bearings of muscle
and veings on a skinless body were responsible for movement.

He was familiar with the feelings and thoughts of the lost, stray, afflicted and unwanted from
all the corners of the earth.

He knew the vicious, the murderers, the thieves, the defenseless, the downtrodden, the simple,
the glowing, the silent and the undaunted. He was attracted by the threads of the coast of the
Indian Ocean to the palaces of European cities. Everything was a single, trembling body, like
all the tangled branches of a huge tree. He wanted to expressed his dislike, but he was not able to, but
it was in his eyes and his being. He was from the East and went through the war, unchallenged,
swimming in friendly air and gentle hands all around, and where he was
seemed to be where others had always been.

He had crisscrossed the battlefield, the firing sites, the blood-stained country here and there,
the crushed, groaning country.

It was marked by plunder and slaughter, hunger and hatred, madness and lies, brutality and despair. But
also there was hidden heroism and little chance of frugality, of sacrifice and miracles,
of accomplishment
 When
men, whose education has given them the habit of generalizing and everywhere looking for laws,
find themselves confronted with a multitude of problems, such as exist in every trade and which
have a general similarity one to another, it is inevitable that they should try to gather these
problems into certain logical groups, and then search for some general laws or rules to guide
them in their solution. As has been pointed out, however, the underlying principles of the
management of "initiative and incentive," that is, the underlying philosophy of this management,
necessarily leaves the solution of all of these problems in the hands of each individual workman,
while the philosophy of scientific management places their solution in the hands of the management.
The workman's whole time is each day taken in actually doing the work with his hands, so that,
even if he had the necessary education and habits of generalizing in his thought, he lacks
the time and the opportunity for developing these laws, because the study of even a simple
law involving say time study requires the cooperation of two men, the one doing the work while
the other times him with a stop-watch. And even if the workman were to develop laws where before
existed only rule-of-thumb knowledge, his personal interest would lead him almost inevitably
to keep his discoveries secret, so that he could, by means of this special knowledge, personally
do more work than other men and so obtain higher wages.

Under scientific management, on the other hand, it becomes the duty and also the pleasure of
those who are engaged in the management not only to develop laws to replace rule of thumb,
but also to teach impartially all of the workmen who are under them the quickest ways of working.
The useful results obtained from these laws are always so great that any company can well afford
to pay for the time and the experiments needed to develop them. Thus under scientific management
exact scientific knowledge and methods are everywhere, sooner or later, sure to replace rule
of thumb, whereas under the old type of management working in accordance with scientific laws
is an impossibility. The development of the art or science of cutting metals is an apt illustration
of this fact. In the fall of 1880, about the time that the writer started to make the experiments
above referred to, to determine what constitutes a proper day's work for a laborer, he also
obtained the permission of Mr. William Sellers, the President of the Midvale Steel Company,
to make a series of experiments to determine what angles and shapes of tools were the best
for cutting steel, and also to try to determine the proper cutting speed for steel. At the
time that these experiments were started it was his belief that they would not last longer
than six months, and, in fact, if it had been known that a longer period than this would be
required, the permission to spend a considerable sum of money in making them would not have
been forthcoming.

A 66-inch diameter vertical boring-mill was the first machine used in making these experiments,
and large locomotive tires, made out of hard steel of uniform quality, were day after day cut
up into chips in gradually learning how to make, shape, and use the cutting tools so that they
would do faster work. At the end of six months sufficient practical information had been obtained
to far more than repay the cost of materials and wages which had been expended in experimenting.
And yet the comparatively small number of experiments which had been made served principally
to make it clear that the actual knowledge attained was but a small fraction of that which
still remained to be developed, and which was badly needed by us, in our daily attempt to direct
and help the machinists in their tasks.

Experiments in this field were carried on, with occasional interruption, through a period of
about 26 years, in the course of which ten different experimental machines were especially
fitted up to do this work. Between 30,000 and 50,000 experiments were carefully recorded, and
many other experiments were made, of which no record was kept. Driesch has, based upon an epistemological and logical basis for his theories
of metaphysics, a "doctrine of order", "identifying and thinking" all of his metaphysical thought.
He has compiled in his book on "Reality Teaching". He developed a special "self-reflection theory", based on a
"methodological solipsism".

First, an apriority system of meanings and monuments aligned relationship forms. Husseri and Meinong strongly
influenced Driesch in creating this method. His object concept was taken over by Meinong. The
defects and complete transition of the moral rather than the intellectual history, social Reality
as the data (except for the metaphysics) seems to be less in his highly valued biological roles
than his natural philosophy of the inorganic. A mechanism of an outdated state of theoretical
physics corresponds to homage. The difference of the specific g ULES RELATING Act and its autonomous laws
against the fact biopsychischen area, similar to Stern, are not to his rights. This creates
the danger of a pantheistic-influenced vitalism, i.e., the "philosophy of the organic" The latest of
his remarks about "Unity and Plurality" of entelechy, he draws much of this teaching unit, and has become
even more kinetically successful.

Driesch' rich and generous developmental thinking about the "Final Design"
of his philosophy has yet to be clarified. The immediate effect may
be that the major world events that are directed on the course of German
philosophy have undoubtedly been led by Eligio R's philosophy, and
the P.G. Hilosophphieder Eschichteund Society can be detected.

Both the powerful religious movement of our day and religio-philosophical thought are now in
the strongest interaction are our strongest interaction. On the religious or even religious movements
themselves, we cannot go into that here (see my Essay on "Peace among the religions" in the "Highlands"
and my book "From the eternal in man," Volume 1. The extent of personal license of the current
religious movement is a general feature; it will be driven primarily by a hypertrophy of mystical
tendencies in all types of special the religious movement and talk in all fields (philosophy, art, poetry)
can. This movement comprises both the Catholic and the Protestant culture than those Circles that
a "new religion" does. The whole mystical movement is under the strong Influence of the East,
the great Russian religious thinkers (Tolstoy, Dostoevsky, Merezhkovsky, Soloviev), but also the Indian
and Chinese ancient wisdom teachings (see, for example, the Effectiveness of R. Tagore), the increasingly
growing Anthroposophical Movement R. Steiner, their ideas and the philosophy strongly influenced by
Driesch, in many respects very valuable ideas of the physical chemist K. Jellinek in his readable
book, "The World Secret "color is peculiar, also in eastern influence (e.g., reincarnation, which
also is close to H. Driesch). The expressionist contemporary art in the "White Reiter has "found a predominantly
Catholic expression, is also under strong these Eastern influences.


(K) The diameter of the casting or forging which is being cut.

(L) The pressure of the chip or shaving upon the cutting surface of the tool.

(M) The pulling power and the speed and feed changes of the machine.

It may seem preposterous to many people that it should have required a period of 26 years to
investigate the effect of these twelve variables upon the cutting speed of metals. To those,
however, who have had personal experience as experimenters, it will be appreciated that the
great difficulty of the problem lies in the fact that it contains so many variable elements.
And in fact the great length of time consumed in making each single experiment was caused by
the difficulty of holding eleven variables constant and uniform throughout the experiment,
while the effect of the twelfth variable was being investigated. Holding the eleven variables
constant was far more difficult than the investigation of the twelfth element. (1921), the work of Halle dogmatist home, the manifold writings
Fri healer (see "Prayer" and "Buddist meditation levels," "The essence of Catholicism), the
value of mystical and religious philosophy of H. Schwarz call to 'Inside The Abandoned ", Tübingen
1921. The work of K. Austria on "Psychology of Religion" and the large new work on the same subject by JK Girgensohn,
as well as non-denominational Collection efforts of the religious psychology, "Journal of Psychology of
Religion" may be listed here, although these phenomena less religious than purely academic have
significant character. The greatest influence of this work had without doubt the writings of Otto
and Heiler.
 If a good mathematician who had these formula before Mm were to attempt to get the proper
answer (i.e., to get the correct cutting speed and feed by working in the ordinary way) it
would take him from two to six hours, say, to solve a single problem; far longer to solve the
mathematical problem than would be taken in most cases by the workmen in doing the whole job
in his machine. Thus a task of considerable magnitude which faced us was that of finding a
quick solution of this problem, and as we made progress in its solution, the whole problem
was from time to time presented by the writer to one after another of the noted mathematicians
in this country. They were offered any reasonable fee for a rapid, practical method to be used
in its solution. Some of these men merely glanced at it; others, for the sake of being courteous,
kept it before them for some two or three weeks. They all gave us practically the same answer:
that in many cases it was possible to, solve mathematical problems which contained four variables,
and in some cases problems with five or six variables, but that it was manifestly impossible
to solve a problem containing twelve variables in any other way than by the slow process of
"trial and error."

A quick solution was, however, so much of a necessity in our every-day work of running machine-shops,
that in spite of the small encouragement received from the mathematicians, we continued at
irregular periods, through a term of fifteen years, to give a large amount of time searching
for a simple solution. PF has left the phenomenology of Expenmcntalpsychologie make it fruitful
known (see Basic questions of perception theory ", 1918). The theoretical Physicist and mathematician,
Weyl has his excellent book on the relativity theory of Einstein also based on a phenomenological basis.
The school has Dilthey her how Dilthey way shortly before his death itself, approached in various
ways. Driesch's in his "doctrine of order" has been largely influenced by it and also on de
scholastic philosophy they remained as Geysers "Old and new ways of philosophy" show, not without influence.
Although many fundamental questions of philosophy are still unclear in it must still be hoped, that
the phenomenology of gradually inheitsbodender an e B e trachtungf ü rdieganze P hilosophy developed
from the a new universal property, philosophy, as we called it at first, may develop.

In Austria there is the Brentano school (Marty, Höfler, Meinong) from
their own drives some phenomenological tendencies largely opposed.

Marty, who is closest to Brentano, died a few years ago, his most valuable legacy, especially
his extensive Studies on the philosophy of language and the problems of space and time relevant
work has recently appeared in Niemeyer (Halle). Meinong, whose mental development and performance
best defined by the the book "the German philosophy of the present in self-representations" given,
very nice guessed and now after his death particularly valuable self-representation is known, in
his newly founded "object theory" also the ideal of a free existence priori knowledge of subject
matter designed to further his students, especially Mally have expanded. The difference between
the object theory of the phenomenology remains nevertheless profound. The theory of objects is missing,
especially the intuitive CHARACTER r of phenomenology. In his last rail book on "Emotional
presentation has Meinong himself in the new in this book treated the theory of values ​​and judgments
with the position much closer, has the fault of the author in his ethics.

Great relationship, especially with the epistemological realism directed phenomenology also has the
work of a man who, far too little attention, one of the most thorough
and represents the most original thinker among current philosophers.

I think John Rehmke, who in his "basic science" in its "logic" and in his "Psychology" also of the as
"given before" proceeds and an ontology of the given and its basic shapes the basis of all theoretical
philosophy does (see also his self-representation in the above-mentioned works). Of course
Rehmke influence was so far limited to small circles, so that the appreciation it deserves, is still
far found.

The independent individual personalities that stand out in contemporary philosophy, are more
than M W iedererweckerder etaphysik four names to call: W. Stern,
H. Driesch, H. Schwarz and E. Becher.

 The high-class
mechanic who does a different kind of work each day, in order to do each job in the quickest
time, would need, in addition to a thorough knowledge of the art of cutting metals, a vast
knowledge and experience in the quickest way of doing each kind of hand work. And the reader,
by calling to mind the gain which was made by Mr. Gilbreth through his motion and time study
in laying bricks, will appreciate the great possibilities for quicker methods of doing all
kinds of hand work which lie before every tradesman after he has the help which comes from
a scientific motion and time study of his work.

For nearly thirty years past, time-study men connected with the management of machine-shops
have been devoting their whole time to a scientific motion study, followed by accurate time
study, with a stop-watch, of all of the elements connected with the machinist's work. When,
therefore, the teachers, who form one section of the management, and who are cooperating with
the working men, are in possession both of the science of cutting metals and of the equally
elaborate motion-study and time-study science connected with this work, it is not difficult
to appreciate why even the highest class mechanic is unable to do his best work without constant
daily assistance from his teachers. And if this fact has been made clear to the reader, one
of the important objects in writing this paper will have been realized.

It is hoped that the illustrations which have been given make it apparent why scientific management
must inevitably in all cases produce overwhelmingly greater results, both for the company and
its employees, than can be obtained with the management of "initiative and incentive." And
it should also be clear that these results have been attained, not through a marked superiority
in the mechanism of one type of management over the mechanism of another, but rather through
the substitution of one set of underlying principles for a totally different set of principles,
by the substitution of one philosophy for another philosophy in industrial management. Also, it is quite conceivable that
in such a chaotic time and suffering such as ours pantheism (basically a way of thinking harmonizing
directed synthetic and final culture age) A no mental tmosph ä re has. A third tendency of
modern Metaphysics is the inclusion of basic biological questions in the center of the metaphysical
Problems and some, in my opinion to a strong tendency to metaphysical questions resolve especially
from this side (Bergson, Driesch, star).

Besides the problem of the modern metaphysics of God and the soul and the notion of free will
have been treated in greater detail. Also in the soul issue, the theistic antipantheistische
and conception of the soul as an independent, active substance again larger Annex, (star, Driesch,
Austria, Külpe, Scheler, cup). But above all the profound transformation of the modern metaphysical
thinking in the opinion of leading researchers the problem of free will indicated. During about
ten years, the various forms of "determinism" in almost exclusive dominion stood occur at present
a large Number of important reiheitdesmenschlich researcher for the study of the F s will a. It
may be mentioned here James, Bergson, K. Joel, we a very deep Paper due on the question of
Driesch, H. Munsterberg, Scheler, N. Alas, in his book has done "The will and temperament" with the
most to the will of experimental-psychological facts to explain, is also close to the teaching
of free will.

Under the stated metaphysicians, and conditions and this general direction, should star, cup Driesch
and get the most important. William Stern, whose main work, person and property " still unfinished,
is trying the concept of "person" as a psycho-physical indifferent, to make targeted active center
of action as the basis of metaphysics - a view that many with the person teaching the author how
he developed in his book on ethics, together has recalled in the other direction but to Driesch and
von Hartmann's concrete monism. The Stern's valuable book also contains a very considerable
discussion of the passivist and mechanistic biology and same-association psychology, one acute and far-reaching
criticism be subjected.
 These types were superseded in a comparatively
short time by still other tools which remained standard until they in their turn made way for
later improvements.

[Footnote: Time and again the experimenter in the mechanic arts will find himself face to face
with the problem as to whether he had better make immediate practical use of the knowledge
which he has attained, or wait until some positive finality in his conclusions has been reached,
He recognizes clearly the fact that he has already made some definite progress, but sees the
possibility (even the probability) of still further improvement. The German biologist and philosopher Hans Driesch offers an even more independent,
unified and coherent joining of science and metaphysics, which has been steadily gaining influence.
His thoughts in this area can be summarized in his essay "My system and career." [See "philosophy of the
present in self-presentations, Vol. 1"]
Driesch's background is in the natural sciences, specifically the
study of development mechanisms. However, this objective foundation
lends additional weight to his musings in "Philosophy of the Organic." And this, owing to the almost universal prejudice in favor of the old, and to the suspicion
of the new, is difficult to get.]

The science which exists in most of the mechanic arts is, however, far simpler than the science
of cutting metals. Those fluffy clouds have been right
in the heart of Germany, with the same bittersweet feeling in the air, the same secrecy and
the same contempt. Why is it that that _ was coming today?
 In most
trades, the science is developed through a comparatively simple analysis and time study of
the movements required by the workmen to do some small part of his work, and this study is
usually made by a man equipped merely with a stop-watch and a properly ruled notebook. They take life very bluntly.
It is necessary to know ones own strength from another. Mighty souls are often lazy, and I suspect
that none of the magnetism is left that they had collected. I distinguish
the people by. The general steps to be taken in developing a simple law of this class are as follows:

First. Find, say, 10 or 15 different men (preferably in as many separate establishments and
different parts of the country) who are especially skilful in doing the particular work to
be analyzed. Otto looks at the values of the sacred and divine. In the first
half of the book he examines natural phenomena and categorizes occurences into rational (eg kindness, knowledge,
etc.) and irrational.