Formerly the Gladiolus was seldom raised from seed, probably because the seed obtainable was
not worth sowing. Now it is saved with so much care that it will give a splendid display of
flowers, a large proportion of which will be equal to named sorts, and some may show a decided
advance.

The use of large pots--the 32-size will answer--is advantageous for many reasons, and they
should be either new or scrupulously clean, for they will have to remain unchanged for many
months, so that a fair start is the more necessary. For the same reason special care should
be taken to insure free drainage. Over the usual crocks place a layer of dry moss, and fill
with a compost of fibrous loam and leaf-mould in equal parts, with sufficient sharp sand added
to make it thoroughly porous. Press the soil firmly into the pots, making the surface quite
even, and in February dibble the seeds separately about an inch apart, and half an inch deep.
This will render it needless to disturb the seedlings during the first season. Put the seed-pots
in a steady temperature not exceeding 65° or 70°. After watering, it will help to retain the
moisture if the top of each pot is covered with a layer of =old= moss, until the plants show.
When the seedlings are about an inch high remove to a lower temperature, and begin to harden
off by giving air on suitable occasions. Take care, however, that in the process no check is
given to growth. Soon after the middle of May the seedlings should be able to bear full exposure,
and it will then be time to renew the surface soil. Gently remove the upper layer, and replace
it with rotten cow-manure, or some other rich dressing. Water must be given regularly until
about midsummer, when the pots may be plunged to the rim in a shady border, and this will keep
them tolerably moist until, in September, the seedlings begin to ripen off, which they must
be allowed to do. When the leaves have died down, shake out the bulbs and place them on a shelf
to dry. A mixture of equal parts of peat and pine sawdust, placed in a box or seed-pan, will
make the best possible store for them; the box or seed-pan to be kept in any spot which is
safe from heat and frost. After about six weeks, each bulb should be examined, and decayed
specimens removed. If any of them have commenced growing, pot them and place in a pit or greenhouse.
In March take the bulbs out of store, pot each one singly, and prepare for planting out. The
transfer to the open must not be made until the danger of frost is past, even though it be
necessary to wait until the first week of June.

Further remarks on Gladiolus will be found at page 329, under 'The Culture of Flowering Bulbs.'

==GLOXINIA==

==Tender perennial==

Gloxinias can now be flowered in the most satisfactory manner within six months from the date
of sowing seed. Hence there is no longer the least temptation to propagate these plants by
the lengthy and troublesome method formerly in vogue, especially as seedlings raised from a
first-class strain produce flowers of the finest quality, both as to form and style of growth.
One great advantage to be obtained from seedlings is an almost endless variety of colour, for
the careful hybridisation of the choicest flowers not only perpetuates those colours, but yields
other fine shades also. Those who have never seen a large and well-grown collection of seedling
Gloxinias have yet to witness one of the most striking displays of floral beauty.

Quite as much has been done for the foliage of the Gloxinia as for its flower, and the best
strains now produce grand leaves which are reflexed in such a manner as almost to hide the
pot, so that the foliage presents an extremely ornamental appearance.

By successive sowings and judicious management it is possible to flower Gloxinias almost the
year through. The most important months for sowing seed are January, February, and March, and
to secure an early display in the following spring some growers sow again in June or July.

The soil most suited to Gloxinias is a light porous compost of fibrous loam. If this is not
obtainable, leaf-mould will answer, mixed with peat and silver sand in about equal parts. New
pots are advisable, or old ones must be thoroughly cleansed, and free drainage is essential
to success. Fill the pots to within half an inch of the top. Sow thinly, and slightly cover
the seed with very fine soil. Place the pots in a warm, moist position, carefully shading from
the sun. A light sprinkling of water daily will be necessary. Immediately some plants are large
enough for shifting, lift them tenderly from the seed-pot, so as scarcely to disturb the rest,
and prick off into large 60-pots in which the soil has a convex surface. Follow this process
as plants become ready until all the seedlings have been transferred. When potting on allow
the leaves to rest on the soil, but avoid covering the hearts. On the first warm day give air
on the leeward side of the house, briefly at first, and increase the time as the plants become
established. A clear space between the plants is necessary to prevent the leaves of neighbours
from meeting. The final shift should be into 48-pots, unless extra fine specimens are required,
and then one or two sizes larger may be used. An occasional dose of weak manure water will
prove beneficial, taking care that the foliage is not wetted. A moist atmosphere, with the
temperature at about 60° to 65°, greatly facilitates the growth of Gloxinias. With care, however,
they may be well grown in greenhouses and pits heated by hot water. Although the plants love
a humid atmosphere while growing, this ceases to be an advantage, and, in fact, becomes injurious
when the flowers begin to expand. At that time, also, the manure water should be discontinued.

Under 'The Culture of Flowering Bulbs,' page 331, further instructions are given.

==GODETIA==

==Hardy annual==

So far as the culture of Godetias is concerned, the usual spring sowing and the regular treatment
of hardy annuals will satisfy those who are content with a display entailing the least possible
trouble. But the Godetia is no ordinary annual. The plants flower with such amazing profusion,
and the colours are so magnificent, that those who wish to produce striking effects in beds
or borders in July and August will find Godetias of the highest value. All the varieties come
perfectly true to colour and admit of numerous contrasts and harmonies. As an example, we suggest
the following combination for a long border, or beside a carriage drive. Sow two rows of Alyssum
minimum, allowing twelve inches between the rows; one row of Dwarf Pink Godetia fifteen inches
from the Alyssum; two rows of G. Dwarf Duchess of Albany eighteen inches apart; one row of
G. Scarlet Queen eighteen inches from the preceding variety, and one row of Double Rose at
the back. The result will astonish those who have not previously seen a really fine exposition
of this flower. Many other combinations will occur to those who carefully study colour schemes.

There are few annuals more greatly valued for cutting than the taller varieties of Godetia.
These mainly produce double flowers in sprays two feet or more in length which develop into
full beauty after being placed in water.

March and April are the months for sowing seed in the open for a summer display, and September
for spring flowering. Good effects, however, are obtained by raising a sufficient number of
plants in boxes and pricking off in readiness for putting out after bulbs and spring bedders
have been cleared away. Under this practice there need not be a blank or a defective specimen.

Dwarf Godetias make exceedingly symmetrical and attractive pot plants. For this purpose sow
seed in October in pans and place them in a temperature of 55° until the seedlings appear,
then remove to a cooler place. As soon as possible prick off three in each 48-pot and when
established grow on during winter in cold frames, giving air daily except in frosty weather,
when the frames must remain closed and can be protected with whatever covering may be at hand.
Here it may be well to point out that even when touched by frost the plants will recover if
they are shaded from the sun's rays until the pots are quite clear of frost. Godetias flowered
in pots make bright groups in conservatories, and occasionally do good service where failures
occur in beds.

==GREVILLEA ROBUSTA==

==Australian Oak. Greenhouse shrub==

In its native country, New South Wales, this is a stately tree. Here it is grown as a pot plant,
and the finely cut, drooping, fern-like foliage produces one of the most graceful decorative
subjects we possess. Its value is enhanced by the fact that it withstands the baneful influences
of gas, dust, and changes of temperature better than the majority of table plants.

Seedlings are easily raised by those who can exercise patience; and afterwards the simplest
cool culture will suffice to grow handsome specimens. But we do not know any seed--not even
the Auricula--which takes more time and is so capricious in germinating. In all cases where
seed is sown in fairly rich soil, which has to be kept constantly moist and undisturbed for
a long period, there is a tendency to sourness, especially on the surface. Free drainage will
do something towards preventing this. Another aid in the same direction is to cover the seed
with a layer of sand, and the sand with a thin coating of ordinary potting soil. When the surface
becomes covered with moss, the coating of soil can be gently removed down to the sand, and
be replaced with fresh earth, without detriment to the seeds.

Sow at any time of the year, in 48-sized pots filled with rather firm soil; and as the seedlings
straggle through and show two pairs of leaves, pot them off singly, and give the shelter of
a close pit or frame until they become established. They must not be allowed to suffer for
lack of water, but there is no necessity to give them manure water at any stage of growth.
An occasional re-potting is the only other attention they will require until they reach the
final size, and the pots need not then be large.

==HOLLYHOCK==

==Althæa rosea. Hardy perennial==

Generations of unnatural treatment had so debilitated the Hollyhock that disease threatened
to banish it from our gardens. Just at the critical time it was discovered that the plant could
be grown and satisfactorily flowered from seed. Florists at once turned their attention to
the production of seed worth growing, and with marked success. The best strains may now be
relied on to produce a large proportion of perfectly formed double flowers, imposing in size,
colour, and substance. The seedlings also possess a constitution capable of withstanding the
deadly =Puccinia malvacearum=, and there is no longer a danger that this stately plant will
become merely one of the pleasures of memory.

In growing the Hollyhock it is necessary to remember that a large amount of vegetable tissue
has to be produced within a brief period, so that the treatment throughout its career should
be exceptionally liberal. Some gardeners are successful in flowering Hollyhocks as annuals.
Where this course is adopted it is usual to sow in January in well-drained pots or seed-pans
filled with rich soil freely mixed with sand, covering the seed with a slight dusting of fine
earth. A temperature of 65° or 70° is necessary, and in about a fortnight the plants should
attain a height of one inch, when they will be ready for pricking off round the edges of 4-1/2-inch
pots, filled with a good porous compost. Put the seedlings in so that the first leaves just
touch the surface. At the beginning of March transfer singly to thumb pots, and immediately
the roots take hold remove to pits or frames, where they can be exposed to genial showers and
be gradually hardened. Defer the planting out until the weather is quite warm and settled.

The shrubbery border is the natural position for the Hollyhock, but the regular occupants keep
the soil poor, and for such a rapid-growing plant as we are now considering there is obviously
all the greater need for deep digging and liberal manuring. If put out during dry weather,
complete the operation with a soaking of water, and repeat this twice a week until rain falls.
Give each plant a clear space of three or four feet to afford easy access for staking and watering.
By midsummer offshoots will begin to push through the soil. The removal of these will throw
all the strength of the plant into one stem. To insure its safety a strong stake will be required,
which should be firmly driven into the ground, and rise six or seven feet above it. In case
of an accident at any time to the central stem the hope of flowers for that year is gone, and
it is therefore worth some pains to prevent a mishap. The tying must be done with judgment,
and as the plants increase in size an occasional inspection will save the stems from being
cut. Several inches of half-decayed cow-manure placed round the stems, with a saucer-like hollow
in the centre to retain water, will be helpful to the roots, and if the flowers are intended
for exhibition, the treatment can scarcely be too generous.

It is, however, easy to grow and flower Hollyhocks without the aid of artificial heat. On a
south border in June prepare drills about two inches deep and a foot apart. Place an inch of
rich sifted soil in each drill, and upon this sow the seed very thinly, covering it about a
quarter of an inch. If the weather be dry, give a gentle soaking of water, and finish with
a dusting of soot to prevent vermin from eating the seedlings. Thin the plants to six inches
apart, and they may remain in the seed-rows until the end of September. Whether they are then
transplanted straight to blooming quarters, or put into a cold frame for the winter, depends
on soil and climate. In the southern counties, and on light land, it will generally be safe
to winter Hollyhocks in the open, with merely a shelter of dry fern or litter. But in heavy
loam or clay the risk is too great, and the cold frame must be resorted to. In this they will
be secure, and can be ventilated as weather permits. As the season advances give more air,
until they are planted out in May. Seed may also be sown in pans in July or August, the seedlings
being transferred in due course to pots for the winter. The protection of a frame will suffice,
provided that frost is kept away, and the plants may be put out in spring as already advised.

==IMPATIENS==

==Sultan's Balsam. Tender perennial==

Early sowing should be avoided for two reasons. The seed germinates but slowly in dull weather,
and the seedlings when raised are almost certain to damp off. We do not advise a start before
March, and not until April unless a steady heat of 60° or 65° can be maintained. Sow in well-drained
pots, filled with soil composed of two parts of turfy loam and one part of leaf-soil, with
very little sand added. The seedlings are exceedingly brittle at the outset, and re-potting
should not be attempted until they are about an inch high. Even then they need delicate handling,
and after the task is accomplished they should be promptly placed in a warm frame or propagating
pit for a few days. In June or July the plants should reach 48-sized pots, but they must not
be transferred to the conservatory without careful hardening, or the whole of the flowers will
fall. =I. Holstii= also succeeds well when bedded out in summer in the same manner as Begonias.

==JACOBEA--=see= SENECIO==

==KOCHIA TRICHOPHYLLA==

==Half-hardy annual==

This remarkable variety of =K. scoparia= is a miniature annual shrub, which is also known as
Summer Cypress, or Belvidere. It is singularly attractive, of rapid growth and graceful habit.
In a very brief time the finely cut foliage forms a compact cylindrical plant, beautifully
domed at the top, and the tender green changes to a rich russet-crimson in autumn.

Seed may be sown in slight heat during February or March to provide early plants for pots,
or for setting out in the open immediately the bedding season commences. It is important not
to crowd the seedlings, and every precaution should be taken to prevent them from becoming
thin, leggy, or wanting in symmetry. Each plant must be allowed sufficient space to develop
equally all round. An April sowing can be made in the open where the plants are intended to
remain, and beyond regular thinning they will give very little trouble.

As a conspicuous dot plant in beds this Kochia is extremely useful, or it can be massed in
borders, and it also forms an admirable dividing line in the flower garden. For the decoration
of conservatories a number should be specially reserved. Specimens may be employed with striking
effect on flights of steps, in halls, and many other positions where a plant of perfect outline
will serve as an ornament. Height, 2 to 3 feet.

==LARKSPUR==

==Hardy annual==

The cultivation of the annual Delphiniums, more familiarly known as Larkspurs, is so simple
in character that it calls for little comment. But these handsome subjects are so widely grown,
and so greatly appreciated, that they are fully deserving of special mention here. The taller
varieties, of which the Stock-flowered strain is the most popular, are best grown in large
beds, borders and shrubberies, and the dwarfer kinds in small beds. Apart from their usefulness
in the garden, however, the taller sorts of Larkspur are much in request for providing cut
material, particularly for the decoration of the dinner-table, and a number of plants should
always be grown in reserve for this purpose. It is usual to put in the seed where the plants
are intended to stand, and March and April are the best months for sowing. Thin out the seedlings
promptly, and give each plant ample room for development, especially when grown on good ground.

Larkspurs may also be sown in September for producing an earlier display in the following year
than is possible from spring-sown seed.

==LAVATERA==

==Mallow. Hardy annual and hardy perennial==

Countryside gardens owe not a little of their floral brightness to the Mallows. The modern
varieties of Lavatera, however, far surpass in effectiveness the flowers commonly met with
and are regarded as among the finest subjects for creating an imposing display in tall borders
and large beds. For this purpose the annual varieties, Loveliness, =Rosea splendens=, and =Alba
splendens=, are the most popular. As transplanting is not to be depended upon, seed should
be sown thinly in March, April or May where the plants are wanted to flower. If the ground
has been generously prepared fine specimens will result, and each plant should be allowed a
spacing of at least two feet for development.

The perennial variety, =L. Olbia=, makes a bold subject for herbaceous borders and shrubberies.
Seed may be sown in pans any time from March to August, putting out the plants when large enough
for flowering in the following season. Small plants of this variety may with advantage be potted
for conservatory decoration.

==LOBELIA==

==Annual and perennial; half-hardy==

There are several distinct classes of Lobelia, differing materially in height and habit. For
dwarf beds or edgings the =compact= varieties should alone be used. These grow from four to
six inches high, and form dense balls of flowers. The =spreading= or =gracilis= class, including
=L. speciosa= and =L. Paxtoniana=, is in deserved repute for positions which do not demand
an exact limit to the line of colouring. The plants also show to advantage in suspended baskets,
window boxes, rustic work, vases, and any position where an appearance of graceful negligence
is aimed at. The =ramosa= section grows from nine to twelve inches high, and produces much
larger flowers than the classes previously named.

All the foregoing can be treated as annuals; and from sowings, made in February or March plants
may be raised in good time for bedding out in May. Use sandy soil, and place the seed-pans
in a temperature of about 60°, taking care to keep them moist. By the end of March or beginning
of April the seedlings will be ready for transferring to pots, pans, or boxes. The last named
are very serviceable for this flower, for they afford opportunity of giving the seedlings sufficient
space to produce a tufty habit of growth. A gentle heat will start them, and they will give
no trouble afterwards, except on one point, which happens to be of considerable importance.
It is that the plants should never be allowed to produce a flower while in pots or boxes. Pick
off every bud until they are in final positions, and then, having taken hold of the soil, they
will bloom profusely until the end of the season.

Lobelias make elegant pot plants, yet, with the exception of the =ramosa= varieties which are
excellent for the purpose, they cannot be grown satisfactorily in pots. The difficulty is easily
surmounted by putting them out a foot apart in a good open position, and if possible in a rather
stiff soil. When they have developed into fine clumps lift them with care and place them in
pots, avoiding injury to the roots. This method will produce a display of colour which cannot
be attained by exclusive pot culture.

From the best strains of seed it is possible that a few plants may revert to long-lost characters.
Florists are striving to obviate this, but it will require time. Meanwhile there are two ways
of dealing with the difficulty. Some growers prefer to raise plants from seed, and take cuttings
from approved specimens for the next season. This plan insures exactitude in height and colour,
with almost the robust growth and free-flowering qualities of seedlings. But it necessitates
holding a stock through the winter, and this may be a serious matter to many. The simpler proceeding,
and one which answers well in practice, is to raise seedlings annually and to remove from the
pans or boxes any plants which show the least deviation from the true type. A few kept as a
reserve will replace faulty specimens which may be detected after planting out.

The handsome perennial section of Lobelias obtains less attention than it deserves, especially
as the most ordinary routine culture will suffice for these plants. They are partial to moisture,
and also to a deep rich loam. A sowing on moderate heat in February or March will secure plants
fit for bedding out in May. They may also be grown entirely without the aid of artificial heat
from sowings in June or July. Employ pots or seed-pans, and pot off singly immediately the
plants are large enough to handle. The protection of a cold frame or hand-light is all that
is necessary during winter, and the planting out may be done in May. These Lobelias reach two
feet in height, and make excellent companions to such flowers as =Anemone japonica alba= and
=Hyacinthus candicans=. The dark metallic foliage and dazzling scarlet flowers also have an
imposing effect as the back row of a ribbon border.

==LUPINUS==

==Lupine. Hardy annual and hardy perennial==

