As to the fidelity with which the Latter-day Saints have sought to discharge the duties thus
divinely required at their hands, let the temples erected in poverty as in relative prosperity--by
the blood and tears of the people--testify.  Two of these great edifices were constructed by
the Latter-day Saints in the days of their tribulation, in times of their direst persecution,--one
at Kirtland, Ohio, the other at Nauvoo, Illinois.  The first is still standing, though no longer
possessed by the people who built it; and no longer employed for the furtherance of the purposes
of its erection; the second fell a prey to flames enkindled by mobocratic hate.  Four others
have been constructed in the vales of Utah, and are today in service, dedicated to the blessing
of the living, and particularly to the vicarious labor of the living in behalf of the dead.
Shall we suppose that all of God's good gifts to his children are restricted to the narrow
limits of mortal existence?  We are told of the inauguration of this great missionary labor
in the spirit world, as effected by the Christ himself.  After his resurrection, and immediately
following the period during which his body had lain in the tomb guarded by the soldiery, he
declared to the sorrowing Magdalene that he had not at that time ascended to his Father; and,
in the light of his dying promise to the penitent malefactor who suffered on a cross by his
side, we learn that he had been in paradise.  Peter also tells us of his labors--that he was
preaching to the spirits in prison, to those who had been disobedient in the days of Noah when
the long-suffering of God waited while the ark was preparing.  If it was deemed necessary or
just that the gospel be carried to spirits that were disobedient or neglectful in the days
of Noah, are we justified in concluding that others who have rejected or neglected the word
of God shall be left in a state of perpetual condemnation?

"Mormonism" claims that not only shall the gospel be carried to the living, and be preached
to every creature, but that the great missionary labor, the burden of which has been placed
on the Church, must of necessity be extended to the realm of the dead. It declares unequivocally
that without compliance with the requirements established by Jesus Christ, no soul can be saved
from the fate of the condemned; but that opportunity shall be given to every one in the season
of his fitness to receive it, be he heathen or civilized, living or dead.

The whole duty of man is to live and work according to the highest laws of right made known
to him, to walk according to the best light that has been shed about his path; and while Justice
shall deny to every soul that has not rendered obedience to the law, entrance into the kingdom
of the blessed, Mercy shall claim opportunity for all who, have shown themselves willing to
receive the truth and obey its behests.

It will be seen, then, that "Mormonism" offers no modified or conditional claims as to the
necessity of compliance with the laws and ordinances of the gospel by every responsible inhabitant
of earth unto whom salvation shall come.  It distinguishes not between enlightened and heathen
nations, nor between men of high and low intelligence; nor even between the living and the
dead. No human being who has attained years of accountability in the flesh, may hope for salvation
in the kingdom of God until he has rendered obedience to the requirements of Christ, the Redeemer
of the world.

But while thus decisive, "Mormonism" is not exclusive.  It does not claim that all who have
failed to accept and obey the gospel of eternal life shall be eternally and forever damned.
While boldly asserting that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the sole repository
of the Holy Priesthood as now restored to earth, it teaches and demands the fullest toleration
for all individuals, and organizations of individuals, professing righteousness; and holds
that each shall be rewarded for the measure of good he has wrought, to be adjudged in accordance
with the spiritual knowledge he has gained.  For such high claims combined with such professions
of tolerance, the Church has been accused of inconsistency.  Let it not be forgotten, however,
that toleration is not acceptance.  I may believe with the utmost fulness of my soul's powers
that I am right and my neighbor is wrong concerning any proposition or principle; but such
conviction gives me no semblance of right for interfering with his exercise of freedom.  The
only bounds to the liberty of an individual are such as mark the liberty of another, or the
rights of the community.  God himself treats as sacred, and therefore as inviolable, the freedom
of the human soul.

   "Know this, that every soul is free
    To choose his life and what he'll be;
    For this eternal truth is given,
    That God will force no man to heaven.

   "He'll call, persuade, direct aright,
    Bless him with wisdom, love, and light;
    In nameless ways be good and kind,
    But never force the human mind."

"Mormonism" contends that no man or nation possesses the right to forcibly deprive even the
heathen of his right to worship his deity.  Though idolatry has been marked from the earliest
ages with the seal of divine disfavor, it may represent in the unenlightened soul the sincerest
reverence of which the person is capable.  He should be taught better, but not compelled to
render worship which to him is false because in violation of his conscience.

In further defense of the Latter-day Saints against the charge of inconsistency for this their
tolerance toward others whom they verily believe to be wrong, let me again urge the cardinal
principle that every man is accountable for his acts, and shall be judged in the light of the
law as made known to him.

There is no claim of universal forgiveness; no unwarranted glorification of Mercy to the degrading
or neglect of Justice; no thought that a single sin of omission or of commission shall fail
to leave its wound or scar.  In the great future there shall be found a place for every soul,
whatever his grade of spiritual intelligence may be.  So also is the resurrection of the dead,"
(I Cor. 15:40-42).  The Latter-day Saints claim a revelation of the present dispensation as
supplementing the scripture just quoted.  From this later scripture (see D&C, Sec. 76), we
learn that there are three well-defined degrees in the future state, with numerous, perhaps
numberless, gradations.

There is the celestial state provided for those who have lived the whole law, who have accepted
the testimony of the Christ, who have complied with the required ordinances of the gospel,
who have been valiant in the cause of virtue and truth.  Then there is the terrestrial state,
comparable to the first as is the moon to the sun.  This shall be given to the less valiant,
to many who are nevertheless among the worthy men of the earth, but who perchance have been
deceived as to the gospel and its requirements.  The telestial state is for those who have
failed to live according to the light given them; those who have had to suffer the results
of their sins; those who have been of Moses, of Paul, of Apollos, and of any one of a multitude
of others, but not of the Christ.

We hold that there is a wide difference between salvation and exaltation; that there are infinite
gradations beyond the grave as there are here, and as there were in the state preceding this.

