The "old soldier" is beginning to outline himself upon the public mind as a distant character
in American life. Literature has not yet got hold of him, and perhaps his evolution is not
far enough advanced to make him as serviceable as the soldier of the Republic and the Empire,
the relic of the Old Guard, was to Hugo and Balzac, the trooper of Italy and Egypt, the maimed
hero of Borodino and Waterloo, who expected again the coming of the Little Corporal. It takes
time to develop a character, and to throw the glamour of romance over what may be essentially
commonplace. A quarter of a century has not sufficed to separate the great body of the surviving
volunteers in the war for the Union from the body of American citizens, notwithstanding the
organization of the Grand Army of the Republic, the encampments, the annual reunions, and the
distinction of pensions, and the segregation in Soldiers' Homes. The "old soldier" slowly eliminates
himself from the mass, and begins to take, and to make us take, a romantic view of his career.
There was one event in his life, and his personality in it looms larger and larger as he recedes
from it. The heroic sacrifice of it does not diminish, as it should not, in our estimation,
and he helps us to keep glowing a lively sense of it. The past centres about him and his great
achievement, and the whole of life is seen in the light of it. He considered them devoid activity,
genius, and news; their countenance, he delineates as plump and pleasing. Home. Anderson, the surgeon
of the Resolution, describes the natives as a mild, cheerful race, to an appearance less wild than is common
with savages. In the Homes the battered veterans speak mainly of one thing;
and in the monotony of their spent lives develop whimseys and rights and wrongs, patriotic
ardors and criticisms on their singular fate, which are original in their character in our
society. It is in human nature to like rest but not restriction, bounty but not charity, and
the tired heroes of the war grow restless, though every physical want is supplied. They have
a fancy that they would like to see again the homes of their youth, the farmhouse in the hills,
the cottage in the river valley, the lonesome house on the wide prairie, the street that ran
down to the wharf where the fishing-smacks lay, to see again the friends whom they left there,
and perhaps to take up the occupations that were laid down when they seized the musket in 1861.
Alas! it is not their home anymore; the friends are no longer there; and what chance is there
of occupation for a man who is now feeble in body and who has the habit of campaigning? This
generation has passed on to other things. It looks upon the hero as an illustration in the
story of the war, which it reads like history. The veteran starts out from the shelter of the
Home. One evening, towards sunset, the comfortable citizen, taking the mild air on his piazza,
sees an interesting figure approach. Its dress is half military, half that of the wanderer
whose attention to his personal appearance is only spasmodic.

