After the Peace of Nimeguen his movements are obscure. But we know that he spent two years
in a Spanish prison, though we do not know how he contrived to get there. It may be due to
this that upon his release he took his sword to France, and saw service with the French in
their warring upon the Spanish Netherlands. Having reached, at last, the age of thirty-two,
his appetite for adventure surfeited, his health having grown indifferent as the result of
a neglected wound, he was suddenly overwhelmed by homesickness. He took ship from Nantes with
intent to cross to Ireland. But the vessel being driven by stress of weather into Bridgewater
Bay, and Blood's health having grown worse during the voyage, he decided to go ashore there,
additionally urged to it by the fact that it was his mother's native soil.

Thus in January of that year 1685 he had come to Bridgewater, possessor of a fortune that was
approximately the same as that with which he had originally set out from Dublin eleven years ago.

Because he liked the place, in which his health was rapidly restored to him, and because he
conceived that he had passed through adventures enough for a man's lifetime, he determined
to settle there, and take up at last the profession of medicine from which he had, with so
little profit, broken away.

That is all his story, or so much of it as matters up to that night, six months later, when
the battle of Sedgemoor was fought.

Deeming the impending action no affair of his, as indeed it was not, and indifferent to the
activity with which Bridgewater was that night agog, Mr. Blood closed his ears to the sounds
of it, and went early to bed. He was peacefully asleep long before eleven o'clock, at which
hour, as you know, Monmouth rode but with his rebel host along the Bristol Road, circuitously
to avoid the marshland that lay directly between himself and the Royal Army. You also know
that his numerical advantage--possibly counter-balanced by the greater steadiness of the regular
troops on the other side--and the advantages he derived from falling by surprise upon an army
that was more or less asleep, were all lost to him by blundering and bad leadership before
ever he was at grips with Feversham.

The armies came into collision in the neighbourhood of two o'clock in the morning. Mr. Blood
slept undisturbed through the distant boom of cannon. Not until four o'clock, when the sun
was rising to dispel the last wisps of mist over that stricken field of battle, did he awaken
from his tranquil slumbers.

He sat up in bed, rubbed the sleep from his eyes, and collected himself. Blows were thundering
upon the door of his house, and a voice was calling incoherently. This was the noise that had
aroused him. Conceiving that he had to do with some urgent obstetrical case, he reached for
bedgown and slippers, to go below. On the landing he almost collided with Mrs. Barlow, new-risen
and unsightly, in a state of panic. He quieted her cluckings with a word of reassurance, and
went himself to open.

There in slanting golden light of the new-risen sun stood a breathless, wild-eyed man and a
steaming horse. Smothered in dust and grime, his clothes in disarray, the left sleeve of his
doublet hanging in rags, this young man opened his lips to speak, yet for a long moment remained
speechless.

In that moment Mr. Blood recognized him for the young shipmaster, Jeremiah Pitt, the nephew
of the maiden ladies opposite, one who had been drawn by the general enthusiasm into the vortex
of that rebellion. The street was rousing, awakened by the sailor's noisy advent; doors were
opening, and lattices were being unlatched for the protrusion of anxious, inquisitive heads.

"Take your time, now," said Mr. Blood. "I never knew speed made by overhaste."

But the wild-eyed lad paid no heed to the admonition. He plunged, headlong, into speech, gasping,
breathless.

"It is Lord Gildoy," he panted. "He is sore wounded... at Oglethorpe's Farm by the river. I
bore him thither... and... and he sent me for you. Come away! Come away!"

He would have clutched the doctor, and haled him forth by force in bedgown and slippers as
he was. But the doctor eluded that too eager hand.

"To be sure, I'll come," said he. He was distressed. Gildoy had been a very friendly, generous
patron to him since his settling in these parts. And Mr. Blood was eager enough to do what
he now could to discharge the debt, grieved that the occasion should have arisen, and in such
a manner--for he knew quite well that the rash young nobleman had been an active agent of the
Duke's. "To be sure, I'll come. But first give me leave to get some clothes and other things
that I may need."

"There's no time to lose."

"Be easy now. I'll lose none. I tell ye again, ye'll go quickest by going leisurely. Come in...
take a chair..." He threw open the door of a parlour.

Young Pitt waved aside the invitation.

"I'll wait here. Make haste, in God's name." Mr. Blood went off to dress and to fetch a case
of instruments.

Questions concerning the precise nature of Lord Gildoy's hurt could wait until they were on
their way. Whilst he pulled on his boots, he gave Mrs. Barlow instructions for the day, which
included the matter of a dinner he was not destined to eat.

When at last he went forth again, Mrs. Barlow clucking after him like a disgruntled fowl, he
found young Pitt smothered in a crowd of scared, half-dressed townsfolk--mostly women--who
had come hastening for news of how the battle had sped. The news he gave them was to be read
in the lamentations with which they disturbed the morning air.

At sight of the doctor, dressed and booted, the case of instruments tucked under his arm, the
messenger disengaged himself from those who pressed about, shook off his weariness and the
two tearful aunts that clung most closely, and seizing the bridle of his horse, he climbed
to the saddle.

"Come along, sir," he cried. "Mount behind me."

Mr. Blood, without wasting words, did as he was bidden. Pitt touched the horse with his spur.
The little crowd gave way, and thus, upon the crupper of that doubly-laden horse, clinging
to the belt of his companion, Peter Blood set out upon his Odyssey. For this Pitt, in whom
he beheld no more than the messenger of a wounded rebel gentleman, was indeed the very messenger
of Fate.

CHAPTER II. KIRKE'S DRAGOONS

Oglethorpe's farm stood a mile or so to the south of Bridgewater on the right bank of the river.
It was a straggling Tudor building showing grey above the ivy that clothed its lower parts.
Approaching it now, through the fragrant orchards amid which it seemed to drowse in Arcadian
peace beside the waters of the Parrett, sparkling in the morning sunlight, Mr. Blood might
have had a difficulty in believing it part of a world tormented by strife and bloodshed.

On the bridge, as they had been riding out of Bridgewater, they had met a vanguard of fugitives
from the field of battle, weary, broken men, many of them wounded, all of them terror-stricken,
staggering in speedless haste with the last remnants of their strength into the shelter which
it was their vain illusion the town would afford them. Eyes glazed with lassitude and fear
looked up piteously out of haggard faces at Mr. Blood and his companion as they rode forth;
hoarse voices cried a warning that merciless pursuit was not far behind. Undeterred, however,
young Pitt rode amain along the dusty road by which these poor fugitives from that swift rout
on Sedgemoor came flocking in ever-increasing numbers. Presently he swung aside, and quitting
the road took to a pathway that crossed the dewy meadowlands. Even here they met odd groups
of these human derelicts, who were scattering in all directions, looking fearfully behind them
as they came through the long grass, expecting at every moment to see the red coats of the
dragoons.

But as Pitt's direction was a southward one, bringing them ever nearer to Feversham's headquarters,
they were presently clear of that human flotsam and jetsam of the battle, and riding through
the peaceful orchards heavy with the ripening fruit that was soon to make its annual yield
of cider.

At last they alighted on the kidney stones of the courtyard, and Baynes, the master, of the
homestead, grave of countenance and flustered of manner, gave them welcome.

In the spacious, stone-flagged hall, the doctor found Lord Gildoy--a very tall and dark young
gentleman, prominent of chin and nose--stretched on a cane day-bed under one of the tall mullioned
windows, in the care of Mrs. Baynes and her comely daughter. His cheeks were leaden-hued, his
eyes closed, and from his blue lips came with each laboured breath a faint, moaning noise.

Mr. Blood stood for a moment silently considering his patient. He deplored that a youth with
such bright hopes in life as Lord Gildoy's should have risked all, perhaps existence itself,
to forward the ambition of a worthless adventurer. Because he had liked and honoured this brave
lad he paid his case the tribute of a sigh. Then he knelt to his task, ripped away doublet
and underwear to lay bare his lordship's mangled side, and called for water and linen and what
else he needed for his work.

He was still intent upon it a half-hour later when the dragoons invaded the homestead. The
clatter of hooves and hoarse shouts that heralded their approach disturbed him not at all.
For one thing, he was not easily disturbed; for another, his task absorbed him. But his lordship,
who had now recovered consciousness, showed considerable alarm, and the battle-stained Jeremy
Pitt sped to cover in a clothes-press. Baynes was uneasy, and his wife and daughter trembled.
Mr. Blood reassured them.

"Why, what's to fear?" he said. "It's a Christian country, this, and Christian men do not make
war upon the wounded, nor upon those who harbour them." He still had, you see, illusions about
Christians. He held a glass of cordial, prepared under his directions, to his lordship's lips.
"Give your mind peace, my lord. The worst is done."

And then they came rattling and clanking into the stone-flagged hall--a round dozen jack-booted,
lobster-coated troopers of the Tangiers Regiment, led by a sturdy, black-browed fellow with
a deal of gold lace about the breast of his coat.

Baynes stood his ground, his attitude half-defiant, whilst his wife and daughter shrank away
in renewed fear. Mr. Blood, at the head of the day-bed, looked over his shoulder to take stock
of the invaders.

The officer barked an order, which brought his men to an attentive halt, then swaggered forward,
his gloved hand bearing down the pummel of his sword, his spurs jingling musically as he moved.
He announced his authority to the yeoman.

"I am Captain Hobart, of Colonel Kirke's dragoons. What rebels do you harbour?"

The yeoman took alarm at that ferocious truculence. It expressed itself in his trembling voice.

"I... I am no harbourer of rebels, sir. This wounded gentleman...."

"I can see for myself." The Captain stamped forward to the day-bed, and scowled down upon the
grey-faced sufferer.

"No need to ask how he came in this state and by his wounds. A damned rebel, and that's enough
for me." He flung a command at his dragoons. "Out with him, my lads."

Mr. Blood got between the day-bed and the troopers.

"In the name of humanity, sir!" said he, on a note of anger. "This is England, not Tangiers.
The gentleman is in sore case. He may not be moved without peril to his life."

Captain Hobart was amused.

