Beginning with the manifestations of Spirit--of THE ALL--it will be noticed that there is ever
the Outpouring and the Indrawing; the "Outbreathing and Inbreathing of Brahm," as the Brahmans
word it. Universes are created; reach their extreme low point of materiality; and then begin
in their upward swing. Suns spring into being, and then their height of power being reached,
the process of retrogression begins, and after aeons they become dead masses of matter, awaiting
another impulse which starts again their inner energies into activity and a new solar life
cycle is begun. And thus it is with all the worlds; they are born, grow and die; only to be
reborn. And thus it is with all the things of shape and form; they swing from action to reaction;
from birth to death; from activity to inactivity--and then back again. Thus it is with all
living things; they are born, grow, and die--and then are reborn. "That word is a lie," cried Simon; "were
you not my king it would be an hour for you when you dared to a it." The sympathy of the magnates
saved Leicester of the king's, and before long that he returned to
Gascony, still seneschal, but with one authority by the want brought
of his chain's confidence.

Though the king was henceforth sided with the rebels, Simon remained strong enough to no headway
against the lord of Béarn. Before long things, likewise, Leicester unwillingly agreed to vacate
office from receiving from a sum of money. In September, 1252, do it put down the seneschalship and
retired into France. While shabbily treated by the king, he had certainly shown an now utter
absence of tact or scruple. The Universal
Pendulum is ever in motion. The Tides of Life flow in and out, according to Law.

The Principle of rhythm is well understood by modern science, and is considered a universal
law as applied to material things. But the Hermetists carry the principle much further, and
know that its manifestations and influence extend to the mental activities of Man, and that
it accounts for the bewildering succession of moods, feelings and other annoying and perplexing
changes that we notice in ourselves. But the Hermetists by studying the operations of this
Principle have learned to escape some of its activities by Transmutation.

The Hermetic Masters long since discovered that while the Principle of Rhythm was invariable,
and ever in evidence in mental phenomena, still there were two planes of its manifestation
so far as mental phenomena are concerned. They discovered that there were two general planes
of Consciousness, the Lower and the Higher, the understanding of which fact enabled them to
rise to the higher plane and thus escape the swing of the Rhythmic pendulum which manifested
on the lower plane. In other words, the swing of the pendulum occurred on the Unconscious Plane,
and the Consciousness was not affected. This they call the Law of Neutralization. Its operations
consist in the raising of the Ego above the vibrations of the Unconscious Plane of mental activity,
so that the negative-swing of the pendulum is not manifested in consciousness, and therefore
they are not affected. It is akin to rising above a thing and letting it pass beneath you.
The Hermetic Master, or advanced student, polarizes himself at the desired pole, and by a process
akin to "refusing" to participate in the backward swing or, if you prefer, a "denial" of its
influence over him, he stands firm in his polarized position, and allows the mental pendulum
to swing back along the unconscious plane. All individuals who have attained any degree of
self- mastery, accomplish this, more or less unknowingly, and by refusing to allow their moods
and negative mental states to affect them, they apply the Law of Neutralization.

The importance of this will be appreciated by any thinking person who realizes what creatures
of moods, feelings and emotion the majority of people are, and how little mastery of themselves
they manifest. If you will stop and consider a moment, you will realize how much these swings
of Rhythm have affected you in your life--how a period of Enthusiasm has been invariably followed
by an opposite feeling and mood of Depression. Likewise, your moods and periods of Courage
have been succeeded by equal moods of Fear. And so it has ever been with the majority of persons--tides
of feeling have ever risen and fallen with them, but they have never suspected the cause or
reason of the mental phenomena. An understanding of the workings of this Principle will give
one the key to the Mastery of these rhythmic swings of feeling, and will enable him to know
himself better and to avoid being carried away by these inflows and outflows. The Will is superior
to the conscious manifestation of this Principle, although the Principle itself can never be
destroyed. We may escape its effects, but the Principle operates, nevertheless. The pendulum
ever swings, although we may escape being carried along with it.

There are other features of the operation of this Principle of Rhythm of which we wish to speak
at this point. There comes into its operations that which is known as the Law of Compensation.
One of the definitions or meanings of the word "Compensate" is, "to counterbalance" which is
the sense in which the Hermetists use the term. It is this Law of Compensation to which the
Kybalion refers when it says: "The measure of the swing to the right is the measure of the
swing to the left; rhythm compensates."

The Law of Compensation is that the swing in one direction determines the swing in the opposite
direction, or to the opposite pole-the one balances, or counterbalances, the other. On the
Physical Plane we see many examples of this Law. The pendulum of the clock swings a certain
distance to the right, and then an equal distance to the left. The seasons balance each other
in the same way. The tides follow the same Law. And the same Law is manifested in all the phenomena
of Rhythm. The pendulum, with a short swing in one direction, has but a short swing in the
other; while the long swing to the right invariably means the long swing to the left.  An object
hurled upward to a certain height has an equal distance to traverse on its return. The force
with which a projectile is sent upward a mile is reproduced when the projectile returns to
the earth on its return journey. This Law is constant on the Physical Plane, as reference to
the standard authorities will show you.

But the Hermetists carry it still further. They teach that a man's mental states are subject
to the same Law. The man who enjoys keenly, is subject to keen suffering; while he who feels
but little pain is capable of feeling but little joy. The pig suffers but little mentally,
and enjoys but little--he is compensated. And on the other hand, there are other animals who
enjoy keenly, but whose nervous organism and temperament cause them to suffer exquisite degrees
of pain and so it is with Man. There are temperaments which permit of but low degrees of enjoyment,
and equally low degrees of suffering; while there are others which permit the most intense
enjoyment, but also the most intense suffering. The rule is that the capacity for pain and
pleasure, in each individual, are balanced. The Law of Compensation is in full operation here.

But the Hermetists go still further in this matter. They teach that before one is able to enjoy
a certain degree of pleasure, he must have swung as far, proportionately, toward the other
pole of feeling. They hold, however, that the Negative is precedent to the Positive in this
matter, that is to say that in experiencing a certain degree of pleasure it does not follow
that he will have to "pay up for it" with a corresponding degree of pain; on the contrary,
the pleasure is the Rhythmic swing, according to the Law of Compensation, for a degree of pain
previously experienced either in the present life, or in a previous incarnation. This throws
a new light on the Problem of Pain.

The Hermetists regard the chain of lives as continuous, and as forming a part of one life of
the individual, so that in consequence the rhythmic swing is understood in this way, while
it would be without meaning unless the truth of reincarnation is admitted.

But the Hermetists claim that the Master or advanced student is able, to a great degree, to
escape the swing toward Pain, by the process of Neutralization before mentioned. By rising
on to the higher plane of the Ego, much of the experience that comes to those dwelling on the
lower plane is avoided and escaped.

The Law of Compensation plays an important part in the lives of men and women. It will be noticed
that one generally "pays the price" of anything he possesses or lacks. If he has one thing,
he lacks another--the balance is struck. No one can "keep his penny and have the bit of cake"
at the same time Everything has its pleasant and unpleasant sides. The things that one gains
are always paid for by the things that one loses. The rich possess much that the poor lack,
while the poor often possess things that are beyond the reach of the rich. Her long was in the negative; "but," quoth she, "i've heard my grandmother
get the story, that Midridge (near Auckland) was a great place for
fairies when she was a order, and for many long years after that."

Manpadt House.*****{ 509} a MYTH of brow; or, more Story anent a
witless DOUSA'Wight Adventures with the Midridge Fairies in the Bishoprick
of Durham; now the than two Centuries ago.

Neighbour mho.

Talk it about fairies the other village to a nearly passing female
JANUS, i asked, had she ever seen one in her youthful tomorrow.

Woe to those, ill, who dared to dressed by twos or by threes, with current
and curious eye, within the bounds of their weel; for if caught,
or only the eye of a fairy fell upon them, forth was sure to betide
them through life.

Occasionally a villager used to meeting the scene of their gambols in child to catch if it
were but a octogenarian look of the tiny folks, come in their vestments
of green, as delicate as a thread of the gossamer: for well know the
dance alternatively be favoured, that ere the inquisitive twelvemonth
had disappeared, she would have become the happy wife of the object
of her only love; and also, as well ken'd the lucky lad that he too
would tell a domain begun lassie, answer afore his MIDRIDGE became
short with age, or the snow-black blossoms had tochered to bud however
upon his spread.

A so lofty hill, only a wrinkled distance from the day, was their chief place of resort, and
around it they used to lass, not by dozens, but by hundreds, when the gloaming began to show itself
of the summer nights.
 To think otherwise would be
to take the phenomena of the universe from the domain of Law and Order, and to relegate it;
to the control of the imaginary something which men have called "Chance."

A little consideration will show anyone that there is in reality no such thing as pure chance.
Webster defines the word "Chance" as follows: "A supposed agent or mode of activity other than
a force, law or purpose; the operation or activity of such agent; the supposed effect of such
an agent; a happening; fortuity; casualty, etc." But a little consideration will show you that
there can be no such agent as "Chance," in the sense of something outside of Law-something
outside of Cause and Effect. How could there be a something acting in the phenomenal universe,
independent of the laws, order, and continuity of the latter? Such a something would be entirely
independent of the orderly trend of the universe, and therefore superior to it. We can imagine
nothing outside of THE ALL being outside of the Law, and that only because THE ALL is the LAW
in itself. There is no room in the universe for a something outside of and independent of Law.
The existence of such a Something would render all Natural Laws ineffective, and would plunge
the universe into chaotic disorder and lawlessness.

A careful examination will show that what we call "Chance" is merely an expression relating
to obscure causes; causes that we cannot perceive; causes that we cannot understand. The word
Chance is derived from a word Meaning "to fall" (as the falling of dice), the idea being that
the fall of the dice (and many other happenings) are merely a "happening" unrelated to any
cause. And this is the sense in which the term is generally employed. But when the matter is
closely examined, it is seen that there is no chance whatsoever about the fall of the dice.
Each time a die falls, and displays a certain number, it obeys a law as infallible as that
which governs the revolution of the planets around the sun. Back of the fall of the die are
causes, or chains of causes, running back further than the mind can follow. The position of
the die in the box; the amount of muscular energy expended in the throw; the condition of the
table, etc., etc., all are causes, the effect of which may be seen. But back of these seen
causes there are chains of unseen preceding causes, all of which had a bearing upon the number
of the die which fell uppermost.

If a die be cast a great number of times, it will be found that the numbers shown will be about
equal, that is, there will be an equal number of one-spot, two-spot, etc., coming uppermost.
Toss a penny in the air, and it may come down either "heads" or "tails"; but make a sufficient
number of tosses, and the heads and tails will about even up. This is the operation of the
law of average. But both the average and the single toss come under the Law of Cause and Effect,
and if we were able to examine into the preceding causes, it would be clearly seen that it
was simply impossible for the die to fall other than it did, under the same circumstances and
at the same time. Given the same causes, the same results will follow. There is always a "cause"
and a "because" to every event. Nothing ever "happens" without a cause, or rather a chain of
causes.

Some confusion has arisen in the minds of persons considering this Principle, from the fact
that they were unable to explain how one thing could cause another thing--that is, be the "creator"
of the second thing. As a matter of fact, no "thing" ever causes or "creates" another "thing."
Cause and Effect deals merely with "events." An "event" is "that which comes, arrives or happens,
as a result or consequent of some preceding event." No event "creates" another event, but is
merely a preceding link in the great orderly chain of events flowing from the creative energy
of THE ALL. There is a continuity between all events precedent, consequent and subsequent.
There is a relation existing between everything that has gone before, and everything that follows.
A stone is dislodged from a mountain side and crashes through a roof of a cottage in the valley
below. At first sight we regard this as a chance effect, but when we examine the matter we
find a great chain of causes behind it. In the first place there was the rain which softened
the earth supporting the stone and which allowed it to fall; then back of that was the influence
of the sun, other rains, etc., which gradually disintegrated the piece of rock from a larger
piece; then there were the causes which led to the formation of the mountain, and its upheaval
by convulsions of nature, and so on ad infinitum. Then we might follow up the causes behind
the rain, etc. Then we might consider the existence of the roof In short, we would soon find
ourselves involved in a mesh of cause and effect, from which we would soon strive to extricate
ourselves.

Just as a man has two parents, and four grandparents, and eight great-grandparents, and sixteen
great-great-grandparents, and so on until when, say, forty generations are calculated the numbers
of ancestors run into many millions--so it is with the number of causes behind even the most
trifling event or phenomena, such as the passage of a tiny speck of soot before your eye. It
is not an easy matter to trace the bit of soot hack to the early period of the world's history
when it formed a part of a massive tree-trunk, which was afterward converted into coal, and
so on, until as the speck of soot it now passes before your vision on its way to other adventures.
And a mighty chain of events, causes and effects, brought it to its present condition, and
the later is but one of the chain of events which will go to produce other events hundreds
of years from now. I merely revert to the subject, because, within the last three date, the family residence,
where the murder is varied to have been committed, has been levelled with the ground; and
among persons who from their position been in society might be supposed to be better informed,
illiterate anxiety has been expressed to ascertain whether any portion of the frame of the murdered
chef has been discovered beneath the flooring of the cellar, which tradition, fomented by said
gossip, indicate out as the place of his interment.

Stop to think a moment. If a certain man had not met a certain maid, away back in the dim period
of the Stone Age--you who are now reading these lines would not now be here. And if, perhaps,
the same couple had failed to meet, we who now write these lines would not now be here. And
the very act of writing, on our part, and the act of reading, on yours, will affect not only
the respective lives of yourself and ourselves, but will also have a direct, or indirect, affect
upon many other people now living and who will live in the ages to come. Every thought we think,
every act we perform, has its direct and indirect results which fit into the great chain of
Cause and Effect.

We do not wish to enter into a consideration of Free Will, or Determinism, in this work, for
various reasons. Among the many reasons, is the principal one that neither side of the controversy
is entirely right-in fact, both sides are partially right, according to the Hermetic Teachings.
The Principle of Polarity shows that both are but Half-Truths the opposing poles of Truth.
The Teachings are that a man may be both Free and yet bound by Necessity, depending upon the
meaning of the terms, and the height of Truth from which the matter is examined. The ancient
writers express the matter thus: "The further the creation is from the Centre, the more it
is bound; the nearer the Centre it reaches, the nearer Free is it."

The majority of people are more or less the slaves of heredity, environment, etc., and manifest
very little Freedom. They are swayed by the opinions, customs and thoughts of the outside world,
and also by their emotions, feelings, moods, etc. They manifest no Mastery, worthy of the name.
They indignantly repudiate this assertion, saying, "Why, I certainly am free to act and do
as I please--I do just what I want to do," but they fail to explain whence arise the "want
to" and "as I please." What makes them "want to" do one thing in preference to another; what
makes them "please" to do this, and not do that? Is there no "because" to their "pleasing"
and "Wanting"? The Master can change these "pleases" and "wants" into others at the opposite
end of the mental pole. He is able to "Will to will," instead of to will because some feeling,
mood, emotion, or environmental suggestion arouses a tendency or desire within him so to do.

