This addiction was nowhere better demonstrated than by the countless reflections, sermons,
poems, pamphlets, biographical sketches, and biographies about Samuel Johnson. The most productive
phase of this activity commenced almost immediately after Johnson's death in December, 1784,
and continued into the next century.

One item of Johnsoniana which seems to have been neglected, perhaps because Birkbeck Hill did
not include it in his Johnsonian Miscellanies, is A Poetical Review of the Literary and Moral
Character of the Late Samuel Johnson, L.L.D., with Notes. This poem of three hundred and four
lines was written by John Courtenay (1741-1816). First published in the spring of 1786 by Charles
Dilly, the poem went through three editions in the same year. Its popularity was determined
less by Courtenay's poetic talent than by public interest in the Johnsoniana that flooded the
market. Courtenay's literary output, though scanty, was diverse; he wrote light verse, character
sketches, and essays, including two controversial pieces in support of the French Revolution.[1]
It is apparent, however, that for him writing was hardly more than an avocation.

Despite his notoriety as a controversial member of Parliament, as a first-rate wit, and as
an intimate friend of Boswell, Courtenay remains a shadowy figure. References to him occur
often in the last volumes of Boswell's journal, but few of them are particularly revealing.
Courtenay evidently never met Johnson; indeed, the anonymous author of A Poetical Epistle from
the Ghost of Dr. Johnson to His Four Friends: The Rev. Mr. Strahan. James Boswell, Esq. Mrs.
Piozzi. J. Courtenay, Esq. M.P. (1786) censures Courtenay for writing about a man whom he did
not know. Although a member of the Literary Club, Courtenay did not join this group until four
years after Johnson died. He was proposed on 9 December 1788, by Sir Joshua Reynolds (Boswell
seconded), and elected two weeks later, on 23 December, during the same meeting at which it
was decided to erect a monument to Dr. Johnson in Westminster Abbey.[2]

If, then, Courtenay did not belong to the Johnson circle, he became, shortly after Johnson's
death, a valued member of the Boswell circle. Courtenay must have met Boswell in the spring
or early summer of 1785, about thirteen years after arriving in England from his native Ireland
in the service of Viscount Townshend. Boswell's first reference to Courtenay occurs in his
journal under 7 July 1785.[3] It is clear from this entry that he had met Courtenay earlier,
but subsequent references indicate that the acquaintance was a fresh one.

From the start Boswell enjoyed Courtenay's company. In the first place, Boswell appreciated
Courtenay's talent in conversation. Although he seldom recorded specimens of Courtenay's talk,
Boswell was generous in his praise of his wit. "Courtenay's wit," he wrote, "sparkles more
than almost any man's."[4] On 26 March 1788, Boswell described him as a "valuable addition"
to a meeting of the Essex Head Club which he attended as Boswell's guest. "Indeed," Boswell
continued, "his conversation is excellent; it has so much literature, wit, and at the same
time manly sense, in it."[5] An example of his "manly sense" that "struck home" to Boswell
was Courtenay's remark that had Johnson been born to three thousand pounds a year his melancholy
would have been at greater leisure to torment him.[6]

But there was a greater reason for Courtenay's intimacy with Boswell. The period following
Johnson's death was for Boswell a time of intense anxiety. By 1786 Courtenay and Edmond Malone
had become Boswell's closest confidants. Boswell relished the long walks and the dinners he
took with Courtenay. Throughout his journal he confessed to the therapeutic value of Courtenay's
company; "I am," he admitted, "quite another Man with M. C., Malone, Courtenay."[7]

Moreover, Boswell often solicited Courtenay's advice in various crises. Courtenay, together
with Malone, helped him out of scrapes with Alexander Tytler and Lord Macdonald, induced him
to lighten his published attacks on Mrs. Piozzi and helped make him aware of the merit of her
edition of Johnson's correspondence, and advised him to cancel some questionable passages in
the Life on William Gerard Hamilton. From time to time he also cautioned Boswell not to expect
political preferment when he did not deserve it. It appears, too, that he took part in the
prolonged deliberations over Johnson's monument in Westminster Abbey. Concerned that Boswell's
drinking might impede his work on the Life, Courtenay made him promise to quit drinking from
December 1790, to the following March, a promise which, as far as he was able, Boswell kept.[8]

Courtenay's high spirits and his ability to relieve Boswell's melancholy were all the more
remarkable because Courtenay, with a wife and seven children to support, was poverty-stricken
during most of this period. Boswell, lamenting the failure of the Whigs to provide financial
assistance to one of the party's most active members, found Courtenay's "firmness of mind ...
amazing" under such difficulties.[9] No doubt Courtenay's resolve endeared him to Boswell,
whose own financial and psychological problems were, of course, a great burden.

This is not to say that relations between the two men were always cordial. Courtenay was evidently
a non-believer, and the two men often differed on religious matters. Boswell condemned Courtenay's
"wild ravings" in favor of the French revolution, and once confessed his deep regret about
quarreling with so close a friend on this subject.[10] They also differed on the question of
slavery, and Boswell good-naturedly chided Courtenay and William Windham as abolitionists in
his poem, No Abolition of Slavery; or the Universal Empire of Love (1791).[11] It is clear,
too, that as Boswell's depression grew, Courtenay's power to brighten his spirits waned considerably.
Their friendship, nevertheless, seems to have ended on a happy note, for Boswell's final mention
of Courtenay in his journal includes the remark that with Courtenay he had spent a "good day."[12]

Courtenay's Poetical Review, characterized by Donald A. Stauffer as an embodiment of the "vice-and-virtue
philosophy" in biography, was one of the most spirited pieces of Johnsoniana to appear.[13]
The poem begins with disdain, but at line sixty-one reverses direction and becomes vigorously
commendatory. Courtenay did not attempt to add fresh information about Johnson's life and career.
Consequently, the unfavorable portion of the poem is a conventional catalog of Johnson's often
publicized foibles and prejudices, just as the favorable section is in part a commonplace survey
of his artistic achievement.

This contrast, as Stauffer remarks, renders Courtenay's praise more powerful.[14] More important,
the play between scorn and praise reflects the ambivalence which colors contemporary accounts
of Johnson. We are now accustomed to the notion of great art as the product of a flawed life.
But in the eighteenth century, an age largely devoted to the idea of discreet biography which
concealed or minimized the subject's weaknesses, a man like Johnson presented formidable problems
to the biographer and his readers. Although Courtenay merely versified material which other
writers had discussed in much more detail, his poem is important because it synthesizes the
conflicting attitudes towards Johnson which prevailed immediately after his death. Courtenay,
like many others, saw in Johnson a powerful mixture of great virtues and vices; and though
he is not impartial, he effects, through his honesty, an admirable balance between Johnson's
strengths and weaknesses. The final forty lines of the Review constitute one of the most balanced
of all contemporary tributes to Johnson as a human being.

For the most part, the commendatory section of the poem is an unsystematic tracing of Johnson's
moral and literary merits. Courtenay's rhapsodizing on the Dictionary, the Rambler, and the
Lives of the Poets is conventional. Clearly, he admired the wide scope of Johnson's learning
and his ability to communicate his knowledge of men and manners in his writings. But his admiration
occasionally betrays him; for instance, in describing the "brilliant school" through which
Johnson's influence was perpetuated, he overestimated the extent to which Reynolds, Malone,
Burney, Jones, Goldsmith, Steevens, Hawkesworth, and Boswell were indebted to Johnson's writings.[15]
Usually, however, he was on firmer ground. Courtenay was the only writer before Boswell to
praise Johnson's Latin verse, a body of poetry virtually ignored by other contemporary biographers
and memorialists.[16] Furthermore, he employs footnotes skillfully. Though they impede the
progress of the poem, they do support poetic statement with factual evidence and explain and
amplify certain points made in the verses.

The clearest evidence for the care which Courtenay took with the Review can be found upon examination
of his revisions. He made few substantial changes in the second edition, but the third edition
contains important revisions. Courtenay added ten lines and five footnotes in the final version,
and lightened some of the scorn in the first portion by substituting weaker phrases for stronger
ones. He also enclosed lines seven through twenty in quotation marks to make it appear that
the sentiment expressed therein was not his own, but a judgment he had heard elsewhere.

But the most significant revisions are concerned with organization. By transferring segments
of certain verse paragraphs to others, he achieves a more unified portrait of Johnson. By means
of such revision, he forms his general evaluation of Johnson's writing into one unit and his
comments on individual works into another, where before they had been awkwardly interwoven.

Courtenay's Review did not go unnoticed at the time, though for obvious reasons it was given
less attention by the reviewers than the more notorious Johnsoniana. Extracts from the poem
were printed in several magazines. The reviewers were almost unanimous in damning the poem's
inelegance, unevenness, and lack of harmony, but reserved praise for the sentiments and candor.[17]
Chesterfield's apologist in William Hayley's Two Dialogues; Containing a Comparative View of
the Lives, Characters, and Writings of Philip, the Late Earl of Chesterfield, and Dr. Samuel
Johnson (1787) protested that Courtenay was too kind to Johnson. The severest indictment of
the Review came from the anonymous author of A Poetical Epistle from the Ghost of Dr. Johnson,
mentioned earlier, who charged Courtenay with poor taste and with belaboring the obvious by
proving that Johnson was "not quite destitute of brains."[18]

The greatest champion of the Review was, of course, Boswell. The Life is sprinkled with quotations
from the third edition, 118 lines in all, mostly from Courtenay's commendatory verses. In view
of the many published attacks on Johnson, Boswell must have appreciated Courtenay's sentiments
all the more. Doubtless Courtenay's warm praise of the Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides also
found favor with Boswell.[19] Perhaps Boswell's final and least partial judgment of the Review
was expressed in his letter to James Abercrombie of Philadelphia dated 11 June 1792. He sent
Abercrombie a copy of the poem, commenting that "though I except to several passages, you will
find some very good writing."[20]

Courtenay's Review, together with several other little known memorabilia concerning Johnson,
stimulated one of the most energetic and splenetic literary controversies of the late eighteenth
century. In addition, the Review and pieces like it aroused a considerable amount of useful,
if vitriolic, discussion about the art of biography.

University of Iowa

NOTES TO THE INTRODUCTION

[1] See DNB.

[2] For the information about Courtenay's election, I am indebted to Professor James M. Osborn
of Yale University. Boswell gives no precise date for Courtenay's entry into the Club. His
first reference to Courtenay's membership occurs in his journal entry of 19 January 1790. See
Private Papers of James Boswell, ed. Geoffrey Scott and Frederick A. Pottle (Privately Printed,
1928-1934), XVIII, 22. See also Boswell's letter to Edmond Malone dated 16 December 1790, Letters
of James Boswell, ed. C. B. Tinker (Oxford, 1924), II, 409-410. Courtenay and other intimates
of Boswell were called "The Gang" by Philip Metcalfe. See Private Papers, XVII, 52, 55; XVIII, 15.

[3] Private Papers, XVI, 106.

[4] Ibid., XVII, 80. For additional testimony to Courtenay's reputation as a wit, see Thraliana,
ed. Katharine C. Balderston (Oxford, 1951), I, 486, and James Prior, Life of Edmond Malone
(London, 1860), 287-288.

[5] Private Papers, XVII, 86.

[6] Ibid., pp. 76-77.

[7] Ibid., XVI, 178. "M. C." is Mrs. Rudd.

[8] See Boswell's letters to Malone, Letters, II, 405, 427, and Private Papers, XVIII, 100.
Courtenay became alarmed over Boswell's deepening melancholy, as seen in this passage from
his letter to Malone of 22 February 1791: "Poor Boswell is very low, & desperate & ... melancholy
mad, feels no spring, no pleasure in existence, & is so perceptibly altered for the worse that
it is remarked everywhere. I try all I can to revivify him, but he [turns?] so tiresomely &
tediously--for the same cursed trite commonplace topics, about death &c.--that we grow old,
and when we are old, we are not young--that I despair of effecting a cure. Doctors Warren and
Devaynes very kindly interest themselves about him, but you wd be of more service to him than
anyone." Quoted from a MS at Yale University Library by James Osborn, "Edmond Malone and Dr.
Johnson," Johnson, Boswell and Their Circle: Essays Presented to Lawrence Fitzroy Powell in
Honour of His Eighty-fourth Birthday (Oxford, 1965), p. 16.

[9] Letters, II, 428, 425. Boswell tried to negotiate loans for Courtenay, and made a successful
application to Reynolds. See Private Papers, XVII, 85-86, 101-102; XVIII, 120.

[10] Private Papers, XVIII, 171, 178, 184.

[11] See Frank Brady, Boswell's Political Career (New Haven, 1965), p. 169, and Frederick A.
Pottle, The Literary Career of James Boswell, Esq. (Oxford, 1929), p. 147.

[12] Private Papers, XVIII, 271. This entry is dated 31 March 1794, not long before the journal
ends and some thirteen months before Boswell's death.

[13] The Art of Biography in Eighteenth Century England (Princeton, 1941), p. 345.

[14] Ibid., p. 346.

[15] W. K. Wimsatt, Jr., in The Prose Style of Samuel Johnson (New Haven, 1941), pp. 135-138,
argues against the notion that Johnson's friends formed such a "school."

[16] Boswell praised Courtenay's "just and discriminative eulogy" on Johnson's Latin poems,
and quoted it. See Boswell's Life of Johnson, ed. G. B. Hill, revised L. F. Powell (Oxford,
1934-1950), I, 62.

[17] See European Magazine, IX (April 1786), 266; Gentleman's Magazine, LVI (May 1786), 415;
Monthly Review, LXXV (September 1786), 229.

[18] It should be noted that the attack on Courtenay in this poem is the mildest of the four.
The famous caricaturist, Sayer, included Courtenay in a poetic attack on Mrs. Piozzi appended
to his print, Frontispiece to the 2nd Edition of Johnson's Letters, published 7 April 1788.
See James L. Clifford, Hester Lynch Piozzi (Mrs. Thrale) (Oxford, 1952), p. 329.

[19] Boswell quoted Courtenay's compliment in Life, II, 268.

[20] Letters, II, 444.

  BY JOHN COURTENAY, ESQ.
  THE THIRD EDITION, CORRECTED.

  ----immensæ veluti connexa carinæ
  Cymba minor. STATIUS.

  LONDON:
  PRINTED FOR CHARLES DILLY IN THE POULTRY.
  M DCC LXXXVI.

  A
  POETICAL REVIEW, &c.

  A Generous tear will Caledonia shed?
  Her ancient foe, illustrious Johnson's dead;
  Mac-Ossian's sons may now securely rest,
  Safe from the bitter sneer, the cynick jest.[21]
  The song of triumph now I seem to hear,
  And these the sounds that vibrate on my ear:
  "Low lies the man, who scarce deigns Gray to praise,
  But from the tomb calls Blackmore's sleeping lays;
  A passport grants to Pomfret's dismal chimes,
  To Yalden's hymns, and Watts's holy rhimes;[22]
  By subtle doubts would Swift's fair fame invade,
  And round his brows the ray of glory shade;[23]
  With poignant taunt mild Shenstone's life arraigns,
  His taste contemns, and sweetly-flowing strains;
  At zealous Milton aims his tory dart,
  But in his Savage finds a moral heart;
  At great Nassau despiteful rancour flings,[24]
  But pension'd kneels ev'n to usurping kings:
  Rich, old and dying, bows his laurel'd head,
  And almost deigns to ask superfluous bread."[25]
    A sceptick once, he taught the letter'd throng
  To doubt the existence of fam'd Ossian's song;
  Yet by the eye of faith, in reason's spite,
  Saw ghosts and witches, preach'd up second sight:
  For o'er his soul sad Superstition threw
  Her gloom, and ting'd his genius with her hue.
    A coward wish, long stigmatiz'd by fame,
  Devotes Mæcenas to eternal shame;[38]
  Religious Johnson, future life to gain,
  Would ev'n submit to everlasting pain:
  How clear, how strong, such kindred colours paint
  The Roman epicure and Christian saint!
  O, had he liv'd in more enlighten'd times,
  When signs from heaven proclaim'd vile mortals' crimes,
  How had he groan'd, with sacred horrors pale,
  When Noah's comet shook her angry tail[39];
  That wicked comet, which Will Whiston swore
  Would burn the earth that she had drown'd before![40]
  Or when Moll Tosts, by throes parturient vext,
  Saw her young rabbets peep from Esdras' text![41]
  To him such signs, prepar'd by mystick grace,
  Had shewn the impending doom of Adam's race.
    But who to blaze his frailties feels delight,
  When the great author rises to our sight?
  When the pure tenour of his life we view,
  Himself the bright exemplar that he drew?
  Whose works console the good, instruct the wise,
  And teach the soul to claim her kindred skies.
    By grateful bards his name be ever sung,
  Whose sterling touch has fix'd the English tongue!
  Fortune's dire weight, the patron's cold disdain,
  "Shook off, as dew-drops from the lion's mane;"[42]
  Unknown, unaided, in a friendless state,[43]
  Without one smile of favour from the great;
  The bulky tome his curious care refines,
  Till the great work in full perfection shines;
  His wide research and patient skill displays
  What scarce was sketch'd in ANNA's golden days;[44]
  What only learning's aggregated toil
  Slowly accomplish'd in each foreign soil.[45]
  Yet to the mine though the rich coin he trace,
  No current marks his early essays grace;
  For in each page we find a massy store
  Of English bullion mix'd with Latian ore:
  In solemn pomp, with pedantry combin'd,
  He vents the morbid sadness of his mind;[46]
  In scientifick phrase affects to smile,
  Form'd on Brown's turgid Latin-English style:[47]
  Too oft the abstract decorates his prose,[48]
  While measur'd ternaries the periods close:
  But all propriety his Ramblers mock,
  When Betty prates from Newton and from Locke;
  When no diversity we trace between
  The lofty moralist and gay fifteen--[49]
  Yet genius still breaks through the encumbering phrase;
  His taste we censure, but the work we praise:
  There learning beams with fancy's brilliant dyes,
  Vivid as lights that gild the northern skies;
  Man's complex heart he bares to open day,
  Clear as the prism unfolds the blended ray:
  The picture from his mind assumes its hue;
  The shades too dark, but the design still true.
  Though Johnson's merits thus I freely scan,
  And paint the foibles of this wond'rous man;
  Yet can I coolly read, and not admire,
  When Learning, Wit and Poetry conspire
  To shed a radiance o'er his moral page,
  And spread truth's sacred light to many an age?
  For all his works with innate lustre shine,
  Strength all his own, and energy divine.
  Nor did philanthrophy alone expand
  His liberal heart, and ope his bounteous hand;
  His talents ev'n he gave to friendship's claim,[61]
  And by the gift imparted wealth and fame:
  His mind exhaustless sped its vivid force,
  Yet with unbated vigour held its course;
  As some fix'd star fulfills heaven's great designs,
  Lights other spheres, yet undiminish'd shines.
    How few distinguish'd of the studious train
  At the gay board their empire can maintain!
    Thus sings the Muse, to Johnson's memory just,
  And scatters praise and censure o'er his dust;
  For through each checker'd scene a contrast ran,
  Too sad a proof, how great, how weak is man!
  Though o'er his passions conscience held the rein,
  He shook at dismal phantoms of the brain:
  A boundless faith that noble mind debas'd,
  By piercing wit, energick reason grac'd:
  A generous Briton,[69] yet he seems to hope
  For James's grandson, and for James's Pope:
  With courtly zeal fair freedom's sons defames,[70]
  Yet, like a Hamden, pleads Ierne's claims.[71]
  Though proudly splenetick, yet idly vain,
  Accepted flattery, and dealt disdain.--
  E'en shades like these, to brilliancy ally'd,
  May comfort fools, and curb the Sage's pride.
    Yet Learning's sons, who o'er his foibles mourn,
  To latest time shall fondly view his urn;
  And wond'ring praise, to human frailties blind,
  Talents and virtue of the brightest kind;
  Revere the man, with various knowledge stor'd,
  Who science, arts, and life's whole scheme explor'd;
    Who firmly scorn'd, when in a lowly state,
  To flatter vice, or court the vain and great;[72]
  Whose heart still felt a sympathetick glow,
  Prompt to relieve man's variegated woe;
  Whose ardent hope, intensely fix'd on high,
  Saw future bliss with intellectual eye.
  Still in his breast Religion held her sway,
  Disclosing visions of celestial day;
  And gave his soul, amidst this world of strife,
  The blest reversion of eternal life:
  By this dispell'd, each doubt and horrour flies,
  And calm at length in holy peace he dies.
    The sculptur'd trophy, and imperial bust,
  That proudly rise around his hallow'd dust,
  Shall mould'ring fall, by Time's slow hand decay'd,
  But the bright meed of virtue ne'er shall fade.
  Exulting Genius stamps his sacred name,
  Enroll'd for ever in the dome of Fame.

THE END.

Footnotes:

[21] "A Scotchman must be a sturdy moralist, who does not prefer Scotland to truth." Johnson's
Journey to the Western Isles of Scotland. Johnson's Life of Watts.

The following specimen of their productions may be sufficient to enable the reader to judge
of their respective merits:

  "Alas, Jerusalem! alas! where's now
    Thy pristine glory, thy unmatch'd renown,
  To which the heathen monarchies did bow?
    Ah, hapless, miserable town!"

          Eleazar's Lamentation over Jerusalem, paraphrased by Pomfret.

  "Before the Almighty Artist fram'd the sky,
  Or gave the earth its harmony,
  His first command was for thy light;
  He view'd the lovely birth, and blessed it:
  In purple swaddling bands it struggling lay,
  Old Chaos then a chearful smile put on,
  And from thy beauteous form did first presage its own."

          Yalden's Hymn to Light.

  "My chearful soul now all the day
    Sits waiting here and sings;
  Looks through the ruins of her clay,
    And practises her wings.
  O, rather let this flesh decay,
    The ruins wider grow!
  Till glad to see the enlarged way,
    I stretch my pinions through."

          A Sight of Heaven in Sickness, by Isaac Watts. Boswell's Tour to the
Hebrides, p. 38.

The malevolent dullness of bigotry alone could have inspired Blackmore with these sentiments.
The fact is, that the Tale of a Tub is a continued panegyrick on the Church of England, and
a bitter satire on Popery, Calvinism, and every sect of dissenters. At the same time I am persuaded,
that every reader of taste and discernment will perceive in many parts of Swift's other writings
strong internal proofs of that style which characterises the Tale of a Tub; especially in the
Publick Spirit of the Whigs. It is well known, that he affected simplicity, and studiously
avoided any display of learning, except where the subject made it absolutely necessary. Temporary,
local, and political topicks compose too great a part of his works; but in a treatise that
admitted "more thinking, more knowledge," &c. he naturally exerted all his powers.--Let us
hear the author himself on this point.

"The greatest part of that book was finished above thirteen years since, (1696) which is eight
years before it was published. The author was then young, his invention at the height, and
his reading fresh in his head." And again: "Men should be more cautious in losing their time,
if they did but consider, that to answer a book effectually requireth more pains and skill,
more wit, learning and judgement, than were employed in writing it.--And the author assureth
those gentlemen, who have given themselves that trouble with him, that his discourse is the
product of the study, the observation, and the invention of several years; that he often blotted
out more than he left; and if his papers had not been a long time out of his possession, they
must still have undergone more severe corrections." An Apology for the Tale of a Tub.--With
respect to this work being the production of Swift, see his letter to the printer, Mr. Benjamin
Tooke, dated Dublin, June 29, 1710, and Tooke's Answer on the publication of the Apology and
a new edition of the Tale of a Tub. Hawkesworth's edition of Swift's Works, 8vo. vol. xvi. p. 145.

Doctor Hawkesworth mentions, in his preface, that the edition of A Tale of a Tub, printed in
1710, was revised and corrected by the Dean a short time before his understanding was impaired,
and that the corrected copy was, in the year 1760, in the hands of his kinsman, Mr. Deane Swift.

[24] Johnson. "I would tell truth of the two Georges, or of that scoundrel, King William."
Boswell's Tour to the Hebrides, p. 312.

[25] See his letter to Lord Thurlow, in which he seems to approve of the application (though
he was not previously consulted), thanks his Lordship for having made it, and even expresses
some degree of surprize and resentment on the proposed addition to his pension being refused.

[26] "If (added Dr. Johnson) GOD had never spoken figuratively, we might hold that he speaks
literally, when he says, "This is my body." Boswell's Tour, p. 67.--Here his only objection
to transubstantiation seems to rest on the style of the Scripture being figurative elsewhere
as well as in this passage. But I would rather have one of them, than one of yours, of the
two. Our fools, (continued he) write great books to prove that bread is God; but your booby
(he meant Tillotson) has wrote a long argument to prove that bread is bread.'" Richardsoniana,
p. 167.

[27] See his conversation with Lord Auchinleck. Boswell's Tour.
            Johnson's Meditations.

[30] "I returned home, but could not settle my mind. At last I read a
chapter. Then went down about six or seven, and eat two cross-buns."
            Meditations, p. 154.

[31] "I fasted, though less rigorously than at other times. I by negligence poured some milk
into my tea. Ibid. p. 146.--Yesterday, I fasted, as I have always, or commonly done, since
the death of Tetty; the fast was more painful than usual."

[32]
       "PURPOSES.
  To keep a journal. To begin this day. (Sept. 18th, 1766.)
  To spend four hours in study every day, and as much more as I can.
  To read a portion of Scripture in Greek every Sunday.
  To rise at eight.--Oct. 3d. Of all this I have done nothing." Ibid. Meditations.

[34] "I have never yet read the Apocrypha. When I was a boy I have read or heard Bel and the
Dragon." Meditations.

[37] From the following letter there is reason to apprehend that Dr. Adams would not support
Mr. S----n, if he should add this to the other singular anecdotes that he has published relative
to Dr. Johnson.

Mr. Urban,                                     Oxford, Oct. 22d, 1785. 

Mrs H. exclaimed, "Two next Spring! I assure you that he is very faithful
and kind. We all love him so much."

Charlie and Emma realized that the stranger was going to take away the
dog. They took on a somber and serious guise. Emma suffered quietly.
Charlie asserted that nobody was going to take away his dog.
"Think about your brother, Arthur. He has no one there to keep him
company. Don't you want to send Rover to keep him company?

"Yes,
I do. I do not want to let Rover go, though. Had
he been consulted about the publication, he would certainly have given
his voice against it: and he therefore hopes, that you will clear him,
in as publick a manner as you can, from being any way accessary to it.
      Wm. Adams. SENEC. EPIST. 101.

  Let me but live, the fam'd Mæcenas cries,
  Lame of both hands, and lame in feet and thighs;
  Hump-back'd, and toothless;--all convuls'd with pain,
  Ev'n on the cross,--so precious life remain.

Dr. Johnson, in his last illness, is said to have declared (in the presence of Doctors H. and
B.) that he would prefer a state of existence in eternal pain to annihilation.

[39] "This last comet (which appeared in the year 1680) I may well call the most remarkable
one that ever appeared; since, besides the former consideration, I shall presently shew, that
it is no other than that very comet, which came by the earth at the time of Noah's deluge,
and which was the cause of the same." Whiston's Theory of the Earth, p. 188.

[40] "Since 575 years appear to be the period of the comet that caused the deluge, what a learned
friend who was the occasion of my examination of this matter, suggests, will deserve to be
considered; viz. Whether the story of the phoenix, that celebrated emblem of the resurrection
in Christian antiquity, (that it returns once after five centuries, and goes to the altar and
city of the sun, and is there burnt; and another arises out of its ashes, and carries away
the remains of the former; &c.) be not an allegorical representation of this comet, which returns
once after five centuries, and goes down to the sun, and is there vehemently heated, and its
outward regions dissolved; yet that it flies off again, and carries away what remains after
that terrible burning; &c. and whether the conflagration and renovation of things, which some
such comet may bring on the earth, be not hereby prefigured, I will not here be positive: but
I own, that I do not know of any solution of this famous piece of mythology and hieroglyphics,
as this seems to be, that can be compared with it." Ibid. p. 196.

[41] "'Tis here foretold [by Esdras] that there should be signs in
the woman; and before all others this prediction has been verified in
the famous rabbet-woman of Surrey, in the days of King George
I.--This story has been so unjustly laughed out of countenance, that I
must distinctly give my reasons for believing it to be true, and
alleging it here as the fulfilling of this ancient prophecy before
us.--1st. The man-midwife, Mr. Howard of Godalmin in Surrey, a person
of very great honesty, skill and reputation in his profession,
attested it.--It was believed by King George to be real; and it was
also believed by my old friends the Speaker and Mr. Samuel Collet, as
they told me themselves, and was generally by sober persons in the
neighbourhood. Nay Mr. Molyneux, the Prince's Secretary, a very
inquisitive person, and my very worthy friend, assured me he had at
first so great a diffidence in the truth of the fact, and was so
little biassed by the other believers, even by the King himself, that
he would not be satisfied till he was permitted both to see and feel
the rabbet, in that very passage, whence we all come into this
world."
          Whiston's Memoirs, vol. ii. p. 110. Johnson's Preface to his edition
of Shakespeare. Preface to
Dr. Johnson's Dictionary.

[44] See Swift's letter to Lord Oxford for the institution of an academy to improve and fix
the English language.

[45] The great French and Italian Dictionaries were not the
productions of an individual, but were compiled by a body of
Academicians in each country. Spiritualist
          doctors and mediums rely upon Indians.

This naturally occurring oil is flammable and was useful for helping with the campfire, however
when it was burned inside it produced a horrible smoke and foul smell with which to conjure.

Up
until then whale oil was usually used for lubrication and illumination, but this was getting
more expensive and out of the reach of common people. It looked as if there was a trust for these
whales.

Eventually a bottle of this new oil was sent to Yale for
Prof Silliman to analyse.

[48] In the Ramblers the abstract too often occurs instead of the concrete;--one of Dr. Johnson's
peculiarities.

[50] Dr. Johnson's extraordinary facility of composition is well known from many circumstances.
He wrote forty pages of the Life of Savage in one night. He composed seventy lines of his Imitation
of the Tenth Satire of Juvenal, and wrote them down from memory, without altering a word. In
the Prologue on opening Drury-Lane theatre, he changed but one word, and that in compliment
to Mr. Garrick. Some of his Ramblers were written while the printer's messenger was waiting
to carry the copy to the press. Many of the Idlers were written at Oxford; Dr. Johnson often
began his talk only just in time not to miss the post, and sent away the paper without reading
it over.

[51] See his admirable Lives of the Poets, and particularly his Disquisition on metaphysical
and religious poetry.

[52] See his Review of Soame Jennings's Essay on the Origin of Evil; a masterpiece of composition,
both for vigour of style and precision of ideas.

[53] Pope's or rather Bolingbroke's system was borrowed from the Arabian metaphysicians.

[54] The scheme of the Essay on Man was given by Lord Bolingbroke to Pope.

[55] See that sublime and beautiful Tale, The Prince of Abyssinia; and The Rambler, No. 65,
204, &c. &c.

[56] "The world is disposed to call this a discovery of Dr.
Franklin's, (from his paper inserted in the Philosophical
Transactions) but in this they are much mistaken. Pliny, Plutarch, and
other naturalists were acquainted with it."--"Ea natura est olei, ut
lucem afferat, ac tranquillar omnia, etiam mare, quo non aliud
elementum implacabilius."
          Memoirs of the Society of Manchester.

[57] London, a Satire, and The Vanity of Human Wishes, are both imitations of Juvenal. On the
publication of London in 1738, Mr. Pope was so much struck by it, that he desired Mr. Dodsley,
his bookseller, to find out the author. Dodsley having sought him in vain for some time, Mr.
Pope said, he would very soon be deterré. Afterwards Mr. Richardson the painter found out Mr.
Johnson, and Mr. Pope recommended him to Lord Gower.

[58] See the Prologue spoken by Mr. Garrick in 1747, on the opening of Drury-Lane theatre.

[59] "Inter ignotæ strepitus loquelæ."--Ode to Mrs. Thrale.

[60] The dignified and affecting letter written by him to the King in the name of Doctor Dodd,
after his condemnation, is justly, and, I believe, universally admired. His benevolence, indeed,
was uniform and unbounded.----I have been assured, that he has often been so much affected
by the sight of several unfortunate women, whom he has seen almost perishing in the streets,
that he has taken them to his own house; had them attended with care and tenderness; and, on
their recovery, clothed, and placed them in a way of life to earn their bread by honest industry. 

Various Data - collects recipes and likes to prescribe things for colds and such. Doesn't like
lawyers. Likes onions. Likes bull finches and canaries. Collects seals and goes to chemistry
lectures while sitting with her mouth open. At that time
Dr. Johnson was himself engaged in writing the Rambler, and could ill afford to make a present
of his labours. White population was only seven hundred thousand less, while black and white population
was one million more than all the free states.  The North was only half the size of the surface of
the States: two hundred and seventy thousand miles square, with only
one hundred thousand square miles in the allocation of territory dedicated
to freedom.

With equal representation in the United States Senate, and firm control
of all branches of government, the prospect of the oligarchy to success
was brilliant.

In every nation gets the first possession aristocracy, organized
the first, and proceeds deliberately to develop and manage the government.

People are always suspicious, slow, late of the organization, and it seems that the success
or failure that led to it by Providence than themselves.

This government established the first slave aristocracy, and in 1820 appeared boldly on the sand,
claiming the superiority and threatens the ruin of the republic in
the event that the failure of his plans.

Had managed so well that there was no division in their ranks, and for the last forty years has
advanced in solid column of repeated attacks on freedom.
The people, as usual, did not suspect the existence of this concentrated power until 1820. They
made a brave fight, then the militias against the aristocracy, and compelled it to recognize
a battle drawn up by the admission of Maine to balance Missouri, and establishing a line of
compromise, which would leave all the territory north of latitude
36 Â° 30 'consecrated to freedom.

Slave Power submitted by anger, with the intention of breaking the negotiation as soon as it was
strong enough, and continues its relentless struggle for power.

Is determined to gain possession of the United States Senate, make it a noble house, control
over her foreign policy, the Executive and the Supreme Court, and with this advantage, told
the House could always manage of Representatives and rule the nation.

The key to any political policy of the slave power through the last
forty years is the effort to capture the United States Senate, and
holding it by bringing a larger number of slave states.

So well did they play this card, until 1850, maintained an equal Senate representation and, with the
help of allies in the North and political master the skill of the aristocracy, controlled by our
foreign policies, maintains its own representatives in all the major courts of Europe, made
peace or war at will; Executive achieved through a veto over appointments, and has tried to fill the
Supreme Court with men in favor of his policy, but never the House of Representatives was able
to pass a bill without your consent.

    Under the reign of the last forty years "of the Slave Power, the
United States Senate has been a farce higher in the Republic of the
crown and the House of Lords in the British Empire.

In fact, how well you did aristocracy play its role, which was supposed by the world as the
American Government and news that the people of the United States
had refused in 1860 to record their mandates, was received abroad
with the same awe and indignation, as if there had been a revolt of
the subjects of any European nation against their rulers anointed.

But despite these great advantages from the start - despite his incredible
political activity and admirable concentration, the slave-owning aristocracy
was defeated by the people.

How this became more interesting is the narrative of modern history.

Never has the inherent superiority of a democratic aristocratic order
of society been so magnificently vindicated as during the last forty
years of our national race.

 Lord Hervey, The Difference Between Verbal and Practical
Virtue (1742).

126. Le Lutrin: an Heroick Poem, Written Originally in French by Monsieur Boileau: Made English
by N. O. (1682).

1967-1968

127-128. Charles Macklin, A Will and No Will, or a Bone for the Lawyers (1746). The New Play
Criticiz'd, or The Plague of Envy (1747). Introduction by Jean B. Kern.

129. Lawrence Echard, Prefaces to Terence's Comedies (1694) and Plautus's Comedies (1694).
Introduction by John Barnard.

130. Henry More, Democritus Platonissans (1646). Introduction by P. G. Stanwood.

131. In Abbey hill there was a milliner, a drapre, a confectioner, a butcher, baker and tea dealer,
all native to Abbey Hill.

Shopping in Abbey Hill was like being royalty, less a financial gain was to be had, but truly
an experience worth having.

Subsequent publications may be checked in the annual prospectus.

Publications of the first fifteen years of the Society (numbers 1-90) are available in paperbound
units of six issues at $16.00 per unit, from the Kraus Reprint Company, 16 East 46th Street,
New York, N.Y. 10017. 

The multi sided appearance of the exterior is due in part to the smaller tower which once leaned
against it, and probably formed the apex of a wing running out from the old castle of the
Burggrafs. The BurggrÃ¤fliche Burg stood below, according to Alexander, southwest and west of this
point.

It was burned down in 1420 during the revolution, and the ruined
remains of it are supposed to be traceable in the eminence, now the
overgrown landscape, through which a sort of ravine, closed in on
either side by built-up walls, has just brought us from the town to
the Vestner Thor.

The Burggraf's Castle would appear to have been so situated as to protect the approach to the Imperial
Castle (Kaiserburg). The exact extent of the former we can not now
determine.

Meisterlin refers to it as a little fort.
There is no doubt that it reached from the Five-cornered tower to
the Walpurgiskapelle.

There is reference to a small church set east of the open space called the Freiung, is repeatedly
spoken of as being on the property of the Burggrafs.

Besides their castle , which was held at first as a fief of the Empire,
and afterward came to be regarded as their personal property, the
Burggrafs were also entrusted with the keeping of the tower which
commanded the entrance to the Castle rock on the country side, perhaps
near the site of the present Vestner Thor.

One should note the guard door that was attached to the tower, the
lower portion of which remains to this day, and is called the Bailiff's
Dwelling (Burgamtmannswohnung).

The exact relationship of the Burggraf to the town on the one hand,
and to the Empire on the other, can be very confusing.

Originallyit was believed he was merely an Imperial officer, administering Imperial estates, and
looking after Imperial interests. But more recently it is thought he was part of the royal family.
 Olsen levers
use a Piston and a Diaphraigm to measure the work done to determine
weight.

There are multiple cylinders. The first cylinder is the largest with a 25 in radius, The smallest
is less than a 3 inch radius. then there is a weighing beam that is ballanced upon them, which
itself is a set weight and is not weighed but is used to help in measuring additional weights up to
1,000,000 lbs.

  Misprints corrected:
    "ther" corrected to "their" (footnote 23)
    "Crticiz'd" corrected to "Criticiz'd" (advertisements)

