As Saturday came, the Rev. Dr. Jebb received an unexpected call from a very regular caller--the
Rev. James Hartigan--to ask if Dr. Jebb would kindly take both sermons on Sunday next. Blazing
Star had a puff on his nigh hock, inside, a little above the leg-wart; it might not amount
to much, but it required a good deal of attention every few hours, both day and night, to prevent
the possibility of its becoming serious from neglect.

CHAPTER XXVII

The Start

September came, with all the multiplied glories of the Black Hills--calm, beautiful weather
in a calm and beautiful country. For days back, there had been long strings of Indians, with
their families and camp outfits, moving down the trail between the hills, bound all for the
great raceground at Fort Ryan. Lodges were set up every day. Each of the half-dozen tribes
formed its own group. Ranchmen came riding in, followed by prairie schooners or round-up wagons,
for their camps; motley nondescripts from Deadwood and places round about. There were even
folk from Bismarck and Pierre and, of course, all Cedar Mountain and the soldiers from the Fort.

"Sure, I didn't know there were so many people," was Hartigan's remark to Belle, as they rode
on the morning of the fifteenth about the camp with its different kinds of life. Then, after
a long pause and gaze around, he added, in self-examining tone: "Faith, Belle, it seems to
me that, being a Preacher, I ought to get up and denounce the whole thing, preach right now
and evermore against it, and do all I can to stop it, but--heaven help me if I am a hypocrite--I
don't feel that way at all; I just love it, I love to see all these people here, I love to
see the horses, and I wouldn't miss that race if it were the last thing on earth I was to look
on. Oh, I haven't been betting, Belle," he hastened to explain as he saw the look of dread
on her face. "I've kept clear of it all, but God only knows what it means to me."

"Never fear, Belle," he went on, "I won't ride in a race, I won't bet; I've given my word."

"Oh, Jim, you are a riddle; you are not one, you are two men; and they fight the whole time.
But I know the wiser one is winning and I think the best friend you ever had was that big fellow
that threatened you with the 'bone-rot' if ever you broke your word. I believe in you more
and more," and impulsively she laid her hand on his with a warmth that provoked such instant
response that she smote her horse and swung away--fearful of a situation for which she was
not ready.

At three o'clock, an officer from the Fort rode over to Red Cloud's lodge and notified him
that in one hour the race was to begin. The War-chief grunted.

At four, the crowd was dense around the track, and the country near seemed quite deserted.
Near the starting post, which was also the finish, were a huge crowd and a small army of mounted
men. Suddenly shots were heard, and a great shout went up from the Indian camp; then forth
came Red Cloud, in all his war paint and eagle feathers, followed by other warriors; and carefully
led in the middle of the procession was the famous buckskin cayuse, sleek, clean-limbed, but
decorated with eagle feathers in mane and tail, with furry danglers on his fetlocks and a large
red hand painted on each shoulder and hip. He had no saddle and was led with an ordinary hackima
of hair rope around his lower jaw. He walked alertly and proudly, but showed no unusual evidence
of pace or fire.

Then a cannon boomed at the Fort, and from the gate there issued another procession, soldiers
chiefly, following their Colonel. First among them came a bugler, the officers, then next a
trooper, leading the white hope--the precious Red Rover. His groomed and glossy coat was shining
in the sun; his life and power were shown in every movement as he pranced at times, in spite
of the continual restraint of his trainer, who was leading him. On the other side, rode Peaches,
the little English jockey. It was a bitter pill to the Americans that they should have to trust
their fortunes to an English rider, but all their men were too heavy, except Little Breeches,
and, he, alas, had fallen into the hands of the whiskey mongers. The ladies of the garrison
rode close behind; and last, came the regimental band, in full thump and blare. As they neared
the starting post, the band was hushed and the bugle blew a fanfare; then, with the Colonel
leading, the racer was taken to the starting post.

Red Cloud was there calmly waiting with his counsellors and braves and the buckskin cayuse.

"Are you ready?" shouted Colonel Waller.

"Ho," said Red Cloud, and with an imperious wave of his hand he indicated "Go ahead!"

The light racing pad was put on Red Rover, the jockey mounted and rode him at a canter for
a hundred yards and back, amid an outburst of applause as the splendid creature showed his
pace. Then the groom approached and tightened the cinch.

The buckskin cayuse was brought to the front. Red Cloud made a gesture. A sixteen-year-old
boy, armed with a quirt, appeared; an Indian gave him a leg up, and, naked to the breech clout
on the naked horse, he sat like a statue. Jim got a strange thrill as he recognized him for
the vigil-keeper of Cedar Mountain.

"Well," grumbled the Colonel, as he noted the jockey, "that's a twenty-five pound handicap
on us, but I guess we can stand it." Yet, when they saw the two horses together, there was
less disparity in size than they had supposed. But there was something about the buckskin that
caught Hartigan's eye and made him remark: "It isn't going to be such a walk-over as our fellows
think." And the trainer of Red Rover, as he noted the round barrel, clean limbs, and flaring
nostrils of the buckskin, had for a moment just a guilty twinge as he recalled how lax he had
been in the training after that run at Yellowbank Canyon.

But all was ready. The white men won the toss for choice and got the inside track; not that
it mattered very much, except at the turn. The crowd was sent back to the lines, the riders
held the racers to the scratch and, at a pistol crack, they bounded away.

Those that expected to see something spectacular at the start were disappointed. The English
jockey leaned forward, touched Red Rover with his whip, and alongside the Indian boy on the
buckskin did the very same thing. The Indian boy smiled and the Englishman responded, but in
a superior way. He felt it was almost unfair to run against such a child, and in such a race,
which wasn't a real race at all, in spite of the heavy stakes.

Thus they rode side by side at a good pace for half a mile, during which the buckskin drifted
behind a little, now a length, now a length and a half. Next the copper-coloured jockey touched
him up and, before the white man knew it, the bounding buckskin closed again and came right
up, but now on the inside track. If the Englishman had not felt so confident, he would have
stopped this well-known trick. It might not have been easy, since there were no lines or posts
except the turning point, but it could have been prevented by deft man[oe]uvring. However,
the Indian was now abreast on the inside and as the Englishman watched him he concluded that
this child of nature was not so simple as he looked. He comforted himself with the thought
that the other would need all he could get out of jockeying.

CHAPTER XXVIII

The Finish

The first mile was covered in good, but not remarkable time. Then they came to the turning
point. There was just the chance of changing places here, for the inner horse had the disadvantage
of the sharper turn, but the Indian boy made sure by dropping back a half length and the turn
was made without a reverse. After them now with shouts of joy went all the mounted men who
had been waiting and rode in a thundering charge, yelling and cheering. The white jockey knew
now that he was not dealing with a fool. The red boy, though not so well mounted, was just
as good a rider as himself, and twenty pounds lighter, besides being without leathers, which
raised the handicap to fully twenty-five pounds. In that first half mile on the home stretch
the buckskin still was head and neck behind. Then the riders put forth all their skill and
each did his best to call forth every ounce of strength and every spurt of speed in his mount.

The Indian boy let off his native yell and cried: "Ho, Huya--Huya--Huya!" and the keen quirt
flashed and the buckskin flew.

"Ho, Rover! good boy, git, git!" and the white man smote the shining flank; and both the noble
brutes responded as they had not done before. The sense of play was gone. It was now the real
and desperate race. The gazing thousands ranged about knew that, and the mingled roar of all
their voices rose to a mighty booming sound.

"Ho, Rover! Run, boy, run!"

"Huya, Shunguna, Ho! Ho! Yeh! Yeh! Yeh!" and the redskin rider smote hard those heaving flanks.

Flash, flash, those shadowy hoofs; thud, thud, upon the plain; the buckskin's neck forged slowly
on, now lapped the red-gold shoulder of his foe. The redskin shrieked, the riding mob behind
gave voice and rode like madmen. The racers plunged and plunged, the riders lay down almost
to their necks, plying their quirts and shouting words of urge.

The buckskin still won inches on the race, but the Rover led. The last, the final furlong was
at hand. The riders yelled, the rabble yelled, guns were fired in mad excitement, and all restraint
was gone. It was win--win--burst--die--but win! And never jockeys harder rode and never horses
better ran; the test was fair. Red Rover did his best, yet his rival's legs in that last spurt
moved as a rabbit's legs, a maze of shadowy pounding limbs, and--sickening sight--the buckskin
with the copper rider forged still more ahead--a neck, half a length ahead--and the race was won.

       *       *       *       *       *

Peaches was in tears. "Colonel," he said, in a broken voice, "it was that twenty-five pound
handicap did it; it wasn't fair."

The Colonel growled something about "a lot of fools to let up on the training after that Yellowbank
trial."

Hartigan was standing near; gloomy, but not so gloomy as the rest; and when there came a chance
to be heard, he said: "Colonel, once I see a horse close to, in fair daylight, I can always
remember him afterward. I've been looking over their buckskin cayuse, and it's not the same
one we raced in the Yellowbank."

The Colonel turned quickly around. "Are you sure?"

"Absolutely certain," was the answer.

"My goodness--you are right. I distrusted the whole business from the start. You are right;
they fooled us on a stool-pigeon; this whole thing was a put-up job. The simple Red man!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The "perchers" were gathered at the blacksmith shop next afternoon. "Well," said Shives, "I've
done fifteen dollars' worth of work to-day and haven't taken in a cent." The audience grunted
and he went on. "Every tap of it was for broken-down bums trying to get out of town--skinned
by the simple Red man. Horses shod, tires set, bolts fixed, all kinds of cripplements. All
they want is help to get out, get out; at any price get out. Well, it'll do you good, the whole
caboodle of ye. Ye started out to do, and got done--everlastingly soaked." The blacksmith chuckled.
"Serve you all right. I'm glad ye got it."

As Hartigan appeared, swinging a big stick and singing "The Wearing of the Green," Shives asked:
"Well, Jim, how much did you lose?"

"Nothing," sang Hartigan cheerfully; "I don't bet"; and he went on singing, "'Tis the most
distressful country this that ever yet was seen."

"Lucky dog! All the sports round this neck o' the woods are ruined. They say no gentleman will
bet on a sure thing. H'm, maybe not. Well, fellows, cheer up; no man ever yet was made, until
he had been ruined a couple of times; and all I hope is that the Reds will get up another race
and soak ye to the limit. Then maybe some o' ye will brace up and be men; but I dunno."

"Guess they've soaked us to the limit now," was the general voice of those assembled.

Poor Higginbotham had gone in rather strong for him, in spite of his wife, and there was no
blue sky in his world, or prospect of it.

Then they turned on Hartigan, who was going through the movements of singlestick, on the open
floor. "Was he white, or wasn't he? How could he stand by and see the whole settlement skinned
alive by Red Injins when he had the game in his own hands? Why didn't he enter Blazing Star?
He didn't seem to take much interest in the affair, probably he wanted the Red skins to win."
The jibe stung Jim to the quick; he ceased his exuberant exercise; the song died on his lips,
and he strode away in silence.

CHAPTER XXIX

The Riders

It is the continual boast of the cowboys that they are the best riders on earth. It is the
continual boast also of Cossack, Boer, Australian, Gaucho, and all who live on and by the horse.
And when we sift the claim of each of those named we find that it is founded wholly on this,
that they can sit on the back of any steed, however wild, and defy all its efforts to dislodge
them. All their standards are designed to show the power of the man to overpower the horse.
But there is one very large consideration that seems not to enter their consciousness at all,
and that is how to get the best out of the horse--to develop and utilize, not crush its power.
We undoubtedly find this idea best established in the riding schools of Europe. In these grammar
schools violence is forbidden, almost unknown. For a man to fight with his horse would be a
disgrace; to abuse or over-ride him--a shame; to lade him with a three-pound bit and a thirty-pound
saddle--a confession of inability to control or stay on. In every part of the world where the
horse has been developed, it has been in exact ratio with the creed of the riding schools.
No one that has seen both classes of riders can have a doubt that the best horsemen in the
world are those of Europe, who control the horse with skill--not brute force. The cowboys are
mere broncho-busters.

Hartigan had gathered not a little of true horse learning in his early days, and he was disgusted
now to see how lightly and cheaply the westerner held his horse. "Break him down and get another"
was the method in vogue; and the test of a rider was, "Can he ride a horse to death?" The thirty-pound
saddle used was an evidence of the intent and a guarantee of the result. As soon as he could
afford it, Jim sent back to Chicago for an English pad, the kind he was used to, and thus he
cut his riding weight down by nearly twenty pounds. Then there arrived at Fort Ryan a travelling
inspector, who spent a month teaching the men the latest ideas in the care of horses. Among
the tricks was the "flat ambush." This is how it is done: With reins in the left hand, and
that hand in the mane at the withers, you stand at the nigh shoulder; lift the nigh front foot
in your right hand till the hoof is near the horse's elbow; pull the horse toward you with
the left hand in the mane; talk gently; pull, and press. If your horse trusts you, he will
gradually bend over toward you; lower his body to the ground; and at last lie flat, head and
all, with the animal's legs away from you. Behind the horse's body the rifleman may squat,
shoot from cover, and have an ample breastwork if the animal is trained to "stand the gun."
It is a pretty trick, though of less practical use than was expected. It is, however, a quick
measure of the horse's confidence in the rider; and it speaks well for the 99th Cavalry that
more than half the horses learned it in a week. This was a new game to Hartigan, and he found
a fresh joy in it as an excuse for fussing around the stable and playing with his horse.

October came in with glory on the hills. The plains were golden in their autumn grass, and
on a wonderful day in the early part of the month Hartigan and Belle went riding down the canyon.

Belle had a scheme for coördinating their church work with that of the Baptists and Presbyterians,
both represented now in their town of fifteen hundred inhabitants. But before she could get
it laid before Jim, he was extolling the quick responsiveness of Blazing Star, and must needs
demonstrate the latest accomplishment the horse had learned. That over, Belle resurrected her
plan; but a gunshot at Fort Ryan switched the current of his thoughts to the eventful race.

Belle changed the subject and unfolded a scheme for getting all the Bylow children into the
Cedar Mountain school the coming winter. They had just come to a little twelve-foot cut-bank
gully, and Jim exclaimed: "Now, Belle, just watch him take it," and over they sailed, the perfection
of grace. "I tell you, Belle," he went on, "it was a great idea to get that eastern pad. I've
cut down my riding weight nearly twenty pounds by dropping all that gear. Blazing Star can
clear six inches higher and go a foot farther in a jump, and I'll bet it gives him one hundred
feet in a mile run."

Again Belle harked back to the school project. "It could be done for half the teacher's salary
and every one of the neglected children might get a chance. It all depends on the attitude
that School Trustee Higginbotham takes. My idea is to approach him through Hannah. She has
a mighty level head, and if you and Dr. Jebb----"

"Oh! look at this coyote!" ejaculated Hartigan. "I must give him a run"; and away he went.
For half a mile there was an open flat, and the superior speed of the horse reduced the distance,
at a very rapid rate. But the coyote reached a gully and disappeared with the quickness and
cleverness of its race. Hartigan came galloping back.

Belle was looking amused and also worried. "Oh, Jim," she said, "I don't know what I am going
to do with you. You won't talk Church, you won't talk school, you won't talk shop. All your
thoughts are centred on horses, hunting--and coyotes," she added with a laugh.

"Sure, Belle, I never see a coyote run without thinking of a night I spent on the Cheyenne,
when that puling little English lord spent the whole night shivering up a tree, to hear me
and Little Breeches snoring on the ground and he thought it was wolves eating us up, because
a little while before a coyote yelled in the bushes----" and again he was off in a racy account
of those thrilling moments.

"Jim," she said, "I am going to say nothing but 'yes' and 'no' for a while, until you exhaust
all your horse talk. Then I am going to make one more effort."

"A jack rabbit, by the powers!" Sure enough, a big white jack leaped up and darted away. A
jack is speedier than a coyote, so Hartigan could not resist. "Hi, Hi, Hi!" he shouted to Blazing
Star; and with flat hand on the croup, he raised the speed to top gear in a few jumps.

It was a fair sight to behold, and to many a cow-man it would have been information. The jack
rabbit, next to the antelope, is the speediest quadruped on the plains. The cowboy does not
try to follow the jack rabbit, but the blooded racer did. In a quarter of a mile the horse
was nearly on him. He dodged like chain lightning--dodged as his life had taught him to dodge
before the coyote and the hawk. The horse slowed up; the rabbit crossed a ridge; and when the
rider reined upon the top, the jack was no more seen.

But just ahead was a finer sight. A band of antelope sprang forward with their white sterns
shining. Of all the quadrupeds on the Plains, the antelope is the speediest. The greyhound
can catch the hare; but is left a hopeless laggard by the swift-footed courser. No mounted
Indian ever dreamed of overtaking the antelope in open chase. In speed it stands the highest
in the West. Jim had often wished to match his steed against these plains-born coursers; but,
hitherto, although antelope were often seen, they were protected by rough gullies or boulders
or badger holes. A band of antelope on a level, open stretch was a glorious chance.

Bending low over his horse's neck, he shouted: "Now, Blazing Star, go it; ho! boy, go it!"
and struck the flank behind for clear interpretation. The horse sprang forth at speed. The
bounding wild things, just ahead, laid back their ears and went so fast that not a leg was
seen, only a whizzing, blurred maze. And Blazing Star took in the thought and travelled faster
and faster. The furlong start they had began to shrink.

"Good boy!" the rider shouted in elation. "Go it! go it, Blazing Star!" The antelope spurted--for
a moment held their own; then, weakening at a mile, they lost so fast that Jim yelled and swung
his hat, and in a little more the herd was overtaken. Fear seemed to rob them of power as Blazing
Star dashed in among them. The bright-eyed pronghorns swerved; and the band split wide, and
the horse dashed through. As he wheeled and galloped back, he shouted: "You saw that, Belle?
You saw it? It has never been done before. In a fair race, on open stretch, they had two hundred
yards' start and I caught them in a mile. Now I know what Blazing Star is. No creature on legs
can beat him; no horse in the West can match him."

In a little while the riders turned again to Cedar Mountain. Hartigan led the way--and the
talk. It was a stirring ride, but Belle's face wore a worried look when he left her.

CHAPTER XXX

The Fire

Every new town in America has the same set routine of experience. It springs up on land selected
and laid out by a real estate speculator. The flimsiest and most combustible of buildings are
rushed up. When the town has about five thousand inhabitants and these fire-trap buildings
are close enough to burn one another, a fire breaks out and sweeps the whole thing away, destroying
human lives, valuable stock, and priceless records; after which begins the epoch of brick buildings
and fire prevention.

Cedar Mountain had not reached the size or compactness required for the wipe-out when its baptism
of fire took place. Hartigan was roused in the night by a noise outside. Going to the window,
he saw the sky filled with the glare of fire. As quickly as possible, he dressed and ran forth,
becoming deeply agitated when he found that the fire was in the hotel whose stable housed Blazing
Star. It was with a dreadful heartsink that he ran there. The stable was smoking, but not yet
afire, and, with a thankful heart, he hurried Blazing Star forth, got him away to a safe place,
and returned just in time to see the stable and all its immovable contents go up in a ruddy
roar as the hay and straw took fire.

There were no human lives lost; nor any dwellings other than the hotel--for there was a clear
space around that fire-trap and there had been no wind--but it was a valid baptism of fire.
It resulted in the organization of a Volunteer Fire Brigade, and it also resulted in Hartigan's
determination to erect a stable of his own, where he could have his horse under his eye, day
and night. What he built was not a large stable, only ten by twelve feet, of rough pine lumber,
with tar-paper weather-proofing and no floor, but he did it entirely with his own hands at
a material cost of twelve dollars; and he put his soul into it. There were two stalls, one
for Blazing Star and one for supplies. There was much good-humoured jesting at the "Horse Preacher"
while the stable was building and the story went the rounds that he often used the empty stall
for a study, in preference to the silent little room in the house. In any case, he hand-picked
the hay to guard against the poisonous loco-weed, and washed the oats, to shut out any possibility
of smut.

Immediately after the fire Higginbotham began to talk business to Jim. A mutual affection had
grown up and the little agent and his wife had early become prominent in the church. As deacon,
Higginbotham rendered good service, although it was noted that his judgment was always best
after he had talked matters over at home. He was not averse to using his church connection
for business purposes. In fact, he had been heard to say that the Church itself was chiefly
a huge fire insurance company, taking risks for the next world instead of this. On the morning
after the fire, he was up betimes to sail with the wind, to take advantage of the stir-up that
the public mind had got; and he secured a lot of new business.

"Now, Mr. Hartigan, why don't you insure that horse of yours? Just think where you would have
been if you hadn't got him out in time last night. Why, I knew a man who bought a horse for
fifty dollars in the morning, insured him for two hundred and fifty dollars at noon, and next
night he was burnt up. The very next day he got his check for two hundred and fifty dollars.
That's the way our company does business; all in twenty-four hours."

The idea of a joyful profit out of Blazing Star's incinerated remains was distinctly unpleasant,
much like asking a mother to realize on her baby, and Hartigan took out no policy, but it had
the effect of making him try to set a market value on the horse.

It was late in the season now, October was nearly gone; but still he and Belle rode forth together.

"What is next Sunday's lesson?" was Belle's very usual question. "Well," said Hartigan, "I
came across a text that filled me with joy. What a picture, Belle! Just think of that royal
stiff strapped square across the backs of four fine horses, all bridled together, and then
driven madly across the desert, through the land of the freebooting Arabs, who would be more
than apt to seize the corpse and hold it for a ransom. What a race! You bet they had horses
then! They were Arab stock all right. I wonder no artist ever put that royal funeral on canvas.
How does it strike you, Belle?"

"Wild enough and picturesque enough for the Black Hills; but I don't seem to get the lesson,
I might almost add another text to your list: 'A horse is a vain thing for safety.'" Then,
suddenly, she said: "Have you seen Colonel Waller lately?"

"No."

"Is it too far to ride there?"

"Not if you can stand it."

"I can; but I wish you'd tighten my cinch."

Jim was well pleased to be her groom; and, hauling on the strap, his hat tipped off and his
head touched her knee, she laid her hand on his head and a thrill went through him. Belle knew
the game and the risks, in spite of her very old-fashioned parents. All along, she had held
him back to a certain line; even though it was clearly understood to both of them and all their
world that he was her avowed and accepted lover. She gloried in his physical charm and power.
She took a woman's pride in his devotion, and maybe, most of all, in her sovereignty over him;
she realized more clearly than any one else, how completely he was her plastic material. A
mighty engine, indeed, he had need of a skilful engineer. A splendid steed of rarest power
and gift, his power and gift were useless, even worse, without the deft control of the rider,
who should become in a sense his soul, as the captain is the soul of a great ship. And Belle
had come to know that the best work she could ever hope to do was as the captain of this ship.

And what was to hinder? Belle knew; her soft brown eyes could see much farther through the
stone wall than could his piercing eyes of blue. She estimated at its true potency the passion
that now threatened to wreck his career. A lover of horses always, an absolute worshipper of
Blazing Star, he was barely held in restraint by his promises and fears of Church discipline,
and Belle foresaw a time when his wild, impulsive nature would break out. He would surely be
swept away by the wild currents of which the horse race is the vortex; and, having once lost
hold, he would go the pace, break all rules, and end...? She knew, but dared not say.

Winter would soon be on them and, with that, the end of their happy rides together on the plains.
The different life enforced would put them more apart--cut off these saddle tête-à-têtes, and
with all the happenings, past or future, in her mind Belle was ready for a woman's game; the
time had come to play it. That tightening of the cinch was not by chance.

They rode a race for a mile and Jim gallantly held back his mount so that she should keep the
lead. They passed a slough along whose edge the gentians still were blue; she wanted some,
and when he brought them she patted his hand, and gave the flowers an honoured place. Suddenly
a coyote appeared and she raced with him on its trail till it was lost to view. She called
forth all her horsemanship to match his, and make him feel their perfect harmony; and as they
rode side by side, she laid her hand on his arm to call attention to some creature of the plains
when at other times she would merely have spoken. It thrilled and stirred him, so he tried
to follow up this willingness for touch. But she swung away each time. Then at a later keep-your-distance
hint she gaily held out a hand to him and teased him by eluding his grasp. But not for long;
with a great spurt he swept upon her, seized the tantalizing hand now accidentally bared, and
the thrill of her touch, the joy of acceptation in that tiny squeeze, went warmly kindling
through him. His colour came, his bright blue eyes grew brighter, he glowed in body and in
spirit. Never before had she seemed so absolutely fascinating; never before had he felt how
much she was to him, how wholly desirable and lovely she was, how much his measure of all good
things. But he was such a boy in this side of life that he had never said one open word of
love. He was as shy as most youths are at sixteen.

They were half way to the Fort now, the level plain spreading for a mile about them. There
was no chance of interruption. Their horses had drawn close together again. She said, "Look
at the bruise on my hand from last week's ride through the brush." He seized the hand; there
was no bruise to be seen, but he bent his head and fervently kissed the place.

"Jim, do you really care so much?" she asked, with a sidelong glance and a little flush.

"Oh, Belle, you know--you must know----" And he choked.

"I wouldn't like to see you hold any other woman's hand that way." Their horses' shoulders
rubbed and she accidentally swayed toward him; she seemed to lose her balance. In a minute
his strong arms were about her; a great emotion swept him and all his ardent soul was aflame.
With sudden abandon of all restraint, he showered on her lips a lover's passionate kisses,
and forced his unwonted tongue and lips to shape the old refrain: "I love you; I love you;
I love you better than my life."

She hid her burning face, but he held her tight, and the horses moved as one.

"Will you, Belle? Will you be my wife? I can't do anything without you. You have saved me from
ruin. I can't do anything without you."

A jack rabbit sprang from under their feet, and Blazing Star, true to his training, darted
away; and so the pair were forced apart. But, in a moment, Jim was back.

"Will you, Belle? Won't you take me?" He seized her hand and would have sought her lips again,
but she held him back.

"I will, Jim, on one condition. Will you promise?"

"Anything. I'll promise anything I have or can be. Tell me what it is, Belle?"

"I will not tell you now; but I will before we get back to Cedar Mountain. Now let us ride";
and she touched her pony with the quirt, and led at a gallop which ended only at the house
of Colonel Waller in Fort Ryan.

CHAPTER XXXI

Love in The Saddle

"Here come Apollo and Psyche," said Mrs. Waller, as she glimpsed them from the window. The
Colonel was just leaving for his office and called to them, "Good morning! Go on in; Mrs. Waller
is at home. I'll be back in half an hour."

Already there was a fire in the house, for the nights were chilly, and when the Colonel returned,
they were sitting around it in the parlour.

"I want to see the stable," said Belle, so forth they went together, Hartigan with Mrs. Waller
leading, and Belle with the Colonel. She lingered till the others were out of easy hearing,
then led up to the subject of the horse race.

"It's a pretty sore subject yet," answered the Colonel. "Most of my men are pinching their
families on half pay to work off their debts to those wily redskins."

"Do they have to pay?" said Belle.

"Well, these are debts of honour, you know, and in the man's code, that puts them ahead of
rent, clothing, food, or mortgages."

"I suppose the men have got a lesson that will cure them of gambling for evermore?"

"Oh, no. Not at all. All they are thinking about now is where to get a horse that can turn
the tables."

"Seems to me like burning one's hand because one got a finger scorched."

"Well, that's the man of it," said the Colonel. "If we could get Jim to run Blazing Star, the
whole garrison would mortgage their lives for cash to stake on it and win back all they had
lost or risked."

"Well, he won't; I tell you that. But why don't you buy Blazing Star, Colonel?"

"Because he won't sell. We've tried every way. I never saw a man so daffy over his horse."

"What would you consider a fair price, Colonel?"

"Well, Jim gave five dollars for him, to begin with, and refused two hundred and fifty dollars
when he proved what stuff he had got. I should say three hundred dollars would be a fair price,
four hundred dollars a good price and five hundred dollars an absolutely outside record price--scaled
wholly on the fact that he's the fastest horse on these plains."

"Would you give five hundred dollars?"

"Yes, I would. I'll give Hartigan five hundred dollars for Blazing Star right now, in hard
cash; but I don't say I'll hold it out very long. Accidents will happen; winter is coming,
and a bad wintering often ruins a horse."

"Will you take the first chance to offer that to Hartigan? He'll refuse; but say you'll leave
it open for a week, and I think you'll get Blazing Star."

The Colonel laughed a little, and wondered what was up. His wife, when she heard of it, said:
"Ho, ho! I know; they want to get married, and that's the easiest way to raise the needful."

And thenceforth she took a motherly interest in the handsome couple.

Within half an hour the Colonel found the chance to make his offer; and got what he expected,
a flat refusal.

"Sure, Colonel, it would be like selling the hand off my arm or the soul out of my body."

"Well, well," said the Colonel, "never mind. I won't take your answer now; we'll leave it open
for a week."

After the midday meal, Jim and Belle mounted and rode away. Jim thought to take matters up
where he had left off, but he found Belle inclined to be shy and rather preoccupied. He made
several ineffectual attempts to get her to talk, but she always relapsed into silence. They
were, indeed, half-way back, when Hartigan began for the fifth time:

"You said you would tell me on the road back."

"Tell you what?"

"Tell me the condition on which you will have me."

He leaned over and put his arm around her. This time she did not elude him. He clasped her
and sought her lips and she allowed her head to sink on his shoulder while he gathered the
reins of both horses in his hand, that they might not separate. She seemed content.

"You do care for me, don't you?" she whispered.

"Oh, Belle! I'd do anything for you. I'd give my life for you."

"You would? Anything?"

"Only try me."

"Would you give up the ministry if I asked you?"

"If--if--you thought it was right--I know it would be right. Yes, I'd do it."

"Then I won't ask that. I'll put you to a smaller test. Will you face it?"

"I'll promise now; I give you my word before you name it."

"Then this is what I ask--that you sell Blazing Star to Colonel Waller right now, this very day."

"Oh, oh, Belle!" he said, feebly; "Blazing Star!"

"Yes, Jim, that is the condition. I love you, Jim; but you must choose now between us. Is it
Belle or Blazing Star?"

For a moment he seemed stunned but he tightened his arms about her, and tense the answer came.
"I can't do without you, Belle, I can't do without you. I've given you my word. I take you
on your terms."

"Oh, Jim!" and she broke down, passionately sobbing in his arms. "Oh, Jim! You great, glorious,
wonderful, blind Jim Hartigan, don't you know that I love you? Don't you know I have thought
it all out? Can't you see where Blazing Star was taking you? It is not caprice; you will know
some day."

"I know, I know now. I'll do what you say."

"Then turn right around and go back to Fort Ryan." They turned; she led; and they raced without
pulling rein.

"Colonel, I've come to take your offer," said Hartigan.

"You're a wise man," said the Colonel. "Come into the office." He drew up a check for five
hundred dollars. Jim put it in his wallet and said feebly, "He's yours. You'll be kind to him?"
Then he covered his face with his hands, and the tears splashed through his fingers to the floor.

"Never mind," said the Colonel, deeply touched. "He'll be treated like a king. You'll see him
in the race next summer and you'll see him win."

In all the blackness of that hour of loss that thought was the one gleam of comfort in the
realm of horse. Now he would see his racer on the track. The Church held him, but held his
horse no longer.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then the Angel of Destiny as he downward gazed, said to the Angel of the Fire--and his voice
trembled a little as he spoke--"Rejoice, for the furnace was heated exceeding hot and the metal
is shining brighter, far brighter than before."

BOOK IV

THE HORSE PREACHER AFOOT

CHAPTER XXXII

The Advent of Midnight

The ride home after that fateful decision was an event to be remembered. Jim was on a cavalry
mount, loaned for the occasion. Belle felt that since he had given up so much for her, it was
her part now to prove how good a bargain he had made; and she exerted all her powers to double
her ample hold on his love and devotion. She had no reason to question her power; she had almost
overmuch success. Jim wanted her to name the day, but whatever her wishes might have been,
her judgment held her back.

"Jim, dear love, don't you see? We must wait a long time. Your income is barely enough for
one. You are only a probationer with one year's leave from college, and, at most, an extension
of another year possible. What little I can bring as my share of the 'combine' won't go very far."

"Well," said Jim, "I've got the cash to furnish our house with, anyway," and he slapped his
hand on his wallet pocket. "I'll put that in the bank till we need it."

"Good boy!" and Belle smiled happily.

Arrived at Cedar Mountain, Jim took the cavalry mount to the livery stable; and three days
later, the little stable he had built for Blazing Star was torn down and carried away.

Jim was looking for a new mount, when one day Cattleman Kyle appeared in the town, and they
met for a few minutes at the blacksmith shop.

"Hello, Jim! What are you riding these days?" was his greeting.

"To tell the truth, I'm afoot, hard afoot," was the reply.

"Anything in sight?"

"Not yet."

"Come with me for a minute. I'm cutting down my saddle stock for the winter. I've got a bunch
of bronchos in the corral by the river. Have a look at them."

Jim went rather reluctantly; his heart was still sore over Blazing Star, and he was not ready
yet to put another into the vacant place. After a silent five minutes' walk, they reached the
corral with fifty horses of all colours, sizes, and shapes. Then Kyle said: "Jim, I've been
thinking, preachers ain't exactly broken-backed carrying their spondulix. I kind o' think I
owe ye something in the way of possibilities for putting Blazing Star in hands which may be
a big help to me. So there's my bunch; you can go over them at your own time and pick the best
as a free gift."

"Ye mean it?"

"That's what I mean, and there's my hand on it," said Kyle. And it was so. That was the way
of the old-time cattleman. If he lived at all, his money came in large chunks. He lived lavishly,
and made a fortune, if moderately lucky. So they were a generous lot; they were truly cattle kings.

But the cattle king reducing his horse herd does not select his best stock for the hammer;
quite the reverse. Some would have called his bunch the scrubs and tailings of the Circle K
ranch. Hartigan knew that; but he also knew that it must contain some unbroken horses and he
asked to see them. There were ten, and of these he selected the biggest. A man of his weight
must have a better mount than a pony. So the tall, rawboned, black three-year-old was roped
and handed over to the Preacher. Kyle did not fail to warn him that "Midnight" had a temper.

"Faith, it's mesilf can see that," said Hartigan, "but he isn't broken yet, and that means
his temper isn't spoiled. And it's mesilf will bring him to time, and he never will be broke.
If your broncho-busters take him in hand, they'll ride him in a week, but they'll make a divil
of him. I'll take him in hand and in three months I'll have him following me round with tears
in his eyes, just begging me to get on his back, and go for a run."

Who that knows the horse will doubt it? Hartigan's first aim was to convince the black colt
that men were not cruel brutes, and that he, Hartigan, was the gentlest and kindest of them
all. And this he did by being much with him, by soft talking, by never being abrupt, and by
bringing him favourite food. Not in a stable--it was a month before the wild horse would consent
to enter a stable--this first period of training was all in a corral. Then came the handling.
Midnight was very apt to turn and kick when first a hand was laid on him, but he learned to
tolerate, and then to love the hand of his master; and when this treatment was later reinforced
with a currycomb, the sensation pleased him mightily. The bridle next went on by degrees--first
as a halter, then as a hackimore, last complete with bit. The saddle was the next slow process--a
surcingle, a folded blanket and cinch, a double blanket and cinch, a bag of oats and cinch
and, finally, the saddle and rider. It was slow, but it was steadily successful; and whenever
the black colt's ears went back or his teeth gave a rebellious snap, Jim knew he was going
too fast, and gently avoided a clash. Never once did he fight with that horse; and before three
months had passed, he was riding the tall black colt; and the colt was responding to his voice
and his touch as a "broken" horse will never do.

"Yes," said Kyle, "I know all about that. It costs about twenty-five dollars to learn a horse
that way, and it costs about five dollars to break him cowboy way. An average horse is worth
only about twenty-five dollars. The cowboy way is good enough for our job, so I don't see any
prospect of change till we get a price that will justify the 'training.'"

Belle was an intensely interested spectator of all this Midnight chapter. She wanted Jim to
get a good horse that he would love, but oh, how she prayed and hoped he would not happen on
another speeder! She knew quite well that it was about one chance in ten thousand; but she
also knew that Jim could make a good horse out of mediocre material; and it was with anxiety
just the reverse of his that she watched the black colt when first they rode together. He was
strong and hard, but, thank heaven, she thought, showed no sign of racing blood.

"Of course, he'll come up a little later, when I get him well in hand," Jim explained apologetically.

And Belle added, "I hope not."

"Why?" asked Jim in surprise.

"Because, you might ride away from me." And she meant it.

CHAPTER XXXIII

The Sociable

Christmas time with its free days and its social gatherings was at hand; and the Church folk
must needs respond to the spirit of the season with a "sociable." In such a meeting, the young
minister is king--that is the tradition--and on this occasion it was easier than usual to crown
the heir apparent. At least twenty girls were making love to Jim, and he was quite unconscious
of it all, except that he thought them a little free, and at length he recited an appropriate
couplet from "The Solitude of Alexander Selkirk": "They are so unaccustomed to man, their tameness
is shocking to me." He joked and laughed with all; but ever he drifted over toward Belle, to
consult, to whisper, to linger.

For such affairs there is a time-honoured and established programme that was fairly well adhered
to at least in the early part. They met at the church parlours and gossiped; had a prayer,
then more gossip; next followed tea and cakes in a poisonous abundance, and more gossip. Now
the older preacher, as expected, read a chapter out of some safe story book, amid gossip--harmless
in the main, but still gossip. Next the musical geniuses of the congregation were unchained.
A perfectly well-meaning young lady sang, "Be kind to your brother, he may not last long,"
to an accompaniment of squeaks on the melodeon--and gossip. A boy orator recited "Chatham's
speech on American Independence," and received an outburst of applause which, for a moment,
overpowered the gossip.

Lou-Jane Hoomer, conspicuous for her intense hair and noisy laugh, had been active in getting
up the sociable, and now she contributed of her talents by singing "Home, Sweet Home." About
the middle of the second period, according to custom, the preacher should recite "Barbara Frietchie"
to a whispering chorus of gossip. But Jim was brought up in a land not reached by Barbara's
fame and he made a new departure by giving a Fenian poem--"Shamus O'Brien"--with such fervour
that, for the moment, the whisperers forgot to gossip.

Belle, as the manager of the affair, was needed everywhere and all the time, but made no contribution
to the programme. Lou-Jane scored such a success with "Home, Sweet Home" that she was afterward
surrounded by a group of admirers, among them Jim Hartigan.

"Sure," he said, she "was liable to break up the meeting making every one so homesick," and
she replied that "it would never break up as long as he was there to attract them all together."

John Higginbotham, with his unfailing insurance eye, pointed out that the stove-pipe wire had
sagged, bringing the pipe perilously near the woodwork, and then gossiped about the robberies
his company had suffered. A game of rhymes was proposed. In this one person gives a word and
the next to him must at once match it with an appropriate rhyme. This diversion met with little
enthusiasm and the party lagged until some one suggested that Jim recite. He chose a poem from
Browning, "How They Brought the Good News from Ghent to Aix." He put his very soul in those
galloping horses and wondered why the poet said so much about the men and so little about the
steeds. Dr. Jebb could not quite "see the lesson," but the fire and power of the rendering
gripped the audience. Dr. Carson said, "Now you're doing real stuff! If you'd cut out all your
piffling goody talk and give us life like that, you'd have all the town with you."

Lou-Jane was actually moved, and Belle glowed with pride to see her hero really touching the
nobler strings of human emotion--strings that such a community is apt to lose sight of under
cobwebs of long disuse but they are there and ready to resound to the strong, true soul that
can touch them with music.

But what was it in the trampling horses that stirred some undiscovered depth in his own heart?
How came it that those lines drove fogbanks back and showed another height in his soul, a high
place never seen before, even by himself? And, as those simple townfolk, stirred they knew
not how, all clamoured for another song, he felt the thrill that once was his in the far-off
stable yard of Links, when Denny Denard, brandishing a dung-fork, chanted "The Raiding of Aymal."
Now it all came back and Hartigan shouted out the rede:

    "Haakon is dead! Haakon is dead!
    Haakon of the bronze-hilt sword is dead.
    His son's in his stead;
    Aymal, tall son of Haakon,
    Swings now the bronze-hilt sword of his father.
    He is gone to the High-fielden
    To the high pasture to possess the twelve mares of his father;
    Black and bay and yellow, as the herdsman drave them past him;
    Black and yellow, their manes on the wind;
    And galloped a colt by the side of each."

So he sang in a chant the saga-singer's tale of the king killing all the colts save one that
it might have the nursing of the twelve. His eye sparkled and glowed; his colour mounted; his
soul was so stirred with the story that his spirit could fill the gaps where his memory failed.
The sense of power was on him; he told the swinging tale as though it were in verity his own;
and the hearers gazed intensely, feeling that he sang of himself. It was no acting, but a king
proclaiming himself a king, when he told of the world won by the bronze sword bearer mounted
on the twelve-times-nourished stallion colt; and he finished with a royal gesture and injunction:

    "Ho! ye, ye seven tall sons of Aymal,
    Comes there a time when face you many trails;
    Hear this for wisdom now;
    Twelve colts had I and all save one I slew.
    The twelve-times-nourished charger grew
    And round the world he bore me
    And never failed; so all the world was mine
    And all the world I ruled.
    Ho, children of the bronze-hilt sword,
    Take this for guiding creed:
    Pick out your one great steed
    And slay the rest and ride."

And when he smote the table with his fist the folk in that poor, simple hall were hushed with
awe. They had no words to clothe the thoughts that came, no experience of their own to match
them. There was a pauses--a silence; a slow, uncertain sounding of applause. Carson glared
half hypnotized; then said to himself: "This is not Jim Hartigan; this is the royal saga who sang."

What he clearly expressed, the others vaguely but deeply felt. As for Belle, the passion and
the power of it possessed her. She was deeply moved--and puzzled, too. It was a side of Jim
she had not known before. Later, as they went home together hand on arm, she held on to him
very tightly and said softly: "Now I know that you are marked for big things in the world."

CHAPTER XXXIV

Springtime

Have you seen the springtime dawn on the Black Hills? No? Then you have never seen a real spring.

For long, dark, silent months the land has lain under a broad white robe, the plains are levelled,
hidden, and the whiteness of the high spaces sweeps down to meet, on the lower hills, the sudden
blackness of the forest pine. And now you know why these are named Black Hills. Full four white
moons have waned; the blizzard wind has hissed and stung, till the house-bound wonder if the
days of spring will ever come. In March, when the northward-heading crows appear, the sting-wind
weakens, halts; the sweet south wind springs up, the snow-robe of the plains turns yellow here
and there as the grass comes through, then lo! comes forth a world of crocus bloom. The white
robe shrivels fast now, the brown pursues it up the mountain side till at the last there is
nothing left but a high-up snow-cap hiding beneath the pines, slowly dissolving in a million
crystal rills to swell the rolling Cheyenne far below. The spring birds fill the air, the little
ones that twitter as they pass, and the great gold-breasted prairie lark that sings and sings:
"The Spring, the Spring, the glory of the Spring!" Then all the world is glad, and stronger
than the soft new wind, deeper than the impulse of awakening flower bulbs, broader than the
brightening tinge of green--is the thrill of a world-wide, sky-wide joy and power, the exquisite
tenderness and yearning which if you know, you know; and if you do not know it none can make
you understand.

"O God of the blue and the green and the wind, oh, send me what my spirit craves." That is
the prayer, the unspoken prayer, of every sun-wise creature in these days; and the wild things
race and seek, and search and race, not knowing what draws them ever on; but they surely know
when they find it, and then they are at rest.

And they rode, Belle and Jim, the big square man, and the maid with the age-old light in her
eyes, and they rejoiced in the golden plains. They rode with the wild things of the plain,
and though they talked of the past and the future there was for them but one thing worth a
thought, the golden present in their golden youth.

"Oh, Belle, what fools we are! We talk of the past and of far-off days, of the blessings that
are ahead of us, and I know there is no better joy than this, to ride and shout and be alive
right now with you!"

Midnight had burgeoned out into a big strong horse; not swift, but staunch and better fitted
than the other for a rider of such weight. The wound of losing Blazing Star had healed, and
the scar it left was a precious thing to Jim much as the Indian holds his Sun Dance scars as
proofs of fortitude unflinching.

Fort Ryan and all the plains were in a rosy light this spring. It was a threefold joy to ride
on Midnight, with Belle, and to visit Blazing Star in his stall at the Fort. Hartigan felt
a little guilty as the gentle creature would come and nose about for sugar lumps while Midnight
would lay back his ears at the approach. Midnight had a temper, as was well known; but it was
never let forth, for the master that had so little skill in handling men was adept with the horse.

These were very full days for Jim and Belle, though they took their happiness in very different
moods. There never was a grown man more incapable of thought for the morrow than Hartigan;
he was alive right now, he would right now enjoy his life and Belle should be the crown. But
in her eyes even his imperception discovered a cloud.

"What is it, Belle? Why do you get that far-off troubled look?"

"Oh, Jim, you big, blind, childish giant; do you never think? You are only a probationer with
one year's leave. That year is up on the first of May."

"Why, Belle darling, that's five weeks off. A world of things may happen before that."

"Yes, if we make them happen, and I'm going to try."

"Well, Belle, this thing I know; if you set your mind to it I'd bet--if I weren't a preacher--I'd
bet there's not a thing could stand against you."

"I like your faith, Jim; but 'faith without works is dead'; and that means we must get up and
rustle."

"What do you suggest?"

"Well, I have been rustling this long while back. I've been working Dr. Jebb and Mrs. Jebb
and anybody else I could get hold of, to have your probation extended for another year. And
the best news we have so far is the possibility of another six months. After that, you must
go back to college to complete your course."

COLLEGE! Jim was thunderstruck. How many a man has all his dream of bliss summed up in that
one word--college? "Oh, if only I had money enough to go to college!" is the cry of hundreds
who hunger for the things that college means; and yet, to Jim, it was like a doom of death.
College, with all the horror of the classroom ten times worse since knowing the better things.
College in the far-off East--deadly, lifeless, crushing thing; college that meant good-bye
to Belle, to life, and red blood on the plains. Yes, he knew it was coming, if ever he gave
the horrid thing a thought; but now that it was close at hand the idea was maddening. College
was simply another name for hell. The effect of the sudden thought on his wild, impulsive nature
was one great surging tide of rebellion.

"I won't go!" he thundered. "Belle, do you suppose God brought me out here to meet you, and
have you save me from ruin and help me to know the best things on earth, just to chuck it all
and go back to a lot of useless rot about the number of wives the kings of Judah used to have,
or how some two-faced Hebrew woman laid traps for some wine-soaked Philistine brute, and stuck
the rotten loafer in the back with a kitchen knife all for the pleasure and glory of a righteous
God! I don't want any more of it, Belle; I won't go! You've told me often enough that my instincts
are better than my judgment, and my instincts tell me to stay right here," and his face flushed
red with passion.

"Dear boy! Don't you know I'm trying to help you? Don't you know I mean to keep you here? You
know that we can get anything we want, if we are willing to pay the price, and will have it.
I mean to keep you here; only I am trying not to pay too high a price."

She laid her hand on his. He reached out and put an arm about her. She said nothing, and did
nothing. She knew that he must blow off this fierce steam, and that the reaction would then
set in with equal force.

They rode for a mile in silence; she wanted him to speak first.

"You always help me," he said at last, heaving a great sigh. "You are wiser than I am."

She gently patted his cheek. He went on: "What do you think I should do?"

"Nothing for three days; then we'll see."

They galloped for half a mile, and every sign of worry was gone from his face as they reined
their horses in at the stable of Fort Ryan.

CHAPTER XXXV

When the Greasewood is in Bloom

Big things were in the air, as all the horsemen knew. Blazing Star had wintered well and, being
a four-and-a-half-year-old, was in his prime. Red Rover in the adjoining stable was watched
with equal care. Prairie hay was judged good enough for the country horses; but baled timothy,
at shocking prices, was brought from Pierre for the two racers; and, after a brief period of
letdown on clover and alfalfa, the regular routine diet of a race horse was begun, as a matter
of course. Little Breeches had left, chiefly because of unpleasant remarks that he continued
to hear in the stable. He had taken a springtime job among the cattle. So Peaches, having no
other string to his bow, allowed the officers "to secure his services as second assistant trainer,"
as he phrased it, or, as they with brutal simplicity put it, "as stable boy." He accepted this
gravely responsible position on the explicit understanding that allusions to the late race
were in bad taste.

Why should these two horses be so carefully trained? There was no race on the calendar. No,
but every one assumed that there would be a challenge, and nobody dreamed of declining it.
So, one day when all the plains were spangle-glint with grass and bloom, the sentry reported
horsemen in the south, a band of Indians, probably Sioux. It was an hour before they halted
near the Fort, and Red Cloud, on a fine strong pony, came with his counsellors around him to
swing his hand in the free grace of the sign talk, to smoke and wait, and wait and smoke, and
then speak, as before, on the Colonel's porch.

"Did the Soldier High Chief want a race this year?"

"Sure thing," was all the interpreter had to transmute.

"When?"

"As before."

"When the greasewood blooms, on the white man's big noisy wet Sunday?" For the treaty money
was to be paid that day. And Colonel Waller's eyes lit up.

So it was arranged that the Fourth of July they should race as before on the Fort Ryan track;
the horses were to be named on the day of the race. And Red Cloud rode away.

Jim Hartigan was present at that interview; he watched their every move, he drank in every
word, and he rode at a gallop till he found Belle. "Belle, the race is on for the Fourth of
July, they're going to enter Blazing Star. Oh, glory be! I'll see that race; I'll see Blazing
Star show all the country how."

"Yes, unless you are sent back to college."

"Oh, Belle, that's a cruel one. Just as everything looks gay, you hand me that," and his face
clouded. He knew too well that there was little likelihood of an extension; it was most unusual.
Why should an exception be made in his case?

"You know, Jim," she said very seriously, "we have been trying to move the president of the
college; and the fact that you are so much of a favourite is additional reason for getting
you back. The president has turned us down."

"Well, Belle, I simply won't go."

"You mean you will break with the Church?"

"I'll avoid that as long as possible, but I won't go back--at least, not now."

"Jim," she said, with a twinkle in her eye, "the president turned down Dr. Jebb and John Higginbotham
and you; but we were not licked. Mrs. Jebb, Hannah Higginbotham, and myself went after the
president's wife, and this morning Dr. Jebb got a new mandate; not all we asked, but your furlough
is extended for six months more."

"Hooray! Whoop!" was the response.

"Yes, I thought so," said Belle. "That's why I asked Dr. Jebb to let me break the news. For
a serious divinity student, it's wonderful what a good imitation you can give of a man who
hates books."

"Well, now, Belle, you know, and I know, and all the world knows, I can preach a better sermon
than Dr. Jebb, although he has studied a thousand books to my one and knows more in a minute
of time than I can ever know in a month of Sundays. And, if I go to college and learn to talk
like him, I'll put people to sleep in church just as he does. Hasn't the attendance doubled
since I came?" There was no question of that due in part to the growth of the town, and partly
also to Hartigan's winning personality and interesting though not very scholarly sermons.

"All right," said Belle. "You are saved from the terrible fate for six months. Be happy."

And he was. To such a buoyant soul a guarantee of six months' freedom put slavery so very far
away that it was easy to forget it.

CHAPTER XXXVI

Shoeing the Buckskin

Hartigan and the blacksmith were at it hard again.

"Look a' here," said Shives, "I want ye to notice all this here Church business was faked up
by that man Paul, or Saul, or whatever he called himself; and the real disciples would have
nothing to do with him. They threw him down cold whenever he tried to mix in. Now if you chuck
him and stick to the simple kindness of the old-timers that really did sit around with the
Master--Paul never even saw Him!--I'm willing to hear ye. But a man that writes whole screeds
about getting or not getting married and what kind of frippery women have to wear on their
heads, well, I've got him sized up for a fellow that had a dressing down from some woman and
probably deserved all he got--and more."

It was a long speech for Shives and more than once John Higginbotham tried to break in.

But Shives struck the anvil a succession of ringing blows which overpowered all rival voices
as effectively as any speaker's gavel could have done. Then, turning suddenly on Higginbotham,
he said, "See here, Deacon" (and he stressed the "Deacon"), "if you take the trouble to read
a publication called the Bible, and in particular the early numbers of the second volume, you'll
find that the Big Teacher taught socialism--and the real disciples did, too. It was that little
lawyer feller Paul that succeeded in twisting things around to the old basis of 'get all you
can; there must always be rich and poor'; and it ain't a bit of use your preaching to a man
'don't steal,' when his babies are crying for bread. I know I'd steal fast enough; so would
you, if you were anything of a man. It would be your 'fore-God duty to steal; yes, and murder,
too, if there was no other way of feeding them that He gave you to feed. And the law has no
right to preach 'no stealing' when it fixes it so you can't help stealing. If this yere government
of ours was what it pretends to be and ain't, it would arrange so every man could get enough
work at least to feed him and his folks and save himself from starvation when he was sick or
old. There wouldn't be any stealing then and mighty little of any other crime.

"That's my opinion; and I tell you it was that way the Big Teacher preached it in the beginning,
as you can see plain enough. And the first ring of disciples were honest socialists. It was
that letter-writing advance agent of the trusts that you call Saint Paul, that managed to get
control of the company and then twisted things back into the old ways. And in my opinion the
hull bunch of you is crooks hiding behind the name of a good man who threw you down cold when
He was alive.

And the anvil rang, "clang, clang, clang!"

"Now, Shives," bawled Jim in his stentorian voice, "you haven't begun to think. And every statement
you make is wrong and none of your quotations ever happened before; otherwise, I am quite willing
to accept everything you say. For example----"

"Hello! who's this?"

Up to the door of the blacksmith shop came riding a band of mounted Indians. First of these
was a middle-sized man with large square features, a single eagle feather in his hair. Hartigan
recognized at once the famous War Chief, Red Cloud, the leader of all the Sioux. Riding beside
him was an interpreter, and behind him was a small boy, mounted on a tall pony--buckskin, so
far as one could tell, but so shrouded in a big blanket that little of his body was seen; his
head was bedizened with a fancy and expensive bridle gear.

The whole shop turned to see. The interpreter got down and approaching Shives, said, "You can
shoe pony, when he ain't never been shod?"

"Sure thing," said Shives, "we do it every day."

"How much?"

"Five dollars."

"Do him now?"

"Yes, I guess so."

The interpreter spoke to Red Cloud; the Chief motioned to the boy, who dropped from the blanketed
pony and led it forward.

"Bring him in here," and Shives indicated the shop. But that was not so easy. The pony had
never before been under a roof, and now he positively declined to break his record. Some men
would have persisted and felt it their duty to show the horse "who is boss." Shives was inclined
to be masterful; it was Hartigan who sized up the situation.

"He's never been under a roof, Jack. I wouldn't force him; it'll only make trouble."

"All right; tie him out there." So the pony was tied on the shady side of the shop.

Hartigan turned to the half-breed interpreter to ask, "What do you want him shod for?" It was
well known that the Indians did not shoe their horses.

The half-breed spoke to Red Cloud, who was standing near with his men, talking among themselves.

The Chief said something; then the interpreter replied, "By and by, we race him, maybe on the
Big Wet Sunday; prairie wet, so he go slow."

There was a general chuckle at this. Sure enough, the Fourth of July, presumably the race day
in mind, it nearly always rained; and for the wet track they wanted their racer shod.

There are few short operations that take more horse management that the first shoeing of a
full-grown horse, especially a wild Indian pony. Nearly everything depends on the handling
and on the courage of the pony. In nine cases out of ten, the pony must be thrown. On rare
occasions a very brave horse, of good temper, can be shod by a clever farrier without throwing.
But it takes a skilful shoer, with a strong and skilful helper, for the assistant must keep
one front foot of the horse off the ground all the time the hind shoe is being put on, or the
shoer is liable to get his brains kicked out. As they were discussing the need of throwing
the pony, the interpreter said:

"Red Cloud no want him thrown. Chaska hold him." The bright-eyed boy from the mountain top--yes,
the same--came forward and, holding the pony's head, began crooning a little song. The pony
rubbed his nose against him, recovered his calm, and thanks to Hartigan's help--for he had
volunteered eagerly to lend a hand--the operation progressed without mishap. There were, however,
one or two little tussles, in which the great blanket slipped off the pony's back and showed
a rounded, beautiful barrel of a chest, hocks like a deer, and smooth, clean limbs; a very
unusually fine build for an Indian pony.

"By George! He's a good one," said Jim, and his heart warmed to the brave pony. The falling
of the blanket also showed some white spots, left by ancient saddle galls. Hartigan, after
a discriminating glance, said:

"Say, boys, this is their racer all right. This is the famous Buckskin Cayuse. He's a good
one. Now you see why they want him shod."

What a temptation it was to the white men; how easy it would have been for Shives to put one
nail in a trifle deep, to send that pony forth shod--well shod--but shod so that within the
next ten miles he would go lame, and in the race, a month ahead, fall far behind--if, indeed,
he raced at all. Yet, to his credit be it said that Shives handled that pony as though it were
his own; he gave him every care, and Red Cloud paid the five dollars and rode away content.

Jim gazed after the little band as they loped gently down the street and round the curve till
a bank cut off the view. "Say, boys, this is great," he said, "I wouldn't have missed it for
anything. There's going to be a real race this year."

There could be no question of that. The securing of Blazing Star was a guarantee of a wonderful
event if widespread interest and fine horseflesh could make it so.

CHAPTER XXXVII

The Boom

With the definite assurance of Blazing Star being entered, every man in Fort Ryan focussed
his thoughts on how he might best turn the race to account, wipe out the damage of the last
defeat, and recoup his loss with a double profit. They were very sorry for themselves, most
of these losers; especially sorry that they, who could really enjoy money and who had actual
need of so much, should lose their all to a lot of Indians who neither sought nor cared for
cash and whose only pleasure in the race was the gambling spirit, the excitement of the game.
This time the whites were going to leave no stone unturned to make a "killing." Every plan
was discussed, and there were not lacking those who called Shives by ugly names--behind his
back--for not seizing on the chance, when it was so easily in his hands, to put the Indian
racer under shadow of a sure defeat. But they made no such speeches when the Colonel was in
hearing.

Yet, after all, what did it matter? They had the ace in their hands now. There was no horse
on the plains could run with Blazing Star; and, training with him, in the best of care, was
the Red Rover, only a little less swift than the Star, now that careful methods had brought
him his full-grown strength and speed. Microscopic studies were made of every fact that seemed
to furnish a gauge of the horses' powers, and this was clear: Blazing Star was easily first;
Red Rover would make a good second; and the buckskin cayuse could not possibly do so well as
the Red Rover under the new training and lighter leather gear. Of course, the horse was not
to be named until the day and hour of the race, but it was quite certain that the Indians would
enter the Buckskin. Vague reports there were of a wonderful pinto that the Red men had somewhere
in training; but the Crow spies could furnish no corroboration of the report; and, in any case,
the shoeing of the Buckskin was a guarantee that the Indians meant to enter him.

From all of which there was but one logical conclusion. So the message went forth through the
length and breadth of Dakota, "Come on, we've got a dead-sure thing. Come on, and bring all
you can raise or borrow." It is wonderful, the faith of the racetrack gamblers in a tip! Their
belief in the "hunch" is blind and absolute; hope never dies on the racetrack, even though,
once in a while, it goes into a very deathlike swoon.

Not merely Dakota responded to the chances of the coming race, but Wyoming, Minnesota, Iowa,
Nebraska, yes, even Illinois. And Cedar Mountain post office began to have hopes of stepping
up to a higher round on the official scale, as the mail matter, registered and special, poured
in. Letters postmarked "Deadwood" came by the score; others from Minneapolis and St. Paul were
abundant; while, of course, there was the usual grist from Custer City, Bismarck, Pierre, Sidney,
Cheyenne, and Denver. John and Hannah Higginbotham could not, owing to John's position as Church
deacon, take an active part in the gambling; but they invented a scheme of insurance on a 50
per cent. premium basis which was within the Church law, though, when translated into terms
of the track, it was merely a two-to-one bet on the field.

The autumn race had played havoc with so many savings funds and so much actual cash in business
that a great number of those badly hit had vowed that they would never again go in; and they
clung to their new resolve through May and most of June. But, as the training went on and the
talk went around, and other men went in--all the wise ones, horse-wise, talk-wise, and otherwise--the
subtle fascination grew and, a month before the race, the same old madness glamoured every
mind; the same old guiding star--so often proved a spook-fire, but this time surely a star--was
leading, hypnotizing, shining just ahead. The racing men once obsessed, the world of half-way
interest followed even faster, till near the end of June, except for a few immune from principle
or poverty, the whole community of South and West Dakota had but one talk--the race, and what
they risked or hoped to make on it.

One must remember that the West has always been the land of boom. It is filled with the energetic
and enterprising who, by a natural process, are selected from the peoples of the East; and
the stuff such booms feed on, grow on, and grow mighty on as they feed, is Hope. Every Westerner
knows that the land is full of possibility, opportunity--free, equal opportunity multiplied;
and he hopes that his name will be the next one called by fortune. To respond to the call at
whatever cost--to be ready to respond--that is the condition of life worth while. A dozen bad
defeats are passing trifles if the glad call only comes and one fail not to rise to it. So
it is ever easy in a land of such undaunted souls to start a boom. Hope never dies in the West.

Reader, I have ridden the Plains and seen many a settler living with his family in one small,
dirty room, constructed out of sods with a black dirt roof, and dirt and dust on everything,
on every side. I have seen them with little food, pinched and sick and struggling with poverty
and famine. I have seen them in every dreadful circumstance of want and wasting pain that could
be named in the sum of horrors of the vilest Eastern slum: and yet they made no bid for sympathy
or help, or for a moment lost their pride; for one great fundamental difference there was between
them and the slummers of the East: the prairie pioneer is filled with hope! Hope gleams in
his eye; he lives in a land of hope; he was lured to the West by the blazing star of bright
new Hope; just on a little way it shines for him; and every sod upturned and every posthole
sunk, or seed put in, is turned or sunk or sown in the light of strong, unfading hope. Just
a little while, a few short months, maybe, and he believes, he knows his name will be the next
one called.

O land of hope, land of the shining four-rayed star, long, long may you remain the world's
great vale of youth, where none grow old at heart or pray for death, for none can ever wholly
lose their glimpse of that beckoning hope. The fountain of eternal youth springs up and gushes
'neath no other light.

O star of Hope! O blessed Lodestar of the soul! Long, long, yes, ages long may you be there,
swung in the sky for all the world to see and know that while they live and will, there gleams
a God-lit beacon in the West, the light of the land of hope.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

When the Craze Struck

"Brethren and sisters," said Dr. Jebb, in the Wednesday meeting established for general discussion,
"I consider it my duty to speak openly and officially in condemnation of this outbreak of the
fearful, soul-destroying vice of gambling that is sweeping over the land, over the country,
over the town, I might almost say over this congregation. Never, in all my experience, has
this inclination run so riotously insane. Not men of the world merely, but members of the Church;
and the women and little children who can barely lisp the shameful word, are betting on the race."

The reverend doctor had much more to say in fierce denunciation, but Hartigan, while regretting
the sinfulness of the habit, pointed out that this was a land of few pleasures and a land of
horses; and if, as was natural, they sought to get their pleasure out of their horses, then
surely Dr. Jebb would not consign them all to hell for it, but take a view more in line with
the Christian charity of the Church.

Deacon Higginbotham rose to expound his theory of risk. Every man who took a risk of profit
or loss was gambling; and everybody did it, so all were gambling, every one. "Now, see, we
have a fire insurance risk on the this church, which means the church is gambling against Providence.
So, clearly, the gambling itself is not a sin, it is the accessories of gambling that make
for evil. For example, if we gamble with cards, sitting up all night in a stuffy room, drinking
bad drinks, smoking bad smokes, speaking bad words, neglecting our business, neglecting our
morals, hurting our health--then these things are bad. But, if we gamble out in the sunlight,
on a beautiful prairie, on beautiful horses--now please don't mistake me; I'm not betting on
the race----"

Here Hannah pulled his coat tail and he sat down. The fact of the matter was, he had issued
a number of insurance policies on the race, and was quite ready to issue any number more.

It was well known that Dr. Jebb had invested his little savings in Deadwood town plots; and
when Dr. Carson rose and asked if any one present had ever risked money on a probable rise
in town plots--gambled, in fact, on the chances of a boom--Dr. Jebb turned scarlet and Dr.
Carson laughed outright. Whereupon the Rev. James Hartigan whispered to the Rev. Dr. Jebb,
who nodded; and the Reverend James, standing up, said: "Let us close the meeting with prayer."

If the Church--with all its immunities, safeguards, antitoxins, influences, warnings, prophylactics,
creeds, vows, exposures, denunciations, traditions, and holy leaders--should become infected
with aggressive interest in the speed contest to the extent of outward and visible material
risk, what was likely to be the condition of the ungodly? It is said that the real estate boom
of Minneapolis and the gold craze of Deadwood were psychological trivialities compared with
the sudden great boom in betting that set in during the last week of June at the Black Hills;
and the only reason why the wagering cataclysm was less disastrous than it threatened to be
was because it ended quickly.

Fifty thousand dollars of treaty money was in the hands of Red Cloud and his people; fifty
thousand more went to the Cheyennes under Howling Bull. The ranchmen were ready with an equal
sum, and Fort Ryan was not far behind. By noon the fifty thousand dollars had been distributed
to the Indians; by one o'clock every cent of it was put up on the race in equal bets. Who was
to be stake holder? How much was each stake to be held or awarded? These were problems of some
intricacy in view of the fact that the Indians could not read a word or trust any white man
except the Indian Agent and Father Cyprian, the Jesuit missionary, both of whom declined to
have any hand or part in the matter.

The plan devised by Red Cloud and accepted by the whites was as follows: every pair of stakes
was tied together and marked with two names, the white man's and the Indian's--the latter's
mark or totem being used. They then were piled up in a lone tepee, half way between the Fort
and the Indian camp, and the tepee put under guard of an Indian and a white soldier. The understanding
was that as soon as the race was over the winners should take possession of the lodge and distribute
the contents among themselves, as indicated by the marks.

There was nearly one hundred thousand dollars in cash piled up in that Indian lodge in twin
bunches. Of course, it was easy to arrange the money that way, and possible to make bundles
of robes, bridles, beadwork, buckskin, pemmican, and weapons. It was even practical to pair
off ploughs and bureaux; but the difficulties became huge and complex when horse was wagered
against horse, or cow against cow, and even more so when cow was put up against horse; for,
obviously, they could not be laid away in pairs, pending the decision; so that an elaborate
sort of tally stick was instituted with some success, but even so a number of disputes ensued.

There was not a trooper who did not wager all the cash he had or could by any means get. There
was not an officer who was not dragged in by the growing power of the craze. And daily, parties
of Indians came to the Fort to put up cash, or peer around to get a glimpse of the horses.
The whites made no attempt this time to spy on the Indians--their last experience had not been
very encouraging. Anyway, why should they? They had all the cards in their hands. The shoeing
of the Buckskin, the known importation of oats and timothy, the absence of reliable proof that
the Indians had any other horse, were conclusive on that side; and on their own, the Rover
could beat the Buckskin, even as Blazing Star could beat Rover; so, allowing for an accident,
they had two winning horses to choose from.

John Higginbotham, who represented the bankers of the little wooden Bank of Cedar Mountain,
had to send to Deadwood for a fresh supply of mortgage blanks, an assistant inspector of risks,
and all the cash they could spare for the present need. Colonel Waller began to take alarm.
The men were mortgaging their pay for months ahead, although many were still in debt from the
autumn before. One young officer whose pay was pledged for a year in advance did not hesitate
to pledge for the following year, so sure was he.

As early as the middle of June, the long lines of mounted men with prairie schooners were seen
crawling over the plain to northward and eastward, while down the mountain roads came Indian
bands in ever-growing numbers. The authorities might well have taken alarm but for the fact
that the gathering was to be at Fort Ryan where there were ample troops to deal with any possible
situation. Then over the hills from the south came Red Cloud with all his clan, and many more
besides. Mounted men in hundreds, with travois and different kinds of carts, carrying tepees,
provisions, household goods, and with them--straggling off or driven by the mounted boys--were
herds of prairie ponies, in scores or even hundreds, the Red men's real wealth, brought now
to stake, they fondly hoped, against the horses of the regiment at Fort Ryan. On the old camp
ground by the river below the Fort, the Indians pitched their village, and every day came others
of their race to set up lodges, and add to the lively scene. On the other side was a growing
canvas town of whites with every kind of sharper and blackleg that the surrounding settlements
could contribute from their abundant shady population.

Prominent among the visitors at Fort Ryan was the Indian Commissioner, with the local agent
as his assistant. He opened a temporary office in the barracks, and the morning of his arrival
many a lively scene took place as gorgeously dressed bucks, with wives and interpreter, gathered
there to receive their treaty money. Although the Colonel was careful to exclude all liquor
dealers and known sharpers from the Fort during the issue of the cash, he could not exclude
them from the Dakota prairie, and they were hanging about everywhere with their unholy wares
and methods. Firewater was, of course, the most dangerous snare; but a great deal of trick
robbery was carried on with gaudy knick-knacks for which unbelievable prices were asked and
got. The Indians might have parted with all their cash on that morning but for the need they
felt of having it to cover their bets on the race.

Red Cloud and his counsellors had been many times to Colonel Waller's house. They had come
with money bets, they had come with promises, and now they came with horses, eager to bet horse
against horse for the mounts of all the regiment. The Indian chief did not understand the Colonel's
refusal until he was told that a mythical Great High Chief named Unca-Sam was the owner of
the cavalry mounts--that though Unca-Sam was over a hundred years old, he was a young man yet
and knew all that was done in the West. Then it slowly dawned on Red Cloud that these men were
riding horses that did not belong to them; he despised them for it, but his Indian honesty
made him see how impossible it was to bet the horses that they did not own. However, he managed
to stake a throng of ponies against the cattle of the ranchers, and thus the wealth of one
side was staked against that of the other.

Next morning saw many wagons come to the Fort, with squaws beside their Indian drivers. They
stopped at the Colonel's house, the covers were removed, and great piles of beadwork, coats,
leggings, moccasins, baskets, war-clubs, and other characteristic things of Indian work were
revealed. It was made clear that these were offered as stakes; would the whites match up the
goods? In a spirit of fun, at first, the women of the Fort, as well as the men, began offering
household goods or personal gear; a frying pan against a baby-bag, a pair of corsets against
a medicine flute, a bureau against a war bonnet. Then, bitten by the craze, they kept on till
everything was matched and all the goods tied up in bundles, according to the established custom,
to lie in the big, special tepee under guard.

Another band of Red men followed with some tepees that they offered against government tents
and, on being refused, finally wagered them against provender and hay. Each day there were
new offers as groups of Indians came to the Fort, so that as soon as an Indian outfit on wheels
came slowly up, it was quite understood that it was bringing new material to put up on the
race. It was toward the end of the time that Red Cloud and his retinue came again, riding in
much solemnity. Ignoring all others, he went to Colonel Waller's house and, in his usual deliberate
way, after smoking, he began:

"Maybe so, you bet big?"

"Yes, indeed," was Waller's answer.

"Good. We bet all Dakota. You bet United States. Maybe so--yes?"

"No, no," laughed the Colonel.

"You win, we go away out west. We win, you all go back east. Maybe so--yes?"

"No," said the Colonel. "I am only a little chief. The Great High Chief, Unca-Sam, would not
allow it."

Red Cloud smoked a while, then resumed:

"Heap afraid, maybe so?" Then, after a pause, "We bet Pine Ridge, you bet Fort Ryan--yes?"

Again the Colonel had to protest that only the Great Father Unca-Sam could deal in such matters;
and Red Cloud grunted, "Heap scared," made a gesture of impatience, and rode away.

CHAPTER XXXIX

Jim's Bet

Jim Hartigan had as little interest in money as any Indian. All the things he loved and the
pleasures he sought were the things that money could not buy. He wanted to ride and race, be
alive, to love and be loved, to get the noblest animal joys, and soar a little--just a little--in
the realm of higher things. Money as a power had not been listed in his mind, till a chance
remark from Belle gave a wholly different trend to his thoughts.

"Jim, if I had about a thousand dollars, I think I'd be tempted to risk it. I'd go to Deadwood
and start a produce commission business there."

That was all she said, and it was spoken lightly, but her words sank deep in Hartigan's mind.

"A thousand dollars might, after all, spell heaven"; and he pondered it long and hard. As mere
business, it would not have held his thought an hour; but as a way to bring the happy time
more near, it filled his mind for days, but he told her nothing of it. It was in the blacksmith
shop that the next step was suggested. John Higginbotham had the floor; as he entered, Jim
heard him say to some one in the crowd:

"I'm no betting man. As a deacon of the Church, I cannot countenance betting. As an insurance
agent, however, I am quite ready, in all fairness, to negotiate your risk. You simply take
out a policy on the--ah--event, reflecting your judgment of the probabilities You pay your
premium--100 per cent, or whatever it is--and I, as your agent, place this risk with some established
company, or responsible person sufficiently furnished with capital, to assume the liability.
Then, as in the case of fire, or marine, or other insurance, the event decides the issue, and
the insured draws his insurance in accordance with the terms, less the modest 5 per cent, that
I receive for my perfectly legitimate trouble and expense."

Jim had never seen it in that light before; he rather liked the idea. After all, he was heart
and soul in the race His joy in Blazing Star was hardly less than it had been; and why not
manifest it in a way which held in it the possibilities of the wealth he needed? Why not take
out an insurance policy on Blazing Star's winning? He thought of it more and more, and a few
days later when he was depressed for once, Belle out of town, and the gloomy prospect of college
before him, he drew his precious five hundred dollars from the bank and took it to John Higginbotham
to deposit as his premium on insurance that the white men's horse would win the race. He had
a feeling that Belle would not approve. But he did not tell her about it, for he wanted to
surprise her when he should walk proudly up and put in her hand the one thousand dollars that
would surely be his. He felt sure, but not happy; his judgment said "go ahead"; his instincts
called a halt; but he went ahead.

Next day he went to Higginbotham. Hannah was there and a look from the deacon kept the Preacher
quiet on the matter. When a chance came, the former said: "'Tain't so easy now, Jim. Every
one knows the white men's horse is going to win, and there are no more even takers. I'm afraid
the best I can do is offer you a two hundred and fifty dollar insurance with a five hundred
dollar premium down, and your premium back, of course, if you collect the insurance, less my
regular commission."

"All right," said Jim, a little disappointed "let it go at that," and away he went.

Hannah did not usually take a daily part in the office unless John was away; but something
about Hartigan's visit prompted her to look more keenly through the books. It was her first
knowledge of the new kind of "insurance" and she and John talked it out.

"All the companies are doing it now. It's no risk for us. We'll get over two thousand dollars
in commissions anyhow." But Hannah was not content. She went over every item and presently
she came on Hartigan's five hundred, offered two to one.

"Humph!" she said, "does Belle know about this insurance business?"

"I don't know," said John uneasily.

"She ought to know."

"If she makes him withdraw, we lose our 5 per cent.," said John, knowing quite well that that
would hit Hannah very hard.

"I don't care," said Hannah, "I'm going to tell her."

It gave Belle a decided shock. It also explained to her Jim's peculiar behaviour during the
last two days. Here was where his horse mania was leading him. She was not deceived by the
glib terms of "insurance," nor as to the certainty of scandal, but she did not know what to
do. Her first impulse was to go direct to him; and yet, that would put her in the position
of a spy with a charge of treachery. No, that would be stupid. It was such an assumption of
mastery, and such an exposure of Hannah's business impropriety as well that she hesitated;
then, in a flash, she said:

"Hannah, I have two hundred and fifty dollars of my chicken money in the bank; I was saving
it for something very different. I'll take that 'insurance.' But not a word at present of who
it was that took it. If you must give a name, say his insurance was taken up by 'Two Strikes.'"
And in her heart she thought: "It is not my road; it is not a good road; but it is his road,
and I'll take it till I bring him back."

CHAPTER XL

The Crow Band

Even far Montana heard the news, and, winding through the hills, there came one day a band
of Crows from their reservation on the Big Horn. They came with only their light travelling
tepees; and the intense dislike in which they are held by the Sioux and Cheyennes was shown
in the fact that they camped far away in a group by themselves.

The Crows are noted for their beautiful lodges and their inveterate habit of horse stealing.
They also have this unique fact on their record--that they have never been at war with the
whites. They will steal a white man's horses fast enough, but they have never tried to take
a white scalp. Their party consisted chiefly of men and a few surplus horses. But for the lodges
and a few women, it might have passed for a war party.

The Crows are among the numerous claimants of the title "best horsemen in the world." If reckless
riding in dangerous places without being thrown is good ground for the claim, then is the claim
good; and it becomes yet stronger in view of the fact that most of their riding is barebacked.
When they came to the Fort that day it was as though they were riding for their lives. They
were but a score and were admitted without question. They paid their respects to Colonel Waller
and then, after smoking, announced that they had money and goods to bet on the race. They were
disappointed to find how much too late they were; everything was already up. So they rode away.

They did not go near the Sioux and Cheyenne camp; not that there was much danger of their suffering
bodily harm, but they had been unmistakably informed that they were not welcome, though the
action went no further than ignoring them. Next morning, when Blazing Star and Red Rover were
doing their turn, there were no keener onlookers than the Crows. By look and grunted word they
showed their appreciation of the noble brutes.

The Chief came to the Fort to find out if the Colonel would sell Blazing Star after the race.

"We give twenty horses," and he held up both hands twice.

"No."

"Three hands ponies," and they held up both hands spread three times.

"No, he is not for sale."

Late that day Red Cloud and Howling Bull came to Colonel Waller and, after preliminaries, conveyed
the information and warning: "All Crows heap big thief. You watch him; he steal horse every
time, heap no good."

The third of July came, and the plain looked like a city of tents. Many traders were there
to open temporary stores; and it is doubtful if any single race in the Western world has attracted
more people or created intenser interest. The Cheyennes gave a great dance in honour of the
Sun. They invited all the Sioux to come, and the whites invited themselves. Belle and Jim were
there and saw much to please and much to disgust them. The general impression was one of barbaric
splendour, weird chanting, noisy tom-toms, and hypnotic pulsation. It was mostly repellent,
but sometimes the rhythm stirred them, and provoked a response which showed that the wild musicians
were playing on instincts and impulses that are as wide as humanity.

Most horsemen like to keep their training ground in some sort private; but the garrison had
given up all attempts at that, so far as Blazing Star and Red Rover were concerned. Every one
knew, every one was interested, and each day there was an eager crowd waiting to feast their
eyes on the two splendid racers. And they were well worth it. Even Jim had to acknowledge that
Blazing Star was looking better now than ever before.

"Look at that neck, Belle, see how it arches, see the clean limbs; isn't he trained to perfection?
If I only--if----" then he stopped himself.

As he fondly watched the horse with glowing eyes, he said: "Of course, we don't know anything
at all about where or how he was bred, but I should say that that is a blood Kentucky, nearly
pure--Kentucky gold dust."

Among the spectators were the two Indian Chiefs in their warpaint--Red Cloud of the Sioux,
and Howling Bull of the Cheyennes. They spoke little to each other, for neither knew the other's
tongue; but they made little gestures of the sign language, and any keen observer knowing it
could catch the ideo-signs: "Good, good; by and by; we see good race; brave, swift," and so
on. Later: "Yes, after one sleep. Rain heap, yes."

Jim watched them closely. "See that, Belle? he says: 'To-morrow it rain heap,' I wonder how
he knows. They call the Fourth of July the Big Wet Sunday, because it usually rains then. I
wonder how it will affect the race."

"Jim, you said they had shod the buckskin cayuse in expectation of a wet track."

"Yes; that's a mystery; how can they tell? The air is full of rumours, anyway. Chamreau says
that Red Cloud has been seeking everywhere for fast horses. He had a man go as far as Omaha
and another to Denver. Some say he did pick up a racer, a half-blooded Kentucky--some that
he had got a wonderful pinto cayuse from Cheyenne; this latter is the more persistent rumour,
though Chamreau says he can't find any one who has actually seen one or the other. Anyhow,
no one knows what their entry will be. We have a pretty good idea of ours"; and Hartigan smiled
proudly.

The two chiefs, with their followers, conversed earnestly, and with much gesture. They looked
and pointed at the Crow camp and the rain sign came in many times, and emphatically. The old
feud between the Sioux and the Crows had broken out afresh in a trader's store. Two young men
from the opposing camps had quarrelled. They had drawn their knives, and each had been wounded.
These things were common talk, and Belle and Jim watched the two chiefs ride toward the Crow
camp with an eager curiosity to know more about it. When the Red men were a mile away and within
half a mile of the Crow village, they followed at a good pace and reached the tepees in the
secluded corner in time to see the two visiting chiefs making an address mainly by signs, as
they sat on their horses. Chamreau was there, and in answer to Jim's question translated Red
Cloud's address to the Crows thus:

"You make bad medicine so we lose race, we kill you." Then, indicating Howling Bull, "He say,
'you make bad medicine, bring rain, I kill you.'"

Having delivered their ultimatum, the visiting chiefs turned haughtily and rode to their own camp.

"I don't know just what they really did say," said Hartigan, "but if I'm any judge of looks,
there'll be trouble here if those Crows don't get out."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was four o'clock in the morning of the Fourth of July when the thunderbolt struck Fort Ryan.
It was not very loud; it damaged no building; but it struck the very souls of men. A thousand
thunder claps, a year's tornadoes in an hour, could not have been more staggering; and yet
it was only four words of one poor, wheezing Irish hostler at the Colonel's window:

"Colonel! Colonel! For the love of God--come--come--come at once--Blazing Star is gone!"

"What?" and the Colonel sprang up.

The reveille had sounded, the men were just rising; but one group there was already about the
stable talking with an air of intense excitement. The Colonel went without waiting to dress--the
officer of the day with him. In terrible silence they hurried to the stable; there was Rover
in his box, whinnying softly for his morning oats; but the next--the box of Blazing Star--was
empty; and the far end, the outer wall, showed a great new doorway cut. Beyond, out in the
growing light, troopers rode to every near-by lookout; but never a sign of horse did they see,
or, indeed, expect to see. The case was very clear; the horse was stolen, gone clean away--their
hope for the race was gone.

These were terrible moments for the hapless grooms and guards. Human nature, in dire defeat,
always demands a victim; and the grooms were glad to be locked up in the guard house, where
at least they were out of the storm of the Colonel's wrath. As the light grew brighter a careful
study laid bare the plan of robbery. The stables formed, in part, the outer wall of the quadrangle.
They were roofed with pine boards, covered with tar-paper on cedar corner posts; the walls,
however, were of sods piled squarely on each other in a well-known Western style, making a
good warm stable. It was a simple matter to take down quickly and silently this outer wall
from the outside, beginning at the top, and so make another exit. This had been done in the
dead of night. And the track of the racer told the tale like a printed page.

A general alarm had gone forth; all the Fort was astir; and the army scouts were by the case
forced into unusual prominence. It was Al Rennie spoke first:

"Colonel, it's a-going to rain, sure; it's liable to rain heavy. I suggest we take that trail
right away and follow before it's all washed out."

"The quicker the better," said the Colonel.

Riding ahead on the trail like a hound went the old trapper-hunter-scout with a band of troopers
following. They had not gone a quarter of a mile before the rain began to spit. But the line
of the trail was clear and it was easy for the practised eye to follow. It headed east for
half a mile, then, on a hard open stretch of gravel, it turned and went direct for the Crow
camp. Rennie could follow at a gallop; they rounded the butte, cleared the cottonwoods, crossed
the little willow-edged stream, and reached the Crow camp to find it absolutely deserted!

The rain was now falling faster; in a few minutes it set in--a true Dakota flood. The trail
of Blazing Star--clear till then--was now wholly wiped out. There was nothing but the unmarked
prairie around them; and the guide, with the troopers, soaked to the skin, rode back with the
forlorn tidings.

CHAPTER XLI

The Pinto

Under such a cloud of disaster men cared little what the weather was; the deluge of rain seemed
rather appropriate. There was even a hope that it might rain hard enough to postpone the race.
But at ten it stopped, and by eleven it had cleared off wholly. The race was to be at noon.

Word had been sent to Red Cloud, asking for two days' postponement, which was curtly refused.
"White man heap scared maybe," was his scornful reply.

The Colonel held a hasty council of war with his officers. Their course was clear. In Red Rover
they still had a winner and the race would come off as announced; such a horse as Blazing Star
could not long be concealed; they would follow up the Crows and recover him in a few days.
So, after all, the outlook was not so very dark.

Already the plain was surging with life. Gaily-clad Indians were riding at speed for the pleasure
of speeding. Thousands of gaudy blankets--put out to air in the sun--seemed to double the density,
colour, and importance of the camp. New wagons came with their loads, new life developed; now
came a procession of Indians singing their racing songs, for the Indian has a song for every
event in life; bodies of United States troops were paraded here and there as a precautionary
and impressive measure; the number of Indians assembled, and their excitability, began to cause
the authorities some apprehension.

The Boyds were there in their democrat and had brought picnic food for all day; but Hartigan
was a special favourite at the Fort, and he, with Belle, was invited to join its hospitable
garrison mess, where social life was in gala mood. It was an experience for Belle, for she
had not realized before how absolutely overwhelming a subject the horse race could be among
folk whose interests lay that way, and whose lives, otherwise, were very monotonous. She was
a little shocked to note that every one of the wives at the table was betting on the race--in
some cases, for considerable money. The one restraining force in the case was the absence of
takers, since all were backing Red Rover.

An amusing incident occurred when, during the meal, a bead-eyed young squaw entered the mess
room and stood a little inside the door.

"What does she want?" asked the Colonel.

Then the interpreter: "She wants to bet on the race. She wants to bet her baby against yours."

A pretty good proof of a sure thing, for no race loves its children more than the red folk.
An Indian has no compunction whatever in staking his treaty money, which comes so easily and
may as lightly go; he does not hesitate to risk all his wealth, for after all wealth is a burden;
he will even wager his wife, if the game possesses him; but he is very shy of staking his children.
He does it on occasion, but only when he considers it a foregone result--a certainty of winning.

The Indian Agent had many close conferences with the Colonel. He strongly disapproved the whole
racing excitement and plainly indicated that he held the Colonel responsible. What would happen
when these excited fifteen hundred Sioux and Cheyenne warriors--not to speak of some five thousand
women and children--met defeat, was a serious problem. Had the situation been sooner realized,
the whites could have organized into some sort of home defense. Red Cloud and Howling Bull,
so far as could be discerned, contemplated the scene, and the coming event, with absolute composure.

Huge pools of water had blue-patched the racetrack after the downpour; but these had drained
off to a great extent, leaving the track a little greasy perhaps, but quite usable; and Jim
recalled with interest the shoeing of the Buckskin. "This was what it was for; how did the
heathens know it was coming?" By mutual agreement, at length, the race was postponed for two
hours, which, under such a sun, would bring the track back nearly to normal; and since the
Indians had had the Buckskin shod, it was the same for both. It was decided that the start
should be made when the sun was over Inyan Kara, the tallest of the hills in sight to the west;
this meant, as nearly as possible, at four o'clock.

At two o'clock all the world seemed there. There were mounted Indians--men and women--by thousands,
and at least a thousand mounted whites besides the soldiers. The plain was dotted with life
and colour from far beyond the Indian camp to Fort Ryan; but the centre of all was the racetrack;
and camped alongside, or riding or sitting near, was the thickest group of folk of both races,
bound to lose no glimpse of the stirring contest.

The delay made for new excitement; the nerve strain became greater as each hour passed. The
white soldiers did what they could to hold the crowd, and the Indians called on their own "Dog
Soldiers" or camp police to do the same. Fortunately, it was a good-natured crowd; and the
absconding of the Crows had removed the largest element of risk, so far as violence was concerned.
Jim was ablaze with the wildest of them all. He rode away and back at a gallop to work it off.
Belle was too tired to join these boisterous runs, so he rode alone at first. But another woman
rider was there; from the crowd Lou-Jane Hoomer spurred her bay, and raced beside him. She
was an excellent horsewoman, had a fine mount, and challenged Jim to a ride. Handsome, her
colour up, her eyes sparkling, Lou-Jane could have ridden away, for she had the better mount,
but she didn't; she rode beside him, and, when a little gully called for a jump, they jumped
together, and found abundant cause for laughter. Twice they went careering, then back to Belle,
and when next Jim's itch for speed and life sent him circling, Belle was rested enough to follow
everywhere.

At a quarter to two the bugle of the Fort was blown, and there issued forth the proud procession
with Red Rover in the middle, led beside his jockey, who rode a sober pony. It was Little Breeches
this time. There is one thing that cannot be explained away, that is defeat. Peaches had been
defeated; his chance came no more.

Red Rover was magnificent, trained to a hair, full of life and fire. Of all the beautiful things
on earth, there is nothing of nobler beauty than a noble horse; and Rover, in his clean-limbed
gloss and tensity, was a sight to thrill the crowds that were privileged to see him spurn the
earth, and arch his graceful neck, and curvet a little for the subtle joy that comes of spending
power when power is there in a very plethora. Every white man's eye grew proudly bright as
he gazed and gloried in his champion and fear left all their hearts. At the starting post,
they swung about, Little Breeches mounted, and a mighty cheer went up. "Ho, Red Cloud! Where's
your horse? Bring on your famous Buckskin now"; and the rumbling of the crowd was rising, falling,
like the sound of water in a changing wind.

Far down the valley, near the Ogallala Camp, a new commotion arose and a wilder noise was sounding.
There was the shrill chant of the "Racing Ponies" with the tom-toms beating, and then Red Cloud's
men came trotting in a mass. As they neared the starting point, the rabble of the painted warriors
parted, and out of the opening came their horse, and from the whites went up a loud and growing
burst of laughter. Such a horse as this they had never seen before; not the famous Buckskin,
but the mysterious pinto pony, wonderful, if weird trappings could make him so. On his head
he wore an eagle-feather war-bonnet; his mane was plaited with red flannel strips and fluttering
plumes; his tail was even gaudier; around each eye was a great circle of white and another
of black; his nose was crossbarred with black and red; his legs were painted in zebra stripes
of yellow and black; the patches of white that were native to his coat were outlined with black
and profusely decorated with red hands and horseshoes painted in vermilion; on his neck was
a band of beadwork, carrying a little bundle of sacred medicine; and, last, he had on each
ankle a string of sleigh-bells that jingled at each prancing step. A very goblin of a horse!
His jockey was, as before, Chaska, the Indian boy, stripped to the breechclout, with an eagle
feather in his hair and a quirt hung on his wrist.

Never, perhaps, was a more grotesque race entry in all the West; and the difference between
the burnished form of Red Rover in his perfect trim, and this demon-painted Pinto gave rise
to an ever-growing chorus of shouting, laughter, rough jibes, and hoots of joy.

Jim took in the Indian horse with the keenest of eyes. "Well, boys, he may be only a pinto
cayuse, but he's way ahead of their Buckskin. Look at that action. Bedad, they've got him shod!"

The Pinto seemed as tall as Red Rover and, so far as trappings allowed one to see, he was nearly
as fine in build. Diverse feelings now surged in the crowd. Many of the whites said, "Well,
it was true after all, Red Cloud, the old fox, he sent to Omaha, or maybe Illinois and bought
a racer. The shoeing of the Buckskin was a blind. Or maybe, at that time, their racer had not
been secured."

Old Red Cloud slowly rode by with his square jaw set, his eyes a little tight, observing all;
but he gave no sign of special interest.

With two such keen and nervous racers it was no easy matter to get a fair start; but at length
they were man[oe]uvred into line, side by side. The pistol cracked and away they went, while
all the crowd held still, so very still for a moment that you could have heard for a hundred
yards the medicine song of the Indian boy:

"Huya! Huya! Shungdeshka, Shungdeshka! (Fly! Fly! my Eagle! Fly! my Pinto Eagle!)" And that
wild-eyed Indian pony sprang away as fast as the blooded horse beside him. So far as any one
could tell it was an even match.

The white man had won the inside track again; and remembering how the Indian boy had got that
advantage in the last race, he was on the watch. But nothing happened; the horses led off side
by side, shoulder to shoulder. At the turning post was a waiting throng that received them
with a cheer, to follow again in their wake, like madmen let loose on hoofs. The horses seemed
to thrill to the sound and bent to it faster.

Around the post they had swung, perforce in a large circle, and the Pinto lost a good half
length. Now Little Breeches saw his chance and, leaning forward well, he smote with the quirt
and pricked those bronzy flanks, while Rover bounded--bounded to his limit.

But the Indian boy's magic song rang out again: "Huya Huya, Huya deshka! Huya, Huya, Huya deshka!
(Oh, Eagle, fly, fly Eagle, my Pinto fly!)" And the Pinto seemed to unchain himself, as a hawk
when he sails no more, but flaps for higher speed. With thunderous hoofs the wild horse splashed
through a pool, came crawling, crawling up, till once again he was neck and neck with the wonderful
flying steed in the coat of gold.

Little Breeches shouted, "Hi! Hi! Hi!" and spurred and smote. Chaska glanced at him and smiled,
such a soft little smile. The eagle feather in his hair was fluttering, and the smile was still
on his lips as they reached the last half mile. Then, in weird and mouthing tone, Chaska sang
of wind and wings:

    "Ho, Huya, Huya deshka,
    Huya, Huya, Huya deshka,
    Woo hiya, Woo hiya, Woo hiya,
    Unkitawa, Unkitawa, Ho!"

Strong medicine it must have been, for the Pinto thrilled, and bounded double strong. The white
man yelled and spared not lash nor spur. Red Rover flinched, then sprang as he had never sprung
before. But the demon pony in the motley coat swung faster, faster, faster yet; his nostrils
flared; his breath was rushing--snorting--his mighty heart was pounding, the song of the wind
and the flying wings seemed to enter into his soul. He double-timed his hoofbeats and, slowly
forging on, was half a length ahead. The white man screamed and madly spurred. Red Rover was
at topmost notch. The demon pony forged--yes, now a length ahead, and in the rising, rumbling
roar, passed on, a double length, and in. The race was won, lost, won lost--the Pinto pony
crowned; and the awful blow had struck!

CHAPTER XLII

The Aftertime

The crack of doom will never hit Fort Ryan harder. When the thousand painted Sioux came riding,
yelling, wild with joy, shooting their rifles in the air, racing in a vast, appalling hoof
tornado down the long track and then to the lodge of all the stakes, they went as men who are
rushing to save their own from some swift flood that threatens. But they got an unexpected
shock. The red sentry and the white sentry were standing--sullen, for they were forced to miss
the race. Still, the result was clear.

The Sioux were each for claiming the bundle with his name. But the soldier on guard, with fixed
bayonet, ordered all the frenzied rabble back.

"I don't know anything about your darned race, and here I stand till I get orders from my officer."

It was the very impudence of his courage that saved him from what they thought righteous vengeance.
The Colonel came at once. The guard saluted and withdrew and the Red men seized their spoils.
And, strange to say, among themselves they had not one dispute; none tried to overreach; each
knew his mark and claimed his own.

The whites were like men under a gallows doom.

"Stung, stung!" was all the Colonel had to say.

The Adjutant, an erratic officer, had lost half a year's pay. The magnitude of the disaster
was almost national, he felt, and sadly, shyly, he said: "Will you have the flag at half-mast,
Colonel?"

"No!" thundered the Colonel. "I'll be darned if the flag shall hang at half-mast for anything
less than the death of an American."

And the Rev. James Hartigan! He stared stonily before him as the race was won.

Belle was at hand and she watched him closely. He turned deathly pale.

"What is it, Jim?" she said quietly, and laid her hand on his.

"Oh, Belle, this is awful."

"Why, Jim? Why should you care? It isn't as if it were Blazing Star. We're sorry for all those
men, of course; but maybe it's the best thing for them. I think now they'll realize the curse
and folly of racetrack gambling."

"Oh, Belle, if you only knew," groaned Jim.

"Knew what, Jim dear? It seems to me those men are getting their deserts. I know you and Dr.
Jebb did all you could to hold them back, and denounced all racing as it properly should be."

Jim turned his head away and pressing his forehead with his great powerful hand, he groaned.

"Jim, dear boy, why do you take it so hard? Why should you worry? I'm sorry for the women and
children that will suffer for this, but I have little pity for the men; the fools, they knew
what they were doing."

"Let's ride away," he said; and as he turned, he saw Red Cloud, calm and dignified, on his
horse watching wagon after wagon go by filled with plunder, on its way to the Indian camp.

Jim and Belle rode away from the painful scene. She was leading for the Fort; but he said,
"I must see Higginbotham." She followed as he went to the tent with the sign, "John & Hannah
Higginbotham--Insurance." A number of Indians were in and about, laughing merrily and talking
in their own tongue. Jim waited till the tent was clear, then dismounted. Belle was for following,
but Jim said, "Would you mind holding the horses? I won't be a minute." His face was so drawn
and sad that she was deeply touched. She had meant to prick and lash him for a while yet, but
now in pity she forbore.

He entered. The Deacon was sitting at a little desk. Beside him was a small safe; it was open,
but nearly empty now.

"Well," said Jim gruffly, almost savagely, "what's to do?"

"Nothing," said the Deacon calmly. "You've lost. The Indians have been here and got most of
their plunder. Your five hundred is now the property of a person named 'Two Strikes' who will,
doubtless, call presently and secure the indemnity, less my reasonable 5 per cent. commission."

Jim turned in silence. As he joined Belle, she said, "Here, Jim, help me down; I want a word
with the Deacon."

Jim stammered, "I--well--ah----"

She paid no attention, but said, "Now lead the horses over there." When he was safely away,
she entered. The Deacon's eyes twinkled. "Good afternoon, Two Strikes, you people have made
a great killing."

"Yes," she said calmly; "I've come for my share."

He opened the safe, took out the last of the packets tied up in a particular shape, and said
in businesslike tone, "Two hundred and fifty dollars premium, five hundred dollars insurance,
5 per cent, on indemnity collected is twenty-five dollars; shall I hold it out?"

"No," she said; "I'll keep that bunch untouched. Here it is." She handed him his twenty-five
dollars, put the seven hundred and fifty dollars in her side bag, and went forth. Jim stared
at her in a frightened way as she came.

"Belle," he said huskily, "what did he say?"

"Oh, nothing special. Judging from his looks, I don't think he's lost any money."

"Did--did he tell you anything?"

"About what?"

"About me?"

"No. Why? Why do you look so terribly upset, Jim?" and mounting, she rode off beside him.

"Oh, Belle, I can't lie to you. I'll tell you all about it. Belle, I put up all I had, the
money I got for Blazing Star. All we were to furnish with. I wanted to hand you the money you
wanted. Calling it insurance blinded me; the temptation was too much. I should have known better.
Oh, Belle, will you ever forgive me? I'm nothing but a gambler," and, crushed with shame, he
repeated, "I'm nothing but a criminal racetrack gambler."

An overwhelming compassion swamped her. She leaned toward him and said softly, "So am I, Jim,
I'm just as bad as you are."

"What--what do you mean?"

"Jim, do you know the name of the Indian that got your stake?"

"Yes. He said it was 'Two Strikes.'"

"Jim, dear, I am 'Two Strikes.' Here is your money back; only it's our money now, Jim darling.
Now never a word of this to any human soul"; and screened by the cottonwood trees, they fell
sobbing in each other's arms.

CHAPTER XLIII

Finding the Lost One

Colonel Waller had been telegraphing from Cedar Mountain to all reachable parts of the North
where the Crows were likely to be, without getting one word of comfort. Then up to the door
of his house the morning after the devastating race came Red Cloud of the calm, square face,
and behind him riding, a dozen braves.

At precisely the right moment prescribed by etiquette, he opened: "Me savvy now why you no
run heap good horse."

"Humph!" said Waller.

"Didn't I tole you watch when Crow come?"

"Humph!" was the answer.

"You no got him back yet--no?"

"No," said the Colonel, with some asperity.

"Why? White scout no follow trail?"

"The rain wiped out all trail," was the answer.

"Your scout heap no good," said Red Cloud. Then, after a dozen slow puffs at his pipe, during
which he gazed blankly and far away, the Indian said: "Ogallala very good scouts. Maybe so
they find trail. What you give for follow Crow? Maybe find, bring back your pony."

Without a doubt, this was the easiest way. The Ogallala scouts would gladly pursue their ancient
enemies and force them to give up the stolen horse. These men knew which line the Crows would
most likely take, and could probably pick up the trail in a day. Prompt action was necessary.
The Indian bands were breaking up and going home laden with plunder, their fresh trails would
render it impossible to follow the trail of the horse thieves. The Colonel's mind was quickly
made up.

"Red Cloud," he said emphatically, "I'll give you two hundred and fifty dollars cash if you
find Blazing Star and bring him back here in good condition within one week."

The Indian Chief smoked for a few puffs and said: "Seven suns, no good. Crow country far away;
one moon maybe."

Reckless riders like the Crows might easily ruin a horse in one month; so, at length, a compromise
was reached, whereby Red Cloud was to receive two hundred and fifty dollars if within two-weeks;
and one hundred if a month passed before the return. Then the Sioux Chief rose "to find his
young men," and his party rode away.

It was nine the next morning when the sentry discovered a considerable body of mounted Indians
in the northeast, riding rapidly toward the Fort. Had it been from the south, he would scarcely
have made a report. Before ten o'clock they had arrived. They numbered about fifty warriors
in full war paint. They were singing their war songs, and fastened to their coup sticks were
one or two terribly fresh-looking scalps. At their head was Red Cloud. A hundred troopers were
under arms, so they did not hesitate to admit the Indians. The warriors passed through the
gate; then spreading out before the Colonel's house, their opening ranks revealed the noble
form of Blazing Star. Bestriding him was the boy Chaska, his bright eyes and clear white teeth
gleaming in a smile.

A mighty shout went up among the white men as the blooded racer was led to the Colonel's office.
One or two formalities, and the two hundred and fifty dollars was paid over to Red Cloud. Blazing
Star was hastily examined, found in perfect trim, then handed over to the Irish hostler.

"You take him to the stable," was all the Colonel said, but he said it in large capital letters
and it was full of grim threats and reminder, hostler Mike led the lost darling back to the
stable where a crowd of men were waiting.

Red Cloud crammed the new wealth into his tobacco pouch and rode away at the head of his men.

Al Rennie felt sick with disgust that he should fail when the trail was fresh, while the Sioux,
on a washed-out trail, made such a showing in so short a time. He was puzzled, too, by the
scalps. The two he managed to examine were not fresh. But he had to swallow his disgust.

All that day the Indian bands had been going off. Their camps were breaking up; they were dispersing
to their homes. The Plain was nearly deserted that afternoon when hostler Mike took Blazing
Star out into the heat of the sun to give him the thorough washing and cleaning that he surely
needed. A minute later, Mike came rushing across the square to the Colonel's office.

"Colonel, Colonel," he gasped, "come here, sir."

"What's the matter with you?" said the Colonel in a voice of wrath which boded ill for a new
blunder.

"Colonel, come at once. Come, it's Blazing Star."

There was a total lack of soldier decorum in the hostler's address. He was so intensely excited
that the Colonel overlooked the informality and went quickly to where Blazing Star was standing
tied to the washing post.

"There, sir; look there--and there!" ejaculated Mike with growing excitement, as he pointed
to Blazing Star's legs. "And look at that!" and he swept his bony finger round the big liquid
eye of the racer. The Colonel looked, looked closer, parted the hair, looked down to the roots
and saw paint--red paint, white paint, black paint--traces of horseshoes, red hands, white
patches and stripes; not much, but enough to tell the tale.

Without a question, Blazing Star was the Pinto that had won the race!

The simple Red men knew that the Buckskin was overmatched, so they secured the only horse on
the plains that could win. They drove the Crows away at the right moment to leave a red herring
trail. Then, having captured the stakes, they calmly collected two hundred and fifty dollars
for restoring him to his owner. The simple Red men!

And when Jim Hartigan heard of it he yelled with joy. He laughed; he almost cried. After all,
his horse had won; his Blazing Star was the steed of all the plains. He was tossed with different
moods--regret and joy, grim humour, sadness and madness; he was stirred to the depths; all
his primitive nature was set free. He did not sleep for hours, and when the dawn was near,
his boyhood memories filled his brain and he was back in the livery stable garret once again,
and repossessed of all his boyhood's ways and words he softly swore himself to sleep.

CHAPTER XLIV

A Fair Rider

Life at Cedar Mountain had dropped to normal. Charles Bylow and his wife were regular church
members now, and no warmer, truer friends on earth had Hartigan. Pat Bylow had gone to Deadwood
seeking work on the railway and it was said that his wife was still importing an occasional
flask; but no more sprees took place. Jack Lowe had left Cedar Mountain abruptly after the
Bylow affair. Higginbotham had spread the truth about Lowe's part in the drugged liquor and
the schoolteacher had received pointed advice to leave the town. He lost no time. Dr. Carson
and Jack Shives were alternately confronting each other with abstruse problems; John and Hannah
Higginbotham were building an addition to their house and getting a hired girl; and old man
Boyd was worrying over a possible extension of the road to Deadwood, which might seriously
hurt his business.

Jim found life very sweet as he grew into the hearts of the townsfolk and came to know their
perfectible qualities; he was acquiring a fine reputation for pulpit oratory. Every Thursday
and every Sunday afternoon and evening were spent at the Boyds' as their accepted son-in-law
to be. On these occasions it was his keenest pleasure to lay his sermons and plans before Belle
for her criticism and approval. When they were not together indoors, they were in the saddle
together; all the world knew, understood, and wished them joy.

The Hoomers had come to be prominent in the church now--at least, Ma Hoomer and Lou-Jane had.
It was Lou-Jane's doing. And Hartigan, after long delay, felt bound to pay them a pastoral
visit. Lou-Jane was heartiness and propriety combined. She chatted gaily on every subject he
opened; showed no forwardness; was even shy when, after dinner, he sat down near her. Her riding
at the racetrack was vividly in his mind and she blushed quite prettily when he referred to
it in admiration.

"You should see my pony take a fence," she said.

"Well, sure; that's what I'd like to see," was the response.

"Some day soon, maybe."

"Why not now?" he inquired.

"I must help mother with the dishes."

And he thought: "Isn't she fine? I like a girl to consider her mother." But he lingered and
chatted till the dishes were washed; then he suggested: "If I go out and saddle your pony,
will you show me that jump?"

"Certainly," she answered, with a merry laugh.

He went to the stable, saddled and brought the bay horse. Lou-Jane put her foot in the stirrup
and swung into the saddle before he could offer his help.

"Drop all the bars but the middle one." Hartigan did so, leaving only the three-foot bar of
the pasture. Lou-Jane circled off and cleared it without an effort.

"Raise it one," she shouted.

He did so, and over she went.

"Again."

Now, at four feet, the pony rose and went over.

"Another," and he raised to four and a half feet. As before, she and her pony sailed over like
one creature.

"Again," and he raised it to five feet. The pony rose with just a hint of effort. One front
hoof touched, but he made the jump in triumph. Lou-Jane laughed for joy and circled back, but,
warned by that toe tap, jumped no more. She leaped from the saddle before Jim could come near
to help and in his frank, beaming admiration she found what once she had hungered for in vain.

As he rode away that day, his unvoiced thought was: "Isn't she fine--and me misjudging her
all the time! I'm ashamed of myself."

Lou-Jane watched him out of sight, waving a hand to him as he topped the hill. The visit and
Hartigan's open delight in her riding had stirred her very much. Was it loyalty to Belle that
led her to throw up a barrier between herself and the Preacher? or was it knowledge that the
flowers are ever fairest in the fenced-in field? This much was sure, the interest of passing
attraction was giving place to a deeper feeling. A feeling stronger every month. Lou-Jane was
in the game to win; and was playing well.

August, bright and fruit-giving, was passing; September was near with its dryness, its payments
on the springtime promises; and Belle, as she gazed at the radiant sky or the skurrying prairie
dogs that tumbled, yapping, down their little craters, was tormented with the flight of the
glowing months. In October the young Preacher and she must say good-bye for a long, long time,
with little chance of any break till his course was completed, and he emerged a graduate of
Coulter. That was a gloomy thought. But others of equal dread had come of late.

Hartigan was paying repeated pastoral calls at Hoomers' and last week Jim and Lou-Jane had
ridden to Fort Ryan together. It was a sort of challenge race--on a dare--and Jim had told
Belle all about it before and after; but just the same, they had ridden there and back and,
evidently, had a joyful time.

Jim was a child. He always thought of himself as a coarse, cruel, rough brute; but really he
was as soft-hearted as a woman; and, outside of his fighting mood, nothing pained him more
than the idea of making any one unhappy. His fighting moods were big and often; but they had
existence only in the world of men. He believed himself very wise in the ways of life, but
he had not really begun to see, and he was quite sublimely unconscious of all the forces he
was setting in motion by his evident pleasure in the horsemanship of Lou-Jane Hoomer and in
their frequent rides together.

Lou-Jane had a voice of some acceptability and she was easily persuaded to join the choir.
A class in Sunday-school was added to her activities, and those who believed the religious
instinct to be followed closely by another on a lower plane, began to screw up their eyes and
smile when Lou-Jane appeared with Jim.

The glorious September of the hills was waning when a landslide was started by a single sentence
from Lou-Jane. She had ridden again with Jim to Fort Ryan. Her horse had cleared a jump that
his had shied at. Mrs. Waller had said to her across the table, half in fun and meaning it
every word:

"See here, I won't have you trifling with Mr. Hartigan's affections; remember, he's preëmpted."

Lou-Jane laughed with delight. And, looking very handsome all the while, she said with mock
humility: "No one would consider me a rival."

Jim told Belle every word of it; he was simplicity itself in such things; he didn't seem to
have any idea of the game. He was wholly oblivious of the little cloud which his anecdote left
on her. It was a little cloud, but many little clouds can make a canopy of gloom and beget
a storm. Then came the words. It was at one of the church evenings in the parsonage--a regular
affair, but not soaring to the glorious heights of a sociable--that the words were uttered
which wrought a mighty change. Jim had alluded to the inevitable journey East in October, not
half a month ahead now, when Lou-Jane Hoomer announced "I'm going East, too. My dad is giving
me a trip back to Rochester to see grandma," she said.

"Why, Rochester is just a little run across the lake from Coulter College," exclaimed Jim.

"Maybe I'll see you when I am there," said Lou-Jane. "What fun!"

Every one applauded and Jim said: "Well, that would make a pleasant change in the dreary grind."

Belle's only comment was, "How nice!" and she gave no sign of special interest; but a close
observer might have seen a tightening of her lips, a sudden tensity of look. The merry chatter
of the parlour ceased not and she seemed still a factor in all its life, but the iron had entered
her very soul. She played her part as leader, she gave no outward sign of the agony of fear
that filled her heart, but she took the earliest reasonable time to signal Jim and steal away.

CHAPTER XLV

The Life Game

Trump cards you must have to win in the life game; and you must know how to play them, or a
much poorer hand may beat you. You must know the exact time to play your highest trump, and
there is no general rule that is safe, but Belle had a woman's instinctive knowledge of the game.

In two weeks Jim was to leave Cedar Mountain. Belle had reasoned with him, coaxed him, cajoled
him into seeing that that was the right trail for him. He must complete his college course,
then they could marry with the sanction of the Church and be assured of a modest living. But
the rules were strict; no ungraduated student might marry. The inadequacy of the stipend, the
necessity for singleness of aim and thought, the imperative need of college atmosphere--these
were absolute. Viewed from any standpoint, celibacy was the one wise condition for the untrained
student.

It had taken all of Belle's power to make Jim face the horror of those classrooms in the far
East; and from time to time his deep repulsion broke into expression. Then she would let him
rage for a while, chew the bit, froth and rail till his mood was somewhat spent. And when the
inevitable reaction set in she would put her arm about him and would show him that the hard
way was surely the best way, and then paint a bright picture of their future together when
his rare gifts as an orator should bring him fame, and secure a position in the highest ranks
of the Church. Thus she had persuaded him, holding out the promise that every vacation should
be spent with her; curbing her own affections, even as she had curbed his, she walked the path
of wisdom--determined, resigned--in the knowledge that this was the way to win. And Jim had
come to face it calmly now, even as she had done. The minute details of the plan were being
filled in. Then came those little words from Lou-Jane.

Had Jim been a worldly-wise person with many girl friends and a mouth full of flattery for
them all, Belle would have paid no attention to the proposed visit of Lou-Jane to Rochester.
Knowing Jim as she did, and having a very shrewd idea of Lou-Jane's intentions, Belle realized
that this was a crisis, the climax of her life and hopes, that everything that made her life
worth while was staked on the very next move.

She said little as they walked home from the parsonage, but her hand, locked in his arm, clung
just a little more than usual, and he was moved by the tenderness of her "Good-night."

Little she slept that night; but tossed and softly moaned, "That woman, that coarse, common
woman! How can he see anything in her? She is nothing but an animal. And yet, what may happen
if he is East and she is playing around, with me far away? It cannot be. I know what men are.
Now he is mine; but, if I let him go far away and she follows----

"It cannot be! It must not be--at any price, I must stop it. I must hold him."

And she tossed and moaned, "At any price! At any price! I'd do anything----"

The simple, obvious plan was to put him under promise never to see or hear from Lou-Jane; but
her pride and her instincts rebelled at the thought. "What? Admit that there was danger from
that creature? No, no--why, that would have just the wrong effect on him; she would become
doubly interesting; no, that would not do. She would ignore that--that--that snake. And then what?

"At any price, this must be stopped"; and out of the whirling maelstrom of her thoughts came
this: "If I cannot keep her from going, I'll go, too!" How? In what capacity? Belle knew enough
of his mind to be sure that however the plan was carried out, it would shock his ideas of propriety
and be a losing game.

Lou-Jane was playing better than she was, and it maddened her ever more as she realized that
the present plans could end only in one way--the way that she, at any price, must stop. And
in the hours of tumult, of reasoning every course out to its bitter end, this at length came
clear: There was but one way--that was marry him now. It was that or wreck the happiness upon
which both their lives had been built. And yet that meant ruin to his whole career. She, herself,
had told him so a hundred times. "He must go back to college. He must not marry till his three
years were completed." These were her very words.

It seemed that ruin of his hopes was in one scale; ruin of hers in the other. And she tried
to pray for light and guidance; but there do seem to be times when the Lord is not interested
in our problems; at least, no light or guidance of the kind she sought for came.

And she wrought herself up into a state of desperation. "At any price, this must stop," she
kept saying over and over. Every expedient was turned in her mind and its outcome followed
as far as she could; and ever it came back to this--her hopes or his were to be sacrificed.

"I will not let him go," she said aloud, with all the force of a strong will become reckless.
"It would certainly be my grave; but it need not be his. There are other colleges and other
ways. I'm not afraid of that. At any price, I must keep him. I'll marry him now. We'll be married
at once. That will settle it."

       *       *       *       *       *

The storm was over. The one plan was clear. That she would take--take and win; but, oh, how
selfish she felt in taking it! She was sacrificing his career.

Yet ever she crushed the rising self-accusation with the "There are other colleges and other
ways. I'll open the way for that." That was the sop to her inner judge, but the motive power
was this: "At any price I must hold him." And convinced that the time had come to play her
highest trump she fell asleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

The following morning found Belle fully prepared for energetic action. She cleared the table
and washed the dishes, putting them in their accustomed places, and stopped suddenly with the
last of the china in her hand, wondering how long it would be before she held it again. Upstairs,
she quickly packed her hand-bag for "a one-night camp" and, keeping ears and eyes alert, noted
when at length her father had gone to his office and her mother had settled to her knitting.
Then she went to her room and set about a careful toilet. The rebellious forelock was curled
on a hot slate pencil and tucked back among its kind. Over each ear, she selected another lock
for like elaboration. She put on her most becoming dress and studied the effect of her two
brooches to make sure which one would help the most. She dashed a drop of "Violetta" on her
handkerchief and pinched her cheeks to heighten their colour and remove the traces of the previous
night's vigil. The beauty-parlour methods were not yet known in Cedar Mountain.

Jim always dropped in for a chat in the morning and it was not long before his cheery whistle
sounded as down the street he came to the tune of "Merry Bandon Town." In his right hand he
twirled a stout stick in a way that suggested a very practical knowledge of the shillelah.
The flush of health and of youth suffused his cheeks and mounted to his forehead. All signs
of worry over his impending fate were gone; indeed, no worry could live long in his buoyant
mind; its tense electric chargement was sure death to all such microbes. Arrived at the Boyds',
he did not stop to open the five-foot gate. Laying his fingers on the post, he vaulted over
the pickets.

Belle met him on the porch. From somewhere back, Ma Boyd called out a thin-voiced "good morning,"
as they went into the front room.

"My little girl looks pale to-day," he said, as he held her at arm's length.

"Yes, I didn't sleep well. I wish I could get out for a few hours. Can't you take me?"

"Sure, that's what I came for," he answered gaily.

"I don't feel much like riding, Jim. Can you get a good buckboard?"

"Why, yes, of course I can. Carson says I can have his double-harness buckboard any time, ponies
and all."

"Good! Just the thing. I want to go out to Bylow's Corner to make a call, and maybe farther,
if we can manage. I'll be ready by the time you are here with the rig."

She went to her desk and wrote a note to her father. Somehow, mother didn't seem to count.

     DEAR DAD: If I am not home to-night, I shall be with Aunt Collins.
     Lovingly, BELLE.

Then she put it in his tobacco jar, where he would be certain to see it on coming home for
dinner, and where Ma Boyd would never dream of looking.

When Jim returned she carried a hand-bag: "Some things I need," and she laughed happily as
he lifted her into the rig and inquired if she wasn't taking a trunk. Then away they went,
as they had so many times before.

Youth and health, love and beauty; October and the Dakota Hills--what a wonderful conjunction!
The world can do no better to multiply the joy of being alive. If either had a care, it was
quickly buried out of sight. Jim was in rollicking mood. Not a prairie dog sat up and shook
its tail in time to its voice, but Jim's humour suggested resemblances to some one that they
knew; this one looked like Baxter, the fat parson of the Congregationalists; "that little one's
name is likely Higginbotham; see how Hannah makes him skip around. And there goes Lawyer Scrimmons,"
he chuckled, as a blotched, bloated rattlesnake oozed along and out of sight at the hint of
danger. Two owls that gazed and blinked in silence were named for a pair of fat twin sisters
of their church; perfectly well-meaning, but without a word of conversation or any expression
but their soulful eyes. And a solitary owl that gazed from the top of a post straight up in
the sky was compared to an old-time Methodist woman with her eyes uplifted in prayer while
the collection plate was shoved under her nose.

Bylow's Corner was reached all too soon. As Jim was about to draw up Belle said: "Let's go
on farther; we can take them in on the road back. Let's go as far as Lookout Mountain." And
Jim was happy to go.

They were six miles from Cedar Mountain now, with no more houses by the road for miles. Belle
had fallen silent. It was all as she had planned, but somehow the firm resolve of the night
before seemed open to question now. She gazed absently away over the level, toward a distant
hillside, and the smile faded from her lips. To his next light speech she barely made response.
He threatened to charge a "thank you ma'am" at high speed if she didn't laugh. Then, getting
no response, he burst out:

"What the divil is the matter with my little girl to-day? Have ye anything on your mind, Belle?"

This was the fork in their trail: either she must tell him or give him up. For a fraction of
an instant she lived through the agony of doubt. Then, with a certainty she had not thought
possible, she said: "Yes, Jim, I surely have."

"Well, shake it off, Belle. Let some other mind have it. Use mine, if you'll allow that I have
one."

"I haven't slept all night for thinking of it, Jim," she began.

"Thinking of what?"

"Your going away."

His face clouded; he became suddenly silent and she continued:

"Jim, dear, I've tried to keep my feelings out of it altogether; I've argued it out, using
nothing but my judgment, and it seemed the wise thing for you to go back East to college. All
my judgment says: 'send him back'; but, oh, all my instincts say 'keep him here.'" She covered
both his hands with hers and put her cheek on them for a moment.

"I'm always trying to be wise, Jim, but I suppose I'm really very stupid and very weak like
most humans; and there come times when I feel like kicking everything over and saying 'what's
the use?' This time I'm going to let my feelings hold the reins."

"Why, Belle darling! That sounds more like me than you."

"Jim, as I lay awake last night, a voice seemed to be sounding in my heart: 'Don't let him
go. If he goes, you'll lose him, you'll lose each other.' Jim, do you suppose God brought you
and me together in this way, to be so much to each other, to be exactly fitted to round out
each other's life, to let us separate now?"

"Belle, I believe He sent me out here to meet you, and any one coming between us is going against
God."

"I know, Jim. And yet I have the feeling, which I can't shake off, that as sure as you go back
to college, I shall lose you."

"Then, by Heaven! I won't go; and that settles it, Belle. I'll chuck the whole thing." And
his forehead flushed with passion.

She dropped her face on her knees and shook in a paroxysm of weeping. All the emotional side
of her nature--so carefully repressed throughout these weeks and months of struggle--swept
away their barriers. Now that she had spoken the fear that was in her heart, the reality of
the danger that threatened their happiness crushed her down. Jim threw his arm around her.
"Belle, Belle, I can't see you cry that way. Belle, don't! We are not going to part."

It was long before she found her voice. In broken sounds she sobbed: "I can't give you up now,"
and she leaned toward him though still she hid her face.

"Belle, why do you talk of such a thing? You won't give me up, because I won't let you. I won't
go, Belle, that's settled."

Her only answer was to cling to him passionately. After a long silence, during which the ponies
dropped to a walk, she said half questioningly:

"Jim, we can't--give up all and--and--separate now."

"Belle darling," and Jim suddenly became calm and clear in thought, and a strange new sense
of power came on him as he gripped himself, "there are times when a man must just take the
bit in his teeth and break through everything, and I'm going to do that now. There's just one
way out of this; we're half-way to Deadwood. Let's go right on and get married. The college
and everything else can go to the divil so long as I can be with you.

"Will you agree to that?" he asked, lifting her head from his shoulder and looking into her eyes.

"Jim," she said, pushing him gently away from her and leaning back so that they occupied the
sides of the wide seat, "let's be fair with each other. For a long time you've had your fling
at the hardship of going back to Coulter while I have urged you to go. This is my fling at
it"--she smiled at him through her tears--"my rebellion, so perhaps we're quits. But the problem
still remains. I thought about it all last night and I decided I could not let you go--that
it meant the end of our hopes. When you first asked me, up the road, I doubted my right to
tell you the fears I had. But, oh, Jim, it is our happiness, ours, not yours or mine alone.
If we have that we can make the rest come right. If we lose that----"

"But we're not going to lose it," he cried, "if you'll only answer my question, Will you marry
me to-day if we go on to Deadwood?" He put out his arms to her and she yielded with a happy
sob to his ardour. Holding her and pressing his lips to hers, he said simply: "I am very happy."

After a little while she took his head between her palms and looking into his face with eyes
that sought his spirit, as though she would pledge her faith to his, she said: "You will never
be sorry for this, darling."

       *       *       *       *       *

At Lookout Mountain was the half-way house. They fed their horses, rested an hour, and then
sped on. At four o'clock they reached Deadwood. Jim put up the horses at the little inn, whose
parlour he remembered; together they went to the jeweller's shop, purchased a ring, and then
to the mayor's office.

The great man was busy with affairs of State, but the world has a kindly heart for lovers and
the experienced official can recognize them afar. He glanced over a crowd of many men advancing
various claims, and said, with a knowing smile, "Hello!"

"License," was all Jim said, and a subdued "Ha, Ha!" was the amused response.

The mayor pulled out a drawer, produced a form, and rattled off the usual questions: Name?
Age? Married before? etc., filling it in; then did the same for Belle. "Now stand up. You swear
to the truth of each and all of the statements?" Each of them raised a hand and swore.

"Want to finish it up now?" said the mayor.

"Yes."

"Put on the ring and hold her hand." Jim did so. The mayor stood up, holding their clasped
hands in his left. He raised his right and said: "James and Belle, in accordance with the laws
of the United States and of the State of Dakota, I pronounce you man and wife." He signed the
paper, gave each in turn the pen to sign, and said, "Now I want another witness."

"Sure, I'd like to be in on that there dokiment," said a rough voice.

"Can you write?"

"Bet your life I can."

A big heavy man came forward; the mayor handed him the pen; and, after the word "Witness" he
wrote, "Pat Bylow, of Cedar Mountain"; and then with a friendly grin he offered his hand to
the Preacher, and they gripped hands for the first time.

"Two dollars, please," said the mayor.

Jim paid it, and he and Belle stepped forth as man and wife.

CHAPTER XLVI

What Next?

According to an ancient custom, the newly wed should cease from their calling in life and disappear
for a time, and the practice has long been well honoured by observance. But Mr. and Mrs. Hartigan
had large and immediate problems to face. They breakfasted at Aunt Collins's and set out at
once for Cedar Mountain. Belle was quite aware, reasonably and instinctively, that she must
expect a reaction in Jim after the emotional outburst that had led him so far from their sober
plan of a week before; and she exerted herself to fill every minute with the interests of this
new life they had begun. But she was not prepared for something which did begin. From that
hour of the great decision Jim seemed bigger and stronger. She had been thinking of him as
a promising child. Now he was her equal in the world of affairs. He was growing faster than
she. They were near the edge of the town when she saw a cottage with the sign up, "To let."
It was very attractive in its fresh paint and obviously it had just been finished.

"Jim, maybe that was made for us. Let's see it." They tied up the horses and entered. It was
indeed small. The Preacher had to stoop at the front doorway and turn side-wise to enter the
cellarway, but it was clean and prettily placed with a view to the south, and had four rooms
and cellar.

Belle gazed from the window through the gap between the hills and said, "I wish I knew some
things that I will know within a week"; then, after a pause, "but I don't; let's go."

As they were getting into the buckboard Jim remembered having left behind a package which Aunt
Collins wished to send to her sister, Mrs. Boyd. As they drove hastily back they met a new,
strange sight in Deadwood. A man in a sort of military uniform was marching along carrying
a big drum which he pounded rhythmically; behind him were a dozen men and women in poke bonnets
and blue skirts. Above them was a flag inscribed "Salvation Army." They stopped to sing a hymn,
and were soon surrounded by a crowd of people who made scoffing remarks. The leader prayed,
and all joined in a warlike hymn punctuated by the thunderous drum.

There can be no question of the power of the drum on simple and primitive natures. Something
in Jim responded to it at once. The commonplace words of the commonplace leader were without
power to move, and the droning hymn was soporific rather than inspiring; but the rhythmic thump,
thump, thump, seemed to strike the chords of his being; and a hypnotic tensity began. He gazed
at the sad face of the fanatic, and forgot everything else, till Belle roused him with a businesslike,
"Let's go, Jim."

Arrived at Cedar Mountain, they knew at once from the smiles and greetings of a few friends
whom they met that the town had heard the news. They went to the Boyd home where Ma Boyd wept
and feebly scolded, then wept some more. Pa Boyd said "Humph!" Loading his pipe he smoked in
silence for five minutes and then began to laugh quietly. At length, clapping Hartigan good-naturedly
on the back, he observed: "Well, boys will be boys. But I did think Belle was too level-headed
and businesslike to go off on a panicky proposition like this. Howsomever, it's done; now the
question is, what next? I can forgive; folks can forgive, but the Church won't. Now what's next?"

Seeing that the home folks were well enough disposed, Jim didn't wait to discuss details but
set out alone to call on the Rev. Dr. Jebb. Mrs. Jebb opened the door herself and looking up
at the handsome face she laid her hand on his arm with a pleased laugh and said: "Good for you!"

Dr. Jebb was very grave. "My dear boy, don't you see how serious it is?"

"Just as serious as it can be, doctor; I know that," and Jim laughed.

"But do you realize you have broken with the Church? You cannot go to college now. You are
out of a living. You must think about some other means of livelihood."

"All of which I know, and knew when I took this step."

"As your pastor, I must chide you severely," said Jebb; "as your superior officer, I must pay
you the twenty-five dollars that is your full and quit payment of salary up to October thirty-first;
as the head of this body in Cedar Mountain, I must notify you that your connection with the
congregation as assistant pastor is ended; as your brother in Christ, I invoke God's blessing
on your somewhat hasty action; and, as your friend and Belle's, I offer you my poor help in
whatsoever way I can serve you." And as Jim took his leave, much touched by the old doctor's
gentleness, the pastor followed him to the door with his wife. With one of his sudden happy
impulses Jim stooped and kissed Mrs. Jebb and the two old people were still in the doorway
watching him as he turned for a final wave at the gate.

The blacksmith shop was the next place of call. Not that Jim sought it, but he couldn't well
avoid it, and he was hailed by all as he came near. Shives came forward in his characteristic
way, holding out his hand. "Wall, wall! Now I know you are human in spite of your job! You've
gone up about ten pegs in my scale."

Carson was there and met him with a broad grin. "So that's what you borrowed my team for? Ho,
ho! Well, I'll forgive you, if you bring them back and promise not to get the habit."

After much well-wishing Jim started down the street. He had only gone a short distance when
the sound of some one running and calling his name made him halt. It was Higginbotham who had
hastened on the first news of his arrival to make a business proposition. "Of course, I know,
Jim, that you are a capitalist, and Hannah and me have been thinking it would be a good idea
to establish a branch in Deadwood. Hannah is 'round calling on Belle, to fix it up."

As indeed she was at that very moment. Jim got the whole project from Belle on his return,
but there were serious difficulties in the way of Hannah's scheme. Jim had no taste or capacity
for business. All Belle's time would be needed for the household. Furthermore, Jim still felt
that the ministry was his calling. They pondered it long and discussed it freely. Belle knew
she could make the business a success, but it would be by sacrificing many things that they
had dreamed of and planned for their first home. That night they kneeled down together and
prayed for the guidance of the Great Guide. Jim opened the Bible three times, with his eyes
closed, and laid his finger at hazard on a text, and these were the three that decided his
fate: Kings, XIX:20--And he said unto him Go back again. 2 Thess. II:13--God hath from the
beginning chosen you to salvation. Daniel IV:35--According to his will in the army of heaven.

"There, Belle, could anything be plainer? We are ordered back to Deadwood. I must join the
Salvation Army."

Belle was torn between her business instincts, her religious training, and her absolute devotion
to her hero. But whatever the sum total, thus much all things agreed on: they must get away
from Cedar Mountain. Whither? There seemed no answer but Deadwood.

The next day Mrs. Jebb gave a reception for the young people and Cedar Mountain turned out
strong. Three was the hour named, and at four the parsonage was full. Belle was dressed in
the simple gray that intensified her colour, her brown eyes and gold-brown hair were shining;
standing at the end of the parlour she looked very lovely, and all Cedar Mountain glowed with
pride in her.

Jim was in his glory. He frolicked with everybody and was in the midst of a gallant speech
to Shives's daughter when some one tapped his arm and dragged him off. It was John Higginbotham,
anxious to get his scheme more clearly into Jim's mind. "Not only was the main line of insurance
good, but everything pointed to a land boom soon in Deadwood. Once the boom struck, the insurance
could be temporarily sidetracked. Then, allowing seven hundred and fifty dollars capital, of
which five hundred dollars could be invested in lots on 10 per cent. margin, this would secure
five thousand dollars' worth of lots, or fifty small lots at present prices; in the ordinary
course of the boom, this would speedily reach fifty thousand dollars, when, of course, he would
sell and----"

"Hartigan!" cried a voice. "Who, in Heaven's name, is concealing you? Oh, here you are." It
was Dr. Carson. "I've been thinking of you a lot ever since this news broke and I've decided
that you are more like a man than a preacher. Why don't you cut out all this piffling holy
talk and go in for something you can do? Now, my theory is that each man can do some one thing
better than any one else; and, if he has the luck to have that one thing for his life calling,
he's going to make a success. You know horses better than any man I know. You knew enough to
steal my team, for example, when you meant to elope."

"Now, see here," Hartigan objected.

