"Mr. Linn has not attempted an elaborate life of Greeley, but only an extended, a just and
thoroughly appreciative essay. Eminent success has crowned the effort. The general public,
as well as the more fastidious student, will find genuine pleasure and real benefit in perusing
this little volume."--Prof. William F. Dodd, New York Times Review.

D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, NEW YORK.

REMINISCENCES OF A SCIENTIST.

The Autobiography of Joseph Le Conte.

With portrait. 12mo. Cloth, $1.25 net.

Professor Le Conte was widely known as a man of science, and notably as a geologist. His later
years were spent at the University of California. But his early life was passed in the South;
there he was born and spent his youth; there he was living when the civil war brought ruin
to his home and his inherited estate. His reminiscences deal with phases of life in the South
that have unfailing interest to all students of American history. His account of the war as
he saw it has permanent value. He was in Georgia when Sherman marched across it. Professor
Le Conte knew Agassiz, and writes charmingly of his associations with him.

"Attractive because of its unaffected simplicity and directness."--Chicago Chronicle.

"Attractive by virtue of its frank simplicity."--New York Evening Post.

"Well worth reading even if the reader be not particularly interested in geology."--New York
American.

"This story of a beautiful, untiring life is worthy of consideration by every lover of truth."--St.
Paul Despatch.

D. APPLETON AND COMPANY,

NEW YORK. BOSTON. CHICAGO. LONDON.

THE AUTHENTIC LIFE OF LINCOLN.

"It will always remain the authentic life of Abraham Lincoln."--Chicago Herald.

Lincoln in Story.

The Life of the Martyr President told in Authenticated Anecdotes. Edited by Silas G. Pratt.
Illustrated, 12mo, Cloth, 75 cents net; postage, 9 cents additional.

"A valuable and exceedingly interesting addition to Lincoln literature."--Brooklyn Standard-Union.

"An excellent compilation on a subject of which the American people never grow tired."--Boston
Transcript.

D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, NEW YORK.

A PICTORIAL HISTORY OF THE WAR WITH SPAIN.

Cannon and Camera.

Sea and Land Battles of the Spanish-American War in Cuba, Camp Life, and the Return of the
Soldiers. Described and illustrated by J. C. Hemment. With over one hundred full-page pictures
taken by the Author, and an Index. Large 12mo. Cloth, $2.00.

"Accurate as well as picturesque.... Mr. Hemment has done his work well. In point of faithful
realism there has thus far been nothing better in the whole war literature."--Boston Journal.

"Clever and picturesque.... Over one hundred capital instantaneous photographs illustrate Mr.
Hemment's well-written record, and not the least of the book's recommendations is the outspoken
simplicity of its style, and the strong impression it makes upon the reader of being the uninfluenced
evidence of an eyewitness who 'draws the thing as he sees it' and without exaggeration or prejudice."--Sunday
School Times.

Recollections of the Civil War.

By CHARLES A. DANA. With Portrait. Large 12mo. Cloth, gilt top, uncut, $2.00.

"The book will rank among the trustworthy sources of knowledge of the civil war."--New York
Evening Post.

"Mr. Dana's official position as Assistant Secretary of War while the rebellion was in progress
gave him exceptional opportunities of observation which he was keen to take advantage of, while
his rare gift of terse and vivid expression enabled him to record what he saw in a series of
pen pictures that are little less than instantaneous photographs. The feature par excellence
of these reminiscences is their interesting character.... He tells you briefly but graphically
what he saw, heard, or did himself. One gains a very real and personal knowledge of the war
from these recollections."--Chicago Times-Herald.

D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, NEW YORK.