CROSS PURPOSES

by George MacDonald

CONTENTS.

CROSS PURPOSES THE SHADOWS

CROSS PURPOSES

CHAPTER I.

Once upon a time, the Queen of Fairyland, finding her own subjects far too well-behaved to
be amusing, took a sudden longing to have a mortal or two at her Court. So, after looking about
her for some time, she fixed upon two to bring to Fairyland.

But how were they to be brought?

"Please your majesty," said at last the daughter of the prime-minister, "I will bring the girl."

The speaker, whose name was Peaseblossom, after her great-great-grandmother, looked so graceful,
and hung her head so apologetically, that the Queen said at once,--

"How will you manage it, Peaseblossom?"

"I will open the road before her, and close it behind her."

"I have heard that you have pretty ways of doing things; so you may try."

The court happened to be held in an open forest-glade of smooth turf, upon which there was
just one mole-heap. As soon as the Queen had given her permission to Peaseblossom, up through
the mole-heap came the head of a goblin, which cried out,--

"Please your majesty, I will bring the boy."

"You!" exclaimed the Queen. "How will you do it?"

The goblin began to wriggle himself out of the earth, as if he had been a snake, and the whole
world his skin, till the court was convulsed with laughter. As soon as he got free, he began
to roll over and over, in every possible manner, rotatory and cylindrical, all at once, until
he reached the wood. The courtiers followed, holding their sides, so that the Queen was left
sitting upon her throne in solitary state.

When they reached the wood, the goblin, whose name was Toadstool, was nowhere to be seen. While
they were looking for him, out popped his head from the mole-heap again, with the words,--

"So, your majesty."

"You have taken your own time to answer," said the Queen, laughing.

"And my own way too, eh! your majesty?" rejoined Toadstool, grinning.

"No doubt. Well, you may try."

And the goblin, making as much of a bow as he could with only half his neck above ground, disappeared
under it.

CHAPTER II.

No mortal, or fairy either, can tell where Fairyland begins and where it ends. But somewhere
on the borders of Fairyland there was a nice country village, in which lived some nice country
people.

Alice was the daughter of the squire, a pretty, good-natured girl, whom her friends called
fairy-like, and others called silly.

One rosy summer evening, when the wall opposite her window was flaked all over with rosiness,
she threw herself down on her bed, and lay gazing at the wall. The rose-colour sank through
her eyes and dyed her brain, and she began to feel as if she were reading a story-book. That great man paralyzed always filled him with fear, even
tried to hide it because it had commanded her godmother.

- Lord's blessing - he said dully.

The high and mighty Grandee ignored. Fixed on the cards in his hand, wrapped Talma in gray
with red cross on his chest, was growing by the eyes troubled times of poor Josephine. Would
not understand that nothing in the world's largest, most impressive and worthy of respect that the
noble lord. In this opinion involved D. Pedro.

So had long since resolved confound all things around him in a chaotic mass, in which only two or
three appeared with a single character.

The girl waited with his arms crossed about a quarter of an hour.

Finally Mr. Quinones, after playing a fortune entry, deigned to stick in her a stern look that became
pale. He reached his aristocratic hand gesture worthy of his namesake
Peter the Great Russia and Josephine fell on her trembling lips and
left.

I was not quite as exalted the man with his wife so lovingly nourishing
a foundling, but consented because it flattered his vanity.

Amalia had told him, knowing where it hurt:

- Would raise it to anyone in domestic Lancia. We must do things otherwise.

D. Peter could not help but feel the weight of this undeniable truth.

Josefina crossed the room to go to bed.

To skim to Fernanda, who was sitting and alone, it's caught on the
fly by a little arm and pulled.

All the joy, all the tenderness at that time overflowed his heart, desbordose with violence on the
creature, who covered it with kisses.

Not agreed to any of his rival, who guessed expired.

Only thought that it was his daughter, his blood, the same image.

And kissed with rapture those blue eyes deep, melancholic, that pearly complexion, those golden
curls that circles his face as a halo of light.

- Oh, what beautiful hair!

What a beautiful thing, my God!

And pressed his lips against it and even dipped his face in his threads
with such delight and tenderness that was about to mourn.

At that moment a loud voice, imperious, rang in his ears.

- Have not you gone to bed, urchin!

And looking up saw Amalia, his face pale, his lips tight, she took
the girl violently by the arm giving it a strong shake and crawled
to the door.

XI

Amalia's anger.

The next morning, Paula, by order of her mistress, took the girl to her room iron, her in a
high chair and asked the maid scissors, stitching at the foot of the balcony.

- What are you doing? - Asked Josephine.

- Cut your hair.

- Why? ... I do not want to cut my hair.

And they came down firmly in the saddle. Paula turned to lift her.

- Hold on, now - he said sternly.

- I do not want! ... I do not want! - Said with a graceful resolution.

- The truth is that pity so beautiful a hair cut - said one of the
maids, who was ironing.

- What is it, daughter?

The boss, boss.

And taking one of the beautiful curls of her hair, spread it a snip.

- Let me go, Paula! - Cried the girl .-- I'll tell godmother!

- Yes,
sweetheart?

Are you going to tell really godmother? ... Well, I'll tell when we finish.

And pay more attention to their protests, dropping the buzz words, continued unperturbed task. But
she got back, irritated, angry.

Paula then asked for help to Concha, seamstress, and while it was subject to the chair, it was
stripping the one by one from all loops. Managed as best he could after the remaining hair.

-
What a pity - she cried the laundress.

- Child, so not bad either
- said Paula neatly combed.

Now appeared the lady in the box on the door.

- Godmother! See, godmother! ... Look, Paula and Concha me cut their hair.

Amalia advanced a few steps across the room and avoiding the gaze
of the girl stared severe in his head, and said imperiously, and cold:

-
Not a good thing.

You cut the monkfish.

And he walked away with the furrowed brow. Josefina, stunned, his eyes followed her. I had never
seen in the face of his godmother so coldly and harshly. Was shocked, thinking and left already without
making the slightest movement, Paula fulfill the mandate.

It soon became the head blond peeled like a peach.

The home erupted into laughter.

- Child of my soul that you have
retefeísima! - Exclaimed Maria ironing accent grief, but could not
help laughing.

- Do not say that woman - bitter dejillo Concha said
.-- If you are beautiful!

She was twenty-five years or more, extremely small, almost as small as Josephine hollow-eyed and
surly, whom all feared servants of the house.

Paula laughed too and going through his hands from the head of the creature.

- When you need a pitchers for oil, you know where you have to find - continued Concha.

Dissipated pity, guessing that the little girl had fallen into disgrace, the maids were delivered
joy changing the joke without grace, but that made them laugh madly. Josephine had remained still,
silent, with bowed head. Teasing finally managed to make its effect. Two tears came dripping
from her long lashes. Concha was annoyed:

- Do you cry for the little hair? .. Too bad whipping! ... Not your fault, but that you being raised
as a princess as much as us ... I say, unless we - added by low, - at last we have parents.

- Come on, Concha, leave!

... Never mind, Monin, soon will have hair again - said Mary with maternal stress.

The girl, shocked by the applause, began to sob and left the room.

When evening came in the room, that way, the count could not repress a gesture of anger and
nailed a questioning look on Amalia.

It said that gesture and that look with a provocative smile. And he said aloud as she was told
to cut hair because he had noticed that the girl began to boast.

- Sure! Both the flatter you that it has been unbearable!

The count, irritated, immediately tried once to approach the conversation
Fernanda and knotted the previous night.

They were talkative, affectionate. Fernanda had his life details Paris. Luis was singularly
expansive, not hiding the joy of his heart, speaking emotionally
from the angry eyes of Amalia perched on him.

In a break Fernanda raised smiling eyes towards his ex-boyfriend and asked, not without blushing a
little:

- Do not know why they've cut the girl's hair?

The count looked blank.

- Yesterday I praised him a lot and let me kiss him.

It was the first time that Fernanda was given cognizance of his secret.

Experienced strong shock. Her cheeks reddened. Those of her too. In
long time no words found to say.

In the following days, the count began to walk down the street repeated
Altavilla and to spend long periods in the cafe of Maranhao.

The company was moved to laciense ground up to size event. Since then more than three hundred
pairs of eyes will spied on and on. He stopped going every day at home and attended Quiñones
once in a while the meager gathering of the de Mere, as Lancia was saying, but actually no longer
in the world had more than one. Carmelita had died at least three years. No Nuncia remained
but the youngest, and that almost completely paralyzed. Chair to bed from bed to chair, was all
that was with work. Private was also morally of movement, lack of protective impulse that he
lent her his sister. Since it lowered the tomb, and who had no subject. This, far from cheerful,
plunged in a melancholy deep. As he passed suddenly to the category of person sui juris, the poor
girl had distress experienced incredible: all you scared, it was all conflicts which seemed impossible
to leave, threw least those harsh rebukes that if the shed were abundant
tears, had suppressed his youthful healthy starts and cut the dire
results that could lead to their inexperience.

They were his regular chats Pollastre some new, some roosters known and quite a number more beautiful
and ugly ladies who came to the house-hungry husband. Because the Niña, in this as in all religiously
kept the traditions inherited from her sister. Was resolute protector of all engagements that
were initiated in Lancia, by blundering that were. The small house on Calle del Carpio was
still forging the forge where marital happiness of the righteous neighbors Lancia.

The record that came over was Paco Gomez. The reason, he had been thrown from house Quiñones
as a result of a phrase of his. Asked a stranger in a circle Altavilla how the Grandee became paralyzed.
"In reality it is not paralyzed - said Paco, - because he has no injuries whatsoever, except that
the legs can not be with heraldry has gone to his head, and bend
it as a step.

"He knew a traitor Quiñones and ordered not to receive him.

He was the soul and joy of the party of the girl.

The incessant go with that mortified the latter had everyone constantly
spasm of laughter.

- Come on, Nuncia, very careful!

Do not talk too much, because you know you've seen the calves y. .. y. .. y. ..

The poor octogenarian blushed like a girl of fifteen. Nothing much as this suffocating unwelcome reminder
of the evening of swing.

Luis and Fernanda started to be here once or twice a week.

Far from the gleaming eyes Amalia, it was comfortable, regained her composure. They talked very
long times quietly, without anyone bothering them, on the contrary, the girl was careful to
provide sufficient time and space. Attended, however, home of Quiñones, saw secret Amalia when
it is required, but would appear colder, more elusive. She, warning him perfectly did not budge,
no one spoke of his ex-girlfriend. However, one day he could not contained:

- I know you entertain at home long hours of talking with Fernanda de Mere.

Cowardly denied.

- Be careful what you do - he continued, fixing his eyes he claims - because a treason could
get out side.

He was so accustomed to the domain of that awful woman, she felt a shudder cold, as if something
ominous and hovered overhead.

But when he went out into the street, outside the magnetic influence of those eyes that troubled
him, he felt invaded by a deaf irritation: "After all, why threaten me? Is it my wife? What rights
does about me? What we are doing is a grave sin, a crime. Who can deprive the repentance, reconciled
with God and be good? "Repentance was the Recently a vague wish, thanks to the fatigue of his
love and fear further divestment inspired him to hell. Now it became true longing. Truth that
offered greater attractive.

Courageously reject sin, purified, free from the eternal fire ... and also Fernanda possess.

Had
long criminal relations had only a blip, Josefina. If it was not for her, was gone for Lancia.
This creature, white and silent as a snowflake, which had the fragrance of lilies, the innocence
of doves, the sweetness melancholy of a moonlit night, spreading over his soul, tormented by
remorse, a balm to the deliciously refreshing. Many times, holding in his arms, asked surprised
how someone so innocent, so pure, so divine, could be the child of sin! But even during that same
girl was new and cruel torments.

Not her alone but from time to time, be forced to hide their feelings,
coldly kiss as other, more coolly than the rest, unable to call her
daughter's heart, do not feel warbling the tender name of father,
he was sad and at times he despaired.

Desquitábase when once in a while, very rarely, he consented to take
her to the farm.

They spent hours in ecstasy, holding on his knees, stroking furiously.

The girl had become accustomed to these violent expressions of love
and thanks.

Sometimes blonde felt his head wet by the tears of his friend.

Raised his eyes in surprise but seeing him smile, smiled too, and stretched her coral lips to
kiss.

- Why are you crying, Luis?

Do you pupa?

Joseph did not understand why it had more serious in the world to
mourn.

Luis loved tenderly, and that shocked and saddened that the coldness
that she usually wore.

Slowly had been guessing, with precocious instinct, that the count wanted more than the others
and to conceal.

She also adopted, following the example, an indifferent attitude toward him when in public. But
when alone, we gave with the same enthusiasm to expansions affection, and this without knowing
why, without realizing what he did.

From the day her godmother ordered off her hair, she noticed that
there was Josefina disgraced.

I no longer kiss with transportation, and did not meet their minimum food cravings, was no
longer the constant concern of the house. Amalia began to vex, to use her cold and indifferent tone,
and the maids followed the example of his wife. The poor girl without understanding what that
change meant, he felt his little heart tightened; explored with its beautiful deep eyes the faces and
tried to decipher the enigma that kept.

It became more serious, more suspicious, more timid.

And he refused to see that toys or goodies before lent her hands
full, he refrained from asking.

Amalia, instead of enjoying as before with their children because
it seemed outrun.

He ordered not take her morning at the bed, as usual. When encountered by chance in hallways,
passed by avoiding her. To all asking the closer to peevish tone:

- You have not washed it yet? But go to fix you. Or: "I was told you
could not the catechism. You'll make very lazy. Care that you're great,
because otherwise I locked in the cave of the mice. "

Before her
was busy taking her lessons, put the needle in the hand and guide
their tiny fingers. Now this task usually left to the maids. He lived
in a state grim concern that did not happen desadvertida the servants.
Josephine also guessed; I saw that her godmother was changed, not
only with respect to it, but his whole way of being. And there, vaguely
in the dark limbo of his thinking that spawned the idea was sad, suffering
and that this was the cause of your bad mood.

One day the lady was
alone in his cabinet. It had dropped into a chair. Still, head thrown
back and hands earrings, seemed asleep. However, Josephine that was
around the cabinet, dared to look through the crack in the door and
noted that it had eyes open, wide open, and his brow was furrowed
anxiously. Without knowing what that was done, with that blind children
have confidence in themselves, opened the door and into the room.
He approached the lady quietly, and fell suddenly on his lap, he said,
fixing her a look of timid affection

- Kiss me, godmother.

The lady
shook.

- How you doing here? Who gave you permission to enter? Have
not you been told not to go up without call you? - asked further wrinkling
his brow.

- I wanted to kiss - Josefina said dully.

- Let me kisses.
Go, go watch it again without my permission.

But the girl, overcome
by emotion, not knowing what to attribute this indifference and willing
overcome at all costs, next to mourn, fell further on his lap and
tried to climb to reach his face.

- Kiss me, godmother.

- Remove!
Let me! - Preventing it lifted the lady replied.

The girl persisted.

-
Do not you want me? Give me a kiss.

- To take off, kiddo! - Shouted
angry .-- Get out now!

At the same time gave a hard push. Josefina,
after staggering, fell to the ground, giving head at the foot of a
chair.

Alzose touching his sore spot, but did not cry. A sense of
dignity that many Sometimes you stay strong in children's hearts,
lent strength to resist tears gushing into her eyes. Turned to her
godmother a look of indescribable sadness and left running from the
room. When he reached the stairs he fell on a step and broke sobbing.

The
thorns of life began to dig cruelly delicate meats that girl, who
until then had found only flowers in their path. The detachment grew
Amalia day by day. At the same time so did the reserve and shyness
of their daughter. But as the end I was a kid, this sadness disipábase
sometimes the impulse of a whim. So it was when it really showed the
coldness and dislike of the lady.

- Madam, Josefina not wear the
green dress.

- What then?

- He says he is dirty.

Amalia got up,
went to the room of the girl and taking her by the arm and shaking
her roughly, said

- What pride is that? Do not you know, wrist, which
in this house you are nobody? What are you here mercy? Be careful
not to get angry, because when you least expect you planted in the
street where I have collected.

Maids heard these words and had very
present. He took no heed
of the intruders, but kept muttering to himself. And what do you think the owl was saying?
I will tell you. He was talking about the book that he held upside down in his foot.

"Stupid book this-s-s-s! Nothing in it at all! Everything upside down! Stupid ass-s-s-s! Says
owls can't read! I can read backwards!"

"I think that is the goblin again," said Richard, in a whisper. "However, if you ask a plain
question, he must give you a plain answer, for they are not allowed to tell downright lies
in Fairyland."

"Don't ask him, Richard; you know you gave him a dreadful blow."

"I gave him what he deserved, and he owes me the same.--Hallo! which is the way out?"

He wouldn't say if you please, because then it would not have been a plain question.

"Down-stairs," hissed the owl, without ever lifting his eyes from the book, which all the time
he read upside down, so learned was he.

"On your honour, as a respectable old owl?" asked Richard.

"No," hissed the owl; and Richard was almost sure that he was not really an owl. So he stood
staring at him for a few moments, when all at once, without lifting his eyes from the book,
the owl said, "I will sing a song," and began:--

 "Nobody knows the world but me.
  When they're all in bed, I sit up to see
  I'm a better student than students all,
  For I never read till the darkness fall;
  And I never read without my glasses,
  And that is how my wisdom passes.
    Howlowlwhoolhoolwoolool.

 "I can see the wind. Now who can do that?
  I see the dreams that he has in his hat;
  I see him snorting them out as he goes--
  Out at his stupid old trumpet-nose.
  Ten thousand things that you couldn't think
  I write them down with pen and ink.
    Howlowlwhooloolwhitit that's wit.

 "You may call it learning--'tis mother-wit.
  No one else sees the lady-moon sit
  On the sea, her nest, all night, but the owl,
  Hatching the boats and the long-legged fowl.
  When the oysters gape to sing by rote,
  She crams a pearl down each stupid throat.
    Howlowlwhitit that's wit, there's a fowl!"

And so singing, he threw the book in Richard's face, spread out his great, silent, soft wings,
and sped away into the depths of the tree. When the book struck Richard, he found that it was
only a lump of wet moss. By permission of Don Candido I say that blacks are toos do the same when the Guinea
them into his head. Pa toos then pull back as the mules and must jar with the leather. We'll
see. Why have Juio seven from here? Is it for lack of ate? Is it for lack of words? Is it
for lack of pig? Lack of conuco Why? Naa that makes them missing. Too that I have them in chocolate.
Why all the work? Why the long leather? Now do not work, so to speak, and verifies Don Liborio
Corpus to San Juan takes a face-down.

- If it is given me to speak my mind, interjected at this point the priest modestly, I think
is not to be expected from people as ignorant as the blacks, who judge and act which rational
creatures. Toilet would look for the reason of riots and crimes the instincts of justice and
law. No. The reason was perhaps the most fanciful, the most absurd, the less justified ...
It is, however, a rare coincidence time have raised many blacks and those farms that have changed
very little here your system to grind cane. Will these stupid creatures that they have included
increases work because instead of grinding with oxen or mules ground with steam? What do we know?
Worth investigating.

- Ya, "said Don Candido, always thoughtful, along with half-closed eyes columns ashy smoke that
escaped her mouth. The argument of my namesake is a good case black congo, false, talking
to other black African nations. He observed about their different natures and I know what I
mean. The deal more than anything else has to do with behavior of some blacks. All were born
for slavery, that is their natural condition; in their own country are nothing more than slaves,
or of a few masters or the devil. There are, however, they need rigorous, very rigorous, whip
it around to work; that there are good straight out of them what
you want.

- Assyria is, as the Don Candido, returned to get the scoop
Moya.

But I say that if there are blacks who do not complain about the treatment pueen, those are Mr.
Don Candido. They are like flowers, good eating, well put on, ca one with his conuco and filthy,
many home work not only from sunrise to sunset, and leather are not given by NAA and NAA, as
I have seen that is done in other mills. They take many little fatigues, two or three hours
on Sundays. And if not cane is milled almost too the rest of the time is yours to make basket,
fatten their pigs, hoeing their conucos ... Almost all the coals have a day of drum. What more
do you want these Endino? Neither the bishop is better.
 Richard walked straight
through it; and from the greater fear of being left behind, Alice faced the lesser fear of
going on. In a moment they were in total darkness. Alice clung to Richard's arm, and murmured,
almost against her will, "Dear Richard!" It was strange that fear should speak like love; but
it was in Fairyland. It was strange, too, that as soon as she spoke thus, Richard should fall
in love with her all at once. But what was more curious still was, that, at the same moment,
Richard saw her face. In spite of her fear, which had made her pale, she looked very lovely. "What reason was my uncle!" - He thought, without looking away from
the sea.

- Bah! - Murmured after a few moments - if a hundred times
I saw you in that case, a hundred times would do the same.

There are things fatal. I take this woman in the blood as a poison, and can only the last drop
out .-- He spent another moment thinking. The sea water that had bathed and the sky was falling
constantly, we chilled to the bone. The morning was dirty Cinderella.
 All about her and her path he
could see, and every minute saw better; but to his own path he was blind. He could not see
his hand when he held it straight before his face, so dark was it. But he could see Alice,
and that was better than seeing the way--ever so much.

At length Alice too began to see a face dawning through the darkness. It was Richard's face;
but it was far handsomer than when she saw it last. Her eyes had begun to give light too. And
she said to herself--"Can it be that I love the poor widow's son?--I suppose that must be it,"
she answered herself, with a smile; for she was not disgusted with herself at all. Richard
saw the smile, and was glad. Just come to invite you to take
a turn in the cave ... Cave of the mice ... you know. There can entertain in a rat stripped of
many that come to visit ... Come on, give me hand for the lead with all ceremony.

The girl went to stand behind a chair, thence, pursued by Amalia and Concha, ran around the
table and finally took refuge behind the butler.

- Manin! Manin, by God, hide me!

But he grabbed her arm and handed it to the lady. Each one by one they took the hand and dragged
her, despite his piercing cries.

- A cave no! The cave is not! Godmother, sorry! Kill me first. It
seems I have a lot of fear!

The cave is not that I eat the mice!

The servants went out into the hallway and witnessed the scene silent and serious. The cries
of the girl went missing in the dark and winding staircase leading
to the basement.

Amalia opened the door of the terrible cave and pushed her daughter
into the interior.

Closed fury, but she ran towards the exit door and took her hand. They heard a cry heartbreaking.
The Valencia opened the door again, gave a strong boost to the creature she fell to the floor and
locked it.

The cave was damp and black dungeon where only penetrated a few faint
rays of light a porthole open on top.

He served in the past to wine cellar.

Now there was no there than empty bottles.

The little girl was alone stood up, looked around mad with terror, tried to scream and Her voice
knotted in the throat, and finally, extending his hand, attack of a strong earthquake, fell faint.

After
half an hour the groom, who had witnessed the closure, moved by compassion, He approached the
door and looked through the keyhole. Could see nothing. He called very softly.

- Josephine.

The girl did not respond. He knocked louder. The same silence. Startled, she screamed and hit
the door with all his might not get answered. Then he hastened to give up part of what was, at the
risk of losing their jobs. Amalia Concha sent the key to see what was happening. Between her
and Paula went to the creature senseless, cold and rigid, with the characters of death printed on
the face. Fearful of the complications that This would occur, the Grandee's wife rushed to
get her into bed. Took little small to herself, but immediately declared a high fever. Llamosa
doctor. Found her badly. To explain the wound of the hand and the cardinals presented, Amalia,
fertile in lies, invented a story that the doctor believed, or pretended to believe.

He was between life and death a few days. Amalia was with eye during disease. No loss hurt the
creature on which he had poured the bitter gall your heart, but he waved the idea of ​​losing at once
his vengeance. Just the third days of being in bed Josephine, was reported last night that Fernanda
had left in the post-chaise to Madrid, and Luis only take four or
five days to meet with it.

Experienced violent shaking. A seething wave of bile filled his chest.
That night had a fever too. He escaped! There was no possible retaliation
for the traitor. Go to Madrid, marry, maybe there would receive the
news of the death of his daughter cry a little, after the caresses
of his beloved wife would forget it. Love those so long, so alive,
there would be more than a man walking his happiness in Europe, and
Lancia a poor old woman serving sad scoffing to the corridors of Altavilla.
Their flesh flaccid trembled. Vengeful instincts of their race shouted
angry, overwhelming. No, could not be! Before throwing his daughter
dead at the foot, before stick a dagger in the heart. 

He thought,
singular and terrible to tell her husband everything. So you sit there, young
gentleman; and you sit there, young lady."

He put a chair for one at one side of the hearth, and for the other at the other side, and
then drew his chair between them. The cat got upon his hump, and then set up her own. So here
was a wall that would let through no moonshine. But although both Richard and Alice were very
much amused, they did not like to be parted in this peremptory manner. Still they thought it
better not to anger the old man any more--in his own house, too.

But he had been once angered, and that was once too often, for he had made it a rule never
to forgive without taking it out in humiliation. Are you his mother?

Three or four times rebuked in this way, always taking advantage of their insolence and the microscopic
malice seamstress. After all, Mary, unable to endure with patience the spectacle, took the decision
to leave. There was a day a lady, and the Grilled excuse that it
hurt asked for the bill.

Not concealed from the real Amalia reason, it was aware of their murmuring. Concealed, however.

-
Yes, daughter, you understand that the ironing bored. You do not enjoy in good health. I'm
also below par for days. I have altered nervous system. Fighting life with a sick and now, to
finish off the party, get out that little girl, whom she founded
my hopes, so ungrateful and wicked!

I do not know how I have patience.

Mary hesitated.

- You see, ma'am ... Children are children.

Grandee's wife realized that if he continued on the subject, the laundress was going to say something
unpleasant and hastened to cut the conversation, paying your account
and dismissing with affability.

Did not prevent this that the home say in confidence, in a house where he was to serve what
was going on Quinones. The news was conveyed in confidence, also,
of each other. Soon enough people were aware of the cruelties were
that the child was committed.

The Count de Onis, to escape the public's
curiosity, that bothered him greatly, and even more to get rid of
Amalia, had moved, without telling it, was already near one month
at the Farm. His mother accompanied him. There had written to his
ex-mistress, but All day I thought so, to inform him of its decision. They walked towards the door. The old man took
no notice of them. The moon was shining brightly through the window; but instead of stepping
out into the moonlight when they opened the door, they stepped into a great beautiful hall,
through the high gothic windows of which the same moon was shining. Out of this hall they could
find no way, except by a staircase of stone which led upwards. They ascended it together. At
the top Alice let go Richard's hand to peep into a little room, which looked all the colours
of the rainbow, just like the inside of a diamond. Richard went a step or two along a corridor,
but finding she had left him, turned and looked into the chamber. He could see her nowhere.
The room was full of doors; and she must have mistaken the door. He heard her voice calling
him, and hurried in the direction of the sound. But he could see nothing of her. "More tricks,"
he said to himself. "It is of no use to stab this one. I must wait till I see what can be done."
Still he heard Alice calling him, and still he followed, as well as he could. At length he
came to a doorway, open to the air, through which the moonlight fell. Finally laughed.

- Look, Gonzalillo - Feliciano said .-- just spent a bald ... but times will come better. After the
bad always comes good. The things of the world must be taken with cachaça my boy. Growing up in
disgust and bile in the stomach, what is achieved? ... Here I am me. Last month lost a boat
... Everyone came to comfort me thinking he was desperate. I answered: It is true that I lost
Juanito, but, if he had lost Carmen, would not it be much worse? Same thing could lose one another,
because they were both at sea. You have been a disappointment: well ... but you have health.
Would not it be worse also you to put yourself sick? You have to think all my boy. Health
is the first ... You eat well, take good shots, and go ahead! than
others and forget ...

Gonzalo out of the Club without saying goodbye,
leaving the good Don Feliciano with the word in the mouth.

At home himself familiar with Don Rosendo Ventura drain. Against what everyone presumed, not made
a deep impression. On the contrary, from that day on it a trend señalóse to cheer, and participate
in social commerce, not surprisingly, left in the population. Began visiting the homes of
friends, to appear in the cafe, walking through the streets, to chat, discuss. He did not talk
about leaving. Until, with great astonishment of the village, one of the dances that took
place in the Lyceum, danced all night as a pollastre that pisase the room first.

However, Cecilia was very restless. Animation that his brother was so untimely, more like a nervous
breakdown. Above all, the strange smile, like a grimace, that was falling from the lips to
read the newsletter of the Young Sarrio, made her shudder at times.

Then came what was natural. After that insane excitement, wine, after a few days a deep, dark
depression. He spent three without leaving your room, not just dish test some of which Cecilia
had, and what is even worse, unable to sleep. With open eyes and ecstatic, he spent hours and
hours lying in bed, looking at darkness. On the third night, at about three light lit, dressed
and started writing a long letter to his uncle. Then he wrote another one with about Cecilia. Closed
and placed on the table first, so that they look suddenly pulled out a cigarette, lit it in the
light spark plug, and began pacing the room. Before he threw his cigarette end. He opened the
desk drawer and pulled out the revolver which he kept there. Brought to light saw that was
downloaded, which does not fail to surprise. He was almost certain to have loaded For a month,
more or less. He searched the box of capsules and not found. How very strange! He soon remembered
that Cecilia had been with him in the hand, and a sweet smile sad and drew on his lips. He went
to get their hands on guns. Found them equally discharged. The cartridges were missing from their
site. He remained motionless and pensive long time. Then, as if awakening from a dream, he
shook his head and sighed. He put on his hat, opened the door and down the stairs with great
secrecy. Passing the door of the main floor, hit her ear. He listened a moment, the face haggard,
his hair bristling. He had clearly heard the voice of his wife calling him from inside. After the
hallucination, continued to fall, opened the outer door with the key hanging pin, and hit
the streets.

Had not yet dawned, but in the East seemed a faint precursor of the
day clearly.

The morning was cool. A water falling from the sky fog menudísima marina. Without hesitation
he went the dock. He climbed to the second wall and looked at the sea, whose horizon at that time
was not very long, because of the fog. The previous days had blown the northwest, and had curled
and stirred up the bottom. Big waves spreading swollen from afar their riding huge roar and
crashed against the front of the Pawn, spitting the foam to the top. The boy's eyes encountered
a tender that was entering the port and danced like a walnut shell on the waves. That entry was
interested of course. Continued every twist and turn with eager attention, as if it will be
something. After fourth time, when it was moored to the dock, he felt the spur new thinking. Sighed
and whispered, "Come." And went on, rubbing against the railing of the waist wall.


  "Shadow-man, thou art a gloom
   Cast upon a shadow-tomb
   Through the endless shadow air,
   From the shadow sitting there,
   On a moveless shadow-throne,
   Glooming through the ages gone;
   North and south, and in and out,
   East and west, and all about,
   Flinging Shadows everywhere
   On the shadow-painted air
   Shadow-man, thou hast no story;
   Nothing but a shadow-glory." 

They left him alone at last. They prayed on their knees for a long time. When they finished
their prayer, Cecilia asked the nun who went to the kitchen to give orders so that you do
him, because he was faint.

As the nun left, alzose strongly.