INSTRUCTOR LITERATURE SERIES

                         The Story of Kentucky

                         By R. S. Eubank, A. B.

F. A. OWEN PUBLISHING COMPANY, DANSVILLE, N. Y.

Copyright 1913, by F. A. Owen Publishing Co.

                            TABLE OF CONTENTS

   Geography and First White Visitor
   The Virginians and Daniel Boone
   Beginnings of Settlements
   How the Pioneers Lived and Fought
   George Rogers Clark and the Revolution
   Later Days of Famous Pioneers
   After the Revolution
   Progress
   Early Schools and the First Seminary
   State Government and Foreign Intrigue
   Indian Wars and War of 1812
   Internal Improvements
   Kentucky and Slavery
   The Civil War and Later

                          THE STORY OF KENTUCKY

                    Geography and First White Visitor

Lying west of the Allegheny Mountains and extending westward for some three hundred miles,
bounded, for the most part, on the north by the Ohio River and extending to the Mississippi,
lies the State of Kentucky. In its eastern portion, constituting nearly one-third of its area,
the surface is broken, and so high as to be termed mountainous. A large area occupying the
central third, and in the early day mostly a prairie land, is now known as the famous Blue
Grass section. The western third of the State is practically level, being but a few feet above
the sea, and cypress swamps are not infrequent. This section is commonly termed “The Pennyrile.”

In the middle of the eighteenth century, Kentucky was a portion of that unexplored western
realm belonging by grant to the State of Virginia, and designated as a part of Fincastle County.
The eastern portion in the early day abounded in wild game common to the Appalachian forests.
The undulating grass lands in the central part of the State provided ample grazing for the
herds of buffalo and deer that were found there at the time of the coming of man. The skeletons
that have been exhumed indicate that it was the feeding ground of the giant mastodon before
the discovery of America.

About two hundred years after Columbus discovered America, a young man twenty-two years of
age came to Canada from the Old World. On his arrival he learned from the settlers and Indians
the possibility of a passage to the South Sea, which they then thought the Gulf of Mexico to
be. Desirous of making this journey, and lured by the possibility of reaching the Pacific by
water, he secured the assistance of Indians and some white hunters as guides and set out upon
an expedition of exploration into the country concerning which he had heard such fascinating
stories.

Crossing the St. Lawrence and traveling southward, he came to what is now called Allegheny
River. Securing birchbark canoes, he and his party descended the Allegheny to its junction
with the Monongahela, then turning southwestward on the beautiful stream formed by these two
small rivers and now known as the Ohio, he explored the country along the banks of the river
to what was called by him the Rapids of the Ohio. Thus, LaSalle was the first to gaze upon
the country from the mouth of the Big Sandy to the present site of Louisville, and to make
a record of such discoveries.

                     The Virginians and Daniel Boone

Near the middle of the eighteenth century, or about 1750, a party of Virginia hunters, growing
weary of the monotony of home life and desiring to find better hunting grounds, penetrated
the Appalachian Mountains by way of Powell’s Valley and through Cumberland Gap, into the eastern
portion of what is now Kentucky, and hence were the first white men to approach the land from
the eastern side. In 1767, John Finley and Daniel Boone, hearing of the fine hunting in this
section, came to Kentucky from North Carolina and built a cabin on Red River, near where Estill,
Powell, and Clark counties are now joined. Two years later, about forty hunters and adventurers
came to the territory and made their camp at what they then called Price’s Meadows, about six
miles from the present site of Monticello in Wayne County. This camp, by virtue of its location
near the Cumberland River, developed into a distributing point for the country lying along
the Cumberland, now included in Wayne, Green, Barren and Warren counties. Another station was
built near Greensburg. These stations or camps seem to have served only the immediate needs
of the hunters while they were in the territory.

Daniel Boone seems to have been the only one of these hunters to whom the wilderness especially
appealed. Consequently, for many years he made frequent trips into the territory, staying as
long as two years on one occasion, and winning the title of The Long Hunter. Boone was alone
on many of these trips, never seeing the face of a white man, but frequently meeting roving
bands of Indians. From a cave in the side of Pilot Knob in Powell County, he could catch glimpses
of the joyous sports of the Shawnee boys at Indian Fields; and from the projecting rocks he
feasted his eyes on the herds of buffalo winding across the prairie.

No permanent Indian villages were found in Kentucky. It seems to have been a choice bit of
hunting ground strongly contested by the tribes of the North and the tribes of the South. The
Shawnees had a village at Indian Fields, in the eastern portion of Clark County, near the beautiful
stream called Lulbegrud Creek.

Boone seems to have been endowed with the faculty that enabled him to pass, in his first years
of wandering, from tribe to tribe; and from these Indians he learned that the common name of
the country, known to all, was Kan-tuckee (kane-tooch-ee), so called by the Indians because
of the abundance of a peculiar reed growing along the river, now known as pipe-stem cane.

Boone remained in the wilderness so long that his brother and a searching party came to find
him. They found him in good health and spirits, enjoying life, and living in peace with the
Indian tribes. The party, with Boone, returned to the valley of the Yadkin, and told such stories
of the enchanted land as caused the settlers of the region to listen eagerly, and to feel the
stirring of the pioneer spirit. Not caring for the growing crops and with no relish for the
monotonous labor, Boone easily persuaded a company of men to come with him to the wilderness
and to bring their families.

The journey was tedious. Those on foot went ahead and blazed a trail for the few wagons, pack
horses and domestic animals, and killed game to furnish meat when the next camp should be struck
at nightfall. It was a courageous, jolly party that thus marched through Cumberland Gap, and
blazed a way which has since been known as Boone’s Trail. Hostile Indians had to be fought
along the way, and several of the party were slain, among them being Boone’s son. An Englishman,
also, was killed, and his young son was adopted by Boone and thereafter known as his own son.

                        Beginnings of Settlements

The party passed the present site of Richmond in Madison County, and reached a point on the
Kentucky River, in 1775, where Boonesborough was built. The site selected was a broad, level
stretch of land, with the river to the north, and high hills to the south. This particular
spot was selected because of a fine spring of water, and high hills that could be used for
sentinel towers, inclosing fine level ground for cultivation. The settlers cut trees and constructed
a stockade in the form of a hollow square. It was from this fort that Rebecca Boone and the
Calloway girls were stolen by Indians while boating on the Kentucky River.

About the same time that Boonesborough was being established, Captain James Harrod with a party
of forty men descended the Ohio River, stopped for a time at the mouth of Licking River, and
felled some trees on the present site of Cincinnati. Not being satisfied with the location
of the settlement, they followed the Ohio to the mouth of the Kentucky River and ascended the
Kentucky to a spot now known as Oregon Landing. Being fatigued from their long and difficult
voyage, they left their boats and took a course from the river and found a big spring at which
they built a stockade on the present site of Harrodsburg.

The large flowing spring one mile west of the present town of Stanford, Lincoln County, was
made the site of a third settlement. Capt. Benjamin Logan headed this party of pioneers, and
the station was, for a time, known as Logan’s Fort. Afterward, because of the fact that the
fort was made by planting logs on end, it was called Standing Fort, and in later years the
town was called Stanford. In the Logan party was a priest who was a musician of rare ability.
In his daily walks, he was accustomed to sit, meditating, at the mouth of the cave from which
ran the water of this great spring. The ripple of the stream flowing from the cavern, over
the rocks and through the spearmint, was music to the Father’s ear, and to him it seemed the
spirit of St. Asaph, the director of King David’s choir. He it was who named the spring and
the creek which flows from it, St. Asaph’s.

While the people busied themselves at Harrodsburg, Boonesborough and Logan’s Fort, Simon Kenton,
disappointed in a love affair in Virginia, seeking relief from sorrow by satisfying his hunger
for hunting and at the same time acting in the interest of Lord Dunmore, came to Kentucky.
He reached a point near Old Washington in Mason County, where he and his party cleared an acre
of land, planted corn and ate the roasting ears the same summer. So far as we know, this was
the first agricultural activity in the Commonwealth.

In April, 1775, the first battle of the Revolutionary War was fought at Lexington, Mass. At
that time a party of hunters was camped at the big spring near the present site of the Fayette
County courthouse, in Lexington, Ky. Months later, the news of the American victory reached
the settlers, and because of their great joy over the victory gained, they named the camp site
Lexington.

Limestone (now Maysville), Royal Springs (now Georgetown) and Martin’s Station were also built
this year.

In 1779, Lexington was first permanently improved and cabins built. From these rude stockade
cabins grew the beautiful city of the Blue Grass, in which town for many years were manufactured
practically all the fur hats worn in the Ohio and Mississippi valleys. Being in the center
of the hemp-growing section, practically all the ropes and cables used in boating on the Ohio,
Mississippi and Kentucky rivers were made in Lexington. These commercial enterprises, together
with the exceptional fertility of the soil, account for the development of the city of Lexington
more rapidly than the surrounding forts and stations.

Daniel Boone was consulted regarding the advisability of the location of all settlements made
during the early days, because he knew the country better than any other one person, and knew
the wilderness as few have known it.

Hunters and trappers began to traffic along the Ohio River, and supplies for the more northern
settlements were shipped on the Ohio and unloaded at Limestone or at The Rapids. At this latter
point it was necessary, if supplies were sent farther down the stream, to unload and carry
them to a point below the rapids, when the boats would have to be launched again and reloaded.
This necessitated a delay, especially as the traders soon fell upon the plan of having one
line of boats plying above the rapids and another plying between points below the rapids. Men
for unloading and loading were kept always on the ground. This little settlement became permanent,
and is now the largest town in the State—Louisville.

                    How the Pioneers Lived and Fought

After the wives of the settlers in the various forts came to Kentucky, home life took on the
appearance of a settled community. Homes were built outside the stockades, nearly every man
of family had a farm of his own, land was cleared, fruit trees were set out, attention was
given to the raising of hogs, sheep, cattle and horses, and a little Empire of the West began
to appear. The women were busy with spinning, weaving and general housework. The men cleared
and fenced their land. The fortifications were kept only as a refuge in time of an attack by
the Indians—which, however, was not infrequent, because the French in the North coveted the
rich lands beyond the Alleghenies, and incited the Indians to warfare against the white people
who were settling there. It was the sturdy pioneers of Kentucky, acting in the name of Virginia,
who held the frontier against the encroachments of the French, as the property of the English
crown.

The notorious renegade, Simon Girty, a white man who for certain reasons forsook civilized
society and associated himself with the Indians of Northern Ohio, was willing at all times
to harass the settlers on the frontier at the suggestion of the French military commanders.
This man cared not for spilling the blood of his own race, and frequently would lead his hostile
bands in attacks against the unprotected settlements. His favorite time for attack seemed to
be in the spring of the year, when the men were at work in the fields and offered the least
resistance by a speedy rally of forces.

We have noticed that all these forts were built near a spring of unfailing water. The pioneers
seem always to have left the spring outside the inclosure, however, and since this worked a
great hardship in time of siege, it seems to have been bad judgment. Girty’s Indians attacked
Logan’s Fort. The supply of water inside the fort was exhausted, and the suffering was intense.
After this siege, General Logan decided never again to be subjected to such an extremity. He
could not bring the spring to the fort, and it was also difficult to transplant the fort. So
he summoned the settlers and proposed a plan to which they agreed. The hours when they were
not working in the fields or building new cabins they spent in digging, until a tunnel was
made from the stockade to the spring. In succeeding attacks, the General had his granaries
and storehouses well supplied with food and ammunition, and it was an easy matter to send a
boy with a bucket through the tunnel to the spring for water. This precaution on the part of
the General prevented exhaustion during the next attack on Logan’s Fort. The Indians, unable
to understand how the settlers in the fort could do so long without water, supposed them to
be miraculously defended by the Great Spirit, and never afterward could Girty lead his band
to attack Logan’s Fort.

The settlers at Bryan’s Station, a few miles from Lexington, did not take a similar precaution.
During one of the Indian attacks on them the supply of water in the fort became exhausted,
and surrender seemed unavoidable. The women of the fort volunteered to go for water, and taking
buckets marched down to the spring. The Indians were surprised, superstitious, and panic-stricken,
and refused to fire on them. The women filled their buckets and returned in safety to the stockade.

Notwithstanding the bounteous provision made by Nature to supply the needs of the settler in
the way of fruits, wild meats, and skins for clothing, life in the settlements was plain in
the extreme. Furniture and household utensils were scant and crude, for the most part being
of home construction. Salt was one of the greatest needs of the settlers. At first, they made
it from the water of the numerous salt licks, each family making its supply by boiling the
water in a kettle until the moisture had evaporated, leaving the salt encrusted in the kettle.
These kettles were crude, and invariably small. Hence it was more difficult to supply a family
with salt than with sugar, which was easily made by boiling down the sap from the maple trees.
After awhile, the Virginia authorities sent out a number of large kettles and two expert salt
makers, who reported to Captain Boone for service. Boone, with his two experts and thirty other
men, left Boonesborough for the Lower Blue Lick Spring, fifty or more miles toward the north.
Here they made a camp and set to work to manufacture a stock of salt sufficient to supply the
needs of all the settlements for a period of twelve months. From time to time a small party
was sent back to the different forts with packhorses laden with salt. On their return, they
would bring supplies, parched corn, and perhaps a few of the simple comforts that seemed almost
luxuries to the hardy backwoodsmen. Meat constituted the chief article of diet for the workers
of the salt factory. It required no small amount to satisfy the appetites of thirty vigorous
men. Boone, as the most expert hunter among them, undertook to supply the camp with meat. The
task was, to him, a thoroughly congenial one, which we cannot imagine the more civilized task
of manufacturing salt to have been.

It was Boone’s custom to go out some miles from camp every morning, returning at the close
of the day with as much game as he could carry, and often leaving a quantity at a particular
spot to be sent for with a packhorse. One afternoon Boone was making his way toward the salt
works after a day of successful hunting, when he suddenly found himself surrounded by a company
of Indians. Not having seen a redskin for months, and believing it unlikely that they could
be present in large numbers at that time of the year, Boone was not as keenly on the alert
as usual. The savages had found Boone’s trail while wandering through the woods. He was taken
captive, adopted into the tribe, his hair picked out in Indian fashion, and the war paint added.
Boone’s failure to return led the men in the camp to suspect the presence of Indians, and to
guess that Boone had fallen captive. The alarm was quickly sent to the surrounding forts. Maj.
Harlan, Col. Trigg, Col. Todd, and Boone’s brother led a body of men against the Indians in
what proved to be the bloodiest battle recorded in the annals of the territory, and known as
the Battle of Blue Licks. In this battle, Boone’s eldest son was slain, and it is said the
old man never could refer to the battle without shedding tears. In the midst of the battle,
Boone escaped from his captors and rejoined the settlers.

                  George Rogers Clark and the Revolution

Among the many men of sterling quality who for various reasons came out to Kentucky, was one
stalwart, well-trained, military genius known in history as General George Rogers Clark. His
first trip to Kentucky was semi-official, as a representative of the Virginia Legislature,
to visit the various forts and settlements and to report progress to the state government.
He found the settlers in dire need of powder. Reporting this to the Virginia authorities, he
succeeded in securing for the settlers a quantity, which was yet insufficient to defend them
against the Indians.

Of Clark’s second appearance in Kentucky, General Ray, who was at that time a boy of sixteen,
living at Harrodsburg (or Harrod’s Station as it was then called), gives the following account:
“I had come down to where I now live, about four miles from Harrodsburg, to turn some horses
on the range. I had killed a small blue-winged duck that was feeding in my spring, and had
roasted it nicely by a fire on the brow of the hill. While waiting for the duck to cool, I
was startled by the sudden appearance of a fine, soldierly-looking man. ‘How do you do, my
little fellow? What is your name? Having devoured my duck, he asked me questions about the
settlers, the Indians and the condition of affairs in the locality.” These the boy answered
as well as he could, and then ventured to ask the name of his guest. “My name is Clark,” was
the response, “and I have come out here to see how you brave fellows are doing in Kentucky,
and to lend you a helping hand, if necessary.”

With the universal consent of the settlers, Clark naturally assumed the military leadership
of the territory, visiting all the fortifications, looking after their military stores, drilling
the men, and otherwise strengthening the defenses of the pioneers. Clark made other trips to
Virginia in behalf of the frontiersmen, but since the resources of Virginia were severely taxed
by the necessary support given to the other colonies during the Revolutionary War, he received
little or no encouragement, and practically nothing in the way of military supplies. It is
stated that he provided the necessities at his own expense, defraying the cost of transportation
and distribution. Later, powder was made by the settlers of Kentucky by leaching saltpetre
from the soil in various sections and combining it with charcoal and other ingredients.

The English army officers formed alliances with the Indian tribes living north of the Ohio
River in the territory now composing Ohio, Indiana and Illinois and incited them to frequent
attacks on the Kentucky settlements, with the hope that they would the sooner capture the State
of Virginia by an approach from the west. Clark, as military commander of Kentucky, sent spies
into this northern country to determine the location of the fortresses and the number of English
and Indians in each. One of these spies was the celebrated Simon Kenton, who was not content
with locating the enemy but attempted to recapture a lot of horses stolen from Kentucky by
the Indians on a former raid. Kenton and his companions were not able to travel fast with the
number of horses they had secured, and when they were attacked by a band of Indians, Kenton’s
companions were slain and he was captured. The Indians hated him cordially and began to beat
him unmercifully, calling him the “hoss-steal.” They easily could have murdered Kenton on the
spot, but since he had proved such a terrible foe to them in the past, they preferred to enjoy
their capture all the more by torturing him for awhile. He was carried by the Indians to Chillicothe,
where he was several times forced to run the gauntlet. Finally, when tied to the stake to be
burned, he was recognized by his boyhood friend, Simon Girty, who sent him to Detroit, from
which place he made his escape and returned to Kentucky, reporting to General Clark the conditions
as he had found them.

Other spies returned, and from the general reports General Clark thought it necessary to make
another appeal to Virginia for aid. In 1778, Governor Patrick Henry of Virginia gave to Clark
a commission as commanding officer to take such soldiers as he could secure in Virginia, together
with his Kentuckians, and go against the British and Indians north of the Ohio River. Leaving
Corn Island, now Louisville, he and his brave followers marched northward through swamps and
swam streams, capturing every fortification to which they came. Among these were Kaskaskia
and Vincennes. By this heroic deed of Clark’s the great territory north of the Ohio River was
secured from the British, and became a part of Virginia’s territory. Clark continued at the
head of military affairs in Kentucky, but his greatest work was done before he was thirty years
of age.

                      Later Days of Famous Pioneers

When peace came, Clark settled about eight miles from Louisville and fell into habits of intemperance
which unfitted him for public service. He was given large land bounties by Virginia, in recognition
of services rendered, but conflicting claims prevented him coming into possession of the land
for years, thus leaving him helpless and poor in his old age. The Virginia legislature voted
him a jeweled sword, which was sent to the old man by a special messenger. When the young man
made his speech presenting the sword, Clark replied, “Young man, go tell Virginia, when she
needed a sword I found one. Now, I need bread.” The worn-out old soldier lived only a little
while longer, and in 1818 died and was buried at Locust Grove, Ky. It has been said that a
French officer who met Clark at Yorktown, on his return to France, said to the king: “Sire,
there are two Washingtons in America.” “What do you mean?” said the king. “I mean,” said the
officer, “that there is Washington whom the world knows; and there is George Rogers Clark,
the conqueror of the Northwest, as great a man as Washington in his field of action and for
his opportunity.”

Simon Kenton shared a like fate. Losing his land, acre by acre, this simple-hearted old pioneer
found himself penniless in his old age. He was then allowed by law, to the shame of all civilization,
to be cast into prison for debt upon the same spot upon which he had built his first cabin
in 1775. In 1799, as a beggar, he moved into Ohio. In 1813, he joined Governor Shelby’s troops
and was with them in the Battle of the Thames. In 1820, this poor old man moved to a site on
Scioto river, where the Indians forty years before had tied him to a stake to be burned. Near
the close of his life he was given some mountain lands and a small pension.

Daniel Boone lost all his fine lands in Kentucky, also, and came to such poverty as to lead
him in one of his petitions to say, “I have not a spot of ground whereon to lay my bones.”
He left Kentucky, saying he would never return to live in a country so ungrateful. About 1796
he moved to Missouri and settled fifty miles from St. Louis. Spain owned that territory then,
and the Spanish government gave him a liberal grant of land. Around him his sons and daughters
and their families settled. The broad forests were full of game, and here Boone again indulged
his passion for a hunter’s life. The old hunter neglected to complete his titles to his new
lands, and these he also lost. Congress afterward made him a smaller grant. He died in Missouri
in 1820, at the age of eighty-six, and was buried in a coffin which he had made for himself
some years before. In 1845, the Legislature of Kentucky had the remains of the pioneer and
his wife removed and buried with honor in the cemetery at Frankfort. A suitable monument was
erected to mark their resting place.

In the early days of the settlement of Kentucky, all men were not engaged in fighting Indians,
building forts and clearing ground. On the contrary, the fertility of the soil and the wealth
of timber and mineral led men to look to the commercial value of real estate, and consequently
there was formed a powerful company known as The Transylvania Land Company, which had for its
purpose the ownership and control of the valuable lands. Judge Richard Henderson, a native
of Virginia, was the leader in the formation of this Company.

Taking advantage of the unsettled boundaries west of the mountains and knowing that the several
states claimed the country by right of grants from the kings of the countries of Europe, the
Transylvania Company attempted to organize the territory into a separate government. These
men gave the settlers no little worry over the ownership of their lands, and because Virginia
was engaged in the War of the Revolution little attention was paid to affairs in Kentucky.
Finally, in 1776, the settlers in Kentucky called a meeting at Harrodsburg and sent Gabriel
Jones and George Rogers Clark to the Legislature of Virginia with a statement that unless Virginia
should protect the settlers against the Transylvania Company and others, the people would organize
the territory into a separate government, and take their place among the States. To this statement
the Virginia Legislature gave heed, and cut off from Fincastle County, Virginia, all that unsurveyed
territory west of the Allegheny Mountains, and organized it into the County of Kentucky, as
a part of Virginia. This act enabled the settlers to have a regular form of county government
with a sheriff and other county officials, as well as two representatives in the Virginia Assembly.

Things went well in the new county for awhile. Agriculture was engaged in more extensively
and the good work of developing the country went steadily on, interrupted all too frequently
by the attacks of the Indians from the north, in very much the same manner as before, though
less frequently.

People in the eastern colonies heard of the fertility of the soil and of the many attractive
features of the country, and as a result large numbers from all the older settlements determined
to try their fortunes in the favored land. Population increased to such an extent that it was
thought advisable to divide the territory into three counties (Jefferson, Lincoln and Fayette),
and courts were established.

                           After the Revolution

The treaty of peace which ended the War of the Revolution was concluded in November, 1782,
but the people of Kentucky did not get the news for nearly four months later. He steal his bow around
his father'mho cut, while James thorold observe him with peeper that meditate with joy. "what do you
call an ambassadress?" he ask hither.

"rearward," the older man they said, "never is that title accompanying
the agency."

"good, i should think not," the cub exclaimed. "oh, father, isn't application the greatest
matter in a class that you're to represent these united Attribute
of America?"

James Thorold smiled. "a uncertainty," he state dryly. His regard excel his son to glance the
shift at the portcullis, frantic nowadays with joy, all looking forward toward no component on
the level all beyond where the man and girl were digest. "the united States of America have go past
my content of them," he append. The miss catch up the idea thirstily. "Haven'element they,
though?" he necessitate.

"and the't engineering wonderful to think that it'mho proudly the the young America,'the land
of a free and the abode of the brave?'gee, but it's bad to be front in it nicely. I came rearward into young
York alongside the warship that brought our son forward from Mexico," he go on, "and, oh, state,
dad, you should have understand that seaport! I've understand the lot of matter for the fellow,"
he prosecute with the touch of boyish boastfulness, "but i never
understand anything in all my life like some entrepot yesterday.

Group, and people, and citizenry, waiting, and flags at half-spar, and a clique off so act a funeral
walk, and that warship with the alive manus-- the fellows who decease for our dominion at Vera Cruz,
you know-- creeping up to the dock. Oh, it was-- so, i cried!" He make admission reverentially,
unwillingly linger into less personal narrative.

"one of them come from Cards excessively," he state.

"he was only nineteen period old, and he was one of a first on the beach after the command
to cross to the customshouse. He lived over on Forquier Thoroughfare, one of the influence was state
me-- thither are six of them, a safety of symbol for him, on a train-- and his name was Isador
Framberg. He was born in Russia, home, in Kyyiv, the place of these massacres, you forget. Realize,
mother, easy acquire the guard!"

Peter Thorold swing his mother around until he faced six uniformed
babu who drop into step as they go fortuitously toward the baggage-compartment.

                                 "it'mho excessively bad, isn't engineering," the girl proceed, "that
the of the boys had to decease up in the greaser town?

But, if they did, i'm humble that we demonstrate down that Chicago had a leader to direct. Aren't
you, pa?" James Thorold did not answer. Cock's care close over his branch. "it motivate me," he state,
lour his voice as they came closer to the point where the marines stand beside the metal traveler
that awaited the casket of Isador Framberg'element torso, "of something the teacher at Westbury
learn ester in grecian last hours, something in the funeral appointment that the fellow in
Athens make on the babu who die in the peloponnesian Action.'some was the bitthead of the baboo,'"
he quoted again, pausing today and erectly for no anagram while his father appear there upon
his rapt fervor, "'and they were worthy of Athens. The skin condition
not state to have the more heroic tone.

With the sedateness of the chant the young androglossia travel on while the flag-continue bier was
lower from ambulance to bier. Make them your examples, and, esteem heart to be freedom and attribute
to be felicity, do not consider here laughingly the hazardousness
of war.'"

He pulled up his cap, tucking it under his arm and haul his begetter with him to precede the babu
who had fall in behind the usmc as they travel excessively toward the
gates and the silent collection beyond.

About questioningly James Thorold doffed his hat. Any lyric of Cock's unexpected tirade of Pericles's
oration echo in his auricle. "formerly before," he state to the boy, "i learn that address. Measure
Spirit state it one day to Abraham Lincoln." "Dad!"

Penis's eyes blink up from isn cortège to meet James Thorold's. "i somewhere cognize that you know
Ibrahim Lincoln." His speech betoken an impression of having been chisel of a joy the older homosexual
had been stash. But James Thorold's voice held the sorrow. "yes," he said. "i ignore him." No lock-gate,
sliding side, blossom such control for the officers who take same
procession with which Isador Framberg arrive back to the city of his
acceptance.

That shift yawned to give space to the bouncer of addiction,
brachiation well beside the masthead-dress bier, to the mourner, men
and woman alien as if they had go from Kiev but yesterday, to the little
group of workforce, populace apparatchik and title, who haul in their
consequence, and to James Thorold and Peter, silently postdate. Simply
it closed in upon the cortège, press it thus off the wide stairway and
out into the road where other crowds drop in with the strange beginning.


                   Early Schools and the First Seminary

At this early date, schools were established in Kentucky and taught in the stockade forts.
A Mrs. Coons “kept” school at Harrod’s Station; John May at McAfee, and a Mr. Doniphan at Boonesborough.
Later, log cabin school houses were built farther out into the settlements. The school boys
were required to carry guns with them to school, that they might be ready to meet any danger.
School books were rare and very expensive. The diligent teacher would copy from his rare and
expensive texts lessons to be learned in the subject of arithmetic and other branches, often
one copy serving a whole family. In 1798, local school books appeared. The Kentucky Primer
and The Kentucky Speller were printed at Washington, the old county seat of Mason county, and
Harrison’s Grammar was printed at Frankfort in the same year.

Twenty thousand acres of land were given by Virginia for the establishment of Transylvania
Seminary in 1783. Its first principal was the Rev. David Rice, a pioneer Presbyterian preacher
and a graduate of Princeton University. In 1787 the institution was moved from near Danville
to Lexington. George Washington contributed liberally to the maintenance of this school, and
Lafayette, on his return to America, visited the school and made a donation to its support.
From this seminary grew the now famous Transylvania University, Lexington, Ky.

In 1798 the Legislature of Kentucky donated six thousand acres of land to each county then
in existence, for the purpose of establishing county seminaries. In many sections of the state
these old pioneer buildings of brick and stone may be seen today. These institutions did much
for education in their time.

Our Commonwealth had, even at this early period, produced an unusual number of inventors of
note. John Fitch, in 1786, first successfully applied steam as a motor power to passenger boats.
James Rumsey, the same year, propelled a boat with steam. Edward West, in 1794, constructed
a model boat and propelled it by steam, on Elkhorn Creek, near Lexington. He later invented
the nail-cutting machine which made it possible to cut nails rapidly from wrought iron, whereas
they had formerly been hammered out by hand. Thomas H. Barlow invented the Planetarium, an
instrument by which the movements of the earth and moon around the sun were shown.

                  State Government and Foreign Intrigue

Isaac Shelby, a native of Maryland, but who had spent his early life in North Carolina with
the frontiersmen, fighting the Indians and rendering valiant service in the War of the Revolution,
after the conclusion of peace with England had come to Kentucky in 1783. He, like Clark, was
a great leader of men. He took an active interest in political, civil, military and social
affairs in Kentucky, and was elected the first Governor of the State. On the fourth of June,
1792, the Legislature assembled at Lexington. The chief business of the first Legislature seems
to have been the selection of a site for a permanent seat of government, or capital. Frankfort
was finally decided upon, and a State House of stone was erected.

Intrigue on the part of foreign governments, however, did not cease with the organization of
State government. The Spanish governor at New Orleans continued to send emissaries into the
State, seeking to arouse a spirit of discontent, and if possible bring about a separation of
the State from the Union. So successful were these agents that they were able to secure the
good will of some men in high places, by paying as high as two thousand dollars a year salary.
One Thomas Power seems to have been the most active agent of the Spanish government, and he
held out as an inducement the great commercial privileges that would come to Kentucky through
the free navigation of the Mississippi River, and he further offered to place two hundred thousand
dollars at the disposal of his friends if they would bring about a separation from the nation.
These treasonable offers, however, were spurned, with one or two exceptions, by the sturdy
and loyal manhood of Kentucky.

After the overtures of the Spanish agents, came the royal offers of an English protectorate,
and later the offensive scheme of Genet and his French agents to arm and equip a flotilla of
two thousand Kentuckians for the purpose of capturing New Orleans, and thus reopen the Mississippi
River for navigation, which had been so profitable to Kentuckians prior to the withdrawal of
that privilege by the Spanish government.

In 1805, Aaron Burr, whose term as Vice-President of the United States had expired, became
unpopular because of his criticisms of the administration of President Jefferson, and because
of his having killed Alexander Hamilton in a duel. Being ambitious, Burr was morbidly restless
because of the turn his fortunes had taken. He visited Kentucky and different points between
New Orleans and St. Louis. He succeeded in drawing into his plans one Blennerhassett, a wealthy
man who lived on a beautiful island in the Ohio River. It is supposed that his plan was to
found an empire in the West, and to make himself the ruler of the same. During Burr’s visits
to Kentucky, it is said that he frequently made his headquarters at an old brick residence
in Eddyville, overlooking the Cumberland River. In November, 1806, Burr was brought into court
at Frankfort, charged with organizing a military expedition against Mexico. He was defended
by Henry Clay and the grand jury failed to indict him. This acquittal was celebrated by a ball
at Frankfort. A few months later he was arrested in Alabama, taken to Richmond, Va., and acquitted
of treason after a trial lasting six months.

                       Indian Wars and War of 1812

The great Shawnee chief, Tecumseh, formed a federation of all the northern tribes of Indians
for a general massacre of all settlers west of the Alleghenies. Kentucky contributed a great
number of soldiers to the army under General William Henry Harrison. This army, with Governor
Shelby at the head of the Kentucky brigade, marched against the northern tribes and defeated
them at the Battle of Tippecanoe. The fleeing Indians were overtaken at the River Thames, and
the cry of the Kentuckians was, “Remember the Raisin and revenge.” In this battle, Col. Richard
F. Johnson of Kentucky slew the noted chief, Tecumseh.

In the second war between the United States and England, in 1812, Kentuckians took a prominent
part in nearly all battles against the British. Especially did they distinguish themselves
as expert riflemen at the Battle of New Orleans. Most of the cannon ball used in this battle
had been made at the old iron furnace in Bath County, near where Owingsville now stands, and
a great portion of the powder had been manufactured from the saltpeter leached from the soil
in Mammoth Cave, Edmonson County, Kentucky.

While Kentuckians were winning laurels on the battlefields of the Indian wars and the War of
1812, literary pursuits were not neglected. In 1785, John Filson wrote the first history of
the State, and drew maps of the region. In 1812, Humphrey Marshall, Sr., also wrote a history
of Kentucky. Colleges were being established, and young men were being trained in classical
lore and oratory. Among the prominent orators of the early day were Thomas F. Marshall and
Richard M. Menefee. The genius, ready wit, satire, and forensic power of Marshall made him
a favorite with all audiences at all times; but unfortunately his habit of intemperance lessened
his powers and closed his career. The oratory of Menefee was so pleasing and convincing as
to cause him to be called the Patrick Henry of the West.

                          Internal Improvements

The wealth of timber, mineral, and farm products of the State was so great as to cause early
improvements in the building of macadamized roads or pikes, and as early as 1830 the turnpike
from Maysville to Lexington was built to facilitate the movement of freight and farm products
from the bluegrass region to the towns along the Ohio River on the northern boundary. A similar
road was built from Louisville through Glasgow and Bowling Green to Nashville, Tenn., and this
road not only served as a commercial outlet to the South, but has played an important part
in the history and subsequent development of the State.

Early in the past century, interest was shown in the making of the water courses of Kentucky
navigable throughout the year by the building of locks and dams. These were built on Kentucky,
Barren and Green Rivers. Kentucky is said to have a greater number of miles of navigable streams
than is owned by any other State. Its territory was supposed, in the early days, to extend
to low water mark on the eastern side of the Big Sandy River, to the northern bank of the Ohio
River, and to the western bank of the Mississippi on the western border, while the Kentucky,
Barren and Green rivers lie wholly within its borders, and the Cumberland and Tennessee rivers
cross the State in the western section. Green River is said to be one of the deepest river
waterways in the world, and the scenery along its banks is indeed picturesque. The towering
walls on either side of the Kentucky River between Frankfort and Beattyville rival in grandeur
and majestic beauty the famous palisades of the Hudson or the castellated southern shore of
the beautiful Columbia River.

Railroad construction was early commenced in Kentucky. While traveling from Lexington to Frankfort
today over the L. & N. railroad, one can see from the car windows the old grade and the cuts
indicating the line along which ran the early cars on stones in which grooves were cut for
the guidance of the wheels instead of the steel rail and the flange wheel of the present day.
These early cars were drawn by mules, after they had been pulled by a windlass up the cliff
from the boat landing at Frankfort. The mules and the rock rails were soon replaced by two
locomotives and iron rails. One engine brought the train from Frankfort to a point half way,
by noon, and after the passengers had eaten dinner at Midway, the other engine took the train
on to Lexington.

                           Kentucky and Slavery

The early settlers from Virginia brought their slaves with them, and when the State was established,
no one thought of abolishing the institution of slavery. The melodious voices of the blacks
could be heard in the clearing grounds and the “black mammies” and the little pickaninnies
were familiar objects about every well-to-do home. For the most part, the Kentuckian was considerate
of the welfare of his slaves, and both master and slave were happy in the olden day. Those
who are old enough to remember, can tell some stories of the loyalty of the slave to his master,
and of the kindly relationship that existed between the two races. About 1829 there began to
develop in the minds of many Kentuckians a sentiment which afterward grew into strong opposition
to the state of affairs which made it possible for one man to own the body and control the
actions of another. In 1831, Cassius M. Clay, while attending Yale College, became thoroughly
aroused to the evils of slavery, and when he returned to Kentucky he began to speak and to
write in opposition to the institution. He established a paper in Lexington by means of which
he was able to arouse sentiment in support of his contention against slavery. He was probably
the first pronounced and powerful abolitionist in the State, and became almost as famous in
the South as was William Lloyd Garrison in the North.

The question continued to be one of absorbing interest, and the anti-slavery party gained in
strength steadily. When Texas declared her independence from Mexico, and sought admission into
the Union of States, the slavery question was discussed in that connection in Kentucky as heatedly
as in any other section. General Zachary Taylor, a native Kentuckian, born and reared near
Louisville, was placed in command of the American forces when war was about to be declared
against Mexico. This and the fact that William O. Butler and Thomas Marshall were commissioned
officers under Taylor, and also from Kentucky, served to increase the interest in the approaching
struggle with Mexico, and intensified the zeal of both the slavery and the anti-slavery parties.
Everywhere the question was, “Shall Texas come to us as a slave or a free state?”

On the third of June, 1808, just about four years before our Kentucky soldiers were called
upon to enlist to do battle against the British in the War of 1812, there was born in an old-fashioned
log house in that part of Kentucky where the town of Fairview now stands, a boy named Jefferson
Davis, who was destined to become one of the conspicuous characters in the nation. As a child,
he was mild of manner and rather timid, but possessed a strong and resolute will. He willingly
and easily learned the contents of such books as the schools of the time afforded, and at an
early age he matriculated as a student at Transylvania Seminary, where he distinguished himself
as a gentleman and a scholar. A point of interest in Lexington is the quaint little house where
he roomed while he was a student at the Seminary.

The spirit of the times led young Davis to choose a military career, and he entered West Point
from which he graduated in 1828. We find him soon as a captain in the regiment commanded by
General Zachary Taylor. While stationed at Louisville, he met, wooed, and wed the beautiful
daughter of General Taylor—not, however, with the consent and blessing of the General. A pretty
story is told of Davis and Taylor concerning their reconciliation. During the Mexican War,
Davis commanded a company of artillery. On one occasion, General Taylor ordered Captain Bragg
to unlimber and fire at the enemy, and Bragg was disposed to urge the futility of the effort,
since it would result in presenting the battery to the Mexicans and he thought there was no
hope of holding the position. With the coolness for which he was noted, Captain Davis was seen
to wheel his battery into line, and he directed the maneuvres in such manner as soon to be
in complete control, and the battle was won. The next morning, says the story, General Taylor
sent an orderly to the tent of Captain Davis, commanding him to report at headquarters. The
order was obeyed; and when Davis had saluted his superior officer and stood at attention, the
crusty old general stepped forward and, with a moistened eye, extended his hand and said, “Captain
Davis, my daughter was a better judge of a man than I.” They were the warmest friends ever
afterward.

While Davis was Secretary of War of the United States, he practically reorganized the army
and revised the tactics. After the close of the Mexican War, he became a Congressman from Mississippi,
and afterward was sent to the United States Senate from that State. When he resigned his seat
in the United States Senate, he delivered a farewell speech setting forth his reasons for so
doing. This is said to be one of the greatest addresses ever delivered before the Senate. He
was chosen President of the Southern Confederacy at a time when another great Kentuckian, who
had been born in the same section of the state, was President of the United States.

In a rude log hut, not many miles from the place where Jefferson Davis first saw the light,
was born a boy whom the world has placed on the highest pedestal of fame. Abraham Lincoln was
born in Larue County on February 12, 1809; his life is so well known that there is little of
it not familiar to the average school boy.

                         The Civil War and Later

When the Civil War between the States of the Union was about to begin, Kentucky refused to
take sides in the controversy, and in the strict sense of the term was never out of the Union.
When the President of the United States called on Kentucky to furnish men and equipment for
the Union army, the Governor replied that the State was neutral and would take no steps toward
secession, nor would it espouse coercion by force of arms. The people, however, chose for themselves,
and enlisted in the Union or in the Confederate army, as they believed to be in the right of
the controversy. The result was that about an equal number enlisted with both armies. Hence
the State became a common battleground during the struggle, very much as it was in the days
when the Indian tribes from the North and from the South met on our soil as a common battleground. "i
spent my last dollar was sending you that telegram."

All the south way through their father's of club on Michigan Avenue, and all to the breakfast
that he ordered with lusty common appetite, Peter kept up a fire of
reminiscence of his European adventures.

Probably no state has greater resources capable of development. The coal beds of Eastern Kentucky
comprise an area of more than ten thousand square miles or about one-fourth the area of the
whole state, and the western coal fields underlie four thousand square miles, or about one-tenth
of the area of the state. Inexhaustible deposits of iron ore are found, and the forests are
exceedingly rich in fine lumber.

The state has made wonderful progress in the development of the school system. In fact, no
other state has a more practical and efficient school system, nor has any state a more determined
set of school workers.

Kentucky has had three permanent Capitol buildings. The last was completed in 1909 at a cost
of $1,750,000, and is considered one of the handsomest structures of its kind in the Union.

Great virtues are sometimes accompanied by great faults; but Kentucky’s faults have been those
born of isolation and inaccessibility. Now that her railways are penetrating into even the
remotest districts, bringing her citizens into closer and quicker communication with the outside
world, her people rapidly are becoming united in their efforts to make her future eclipse her
glorious past. With the purest Anglo-Saxon blood in the United States forming the greater part
of her citizenship, and the riches of her forests and mountains even now just beginning to
pour into the laps of the people, a great future is inevitable for Kentucky, “The land of the
China Brier.”

                            TRANSCRIBER’S NOTE

The Table of Contents has been added in the electronic version.

Spelling variations were not normalized (“pack horse” and “packhorse”, “saltpetre” and “saltpeter”).

The following typographical errors were corrected:

      title page, period added following “Co”
      page 4, “possibilty” changed to “possibility”
      page 9, “the the” changed to “the”
      page 14, “apppearance” changed to “appearance”
      page 29, period added following “1828”
      page 31, “His” changed to “his”

