A SKETCH OF THE CAUSES, OPERATIONS AND RESULTS OF THE SAN FRANCISCO VIGILANCE COMMITTEE IN 1856

By Stephen Palfrey Webb

1874

Stephen Palfrey Webb was born in Salem on March 20, 1804, the son of Capt. Stephen and Sarah
(Putnam) Webb. He was graduated from Harvard in 1824, and studied law with Hon. John Glen King,
after which he was admitted to the Essex Bar. He practiced law in Salem, served as Representative
and Senator in the Massachusetts Legislature, and was elected Mayor of Salem in 1842, serving
three years. He was Treasurer of the Essex Railroad Company in the late forties.

About 1853, he went to San Francisco, where he resided several years, serving as Mayor of that
city in 1854 and 1855. It was during this time that he witnessed the riotous mobs following
the Gold Rush of 1849, and upon his return Salem made notes for a lecture, which he delivered
in Salem; and later, with many additions, prepared this sketch, probably about 1874. He was
again elected Mayor of Salem, 1860-1862, and City Clerk, 1863-1870. He died in Salem on September
29, 1879. On May 26, 1834, he married Hannah H. B. Robinson of Salem.

There have been several accounts of the activities of the Vigilance Committee, but this is
firsthand information from one who was on the ground at the time, and for this reason it is
considered a valuable contribution to the history of those troublous days. It certainly is
a record of what a prominent, intelligent and observing eye-witness saw regarding this important
episode in the history of California. The original paper is now in the possession of his granddaughter,
Mrs. Raymond H. Oveson of Groton, Massachusetts.

Many of the evils which afflicted the people of San Francisco may be traced to the peculiar
circumstances attendant upon the settlement of California. The effect all over the world of
the discovery of gold at Sutter's Mill in 1848 was electric. A movement only paralleled by
that of the Crusades at once commenced. Adventurers of every character and description immediately
started for the far away land where gold was to be had for the gathering. The passage round
Cape Horn, which from the earliest times had been invested with a dreamy horror, and had inspired
a vague fear in every breast, was now dared with an audacity which only the all absorbing greed
for gold could have produced. Old condemned hulks which, at other times, it would not have
been deemed safe to remove from one part of the harbor to another, were hastily fitted up,
and with the aid of a little paint and a few as deceptive assurances of the owners, were instantly
filled with eager passengers and dispatched to do battle, as they might, with the storms and
perils of the deep during the tedious months through which the passage extended. The suffering
and distress consequent upon the packing so many human beings in so confined a space; the miserable
quality and insufficient quantity of the provisions supplied; the weariness and lassitude engendered
by the intolerable length of the voyage; the ill-temper and evil passions so sure to be roused
and inflamed by long and forced companionship without sympathy or affection, all tended to
make these trips, for the most part, all but intolerable, and in many cases left feelings of
hate and desire for revenge to be afterwards prosecuted to bloody issues.

The miseries generally endured were however sometimes enlivened and relieved by the most unexpected
calls for exertion. A passenger described his voyage from New York to San Francisco in 1849,
in company with several hundred others in a steamer of small size and the most limited capacity
in all respects, as an amusing instance of working one's passage already paid for in advance.
The old craft went groaning, creaking, laboring and pounding on for seven months before she
arrived at her destination. Short of provisions, every sailing vessel that was encountered
was boarded for supplies, and almost every port on the Atlantic and Pacific was entered for
the same purpose. Out of fuel, every few days, axes were distributed, and crew and passengers
landed to cut down trees to keep up steam for a few days longer. He expressed his conviction
that every point, headland, island and wooded tract on the coast from the Cape to San Francisco
had not only been seen by him, but had resounded with the sturdy blows of his axe during the
apparently interminable voyage. It is strangely amusing at all, isn't it? Always see, always hear, exploit every hour, every
heart sound out! What would I have give when those servant would have taken on the estate!
Twenty-five years in silence and hatred obedience must be read on his face, since it was been
there. I have him for a long time, but unfortunately looking at him only in vain. He leaned forward,
and the shape of his hands were a half-hearted gesture.

 Previous to this time, one or two ships in the course of a year
found their way through the Golden Gate and into the beautiful harbor of San Francisco in quest
of hides, horns and tallow, and gave languid employment to two or three Americans settled on
the sand hills, and engaged in collecting these articles of trade and commerce. In the closing
days of 1849, there were ninety-four thousand, three hundred and forty-four tons of shipping
in the harbor. The stream of immigration moved over the Plains, likewise; and through privation,
fatigue, sickness, and the strife of the elements, passed slowly and painfully on to the goal
of their hopes.

Thus pouring into California in every direction and by every route, this strange and heterogeneous
mass of men, the representatives of every occupation, honest and dishonest, creditable and
disgraceful; of every people under the sun, scattered through the gulches and ravines in the
mountains, or grouped themselves at certain points in cities, towns and villages of canons
or adobe. Perhaps never in the world's history did cities spring into existence so instantaneously,
and certainly never was their population so strangely diverse in language, habits and customs.
Of course gamblers of every kind and color; criminals of every shade and degree of atrocity;
knaves of every grade of skill in the arts of fraud and deceit abounded in every society and
place. In these early times gold was abundant, and any kind of honest labor was most richly
and extravagantly rewarded. The honest, industrious and able men of every community, therefore,
applied themselves strictly to business and would not be diverted from it by any considerations
of duty or of patriotism. Studiously abstaining from politics; positively refusing to accept
office; shirking constantly and systematically all jury and other public duty, which, onerous
in every community, was doubly so, as they thought, in that new country, they seemed never
to reflect that there was a portion, and that the worst, of the population, who would take
advantage of their remissness, and direct every institution of society to the promotion of
their own nefarious purposes.

Absorbed in their own pursuits, confident that a short time would enable them to realize their
great object of making a fortune and then leaving the country, the better portion of the community
abandoned the control of public affairs to whoever might be willing or desirous to assume it.
Of course there was no lack of men who had no earthly objection to assume all public duties
and fill all public offices. Politicians void of honesty and well-skilled in all the arts of
intrigue, whose great end and aim in life was to live out of the public treasury and grow rich
by public plunder, and whose most blissful occupation was to talk politics in pot houses and
groggeries; men of desperate fortunes who sought to mend them, not by honest labor, but by
opportunities for official pickings and stealings; bands of miscreants resembling foul and
unclean birds which clamor and fight for the chance of settling down upon and devouring the
body to which their keen scent hag directed them; all were astir and with but little effort
obtained all that they desired. The offices were thus filled by rapacious and unscrupulous
men. The agents who had helped to elect them, or impose them upon the people by fraud, were
supported and protected in their villainies; and in the consciousness of impunity for crime,
walked the streets heavily armed and ready on the instant to exact a bloody revenge for an
interference with their infamous schemes, or an attempt to bring them to merited punishment.

In San Francisco the effects of all this were visible at an early period in the prevalence
of crime and outrage; in the laxity with which offenders were prosecuted; in the squandering
of public property; the increasing burden of taxation; and the insecurity of life and property.
Now and then when the evils of the system weighed with the most depressing effect upon the
business part of the community, some spasmodic effort for a time produced a change. But a temporary
check only was applied. The snake was scotched, not killed. The ballot box upon whose sanctity,
in a Republican government must the liberties of the people depend, was in the hands of the
pliant tools of designing politicians, or of desperate knaves ready to bargain and sell the
result of the election to the party or individuals who would pay the largest sum for it. By
such infamous arts had many officials of law and justice been placed in situations of trust
and power. Could it reasonably be expected that they would honestly and fairly apply the law
to the punishment of the friends who had given them their offices, when they added to these
crimes against society, the scarcely more flagrant ones of robbery and murder? If it was possible,
the people did not believe it would be done. They saw enough to convince them that it was not
done. They saw an unarmed man shot down and instantly killed in one of the most frequented
streets of the city while endeavoring to escape from his pursuer. I once
heard the story of a wealthy patrician of ancient Rome, Valerius Asiaticus; the had such a beautiful
hill garden, that he aroused the envy of the Emperor Claudius, who on unsubstantiated slander
and even death sentenced.tenced. They saw a gambler, while quietly conversing
with the United States Marshal in the doorway of a store on Clay Street, draw a revolver from
his pocket and slay him upon the spot. They heard that gamblers and other notorious characters,
his associates and friends, had raised large sums; that able lawyers had been retained for
his defense; and then that his trial had ended in a disagreement of the Jury, soon to be followed,
as they believed, by a nolle prosequi, and the discharge of the red handed murderer. They saw
an Editor, for commenting on a homicide in the interior of the State, committed by a man claiming
to be respectable, and followed by his acquittal in the face of what appeared to be the clearest
evidence of his guilt; assaulted by the criminal in a public street in San Francisco, knocked
down from behind by a blow on the head from a loaded cane, and beaten into insensibility, and,
as seemed, to death; while three of the assailant's friends stood by, with cocked revolvers,
threatening to slay anyone who should interfere. Again they saw the farce of trial resulting,
as every one knew it would, in acquittal. At length, so confirmed and strengthened were villains
by the certainty of escape from punishment, that they did not even trouble themselves to become
assured of the identity of their victims. A worthy citizen in going home through Merchant Street
between eight and nine o'clock in the evening was approached from behind by a person who, pressing
his arm over his shoulder thrust a knife into his breast. Luckily the knife encountered in
its passage a thick pocket memorandum book which it cut through, and but for which, he would
have lost his life. The intended assassin undoubtedly mistook him for another person whom he
somewhat resembled. A few days after a gentleman passing by the Oriental Hotel heard the report
of a pistol, and was sensible of the passage of a ball through his hat in most uncomfortable
proximity to his head. A person immediately stepped up to him saying, "Excuse me, I thought
it was another man."

The ally of the people in times of difficulty and danger, the Press, seemed subservient from
choice to this vile domination, or overawed and controlled by it. Experience had proved that
its conductors could be true, bold, effective only at the peril of their lives. More than one
had suffered in his person the penalty of his allegiance to truth and duty; until at length
intimidated and desponding, they had ceased to struggle with the spirit of evil....

