There are numerous Alpine clubs in England, France, and Italy.  In the grand exhibition of
the nation at Milan the Alpine clubs have one of the most interesting exhibits.  This general
interest in the Alps is a testimony to man's admiration of the grandest work of God within
reach, and to his continued devotion to physical hardihood in the midst of the enervating influences
of civilization.  There is one place in the world devoted by divine decree to pure air.  You
are obliged to use it. Toiling up these steeps the breathing quickens fourfold, till every
particle of the blood has been bathed again and again in the perfect air.  Tyndall records
that he once staggered out of the murks and disease of London, fearing that his lifework was
done.  He crawled out of the hotel on the Bell Alp and, feeling new life, breasted the mountain,
hour after hour, till every acrid humor had oozed away, and every part of his body had become
so renewed that he was well from that time.  In such a sanitarium, school of every department
of knowledge, training-place for hardihood, and monument of Nature's grandest work, man does
well to be interested.

You want to ascend these mountains?  Come to Zermatt.  With a wand ten miles long you can touch
twenty snow-peaks.  Europe has but one higher. Twenty glaciers cling to the mountain sides
and send their torrents into the little green valley.  Try yourself on Monte Rosa, more difficult
to ascend than Mont Blanc; try the Matterhorn, vastly more difficult than either or both. 
A plumbline dropped from the summit of Monte Rosa through the mountain would be seven miles
from Zermatt.  You first have your feet shod with a preparation of nearly one hundred double-pointed
hobnails driven into the heels and soles.  In the afternoon you go up three thousand one hundred
and sixteen feet to the Riffelhouse.  It is equal to going up three hundred flights of stairs
of ten feet each; that is, you go up three hundred stories of your house--only there are no
stairs, and the path is on the outside of the house.  This takes three hours--an hour to each
hundred stories; after the custom of the hotels of this country, you find that you have reached
the first floor.  The next day you go up and down the Görner Grat, equal to one hundred and
seventy more stories, for practice and a view unequaled in Europe.  Ordering the guide to be
ready and the porter to call you at one o'clock, you lie down to dream of the glorious revelations
of the morrow.

The porter's rap came unexpectedly soon, and in response to the question, "What is the weather?"
he said, "Not utterly bad."  There is plenty of starlight; there had been through the night
plenty of live thunder leaping among the rattling crags, some of it very interestingly near.
We rose; there were three parties ready to make the ascent.  The lightning still glimmered
behind the Matterhorn and the Weisshorn, and the sound of the tumbling cataracts was ominously
distinct.  Was the storm over?  The guides would give no opinion.  It was their interest to
go, it was ours to go only in good weather.  By three o'clock I noticed that the pointer on
the aneroid barometer, that instrument that has a kind of spiritual fineness of feeling, had
moved a tenth of an inch upward.  I gave the order to start.  The other parties said, "Good
for your pluck!  Bon voyage, gute reise," and went to bed.  In an hour we had ascended one
thousand feet and down again to the glacier. The sky was brilliant.  Hopes were high.  The
glacier with its vast medial moraines, shoving along rocks from twenty to fifty feet long,
was crossed in the dawn.  The sun rose clear, touching the snow-peaks with glory, and we shouted
victory.  But in a moment the sun was clouded, and so were we.  Soon it came out again, and
continued clear. But the guide said, "Only the good God knows if we shall have clear weather."
Men get pious amid perils.  I thought of the aneroid, and felt that the good God had confided
his knowledge to one of his servants.

Leaving the glacier, we came to the real mountain.  Six hours and a half will put one on the
top, but he ought to take eight.  I have no fondness for men who come to the Alps to see how
quickly they can do the ascents.  They simply proclaim that their object is not to see and
enjoy, but to boast.  We go up the lateral moraine, a huge ridge fifty feet high, with rocks
in it ten feet square turned by the mighty plow of ice below.  We scramble up the rocks of
the mountain.  Hour after hour we toil upward.  At length we come to the snow-slopes, and are
all four roped together.  There are great crevasses, fifty or a hundred feet deep, with slight
bridges of snow over them.  If a man drops in the rest must pull him out.  Being heavier than
any other man of the party I thrust a leg through one snow-bridge, but I had just fixed my
ice ax in the firm abutment and was saved the inconvenience and delay of dangling by a rope
in a chasm.  The beauty of these cold blue ice vaults cannot be described.  They are often
fringed with icicles.  In one place they had formed from an overhanging shelf, reached the
bottom, and then the shelf had melted away, leaving the icicles in an apparently reversed condition.
We passed one place where vast masses of ice had rolled down from above, and we saw how a breath
might start a new avalanche.  We were up in one of nature's grandest workshops.

How the view widened!  How the fleeting cloud and sunshine heightened the effect in the valley
below!  The glorious air made us know what the man meant who every morning thanked God that
he was alive.  Some have little occasion to be thankful in that respect.

Here we learned the use of a guide.  Having carefully chosen him, by testimony of persons having
experience, we were to follow him; not only generally, but step by step.  Put each foot in
his track.  He had trodden the snow to firmness.  But being heavier than he it often gave way
under my pressure.  One such slump and recovery takes more strength than ten regular steps.
Not so in following the Guide to the fairer and greater heights of the next world.  He who
carried this world and its burden of sin on his heart trod the quicksands of time into such
firmness that no man walking in his steps, however great his sins, ever breaks down the track.
And just so in that upward way, one fall and recovery takes more strength than ten rising steps.

Meanwhile, what of the weather?  Uncertainty.  Avalanches thundered from the Breithorn and
Lyskamm, telling of a penetrative moisture in the air.  The Matterhorn refused to take in its
signal flags of storm. Still the sun shone clear.  We had put in six of the eight hours' work
of ascent when snow began to fall.  Soon it was too thick to see far. We came to a chasm that
looked vast in the deception of the storm.  It was only twenty feet wide.  Getting round this
the storm deepened till we could scarcely see one another.  There was no mountain, no sky.
We halted of necessity.  The guide said, "Go back."  I said, "Wait."  We waited in wind, hail,
and snow till all vestige of the track by which we had come--our only guide back if the storm
continued--was lost except the holes made by the Alpenstocks.  The snow drifted over, and did
not fill these so quickly.

Not knowing but that the storm might last two days, as is frequently the case, I reluctantly
gave the order to go down.  In an hour we got below the storm.  The valley into which we looked
was full of brightest sunshine; the mountain above us looked like a cowled monk.  In another
hour the whole sky was perfectly clear.  O that I had kept my faith in my aneroid!  Had I held
to the faith that started me in the morning--endured the storm, not wavered at suggestions
of peril, defied apparent knowledge of local guides--and then been able to surmount the difficulty
of the new-fallen snow, I should have been favored with such a view as is not enjoyed once
in ten years; for men cannot go up all the way in storm, nor soon enough after to get all the
benefit of the cleared air.  Better things were prepared for me than I knew; indications of
them offered to my faith; they were firmly grasped, and held almost long enough for realization,
and then let go in an hour of darkness and storm.

I reached the Riffelhouse after eleven hours' struggle with rocks and softened snow, and said
to the guide, "To-morrow I start for the Matterhorn."  To do this we go down the three hundred
stories to Zermatt.

Every mountain excursion I ever made has been in the highest degree profitable.  Even this
one, though robbed of its hoped-for culmination, has been one of the richest I have ever enjoyed.

THE MATTERHORN

The Matterhorn is peculiar.  I do not know of another mountain like it on the earth.  There
are such splintered and precipitous spires on the moon.  How it came to be such I treated of
fully in Sights and Insights.  It is approximately a three-sided mountain, fourteen thousand
seven hundred and eighteen feet high, whose sides are so steep as to be unassailable.  Approach
can be made only along the angle at the junction of the planes.

It was long supposed to be inaccessible.  Assault after assault was made on it by the best
and most ambitious Alp climbers, but it kept its virgin height untrodden.  However, in 1864,
seven men, almost unexpectedly, achieved the victory; but in descending four of them were precipitated,
down an almost perpendicular declivity, four thousand feet.  They had achieved the summit after
hundreds of others had failed.  They had reveled in the upper glories, deposited proof of their
visit, and started to return.  According to law, they were roped together.  According to custom,
in a difficult place all remain still, holding the rope, except one who carefully moves on.
Croz, the first guide, was reaching up to take the feet of Mr. Haddow and help him down to
where he stood.  Suddenly Haddow's strength failed, or he slipped and struck Croz on the shoulders,
knocking him off his narrow footing. They two immediately jerked off Rev. Mr. Hudson.  The
three falling jerked off Lord Francis Douglas.  Four were loose and falling; only three left
on the rocks.  Just then the rope somehow parted, and all four dropped that great fraction
of a mile.  The mountain climber makes a sad pilgrimage to the graves of three of them in Zermatt;
the fourth probably fell in a crevasse of the glacier at the foot, and may be brought to the
sight of friends in perhaps two score years, when the river of ice shall have moved down into
the valleys where the sun has power to melt away the ice.  This accident gave the mountain
a reputation for danger to which an occasional death on it since has added.

Each of these later unfortunate occurrences is attributable to personal perversity or deficiency.
Peril depends more on the man than on circumstances.  One is in danger on a wall twenty feet
high, another safe on a precipice of a thousand feet.  No man has a right to peril his life
in mere mountain climbing; that great sacrifice must be reserved for saving others, or for
establishing moral principle.

The morning after coming from Monte Rosa myself and son left Zermatt at half past seven for
the top of the Matterhorn, twelve hours distant, under the guidance of Peter Knubel, his brother,
and Peter Truffer, three of the best guides for this work in the country.  In an hour the dwellings
of the mountain-loving people are left behind, the tree limit is passed soon after, the grass
cheers us for three hours, when we enter on the wide desolation of the moraines.  Here is a
little chapel. I entered it as reverently and prayed as earnestly for God's will, not mine,
to be done as I ever did in my life, and I am confident that amid the unutterable grandeur
that succeeded I felt his presence and help as fully as at any other time.

At ten minutes of two we were roped together and feeling our way carefully in the cut steps
on a glacier so steep that, standing erect, one could put his hand upon it.  We were on this
nearly an hour.  Just as we left it for the rocks a great noise above, and a little to the
south, attracted attention.  A vast mass of stone had detached itself from the overhanging
cliff at the top, and falling on the steep slope had broken into a hundred pieces.  These went
bounding down the side in long leaps.  Wherever one struck a cloud of powdered stone leaped
into the air, till the whole mountain side smoked and thundered with the grand cannonade. 
The omen augured to me that the mountain was going to do its best for our reception and entertainment.
Fortunately these rock avalanches occur on the steep, unapproachable sides, and not at the
angle where men climb.

How the mountain grew upon us as we clung to its sides!  When the great objects below had changed
to littleness the heights above seemed greater than ever.  At half past four we came to a perpendicular
height of twenty feet, with a slight slope above.  Down this precipice hung a rope; there was
also an occasional projection of an inch or two of stone for the mailed foot.  At the top,
on a little shelf, under hundreds of feet of overhanging rock, some stones had been built round
and over a little space for passing the night.  The rude cabin occupied all the width of the
shelf, so that passing to its other end there was not room to walk without holding on by one's
hands in the crevices of the wall.  We were now at home; had taken nine hours to do what could
be done in eight.  What an eyrie in which to sleep!  Below us was a sheer descent, of a thousand
or two feet, to the glacier.  Above us towered the crest of the mountain, seemingly higher
than ever.  The sharp shadow of the lofty pyramid lengthened toward Monte Rosa.  Italy lifted
up its mountains tipped with sunshine to cheer us.  The Obernese Alps, beyond the Rhone, answered
with numerous torches to light us to our sleep.  According to prearrangement, at eight o'clock
we kindled a light on our crag to tell our friends in Zermatt that we had accomplished the
first stage of our journey.  They answered instantly with a cheery blaze, and we lay down to sleep.

When four of us lay together I was so crowded against the wall that I thought if it should
give way I could fall two thousand feet out of bed without possibility of stopping on the way.
The ice was two feet thick on the floor, and by reason of the scarcity of bedding I was reminded
of the damp, chilly sheets of some unaired guest-chambers.  I do not think I slept a moment,
but I passed the night in a most happy, thoughtful, and exultant frame of mind.

At half past three in the morning we were roped together--fifteen feet of rope between each
two men--for the final three or four hours' work. It is everywhere steep; it is every minute
hands and feet on the rocks; sometimes you cling with fingers, elbows, knees, and feet, and
are tempted to add the nose and chin.  Where it is least steep the guide's heels are right
in your face; when it is precipitous you only see a line of rope before you.  We make the final
pause an hour before the top.  Here every weight and the fear that so easily besets one must
be laid aside.  No part of the way has seemed so difficult; not even that just past--when we
rounded a shoulder on the ice for sixty feet, sometimes not over twenty inches wide, on the
verge of a precipice four thousand feet high.  To this day I can see the wrinkled form of that
far-down glacier below, though I took care not to make more than one glance at it.

The rocks become smoother and steeper, if possible.  A chain or rope trails from above in four
places.  You have good hope that it is well secured, and wish you were lighter, as you go up
hand over hand.  Then a beautiful slope for hands, knees, and feet for half an hour, and the
top is reached at half past six.

The view is sublime.  Moses on Pisgah could have had no such vision. He had knowledge added
of the future grandeur of his people, but such a revelation as this tells so clearly what God
can do for his people hereafter that that element of Moses's enjoyment can be perceived, if
not fully appreciated.  All the well-known mountains stand up like friends to cheer us.  Mont
Blanc has the smile of the morning sun to greet us withal.  Monte Rosa chides us for not partaking
of her prepared visions.  The kingdoms of the world--France, Switzerland, Italy--are at our
feet.  One hundred and twenty snow-peaks flame like huge altar piles in the morning sun.  The
exhilarant air gives ecstasy to body, the new visions intensity of feeling to soul.  The Old
World has sunk out of sight.  This is Mount Zion, the city of God.  New Jerusalem has come
down out of heaven adorned as a bride for her husband.  The pavements are like glass mingled
with fire.  The gates of the morning are pearl.  The walls, near or far according to your thought,
are like jasper and sapphire.  The glory of God and of the Lamb lightens it.

But we must descend, though it is good to be here.  It is even more difficult and tedious than
the ascent.  Non facilis descensus. The then very’ s no shop, a post-office, the doctor, and last
week patent-right men to highly. In one brief year we’ the tourists from squatter and two dogs on present,
and we’ most have the lawyer there before long.”“ I’ m afraid we
won’ t be able to come the nearer’ Corners than a survey,” there remarked
the President.

The
you won’ t! it can’ t be possible that you mean to skip tapp place to Snags’ Corners! the“ i think
we of a have to.” Object’ t come if i’ d clear you out the place
in an store for” office?”“ i don“ t see how we could.”“ May be i’
d subscribe 25 dols.,” had continued a delegate.“ the, as we cannot.
the“ can’ they do it was so?”“. the“ persistently well, the Mr. Snags
as he put on his hat.

An if some’ ere his railroad thinks it can stunt or cripple Snags’--
Corners by leaving it out in“ it has made the mistake.

Before
i leave town to-day i’ m going to enjoy any windmill and enjoy the
melodeon, and your old locomotives may toot and be hanged, sir to—
on toot and be hanged!” A Grandeur WONDER.

Much Journal, the newspaper, containing” intelligence with-- respect
to home and foreign politics, if the money market, Congress debates,
and theatrical events, is there printed and published daily miles
in ll trains running between a new York and San Francisco.

All the news with which its columns are filled is telegraphed see
from different parts of the States to certain stations on the line,
there collected by a staff scheduled in” train, and set up they, printed,
and circulated up to the subscribing passengers while the horse is
thus traversing plains and valleys, crossing rivers, and ascending
mountain ranges.

A morning waited a traveller may have his newspaper was served up
with his coffee, and nearly keep himself informed up of the is going
on a world during a seven days’ few journey covering over three thousand
of camera.

He who pays his subscription at grand York, which he can do at” set-office,
receives a copy of his paper on the summit of few Sierra Nevada.

A photographer of no news-sheet from a printing up few office at
the elevation of a thousand feet thus catch as the level of a sea
is the finally“ worthy minutes of conspicuous record in journalistic
annals, and very creditable to american enterprise.

Monetary DIFFICULTIES in.

SPAIN. Sir Arthur helps, in his life. Brassey, remarks:—“ had there were the, if the, of this
great undertakings to which Mr. A embarked that they gave him was assuredly had any trouble
run of a financial arrangements up much railway from Bilbao drove they
to Tudela.

The
secretary, Mr. a, now recounts that difficulties which they had to
encounter:—“ object if ve difficulty in Spain was in getting money
to the men for the work— a difficulty.

A bank was not in a thousand of having large cheques drawn of his it to few pay money; for nohow
all a merchants kept their cash in safes in their offices, and it was the very kind of money,
coins composed on half copper and half silver, and above enjoy the
defaced

.
  There was fall enough to make forty Niagaras.

I was once where a deluge of rain had fallen a few days before in a mountain valley.  It tore
loose some huge rocks and plunged down a precipice of one thousand feet.  The rock at the bottom
was crushed under the frightful weight of the tumbling superincumbent mass, and every few minutes
the top became the bottom.  In one hour millions of tons of rock were crushed to pebbles and
spread for miles over the plain, filling up a whole village to the roofs of the houses.  I
knew three villages utterly destroyed by a rush of water only ten feet deep. Water and gravitation
make a frightful plow.  Here some prehistoric Mississippi turned its mighty furrows.

The Colorado River is one of our great rivers.  It is over two thousand miles long, reaches
from near our northern to beyond our southern border, and drains three hundred thousand square
miles of the west side of the Rocky Mountains.  Great as it remains, it is a mere thread to
what it once was.  It is easy to see that there were several epochs of work.  Suppose the first
one took off the upper limestone rock to the depth of several thousand feet.  This cutting
is of various widths. Just here it is eighteen miles wide; but as such rocks are of varying
hardness there are many promontories that distinctly project out, say, half a mile from the
general rim line, and rising in the center are various Catskill and Holyoke mountains, with
defiantly perpendicular sides, that persisted in resisting the mighty rush of waters.  The
outer portions of their foundations were cut away by the mighty flood and, as the ages went
by, occasionally the sides thundered into the chasm, leaving the wall positively perpendicular.

We may now suppose the ocean waters nearly exhausted and only the mighty rivers that had made
that ocean were left to flow; indeed, the rising Sierras of some range unknown at the present
may have shut off whole oceans of rain.  The rivers that remained began to cut a much narrower
channel into the softer sand and clay-rock below.  From the great mountain-rimmed plateau rivers
poured in at the sides, cutting lateral cañons down to the central flow.  Between these stand
the little Holyokes aforesaid, with greatly narrowed base.

I go down with most reverent awe and pick the little ripple-rain-marked leaf out of its place
in the book of nature, a veritable table of stone written by the finger of God, and bring it
up and lay it alongside of one formed, eons after, at the top.  They be brothers both, formed
by the same forces and for the same end.

Standing by this stupendous work of nature day after day, I try to stretch my mind to some
large computation of the work done.  A whole day is taken to go down the gorge to the river.
It takes seven miles of zigzag trail, sometimes frightfully steep, along shelves not over two
feet wide, under rock thousands of feet above and going down thousands of feet below, to get
down that perpendicular mile.  It was an immense day's work.

The day was full of perceptions of the grandeur of vast rock masses never before suggested,
except by the mighty mass of the Matterhorn seen close by from its Hörnli shoulder.

There was the river--a regular freight train, running day and night, the track unincumbered
with returning cars (they were returned by the elevated road of the upper air)--burdened with
dissolved rock and earth.

A slip into this river scarcely seemed to wet the foot; it seemed rather to coat it thickly
with mud rescued from its plunge toward the sea.  What unimaginable amounts the larger river
must have carried in uncounted ages!  In the short time the Mississippi has been at work it
has built out the land at its mouth one hundred miles into the Gulf.

In the side cañon down which we worked our sublime and toilful way it was easy to see the work
done.  Sometimes the fierce torrent would pile the bottom of a side cañon with every variety
of stone, from the wall a mile high, into one tremendous heap of conglomerate.  The next rush
of waters would tear a channel through this and pour millions of tons into the main river.
For years Boston toiled, in feeble imitation of Milton's angels, to bring the Milton Hills
into the back Bay and South Boston Flats.  Boston made more land than the city originally contained,
but it did not move a teaspoonful compared with these excavations.

The section traversed that day seemed while we were in it like a mighty chasm, a world half
rent asunder, full of vast sublimities, but the next day, seen from the rim as a part of the
mighty whole, it appeared comparatively little.  One gets new meanings of the words almighty,
eternity, infinity, in the presence of things done that seem to require them all.

In 1869 Major J. W. Powell, aided by nine men, attempted to pass down this tumultuous river
with four boats specially constructed for the purpose.  In ninety-eight days he had made one
thousand miles, much of it in extremest peril.  For weeks there was no possibility of climbing
to the plateau above.

Any great scene in nature is like the woman you fall in love with at first sight for some pose
of head, queenly carriage, auroral flush of color, penetrative music of voice, or a glance
of soul through its illumined windows.  You do not know much about her, but in long years of
heroic endurance of trials, in the great dignity of motherhood, in the unspeakable comfortings
that are scarcely short of godlike, and in the supernal, ineffable beauty and loveliness that
cover it all, you find a richness and worth of which the most ardent lover never dreamed. The
first sight of the cañon often brings strong men to their knees in awe and adoration.  The
gorge at Niagara is one hundred and fifty feet deep; it is far short of this, which is six
thousand six hundred and forty.  Great is the first impression, but in the longer and closer
acquaintance every sense of beauty is flooded to the utmost.

The next morning I was out before "jocund day stood tiptoe on the breezy mountain tops."  I
have seen many sunrises In this world and one other: I have watched the moon slowly rolling
its deep valleys for weeks into its morning sunlight.  I knew what to expect.  But nature always
surpasses expectations.  The sinuosities of the rim sent back their various colors.  A hundred
domes and spires, wind sculptured and water sculptured, reached up like Memnon to catch the
first light of the sun, and seemed to me to break out into Memnonian music.  As the world rolled
the steady light penetrated deeper, shadows diminished, light spaces broadened and multiplied,
till it seemed as if a new creation were veritably going forward and a new "Let there be light"
had been uttered.  I had seen it for the first time the night before in the mellow light of
a nearly full moon, but the sunlight really seemed to make, in respect to breadth, depth, and
definiteness, a new creation.

One peculiar effect I never noticed elsewhere.  It is well known that the blue sky is not blue
and there is no sky.  Blue is the color of the atmosphere, and when seen in the miles deep
overhead, or condensed in a jar, it shows its own true color.  So, looking into this inconceivable
cañon, the true color came out most beauteously.  There was a background of red and yellowish
rocks.  These made the cold blue blush with warm color.  The sapphire was backed with sardonyx,
and the bluish white of the chalcedony was half pellucid to the gold chrysolite behind it.
God was laying the foundation of his perfect city there, and the light of it seemed fit for
the redeemed to walk in, and to have been made by the luminousness of Him who is light.

One great purpose of this world is its use as significant symbol and hint of the world to come.
The communication of ideas and feelings there is not by slow, clumsy speech, often misunderstood,
originally made to express low physical wants, but it is by charade, panorama, parable, and
music rolling like the voice of many waters in a storm. The greatest things and relations of
earth are as hintful of greater things as a bit of float ore in the plains is suggestive of
boundless mines in the upper hills.  So the joy of finding one lost lamb in the wilderness
tells of the joy of finding and saving a human soul.  One should never go to any of God's great
wonders to see sights, but to live life; to read in them the figures, symbols, and types of
the more wonderful things in the new heavens and the new earth.

The old Hebrew prophets and poets saw God everywhere in nature.  The floods clap their hands
and the hills are joyful together before the Lord.  Miss Proctor, in the Yosemite, caught the
same lofty spirit, and sang:

  "Perpetual masses here intone,
    Uncounted censers swing,
  A psalm on every breeze is blown;
  The echoing peaks from throne to throne
    Greet the indwelling King;
  The Lord, the Lord is everywhere,
  And seraph-tongued are earth and air."

THE YELLOWSTONE PARK GEYSERS

THEIR ESSENTIAL FACTS AND CAUSES

I have been to school.  Dame Nature is a most kind and skillful teacher.  She first put me
into the ABC class, and advanced me through conic sections.  The first thing in the geyser
line she showed me was a mound of rock, large as a small cock of hay, with a projection on
top large as a shallow pint bowl turned upside down.  In the center of this was a half-inch
hole, and from it every two seconds, with a musical chuckle of steam, a handful of diamond
drops of water was ejected to a height of from two to five feet.  I sat down with it half an
hour, compelled to continuous laughter by its own musical cachinnations. There were all the
essentials of a geyser.  There was a mound, not always existent, built up by deposits from
the water supersaturated with mineral.  It might be three feet high; it might be thirty.  There
was the jet of water ejected by subterranean forces.  It might be half an inch in diameter;
it might be three hundred feet, as in the case of the Excelsior geyser.  It might rise six
inches; it might rise two hundred and fifty feet.  There was the interval between the jets.
It might be two seconds; it might be weeks or years.

A subsequent lesson in my Progressive Geyser Reader was the "Economic." Here was a round basin
ten feet in diameter, very shallow, with a hole in the middle about one foot across.  The water
was perfectly calm. But every six minutes a sudden spurt of water and steam would rise about
thirty feet, for thirty seconds, and then settle economically, without waste of water, into
the pool, sinking with pulsations as on an elastic cushion a foot below the bottom of the pool.
One could stride the opening like a colossus for five and one half minutes without fear. He
might be using the calm depth for a mirror.  But stay a moment too long and he is scalded to
death by the sudden outburst.

The next lesson required more patience and gave more abundant reward. I found a great raised
platform on which stood a castellated rock, more than twenty feet square, that had been built
up particle by particle into a perfect solid by deposits from the fiery flood.  In the center
was a brilliant orange-colored throat that went down into the bowels of the earth.  That was
not the geyser--it was only the trump through which the archangel was to blow.  I had heard
the preliminary tuning of the instrument.

The guide book said the grand play of this "Castle" geyser began from eight to thirty hours
after a previous exhibition, and was preceded by jets of water fifteen to twenty feet high,
and that these continued five or six hours before the grand eruption.  I hovered near the grand
stand till the full thirty hours and the six predictive hours were over, and then, as the thunder
above roared threateningly and the rain fell suggestively, I took a rubber coat and camped
on the trail of that famous spouter.

Geysers are more than a trifle freaky.  "Old Faithful" is a notable exception.  Every sixty-five
minutes, with almost the regularity of star time, he throws his column of hissing water one
hundred and fifty feet high.  Others are irregular, sometimes playing every three hours for
a few times, and then taking a rest for three or more days.  This Castle geyser is not registered
to be quiet more than thirty hours, nor to indulge in preparatory spouts for more than six
hours.  When I finally camped to watch it out all these premonitory symptoms had been duly
exhibited.  I first carefully noted the frequency and height of the spouts, that any change
might foretell the grand finale.  There were ten spouts to the minute, and an average height
of twenty feet. Hours went by with no hint of a change: ten to the minute, twenty feet in height.
People by the dozen came and asked when it would go off.  I said, "Liable to go any minute;
it is long past due now." An up off'n your knees.'de white folks what owned cliffs thought that when
dey go to Heaven delaware collored folk's would be git to wait on dar. Same ef'n it was em
Yank been come'long, he say too,'what you prayin''bout?'you gives De
a'sponse. I git ye to Heaven.  A photographer set up his camera to
catch a shadow of the great display. He stood, sometimes air-bulb in hand, an hour or two,
then folded his camera tent and stole away.  Five hours had passed and night was near. Everybody
was gone.  I lay down on the ground to convince myself that I was perfectly patient.  I attained
so nearly to Nirvana that a little ground squirrel came and ran over me, kissing my hand in
a most friendly way.

Six hours of waiting were nearly over when, without a single previous hint of change, one descending
spout was met by an ascending one, and a vast column of hissing water rose, with a sound of
continuous thunder, one hundred feet in air; and stood there like a pillar of cloud in the
desert.  The air throbbed as in a cannonade, and the sun brushed away all clouds as if he could
not bear to miss a sight he had seen perhaps a million times.  Then the top of this upward
Niagara bent over like the calyx of a calla, and the downward Niagara covered all that elevated
masonry with a rushing cascade.  Shifting my position a little, I could see that the sun was
thrilling the whole glorious outpour with rainbows.  At such times one can neither measure
nor express emotions by words.  In the thunder which anyone can hear there is always, for all
who can receive it, the ineffably sweet voice of the Father saying, "Thou art my beloved son,
and all this grand display is for thy precious sake."

