"Well, dear," said Mr. Rayne, rising, "You won't blame me for the consequences, when you really
want my opinion I'll give it to you, I'll try to show you fairly and honestly both sides of
the picture of life, I would like to see you stand by its colossal works of art, you may perhaps
care to imitate the artists. All that is great and good within my reach, you will see, and
yet, I think it wise that you should turn from the luxury of wealth and self-indulgence now
and then, to look unshrinkingly upon the squalid misery and wantonness that haunt the greater
half of the world. But, come, we will go inside, the air is somewhat chilly, and if Nanette
intends to wake at all, she must be looking for us now."

Leaning on the arm of her guardian, Honor slowly walked towards the door of the entrance, followed
by many an admiring glance from the other passengers. They found Nanette rubbing her tell-tale
eyes, and avowing that she had not "slept a wink" all day.

       *       *       *       *       *

Under the roof of Henry Rayne's comfortable house everything has undergone a change, there
is a primness and a fitness about the rooms that used not to be there, a cosy look peeps out
from every turn and corner of the well-furnished apartments. The pantry shelves are whole rows
of temptations. Very tame lions looking meekly out with their "jelly" eyes, and rare birds
perched in trembling dignity on some pudding that has come "beautifully" out of the mould.
In fact it seems that good Mrs. Potts has converted her whole "receipt book" into shelves of
substantial and dainty representatives, but such fruitful contemplations as these will surely
rouse one to action, and appropriate "action" in a well-filled pantry forebodes merciless slaughter
for these culinary imitations of animal life.

Upstairs appeals less dangerously to the material element. It is neat and enticing everywhere.
There is the sitting room where Mr. Rayne spent his long, thoughtful night under the gaslight
with Robert Edgeworth's letter lying between his numbed fingers. The fire burns there cheerfully
now--there is no other light than that cast by the fitful flames which leap and dwindle in
shadows through the twilight that lingers still, huge fanciful phantoms skipping over the walls
and the ceiling and floor, a little flickering subdued light that trembles on the great arm
chairs. "Flo" is curled up, with both ends saluting one another, on the velvet rug before the
fender, and at a civil distance away is a purring bundle of gray and white pussy, with her
paws doubled in and her eyes blinking at the half-burned coals. There is a bird cage in each
window, and an odd little lullaby chirp or the grating of the little iron swings is the only
sound besides the loosening and falling of the embers every now and then.

Opposite to this is the large drawing room with its deep bay window, its rich carpet and massive
furnishings. Not the stiff formal looking parlor of a lone bachelor, but the comfortable, tastily
arranged room of a man who had confided such things to the better judgment and defter hands
of a woman. There are fine statues and splendid paintings, and bric-a-brac enough to deceive
anyone into believing it to be the home of a bevy of girls. There is a grand piano in the end
of the room, and a violin in its case in the corner--this latter had been the faithful companion
of Henry Rayne through many years of his life, and held as conspicuous a place in his drawing
room as it did in his esteem. Upstairs again, we find the strangest little room of all. A girl's
bedroom, richly, handsomely furnished, a heavy carpet of dark colored pattern covers the floor,
a massive walnut set is also there, a cosy lounge is crossways in the corner, near the bay
window, which is a perfect little conservatory of blooming flowers. A handsome pair of brackets
adorn the tinted walls, holding on one side a fine statue of the "Blessed Virgin and Child,"
and on the other that of a "Guardian Angel." Hanging opposite the bed is an oil painting of
"Mater Dolorosa," besides sundry little chromos and photographs that destroy the monotony of
bare walls. There is nothing left to wish for--beauty, utility, grandeur have been harmoniously
blended here, and this is the nook that Henry Rayne offers Honor Edgeworth, one worthy of a
princess, indeed. Mrs. Potts had promised herself that nothing should be left undone on the
arrival of the travellers, and very well she kept her word too. When the violent ring of the
bell that announced their coming echoed through the house, Mrs. Potts had only to roll down
the sleeves of her best wincey and button them at her wrists. The clattering slippers had been
superannuated, and a neat pair of prunella gaiters showed their patent toes from under the
hem of her cleanest gown. A broad grin of unmistakeable joy lights up the old creature's face
as she hastens to welcome her master, and this changes to a solemn look of profound admiration
as Henry Rayne presents her to Honor Edgeworth, and asks her to show the young lady to her room.

"You must make yourself at home, Honor, for the present, with things as they are. After a while
we can make things more comfortable, may be, but this is my little home as it was intended
for the last days of an old bachelor, to be spent all by himself," and as he spoke, Henry laughed
out right, and beckoned her to follow Mrs. Potts.

When Honor stood upon the rich red rug at the threshold of her door, she uttered a low exclamation
of wonder.

"This can't be for me, Mrs. Potts" she said, folding her hands and looking in dismay around her.

"Indeed it is, miss, and not a bit too good is it aither, for yer jewel ov a face to smile
on. Och, shure it'll be doin' me old eyes good from this out to be lookin' at yer purty face.
But come now, miss, you must be bate out entirely wid the joultin 'o the cars. Let me onfasten
them things for ye."

Mrs. Potts was quite at home with the "dear young lady" all at once. As she helped to undo
the girl's wrappings she grew less shy and reserved, and prattled on, "Shure it'll be the life
o' the master altogether, to have ye around the big house that was allays so lonesome like
for the wont ov a lady like yerself is, to cheer it up."

"I hope I may do that," said Honor earnestly, "for Mr. Rayne deserves all the comfort it is
in our power to give him."

"Oh, troth! yer right there, missy, an' its only half what he desarves the whole of us together
could give him, but shure, if we give him all we're able, an' our good intinshions along wid
that, he won't be the man to grumble at that same."

Honor began to understand the character of this old servant immediately. She recognized all
those traits that invariably betray the Irish nationality. Such whole-souled creatures are
of too universal a type ever to be mistaken.

"Well, then, ye'r ready now, miss, are you?" Mrs. Potts queried when all was over. "Well, if
ye like, ye can go an' wait for the ould lady, for she's not fixed up yet, an' I'll jist run
and throw an eye over the table, ye know, I'm Jack of all thrades for a while."

"Go, my good woman, by all means," Honor answered, "we will be down directly; don't wait for us."

Potts, who rather suspected an odor of over-done victuals, bounded down to the kitchen, leaving
Honor in Nanette's care. Nanette's room was next to Honor's, and had been used as a sort of
spare room up to the present time. It was now intensely comfortable and neat, without anything
costly or expensive which could make poor Nanette feel out of her element.

"Is Mr. Rayne not the very impersonation of goodness itself, Nanny dear?" said Honor. She was
standing with her back to the door, watching her old nurse undoing their valises, when she
uttered this exclamation.

"Come now, Honor, spare a fellow when he's right behind you," said the good-natured voice of
the person thus eulogized. Honor started around, looking very pretty in her confusion.

"I thought 'listeners never heard well of themselves,'" said she in a pout, "but this time
it seems to be reversed."

"And you won't take it back for all that," said he, "the oldest of us likes a little praise
now and then, you may as well let me keep it."

"Oh yes indeed, Mr. Rayne, you may have that little bit, for you know how good you are and
how kind to me."

"Well, that will do after tea, but just now we will give our attention to something more substantial;
come Honor--come Nanette."

"Don't wait for me sir," the old nurse answered respectfully, "I'll find Mrs. Potts in the
kitchen and we'll sip our tea together there."

Henry Rayne looked quickly at Honor and detected the slightest shadow of a disappointment flitting
across her face, this decided him.

"It is my intention that you and Potts will not be quite such good friends," he said, "I am
sure that Honor would rather you made the tea at our table."

"Don't appeal to me," Honor answered as she met his enquiring glance, "it is superfluous, you
always anticipate my wishes. I've never drunk another cup but the tea Nanette made."

"Nor shall you, so long as we are spared a happy trinity," cried Henry Rayne, "so let's be
off, I cry--to tea--to tea--to tea."

CHAPTER III. Honor no longer felt any timidity or reserve before Mr. Rayne, his advanced years
commanded a confidence and trust that she would have otherwise perhaps been slow to give, and
the unlimited generosity he betrayed in even anticipating her every wish, gave her no opportunity
to feel that she was under the patronage of a perfect stranger. He had shown himself as a kind,
indulgent father from the first, and was as solicitous about her as though she had been his
very own, or that he had been accustomed to administer to the wants and wishes of a young unripened
girl all his life. But this is no mystery to the interpreter of the human heart. Henry Rayne
could hardly act otherwise to any lone helpless creature without sacrificing the impulses of
his own generous, noble soul, and trampling upon the desire that continually influenced him
towards being the direct cause of happiness and comfort to others. Taking away any supernatural
motive that might lead him to such generous action, yet leaves the deed a worthy one, and the
heart a Christian one, for, to gratify others was to gratify himself, and this alone is characteristic
of a great soul. As the orphan child of a friend of his youth, I doubt not that Henry Rayne
would protect her at his life's peril. We all know what a firm knot it is that binds the sympathetic
souls of rollicking college "chums" which, tied once, is tied forever. It has always been so;
it is one of those strictly conservative principles that grows with mankind in every generation,
and is yet never found extravagant, if not because of the noble character of the sentiment
itself, at least because our forefathers never condemned it, and the world generally continues
to favor such an alliance. Such was the nature of the staunch friendship that existed between
Henry Rayne and Bob Edgeworth, a friendship that had only strengthened itself by pledges and
vows, as the youths shook hands in a fond farewell over the threshold of their college home.

From the day on which Honor Edgeworth settled in her new home, life began to assume its most
indulgent phase. Everything around her met her eye for the first time, no sorrowful associations
hung in misty veils over anything that entered into the charms of her new life. Nanette was
the only breathing, living testimony of the years that had gone, and the home of her childhood
that she had left forever. A few old books of literature and of music, a few little trifling
souvenirs from her dead mother's jewel box, an inlaid mahogony writing-desk and a miniature
likeness of her proud handsome father, were all the visible reminders she now held of the fair,
sunny home, under the far foreign skies.

Mr Rayne resumed his duties immediately on his return, and lost no time in propagating among
his most intimate and influential friends, the story of the odd legacy left him by a "distant
relation." At first Mr. Rayne feared greatly that Honor would find the days long and tedious,
while he was absent and unable to ferret out distraction for her, but he grew resigned very
soon when she assured him how much more to her taste it was to have the quiet hours of the
day to herself, and "in fact," she said, "as the occasion presented itself, she would beg of
Mr. Rayne not to expect her to share in any amusement, at least for some time, for besides
the mourning she wore for her father, her knowledge of the country and its customs was not
yet sufficient to satisfy her with herself," and putting it to him as a request, she knew it
would be acceded to on the spot.

The light of the summer days had begun to wane. The leaves had begun to turn. Out door pleasures
were being forsaken for the seat by the fireside The world looked as if 'twere waiting. The
autumn months had a particular effect on Honor Edgeworth, she would stand at the window, and
look sadly through the panes at the red and yellow leaves falling softly, noiselessly down
to the cold wet ground, and a shiver would pass through her as she realized even in this the
mortality that hangs like an unseen pall over all things below. Just a moment ago, a pretty
golden leaf danced on the bough, but the cold wind, surrounding it, bore it away on its fated
pinions down into the cold stiff gutter, where it was either trampled heedlessly down by the
reckless passer-by, or wafted farther away out of sight, left to wither and die by the roadside.
But, perhaps not, either, maybe the slender, delicate hand of an admirer of nature stooped
to gather the fallen leaf, to wipe the dust from its golden front, and lay it tenderly by as
a souvenir of the dead year, to lie among the gathered blossoms of some dear one's grave, with
bitter tears of sad remembrance and grief to bathe it, as its evening dew. And is not this
life! How many golden leaves are hurled into the mire of sin, and upon how much marvellous
beauty the heavy foot of worldly scorn is stamped forever! How many pretty little amber leaves
drift on through the cold wide world, until their beauty is spent, and until wrecked and faded
they lay themselves down by the withered blades to die. But oh! there are again those stainless
leaves that glide into the fingers of the Great Gatherer of Beauty, to find in His compassion
and His mercy a refuge from the coldest blasts. The pity is that these last are, like the leaves
of the Autumn trees, the scarcest in number; or, after all is the happy life of one summer
month, price enough for a "forever" of withered beauty and faded grace?

Poor Honor turned away with a heavy sigh; she could not learn a cheerful lesson from nature's
gigantic book, she had stood by the window for nearly an hour in silent communion with the
dumb eloquent world: there was a strange empty feeling in her heart, that she longed to stifle,
somehow her reverie had made her feel a little lonesome, for whom she knew not. She was now
tasting a little of Life's bitter sweet, and like every other girl of eighteen, was madly wishing
for the denouement to come. Poor foolish eighteen! Why will you extract from Destiny the pain
that will be yours soon enough: not contented to be free, unfettered, and all your own? You
want a sad change, you make an unwise bargain. Do not envy the future its darkness, nor the
"to be" its mystery, it is painful enough that in time your poor weary eyes must weep salt
bitter tears as they view the unravelling of each. The love that you long for to-day is coming
to you, slowly but surely, out of the iron heart of Destiny, but beware! Were it not for Love
there would be no hatred, were it not for Fidelity there would be no deception, were it not
for Happiness there would be no misery. "'Tis Heaven to love," as love-sick poets have sung.
But 'tis Hell to love as well, as love duped wretches have wailed......

Turning from the window, Honor Edgeworth sighed as deep a sigh as if a pain had dwelt within
her heart--she was telling herself that she must wait and hope, hope and realize, and so when
it did not come to-day, she only sighed again as she laid her weary head upon its pillow, and
whispered "To-morrow." When she turned towards the firelight to shut out the cheerless vision
of the dreary world from her tired eyes, she started to notice how quickly the shadows had
crept over the room. She could see them chasing one another by the quivering light of the grate,
and as the silent voices of the gloaming whispered to her heart, her eyes lit up with an unusual
brightness and her lips broke apart in a slow dreamy smile. It was nearly six by the marble
clock on the mantel, Mr. Rayne would be home in another little while, and with this thought
she turned languidly to the etagere in the corner, in her search for distraction, and drew
from a shelf a small volume which attracted her eye. She then poked a large black coal until
it sent a bright lurid flame up the chimney, and filled the room with a cheerful light: slowly,
almost tastelessly, she proceeded to turn the pages over, scanning here and there a line or
two; at length, smiling, she said to herself, "I used to know these verses long ago. I wonder
if I have forgotten them."

She stood up as she spoke, and glancing at the first word, folded her hands behind her back
still holding the volume, with one finger inserted on this particular part. She leaned one
shoulder gently against the mantel-corner and looked into the fire. Why did she not look towards
the window? A moment before, the garden gate had closed noiselessly behind the tall, well-built
figure of a man, who before entering the house, had turned to look aimlessly in at the large
square window from which was reflected the warm light of the grate. But how soon his eyes became
riveted to the spot standing in front of the fire was the fairest creature he had ever looked
on before, the fitful flames were casting their light upon her handsome face, her eyes looked
almost wild to-night in their sadness, and her cheeks had an unusual glow. Standing with her
hands behind her back, she showed to advantage the perfect contour of her figure, and while
he feasted his eyes on her physical loveliness he caught a little word in a sweet sad voice,
that recalled lines he was fond of repeating himself; he strained every nerve to catch the
tones within. Knowing the verses himself enabled him to understand her readily as she quoted--

  "I have said my life is a beautiful thing,"
  "I will crown me with its flowers;
  I will sing of its glory all day long,
  For my harp is young and sweet and strong,
  And the passionate power within my song
  Shall thrill all the golden hours;
  And over the sand and over the stone
  Forever and ever the waves rolled on."

She paused a moment, and puckering her brow slightly as if in an effort to remember, she continued,

  "For under the sky there is not for me,
  A kindred soul or sympathy,
  Must I stand alone in Life's busy crowd
  A living heart in a death-like shroud,
  And the voice of my wailing o'er sand and stone,
  Must it die on the waves as they e'er roll on."

"That verse is her own," said the still watcher at the window.

The girl's voice faded to a sigh, she drew her hands apart and opened the book again, the face
outside pressed more eagerly still against the cold pane.

"Why!" she suddenly exclaimed, "the words are all marked in pencil! underlined, just where
I have been accustomed to emphasize them, does Mr. Rayne?--Oh impossible.--Whose can it be?"
She turned impatiently to the fly-leaf and there in a clear masculine hand she saw, "G. E.
from the only true friend and bitter enemy he has in the world--himself."

The book fell from her fingers. She looked earnestly into the fire, and a sad expression stole
over her face.

"G. E.! Who was G. E.? Who was it that seemed to sympathise with her already? Who else in the
world considered one's self a friend and an enemy, except herself?" She was beginning to long
for him, to feel a loneliness for this kindred soul, as if he had come into her life and then
had gone suddenly out of it again, leaving her in a melancholy despair. And as she sat there,
lost in a long, tangled reverie, the eager face vanished from the window, for another figure
strode up the little avenue, and quietly opening the door, passed in. Then the tall young stranger
emerged from his hiding place, and noiselessly went out through the rustic gateway, trampling
beneath his feet, the fallen leaves, over whose inevitable fate, Honor had spent so many sighs;
but his heart was beating quickly, and his face was aglow with a new-lit flame. A strange transformation
had apparently settled over all his surroundings. The moon was mounting over the house-tops
and shedding a pale, soft light on his way. The world looked fairer and brighter far, than
it did a little while ago.

And then his heart burst out its passionate "No." He had not recognized those responsive emotions
in that lovely girl to forget them so soon again, he had been searching for them too long not
to prize them now. He had thought he was anchoring at despair, and now that a star broke through
the clouded heavens, beckoning him on, was he mad to scorn the hope that lay within his grasp?
No, indeed, and that very night, under the immediate impulse of his new-born emotions, Guy
Elersley made up his mind.

We cannot be surprised at this sudden change in Guy, although it was the most unexpected and
unlooked for circumstance that could possibly have come to him. Falling in and out of love
is almost so certain a portion of our destiny, that we should never be surprised by it. We
know of love as we do of death, that it is to come some day, if not now, by and by. We wait
for it without expecting it, we recognize the symptoms that foretell its approach, but of its
real bearing on our future lives, we can tell nothing. Time alone, as it unravels the strange
mysteries, shows us in what way our love can prove a blessing or a curse. If we were so constituted,
in general, as to make up our minds coolly and calculatingly, to fall in love sensibly, but
no, with most of us, a look, a word, a pressure of the hand, a sigh, a flower or some such
trifling thing, has sufficed to plunge us hoplessly into the delirium of "love." Dreamy eyes
that fascinate us, pretty words that gratify us, little signs of preference, have been the
prices of human hearts from time immemorial. The pity is, that love so often dies of its own
excess, making the dreamy eyes fiery with anger and hatred, turning the pretty words into violent
reproaches, and substituting the deeds of preference by coldness and neglect. 'Tis better to
have hated all our lives, than to learn the lesson from a blighted love. Life is never bitter,
but for those whose misplaced love has caused their faith in men to wither, filling their hearts
with that hopelessness of regret, by which misery is recognised in any of its disguises. But
these are inconsistent reflections, when proceeding from such suggestive sources as "first
love," "moonlight quietude," etc. Let us draw a veil across them for the present. If there
must be bitter drops in the deep chalice, let us not spoil the taste of the sweeter ones, by
anticipating the loathsomeness of the rest. In another sense we may cry "let us live to-day,
for to-morrow we die."

CHAPTER IV.

The morning following Guy's visit to his uncle's window panes, as Henry Rayne was sipping his
rich brown chocolate, with Honor and Nanette, at breakfast, Fitts brought in a note and laid
it before his master. The usual broad smile came over Rayne's face, as he recognized his nephew's
handwriting.

"So he's in town," he soliloquized, as he opened the folds of the crisp paper and read:

    "Dear Uncle,
    I came to town last evening, and wish to see you when you
    will be quite alone.
    Guy."

"There's an ansur wanted, sur," Fitts said timidly.

"Oh, say this afternoon at five, Fitts, that will do."

Evidently, it was not Mr. Rayne's intention to mention the existence of his nephew yet, to
his new comers, for he quietly slipped the little note into his pocket and said no more of
it. The day wore on, and at five o'clock Fitts brought around the "ponies" to take "Miss Honor"
for a drive. They had scarcely gone a block away, before Guy Elersley opened the gate leading
up to his uncle's house, and admitted himself. He went into the sitting-room, but it was empty,
that is, his uncle was not there, or any other living intruder; but there arose between him
and the gloomy coals, the same sweet face and graceful figure that had kept a ceaseless vigil
over his slumber last night. The same sad voice filled the room with its wailing echo, and
as he listened again to its appealing pathos, he strode idly towards the little etagere and
took up his little volume from which he had seen her read. A strong impulse rose within him.
He imagined himself under the same spell as the romantic hero of "Led Astray," and taking out
his pencil, he traced at the bottom of the page, under the words she had recited, this little
verse:

  "There is another life I long to meet,
  Without which life my life is incomplete.
  Oh sweeter self! like me, thou art astray,
  Trying with all thy heart to find the way
  To mine. Straying, like mine, to find the breast,
  On which alone can weary heart find rest."

He had scarcely closed and replaced the book, when the door opened and his uncle bustled in.

"Hallo, Guy! dear old boy, welcome! welcome!" and Henry Rayne extended both hands to his nephew
as he spoke. "And so here you are in Ottawa, eh? What's the trouble now?" and before seating
himself to chat, Henry Rayne poked the fire into a roaring blaze.

"No trouble this time, uncle, at least no 'yellow envelopes' trouble, but I've been promised
an appointment in the Civil Service, and I've come to you for the 'slap on the back' that makes
a fellow stiff when he's in there. Now you know it's all right for a petty clerk in those solemn
Parliament Buildings, when he has an uncle that is precious to the government, for the thousands
he owns and that he can scarce count. This is why I ask you to come forward, for your assistance
is all I want, to make a neat little job of the whole thing. Just snap your fingers over my
head, and none will dare oppose me. It is not the career I had planned, you know, uncle, but
'half a loaf is better than a whole loafer,' and that is what I threatened to be, if I remained
a student in Montreal any longer. The boys are too jolly there in proportion to their means,
and I pride myself I escaped in time. I'd just as soon live on the bounty of the people for
a while, and eat my lunch perched on an office stool, with plenty of good ice water at hand,
and a chance of a cosy 'smoke' now and then, if I don't burn out my pockets hiding the pipe
when the dignified 'Boss' approaches."

"Well, well, well, Guy, you are a reckless boy, you know I could have secured you a position
in the Civil Service long ago, but you aimed still higher and--missed the mark. I thought you
had chosen a profession exacting too much labor for a lover of self-indulgence such as you
are; however, I suppose you don't want me to say a single word of rebuke now, and I have grown
so accustomed to spoiling you, that I must only give in. You can make yourself easy as far
as I am concerned, I will make matters all right."

"You're the best old uncle that ever had a sister married to the father of a fellow like me,"
Guy said, shaking the hand of his benefactor warmly, "and by and by, when I'm a clever cabinet
minister, I'll show you what gratitude is."

"I am afraid such a 'by and by' as that is as far in the past as it is in the future," Henry
Rayne said, laughing.

"Oh well, if I am not clever enough to be a solemn minister, they'll make a Lieutenant-Governor
of me, or a Judge, Lieutenant-Governor Elersley! By Jove the name was intended to be worn with
a title!"

"Well, when you're done all these nonsensical licenses, you are giving your common sense, I
will tell you something nice," Mr. Rayne interrupted, as Guy rattled off his idle chat. In
a moment Guy's limbs that had been lying carelessly around in the vicinity of his chair, were
jerked into a respectable sitting posture, as leaning his face eagerly towards his uncle he asked:

"Something to tell me? Now that is a surprise; I generally do all the talking when I come here."

"Well," Henry Rayne began slowly, and with a look of unusual merriment twinkling in his eyes,
"It has taken a long time you see for this surprise to come, but it was worth the trouble of
waiting. May be you think that at fifty years all the romance has died out of a man's life,
but I am going to show you that such is not the case." (Great Heavens! Guy thought, has the
dear old man fallen in love?) "A new life has begun of late for me; henceforth, my love, that
has been all yours, must be divided I have assumed a series of new and trying duties--"

"Pardon me, uncle; but you don't mean--you can't possibly be insinuating that you have--have--have
done such a desperate thing as to--"

"I have indeed, Guy. I suppose you thought I had no soft corner left in my heart that would
be a ready victim to a woman's wiles? but I had, you see." There was a mischevious twinkle
in the old man's eye as he spoke. This joke on his clever nephew amused him immensely, while
poor Guy was feeling the tight clutch of despair upon his heart Of all the horrors conceivable,
Guy had never dreamt of such a thing as his uncle's marriage, and now it was quite evident
that his words implied this terrible catastrophe. He saw the long cherished project of his
insured welfare passing away so noiselessly from him, dropping through a wedding ring into
the clutching fingers of a new-born heir. And when it struck him that the beautiful vision
he had feasted his eyes upon last evening was, undoubtedly, the fair destroyer of his every
hope, a conflict of violent feelings began to gnaw at his poor heart, making a genuine picture
of woeful misery out of the laughing face of a moment before, but he battled against his moral
foes, at least--he must not show his uncle that any selfishness of his could mar the sincerity
of his felicitations.

"I suppose I am justified in congratulating you?" Guy said in a tone something like that in
which one says "'Tis nothing," when three hundred pounds of fashionable humanity apologises
for having left its foot print on our toes.

"I know that you do congratulate me warmly," Guy's uncle said, emphatically, "and indeed it
is as much for your sake, nearly, as for my own that I rejoice, the benefit will be divided
between us." Guy didn't see how--unless his uncle fell into the ordinary routine of wedded
life, and grew regretful by degrees--he could share those sentiments very plentifully, but
his better nature still revolted against such selfishness, and obeying a generous impulse,
he stood up and shook his uncle warmly by the hand.

"I am glad indeed, uncle," he said sincerely, "that at last your earthly happiness is complete.
It was poor gratification to you, to trust to me for an ample return for all your unmerited
kindness. You deserved some one more faithful and more demonstrative than I. This new tie you
have formed will, of course, exclude me from a great portion if not from all of your heart,
but, at least, I can still continue to appreciate and love you as though there had been no
change. After all, it is the most natural thing in the world for a man to marry."

"Who's married?" Henry Rayne exclaimed in astonishment.

"Why, yourself, to be sure," Guy answered, "I was alluding to you."

Henry Rayne threw back his curly head and laughed heartily and loud; Guy looked on in open-mouthed
astonishment, suspecting a temporary aberration of mind in his uncle.

"Oh! that is a splendid one," Mr. Rayne cried slapping his knees violently, and blinking away
the tears that were gathering in his eyes from excessive laughter. "You had just better circulate
such a piece of slander about me, and see how it would be received, why, the dogs on the road
would laugh at your simple credulity." Then assuming a becoming air of mock gravity the old
man continued, "This is terrible, Guy, that you should openly accuse me of such a serious piece
of forgetfulness is, I fear, more than I can readily forgive--I dare say I do a great many
surprising things now and then--but to get married--Oh no, Guy, you wrong me--wrong me terribly."

Guy had to laugh at this, though still lost in the mystery.

"Perhaps now that you have laughed quite enough at rue, you will kindly explain all," he said
in an anxious tone.

"Well, the truth is, Guy," his uncle began in earnest, "there is a woman at the bottom of it,
of course, and though I have pledged myself at the altar of friendship to love and protect
her, there is no such thing as 'till death do us part' in the transaction. I have been left
the odd legacy of an only daughter by an old school-friend of mine," Guy blushed inwardly,
and felt guilty, "she is a dear, lovely little creature, and will, I am sure, make my home
a different one altogether, from what solitary bachelordom has brought it to. I hope you will
agree, both of you, I know you will like her just as soon as you see her, you have no idea
how lovely she is." (Oh fie! Elersley! how innocent you look).

"Well, really uncle, you are a little more demonstrative over female superiority than I would
expect," Guy said lazily, as if he had made up his mind that he would not be so enthusiastic.

"Because she deserves it," Mr. Rayne said, earnestly. "Don't think, my boy," he continued,
"that I am a perfect old ogre with regard to women, for I am not, I have travelled over and
seen more of the world than you, and I know the difference, vast and mysterious as it is, that
lies between woman and woman. The word, has, of all words, two meanings, the most antithetical
and contradictory, one is the limit of the Beautiful, the other the limit of the Repulsive;
one is synonymous with purity, truth and excellence, and the other with vice and diplomacy.
The world is often imposed upon when the latter counterfeits the former. Men are dazzled by
the glitter and gaudy show of the pretended, and pass by, unnoticed, the less flashy attractions
of the real, but I pride myself that I have never been deceived in this way. The girl that
I have brought to my home is as genuine a sample of noble, good, pure and honorable women,
as could exist, if you had known her father I would tell you, she is Bob Edgeworth's child
and you could not then doubt the truth of all I say."

"Edgeworth?" Guy queried, "It seems to me I have heard that name before."

"It was you who revived all my precious memories of him," Henry Rayne said thoughtfully. "That
letter you wrote me before leaving Montreal, telling me of an interview you had with a traveller
who had seen Edgeworth defend me so bravely and gallantly abroad, was the first I had heard
of my dear old friend for many many years."

"Oh yes, I remember now!" Guy exclaimed, "but how in the world did he trace you up after all
these years?"

"That was easy enough, I am happy to say. I am pretty well known now, and Edgeworth took the
most direct way to me, by applying to our family solicitors at home, but I blame him for not
having sought me while he had his health and strength--he is dead now, poor fellow, and all
he had prized in this world he has left to me. When I wrote you, that important business called
me to Europe, I was starting to execute the first part of my friend's dying request. I did
not talk about it much beforehand, but now that we are safely back, the whole world is free
to know that I am in charge of the sweetest girl under the sun, let who can, deny it, if you
are as anxious to meet her as I was, stay and drink tea with us this evening--they are out
driving now, but they wont be much longer--do stay."

"Not this evening," Guy said hastily, as he rose, "I am not prepared, uncle, besides, she is
strange yet, and it is as well not to thrust too many new faces on her at once, you can mention
my name to her if you will, she will feel more at home when we meet." There was a pause of
a moment, and then Guy, as he appropriated a cigar from a china stand that tempted him close
by, resumed, "this certainly is a strange, unlooked- for incident in your hum-drum life, but
it is also a very fortunate one, since she is such a comfort to you and such an acquisition
to your home--I fancy, from your description she could scarcely be otherwise. I hope we will
all be an agreeable and sociable family yet, and now, if I don't want to be caught, I had better
be off at once," saying which, Henry Rayne's handsome nephew shook himself out of comfort's
wrinkles, lighted his cheroot, put on his becoming hat, bade his uncle a temporary "good bye,"
and departed.

I would undertake too common-place a theme, were I to try and interpret the feelings that struggled
for ascendancy in the breast of Guy Elersley. How many pens have been stowed away rusty and
old from having told no other tale than that of new-born love? How many gray-haired bards have
tuned their lay to the sighs from the human breast under the "first loves" influence? How many
eyes, even among those that rest upon this very page, have wept the overflowing of their hearts
away, at the moment that love's first whispers stole into their souls? How many tired and weary
hands are folded on the laps of those who are sitting in the twilight of their years dreaming
all over again in bitter joy their "Loves young dream?" Ah! they are many indeed! and so it
is superfluous almost to tell the world what it is to love for the first time. That trembling
existence that is balancing on Hope and Despair, is an experience so well learned that no one
thinks of telling it. It is a strange part of destiny, that even those who have never heard
what it is to love, are not surprised when called to teach it to themselves. Instinctively,
we hide our emotion, we steady our hand, we check our words. There is the pity; there are grand
unspoken thoughts, burning in the souls of many to-day, that may never reach the threshold
of the lips. Men are gliding through the world disinterestedly, day by day, and they know not,
often care not to know, that there are devoted hearts existing on their memories alone. There
are pretty blue eyes weeping over the "garden gate" where "some one" is "waiting" and "wishing
in vain." Let them weep. There are miseries in life, that can be learned only by many repetitions.
If they don't break the heart at first they perseveringly "try again."

If my belief be not a popular one, I hardly like to be the first to preach it, but it seems
to me that few can study society as it is to-day, without concluding very disagreable things;
one of these is the deplorable fact that, in our day, the purest selfishness seems to have
established itself as the source and promoter of, not only the indifferent, but the apparently
best impulses of the human heart. It is a pity indeed, that our analysing tendency has been
so strengthened by cultivation, for most often, by prying into the very remotest origin and
causes of things we learn a lesson that for ourselves or the world would have been infinitely
better unlearned. Hence it is trait in our own day we are not satisfied that certain lavish
displays of generosity pass for Christian charity, simply, and without more ado. We will not
look upon the givers, with an admiring eye, and spend our enthusiasm, on a religion which teaches
the love of our neighbor so effectively, oh no! we must "open the drum to find where the noise
is kept," and how, unfortunately, often, do we find, that practical virtues, or at least, what
are so called by the world, have nothing more solid at base than the hollow drum. It sounds
deplorable, to say that nineteenth century charity is a Dead Sea apple, even the guilty ones
will not like to hear that they have subscribed to this fund, or built that asylum, through
policy, or as an advertisement, or for the less harmful but still unworthy reason that they
like to give something, when there is plenty around them. Nevertheless, is it not true that
in all countries, in our own little city, there are men, who drive the starving beggar from
their doors, and who yet head a public charity list handsomely. There are people, who, under
their parson's eye, wear down-cast look and thump their breasts, but, who behind his back,
would much sooner thump any one else's breast, or cast down any other person's eyes. There
are members of high society, who feel it their duty to set good example for their social inferiors,
and so they feast and dance and gratify themselves all through the hours of the night, and
then in half spoiled frizzes and sleepy looks repair to church in the early morning. This may
all be right enough, but if so, there is more than one version of right and wrong, and that
is impossible. This omnipotent selfishness has even crept into our loves. Men kiss the dainty
finger tips of their lady-loves, to-day, with a passionate fondness that is proportionate to
the bulk of lucre that dainty hand can hold. The words "be mine" so sweetly answered by fair
trusting damsels, are addressed to them, because estates and dowries cannot speak of themselves,
and must consequently be wooed and won by proxy. The divine institution as marriage was wont
to be considered, is better understood in our day as a "linking transaction", a "speculation
in the matrimonial market," or for the man alone, he is either "spliced" or "fleeced."

At least our century has succeeded in one thing: it is the grandest parody on all that is lofty,
or elevated or holy, it is an unparalleled burlesque on any exalted sentiment or practical
good. Every ennobling tendency, every redeeming trait is cunningly caricatured, and so cleverly
ridiculed that is impossible to respect them afterwards. It is hard to tell what another era
may bring forth of good, but it is certain that ours has killed, to the very possibility of
a future regeneration, every germ and atom of solid morality, that sustained it. Perhaps that
is what was wanted, the end may be achieved now. It has been clearly and undeniably proved
to the world, that there is no longer any God, there is no eternity, no atonement, no recompense.
We are left to wonder whose business it was to call some of us into this miserable existence,
to take us out of it again before we have culled any real happiness, and send us back to--Well,
we are not allowed to say where, because there is some inconsistency mixed up with it, but
we are sure to go there at all events.

This may seem a most exaggerated deviation from the smooth course of the narrative, but in
reality it is not so. The little reflections made may serve to remind the reader, that those
great universal movements, social, political and religious, floating as they are at random
in the atmosphere, cannot fail, when breathed by our youth to develop into substance with their
growth, and to manifest their poisonous influences later, in the lives of their wretched victims.
After pondering over such reminders for a moment or more, there will be no call for surprise,
when our young men are pictured in their true colors. The mind need not hesitate to enquire,
when it views youth and manhood, beautiful and blase, attractive and cynical, credulous to
simplicity in many things, and infidels in the one great act of faith that alone merits anything.

From the taint of this evil, and all its sorrowful consequences I am tempted to exempt Guy
Elersley, so handsome, so young, so winning; but I cannot give the lie to obstinate reality.
Of course, Guy Elersley was not a bad man, he was exactly what most young men of to-day are--what
you, my reader, know them to be, what all the world, but themselves, know them to be. Guy thought
he "wasn't such a bad sort of fellow at all," and yet in every movement of his, one could detect
him--the victim of the age. He had never professed any direct code of belief. He would have
been very much offended if any one called him an "atheist." He knew there was some reason why
a fellow should go to church now and then, and not be everlastingly doing mischief. He confided
to himself in strict secret that "to die" was about the very last thing he'd like to do; but,
somehow, such serious considerations as these never lingered long, a good cigar or "half-a-glass"
easily sufficing to turn the current of his thought into a more pleasant course. He had all
the "might-have-beens" in the collection of qualities that he possessed, to make any one sorry,
but as fast as a new trait developed itself in him, he put it to the worst possible advantage,
and made those who took an interest in him intensely sorry for his grave mistakes.

He had early fallen in with the tide, and learned to love himself before and above all else.

One hardly likes to say that this new born enthusiasm of his was a selfish gratification, and
yet in its radical sense it was thoroughly so. He delighted in it because of the benefit it
brought himself. He had long felt a void within his heart, a want or craving for something,
something indefinite, intangible certainly--something that no sensual indulgence could appease,
that no light pleasure could distract, and now all at once it seemed to him that long-felt
vacuum was filling up. A something, just as ethereal as his craving had been, was creeping
into his heart. It felt like the liquid music of a low, serious voice, or it may have been
a passion, such as he had seen in the depths of two large, sad, gray eyes, or it might have
been the soft soothing influence of a sweet, dreamy smile. It was just as abstract as any of
these, and yet just as fascinating and just as exquisite. This was Love for him, a beautiful
but a dreadful thing! feeding his hungry soul and quenching his heart's awful thirst, yet swaying
him with a merciless tyranny, for love caresses with one hand and smites with the other. If
it can be the exponent of certain delicate phases in our spiritual nature, it can also, alas!
almost smother the good it does by the pain it so cruelly inflicts. It has a double mission,
for in the cry of joy that escapes the lips under its influence there is an echo of pain and
despair, and hence it is that love is so violent a passion. If it were a pleasure only to love,
we could never prize the object of our wild affection as when it has cost us sighs and tears,
and anxiety untold.

It was thus Guy Elersley ruminated as he sauntered through the streets this sear October day,
whistling silently to himself, and knocking the clotted leaves recklessly from side to side
with his slender cane. He was persuading himself that at last his destiny was beginning to
accomplish itself. She would surely see the lines he had traced for her eye in the book he
had been reading, and if she were what he supposed her to be, they would be an eloquent appeal
in his behalf--but. Here the misery came in--

  "Love was never yet without
  The pang, the agony, the doubt."

What if she never reciprocated?--if there did not linger in her breast a single responsive
sigh? But he dared not ask. What then? Not until hope had quite faded away and left the bare,
truthful reality to confront him by itself.

CHAPTER V.

  "And then I met with one who was my fate, he saw
  me and I knew
  'Twas Love, like swift lightning darted through
  My spirit 'ere I thought, my heart was won--
  Spell-bound to his, forever and forever!"

In this interesting meanwhile, life was unfolding its strange mysteries just as unexpectedly
to Honor Edgeworth as to Guy Elersley. After she had returned from her pleasant drive, a half
hour after Guy's departure from his uncle's house, dinner was announced, immediately after
which Mr. Rayne had to excuse himself, having had an engagement "up town." Honor, left to her
own resources for distractions, repaired, as usual, to the sitting room, and seated herself
on the floor before the grate. Her eyes assumed their old hazy look, she clasped her hands
over her knees and looked vacantly into the fire. What a strange girl this was! So dreamy,
so pensive. She was reasoning with herself now as she often did, trying to feel thankful for
all the good things with which her life was blest, but though she acknowledged to herself that
youth and health, and comfort and kind friends were grand gifts of Providence, she could not
stifle the dissatisfaction that filled her as she yearned for "something else." She could not
say what it was, only she knew that she yearned for a gratification that is not found in any
of those things that she enjoyed so profusely.

Oh, that "something else!" Why do we not stop and gather it by the roadside we are passing
now? We will not find it farther on. That which is enticing us onward is only the illusionary
flicker of a will o'-the-wisp! We will stretch out our hands too late--when we have been caught
in its fatal snares, and then in the darkness and misery that will surround us, we will feel
how foolish we have been, and our cries of despair and distress will be echoed back to our
own ears in sounds of mockery and scorn. Let us not build upon that "something else" that is
always buried in the to-morrows, for we are losing the present and risking the future thereby.

Poor Honor, after thinking until her head sank wearily upon her shoulder, sighed and rose up,
pacing the room with her hands behind her back. As she passed by the little etagere she smiled
curiously, and stretching out her hand drew towards her Guy's book of poetic selections. As
she slid the pages through her delicate fingers, she murmured slowly--

  "I have said that my life is a terrible thing,
  All ruined and-"

She stopped suddenly, for her eyes had fallen on the pencil marks traced under these little
verses she was accustomed to recite--her heart gave a sudden bound--

  "Oh, sweeter self, like me art thou astray"

She quoted the words in bewilderment. What did it mean? There was no one in the house to write
such meaning words there! That pretty, legible penmanship did not correspond with anyone's
she had ever known--except-- where was it she had noticed something just the same? Suddenly
she remembered. On the fly-leaf of the book were words traced in the same hand. She turned
over the leaves and compared them. There was no doubting their identity. It was, then, G. E.
who had written this passionate little quotation. "G. E. How strange" she muttered. Was it
her "fairy prince" had come to visit her while she was away? She could not fathom it--some
hidden meaning lay stowed away under those pretty words. "They were not there when last I had
the book, of that I am sure," Honor said meditatively. "Some one has been in here since, and
that 'some one' sympathises with me, that 'some one,' I feel, is my long-sought ideal. Has
destiny changed its frown into a smile at last for this lone, eccentric girl, I wonder?" She
dropped her hands negligently, still clasping the mysterious volume, and looked wistfully into
the space before her. She was undergoing the change that comes over each of us as soon as we
yield our hearts to the strange influence that fascinates them. We have been told that "Love
is a great transformer," and if we had never heard it we would have found it out for ourselves.

Honor Edgeworth, sitting alone in the cosy enclosures of a cushioned fauteuil, thought out
the queer circumstance that had visited her to-night; never noticing how fast time flitted
by, never heeding the stillness of advancing night, until Mr. Rayne's late arrival roused her
from her reverie, and brought her suddenly back from the sunlight of her dreams to the grim
darkness of the reality. Kissing him a sleepy good- night, Honor left the room, henceforth
haunted by the spirits of her earliest conceptions of love, and went silently, almost gloomily,
up to her own handsome little room, bringing to her friendly pillow all the hazardous hopes
and fears, and interesting experiences of a love unborn but well conceived.

In the gray of the following morning, the angels of slumber on their upward flight must have
borne one another an interesting message, for Honor's guardian spirit had noted the happy smile
creeping over her face, as in her dreams she saw the noble hero of her waking reverie--and
Guy, as he tossed restlessly on his pillow, betrayed to his "silent watcher" a heart overflowing
with a new-born love for a creature to whom he had yet spoken no word. And how those angels
must have smiled, knowing, as they did, that 'ere another day had passed those two would have
met, to recognize in one another the destiny of each!

"It will soon be four o'clock," Honor said to herself on the afternoon of this same day, looking,
as she spoke, towards the delicately tinted window-sill. She had whiled away so many afternoons
in this little boudoir, or family sitting room, that she could tell by the progress of the
sun on the broad sill when to expect Mr. Rayne home from his office. "He will be here in half-an-hour,"
she soliloquized, then looking aimlessly around for distraction, Honor spied a half-knitted
stocking and a ponderous looking pair of gold-mounted spectacles lying carefully on a side
table. Smiling mischievously, she adjusted the glasses, very low down on her nose, for of course
she can see much better over than through them, and unwinding a yard or two of the wool, tucked
the ball professionally under her arm, and began slowly to penetrate the intricate mysteries
of "narrowing the gore." She had just seated herself in the great rocking chair, when a very
familiar sort of tap at the door caused her to look up. She thought to make a joke for Fitts,
and feigned "Nanette" accordingly--she dropped her head on her shoulder, slowly moving her
needles all the while--and with closed lids, and mouth half-way open, she considered the tableau
perfect. The knock was not repeated, but she knew that the door had been opened. For a few
seconds longer she remained in her interesting attitude, and then considering that Fitts was
rather slow to appreciate a joke, she opened her eyes, and was about to close her mouth, but
the exclamation of surprise that rose to her lips, kept it wide open for a second or two longer.
The blankest of blank stupid wonder looked out from her eyes over the old-fashioned, gold-rimmed
spectacles.

"I hope you won't think I am intruding," said the person at the door, "but being quite at home
in the house, and having received no answer when I announced myself, I thought I might admit
myself here as usual."

Honor detected an effort in the speaker's voice to refrain from laughing outright, and did
not feel too comfortable at the success of her joke.

"Did you--did you wish to see Mr. Rayne?" she stammered, dragging the unsightly spectacles
off her nose, and throwing them back on the table.

"I certainly expected he was here," the stranger answered mischievously, "but I had mistaken
you for him on coming suddenly in."

Honor felt mortified, while her companion evidently was very much amused. She looked at him
suddenly, her pretty face suffused with blushes, but on raising her eyes they met his in a
quick glance--the large, passionate gray and the deep, dreamy blue penetrated each other's
depths in an instant--only during one short breath, and then Honor's fell. She had been about
to speak, but the mischief in his look reminded her of the absurdity of this recontre, and
she could only turn aside, and show him by her shaking shoulders that she was forced to laugh.

At last the situation became too ridiculous, and Honor, between smothered fits of laughter, said,

"If you have made any appointment with Mr. Rayne, he will not detain you, I know. Be seated;
I will enquire if he has yet arrived"

"Do not trouble yourself," her companion answered. "My uncle, Mr. Rayne makes no ceremony for
me, I assure I you. I must only await his pleasure. But lest I have disturbed you--"

"Not at all," Honor interrupted, "I was only amusing myself."

"We may as well not be strangers," Guy said, courteously advancing towards Honor, "for we are
likely to meet very often henceforward. I am Mr. Rayne's nephew, his sister's son, and I was
the only toy in the big nursery of his heart until Miss Edgeworth appeared, which young lady
I think I have at present the honor to address."

Honor bowed, and, extending her hand, said in her sweetest voice--

"For Mr. Rayne's sake we must certainly be friends,"--then feeling a little more at home with
her visitor, she continued, "As no one comes in here unannounced, I ventured to attempt a little
disguise this afternoon. I mistook your knock for some one's of the household, and had just
struck the last attitude of my assumed character when you caught me--I hope the effect on your
nerves was nothing serious," and as she spoke this in her bewitching confusion Guy felt like
taking her up in his arms, little bundle of blushes and smiles as she looked, and devouring
her, but before he had time for word or action, the door opened again, and this time Henry
Rayne bustled in, glaring in bewilderment upon them--

"Why! You two young rascals, how did you come together? Here you've cheated me out of anticipated
pleasure by finding one another out behind my back--this is too bad!" and Mr. Rayne as he spoke
looked suspiciously at each of them.

"Oh, Mr. Rayne," and "Really, uncle," broke simultaneously from their lips, and then Guy, advancing,
explained the interesting circumstances of their premature introduction.

"Well, it's just as well," Henry Rayne said, laughing, "we are all to be the one family henceforth,
and the sooner it began the better--sit down Honor--sit down my boy," continued he, drawing
chairs towards the fire, "come Guy, tell us the news, you have nothing else to do but gather it."

It was all over and done, those hands that had been groping in the darkness for so long, had
met at length in one another's clasp. True it was, that no word had yet betrayed the feeling
of either heart, no action, no sign had been made, and yet each knew full well that they had
met at a threshold which they were both destined to cross, hand in hand. It was not presumption
on either side, but each felt so truly that it would be easy now to love, that they had met.
It seemed as though one had sought the other for a long tune, and that now they had met never,
never to part.

It will avail us nothing to dwell upon the details that made up the happy days of Honor Edgeworth's
life after her meeting with Guy Elersley. To those who know what it is to breathe, live, and
act under the soothing influence of a first love, the page would be a superfluous one, and
to those for whom such a blessed phase of life is yet among the things to be, mine must not
be the pen that will spoil the luxury thereof by anticipating its joy--and again, to the wrinkled
brows and aching hearts for which such a thing lies among the "might have beens," oh, I will
not surely speak--I see their blinding tears--I hear a long, mournful sigh--somebody's fate
is cursed, somebody's hope is trampled, somebody's heart is withered and dead! There remain
only those who live their love-days in a holy remembrance, those who, in going backward through
time go

  "--hand in hand
  With spirits from the shadowland,"

and to those I whisper the words of our poet, and say--

  "'Tis better to have loved and lost,
  Than never to have loved at all."

All I will say is, that the sun which set upon the world on the day when, for the first time,
Guy and Honor linked hands, never, since nor before, went down upon any two creatures who were
more thoroughly satisfied with themselves than were these two.

When Guy left Mr. Rayne's house, the evening was far spent--and such an evening! If an exclamation
point cannot imply its happiness it must remain a mystery. Long after he had bade his earnest
"good-night," Honor and her guardian sat together over the dying coals and chatted pleasantly.
It was their custom to hold this nightly gossip no matter at how late an hour their visitors
left them.

"And so that is my brave nephew for you," Henry Rayne said, as Honor stood up and placed her
chair against the wall, "How do you like him?"

Like him? If he could have seen her averted face--her eyes--her mouth!

"Don't you ask an opinion a little soon?" she replied, so carelessly, that the shrewdest observer
would be baffled.

"Well, I don't mean to ask you if you're crazy about him, or anything like that," Mr. Rayne
said, half-laughing, "but do you take to him, do you think you will be friends? That's what
I'd like to know."

"Oh," she exclaimed, disguising her excitement in a smile of surprise, "I do not doubt that,
at least so far as I am concerned, I have been friends with more--with less--I mean with more--no,
with less intereresting people."

"Gracious! it seems to have puzzled you if you have," Henry Rayne said, mischievously, as he
saw her color and grow impatient with herself, "you seem at a loss to know on what equality
you would put poor Guy's interest"

"Now, you needn't teaze, just because I'm dreadfully sleepy and can't talk right; I won't say
another word, only--Good-night," and kissing him brusquely on the cheek, she skipped out of
the room.

But the subject had not dropped through with these remarks.

The following day as Honor sat in the library alone, Mr. Rayne bustled in, and sat down beside
her, as he said, to read her some interesting item from the morning Citizen, but instead of
leaving her again, Honor saw that he was lingering in the room purposely. (I wonder if anyone
ever yet loitered around a place pretendingly to no purpose without immediately betraying that
he was full of purpose.) After Henry Rayne had looked at the titles of several books, and gazed
vacantly at the paintings that decorated the walls, and raised the cover of a massive ink-stand
just to drop it again, he made a bold stroke and began his subject as though it had only entered
his head at that very moment.

"Honor," he said somewhat timidly, "I was going to ask you to do something, last night, but
you left me so suddenly that I had to put it off."

"Oh, I am so sorry," Honor answered, raising her lace frame to her mouth, not to hide her face,
but only to bite off an obstinate knot of thread that provoked her. "Is it too late, now?"
she queried anxiously, looking at him.

"Oh, no; it's not too late. It's about Guy."

"Guy?"

"Yes."

"Why, what can I have to do with Guy?"

"Well, I just want you to promise me you will do all you are able. If you do that, I can almost
promise you I will never ask you to do me a favor again."

The puzzled, asking look in her gray eyes deepened, a curious smile stole round her lips.

"I need not tell you how strange this is to me," she said slowly, "you must know that you proposed
an enigma which I cannot solve."

"Come here, Honor," Mr. Rayne said seriously. She laid down her work and went towards him.
He was sitting in a velvet arm-chair, and she knelt beside him, with her white, delicate hands
clasped on the ruby upholstering. He put one arm gently around her, and as he smoothed her
wavy hair with one hand, he asked her earnestly,

"Honor, you know how much good is done in the world by mere contact, do you not?"

"Of course I do, Mr. Rayne; good and evil alike have been kept circulating from the beginning
by individuals."

"That is so. Well, now, don't you think it is a pity when there is a very susceptible person,
one who would be good if he was led, or who would be wicked if he was led--don't you think
it a pity, I ask, that such a person as that should go to ruin because there is no good influence
open to him in his life?"

"Undoubtedly," the girl answered seriously. "But Mr. Rayne, no one need be wicked if he wishes
to be good, evil is not forced on us you know."

"I know that, my child, but we are not always as strong as our inclinations--the spirit is
one thing and the flesh another. Now, I want to appoint you a mission--you are a good girl,
and your pleasure is in doing good. Supposing you would favor me by doing good at my request?"

Honor started a little, and looked enquiringly into his face.

"You know you have only to tell me your wish, dear Mr. Rayne. I wish I could have anticipated
it; but as that could not be, I pray you tell me immediately. What can I do for you worth the
asking?"

"I want you to promise me that you will begin right away to work your influence over Guy."
The color rose to her cheeks, and the smile faded out of her eyes and mouth. "This, mind, is
a profound secret, Guy has neither father nor mother--he has no home, nor no real friends.
I, like the rest, have spoiled him but God has sent me you in time. I know that my dead sister
would rebuke me severely were she to see her boy, my charge, so reckless and so dissipated.
But I fancy it is not so much my fault--my influence could never change him much.--I want you,
for my sake, to try yours. You have only to meet him often, and talk with him. If he has eyes
at all he must see in our practical life all the theories he has heard preached to him so often.
Show him in all the indirect ways you can, how foolish and frivolous are the ways of society
to-day. He is a clever boy, and susceptible, and your trouble will not be lost. Come, now,
will you promise me only to try, for my sake?"

"How you exaggerate the capacity of a weak woman," she said a little sadly, then, after a moment's
pause, she continued--"It is no trifling mission you appoint to me, Mr. Rayne; it is full of
responsibilities. But there!" and she clapped her little hand firmly into his, "That means
my strongest resolution--I will do my best You can ask no more."

"God bless you" the old man murmured slowly, squeezing the slender fingers tenderly between
both his hands, "I am sure you will never regret it."

No other word was spoken. Henry Rayne had left the room, and Honor stood there alone--stood
with folded hands and dreamy eyes--thinking. What a strange request this had been! How was
she going to fulfil her promise without betraying the real impulse that had spurred her to
make it? How was she going to work her way into his confidence, and yet guard her own? Oh,
if this were a task for Mr. Rayne's sake only, how easily she would convert it into a pleasure--but
she had promised, that cancelled all her misgivings. She would do it now, if it were in woman's
power, she would make it her duty, and with a resolute will and an anxious heart, surely the
accomplishment would not prove too hard--"Only--if I had not seen my want supplied in him--if
I had not recognized in him the hero of my life's dream. Oh, Guy! What a joy it will be to
me if I can teach you to come to me, turning your back upon gaiety, and pleasure, and temptation,
to sit by my side, when the voice of a more powerful tempter is stifling mine. What joy for
me then!--but no, I am wrong!--it is not my gratification I have been sent to seek; this is
a mere duty. If I had loathed you at this moment, my duty is still the same. Just now, it is
not your sake nor mine--it is Henry Rayne's."

The door opened slowly and the croaky voice of the old male servant broke upon her reverie.

"Beg pardon Miss, but dinner is served."

Heroically she stowed away her emotions, the old pleasant smile stole back into its home, and
with a beaming face and cheerful step she passed into the dining-room.

CHAPTER VI.

  "Oh the snow, the beautiful snow
  Filling the sky and the earth below.'

"It will be a stormy night I think," Honor says, shrugging her pretty shoulders behind the
window-blind she is just lowering, "I wish I had the stout brawny arms of a man to-night...."

"Around your waist?" says a voice from behind her, and, suiting the action to the word, some
one encircles her slender waist with "stout brawny arms."

"Guy! I have told you in plain English that I will not allow you to take such freedom with
me. This time, I say, 'Je vous difends sirieusementde mettre vos bras....'"

"Oh! that's enough, by Jove, you'd drive a fellow crazy if he'd listen to you long enough,
with your recitals on maidenly propriety. Now, there's Miss Bella Dash--many a season's belle--just
chuckles with delight when I get this broad cloth sleeve fairly around her blue satin basque"

"Oh! I dare say! but society gives 'poetical licences' to her adopted children, which outside
of her pale would be simply atrocious. If Bella Dash saw your coat sleeve around Betsy, the
house-maid's basque, it would mean another thing altogether, though Betsy's eyes are as fine
as Miss Bella's any day. Besides, you must have learned by now that the 'Bella Dash's' of Ottawa
society to-day are nothing to me. My sympathy for my sex goes out to the whole species and
when I offer it to individuals, I exclude the 'Miss Dash's' that make the 'tableaux vivants'
of the modern drawing-room."

"By Jove! that is a fine speech Honor; now see here between you and me (I might also add the
only two sensible people in Ottawa) what do you think would become of us young enthusiastic
fellows if all the 'girls' stood on their high-heeled dignity like you? Why of course the monasteries
and lunatic asylums would have more to do, and by and by, the lunatic asylum would have it
all; but destiny is not so cruel a tyrant as you, so she makes your haughty kind the exception
and not the rule."

Honor laughed, a low curious laugh, and said "Then she is very kind to me to have made me realize
soon enough how much too worthy I am to be any man's pastime, a toy for him to play with until
the paint is rubbed off--then to be flung aside for something new. If that is all Bella Dash
and her prototypes, are worth in your estimation, it is no wonder they are proud, and no wonder
they hold their heads high enough to sniff the air over the heads of girls, who, were you to
use their names as you do Miss Dash's, would level you to the ground."

"My most supreme stand-offish friend, I hope sincerely you won't preach any of these theories
around our gay little city. Why, the young ladies here are just a jolly crowd, who don't transmogrify
their whole faces because a fellow likes to spoon now and then to kill time. By Jove! you'd
spoil the fun for the winter, and as soon as spring came the whole male element of Ottawa City
would 'make' for the fresh pastures of the North-West."

"That is a worthy declaration Mr. Elersly, I must say. I hope you are aware that in speaking
thus, you risk the good opinion of your respectable sensible friends--if you have any--outside
of this house. It is cold so near the window, let me pass please. I prefer a seat by the fire
to this stupid argument here in the window recess."

The mischievous smile died out of Guy's handsome face, as he looked earnestly into the beautiful
eyes of the girl standing by him.

"Oh yes, of course" said he, with a sigh, "anything is stupid in my company, although I come
to you when I'm in good spirits for sympathy, as well as when I'm 'blue' for consolation: you
always find it dull and stupid, and you don't hesitate to tell me either. If I bore you so
dreadfully, I'll be off."

Honor looked up suddenly; she stretched out her hand and laid it on his shoulder; her voice
was changed and earnest as she said. "Stay Guy, and we'll talk it over in a friendly way. There
are two seats by the grate, and I will be very amiable--I promise you."

There was a moment of hesitation--temptation--both ways for Guy. At last he looked up, saying:
"I'm really sorry, Honor, but I made an engagement for eight o'clock, and I've only ten minutes
to walk over half a mile; so we'll have to postpone our little 'veillee.'"

She turned from him and looked into the fire "Very well," she answered quietly, "the night
is stormy, but I suppose you don't mind that."

"Not much," a fellow has to humour the weather for the weather won't humour him.

"But by Jove! its eight o'clock," said Guy, looking at his watch, "and I'll be puckering my
patrician brow to invent an excuse for this delay. So 'ta-ta.'"

"Good night," Honor said in a low voice, extending her hand as Guy approached the fire to light
his cigar. Another moment, and the young girl was alone with her thoughts.

We might stop here and wonder at the mysterious conventionality that is influencing all our
lives now-a-days. It is not a deception, and yet its consequences are often the same. Here
was a striking instance of its existence. It might have been noticed from the beginning of
the last interview that Honor and Guy had grown somewhat more familiar with one another. It
was Mr. Rayne's doings, for had he not interfered, the same cold mysterious distance would
still have been between them; but there was no sacrifice too great where he was concerned,
and it was purely for his sake the young people dispensed with the formality of their early
acquaintance. And yet, how superficial this familiarity was on both sides! Just now, look at
them--read their thoughts--see their hearts.

Guy closed the front door with a heavy bang and went out into the street troubled. He was talking
to himself: "Such a farce, by Jove! one would think she was a little sister, by the way I try
to speak, and if she only knew how I struggle to suffocate the passion that rises within me,
when she looks up so earnestly out of her big dreaming eyes; it is sheer folly and I'll go
mad if it must continue--and yet--if uncle ever suspected my love he would separate us then
and there. But it is dangerous dust I am flinging in his eyes by being free and easy with her
in this way. In a little while more I won't be able to trust myself, and God help me then.
Confound those Teazle girls, only for their invitation I would have stayed with Honor to-night,
but a fellow belongs to every one in this city before himself, and I can't expect to escape"

  "Alas! for the rarity
  Of Christian charity
  Under the sun."

By this time he was mounting the steps of his boarding-house, and he flung the butt of his
cigar violently at a gaunt spare cat that just ventured its pinched countenance from under
the verandah. As he turned the latch-key, he was indulging in a strain of "In the gloaming,
oh! my darling" as though he were the happiest of living creatures.

For some moments after Guy left his uncle's house Honor sat motionless reading the coals. She
was troubled: Mr. Rayne expected her to be able to entice his nephew away from these never
ending parties of pleasure, and she could not. If she did not care for him quite so much, her
task would indeed be easier, indifference spurs on so to a task that is mere duty. How miserable
she was, here, all alone, on his account, while he, where was he spending these moments fraught
with so much anxiety for her?

At this juncture Mr. Rayne bustled in and, somewhat surprised to find his little girl alone,
he took the seat Honor had placed for Guy, and settled himself for a comfortable fireside chat.

CHAPTER VII.

Let us now contrast the two pictures which present themselves to the imagination on this stormy
winter evening. One is quiet, usual, familiar; the other is noisy, glittering, but also familiar.
One is the drawing-room in Mr. Rayne's comfortable house, with the gaslight falling gently
over the silent room--it is not turned very high. Mr. Rayne is dozing in an arm-chair. His
hands are folded across his breast, and his limbs are extended at full length--he is dreaming.
Honor is seated at the piano, stealing her slender fingers over the ivory keys. It is a low,
rippling strain--Valse des Soupirs--such as fairies might bring from their magic touch. 'Tis
the music of her own heart--the sound of her sighs, and she plays on softly, heedlessly. She
is lost in the ecstacy of her own reverie.

We turn to the other side of the picture. Noisy strains of dance music, merry peals of laughter,
little snatches of society gossip, beaming faces, silk and lace and flimsy loveliness, bouquets
and gloves, trains, handkerchiefs, fans and flirtation, all in a sweet confusion. This is Ottawa
at its best, as every one allows when the Misses Teazle throw aside their family portals for
their annual ball. Every one is there-- married and single, young and old, homely and pretty,
rich and--(no! not rich and poor), the rich only, the powerful only, the most influential papas
and the best-dressed mammas that Ottawa can afford, and the "juveniles" get in on pa's and
ma's qualifications. It is the first private ball since the opening of Parliament, and every
one feels very fresh for pleasure. The Misses Teazle themselves look charming (what hostesses
ever did not in Ottawa?) and the rest vie with one another.

We are somewhat confused on our entrance into the brilliant room, but some glaring objects
attract our attention, thereby kindly taking that look of vacant bewilderment out of our eyes.
We have often wondered what the scene was like inside those closed shutters, and here we are
now, transported all at once to the very midst of the interesting proceedings.

There is a group near the door that we readily take in, in our first sweeping glance round
the room. Mrs. Mountainhead, a lady prodigiously inclined to embonpoint, looking exceedingly
warm and uncomfortable, is the central figure. Her two daughters and their attendant cavaliers
are also there. But it is plain to see that Mrs. Mountainhead does not enjoy the ball. She
stands in holy awe of her aristocratic daughters, who are just "fresh" from a very modern boarding-school.
Every word she utters has an accompanying look thrown either to the short-sighted full- complexioned
eldest daughter or to the slim, unprepossessing younger one, seeking approval from their responsive
glances. And, after all, poor Mamma Mountainhead, in her ruby velvet and Chantilly lace, has,
by far, more brains of her own--if she could get a license to use them-- than either of her
daughters have ever admitted within the limits of their well-frizzed heads. But who is the
apparently devoted admirer of Miss Gerty Mountainhead, who is leaning over her chair from behind,
with the top of his aquiline nose in ridiculous proximity to her very red face? Who but Mr.
Guy Elersley? There he is, whispering all kinds of nothings into the blushing, susceptible
ear of dear Miss Gerty, never heeding the thought of the lonely girl at the piano in the quiet
home of his uncle.

Then there is a silvery laugh, and you hear the words--"Well, between the Racquet court and
the skating rink, and calls, and going out, what do you think I could ever do? Why, the day
is not half long enough as it is."

"Surely not, Miss Dash," a deep voice makes answer in a tone of quiet amusement, "you must
be dreadfully worried in trying to make things harmonize. You are so tired at night that half
the morning must go for repose, and then--"

Here the speakers moved on and it was seen that Bella Dash was happy on the arm of a wealthy
bachelor who was fast becoming interesting to all female friends, mamas and daughters. It is
easy to see at a glance that every one is fooling every one else, and the male element in the
room is absorbing all the real fun.

With the exception of a few newly-appointed civil servants who have "made their calls" and
run an account at the tailors, the other gentlemen are mostly well-versed in the drawing-room
slang and will certainly not bore their fair partners by discussing anything outside of Rideau
Hall, or the other fashionable and interesting haunts of gay winter festivities. These gallant
knights are easily distinguished looking around the ball room with half-closed eyes (they are
mostly short-sighted), or parading their audible element through the room with such a lazy
drawl--beautifully substituting the r's with a perfectly Italianized "aw."

Among these indispensables, were Jack Fairmay, Willie Airey and a great many more of our "Sparks
Street" elegants. How much better they look on a freezing afternoon with their noses blue and
their fur caps pulled comfortably down over their ears, than in the painfully proper looking
long-tailed broad cloth and white kids, exactions of society's absolute laws.

All the blondes and brunettes of Centre Town and Upper Town and Sandy Hill, all the "tony"
Post Office clerks, all the young, flourishing, embryo and genuine lawyers, doctors, engineers,
rich lumber merchants, and civil servants, ad infinitum were there.

What a gay picture! What an interesting sight! Who would not love Ottawa for its self-made
gouty papas and its fat, airy, comfortable mamas? Think of the wonderful influence of these
thoroughly Christian women on the sphere in which they shine. Even in this one gathering can
we not realize how the improvements and customs of the day cast their benign influence over
a mighty world, through the rising generation. Those dear pretty pink and white dimpled darlings
done up in "illusion" and silks, how happy it makes one feel only to look at them! This must
be the nature of the remarks, Guy and another male friend exchange in the bay window. Let us
draw nearer.

"You're wrong, Bob my dear," Guy is saying, "I agree with you they do look like fish-hooks
strung in a row, but I heard Miss Nellie Teazle tell Mrs. John Prim, that that was the 'Montagu'
style; so excuse me for contradicting you."

"Oh! don't mention it, the name almost redeems the folly of the thing. By the way Elersley,
you have been 'going it' in rather a pronounced way with Miss Mountainhead to-night. Is it
too soon to be the first to congratulate?"

"Oh Lord!" Guy smothers the exclamation under his heavy moustache. "You might try the names
of all the dear ones in succession on me. They're just immensely jolly, you know, but I never
heard of a young Ottawaite in his sane sober senses, go choose his future wife in a ballroom."

Just here, Miss Dash comes up and throws a coquettish look at Guy through the opening in the
curtains. He nods a temporary good-bye to his companion and goes off to claim the next waltz
which Miss Dash has promised him, and, oh Guy! naughty boy! if he is not saying over the identical
pretty nothings to Miss Bella, that are yet filling the heart of Miss Mountainhead. with a
delicious souvenir of him.

In another corner of the room Bob Apley is "spooning" most suggestively with the same Miss
MacArgent whose "fish-hooks" he has just been ridiculing so mercilessly. This of course is
pardonable according to the world's wise indulgent maxims, especially when we consider that
Miss MacArgent's father's income, daily, is almost identical with the amount of dollars and
cents that find their way to the pockets of the impecunious Bob in a whole year.

Besides Emily is rather a good-looking specimen of the "foreign" belles that winter in Ottawa,
and some one even said last winter that one of the Governor-General's Aides-de Camp and she--oh!
we all know how the green-eyed monster tortured the hearts of the poor belles of countless
seasons, when they saw their indisputable rights usurped by a comparative stranger. The two
Misses Begg, for instance, who have been twenty-five and twenty-six respectively for the last
eight years, waiting for the turn in their lives, that will never come, have cause for bitter
complaint. The same faces are here that are ever on exhibition as the champion tennis player,
the champion skater, another an unrivalled waltzer, and some more distinguished vocalists and
instrumental performers. These grow wearisome once the novelty wears off. There is nothing
in them besides the foam that blows away after a little and leaves no trace of its once august
presence.

We will make our adieus gladly to the affected civil servants, the young embryo professionals,
the rich independent bachelors, the corpulent papas and mamas, the famous tennis, skating,
singing, dancing and playing heroines, and go joyfully back to the snug little parlor of Henry
Rayne, where sits the only one sensible girl we have seen to-night.

She has ceased playing, and is now sitting by a low table with her lovely head bent earnestly
over a lap full of wool-work. The little clock goes ticking on through the noiseless moments
that come and go and still her busy fingers ply hurriedly through the stitches. At last it
is ten o'clock and instinctively she rises, puts away her wools and needle, and goes over to
the chair which yet supports the sleeping figure of Henry Rayne.

"Good night, Grandpapa," she says softly in his ear.

He hears the low sweet whisper. Her voice would penetrate the depth of death itself for him,
he fancies. She said "Grandpapa." She only calls him that when she is sad, whenever a sense
of bitter loneliness fills her heart, making her miss a kind mother and her dear handsome father
most.

He opens his eyes instantly and raises his hand to draw the pretty bowed head closer still to his.

"Good-night, my dear little child. How stupid of me to have dozed here all night leaving you
by yourself."

"Don't fret, Grandpa dear, I love your company, and all that, but remember I am never less
alone than when alone, and an evening by myself is never lost to me."

"No, my pretty one, but you must grow tired some day thinking so incessantly, I must try and
distract you; it is dreadful of me to keep you housed up, so secluded, when there is so much
for your youth and beauty to enjoy outside. May be I'm responsible for many a sigh you've heaved
lately, but it never struck me you see, my pretty darling, that our sentiments and sympathies
run so widely apart, it is not very surprising if an old prosy bachelor should forget to ferret
out the pleasures of youth, to bestow them on a fair young beautiful thing like you,"

"Oh-ho, now dear old Grandpa, you have been sleeping and dreaming of somebody you are mistaking
for me. Don't fret for not spoiling me more than you do. I am pampered enough dear knows. Good-night,
I am sleepy too, and I think a night's rest would not be detrimental to either of us, eh grandfather?"
and kissing him tenderly on both cheeks, she skipped out through the open doorway and ran up
to her own little room.

CHAPTER VIII.

There was no nonsense about Honor Edgeworth. Anyone should like her. There may have been traits
in her character that would elicit no sympathy from some, but they either forget the extraordinary
circumstances that influenced her young life, or else they are prejudiced against such individuals
as she, whose eyes are widely opened to all the existing follies and extravagances of her species.

Honor would have grown up and bloomed to ornament a far fairer land than Canada, her too enthusiastic
nature would have been infinitely better developed in another world, but it is useless to sit
down and mourn over the "might have beens" that are always such a loss to us, because we see
them, devoid of all the disadvantages realization brings to bear on our own sad experience.

Honor was not even one of those exceptionable women created, not out of the slime of the earth,
but conceived in the romantic mind of some extravagant novelist, and brought into the world
by his magic pen. No indeed, she had certainly a beautiful face, almost a faultless face, but
how many have cursed the day when first they knew their own beauty! How many look back over
pages and pages of awful crimes and shameful deeds, and the index page, the starting point,
is their beautiful face. So do not be too hasty in envying the physical perfection or loveliness
of others. Rejoice that you have it not; the want of it must be your salvation. Know well that
if it is not yours, it is because the possession and consciousness thereof would lead you to
evil, and it is one of those things for which God has his own wise ends.

Perhaps if Honor had mixed with the feminine world more intimately she would not be the standard
of maidenly modesty and reserve that she was in her nineteenth year; but in her there was an
utter absence of that self-sufficiency and loudness that is painfully prominent now-a-days
in the very city we inhabit. And yet in all her meekness and mildness if you by look or word
injured the extreme sense of delicacy that was the under current of all her movements, then--she
reared her aristocratic chin high in the air and looked down upon you in such scorn and anger,
as wounded innocence alone can assume. One curl of that splendid lip, one flash from that cold
grey eye and you did not take long to feel how basely you had lowered yourself, and that a
pardon craved on your knees could scarce half atone for the offence.

What a loss to the social world that women of her stamp are not more plentiful! What on earth
else can redress social evils if not the redeeming influence of good Christian determined women?
Why should they not hold the key to the good impulses, the moral treasures of mankind as well
as they wind themselves into the evil nature by enticing the susceptible, dealing out gratification
to the willing, and dragging souls blindfolded into an irremediable eternity?

Physiognomists tell us, if we can not observe it for ourselves, that there exists not only
that universal difference among things, which makes genus, species, classes, etc., but that
even among individuals there is no perfect resemblance found. There are the general prominent
traits that serve to classify them, but perhaps there is more difference among the individuals
of a species, when examined minutely, than there would be between individuals of a different genus.

This is so true of the human species, which is difficult to judge individually on account of
the incessant mysterious hidden workings of that ever active faculty of the soul, which manifests
itself so differently to other eyes through actions and words of greater or less import.

This is a digression, but, it came from contemplating the singular beauty of one woman's soul,
among the tarnished multitude of victims to that social levity and those superficial virtues
that society honors, and with which our modern fashionable women persuade themselves they are
doing marvels in the world of good.

If I make a paragon of Honor Edgeworth, it is because I can defy any broad-minded, unprejudiced
critic to find a single grievous fault in her character.

Besides the ordinary cultivation of her mind in all its faculties, Honor had another and a
nobler ambition. She had acquired all the requisite knowledge to fit her for any station in
life, from that of a nursery governess to that of the highest lady in the land. Her learning
was not a smattering of this and that--a few words of German, a great deal too many of her
own tongue, a well-studied enthusiasm for Tennyson and Longfellow, and may be now and then
a word for the "Lake" school poets. Who has not met in their long or short run of experience
with the modern graduate who "perfectly idolized" Tennyson or Byron, who "raved" about Shelley's
poetical mysticism, or who was "fairly enchanted" with Goethe's deep romanticism. In some of
her peculiar phases she even reckons as items of her illimitable knowledge selections from
her "favorites" among the French romantics, or the realistic school may be more to her taste.
She rolls up her eyes for Mozart and Beethoven and Gottschalk, but her heart thumps for Offenbach,
Lamothe or Strauss. To make herself "interesting" in society she has "burned the midnight oil"
over "David Copperfield," "Dombey and Son," "Jane Eyre," "East Lynne," "Endymion" and other
popular volumes as they gain fame. She can sing snatches from all the finest operas, in Italian,
German or French. She can dance the Boston and Rush Polka with unrivalled grace, she can flirt
and affect the most becoming airs, she never misses a matinee or evening performance at the
Grand Opera House; she can do the "grape-vine" exquisitely on her silver-plated skates, and
can toss the tennis ball with wonderful dexterity.

All this relates to the effects of the superficial cultivation that our women are getting in
this century. A mind polished so that the "rough" cannot manifest itself, a little veneering
of knowledge and showy accomplishments, but a heart, alas!--ignored and neglected; the source
of all womanly perfection blocked up and destroyed--that is the sacrifice that will alone appease
the world in its most sensual phase of to-day, the sacrifice complete and universal of women's
hearts. Ah! how soon they nourish the briers and thistles of cold indifference and unchristian
feeling. In opposition to this sad spectacle I come back to Honor Edgeworth by her bedside,
on her knees, at her evening prayer. Here is a woman who has moulded her heart according to
the law of Christ. "Be ye perfect, as your Heavenly Father is perfect." Here is a woman who
is learned, wise and simple, gay, light-hearted and pious, confiding and discreet, one who
can redeem the loss of many because temptation assailed her and left her the victor.

Long after Honor lay sleeping peacefully, her pink cheeks buried in the soft pillows, Mr. Rayne
sat thinking in the armchair below. It was growing painfully evident to him that his darling
protegee was now budding into all the fullness and maturity of womanhood, and had she been
his own daughter he would have introduced her formally into society by now. This was what troubled
him. He did not relish the idea of sending this fair delicate morsel out among the chills and
dangers of a cold world. And yet, if influenced by this good intention, he deprived her of
the seeming advantages that active life in society affords, and if in later years she would
reproach him as the cause of some misfortune or other, what would these probably groundless
fears avail him in his defence? She was old enough to know danger, and she had spoken to him
already of the world as though her experience of it was great and sufficient. Perhaps all she
needed for a final confirmation of her opinions of the degradation of that same world was a
trial of it. And should he wrong her by depriving her of it through a false motive?

Whatever way he turned the argument it looked like a dilemma. He should either send her "out"
or not. If he pursued the former course, the advantages were six, the disadvantages half-a-dozen.
If the latter, the advantages were twelve, the disadvantages a dozen, so that he found himself
almost unequal to the solution of the problem.

Bye-and-bye however, he resolved to come to some conclusion, and thus by getting angry with
himself, he narrowed the two inclinations into one, and that assumed the shape of a final decision
to give her the same chances as Ottawa's other comfortable daughters.

Once his resolution was made, matters grew easy. He would write to a widowed cousin who was
living a seceded life in Western Ontario, inducing her to share his home, and the responsibility
that weighed upon him of giving his adopted child her due.

This lady had mourned her departed husband in solitary seclusion for nigh eight years, and
it struck Mr. Rayne on this eventful evening that may be she would find pleasure in a change.

Thus was Honor's destiny slowly deciding itself in the troubled mind of her benefactor while
she lay blissfully unconcious, fast asleep among a heap of downy pillows, with one fair hand
thrown carelessly over her head and a little stray curl or two nestling on her warm flushed brow.

Satisfied with his final judgment, Mr. Rayne called for a light and escorted himself to the
downy arms of his comfortable bed, and when we next take a peep--for of course we've not intruded
for the few moments he was saying his prayers--he is snoring the snore of the truly heavy sleeper,
and his big good-natured face scarcely discernible among night-cap, pillows and sheets, easily
convinces one of the indisputable quiescence of the mind's consciousness in slumber.

Is it not almost equivalent to the acomplishment of the deed itself when we have fallen asleep
the night before with the resolution of performing it on the morrow? Is not the wrong almost
redressed when we have promised our selves to right it at any cost on the morrow? Is not the
thought itself equal to the vow if we know that with the morning's sun we shall rise to make
it in reality? One feels all the satisfaction of a deed accomplished in anticipation, and God
be thanked for this, for how many weary souls must have made their last night on earth endurable,
by the peace of mind that such resolutions infallibly bring.

This explains the comfort and utter heedlessness of Mr Rayne's slumber after such a miserable
time as he passed arguing against himself in his drawing-room. He had vowed that he would broach
the tender subject to Honor the very next day, and thus free himself from any more hours of
self-reproach.

CHAPTER IX.

  "They say the maxim is not new,
   That good and evil mixed must be
  In every thing this world can show."

                           --Patty

The next morning dawned a calm, mild day. The snow was knee-deep on the ground and covered
the housetops with a thick soft mantle. On how many utterly different scenes the stray sunbeams
rested that winter morning. Nearly all the heroines of Miss Teazle's ball were sunk in heavy,
tired slumber, in rooms strewn with laces and flowers and other fragments of last night's dissipation.
The poor over-exerted mammas are neither able to rise nor to sleep, and their pitiably puckered
brows and sour looking faces would excite the sympathy of the most cynical misanthrope.

And yet, perhaps if not reminded, some readers would be tasteless enough to overlook the noble
sacrifice these mothers were making of the comfort of their lives in order to "chaperone" their
stylish daughters to all the haunts of pleasure. These poor fashionable women must indeed drain
life's cup of bitterness to the dregs, if we can judge from the worldly girl's soliloquy.

  Who rigs herself in satins light,
  And goes to parties every night,
  To chaperone her daughters bright?
    My mother

  Who eats late suppers to her grief,
  Of jellied turkeys and roast beef,
  And finds no dyspeptic relief
    My mother

  Who tries to talk with pompous air,
  And saturates with dye her hair,
  To gratify her daughters fair?
    My mother

  Who snubs our neighbor Mrs. Bell,
  In poorer days we knew so well,
  And tales of woe did often tell?
    My mother

  Who calls at Ridleau and all round,
  Where rank and titles do abound,
  And boasts of cousins newly found?
    My mother

  Who fears to bow to poorer kin,
  For fear her daughters will begin
  To growl and scold as though 'twere sin!
    My mother.

I give the intelligent reader ten minutes to pause and moralize after digestion.

I anticipate the look of stupid wonder that must necessarily envelope the face. If there is
so much in individual influence in the lower circle, what can one expect from the multitude
that must submit to a thousand other decrees coming imperatively from the infallible (?) lips
of society herself? How can we do otherwise than substitute for truth and simplicity, deception
and affectation? What else can we do but fail to recognise one another in the characters we
are forced to assume? Is it surprising that good and wise men from their corners of seclusion
call the world degenerate, and wonder at the persistent wrong-doing of those who are the work
of such merciful hands? Strange to say, most of us know, or pretend to know, that life is all
deception; that the world itself, and those who belong to it are essentially, almost necessarily,
selfish; that the goodness and charity which circulate at rare intervals are only the superfluidities
of comfort, proceeding from no generous impulse whatever. It is not dealt out at the sacrifice
of a crust of bread. It is given so that it may not be left.

Oh, the weakness of humanity after nineteen centuries of fortification! Oh, the despicable
degradation of a race conceived in an Eternal Mind, created by an Infinite Hand, redeemed by
the voluntary sacrifice of a God, and sanctified by the Spirit that pervades the universe!

Knowing this, realizing this, as most of us do, why do we not make a move towards independence?
Not the independence of the State, that gratifies the paltry ambition of thousands, not that
social independence whose meaning has of late been so shamefully misapplied, not even the individual
independence that satisfies many. These are but names. I mean that independence that leaves
one unfettered by one's self, that makes one victor over one's own evil tendencies and impulses--for
man has no enemy so cunning as himself. If he cannot conquer his own inclinations to error,
how is he going to subdue them in others?

If we are slaves, mentally and morally to our sensual selves--if we raise the material element
above the spiritual within us, we then lose the right of opinion on good or evil, for a man
that is passion's slave is the mouth-piece of evil, and an active agent of the enemy of mankind!
If we open our volumes of literature, every page bears a reflection of some kind on these things.

For instance, see what a great writer says, speaking of the deception in life:

         "I am weary
  Of the bewildering masquerade of life--
  Where strangers walk as friends and friends as strangers,
  Where whispers overhead betray false hearts;
  And through the mazes of the crowd we chase
  Some form of loveliness that smiles and beckons.
  And cheats us with fair words, to leave us
  A mockery and a jest, maddened, confused--
  Not knowing friend from foe."

Every one who chooses to think at all has a thought in common on the question. In a biography
of George Eliot, Hutton speaks of the manners of good society as "a kind of social costume
or disguise which is in fact much more effective in concealing how much of depth ordinary characters
have, and in restraining the expression of universal human instincts and feelings, than in
hiding individualities the distinguishing inclinations, talents, bias and tastes of those who
assume them. After all, what we care chiefly to know of men and women is not so much their
special bias or tastes as the general depths and mass of the human nature that is in them--the
breadth and power of their life, its comprehensiveness of grasp, its tenacity of instinct,
its capacity for love and its need for trust."

I fear we will never find this among the leading men and women of our day. Great minds, like
George Eliot's, when they wish to spend their genius in written books, will leave the lighted
hall where refinement and bon-ton hold their nightly revels, and will descend to the huts of
laborers and mechanics that form one distinct phase of English life. Like Charlotte Bronte,
and some others, she seeks substance for her work in a true, open character, and that is rarely
found among the educated classes, who learn from books to unlearn the lessons of nature.

We will now leave the "lollipop" darlings of material nature and pass on out of their dishevelled
untidy rooms, leaving their painted faces and powdered heads to spin out the late morning among
the blankets,--and seek gratification elsewhere. It is breakfast-time in Henry Rayne's house
and the curling steam rises in graceful clouds from the hot tasty dishes that Mrs. Potts concocts
with so much art. Honor, Nanette and Mr. Rayne are as usual the only participants of the wholesome
things. Honor has just come in, fresh and rosy, all smiles as she steps up to Mr. Rayne's chair
with a cheery good-morning. Then kneeling beside her guardian, and looking into his kindly
face, she says shyly:

"I have something to tell you all, a surprise, and don't begin breakfast before you know it.
If I were not a little orphan this morning, I would let it pass likely, but having only you
and Nanette I must tell you, that you may not spare your kind wishes for me. To-day is my twentieth
birthday!"

Mr. Rayne rose instantly to his feet and his eyes looked suspiciously moist as he kissed her
tenderly on the brow. Then Honor turned to Nanette, but the poor woman was weeping mournfully
in her blue handkerchief.

"I'll never forgive myself," she was saying, "to have forgotten your birthday above everything
else, and your dear kind father when he gave you to me, a tiny thing in my arms, said, 'she
will be a year the 24th February, don't ever forget the day,' and there it slipped from me
this time and I never thought of it."

Honor flung her arms round the old creature's neck and drowned her reproaches in a volley of
kisses.

"Don't mind that Nanny dear, say you wish me a good Christian life for the next year and you
will have done your duty."

"God grant it you, my pretty child."

"Amen," answered Mr. Rayne's deep voice as he left the room.

Honor looked up surprised, but in a few moments her guardian returned with a morocco jewel
case in his hands. He placed it in hers, saying, "My you live to wear it out in goodness and
virtue, and may God spare you from the snares of this wicked world."

With trembling fingers Honor opened the little box which revealed to view a spangling collection
of diamonds. It was an oval locket, profusely set with diamonds with her initials turned artfully
on the surface. Inside were the miniature pictures of her father and mother. She laid down
the costly gift and went over to her benefactor with tear-dimmed eyes. She put both her slender
arms around his neck and pressed one long fervent kiss upon the old man's brow.

"Are you determined, dear Mr. Rayne, to put me under an everlasting obligation to you? Are
you not satisfied with bestowing those tokens that I might in time repay by constant love and
care, without forcing such a splendid gift as this on me? Really your kindness begins to make
me uncomfortable, for it is amounting to a debt I can never repay. And where did you get these
dear, dear pictures, and how did you have it ready and all for my birthday?"

"Well, my dear, say we sit down and I'll answer all your questions to the music of knives and
forks. I have had a miniature likeness of your father in my possession for many years, and
it had often struck me, if I could but procure one of your mother's too, how it would please
me to have them set together in a locket for you. The other day I was taken nicely out of my
dilemma by finding an old-fashioned locket of yours by the fire in the library. I borrowed
it for the short space of a few days until I had copies taken from it, and then Nanette kindly
slipped it back into your jewel-case for me. I then ordered the little receptacle that you
have admired so much and I only received the whole last night. Strangely enough too, that it
should have come just in time. I would have given it to you immediately anyway, because of
something I am going to discuss with you in the library after breakfast."

Honor was still looking intently down at the open case beside her plate when he finished the
last sentence, but she looked up suddenly as he ceased, with a glance of eager inquiry in her eyes.

"It may startle you, Honor, or may not, but we'll see to that."

A little more rattling of plates and cutlery, a few more clouds of steam from the rich coffee,
a series of disconnected gay sentences and ejaculations and the meal was over. The grave tones
of Mr. Rayne's voice filled the room in a prayer of thanksgiving, and with the last echo of
the "Amen," Honor and her guardian came out from the dining-room into the library arm in arm.

CHAPTER X.

         "Her life, I said
  Will be a volume wherein I have read
  But the first chapters, and no longer see
  To read the rest of the dear history."
                                   --Longfellow

Honor had just taken up her crocheting and was plying her needle busily when Mr Rayne drew
his heavy leathern chair opposite to the fire and began:

"Well, my dear little girl, here you are a young woman all at once on my hands, and to me you
are yet the childish little thing you were three years ago in the railway carriage at the Manchester
Depot. But the world won't see things to suit a short-sighted old bachelor like me, and according
to that omnipotent, omniscient world, it is now my duty to introduce you into society, to bring
you 'out' into Ottawa life, that you may make a display of all the accomplishments which fortune
has bestowed upon you. I will introduce you to a world that will not hesitate in appreciating
all the physical, mental, and moral beauty, you may choose to display in it. My duty will then
be completed for another while. Now what is your opinion on it? You will have Mrs. D'Alberg,
my widowed cousin from Guelph, to chaperone you, you have 'carte blanche' as regards toilet
expenditure, and my house is open and at your service henceforth."

All along a smile of slow astonishment had been creeping over Honor's beautiful face, but instead
of any showy enthusiasm either way, as Mr. Rayne had certainly expected, she straightened out
the rosette of lace work on her knee and clapped it with her little palm. Then drawing a long
breath she said:

"So! it has come to this. Well, my dear Mr. Rayne, if my position in your house exacts an entree
into society, I most willingly go forth to it, though had you never spoken of it, it had never
entered my mind. I am prejudiced, it is true, against society, but I defy its influence over
me. Every woman owes her mite to the social world, and consequently I owe mine, so as soon
as you wish it Mr. Rayne, I am yours to command."

She had scarcely finished the words when the door was flung open and the words and air of "I'll
live for love or die" filled the room. He was just continuing "I'll live for lo--"

"O pardon, a hundred thousand times, Miss Edgeworth and uncle, I didn't really think the room
was inhabited at such an early hour in the morning, but the fact that it is, only enchants
me all the more, I assure you."

"Well, well, Guy, you are a 'case.' How are you this morning? Have you breakfasted?"

"Well, uncle, I thank you; and to your second kind query, I respectfully beg to inform you
that I helped to clear away Mrs. Best's table this morning very perceptibly. Not that I had
any particular relish for her compositions--which were yesterday's lunch and last night's dinner
done over a la Francay--Rooshan-hash-up! but then a fellow by natural instinct owes himself
the indispensable duty of eating his breakfast, and as a slave to duty, I, this morning, about
an hour ago, ate my breakfast."

"Well, for goodness sake! as a duty to your fellow-creatures talk sense. Here, sit down," Mr.
Rayne continued, rising himself, "I must excuse myself for half-an-hour. I've not had a look
at the Citizen yet, and I must be off soon to official duties."

Guy Elersley was well satisfied to be a substitute in Mr. Rayne's vacant chair. He had not
laid himself out for such good luck when he turned into his uncle's on this eventful morning,
so his appreciation was consequently all the more vivid.

"You're bright and early, Honor, for a young lady on a winter morning," he said, as he drew
his chair towards the fire.

"Not unusually so for Honor Edgeworth--and that means a young lady, doesn't it?"

"That's right; snub a fellow right and left when he forgets to isolate you from the whole living,
breathing creation. Then you are not bright and early--will that do?"

"My dear Mr. Elersley," said Honor, in a provokingly placid way, "don't exert yourself so violently
in contradicting your own free, unextracted observations. You can amuse me in a dozen other
different ways as well."

"Oh, bother! Come now, Honor, leave off that ice water business, and give a fellow a word of
welcome after being out in the cold. Put away that bundle of thread you're fooling with there
this half-hour. You have not taken your eyes from off it yet, nor spoken a decent word since
I came in."

"Oh, dear!" said Honor, drawing a feigned sigh, "I suppose when a child's spoiled it's spoiled,
that's all, and you must humor it." "Now," folding up her work, "what have you to say worth
the trouble you've given me?"

"Oh nothing I could tell you would be that in your opinion. I was at a big 'shine' last night
at Miss Teazle's, and feasted my eyes on all Ottawa has to show in the way of female loveliness."

"And you have come to spend the gush of your emotions consequent to such a feast on me, have you?"

"No, Honor, I have not. I did see deuced pretty girls, but the emotion, as you call it, vanished
as I handed the last fair bundle of shawls into her carriage. While the light burns, you know,
the moth hangs around it, but when the flame goes out, spent in a weary flicker, after 'braving
it' for a whole night, the moth goes to roost, when he has not been singed, or otherwise personally
damaged without insurance. Well, what are you thinking of now? when you cross your arms, bury
your gaze in the fire and strike your slipper with such measured beat on the fender, I know
you're not paying much attention to what I am saying."

She drew a long breath as though no answer were required, and then in a quiet, low tone she said,

"Guy, do not talk in that light way of any woman. I know what you men have long accustomed
yourselves to believe--that woman was made purposely for your pleasure; 'Man for God only,
she for God in him,'--but, all the same that does not exact the ratification of Heaven. If
my sisters of Ottawa society, with whom you one moment amuse yourself, and the next amuse your
listeners with a recital of their follies, are weak enough to seek to gratify you and your
kind, 'tis not that such a weakness is a natural inheritance, for every woman who realizes
her true worth, knows what a grand mission is before her, and consequently crushes such an
absurd theory as fashionable women are brought up to believe from their infancy. Perhaps I
am too sensitive on this point, if such a thing could be, but it is the awful wrong which is
being done to our sex that fires my indignation thus. And then there are those poor deluded
'ornamental women' who sanction that outrage on their own dignity by sitting with folded hands,
taking in all the nonsense which is dealt out to them when they should gather up their skirts
and shrink away from you as their inveterate enemies. False faces lead them astray, but there
are others who see behind them."

"Yes, by Jove! And you are one who can see through the hair of a fellow's head. Well, Honor,
it's plain to see, that you and I cannot agree. There's an involuntary performance of 'rhyme'
for you, excuse me for so doing, but I could not withhold it. I said that we don't agree, and
it is true. You are quite too tremendously proper for me, and I am just too 'galoptiously'
awful for you. So begin to maul that wool over again, and I'll go to my respectable office
in the respectable Eastern Block, and there I am sure of finding half-a-dozen eager friends
with their pens behind their ears wheeled around on their office stools, quite ready to hear
all the 'news' that you reject with such dignity."

"Then go. Sow your seed in fertile ground; but if you speak so lightly of any woman in presence
of an office full of men, as you do to me, I cry,--shame on you and your listeners."

She had taken the soft bundle of crochet work in her lap again, and as she bent her indignant
face over its intricate stitches, Guy could not help acknowledging to himself, that this was
the fairest vision man had ever beheld. How was it that her name never crossed his lips in
fun? He would have torn the tongue from its roots before uttering hers in jest. He stood at
the door, with the knob in his hand, trying to extract one word of earnest friendship from
her, but the serious frown never relaxed itself on her brow, and her mouth was set and stern.
He could not stand this. He thought if it was only any other girl--any of Miss Teazle's heroines,
he could pooh-pooh it so easily, but Honor was not one of them at all--his heart told him that.
He left his place at the door and was at her side instantly. She looked quietly up and said
nothing. He felt as though the words would not come, and the wee small voice said "another
time," so he merely reassumed his old way, and said:

"Good morning, Honor. Don't send a fellow off in the blues. Come now, smile just the least
little bit and speed me away with a charitable word." Then the sweet red lips parted, and looking
up from her work, she said:

"I absolve you, Guy. Good morning."

"Well, I'll make hay while the sun shines, and be off, for if I delay a minute I shall have
a dozen more pardons to ask. By, bye!"

He closed the door and was gone, but though his hurried steps brought him further and further
away from the form he loved, yet his thoughts were of her, his heart beat for her, and his
memory dwelt upon each little word she had spoken.

Honor sat as most of us do very often in our lives, with the same smile on her face which had
absolved Guy at parting. If we meet a friend and are pleased, the smile of recognition lingers
on our faces long after he has passed. If we have heard a pleasant word, the gratification
is evident on our countenances, long after the words have died; and the same with unpleasant
or sorrowful things. I suppose our memory is necessarily a slow faculty, and only revives the
expression of our emotion just as that caused by the first experience is dying away. Any one
could tell by Honor's face, that she was thinking of pleasant things. Thence we may know it
was no 'clairvoyant' tendency on the part of Mr. Rayne, that on entering the room the ne moment,
he exclaimed:

"So you're spinning your threads in the sunlight, my pet, are you?"

Honor started--"Sunlight? Yes, I think the sun will be up presently."

"Oh, you distracted child! I am talking of the sunlight of your thoughts." Here both joined
in a hearty laugh, and Mr. Rayne having thrown aside the well dissected Citizen, re-deposited
himself in the arm-chair by Honor's side. He came too to make hay while the sun shone, and
the smile on Honor's face indicated that much.

"You see, that fellow Guy interrupted us just in the beginning of our discourse--but perhaps
it was just as well, for something has since happened that throws a new light on the subject.
With this morning's mail came a document from Turin to me, from your father's bankers, Honor.
It seems from the copy of an original letter written by your father, that he wished to test
my friendship by holding me responsible for his daughter's welfare and comfort, and he therefore
apparently represented you to me as entirely dependent on my bounty. Even as such, it was an
immense gratification to me to take you, and at the risk of all I own nou I could not let you
go, but it seems your diplomatic father--and my best friend--had arranged it so, that if, after
a short period, I had performed the duties of a true friend towards you, supplying you with
the necessary comforts and wants out of my own pocket, that on your birthday at the end of
that time, which is to-day, this document should be forarded to me. The surprising and intensely
gratifying news concerns only you, it makes not the slightest matter to me," and so speaking,
he handed her the least formidable looking letter of a pile of correspondence. She read it
with dilated eyes and confused look generally, and laid it down only with this difference actually
to her, that she had in her own realization, in one short moment been suddenly transformed
from Mr. Rayne's dependent waif into a richly endowed heiress, independent and free. A small
change indeed for Honor Edgeworth. It had not power to chisel in finer style the features of
her handsome face, nor the power to direct into her heart a purer, holier or more worthy sense
of duty than already reigned there. No, it could make her no better. Hers was not a nature
susceptible to the ready influences of evil, and so she experienced none of that material delight
which generally is the result of such a change for the world's ordinary ones. The only gratification
it afforded her was, that now she could repay Mr. Rayne for his untiring kindness, she could
deck Nanette in "decent" attire, and give such little alms as she longed to distribute with
Mr. Rayne's money. She folded the letter carefully back into its primitive creases and handed
it to Mr. Rayne, saying,

"I thought I should have had to repay your unlimited kindness to me by love, sincerity and
gratitude alone; and though this would have been an easy debt to liquidate, so far as my sentiments
went, yet, it seems Providence has not tired of heaping favors upon my head, and I can add
to my other offering this new found treasure. But I think, Mr Rayne, had this gold mine never
opened beneath our feet, we would still be the same to one another, I know"--and as she spoke
she rose and threw herself into the old man's arms--"you, who have been both parents to me
when I was alone and penniless, who surrounded me with comforts and luxuries, cannot now be
cold to me because I no longer need to be dependent. You have made your home and your kind
watchfulness a necessity to me, now will you not let us be the same as ever with one another?
I do not want to be a rich heiress if I must thereby cease to be 'your own Honor,' and 'your
own favorite.'"

The old man's eyes were wet with tears. He pressed the girlish figure close to him and kissed
the fair, flushed cheek.

"We will speak no more of it, darling," he said, "let it be as though nothing had happened,
only you must no longer hesitate to accept the many little favors that, up to this, you persistently
refused-- henceforth I am yours to command when you want something. But, about your debut child,
I want you to consult some one else on that matter, for you must be as fine to look at as all
the rest. You can be ready as soon as you please, for Mrs D'Alberg will be here shortly, I
requested an immediate answer."

Honor looked thoughtfully into the fire. "This is all so strange," she said, "but Destiny is
Destiny, I suppose, and Fate is Fate."

CHAPTER XI.

  "A sadder and a wiser man
  He rose the morrow--morn."
       --Coleridge

"Well, I did not think this at the very worst," Mr. Rayne said over a newly received letter
to Honor. "Here's the long expected news from Guelph, and my cousin says she would find it
so convenient for you to go up, just for a week and she would come back with you. There are
so many things for her to settle, and besides you would see a little bit of life in the meantime.
Now, how in the world are we going to live without sunshine or daylight for a week, eh?"

"Oh, Mr. Rayne, you spoil me! But, does Mrs. D'Alberg really want me to go to her? If it is
not very far away, and you have no particular objection, I think I'd rather like to go."

"Of course you would," echoed the generous words of Henry Rayne, "and why would'nt you? I am
too selfish to live. It will make a nice little trip and you'll feel all the more refreshed
when you get back. But, think of how soon you must go--to-morrow morning at the latest, I tell
you. So, now be active, my dear. Run and tell Nanette to get your things ready, and I'll drop
a note to Guy to come and make himself useful."

Honor bounded off under the influence of the first experience of a new anticipation--that of
shifting the scenes, for no matter how short an act. She was going among new faces for a little
while. What a break in the monotony of her present quiet life.

When the hastily written note reached Guy's boarding-house, he was absent. It was as a rule
rather hard to find Guy when he was wanting; but, I doubt if he ever regretted his absence
more than be did on this particular night. I would not care to shock my innocent readers unnecessarily
by telling the hours that brought Guy Elersley to his room that night, nor the circumstances
that caused him to dream such frightful things through his broken slumber. Some of them either
from having been there before or from close observation could suspect one of Guy's worst failings
at the sight of his dim sleepy eyes, his straggling cravat and half-buttoned coat, as well
as by the thick utterances he hummed to himself, intended no doubt for the familiar strains
of his favorite "Warrior Bold" or "In the Gloaming," but, nevertheless differing from them
as much as they resembled them.

Oh, Guy! who, among your high-toned lady friends on Sparks Street to-morrow will recognize
in you the fast midnight rambler, that the pale winter moon and the cold silent stars see in
you to-night? You, the brilliant one of Ottawa's best drawing-rooms, ejaculating all the hard
words you know, because you can't open the door with a lead pencil, nor find the handle on
the wrong side. How well you have learned the art of veneering your character! Is it then such
a breach of Christian charity to discuss on open pages, Guy Elersley by daylight, and Guy Elersley
by lamplight? Any one given to moralizing, may surely ask the ladies of Ottawa, if they have
ever stopped to think those simple things over. If all their acknowledged purity, dignity and
womanly attraction were worth no more than to lay them within the ready grasp of the sons of
this century of materialism! Do they never realize how infinitely superior they are to the
men of their own days, and do they ever treat them with the contempt and indifference that
are at best their due? If such were indeed the case, woman would be more independent in her
social standing than she is to-day, but, I blush to say it--there are those among Ottawa's
fair ones, who are flattered by the attentions and compliments of such as live these two lives
of daylight and lamp-light;--flattered that an arm should encircle their waists in the dance,
which is unworthy of cleaning the shoes they wear, or sweeping the ground they tread,--flattered
by the attentions and flighty words falling from lips across whose threshold comes the foul
breath of sin and dissipation. Such is the dignity of the youth of our century; such is the
brazen insolence which causes them to establish themselves as the social equals of well bred women.

Oh, for the long sought day of woman's emancipation, when she will be free, in her own right,
to scorn from the pedestal of her superiority, the audacity of the man who shows himself by
daylight to the world to be that high society exacts from him, but whose superficial virtues
set with the evening sun, leaving in their temporary dwelling place, the craving of material
nature to be gratified. Such are the heroes of our popular novels, such are the heroes of our
actual society, such are our male relatives, and yet women seem to be satisfied that things
should remain thus. If every woman would determine within herself to accomplish the whole or
part of the grand mission that is at the mercy of her own hands, how soon would we have cause
to rejoice and thank Providence for the great reformation in morals which must be a necessary
consequence of such a determination?

Perhaps it is wandering too far away from a simple recital, and giving more than its real depth
to the tenor of our Ottawa society, to indulge in this strain. If it be just as pleasant, we
will return to Guy who has gained admission by this time. He goes over to the table that stands
opposite his bedroom door. He has left matches and lamp convenient, and proceeds to light them.
The first thing which attracted his stupid glance was the note in his uncle's handwriting,
lying conspicuously on the white linen cover. But this was, after Guy's nightly carousing--the
most usual thing in the world, and with a word that signified how secondary his uncle's note
was, beside the attempt to reach the bed, he pushed it carelessly aside and proceeded to get
himself out of his clothes as well as his nervous limbs permitted him. We may be a "little
hard" on Guy's species selon the current ideas of justice. We know that many are addressed
through Guy Elersley, and this indirect way is adopted of telling them how far below the mark
of feminine appreciation they fall in attempting to throw dust in our eyes. As if every circumstance
of the times was not calculated to impress more firmly upon us how unworthy the world is becoming
of us. We may hold out our hands one to another, for there is none else worthy to give the
responsive grasp. Young men of the nineteenth century, be assured that because you are tolerated
in society, and because ladies deign to blend their lives in a measure with yours, it does
not follow that they approve of the masques you are wearing, and which deceive yourselves far
more than they do others. On the contrary, it foretells the advent of the day of our freedom,
for, in the performance of our respective social duties towards you, we make the last acts
of humiliation to complete the sacrifice before the reward is given us. Of course, if we met
Guy Elersley to-morrow morning, the fetters of society would force us to feign an utter ignorance
of such a mode of living among our gentlemen friends. We must take it for granted that from
sunset till sunrise, Guy was not "sleeping the sleep of the Bacchanal," and we need not fear
that he will betray himself.

With aching head and parched lips, Guy Elersley opened his eyes on the tell-tale surroundings
of his room the morning after "the night before." With the first break of sleep in the quivering
of his lashes memory was at work. So long as she remains a faithful servant at all, her mission
is waylaying us early and late. From the confused state of things around him, Guy gathered
that he must have reached his resting place under difficulties, his feet reposed luxuriantly
on the downy pillows, while his poor head was resting on the spare end of Mrs Best's second
worst mattress. That his vest lay in an unpretending heap on the floor, from which his watch
had rolled resignedly into an old slipper, did not disconcert him so much as his having left
his new gaiters where the household puppy conveniently got at them destroying any possibility
of a future reunion of their parts.

If a man ever wishes to repent of his yesterdays, let him contemplate them all over during
his waking hours in the morning. Then, indeed, is his time. He becomes ashamed before the monotonous
rose-bushes that speck the wall, and as his wandering orbs scan the picture-nails and the cobwebs
in search of distraction, he will realize the necessity of amendment more fully than the eloquence
of a multitude could paint it. It was the weariness of this new realization that caused Guy
to stretch out his hand for his uncle's neglected note of last night, seeking as he thought,
something therein that need not remind a fellow of what he knew "deuced" well already. As his
glance fell on the page, his brow contracted into a slow puzzled look, and as he finished the
last word he started up. It was now after nine o'clock and Honor was far on her journey. The
note was dated 5 p.m. He would have received it time enough if he had not squandered away his
hours from his room, but now she was gone and there was no excuse he could offer to satisfy
himself.

It is necessary that we should part from some friends to know how much we love them, and this
necessity visited Guy in its most cruel phase. Poor fellow!--After all, he was so much the
victim of circumstances. The consciousness of his own weakness only made him weaker, and his
knowledge of the infidelity and inconsistency in his character only caused him to resist, as
useless, impulses towards stability and firmness. Now he regretted with his whole soul that
he had not come home like any christian, at a proper bed-time, then he would have learned the
news soon enough to have bade her good-bye. Even if he had read it when he saw it for the first
time, the news it bore would have dispelled the mist that other influences had gathered around
his senses. What could he do now? He must make the best of a very bad case and go immediately
to his uncle's house where he expected to hear some tidings of the girl he loved.

If any man ever looked thoroughly disgusted with himself in his life, Guy Elersley surely did,
on this eventful morning, as he sauntered along from his boarding-house to Mr. Rayne's. His
sentiments were most likely those that form an item of the very smallest experience, when its
victim is forced to realize that he has made a very unwilling sacrifice voluntarily; that he
himself is the remote, proximate, direct and indirect cause of his own misfortune. Still, this
was the only room for hope left in Guy. So long as a man condemns himself before his own tribunal,
making of his inner self the truthful witness and impartial judge, those interested in his
spiritual welfare may know that there is yet a lingering susceptibility, to a better influence
than that which caused him to do wrong. That such a susceptibility does yet flicker in the
hearts of Ottawa's young sons, I have reason to hope; for there is an impulse in some of us
that leads us into the minds and souls of one another, there to deposit a judgment or a sympathy,
or whatever our nature suggests at sight of our neighbor's failings. In obeying such an impulse
one can easily peer through the conventional veil which screens such phases of human character
under the meaningless appellations of "Blues," or "Indisposition." They are truly the visible
effect of a secret hidden cause, which is sometimes brought to the surface by the magnetic
power of one who has studied human faces and characters. So, en passant, it may be as well
to kindly suggest to such "blue" friends that it were often better to lay bare the veritable
cause of such a gloomy feeling, for those before whom they wear the veil are surely persons
whose opinion they esteem or whose judgment they fear, and if so they are not so easily blinded
as one would think, their deception only serves to render them still more odious. Yet there
is no blame to Guy for having gone on his way this morning in such a mood. When he met Miss
Dash at the first crossing it was the most natural thing in the world for him to say, "this
'dyspeptic' feeling causes it all," when she stared in open-eyed wonder at his worn out face
and variegated eyes. It was breakfast-time when he closed his uncle's door after him, and he
was sure to obtain tete-a-tete alone with the old man, now that Honor was gone, but he did
not think the picture would have changed, into such a sad one as presented itself to his eyes
when he opened the door of the breakfast-room. Mr. Rayne was sitting moodily in his chair,
staring vacantly at his untasted meal, with his hands folded listlessly before him. At the
sound of a voice he smiled and started, but on seeing the intruder the brightness died out
again, and he only said, "Good-morning, my boy," in a very quiet tone.

"So you are all alone once more, uncle," said Guy, trying to make the best attempt he could
under the circumstances, "Honor's flight was rather sudden, wasn't it?"

"Too sudden to secure your services when they were needed, I think."

"Well, yes, uncle, I was not in when your note came, and only saw it this morning for the first
time, when it was too late to do anything, but I am really sorry. Will she not be back in a
day or two?"

"I hope so. I hope so," Mr. Rayne answered, more to himself than to Guy. "I had grown quite
accustomed to the darling."

"Yes, so had I," said Guy, under his moustache, "but" (aloud) "the little trip will make quite
a change for her, and the time won't be long until her return."

A few more very laconic remarks followed, and then Guy began to think it was rather stupid,
and in consequence made a move towards the door. This made matters a little brighter, for Mr.
Rayne became more animated, and turning his chair towards the receding figure of his nephew, said,

"Hold on a minute, Guy, I want you before you go," and to lessen the moments of waiting, he
raised his cup and drank it at one long draught, then he rose and led Guy into the cosy library
opposite.

Whenever Mr. Rayne was about to impose any new duty on his nephew, he assumed a stern air that
showed a tendency towards the imperative, rather than the interrogative. He had never said,
"Guy, will you do this or that," it was always, "Guy, I wish you to do this--you must do such
a thing for me," and accustomed to the like from his early youth, Guy never sought to hesitate,
or dispute his uncle's will in anything. Whenever Mr. Rayne pushed his glasses up on his forehead
and began by saying, "I am getting old and work is no longer light," Guy recognised the avant-coureur
of some new duty devolving upon him, and this was a phase of this morning's experience.

"I wish copies made of all these documents, Guy," said his uncle in a business tone, while
one hand rested on a prosy looking heap of legal forms, "and as it is serious work I cannot
leave it out of my possession, so you must come in during your spare hours, now that Honor
is away, and help me to write them over; it will keep us both busy during her absence, and
leave us free on her return. I will expect you this evening before tea, and to make matters
more convenient for all hands, I wish you to remain here until Honor's return. You may occupy
the spare room, and time will not be quite so dull as otherwise."

"Very well, uncle," said Guy; but oh! what a hornble misery crept into his heart at the mention
of such a thing. Visions of all the most outrageous difficulties possible, in the career of
a fast young man, rose before his mind, and the consciousness of his lack of courage caused
a shudder to pass through his frame. It must have been apparent, that Mr. Rayne entertained
suspicions of this "boy," and resolved to stand between him and immediate danger if he could.
This might have been Guy's salvation, if his eyes had not been blinded by the delusive flattery
of the world to which he belonged. He only bowed under it as the most weighty of his crosses,
and trusted to that fate that often shields the wrong-doer from observation, to turn the tables
in his favor.

It was painfully evident to Guy this morning, that his uncle was in very stern humor, and that
nothing but square dealing on his own part could sustain even the trembling balance that existed
between them. One word, one little wrong deed now, and Guy fancied the fertile looking future
realizing itself to him in that awful destitution which haunts the average civil servant, who
has no pillar of pedigree to sustain him. It was the hardest policy of his life, to gather
all his visible deeds under the approval of his good uncle, and yet he tried to bear these
things patiently as one might a kick from the King. He saw a fair vision among the "to be's,"
if he behaved himself, and is not such an aim as that, the only one in the sunset of the nineteenth
century?

Feeling "all over," as he thought, he left his uncle's house that morning filled with a firmer
conviction than ever, that he was one of the world's unfortunates. Try as hard as we will,
it is tough work living up to other people's principles, for now and then the most clever of
us fail to interpret them aright and accordingly commit a fault.

It seemed rather cruel to poor Guy, as he sauntered along towards his office, that the plans
he had so easily made for the next fortnight's distraction, should be frustrated thus in a
moment. It is so "deuced" hard for a conceited sensitive fellow to bear the taunts of his more
free and independent companions, when he is forced to decline their invitation to "come along."
It is not natural that a man, able to stand his ground against evil counsellors, showing himself
morally superior to them, should then fear their insolent remarks, or their unchristian judgment.
We know it, each one for himself, that when we jibe or ridicule a good impulse in another,
it is evidence of our weakness and incapacity to experience the same feeling ourselves, and
it is the momentary hatred of envy that suggests a taunt or a mocking word on the firm resolution
of our companion. But unless the conscience of youth be not obliterated now while it is so
weak, the world fears there can be no other such chance again, and what else can hush its "wee
small voice," like the ring of sarcasm or the jeering of brave cowards?

Guy's was one of those pliable souls that bent under every influence alike. How then, could
he endure the scorn of "the boys" when he must tell them that his spare moments were already
occupied? He began to miss Honor already, because one word from her would have spurred him
on to duty; but, like his fate, she must be away when he needed her most. What must she have
thought of his absence at the hour of her departure? She would, no doubt, accept it as an indisputable
proof of his indifference to her, and this scalded his sensitive nature more than anything.

Accompanied by these refreshing cogitations, Guy reached his comfortable office, but oh "how
painfully plain an index to his troubled soul was his worried face." All day he stumbled over
office stools, spilt ink, made countless mistakes in his calculations, and, as a consequence,
smashed pens and used unsparingly all those little monosyllables that seem to grow spontaneously
on the tongue's end of an enraged man. His difficulties were beginning in earnest; he had consented
to join a party of merry-makers to drive to Aylmer that night, and he could see no possible
outlet through which he might escape. He had thought of seeing some of the "fellows" at four
o'clock, and of telling them in some off-hand way of his change of determination; but even
this little gratification was denied him, for emerging from his office door, the first one
he came across was Mr. Rayne. There was that hopeless resignation, which dire necessity forces,
in the very tone of Guy's voice as he addressed his uncle, but now, whether he would or not
he must yield. Every circumstance showed him plainly how fettered he really was, although his
spirit yearned to belong in gain as well as m name, to that band of "Acephah" that walked the
streets of Ottawa, free men under their unpaid-for ulsters and seal caps. No wonder the conversation
between Guy and his uncle consisted of a series of laconic monosyllables. The one was drinking
the bitter dregs of life's awful difficulties; the other absent-minded and sad, thinking of
the dear absent one who held within her hands the happiness of his life.

Who would have interpreted these things on this bright sunny afternoon as Mr. Rayne and his
nephew walked side by side along Sparks Street, through the gay, bustling crowd of pedestrians
and sleighs? The young ladies went home and told one another that they had met Guy Elersley,
and that he looked "just splendid," whilst all the time his brain was on fire from trying to
solve his dilemma.

They were reaching Mr. Rayne's house, and Guy, accumulating all the moral courage of his soul,
resolved to do the worst. He would go willingly to work and try to find a pleasure in honest
labor for Honor's sake. He was realizing, in spite of himself, the truth that had dawned on
"Adam Bede," that "all passion becomes strength when it has an outlet from the narrow limits
of our personal lot, in the labor of our right arm, the cunning of our right hand, or the still
creative activity of our thought." Had he only but had the whisper of encouragement from any
one he esteemed while in this vacillating mood, that would indeed have been a turning point
in his career, but it seemed that a good impulse for Guy Elersley vaticinated infallibly an
evil action. The fact that he had tried to vanquish himself by going willingly and deliberately
to work, only waylaid him with numberless enticing temptations, alluring him on to the forbidden
pleasures upon which he had turned his back. What is there so resistless and so fatally fascinating
in those pastimes which are indulged in after nightfall by our young men? Is it the staunch
proof that it seems to be, of the entire annihilation of conscience? Is it so certainly the
spiritual death that it seems to be?--and if so, what sad, sad wreck! Is there no one whose
influence can lead those stray sheep back to the fold? No mother, no sister, no lady love to
plead as a woman's eloquence alone can plead, in behalf of that fair young soul exposed to
every danger? Is there no volume among that superb collection of books open to all Ottawaites,
that would not satisfy you, young foolish souls, by your midnight coals, burning your midnight
oils, if you must needs burn both? What advantage is there in facing every peril of the material
and spiritual darkness, that you must make a daily habit thereof? Is not this the case, that
you never entered upon such a course of life alone? Some one was there who beckoned you on
his way. Some one pooh-poohed your scruples, and smoothed down with false words the obstacles
that your conscience raised. You never left your father's house alone to squander the hours
of midnight's sacred silence in wrong doing Then I hope you will never forget the debt of gratitude
you must owe to such a counsellor and friend.

Then comes

  "The tangled web we weave
   When first we practice to deceive."

At first you were a little unfortunate, may be. If you could not reach home without elbowing
some one's pane of glass, or getting into a scrape of a more or less serious nature, you were
helped out of all trouble by those steadfast allies who contributed gladly towards making your
deception a masterpiece of its kind.

After such reflections one is inclined to pity rather than condemn the weakness to which Guy
Elersley resigned himself such a voluntary victim.

When he entered the library in his uncle's house, he began to be comforted by his luxurious
surroundings, the same bright fire burned that Honor loved to see and the easy chairs and soft
rich carpet suggested satisfaction to the most discontented. A few minutes of fussy preparations
and the gloomy twain were immersed in dry business. Apart from the monotonous scratching of
their hurried pens there was but an occassional short remark uttered until the welcome sound
of the tea-bell broke the spell of sullenness that had fallen on both.

After a short but comparatively lively intermission they returned to their papers and re-attacked
them diligently. Poor Guy's heart was beginning to thump. It would soon be eight o'clock, and
it seemed to him in spite of all good arguments to the contrary that "a promise was a promise,"
and that by staying in to-night he was breaking one almost unnecessarily. The minute hand on
the electro-plated clock was fast wending its way towards the half hour after seven, and as
his eyes followed its quick movement he felt a hurried palpitation accompany every second on
its flight to eternity.

Suddenly Mr. Rayne laid down his pen and rested his bald head in his hands. Guy looked up surprised,
and as he did so, his uncle rose from his seat saying. "I have another attack of neuralgia
to-night, Guy, and cannot continue this work as I expected. Try, however, to finish these single
copies for me to-night. I must retire; I am really unable to endure these pains any longer
without rest."

"Indeed uncle, I am very sorry for that," Guy said, but I fear that though it was "malgre lui,"
still there lurked the faintest sense of intense gratification in his heart on hearing these
words. "You certainly will be better in bed uncle, will I help you upstairs."

"Thank you, I'm not so weak as that. Remain here and finish those for me, they will be needed
to-morrow and must be ready."

With these words he turned to leave the room, but just as though through inspiration, he stood
with the half-open door behind him and said in a stern imperative tone,--

"Guy, mind you do not go out this evening; when you are tired writing you will find plenty
of distraction indoors, do you hear?"

"I do, sir," Guy answered coldly, and then the old man closed the door and went up-stairs leaving
his distracted nephew in the wildest of moods.

CHAPTER XII.

  For a sweet voice had whispered hope to me.
    Had through my darkness shed a kindly ray:
  It said "The past is fixed immutably,
    Yet there is comfort in the coming day."
                                     --Household Words

It was a cold stormy blustering day. The fierce north wind was moaning and wailing in piteous
shrieks around the corners, and through the bare swaying branches of the tall elms. It was
a dreary scene to look upon from a car window, and yet it was rather a cheerful face that peered
through the tiny panes into the stormy surroundings outside. Honor was thinking deeply, a medley
of sad and pleasant things, and she smiled and grew pensive alternately. She had thought of
Guy, and of how pleasant it would be after all to have him there beside her, but she did not
trust herself far into the subject. The doubtful halo that encircled all Guy's latest actions
towards her was not the sweetest of memories, and yet this lovely girl would not whisper even
to her own most secret soul, the words, "I love him." It was so girl-like for her to cherish
that secret, and yet not acknowledge it to herself as a secret. She loved to rehearse to herself
in silence every look and word and action of Guy's. She pondered wearily over the ennui of
the hours, when he was not by her, and she longed so much to question herself about the sudden
blushes and heart-beatings, when she recognized his step in the hall, or heard his deep voice
greet her at the door. She knew that his little book with the scribbled verse from "Led Astray"
was very often in her hands when he was not there, and yet when the "little voice" asked "Is
it love?" She hid her face in her hands and said, "Oh no."

All these things she reviewed at leisure on this cold wintry morning, as she was being borne
swiftly on to her destination. She could scarcely get accustomed to the idea that she was the
same Honor Edgeworth, that had come a short time ago, alone and friendless to Mr. Rayne's house.
And as she sped on leaving each dancing drifting snow-flake far behind, she became tangled
up again in the web of fanciful reflections that had so often led her far far away into those
transcendental regions of thought where Venus, and Cupid, and Calliope, and other sister muses
bask in filmy clouds of golden maze. Here she realized among her ideal heroes and heroines,
life as she wished it to be. Perhaps this was why her inclinations were just a little skeptical
when she viewed life in its matter-of-fact phases.

Honor was started from her reverie by a loud long shriek from the engine, and seeing the other
passengers gather up their fragments of baggage she followed suit. A few moments more and they
were ushered into the depot at Guelph. All the usual bustle, talk and confusion characteristic
of railway stations were noticeable here. Omnibus drivers shouted in crescendo the names of
their respective hotels. Poor Honor scarcely knew what to do. Cries of "Royal Hotel," "Windsor
House," "Sleigh Miss," deafened her ears on all sides, but great was her relief when a prim
middle-aged lady accompanied by a half bashful youth stepped up to her smilingly and said:

"My dear I think you are my guest. Miss Edgeworth?"

"That is my name," Honor said, and then the prim lady handed Honor a card inscribed "Mde. Jean
d'Alberg."

They became friends immediately and no wonder under the circumstances. Circumstances have so
much to do with the turn and tide of our busy lives. We can make a friend of the most hideous
creature in an hour of dire necessity.

Honor was just thinking she might have fared so much worse than come across a lady such as
Madame d'Alberg proved to be. To look at her one could read the evidences of worldliness in
her face. This woman had graced many a drawing-room as Senator d'Alberg's wife, and when the
session time called her to the capital many a fair-haired damsel of eighteen summers had envied
the fine face and faultless figure, that had captivated even the fastidious nature of the dignified
Senator.

To-day, although somewhat older, the ordinary critic and observer could still detect no flaw
of age or tendency to fade in the sparkling black eyes and fair delicate complexion. As Honor
saw almost at a first glance, this woman's theory of life began and ended in "self." Not so
much as to exclude any impulse towards sympathy or generosity. By no means--if there remained
anything, after one had satisfied one's own wants, then let that surplus go to the less fortunate,
according to the owners impulse whether limited or great.

In matters less material Madame d'Alberg took as director the great authority of Shakspeare,
and none can tell how many countless times she justified herself by repeating in the most suasory
tone this little extract from Hamlet:

  "This above all to thine own self be true
   And it must follow as the night the day
   Thou cans't not then be false to any man."

This was an end worth attaining surely, and so easily won as by being fair with one's self.

Honor and her new friend chatted gaily all the way. The awkward youth had received instructions
about the baggage. Thus freed from all inconvenience and responsibility, these two became as
conversant and as communicative as if they had known each other for years.

Let it not shock the scrupulous reader to know that, in point of fact, Madame d'Alberg did
not really care a straw for either Henry Rayne or his beautiful protegee, only insomuch as
their existence was conducive to her own personal welfare. It was no effort whatever for her,
to love in that subdued sort of way in which we are expected by the Church to "love our neighbor
as ourselves." To be amiable and agreeable to all was by far more convenient to her than to
play the role of a grumbler, and so long as she could count on her smiles being worth their
representatives in substance to her, her countenance was fairly suffused therewith and her
purse or her mouth open for the proceeds. Such women generally live easily--die easily enough
too, and scarcely ever leave a memory of any sort behind them.

The first points of criticism that suggested themselves to this world-bred woman on seeing
Honor were such as never entered the head of any other acquaintance the girl made before or
after Madame d'Alberg's. This lady, physiognomist from tact and experience, sought to learn
from the expression and features of Honor's countenance, whether their hidden depths held any
of that diplomacy and finesse that are the inevitable characteristics of society's most brilliant
graduates. Not that it would have mattered one iota to this indifferent creature, for she never
interested herself particularly in anyone, but if certain latent tendencies in this girl could
actually be brought to the surface so as to sympathize with her own, would it not be as well
for them to join hands and share the spoils? As yet, however, she thought there was no telling,
she must wait and see.

The drive from the depot was short, and to Honor's great delight the merry sleigh-bells stopped
jingling as they drew up to the neatest and cosiest looking cottage imaginable. The first greeting
on entering was the sight of a roaring fire and the next the intensely gratifying welcome of
cups steaming at the end of a neat but well-spread table.

Honor's own room reminded her somewhat of the one in Ottawa, except that the idea of exquisite
comfort was more pronounced in everything here. In this respect Honor found Madame d'Alberg
different from that other class of society women whose ideas of self-gratification are far
subservient to the requisites of bon-ton and fashion, and who endure heroically the discomfort
of the latest absurdities in articles of toilet and street wear.

This was the only point in which Jean d'Alberg did not acknowledge the tyrannical yoke of society.
Anything that tended to exclude the supreme ease and comfort of her home was discarded by her,
and no one ever dared to find any fault therein.

After a hearty luncheon by the grate fire, Honor and Madame d'Alberg drew up their chairs closer
to the fender and began to talk familiarly. The wind still whistled and shrieked around the
street corners; little blinding atoms of snow drifted violently in the air, and it made one
freeze just to watch the muffled pedestrians as they sped along with their heads bowed against
the sleet and wind, holding their half-frozen ears, stamping their feet or pinching the ends
of their blue noses.

"The day is too stormy for outdoor amusements, my dear," said Jean d'Alberg, as she poked the
fire, "so I must try to distract you as much as possible in the house."

"That will be an easy matter if you like," said Honor, "do but leave me lost in these spacious
cushions, before that cheerful fire, and I can prophesy the treat that is in store for me."

Mde. d'Alberg smiled slowly. She turned and took from a small wicker basket near her a bundle
of misty looking thread and lace, and with her needle in one hand and the end of her thread
between her teeth, she said,

"Whether you know it or not, my dear, you have given me a big peep into your character by that
much of an assertion."

Honor looked suddenly up. She was beginning to feel a little nervous with this cool, calculating,
all-seeing woman. But not to show what she felt, she sank back imperceptibly among the cushions,
and answered, with an effort at in difference,

"I hope I betray my good symptoms first, at least to strangers who are inclined to judge from
appearances."

The elder lady looked interested. Her face wore a half-pleasing, half-teasing expression, but
like Honor she was seeking to veneer the real truth under assumed veils at the same time that
she was dying to draw out the latent phases of her companion's nature.

"The word 'good,'" she said, stitching rapidly, "is such a mysterious one, and has in these
days of general improvement, secured for itself a relative meaning which benefits as many as
it injures, and particularly, as regards one's personal virtues or defects, which are many
or few according to the disposition of the speaker towards the one spoken of. Nevertheless
I must tell you that your tendency to dreaminess, and your exalted ideas of sentiment, are
what mostly constitute the modern young lady. Take those elements out of human life, and one-third
of our fiction volumes crumble on the shelf. Society limps into retirement, for her most prominent
limbs have been amputated. The curtain must drop for good on the stage, for there is no other
part for actors to play in the nineteenth century. Our streets would be almost desolate, except
for fussy businessmen and market women, and those dear few privileged ones, who have the priceless
reputation of being sans coeur."

Honor grew deeply interested. She had not expected to find such a woman as this. Mr. Rayne
had spoken of her as one does of any superannuated person or thing that is always on hand if
wanted. It was such a long time since she had indulged in any such abstract conversations,
that it was with renewed delight she hailed her turn to speak.

"I think it only fair," said she, looking straight into the fire, "that I should take my turn
at interpreting you."

"By all means, my dear; what have you found worth finding?"

"Well, I think," said Honor, speaking slowly and emphatically, "that fifteen or twenty years
ago you could not have spoken those words, for I recognize, as far as a limited observation
and a small experience allow me, the ruin of a heart full of sentiment, under the new structure
that you present to the world to-day, and I also think that at that time you must have felt
a superfluity of emotion. Your craving was for trust, for confidence and love, and the cynicism
of your words now means something like sour grapes. Don't be offended, dear Madame d'Alberg,
the thoughts suggest themselves. If you do not despise sentiment and romance, because they
did not yield you what you sought from them, then I throw up my perception as faulty, and my
judgment as something worse."

She had not moved her eyes from their fixed gaze on the coals, but as no answer came from her
companion, she looked across in expectation. The work lay still in her lap, but her face had
grown dreamy and sad. The sudden silence woke her, and she turned to meet Honor's steadfast
gaze. The thin compressed lips parted slightly in a nervous motion, and Honor thought she could
see a struggle for ascendancy in the workings of the usually calm face. Suddenly, a tear dropped
from each downcast lid, and then the die was cast. Jean d'Alberg drew her chair closer to the
young girl, and clasped her hands over her pile of work; then, looking straight at the fire,
she began--

"Whatever power has inspired you, you have touched a spring over which the cobwebs of wilful
neglect have lain during twenty years. It must be because you are so good and pure, that the
truth, such as I am striving to hide, is so plain to you. You have uttered the secret of my
life in the simple words you spoke. Twenty years ago, I was a young and beautiful girl, with
a heart as full of susceptibilities and a mind as full of ambition as any one of you to-day.
My face was beautiful, and I knew it; my figure was faultless, I knew that too. But vanity
never entered into my heart for a moment. I had a dream that kept such trifling thoughts away.
I wanted to endear myself to some one. I wanted to make some one so utterly dependent on me,
that a separation should be almost death to him. Where I got this crazy longing I could not
tell exactly, but it seized me like a mania. I felt that such must be my fate, or a lifelong
of misery instead. While I was in the heat of this emotion my father told me to prepare myself,
that I was to appear with him at the grand military ball of the season. This was the great
event of the year in our town, for a detachment of British troops always stayed over for the
occasion. The girls of the old country, at that time, were different from what they are now
on this continent. Most of us had, as a rule, those conservative fathers, whose ideas of maidenly
propriety had been handed down to them from unknown ages, and from constant preaching on the
subject, I, like most others, grew into their way of thinking, but I did not, all the same,
ever censure an impulsive girl who, by gratifying her own caprice, violated these stern views
of her father's."

It was getting dark in the little sitting room. At this point of her story Jean d'Alberg rose,
and going over towards the window that faced the west she rolled up the blind to let in the
last wintry rays of the setting sun. Then, coming back, she rang for the maid to bring more
coals, for the fire was dying out.

CHAPTER XIII. I knew full well, as I leaned on the arm of my tall, dignified father that night,
that he recognized in me more strongly than ever, the likeness to his dead wife, my mother.
The only feeling of pride that visited me was when I knew that my father was proud of me as
his daughter and his dead wife's living image. My father was an officer in the --th regiment
and, as a matter of course, I was to be treated with more than ordinary courtesy. When we entered
the ballroom at the lower end I could hear suppressed whispers on all sides. It was my first
appearance in any public place, and even if I had not been there, all eyes would have been
riveted on my handsome father, who looked the embodiment of manliness and nobility in his regimentals.
Perhaps it was the haughty tone of his voice, when he introduced his 'daughter' to the hostess
of the evening, that caused them to look upon me with no little wonder. Any way I became painfully
conscious that we were isolated, as it were, from all the others, and the blush of confusion
and excitement that suffused my face, was, as they told me afterwards, my finest feature. I
had scarcely finished paying my respects to the hostess, when my father was surrounded by friends
who greeted him earnestly, yet distantly. To each of these I was presented in turn, and agreed
to dance once with each of them.

"But I had not yet ceased to feel that nervous presentiment that had haunted me all the evening.
Suddenly, the low, sweet strains of a waltz vibrated through the room, and gay, laughing couples
wheeled off into its dizzy maze. Among my many partners, none had secured the first waltz and
I was beginning to congratulate myself that I could take a good view of everything and everybody
before commencing my first dance. While I was scanning the room--'

Here a large coal fell into the ashes causing both ladies to start. Madame d'Alberg poked the
glowing embers into a cheerful blaze, and moved closer to the work-table, and as her fingers
traced imaginary patterns on its surface, she resumed her story in the same sad monotonous voice.

"I said I raised my eyes to scan the room, but as I did so the blush faded quickly out of my
face, and a cold shiver crept through me. I felt for the first time the sensation which all
persons experience at some interval in their lives. It was the same as when we know without
looking, that someone is watching our movements, the same that causes us to feel the approach
of someone, though we may have been persuaded that such a one was far away. I felt that I was
being stared at, and following a sudden impulse, I looked towards the shaded recess of a large
window, and there I saw the tall figure of a man dressed in uniform, with medals and stars
upon his breast; his eyes, the largest, deepest, and most passionate blue I have ever seen,
were riveted upon me. As soon as he perceived that I was conscious of his attention he left
the recess, and though my eyes did not follow him, I felt that his every step brought him closer
to where we stood. At last my heart seemed to give one great leap, for I heard him address
my father in a low sad voice full of meaning and pathos. The next instant I was bowing at the
sound of both our names, to the handsome stranger. The first glances we exchanged must have
told a tale, for I read in the limitless depths of his sad blue eyes, all that mysterious,
silent pain that entreats and commands a woman's sympathy; he in his turn must have seen in
mine the ready response to the calm pleading of his own.

"I cannot remember the first words that passed between us. It was the mute language of soul
speaking unto soul that had charmed me, and the next thing I realized was, that we had glided
in with the laughing throng of merry dancers, among them, but not of them.

"Our steps suited exactly, and as fate would have it, the music was the dreamiest and most
suggestive I had ever heard. We never spoke a word, but he must have felt my heart throbbing
against his breast, like a captive bird, struggling for its freedom. For once, when all was
excitement and pleasure, he pressed my hand ever so little, and I felt his warm breath very
near my flushed cheek. All the emotion that had ever rested latent within me, struggled through
the fetters that moment, and I felt that now I loved, madly and hopelessly, and that as it
had all been born of a second, so might one other second break my heart.

"While such reflections chased one another through my confused brain, my partner led me mechanically
into the long narrow conservatory to the left. Outlines of rich and delicately fragrant plants
were visible in the soft hazy light that pervaded the spot, and we were near enough to the
ball room to hear the subdued strains of orchestra music that yet filled the air. I dared not
trust myself to silence, so I said, trying to assume the most indifferent tone.

"'How pleasant it is in here!'

"I'll never forget the distracted far-away look in his eyes as he answered in that dangerously,
low, sweet voice.

"'Pleasant? Yes, when the heart is young and untried, all that is beautiful touches it with
pleasure, but the heart that is withered and dead, gets its sweetest pain from the very same
source.'

"To say I did not understand him would not be quite true. We English girls, who have lived
with stern fathers, and with no mother for the best part of our lives, seem to learn by intuition,
the saddest phases of a life's experience. We personify the heroes of our old books, until
the worst of written fates, become as natural to us as though such had been items of our own
existence. And so I knew immediately, that this man's life had been blighted bitterly. Some
awful storm cloud had shaded the sunniest portion of his life, and the memory of that affliction
would cast an immortal gloom over the rest.

"After he had uttered those strange words he looked calmly into my face. What could I do? I
had too often persuaded myself that a woman is the weakest of all things, under the influence
of a first love I could summon no moral courage now to my assistance, and, childlike, I thought
this great, sad looking man would never betray to another how efficaciously he had worked his
influence over me. Yielding to these resistless impulses, I drew a little closer to his stalwart
form, and then he took my hand in both of his, and I could not help showing what all the passion
of a lifetime was, when concentrated into one awful moment of existence. I only looked up into
those full dreamy eyes, and said, 'Why are you so sad?'

"There must have been in those few words, eloquence enough to teach even his heart the truth,
for he rose, and stooping over me, he said in a voice that sounded like a sigh, 'I am sad for
the same reason that you will cause others to be some day, if not more careful and land. Do
not sadden and ruin as worthy a heart as mine.' Then before I realized my position, there was
but the memory in my heart of his lips having touched mine, followed by the feeling of secret
dread and horror, that sprung from the awe in which I stood, of my father. I woke suddenly
from the listless apathy that came over me. I looked up with all the emotion of fear, excitement
and love visible in my face, looked to find the pale angry countenance of my father before
me, with all the insulted dignity and slighted authority he felt, pictured therein.

"He did not say much just then. He trusted to the power of his look to wither the heart within
me. He told me sternly, to procure my wraps, that I must leave immediately, we could pass out
unnoticed by the side door. In a few moments we were in our carriage, rolling in solemn silence
along the road that led to our homestead. My father spoke not a word, and I could not imagine
any fate ill enough to befall me, before his wrath would subside. I planned no excuses; I promised
myself not to vacillate in any way when accused, I knew that neither attempt would blind my
rigid parent for an instant. When we reached our home, my father with all his usual courtesy,
helped me to dismount, and gathering my superfluous wraps himself, he gave me his arm and led
me into the house. But all this only foreboded the determination, changeless and cruel, that
comes from the cold deliberate anger of a just, stern man. When I reached my room, I heard
the bell rung for Donnelly, our old housekeeper, and then my heart quaked in earnest with its
fearful presentiment. I could not stand it any longer, so I stole down stairs, dressed as I
was in my white brocaded ball-dress, and hid myself behind the folding-doors that stood half
open between the drawing-room, which was in darkness, and my father's study, where a single
gas-jet was lighting. I had scarcely gathered in my skirts in breathless terror, when I heard
the cold, sonorous voice of my father speaking in low grave tones. Our faithful old housekeeper
standing by him, looked scared and white. I strained my ears to overhear the conversation,
but failed to do so. Only as the old servant passed out I heard her say, 'It is not for me
to dictate sir, but I hope you'll think better of this before it is too late--for her dead
mother's sake.'

"I was mortified beyond expression. A servant was pleading for me, before my own father, and
he refusing to listen! No wonder I felt the blood rushing hotly to my face. No wonder that
I was too proud to wait quietly there for him to punish me at will. He had been severe and
exacting all his life, but there was a limit to his authority. The very worst possible anticipations
crowded into my brain, when I saw the tears falling unrestrained from poor Donnelly's eyes,
as she turned to leave the man with whom all remonstrance was vain. I stole out from my hiding-place
again, and on reaching the hall I saw the bundle of shawls my father had carried in for me.
A sudden impulse inspired me, I wrapped myself in their woollen folds as best I could, I turned
the great bolts of the front door noiselessly, and went out into the cold, chilly starlight,
without a friend or a home, shivering, and not having where to lay my head."

Here she paused, and the intense malice and scorn that sparkled in her fine black eyes almost
frightened Honor Edgeworth. When she resumed her story, her tone was more calm and subdued.

"I walked on," she continued, "until my feet and hands were numb with cold. The north-east
wind pierced its bitterness through my bared breast; I pulled the shawl tighter around me,
clutching as I did so, a circlet of diamonds, that would have purchased all the comforts in
the land for me, and yet I was alone and freezing. He was comfortable and warm, whose cruelty
had driven me into the street, and yet I was his own flesh and blood. He could listen to the
wailing of the winter wind, and know that it was the pitiful cry of his child--his daughter,
and yet remain unmoved. It was then I missed the tender solicitude of a mother, and I looked
up into the cold silence of the stars, seeking in their still, watchful expression, some stimulus,
for I thought I must go mad, or lie down to die on the earth's frozen bosom. I did not rashly
censure anyone for my misfortune, but that night the coldness and cruelty of life, as it unravelled
itself to me, blighted every womanly sentiment within my heart. From that moment dates the
cynicism that marked my after life. My old self died out, and the flickering flame that started
afresh into existence, was no longer the quiet subdued one of older days I had passed from
a gay happy girl, into a hardened reckless woman, and I have never regretted it.

"Cold, and miserable, and friendless, I went in search of a refuge, to an old nurse of mine,
who lived at a short distance from the spot to which I had wandered. I reached the house and
looked in the narrow window. A greasy looking candle burned on the rough table, casting flickering
shadows around the low ceiling and walls, over the pewter dishes and shining delf. It was a
kind of comfort to my poor heart, when I saw old Nanny herself, seated on a rocking chair before
the fire. I can never forget the expression of genuine horror that covered the old creature's
face, as she saw me at the door of her little cottage, shivering in my ball dress.

"'Is it Miss Jean?' she said, with both hands up in consternation, 'sure I declare its more
like the ghost of our dead sweet mother comin' to me this blessed night, as I just sat thinkin
of her.'

"In silence I entered and crouched by Nanny's cheerful fire. Great Heavens! as I review the
agony and pain of those moments of my existence, I wonder that I ever survived it. I did all
that was left me under the circumstances. I made a truthful declaration to Nanny and then left
it to her to do what she wished with me--but I weary you child, with these details," Mde. d'Albert
said, hesitating slightly. But Honor, with the flush of excitement on her cheek, begged of
her companion to continue. Thus pressed, she proceeded "Whether it was Nanny's intention to
befriend me or not, I was thrust upon her, for a slow fever followed the chills and shivering
that had seized me, and for seven long weeks I lay between life and death on Nanny's neat old
bed. On the third morning of the seventh week I regained consciousness, experiencing all that
vacant wonder at the strange surroundings of Nanny's little room. My memory was struggling
with the confusion and exhaustion, brought on by my illness, but I did not care to think. I
turned my head peevishly away, and closed my eyes again. When next I opened them it was growing
dusk, large grey shadows were trooping out over the little room, leaving but the outlines of
Nanny's old-fashioned furniture, visible through their mist. A small, broad clock was ticking
out its monotonous notes from the mantle-piece, and the crackling noise of the fire somewhat
relieved the great stillness.

"While I was thinking, Nanny's stooped figure cast a shadow across the doorway, and came stealthily
over to my bed. I can yet see the look of relief and thanksgiving that came into her dear old
face, when she saw that I recognized her. She bent over me smiling, and I stretched out my
arms and clasped them around her neck. That night she sat at the foot of my bed, and we talked
matters over. Despite all her arguments and entreaties to the contrary, I was determined to
leave her as soon as my health allowed me. In the course of our conversation, Nanny alluded
to the night of my separation from my father, to see how it would affect me. As I never changed
nor moved a muscle, she came nearer and knelt before me. I knew by the strange look on her
kind old face, that there were words on her tongue's end, awaiting utterance.

"'What is it, Nanny?' I said, 'speak it out, there is nothing now that can wound my heart--it
is free to the worst treatment of fate. It is like the deserted nest in the tall pine tree.
The summer of its life is over, now the wind may howl around it and the cold snowflakes fill
it up. The birds it once cherished have deserted it, and left it to its fate alone.'

"Poor Nanny's eyes were overflowing, as with a faltering voice she said,

"'O, my poor child, to think your mother's daughter should ever come to this! But, there now,
like a good girl, don't talk like that; it'll all blow over some day, and ye'll go back to
the old house where I nursed you in my arms a tiny thing, and your mother before you, Now the
big, tall man is gone far away, the troubles will cease, please God, and all will be right.'

"I looked sharply up 'What big tall man, Nanny?' I asked, and my heart beat violently as I
waited for an answer.

"'Oh, sure,' said she, rising up, 'ye were too weak to tell ye of it, but wait a bit, an' I'll
show ye now.'

"She went over to the old mantle-piece and pulled from behind a curious looking box, a small
envelope. Then, bringing the candle nearer my bed, she handed me the letter and left the room.

"Its contents were only what helped me towards action. I had not expected this, and yet it
had not surprised me in the least. It informed me that my hero had left for the continent;
that owing to a series of unfortunate events in his early life he had vowed solemnly never
to marry. The worst troubles that had ever befallen him had been on account of a woman he had
loved, and he had voluntarily cast the sex out of his life for evermore. In that letter he
bade me a strange and last farewell."

When Jean d'Alberg finished speaking her face wore an expression of half indifference and half
regret, as though the very last flicker of an old smouldering flame had suddenly darted up,
and then died out in the ashes and the darkness. As the sound of the last echo of her voice
ceased vibrating in the silent room, she awoke from the revival of memory's lethargy, and her
face resumed all its wonted coldness and calmness. She looked at Honor almost suspiciously,
and said in a low breath,

"I cannot explain how I have been coaxed into this confiding mood with you, child as you are."

She seemed to be awakening from a stupid dream, and she was tangled in a strange mystery. Honor
recognized the feeling as a very common one. It is the doubt that often interrupts us in our
confidences, lest the depository of our secret be not a safe one. It is generally a proof of
the importance, greater or less, of what we confide.

Honor sat upright, and womanlike, took both Jean's hands in hers, saying--

"Do not be uneasy; I know your heart. I have not a great experience such as yours, but the
experience of thought and emotion are not unknown to me. You have been miserable, and even
to-day it is not too late to sympathize with you."

Jean d'Alberg laughed--a low, incredulous, skeptical laugh, that half-frightened Honor.

"Do not talk of sympathy any more," she said, "such things are soap bubbles, beautiful to look
at from a little distance, but stretch your hand out to grasp them, and what remains? No, no,
Honor, give up that foolish game. You see by my tale that I have gone through the fire. I need
scarcely tell you with what result. I rose from my bed of sickness with a heart of flint and
a will of iron. I worked honorably and honestly to bring myself to this country, where there
is true encouragement for industry and perseverance, to this Canada, which is the pride and
glory of England, and whose arms are extended in an admirable hospitality to the homeless exiles
and fugitives of the world. Here there is labor for all honest hands, and gratification for
all honest hearts, and God cannot but bless and cause to prosper, a country so just, so encouraging
and so kind.

"I was not long here when I first met Mr d'Alberg. He seemed taken with me, but my heart felt
not the slightest passing emotion towards him. In the end he became satisfied to accept me
as I was, and though I never wore out my sleeves caressing him, still I made him a tolerably
good wife, until death wooed and won him from me, leaving me to live on the plenty he had accumulated
in a lifetime. I am now neither happy nor miserable, I neither despair nor hope, I am waiting
for time to do its best or worst, I am prepared for either. Life or death offer me equal fascinations,
I seek nothing but what chance sends me, I have comforts, and in my way I enjoy them, that
is all I want. Let me give you now one word of advice; live, act, and die, independently of
every other person and circumstance but yourself and your own immediate concerns, for the mask
of life is very deceptive, and we are not always strong enough to bear the stroke when it falls."

A heavy sigh followed these last words and then all was over. The long, intricate story of
a lifetime, had been breathed out. The shadows of the wintry evening were trooping noiselessly
from the corners of the room, and to the quiet observer there was nothing extraordinary to
be read from the surroundings. Honor looked serious, but this was nothing new with her. Jean
d'Alberg looked sadder than usual, though not with such a bitter sadness as one finds in the
face of an ordinary heroine, who reviews the mockeries of her past for another woman. Were
the verdict just, it should call them both sensible women.

It seemed such an unnatural and inconsistent sound when the demure old woman-servant appeared
in the doorway and announced supper.

But these two women rose and went to the dining-room as mechanically as though they had just
been discussing the last "poke" bonnet or Mother Hubbard mantle, in the most usual way imaginable.
However, a new tie bound them together now, and though no direct allusion, was afterwards made
by either party to the strange narrative, yet their sympathy so strong, though new-born, manifested
itself in the look and actions of each, and they became what the world called "staunch friends."

CHAPTER XIV.

  "Would you had thought twice,
  Ah! if you had but follow'd my advice."
                                     --Byron.

We left Guy in Mr. Rayne's study, in sore trouble as to how he could evade the task set him,
and join his rioting friends in their proposed amusement. He scratched his head and made countless
agonizing grimaces; he walked the room in long strides, until his patience had reached an almost
impossible limit. Then he thought better of it, and decided to hold a calm, cool and collected
council with himself. It was plain to his one-sided judgment that he was called upon to act,
and to act immediately. But this was easier said than done. It is simple enough for a fellow
to strike splendid chords on the piano, merely by ear, or in a moment of impromptu genius he
may construct some wonderful little piece of mechanism; Guy felt that he could achieve countless
feats such as these, but he'd be blessed if he could master a double-locked window, or door,
through any innate talent, on a dark night, when every one is just asleep sound enough to start
at the slightest noise. He had persuaded himself, by means of such fallacies, as come unbidden
to the susceptible heart in the hour of temptation, that he must go out to-night by fair means
or foul. Once decided, he did not hesitate to act, every one had retired, and surely he might
steal out unobserved. The chances were he could get back the same way, and there would be nothing
more about his little escapade. Noiselessly, stealthily, he collected the articles of his street
wear, and rolling them up in a bundle, laid them by the window. Then nervously, and fearfully,
he began the work of undoing the fierce looking bolt over the window. Every one of those queer
little noises, the voices of the night, seemed to Guy the words of his uncle reproaching him
with his disobedience. Once as he was just about to raise the lower part of the window, a coal
gave away in the grate, and the rattle that followed its fall made him quake with fear.

Finally all was silent as Guy held his breath in eager listening, and making a desperate attempt
he lifted the ponderous frame slowly and secured it above. Directly under it was the roof of
a small balcony that shaded the side of the house. In the summer time it was covered with green
vines, which climbed to the very top, but now the stiff withered leaves and dry branches, rustled
and cracked in a horrible way as Guy threw down first his bundle, and then proceeded to follow
it himself "the devils' children, have the devils' luck," it is said, and it certainly often
looks as if that luck was the luckiest of all.

Without scratch, or hindrance of any kind, Elersley reached the ground, and as he buttoned
up his overcoat, matters commenced to look beautifully smooth and easy. He half-expected that
the jolly dogs had started on their trip without him, but he was sure of finding company in
a great many other places besides, if the first failed him. He was emerging in all possible
haste from the gate-way of his uncle's house when he was accosted by the police-man on beat
in that vicinity. Here was a "fix." Guy was almost in despair, and it was only on producing
cards, and letters, and other substantial proofs of his identity that he was left go. He made
a quiet determination to have a good time after such hardships as he had endured, and indeed
his determination did not fall too short of the mark. It would scarcely interest the readers
to follow Guy Elersley any farther than the gloomy street corner to-night; though perhaps many
of them may have often followed his prototype in spirit to such haunts as midnight revellers
frequent. Did we accompany him we would have to tear away that opaque barrier, that many young
polished gentlemen, have built up before the eyes of their day acquaintances; we would have
to call forth tears of bitter bitter anguish, from trusting sorrowing mothers, who are at this
same moment praying God on bended knees, to save their wild wayward boys. We would pierce the
hearts of many pure confiding girls, who are buried in dreams of future happiness, and who
would not dare suspect the awful truths that are born of the midnight hours. There are, therefore,
too many innocent ones interested; too many mothers to wail; too many sisters to bow their
heads in shame; too many young loving hearts that would burst were one to spell out the truth
in legible characters. "They have eyes and they see not," let us mercifully leave them in their
blindness.

Think of all that Guy had encountered to gratify the paltry ambition born of a moment s passionate
desire; a soul so young, almost fresh from the hands of the Creator, and yet to be so covered
with iniquities! How soon he had learned to jest and laugh at good, and to make his religion
the worship of the senses. Saying with Byron,

  "Man being reasonable, must get drunk,
   The best of lift is but intoxication,"

and striving to find in the wine-cup, the satisfaction that our inner nature craves, trying
to feed a soul, hungry for the beauties and perfections of the invisible world, with the poisonous
food of sensuality.

But we have only to look around us intelligently to find the secret out ourselves. Society
is at the acme of sensuality; it has reached the strangest antithetical condition. It is degraded
in its excessive refinement; it is coarse and repulsive in its cultivation, it is ignorant
in its enlightenment. Necessarily all this is the effect of a cause, but such a pitiful cause!
The total wreck of man's best element. The once individual corruption has spread its fearful
contagion until it has become universal; falsehood is disguised in truth, vice in virtue, and
fraud and diplomacy in honesty. If women are expected to live in blissful ignorance of this
movement, that expectation is a crowning audacity, for woman's life is destined to be one of
action, and she will not sacrifice her noble mission through purely human motives. She means
to save her brother, her lover, her husband, her son, even if the effort includes the forfeiture
of her title of woman in the eyes of society.

Thus it is, we have been persuaded into an unpremeditated leniency towards the sterner sex,
blotting out the pictures of their vicious lives, not indeed to spare them in the very least,
but only to save the blush, the sigh, the tear of many a woman whose heart is nigh enough to
breaking without a stronger hand striking the last blow in the cruel work of laying bare the
awful, the contemptible reality which fills their lives with bitterness and heart-burnings.

We will, then, caution and advise without explaining, and call on our co-laborers to make a
grand effort towards reformation, telling them that from the heart of the great cities there
rises a wail of sorrow and desolation, that must fall on their ears like a cry of distress
from the poor suffering stricken ones, that they must rise bravely, spontaneously, and joining
hands they must come nobly to the rescue. It is their lawful, binding duty to reclaim. We must
save from the wreck at least those "little ones" that are growing up around us, "for of such
is the Kingdom of Heaven." Why need they ever know the experience that is drunk in the wine
cup? Why must they, too, walk in the well-printed footsteps of vice that their elders are treading
before them? They must not; they shall not; they dare not! if they have noble women to direct
them, to inspire them with great and holy and generous thoughts, to draw them round the family
fireside, to gratify their eager hearts with innocent amusements that elevate the mind and
bring the soul nearer to God. Where are the mothers now, who, like Blanche of Castile, can
say to their sons, "My child, I would rather see thee dead at my feet than that thou shouldst
offend God mortally." Alas! if in our city alone, mothers were to re-echo that wish and have
it granted, many a strong youth would be laid in his coffin before night!

Mothers and sisters will ask, "What can one woman do by herself?" What good? If every mother
sends a St. Louis to eternity before her, is not that a magnificent influence on society, and
who denies it? Be not discouraged then--withdraw the misplaced sympathies that have been enlisted
by thrilling manuscripts or exciting anecdotes in the cause of missions and religious undertakings
abroad. At home, within your own most intimate circle you have a mighty field for your labors.
Hearts to which you are closely attached are sadly in need of your attention, and while you
are so solicitous in providing for corporal necessities and comforts, forget not the poverty,
the destitution of the moral nature. Wrap the robe of innocence and repentance round the heart
that is naked and susceptible to all the influences of foul weather. Go bravely forth in the
bark of divine charity and save the soul that is tossing helplessly on an angry sea, without
food or support or safety, plunging into irremediable debauchery, as Guy Elersley is to-night.

CHAPTER XV.

  "Praising what is lost
   Makes the remembrance dear."

The cold, cloudy night was just at us period of transition when the misty grey of a foggy morning
was slowly extending over the quiet city. A light fall of snow covered the rough fences and
the bare branches, and a chilly, freezing atmosphere weighed heavily down upon the earth. There
was scarcely a sound to be heard. Now and then the still measured tread of a solitary policeman,
or the pitiful chirp of some homeless sparrow under the eaves of a neighboring house broke
the monotonous silence of the early dawn. But suddenly another sound burst out upon the great
stillness, it was the clock from the Parliament Tower striking the hour of three. The last
vibrations had scarcely died out when the figures of two men, arm-in-arm, came round the corner.
There is a well-known little on dit which says "when two men walk arm-in-arm it is more than
probable that one is sober," but it was the exception and not the rule that applied this morning.
Both were seemingly under the same influence and to the same degree. Though the sight had its
revolting side, still one was also inclined to laugh at the ridiculous appearance they presented.
One was short, but had all the disadvantages of his failing compensated in his breadth. The
other was, as I have often described him before--tall and slim, our brave Guy Elersley. His
features were barely visible, owing to the manner in which he wore his hat, which would willingly
repose on his shoulders only for an occasional jerk upwards from the owner. His affectionate
friend with the pronounced tendency to embonpoint, tried to persuade himself that his head
was really covered, although Guy's hat, to do its most generous, could never shield more than
the extreme top of his hair. Snatches of their conversation only reassure the looker-on of
the absurdity of the situation. The good-natured looking companion, whose name was Morrison
Jones, said in the most usual tone in the world--

"I think we're getting home kind of late, Guy," at which Guy laughed unreasonably long, and
then added,

"Ye-s, he'l (l-ate) me up, by Jove!" and then Jones clapped Guy, saying,

"Here now! no more of this," and both went off into a ridiculous duet of laughter, that sounded
harshly on the stilly air of the peaceful night.

Arrived at the gate of Mr. Rayne's house both young men stood, and Morrison Jones who seemed
a little bit the wiser of the two addressed Guy in fatherly terms.

"Here now, Elersley, this is twice I've seen you home to night and I won't do it any more.
It's time for honest people to be in bed, and I think I'll go to mine."

"Mine-(d) you do," said Guy slamming the gate after him, forgetting his usual precautions in
the unseemly mirth caused by his vulgar attempt at wit. Thus unceremoniously he left his friend
to wander back alone through the dismal street.

Guy was just in that delightful state when a fellow is at peace with all the world, when he
feels ready to share his last shilling with his brother, and thus in perfect good humor, he
was making a drunken attempt to render the "Tar's Farewell." He wandered on blissfully until
he reached the balcony beneath the library window. Here he paused and looked up, but to his
dismay found that the window had been closed since his departure. The muddled state of his
brain prevented him from suspecting that he had been discovered. He only knew that he felt
the cold chills of the dawn all through his frame and he could not help longing for the pillows
and warm blankets above. He walked around to the back of the house and there began to deliberate.
"First--second--yes third" was his window, but he must do it noiselessly for there was danger
in the attempt. By degrees he mounted as far as the window sill in tolerable good humor, singing
"Pull away my boys," and then making another firm clutch on to some other projection he would
squeeze out in a constrained voice, "Pull away." Finally the window was tried and yielded--happy
lot. He resumed his song mixing it up with "Nancy Lee," "And every day," here the window went
up another little bit, for it was very stiff, "when I'm away," and he rested it on his shoulder,
"she'll," here his uncertain balance gave way, and as--"pray for me" escaped his lips in frightened
tones, he stumbled head foremost into the room.

He remained there motionless for a few minutes, wondering what he was doing all in a heap on
the floor, but suddenly the whole appalling nature of his misfortune burst upon him in its
most dreadful aspect There before him, standing erect with a lamp in his hand, was Mr. Rayne,
viewing him with all the withering contempt of a cold stern man. Dazzled at first by the light
he started up from his recumbent position, and as he did so, the reflection of his frightful
appearance greeted him from the mirror opposite.

It would not do to spoil by an attempt at description the conflict of emotions that rent his
breast at that moment. It is far better imagined. He, there on the floor, after failing miserably
in an attempt to steal in, when he had promised his uncle not to go out, his uncle standing
now, petrified, before him, having caught him in the disgraceful act of stealing an entry.
Mr. Rayne looked down upon him with all the bitter contempt an honorable man can show to dishonesty;
he spoke but a few words in a harsh grating tone--

"I see you have contrived to preserve your bones unbroken in this attempt, although you have
shattered your word and my future trust in you beyond reparation."

Then he closed the door and went back to his own room, his face still wearing that painfully
serious expression it had scarcely ever worn before.

Guy began the disagreeable act of gathering himself up as soon as the unpleasant novelty of
his uncle's apparition had died away, and as each succeeding moment forced on him, with his
returning consciousness, the awful reality of his condition, he began to feel that unenviable
sensation of distraction, which is almost akin to despair. He tried to shape things so as they
might form some excuse, but it was miserably vain. Matters were decidedly against him. He had
told his uncle that he would not go out, and the next thing, he is found stumbling in a back
window at three o'clock in the morning. As Guy reviewed the situation over and over in his
perplexed thought, he found how mistaken he had been indeed, thus to fool with the man on whom
he depended for his future welfare. A hearty, though half selfish regret, seized him, and the
broad day broke into the room before he closed his eyes in sleep.

At eight o'clock he woke with a start from very unpleasant dreams, just to face more terrible
and more unpleasant things in reality. Guy showed more moral courage on this occasion than
he had ever before shown in his life. He rose with a fixed determination as to his plan of
action. He dressed with his usual care, and was downstairs before his uncle. Sitting by the
fire in the dining-room, he took up the morning Citizen and began to read. Suddenly the door
opened and the room seemed to fill with the chilly presence of Mr. Rayne. Guy never moved,
yet he felt that the cold piercing glance of his angry relative was upon him. At last, unable
to bear it any longer, he flung the unread paper from him and confronted his uncle. The latter
looked fully ten years older, so serious and stern an expression did his face wear on this
gloomy morning. Guy began to feel sorrier than ever, but the old man merely raised his hand,
and pointing to the doer, said--

"Go, sir, it was not worth your while to spurn me thus, at this period of my years; but you
knew that my principle is 'an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth,' and so, sir, I give
you your reward. Go from my house, for I withdraw all relationship between us; and remember,
I will never forgive this insult to my authority, from one on whom I had lavished all my heart's
affections."

A flush rose to the young man's forehead, and he burned to say something in self-justification,
but his uncle's wrath was great and so he merely answered in a quiet tone,

"As you say, uncle," then before he left the room he turned again, adding, "you have been young
yourself, uncle, and you may regret this precipitation when the memory of your own follies
comes back to you. As I have been the wrong-doer, I accept your sentence, which all the same
cannot cancel in me the remembrance of your many kindnesses." And thus, without a word of farewell
from either, these two parted, that a little while before had been all the world to one another.

CHAPTER XVI.

  "O absence! what a torment wouldst thou prove,
  Wer't not that thy sour leisure gives sweet leave
  To entertain the time with thoughts of love."
                                --Shakespeare.

"And so you think of going back to Ottawa so soon? Well, I suppose the magnet is hidden somewhere,
that draws you towards it," and Jean d'Alberg laughed playfully as she turned to address her
words to Honor, who was yet buried in the snowy linen of her comfortable bed.

Honor clasped her hands over her head and smiled a little sadly, saying:

"Yes, I like Ottawa--more than I thought I did, and if it is just the same to you I think we
need make no longer delay here."

"My dear child," Mrs. d'Alberg said as she brushed a long switch of auburn hair very briskly,
"I thought I explained to you sufficiently that all things are perfectly alike to me. I will
certainly go as soon as you wish, so don't wait for my decision."

"I suppose you will think me capricious and hard to please dear Jean, but somehow I feel a
little lonely for Ottawa."

Jean smiled meaningly as she answered "Well I suppose it is a case of reciprocity at its best
and what you miss most must be what misses you most, therefore it becomes your duty as well
as your pleasure to restore matters to their former equilibrium without further delay."

This was most pleasant encouragement for Honor who could scarcely reconcile herself to pass
another single day away, once she had secured the consent of her hostess. And so for the remainder
of the week these two good friends made all necessary preparations for their proposed journey
on next Monday morning.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was not with the slightest inclination to regret that Honor watched the scenes, familiar
since the last few weeks, fade rapidly now from their view, and yet as each station brought
them closer still to Ottawa, she began to fear that sharp eyes like Madame d'Alberg's would
guess the real reason of such a premature return. However, it was better thus than that she
should be solicitous about Guy, for she knew of what he was capable when the reins of safe
guidance were not drawn in by a sure and steady hand. She understood so easily the nature of
the temptations that assailed him.

The two lady travellers spoke little during the journey. Each was sunk in an interesting reverie,
cogitating and moralising according to their capacities, and the circumstances so entirely
different that caused their thoughts to take the courses they did.

Is it not a gift from God that we are in ourselves a multitude of beings, able to gather ourselves
in from the eyes of the world and mix with a whole host of ideal characters of our imagination.
Perhaps it sounds a selfish thing when spoken, but the writer speaks from personal experience,
having spent many happy hours in self-communion, tasting the full sweetness thereof.

It was a great relief to Honor when she recognized Fitts at the depot awaiting their arrival
with Mr. Rayne's own comfortable sleigh. After all, even in the little events of a life-time,
we can learn how prone we are to cling to old familiar things, that fill our memories with
fondest associations and nestle the closest to our heart's core, and we say with Walter Scott:
"The eye may wish a change, but the heart never."

Honor strove hard to conceal her emotion, almost as much from her own self as from those around
her. Here was one of those little deceptions, which make up the human life. How can we complain
if we are led astray by others when we are so ready to lead ourselves astray?

The meeting between Honor and Mr. Rayne was such as amused Jean d'Alberg considerably. It was
"no wonder," she said, "that some people had to give up all their sentiment when there was
so much wasted by others." As for herself, she was quite content to thrust three of her gloved
fingers into her male cousin's broad palm, greeting him with the coolest "How d'ye do," after
a separation of years.

Honor looked the perfect embodiment of happiness, but though her face beamed with smiles and
her voice laughed out its gayest accents, she was not nearly so free from pain as one might
be led to think. She had expected to find another form among those who had welcomed her back,
her eyes hungered for a smile she could not see, and her poor heart thirsted for a word from
that voice she could not hear. Only to nestle her hand lovingly within his, only to look up
into his big dreamy eyes, only to hear him say, even in his old jesting way, "How we've missed
you," and the dull, sick feeling of disappointment that now filled her heart would melt quickly
away. Maybe he was hiding in some convenient spot waiting to be missed. But why did not some
one speak of him? She dared not trust herself to pronounce his name, and so she went up to
her room without having solved the mystery of his non-appearance.

The reader who has not had the experience, can, without being too imaginative, readily understand
the sentiment that so completely controlled Honor Edgeworth. All the bright, happy illusions
in which she had basked of late had rested on the doubtful, yet hopeful hypothesis that Guy
loved her. How many times she argued against herself, striving to find occasions on which he
had shown any indifference towards her, but in the end, a sweet smile em eloped her face, and
the pleasantest conviction of a young life seemed to thrust itself upon her. She was forced
to tell herself that his eyes never turned from her, until they had looked into hers with that
deep penetrative glance that makes us feel that a soul is looking into another soul. His hand
had never been drawn away from hers until she had detected that slight, almost unwilling pressure
that has only one meaning. When the tongue will not be the outlet of our thought, may we not
have recourse to those inarticulate words that await utterance in the eye's fond depths, and
in the hand's warm pressure?

So Honor asked herself from day to day, and she read her little story in the lines:

  "We spoke not of our love,
   But in our mutual silence it was felt
   In its intense, absorbing happiness."

And after all those days when she had been building up her fairy castle, there came the crisis
of to-day, which shook the faith on which her edifice was built, and laid it in shattered ruins
at her feet. Yet, with this new-born grief at her heart she must go down among those who cared
not, to laugh and be merry, although her voice in her own ears sounded like a long lonely sigh.

She left her room half-an-hour afterwards to repair to the drawing-room, but even as she walked
along the corridors, now half shrouded in the shadows of evening, she expected to be surprised
at every turning by the sudden appearance of Guy. She felt lonelier now though back among the
scenes for which she had longed with a mighty longing, when hundreds of railroad miles had
separated her from them. And then she grew impatient with herself for giving in to appearances.
She who had prided herself so much on her courage to give up so easily now. Stirred by this
new reflection, she ran lightly down the broad oaken stairway and entered the drawing-room,
her face suffused with smiles.

CHAPTER XVII.

  "It is one thing to be tempted,
   Another thing to fall."
                       --Shakespeare.

The clock of the Parliament Tower was pealing out the last stroke of four, and almost simultaneously
there emerged from all three Buildings, young men, old men and middle-aged men, all looking
as weary and hard-worked as civil servants ought to look.

They did not turn back once to gaze on the spot where the long, dreary hours had been spent,
outside that office door life assumed another and an entirely different phase for the government
clerk. Even the memory of the lawyer's clerks and "duns" from various parts of the city were
left buried within these sacred precints until the next day, and one and all with a light step
wended their way down the Square towards Sparks street.

Among the crowd might be noticed a group of young men that are loitering down the broad steps
of the Eastern Block, most of them carry light canes and all of them are smoking good cigars.
As I have said they are young men every one of them, and they are fast young men every one
of them, and they are likewise inconveniently short of money are these good-looking fast young
men. In fact they are a great many things that are too numerous and too uninteresting to mention.

But to Miss Dash and her friend Miss McArgent, who are walking up Wellington street at this
moment, they are the most important group of individuals in the whole human menagerie.

Emily McArgent wants to pretend she does not see them, but Miss Dash would not willingly sacrifice
all those bows for worlds, and so she gives her plush bonnet a graceful toss upwards and brings
it back to its place as her face becomes wreathed with smiles.

"I had to bow, Emily," Bella Dash says, persuasively, "for they saw us, but if I meet Walter
Burnett alone I'll cut him sure. The idea of asking me for the fourth dance last night, and
then spooning it off with that made-up thing that's stopping at the Bramwell's!"

"You mean Miss Elliott," says Emily a little spitefully, "why I find her rather a pretty girl,
and it certainly looks as if Mr Burnett meant to deposit all his wealth at her feet."

"Well, I'm sure," rejoined Miss Bella, in genuine indignation, "she'll soon find out whether
he's in earnest or not. It isn't the first nor the fiftieth time that Walter Burnett has made
girls believe he was in love with them, but anyway," continued Bella, in supreme disgust, "it
is just killing, the way the fellows act in Ottawa, they must always fall in love with strange
girls that visit here, and when the scrape up enough pluck and money to venture on a proposal
they go right off to Montreal or Toronto or somewhere, just as if there were not good enough
for them here."

"Well, my dear, you can't force a man's taste," Emily says in a satisfied tone, and no wonder
that it affects her so little, because there are proposals on all sides of a girl who has money,
is good-looking, and the daughter of an Hon. gentlemen besides.

Miss Dash is beginning to grow a little cynical. She has walked Sparks Street for the last
eight or ten years, not missed a ball or party, or other entertainment during that period,
that could bring her under public notice. She has played Lawn Tennis times and again, and has
even won a Governor-General's prize, she has gone on expeditions of pleasure with Canada's
most distinguished aristocrats and somehow, she is still in "maiden meditation, fancy free."

Occasionally her indignation rises to the surface, and at such times she reveals her sentiments
rather recklessly. She is in this complaining mood to-day, but she half suspects that Miss
McArgent, is inwardly enjoying her discomfiture, and so quickly changes the subject.

"I wonder what has become of Guy Elersley; Emily. do you know?" she asks in a puzzled tone.
"He was not at any of the parties these three weeks. Perhaps he is ill or out of town."

"Couldn't tell you," Emily answers, "but they say he is particularly interested in that young
girl that lives at his uncle's. I daresay she knows something about his non-appearance among
other young ladies. They say she is exceedingly pretty, Bella have you seen her?"

"Yes, I saw her face in church under the ugliest bonnet you ever saw, and I met her on the
Richmond Road the other day, driving Mr Rayne's ponies. She looked reserved, but perhaps she
is a nice girl. Hardly the kind that Guy Elersley would like though, he's such a flirt, he
flirted with me once till mamma thought--"

"How d'ye do," here the talkative young lady interrupted herself to smile on Bob Apley and
Jack Fairmay who were sauntering past them, and for awhile the subject of her interesting flirtation
fell through.

They had walked on as far as the Montreal Bank during this conversation, and here they met
Willie Airey who was talking to a handsome young stranger in military uniform.

The two ladies bowed and passed on.

"Did you see the new arrival," asked Miss Dash, looking questioningly at her friend, "who is
he, I wonder?"

"He looks like some of the Military College fellows," said Emily McArgent, a little more composedly,
"I wish Willie Airey would bring him along."

"Let's pass them again," Bella suggested, "and perhaps he will."

Both young ladies deliberately stood, looked for a minute into the nearest shop window, and
then retraced their steps to pass the handsome stranger again. As soon as they were within
view, Bella cast such admiring eyes on the face that had attracted her so, that the owner of
it, drawing his well scented cigar from his lips, asked his friend.

"I say, Airey, who are those young ladies just passed?"

"Those two, right here," said Airey, following his friend's glance, "are Miss McArgent and
Miss Dash."

"Aw they pretty girls?" pursued Vivian Standish, replacing his Havana in his handsome mouth.

"Well," Airey answered, laughing, "entre nous, you know, Standish, when girls are well off
and help to keep up the whole sport of the season, it is no harm to swear they are lovely,
when you're sure they'll hear it again."

"Oh, of course not! That's a serious duty sometimes. And are those two of your hospitable entertainers?"

"Yes, by Jove they don't let the fun run down. They are jolly to kill time with, but upon my
word, I find the greater number of girls in society here are very insipid. If you can't talk
nonsense to them, they can't talk anything else to you. And though we fellows knock a good
deal of fun out of their parties, etc., still, we've earned it by the time we've talked over
all the little gossip of the day with them, flirted a little, escorted them to some opera or
other, and minded ourselves to say nothing but what was most flattering, when speaking of them."

"Well I should think you had," answered his friend, with a low laugh, "you can get something
more than that, with less trouble, elsewhere."

"Yes, but half a loaf is better than none," rejoined Airey, "and these young ladies are not
so bad when one is in the humor to be amused."

Just as he finished speaking, he noticed a familiar form walking steadily on in front. He clapped
his hand heavily down on the shoulder of him he recognized, and shouted.

"Hallo, Elersley," in genuine surprise.

Guy started and looked around. Poor fellow! Already the traits of sadness were visible in his
handsome face. He only parted his lips slightly as he turned to greet his friend.

"What, in the name of all that's nice, have you been doing with yourself, Guy? We've missed
you awfully."

"I dare say, I have been a little quiet lately," Guy answered. "I am busy at present, but I
don't think I need complain of it. I am feeling better than if I were living more on the streets."

Vivian Standish laughed the laziest sort of drawl.

"Now Elersley, don't take to moralizing--you were never made for it, your face would get so
deuced eloquent looking, that the rest of us would lose all our present chances."

But Guy neither smiled nor spoke, and this set his friends wondering.

On reaching the corner, Will Airey took an arm of each of his companions, and said:

"Come along boys to see the tumblers. Come Elersley."

"Thank you, no," said Guy, releasing his arm, "I am very busy and must get back to my room.
Au plaisir! Good afternoon!" and he was gone.

Willie Airey looked after him and then at Vivian Standish, and gave a long, low whistle.

"There's something up there, by Jove," he said, tossing his head in the direction Guy had taken.
"If Elersley has started a reform, it is time for the retail dealers in 'gratifications' to
close up, for it is a sure sign we must all follow him."

Vivian Standish looked thoughtful for a moment, saying, as he drew a long breath, "I wish to
Heaven we could, for upon my word I'm sick of my own life. Anything would be better than the
existence we fellows try to drag out. I think we are all fools who do not do as Elersley has
done to-night, and I for another refuse the treat with thanks."

So instead of repairing to the familiar marble counter inside a familiar glass door, these
two spoilt darlings of sensuality joined Miss Bella Dash and her friend, and escorted them
home, much to the intense gratification of the first-named young lady.

Without complimenting himself at all on the moral victory he had achieved, Guy Elersley walked
along, sunk in deep reflection. His long strides brought him over many crossings and round
many corners, till at length he stopped before a demure, respectable looking hall door. Thrusting
a key into the lock, he opened it and stepped into the hall, from which place he admitted himself
into a small and silent apartment. Guy's room presented a strange spectacle. Suits of clothes,
shirt boxes, silk handkerchiefs, slippers, boots, ties, books, cigars and a host of other male
appendages, were lying around on the bed, and chairs, and floor, in fact, every available resting
place had been taken advantage of. In the midst of this confusion stood a large Saratoga, wide
open. Guy was evidently "packing up" this time, not because he had been "dunned" for half-a-year's
board, though that would have been no new item in his well-patched-up experience. He was going
away, and I doubt if ever a man felt half so sorry for being "naughty" as Guy Elersley felt
on this particular evening.

One by one he folded away all his possessions into the depths of his trunk, and when at last
the chaotic mass of belongings had crept into a tidy space, he looked around--that last surveying
glance one gives to see that nothing has been left out. Nothing had been left out, so he took
down his overcoat, that was hanging on a peg behind the door, and he began to turn out the pockets.

As he did so the most melancholy of smiles crept over his sad face, and drawing out his hand,
his eyes fell on a small, narrow band of chestnut hair, fastened with a gold clasp, on which
were engraved in large characters the initials, "H. E."

A struggle ensued. The memories he had buried forever, as he thought, surged upon him now in
all their force, and almost overwhelmed him. He took the little bracelet in both his hands
and looked at it tenderly, longingly. He had not thought it possible that any woman could ever
have filled his heart with so much bitterness--the bitterness of remorse and repentance. He
who had flirted and fooled with almost every girl he had met, now felt what it was to have
met with one who was the embodiment of goodness and purity and truth. Her sweet face haunted
him through all his misery. He knew she would be wondering about him, they had been such good
friends. After all, must he go away? Perhaps never to see her again, without knowing whether
she would miss him or not. Oh! at least, pain and sorrow and suffering are not so crushing
when one is loved. It is something when the head is weary with its thoughts of anguish to pillow
it on the sympathizing bosom of one who loves us; it is in the deep, imploring gaze of the
eyes that watch us with a tender solicitude, that one learns an easy lesson of resignation,
it is in the warm pressure of the hand whose power it is to make our pulses throb, that one
gathers the courage for action in the moment of distress, and the who have never been loved
are they who suffer indeed.

Guy felt that he loved Honor Edgeworth in a way which involved his own future happiness, and
yet how could he ascertain whether he might hope or not? Reader, do you know that it is a dreadful
thing to love in silence and in doubt? The victim of such a cruel fate wonders at the mysterious
Providence which dooms him to spend his most violent emotions in a fruitless combat with himself,
gaining no returns for the lavishness of his soul's affection, for if God is love, love is
surely mystery.

Still holding the precious little bracelet in his trembling hands, Guy stood thinking and wondering.
We are too prone, in our cool and passionless moments, to judge harshly of the deeds that are
done under the influence of strong emotion, and for this reason many would condemn Guy for
his weakness on this occasion, for as he stood, the large, round, tears rose to his eyes, and
he tasted for the first time, the over-flowing bitterness of a heart that is tried. At last
he seemed to have learned from this little talisman the proper thing to do, for going over
to the table that stood by the window, he sat down, and drawing a sheet of paper to him, took
his pen between his nervous fingers, and began to write.

"Honor darling, there are a few little words waiting to be said that you must be good enough
to hear. If I spoke them, they would sound like choking sobs, as I write them, know that they
are written with tears. Honor, you cannot but feel what it is that I am longing to say. You
who understand the human heart so well, will not exact that I should break the iron bonds of
a cruel discretion, to let you know that which is often best understood unsaid. By my own folly,
I have placed the barrier of distance between us. I go from this place in a few hours more--where?
God knows. And for what? He likewise alone can tell. But there is a determination in my heart
that was never there before--a stimulant causing it to beat in heavy throbs, and each throb
echoes your name. Maybe you call mine a worthless love, I cannot tell, I wish I could. There
is one little word, my guardian angel, that will fill me with courage if your lips will but
pronounce it. It is "Hope." Remember in any case, that whatever I shall do of right or good
will be on account of your redeeming influence, and that the day on which I first met you is
in my memory, the day of my salvation. If you have any little word of encouragement for me,
my friend, the bearer of this message, will kindly have it sent me. You have taught me to hope
once, Honor, do not crush the passion you have awakened, for though it be vainly--wildly--madly,
I do hope now. I hope and wait.

                          Anxiously and lovingly yours,

                                                       GUY."

It was done. Only a few scratches of his pen to interpret the misery of his soul, but how stiff
it sounded! He has scarcely been able to restrain the gusts of emotions that lay in ready words
on the threshold of his lips. But first he must know whether it was all despair for him in
the doubtful future before pouring out all the fullness of his heart. He had scarcely finished
the last stroke of his letter when a tap was heard at the door, followed by the appearance
of a familiar face, the owner of which entered the room and approached Guy without waiting
for an invitation.

"Hallo! Elersley, what in the name of all that's wonderful are you at now?"

Guy looked suddenly up, but he could not hide the worn and pained expression that covered his
face. His voice assumed a cheerfulness, he was far from feeling as he bade his friend be seated.

"The room is in a queer state," he said, "but you wont mind that."

"Well I mind it a good deal, if it means what it looks like--are you off?

"Yes," answered Guy in a steady tone, "I am leaving Ottawa to-morrow, it's a cursed hole for
a fellow to live in, and I'm sorry I did not find it out before."

"Well, upon my word," said Standish, throwing one leg over the end of Guy's trunk, "you are
a queer fellow. What's going wrong that you are so blue about matters? I thought you were an
enviable sort of fellow, with a snug little prospect before you, and here you are, as down
in the mouth as if you hadn't a hope in the world. What's up old boy?"

Guy turned his back to the window, and leaned against the writing table with both hands.

"Oh! things have gone a little roughly that's all, and I prefer new pastures when there are
troubles in the old ones. I have been a little foolish, I suppose, and now I am reaping my reward."

His face grew pitiably serious as he turned to Vivian saying:

"There's only one little matter I am leaving unsettled, Standish, and will you manage it for
me? I cannot do it myself."

"By all means Elersley. Who is he? The tailor or--"

"Oh nonsense!" interrupted Guy impatiently, "it is nothing of that kind. I have a note here
to be carefully delivered, and I would ask you to see to it for me."

"A young lady eh?" Standish replied good-humoredly, as he took the offered letter. "I thought
there was surely a woman at the bottom of it. Egad!" he continued under his moustache, "we
owe them a long debt of revenge, as the cause of all our grievous and petty wrongs. However,"
this more cheerfully, "you can trust this to me. But talking business, Guy are you actually
going away?"

"And why need it surprise you so," asked Guy, peevishly, "what are the railroads for, if not
to take us miles away from the scenes we love or hate? I certainly am going, and I have never
realized until this moment what I owe to the kind friends I have met during my sojourn here.
If I have solved the bitter mysteries of hidden sinful life, I owe a word of gratitude to some
worthy companions."

Here the memory of all he had lost through his own recklessness, rushed upon him and before
his emotion subsided, he had cursed in bitter terms the false deceitful friends, who had lured
him from his innocence into vice and depravity.

CHAPTER XVIII.

  "With goddess-like demeanour forth she went
    Not unattended, for on her as queen,
  A pomp of winning graces waited still.
    And from about her shot darts of desire
  Into all eyes to wish her still in sight."

"Are the ladies at home?"

"Yes. Will you come inside?" said Fitts, with his politest bow, as he extended an exquisite
little card receiver towards his visitors.

Then came a few moments of great bustle and confusion, and an accumulation of seal-skins and
brocaded silks was ushered into the drawing-room of Mr. Rayne's house.

It was reception day for Aunt Jean and Honor, and both were looking remarkably well in their
most becoming costumes, amid their rich surroundings.

Aunt Jean advanced slightly to meet two ladies as they entered the room, and "How d'ye do?"
passed from one to another, as they deposited their expensive habiliments and precious humanity
into comfortable "fauteuits." Then, while Mrs. d'Alberg tried to sustain a conversation with
the elder and more substantial of the two, the younger lady, though not exceedingly childish,
drew herself towards Honor, and addressed her patronizingly.

Here were people who were actual exclamation points in the social grammar. Their imposing appearance
forced one to hold one's breath, and yet Dame Rumor, who deals in wholesale whispering at Ottawa,
told one, with her hand to her mouth, that not so many years ago, Mr. Atkinson Reid was solving
the mysteries of existence, inside a scarlet shirt, antique trousers, high boots and a conical
straw hat. Only lately, comparatively speaking, had he discarded the one-storey frame house,
in a decidedly un-aristrocratic and objectionable neighborhood, where, nevertheless, fortune
was first pleased to smile benignly on his efforts to keep the old leathern purse well filled,
and where his now precious, airy, nervous, affected daughters first saw their porridge and
potatoes. Things went well in the unpretentious little abode, and by and by Johnny Reid was
able to indulge in sundry luxuries of life, that naturally belonged to a more advanced stage
of civilization than is assumed in the hut of the ordinary shanty-man or wood-cutter. Years
were stealing on, and Ottawa was growing up into a respectable size, and at last one day Johnny
Reid made up his mind to abandon his rough work, since his accumulated wealth now allowed him
to employ substitutes. With these glittering coins, that represented so many strokes of a heavy
axe from a strong arm, and so many drops of sweat from an overheated brow, he would go into
the heart of the city and buy finery and style and accomplishments for Maria, and Nellie, and
Sarah, and the old woman herself as well, and life would bear fruit at last to him, after all
his hard toil and bitter experience.

And this is the origin of one of Ottawa's stateliest mansions of to-day, of some of society's
most dashing heroines, of John Peter's fine livery and cosy seat behind the best team of gilt-harnessed
horses that trot the streets of the Capital, of the best and most sumptuous entertainments
that are given in our hospitable City, and of the honest old gentleman himself who from this
period must be recognized as John Atkinson Reid Esq., with a decade of distinguished antecedents
that every one knows without even hearing their names.

Poor Mrs. Reid dreaded the new responsibilities with which her sudden acquirement of means
threatened her, but her daughters fresh from the most fashionable of Canadian educational establishments,
undertook to supply for maternal deficiencies by checking their untutored mother, the very
many times they deem it necessary, thus making the last epoch of this ill-fated lady's life,
a grand piece of misery and terror.

Just now Miss Sadie Reid is fidgeting nervously with a gold and pearl card case held within
her primrose kids, that are peeping through the outlets of her brocaded Mother Hubbard dolman.
She feels a little ill at ease beside Miss Edgeworth, who is so self-possessed and unapproachable
to the stylish Miss Reid. The conversation is the same immortal collection of exclamations
and enquiries that one hears everywhere in fashionable circles in Ottawa.

Miss Reid remarks in an almost flattering tone: "Why you don't look at all tired, Miss Edgeworth,
after the MacArgent's ball."

"I do not tire myself ever when I can help it," Honor says, "and this occasion came under my
rule. I left early and rested well."

"Did you really?" is the reply. "Well, you see, I couldn't have done that. I was engaged for
every single dance and it would have been 'dreadfully atrocious' if I left before the end.
We dined at Government House last night again and to-night there is an 'at Home' at the Bellemare's,
but I suppose I will meet you there. Really it is 'dreadfully distressing' for one to be obliged
to go out so much. I am sure you are to be envied, Miss Edgeworth, to be able to keep so quiet."

"I wonder that you realize how fortunate I am," said Honor calmly, "I thought our spheres lay
so widely apart that you considered my lot as unfortunate as I do yours."

"Oh! dear no'" said Miss Saidie, "It is 'positively agonizing' to live as we do in such constant
demand; I suppose you will feel it soon though, now you've come out. You have no idea of what
is before you."

"Excuse me, Miss Reid," interrupted Honor, "but I think I have a very fair one. I have learned
already that when a girl creeps into her first ball-dress she is like a cabinet minister getting
into power, she has a great many troubles worse than trains to drag after her."

Miss Reid found this remark exceedingly funny, and laughed rather immoderately, Honor thought;
but just then Nanette came in with the dainty cups of tea, and so created a slight diversion
in the conversation.

As Miss Reid has told the reader Honor Edgeworth had really "come out," with Madame d'Alberg
and Mr. Rayne as chaperones, and had made a great sensation. She was the same calm, beautiful,
composed girl as ever, though a remarkable unseen change had come over her. If anything, it
had only given more dignity and grace to her bearing, more music and pathos to her voice, and
a more sympathetic and attractive expression to her face. Jean d'Alberg had not failed to notice
it, and with her usual keen instinct had readily divined the cause, but she never spoke of
it. She grew kinder, if possible, to the silent girl, and was satisfied for the present to
hope for better things.

This bright afternoon, Honor felt more cynical than usual, and the conversation with her frivolous
guests did not at all tend to improve her humor.

The Reids had just left the door, tucked into their comfortable conveyance, when two gentlemen
were announced. Honor recognized them as some of those whom she had met since her entree into
society, but she neither knew of, nor cared for the admiration that was so freely bestowed
on her by them.

When they were seated, Honor found that Mr. Standish was nearest her, and therefore she addressed
herself to him. He could be the most nonsensical soul in the world when he felt like it or
he could talk the dryest common sense that ever found its way into the wisest of heads, and
thus he made his society pleasant to feather-brains, and savants alike.

He was well up in almost every accomplishment. According to the girls, he could dance--oh his
dancing was heavenly, his singing was equally good, and as for flirting, why he could kill
a dozen female hearts with one of those pleading, dreamy, distracted looks, that he sometimes
made use of among his lady friends. He knew all the genus and species of small-talk, and when
it came to compliments and pretty little nothings, he was without a rival. He could take his
turn at tennis and come off favorably. He could ride splendidly and skate admirably, in fact,
he had made merciless havoc with the girls' hearts, with all his accomplishments and attractions,
and such a fever of envy and jealousy and eager gossip as he created among his fair friends
was something so "desperately horrid" (as they would put it) that one could almost hate him
for it, and to tell the truth, many of his rivals, who were quite in the shade beside him,
did hate him most cordially.

This manner and bearing of his, he looked upon as a passe-partout, and there was certainly
one item in his character that outshadowed all the rest, namely his conceit, or self-sufficiency
which was constantly asserting itself in his every look and action.

Vivian Standish was a thorough man of the world--I use the word in its most literal acceptation.
He was one of those cool, keen, calculating, diplomatic men, who never lose their presence
of mind, who never hesitate, and yet are never precipitate, who always say the right thing
in the right time, and to the right people. No one knew anything of his antecedents, but somehow,
he carried an acceptable sort of reputation on his face.

Guy Elersley had done many foolish things, but foremost among them all was, his having made
a friend of a man who was as obscure and incomprehensible to him as the most profound ethical
mystery.

They got on very well together, however. Guy found Vivian all that one fellow expects another
to be, consequently they soon became fast "chums." Now this is no light word at least in Ottawa.
If you give a fellow to understand that you are his friend, it means, "thro' fire and water,"
if anything ever meant it. Ottawa is one of the most unfortunate places in the world for some
people to live in. It is pregnant with snares and scrapes for budding manhood, and there is
redemption in nothing, if not in the steady arm or well filled pocket of a friend. According
to these notions, Guy and Vivian had played saviour to one another on sundry occasions. The
last confidence reposed was the note that Guy had given Standish to deliver in, "Honor Edgeworth's
own hands," before his departure on that eventful night when we left the two friends chatting
over Guy's new troubles and plans for the future.

Vivian Standish had drawn in the comfort of his cigar in rather anxious breaths, as he walked
back alone in the starlight after leaving his friend. He detested things that puzzled and crossed
him, and nothing under the sun could have puzzled him more than the sudden change that had
come over Guy Elersley. He had been such a happy, careless, daring sort of fellow all his life;
and now, all at once, a gloom of skepticism seemed to settle down on him, extinguishing the
light of hope and energy which had previously marked his character. This, Standish concluded,
was no meaningless nor ordinary effect, there must be a cause for this newer, more thoughtful
mood. Had he forfeited his claim to the long- expected legacy of Henry Rayne's wealth? Had
Honor Edgworth any thing to do with it? Perhaps he never answered these questions even to himself
on this silent night. He walked on quietly till he came to a streetlamp, whose yellow radiance
threw fitful gleams around the lonely street. Here he stopped and deliberately unbuttoning
his overcoat, took out the note that Guy had confided to his care, tore it open and coolly
read, word for word, the passionate declaration held therein. He laughed a low little chuckle,
with his cigar between his teeth, and muttered to himself, "not so bad by Jove, not a bad game
at all." Then without a trace of shame or compunction on his face, he calmly tore the precious
paper into little pieces which he carefully placed in his vest pocket. Then he buttoned up
his coat, and putting both hands in his pockets he walked steadily on, still scenting the air
with his expensive cigar, and wearing all the while such a look of lazy amusement as betrayed
nothing whatever of what might be going on inside of those handsome features.

Vivian Standish was a man of impulse and inspiration; but, strange to say, his impulse or inspiration
invariably moved him the right way. I use right, as meaning personal advantages or victory
for himself. His latest "inspiration" led him to reflect on the possible and very gratifying
advantages he might secure for himself by marrying well. "But then," thought he, "girls are
such diabolical ninnies that everything which does not come under the shadow of some big church
or fat parson is vicious in their eyes." In spite of this conviction, he had weighed his chances
and possessions against every possible drawback, and, with his usual conceit, he fancied the
road was beautifully clear.

Here we have him then with the self-appointed mission of choosing a wife. No man had ever held
within his soul such volumes of deep sentiment as he could call into his eyes when the occasion
required it, and no knight of the age of chivalry ever wooed a fair lady with such winning
words and courteous deeds as Vivian Standish could bring to his aid, when he so wished it.

This is an age replete with valuable opportunities for cunning people, and they are the losers
who cannot take advantage of the world's susceptibility and weakness, by turning its folly
to their own personal advantage and especial benefit.

Vivian Standish had not a genius for everything alike. He never in the world could have created
himself an apostle of aestheticism, though he found out later that there was more money than
exalted enthusiasm in the business He never could have bothered about a flying machine, or
spent his time discovering hair renewers or cures for rheumatism, but he could speculate with
the wealth that nature and a little art had given him, in the gold mines of the comfortable
houses that were open to him. With a little tinge of communism and a great deal of egotism
in his nature he concluded that he had as good a right to the gold and silver of those gouty
fathers and mothers as they had, and he was going to prove it too.

With this insight into his character, which is rather a long parenthesis than a direct deviation
from my story, we can see Vivian Standish in his true colors, and we can, therefore, easily
guess the object of his visit to Mr. Rayne's house on this particular afternoon. No ordinary
observer could have detected any other than a purely conventional motive in this call.

He had met Miss Edgeworth, and had solicited the favor from her of allowing him to call at
her residence. Every other young fellow had done nearly the same thing, and he himself had
acted in the same manner towards many other young ladies. But we, who are permitted to look
behind the screens while this little drama is going on, can say more about his true motives.
His clever way of reasoning had led Vivian Standish to believe that Guy Elersley had forfeited
every right to his uncle's wealth, and without knowing anything of Honor's own fortune, he
concluded that it was worth a fellow's while to secure her, as the most indirect, but about
the most truly lawful way of getting the "old fellow's" money.

It was this determination that had caused him to cast the fractions of Guy's love letter into
the fire when he reached his room on that eventful night. He excused himself very easily on
the plea that there was no earthly use in encouraging this love affair, when there were neither
hard cash nor good prospects to wind it up with. Elersley had had his chance and missed it.
Now, why wouldn't some less fortunate dog take his rejected luck and put it to better account?
There is no verdict so prompt as the one a man pronounces over a case of "my own good or another
fellow's." And Vivian Standish made up his mind, in plain English, to I do "square business."

"Square business" to him meant something very delightful to the average society girl. Courteous
manners, marked attentions, openly expressed admiration, and slavery almost if she proved exacting.
But Standish had an idea, and not a too comfortable one about the character of the girl he
had to deal with. And so this afternoon, he presented himself before her with all the charm
of a studied negligence which attracts in spite of one's self. He was very careful about all
that passed, as yet he was only groping in the dark. If he once knew whether she loved Guy
or not, his game would be an easy one, and this was the first problem he set himself to solve.
He spoke to her of a great many things before he ventured on the subject that interested him
most. When he did finally broach it, he merely asked in a simple sort of way:

"Have you heard any news of--a--our mutual friend, Mr. Elersley?"

The die was cast. He had only this instrument with which to apply his skill, and had he used
it well or not? The sound of this name was the "Open Sesame" to Honor's heartful of secrets,
and Standish scanned her face with a look of penetrating inquiry as he pronounced it. But men
are fools. Honor Edgeworth was a woman and a woman's face is not an index to woman's soul.
Truly her slender fingers clutched each other nervously until the golden circlets around them
nigh entered the tender flesh. But who felt that besides herself? It is a woman's own fault
if she is not appreciated to-day, for men will never know from her lips of the hundred moral
victories she achieves daily. Even those ordinary common-place females who make the dresses
and trim the hats of the creatures our men adore, even these do their inner selves more violence
in one short day than a man endures for a life time. Give me a man for courage, if you will,
for power of action, if you will, but give me a woman with a heart for an unrivalled endurance
and fortitude.

Vivian Standish cool, keen, deliberating, could read nothing in his companion's face, and thus
baffled, he began inwardly to wonder what would be his next course.

Honor looked at him in the most provokingly composed way and said dryly:

"You may give the word 'friend' a rather extensive meaning for aught I know. Things have grown
into such an exaggerated state, now-a-days, that a commonly sensible person is lost towards
understanding them."

Standish winced.

"Which may infer that I am not on intimate terms with my common sense," he thought, and aloud:

"I will retract the word if you please, and consider you and Mr. Elersley as strangers."

Strangers! that was true, deep down in her heart, but with her lips she said:

"By no means, Guy Elersley and I have ceased to be strangers from the first moment we met.
But this can not interest you. Let us talk of something else. Do you enjoy the last of the
season here?"

"Very much indeed," he replied, but without the slightest warmth, as he was inwardly wondering
at this girl's conduct, so different from the others. At this stage of his critical distraction,
his friend rose and shook hands with Madame d'Alberg, then advanced to make his adieux to Honor.
This necessitated Vivian's doing so likewise, and if ever Vivian Standish's hand clasped another's
emphatically, it did on this occasion. He just gathered the soft white fingers of this strange
haughty girl within his own, and held them for an instant in that trusting longing way that
had done him good service many a time before, then he laid them quietly away, with a look of
eloquent pleading in his eyes and a simple "Good-bye" on his handsome lips.

It was six o'clock at last. The gas was lit, the curtains drawn, and the familiar and just
now welcome sound of dishes was coming from the dining-room across the hall. Mr. Rayne was
expected every minute, and Mrs. d'Alberg and Honor were loitering the moments of waiting around
the drawing-room.

"Well, aunt Jean," said Honor, lazily placing her hand on the back of the arm-chair in which
the lady addressed was seated, (she had chosen to call her "aunt" since she was to appear in
society as her charge), "what do you propose doing to-night? Do you care at all to go to the
Bellemare's?"

"Oh, I don't know," Mrs. d'Alberg replied, "one place is as attractive as another for me. You
will see plenty of people and nonsense, and you may as well be wearied all at once with these
things as to foster the spirit by degrees. You will meet Miss Mountainhead or Miss Dash, or
Miss Reid some of these days, and if you can't talk about this one's 'kettledrum' and that
one's 'at home' you will be bored to death by hearing their version of it, so you might as
well do one thing as the other. You'll see that Mr. Standish too, by-the-way! Do you know,
I like him, Honor, it is a stamp you seldom see."

"Really, aunt Jean," Honor was smiling, "this looks suspicious. You should be blind to your
favorite stamps by now. But about this other thing, since we've accepted we had better go,
as you say, boring one's self to death, or being bored by other people is much the same thing,
so we may as well resign ourselves and make the best of it."

       *       *       *       *       *

Vivian Standish was puzzled more than ever when he left Mr. Rayne's house. He had counted on
meeting an ordinary society girl, but had been greatly, though not at all unpleasantly disappointed.

He did not dislike Honor Edgeworth in any way. He felt rather attracted towards her than otherwise,
but he felt uneasy about the little plans he had cherished and encouraged for so long.

An hour or so after leaving her, he was in his own room, comfortably installed in an easy chair
drawn up to the window, with his velvet slippers resting on the sill and the graceful clouds
of smoke curling upwards from his handsome mouth and surrounding his languid form. There is
not very much to look at from the window of a Bank street boarding house, and yet a passer-by
at this moment would have thought this elegant young man was deeply interested either in the
dilapidated representations of "Hazel Kirke" that adorned a straggling fence opposite, or in
the music (?) which a classic looking organ-grinder was trying to eke out of his instrument
to the time of the "Marseillaise," to the great delight of the customary crowd of youngsters
who surrounded him.

But Vivian Standish rarely wasted his faculties on such matter-of-fact things, while there
were other projects of a more personal advantage awaiting his consideration. He was wishing
heartily at that moment that some girls had not one-quarter of the brains that nature had improvidently
endowed them with, but this being a hopeless hope, he occupied himself in trying to discover
the best way in which to deal with a person so gifted.

A fellow in a boarding-house is a most unfortunate creature, being never quite free from the
intrusion of a host of friends. Vivian felt this unpleasant truth in all its intensity. His
interesting cogitation was cut short in a little while by the entrance of a bevy of comrades,
and he had to come down and stand at the front door, to flirt and "carry on" with the girls
that passed, and otherwise contribute towards the amusement of the crowd.

CHAPTER XIX.

  "Come now; what masks, what dances shall we have
   To wear away this long age of three hours
   Between our after-supper and bed-time."

Perhaps it was owing to Honor's apparent indifference that Henry Rayne refrained from giving
a full account of Guy Elersley's disappearance from among them. He had insinuated something
about the misunderstanding that had arisen between his nephew and himself, but the subject
was a painful one, and unless pressed for further information, he preferred to remain silent
altogether about it.

Honor had taken counsel with herself and had acted very wisely in consequence. She assured
herself that it was presumption to suppose that Guy loved her. She had no direct proof of such
a sentiment existing. Their whole period of acquaintance and companionship had been tinged
with romance, but it would have been the same, had she been any one else. It was almost the
certain fate of two young people thrown together as they had been to "fall in love." Yet he
had given her no definable cause to count on him as an admirer or lover. He had not even gone
to the depot on the morning of her departure, or shown himself in any marked way, concerned
about her; so she resolved to quietly stow away the items of her past that wound themselves
around his name or memory, and to begin another life strengthened by this new experience. There
is something of a Spartan endurance in a heroic woman. She can carry inside the fairest face,
the battered wreck of the fondest heart, and even if we must call this deception, surely it
is a virtue. She adopts her sad misfortune as a responsibility akin to duty, and it is a gratification
and a solace to herself to know that she suffers alone and in silence.

Honor did not allow this strange turn of things to influence her life visibly. She had learned
a new chapter of that mysterious volume that destiny holds open to all men, but it did not
seem new to her. She was one of those people who, from acute observation on those who have
gathered the fruit of a long experience, or from a study of those authors whom we know as direct
interpreters of the human heart, had acquired that inner knowledge and experience of things
which, in its moral effect on the system, is equivalent to the actual tasting of the same phases
of life. She had prepared herself to meet trials and disappointments in the very heart of her
comforts. What other fruit can be born of a selfish, scheming world? But she thought she had
discovered a sympathetic bond between her own and this other young soul. Guy did not seem to
her as the rest of his kind. At times, when his better nature was aroused, he gave expression
to the noblest and most exalted feeling. He had the one failing, however, of being easily led--and
there are so many persons to lead astray in Ottawa city, and so many places to lead to, that
it takes a very strong arm or a very eloquent voice or a very subtle influence to counteract
the effect of evil company on one we love. Honor could not encourage thoughts of distrust towards
Guy. The memory of their happy friendship always stood between her and her censure of him,
but still she could not cancel the thoughts of all he might have done and did not do. No word,
no sign, no message to assure her that he had clung to her memory as a bright spot in his misfortune;
and she would lay back in her bed at night, thinking, wondering and puzzling herself about
the strange, mysterious things that could transpire while this big, revolving machine of ours
turned once around.

There was a kind of subdued excitement in the upper front rooms of Henry Rayne's house to-night.
It had been decided to go to the Bellemare's, and all this extra confusion was only about the
toilets. Nanette was showering ejaculations of the profoundest admiration on Honor, who, robed
in black satin, stood before a tall mirror adjusting her skirt.

It was almost provoking to see the cool, calm way in which she went through the different stages
of "dressing." Her brocaded satin fitted exquisitely to her slender waist, and ended over her
shoulders in a sqnare cut, whose gatherings of such Spanish lace lay in dazzling contrast to
her snowy neck and arms.

A pair of diamond screws were fastened in her ears, but apart from these she wore no other
jewel. Before leaving her room, however, she plucked the bursting bud of a white rose that
grew in a dainty pot on the window sill, and with a spray of its leaves fastened it at her
breast. She was ready before aunt Jean or Mr. Rayne, so she stole down to the dimly- lighted
drawing-room to while away the waiting moments in playing dreamy chords and half-remembered
snatches of pensive airs.

Aunt Jean was a most fastidious woman, and dressed according to certain rules and regulations,
any aberration from which was a gross mistake not to be tolerated. Henry Rayne, for an old
man, was also uncommonly exacting. He spoiled, on an average, a dozen white ties nightly when
he decided on going out, and it was a task to insert his shirt studs in a way that would satisfy
him. When Honor had time to arrange things in the afternoon, all went smoothly enough; but
for him to dress on a short notice meant a good deal of trouble to his household.

       *       *       *       *       *

The brilliant light of a dozen chandeliers is flooding the ball-room at Elmhurst. The walls
of the spacious apartment are decked with festive decorations. The air is heavy with rich perfumes,
soft, sweet strains of dance music float through the crowded rooms, and women, the fairest,
richest and noblest are gliding by on the arms of their interested partners. Every face is
smiling, some are perfectly happy, some are perfectly wretched, some are perfectly indifferent--but
all are smiling, all look pleased. Even Miss Dash and a few other friends, who look suspiciously
like wall-flowers, smile broadly at the least amusing remark, just as though they were not
being consumed with jealousy and disappointment. They talk eagerly and gladly to deaf old members
of Parliament and stuffy bachelors, whom they hate more intensely than ever after the evening
is over. Fans are waving in every direction, the great, broad, heavy "coolers" of the fat mammas,
who are just dying from heat and exhaustion; and the pretty, feathery, spangled things, behind
which is whispered many a coquettish word by the pretty lips of gay young girls; and the poor,
ill-used one's of the wall-flowers, that are either being bitten viciously at the safest end,
or that fly impatiently through the air, cooling the puckered brows of disappointed belles.

Everyone is there who is "anything." The Bellemares are very well known in Ottawa. Strangers
point to their splendid mansion, situate a little way outside the city limits, and ask, "Who
can live there?" And the resident of Ottawa tells all he knows. Mr Joseph Bellemare, one of
our great lumber merchants, is the proprietor of that grand residence. He has plenty of money
and comfort, a small family--a marriageable daughter and two sons--who help to diminish very
considerably the family treasure. The house is finely adapted for large entertainments, having
immense rooms for reception, and dancing and refreshments. Then there was the handsome library,
the conservatory and billiard room, all with little tete-a-tete nooks and corners in which
spoony lovers might take refuge for hours, without being noticed.

There were lawns and groves, and boats and fishing for the delightful summer-time. In fact,
nature and art had both contributed largely towards rendering this superb dwelling-place one
of the finest, and most attractive in the whole country around.

Nature however, with characteristic inconsistency, had never intended Miss Louise Bellemare,
for a beauty. But nature proposes, and art disposes.

There are those among that crowd of beauty and eclat to-night, who would not attempt to dispute
the omnipotence of Belladonna, or blanc-de-perle, or any other item of the homely girl's toilet
repertoire, for it would have gladdened the eyes of the inventors of these cosmetics, if they
could have beheld for an instant the charming effect produced, by the skilful use of their
Helps to Beauty.

It is now quite on the late side of nine o'clock, and the night's sport has fairly begun. Young
men, pencils in hands are standing before their favorite acquaintances, soliciting the favor
of "at least one 'dance,' for me, you know." The first waltz is in full progress. The inviting
strains of the "Loved and Lost," are floating through the air, and the room is alive with the
"poetry of motion." Just at this moment Honor Edgeworth passes from the Reception Room, across
the Hall, leaning on Mr. Rayne's arm, and into the Ball-room. No one makes any pronounced interruption
to their occupation as she enters, but somehow the buzz seems to abate considerably, and the
voices seem to dwindle into a whisper.

There are different reasons for this proceeding. The girls' reason is a natural one. She is
new in society, very attractive, and her presence thrusts itself on them as a warning. They
don't see what she wants among Ottawa coteries, born and bred, no one knows where. But the
men's reason is also a very natural one. They are a little tired of continually meeting the
same fair faces wherever they go. A woman is to them like a good thing that won't wear out.
They do not wish to give up either altogether, but they weary at the sight of them, and so
long as they can substitute them for any other--whether inferior in merit, or not so provokingly
durable, they are happy, with the knowledge of course, that the other is always on hand when
they require it. This flattering opinion that fashionable men entertain of most fashionable
women is what is richly deserved by them, for women who flatter and spoil men as they are flattered,
and spoiled in Ottawa, can expect nothing else. A suit of clothes of respectable tweed, or
broadcloth, is the object of more spare enthusiasm than a whole collection of moral qualities
in a rival woman.

This explains why the male element of Ottawa society is extremely gratified to hail such an
interesting acquisition to their circle as Honor Edgeworth. The other girls are "dreadfully
disgusted" to note the sensation she creates, and instead of looking at her openly, they pretend
to be a million times better occupied while they are peeping at her behind each others' backs,
and over each others' heads. There is something to look at after all. Honor is surrounded immediately
and those who have not met her before, flock around the hostess, and Mr. Rayne, in the hope
of obtaining an introduction. But Honor displays no more sign of gratification at this lavish
display of admiration, than if it had been an every day occurrence of her life. She gives each
anxious solicitor a dance without any of the condescending airs of other ladies, and her programme
is almost full when some one brushes through the crowd and addresses her hastily.

"Miss Edgeworth, not too late am I?"

She looks up and sees Vivian Standish before her, as handsome a picture as ever riveted any
one's gaze. She smiles a bewitching smile of assumed despair.

"What am I to do," she asks in perplexity, "I have only one dance to divide between two of
you," and she turns to another importunate claimant, a diminutive man, very well inclined to
embonpoint who wears red whiskers and spectacles, "I think you were first Mr Vernon" she says,
smiling graciously, as she confronts his homely face.

Vivian's face was clouding perceptibly when some one laid his hand on Vernon's arm, and drew
him aside, apparently not noticing that he was engaged, Vivian had a friend around that time.

"Mr. Vernon does not evidently appreciate my partiality for him," Honor says laughingly, looking
straight into Vivian's eyes.

"And yet you would throw away on him, the favors I crave to obtain."

He said this half reproachfully, half eagerly. She placed her dainty little programme in his
hand, and smiled when he returned it, to find he had written, "Lucky Vivian S." opposite the
promised waltz.

I wonder if any realization in life thrusts itself so forcibly upon us, as that of the flight
of time. Our dearest and most precious moments do not dare to linger with us an added instant,
but hasten on with ceaseless flow to lose themselves in eternity's gulf. Only the hours of
sorrow seem to halt in their flight. The clock never ticks so slow and measured a stroke as
during the night of waiting, or watching. Then the rules of time become reversed, and in a
lonely vigil one counts by heart-throbs, sixty hours in every slow, slow minute. The very moments,
laden with gaiety and pleasure, that are dropping so quickly into the lap of the forever from
out the Bellemare's lighted halls, are surely dragging painfully and slowly, for the weary
watcher of death-beds, for the poor and shivering, for the deserted wife, for the orphan child,
for the chained prisoner. This is the mystery of life, this is the many-sided picture of existence,
and yet, this strange world is a masterpiece of a just and merciful Creator.

CHAPTER XX.

  If all the year were playing holiday,
  To sport would he as tedious as to work;
  But when they seldom come they wish'd-for come.
                                          --Shakespeare

From the moment the Canadian Pacific R'y train leaves Ottawa in the early morning, the interested
traveller can easily feast his eyes on the modest little villages and rival towns, a whole
succession of which greet him from the capital to Montreal and thence to Quebec city. These
juvenile country towns at once thrust the idea of repose upon the city folks who may chance
to visit them. The best of these boast of, at most, a dozen wealthy, respectable residents,
a village street of antagonistic merchants, a post office, an established inn, a mayor, a doctor,
the minister, and the priest, bad roads and spare sidewalks. One would never suspect any of
these villages to be guilty of any romance whatever, everybody seems to have attained the summit
of human ambition, and life flows on in an uninterrupted serenity that is fatal to the nervous
system of our enterprising city geniuses. Yet, there have been wonderful things done among
these rural scenes. There are volumes whose title pages unfold nothing of the mysterious tales
that are hidden and bound up within them.

We must cross the broad green fields and enter the old-fashioned houses, we must repair to
the white-washed church on Sunday and kneel in the high-backed pews, we must talk over our
tumblers to the fat proprietor of the solitary hotel, if we want to gather the interesting
details that characterize the village. They are the same "yesterday, and to-day and forever."
Nothing new happens, and the old traditions never grow stale.

Between the cities of Montreal and Quebec, on the south shore of the River St. Lawrence, among
what are familiarly known as the "townships," sleeps a little French village of the stamp I
have just described. Rows of white-washed houses of the same pattern are to be seen here and
there in the only street it boasts of, and scattered through the broad open fields are other
residences of more or less importance. All the long summer days the sun glares down so hotly
upon the dried straggling fences and the dusty village road, that scarcely a living creature
animates the scene. The residents close their doors, and leave down the folds of green paper
that deck each small window of their houses, and abandon the world to sundry pedestrians, who
are forced by cruel necessity into the scorched street an occasional bare-footed urchin on
his way to the grocery shop with a deformed pitcher to be filled with molasses, or a spare
woman or two gabbling at the counters or doors of the miserable shops that follow one another
in dingy succession through the street. But one is not to judge the place from this cheerless
picture, by no means, for, apart from the neighborhood I have described, this is one of the
prettiest villages in the Townships. It loses its charms only on the spot where man has interfered
with Nature's plans, in trying to provide accommodations for the settlers. The trees have been
cut down, and the fresh, green forest converted into a dry, dusty street, cheered all through
the hot afternoon by the dreary chirp of a grasshopper, or the buzz of countless millions of
healthy flies that swarm around the very doors and surroundings of provision depots. Outside
of this, in any direction one chooses to go, the scenery is attractive and beautiful; the trees
are tall and thick and abundant, meeting overhead, and enclosing cool, shady avenues, which
seem to wind in an endless stretch through the forest shades. Birds twitter and carol sweetly
as they flit unseen from twig to twig of the tall waving elms, and one would be apt to forget
the existence of human beings, were it not for an occasional interruption of this peaceful
monotony, in the way of a cozy cottage, whose gables peep through the foliage, the lowing of
cattle, or the sweet, clear song of some village maid, as she saunters through the broad rich
fields, with her pail held towards the impatient cows, and her large plaited straw bonnet thrown
recklessly on the back of her head, or being twisted by its safe strings on the fingers of
the idle hand. Amidst such enchanting scenery one forgets the dusty village, one loses the
hum and buzz in the comforting notes that Nature warbles to herself. Everything is so cool
and refreshing and quiet. The weariest heart sighs from actual relief when transported to a
paradise like this--and no wonder.

Many, many miles from the village, by the "Elm Road," is one of the prettiest and most delightful
and loneliest spots that nestle on the bosom of the earth. An almost oppressive silence reigns
in the woods, and nothing seems to stir visibly. You can hear the wind playing its softest
melody through the tops of the great trees, but the leaves farther down only sway noiselessly
in a graceful silence. It might be too lonely, only for the variety and perfection that Nature
displays at every step and turn ferns and mosses, and little woodland flowers which never bud
outside the shady forest, greet one at every instant, and a feeling so peaceful and composed
steals over the soul that the place becomes hallowed to those who have yielded to its powerful
influence. All at once, one can perceive traces of habitation, a neat enclosure of rustic boughs
borders the avenue, and the grass on either side is even and trim, then comes a large rustic
gate leading into a gravel walk, having here and there, under some shady oak, a garden chair
or lounge, and a little table all of the same picturesque rustic wood, then comes a gorgeous
parterre of flowers, which load the air with their rich and heavy perfumes, and directly behind
this is a low broad stone dwelling that one might have expected to turn upon from the very
first. Great thick vines of Virginia creepers climb the sides and front of the house. Green
and yellow canaries in cages hanging from the verandah, send the octaves of their warblings
far back into the woods. It is as fair a picture as ever an artist longed to produce on canvas,
one of those dwelling-places which seem to us suggestive of and consistent with nothing else
but exquisite peace, comfort and happiness, and though we have no reason for imagining it to
be a depository of perfect contentment, we yet repel any idea that might suggest itself to
us of empty cupboards inside those walls, of a scolding wife in those cozy rooms, or of washing
days in that picturesque little kitchen.

The mind naturally harbors only ideas of that lazy sort of comfort that of necessity comes
from such surroundings as these. This is "Sleepy Cottage," of which all the villagers spoke
in enthusiastic terms, and indeed, it must be said, "Sleepy Cottage" would have done credit
to towns and cities of more popular fame than the humble little village of the Eastern Townships.
Were it anywhere else it could open its beautiful gates to an appreciative public, while here
it slept quietly away almost without interruption. At present its only occupants were an aged
gentleman and a girl of about nineteen summers, a maid servant and the old gardener, "Carlo,"
the Maltese cat, and the birds.

The story, as well as it is known, was that Monsieur and Madame de Maistre had come from old
France fifteen years ago and settled at "Sleepy Cottage", that Josephine, their little four-year-old
daughter, had been kept in almost total seclusion all her life under the tuition of a French
governess whom they got no one knew where, and that the first glance the villagers had of her
was at the funeral of Madame de Maistre, which took place when Josephine was in her sixteenth
year. Her extraordinary beauty and dignity had so impressed the simple villagers at that time
that they never forgot it, and though they had seen her but very seldom in the three subsequent
years, the memory of her sweet face never left them yet.

One cool summer evening, a number of the old male residents of the village had gathered around
the broad steps of the "Traveller's Inn," and were disposing of themselves on the inverted
soap boxes and low wooden stools that adorned the front of the public door, as best they could,
one or two paring, with studied attention, ends of thick sticks, with which they had provided
themselves before sitting down, others resting their elbows on their knees, and holding the
capacious bowls of their black stumpy pipes in their big brawny hands, others again drawing
figures in the light dust that covered the space between the impromptu seats and the sidewalk,
and all chatting in a friendly sort of way, alike on the latest and the oldest items of interest.
Just now, they were discussing the mystery of the young girl's seclusion at Sleepy Cottage
when they were suddenly interrupted by a crowd of five young fellows who had crossed, unperceived,
the fields leading from the depot, and now sought admission to the "Traveller's Inn."

The men near the door, as they rose in silence to make the passage free, looked at each other
in mute wonder, and threw enquiring glances after the figures of the strangers as they crossed
the threshold of the inn. They were five tall, well built, good looking young men, with all
the traits of city life about them. Had a whole army of soldiers invaded the "Traveller's Inn"
at this moment it could scarcely surprise the spectators more than did the appearance of these
young fellows.

They enquired of the thunderstruck proprietor whether he had rooms to accommodate them for
a few days, and he had just nerve enough to tell them that if they could manage with three
rooms, that many were at their service.

Appearing quite satisfied with this arrangement, they had supper ordered.

It was not in immediate readiness, so while the life was being hurried out of the maid in the
kitchen, the new-comers went outside and fell in with the crowd at the door step.

One of the new arrivals, the most striking looking of all, and with whom we will have to deal
more particularly afterwards, addressed the reserved sages on behalf of all the rest.

"I suppose we surprised you this evening," said he, laughing, and throwing one leg over a vacant
soap box, just as any of the natives would have done, "but our being here surprises ourselves
as much as it does you. We come from the McGill College in Montreal, and we are going far into
the depths of your forest here to look for a few week's sport."

The group of listeners appeared a little more reconciled to the intrusion by this explanation
of it, and after a few moments of awkward silence, old Joe Bentley, who was near the speaker, said:

"Welcome, gentlemen! Ye're welcome to the village, and good sport ye can promise yerselves
if ye'll go the right way about it."

"Then we must hope," put in a second of the students, "that some of you who know will not be
above giving us a word of advice."

"The Lord forbid," ejaculated old Bentley in a most serious tone. "And the very best spot in
the country is the spot we were talkin' of as ye came along. It's out by the 'Sleepy Cottage.'
If ye can get that strange Frenchman to leave you through his grounds, ye never had such shooton'
an' fishin as there is a couple of miles up on the other side of them."

"Who is the strange Frenchman?" asked the first speaker, as he felt in his vest pocket for
a match to light his cigar.

"He'm. Give us an easier one than that to answer," said Martin Doyle, a crude, suspecting farmer,
who smoked sullenly on the end of a bench. "How is dacent people, who lived here all their
lives, to know who them invaders is that comes in on people with their quare notions and ways,
never showing the daylight to the child God gave 'em till she's a fine young woman on their
hands, and never spakin' a word to other folk, as if honest men wasn't their betters any day."

The new-comers smiled from one to another. It is so consistent with the character of these
country people to guard against and suspect, rather than trust unknown people who come among
them wrapped in a mystery of any sort.

"This is strange," said another student in a tone calculated to elicit all the information
about the "invader," that the rustics were willing to give.

"Well," said Joe Bentley, in a more christian-like tone, "people has no business talkin' only
of what they know, but we all know that some fourteen or fifteeen years ago, this man that
lives in Sleepy Cottage now, kem here with his wife and baby, and took up living in the country.
Off and on since that day we've seen the old man himself around the village, but Madame kept
close enough from that day till the day of her death which happened about three years ago,
when she was buried in the graveyard over, and that was when we first saw the girl ever since
the day they brought her a tiny thing in their arms from off the cars. Dan Sloan, and some
more of the fellows that goes shooting and fishin' through the grounds, says they saw her a
little girl growing up, with a pinched-nosed, starved looking mamselle for a governess, hawking
her around them grounds an snatchin' her off if they came within a mile of her."

Here the farmer removed his pipe and gave a long whiff of smoke, then replacing it in his mouth,
he continued "We were all jest talkin' of him as ye came along, an' if ye wan't sport ye'll
have to ask the old fellow, to let ye through his grounds, and then mebbe ye'll know more about
him than we do ourselves."

The young city fellows did not at all dislike the idea of the adventure that was in store for
them. They were summoned to supper shortly after old Joe Bentley had finished his narrative,
and resolving to enlist the good wishes of the villagers at any cost they deposited a round
sum of money on the battered counter of the humble "bar," to "treat the crowd," they said as
they passed under the low doorway into the dining-room.

It was rather a noisy meal, and Sarah's best attempt at ham and eggs, vanished in the most
practical appreciation, that five young college students can show when hungry. They discussed
the recent topic of Sleepy Cottage over their cold apple pie and strawberries and cream, and
they all decided that it was the most romantic thing in the world, that they should be just
brought to the gates of the prison wherein pined a maiden fair, through the cruelty of an unmerciful
father. They manufactured quite a novel out of the details, and laid themselves out with a
will to unravel the plot, or die in the attempt.

"I'd bet my bottom dollar," said one student, as he drained his glass of lager beer, "that
ye Prince of Hearts," will be the one to see this, "Lady fair," the first.

"We don't dispute it," joined in the rest, "he's the devil for working his way into the favor
of women."

Here they all looked at him who had addressed the villagers first, and accused him of outdoing
their grandest attempts in the siege of hearts. They called him "Bijou" and whether it was
his name or not, he appeared quite satisfied with it. He seemed to be a little superior to
the rest, judging by the deference and courtesy they showed him above what existed among themselves,
and he, amiable and pleasant always, laughed good-naturedly at their words of praise, and little
insinuations of assumed jealousy. They had come down to this quiet village on a "jamboree,"
and we all know more or less what students mean by that. It would be both unnecessary and uninteresting
however to give an account in detail of these young fellows' adventures during their sojourn
in the country; that part alone which affects the rest of our story, is the one we will dwell upon.

CHAPTER XXI. The door of the house was open, and on two large easy chairs on the vine-covered
verandah were seated Alphonse de Maistre and his pretty daughter.

The old man wore large green glasses over his eyes, and his hands were folded as he sat quietly
there, listening to the birds and inhaling the fragrance of the rich flowers which adorned
the pretty garden.

Josephine lay with her head resting on the cushioned back of her chair, her fingers inserted
between the pages of a volume she had just been reading. Both were silent for a considerable
time. At length the old man spoke.

"Es-tu la Fifine, tu ne parles pas?"

"I am here in body," answered the girl in French, "but not in mind, not in heart."

"Always the same," the old man replied, with a tinge of sadness in his tone. "I thought you
would learn wisdom before this, but you do not. What do you want that I have not given you,
except company?"

"And what is all you have given me, beside that? I want what the beggars in my books have--liberty.
You are not young, you are no longer sanguine and hopeful, while my poor heart is bursting
with the fullness you will not let me spend. A living death like mine's a cruelty, a tyranny
that God and man must condemn."

"Must I tell you again," asked her father passionately, "that you are differently situated
from other girls? Do you not know that at your birth a woman who had been your mother's enemy
cursed you and wished you trouble, and shame, and anxiety, and that I in my boundless love
for you, will protect you in spite of fate, from such a destiny. The fear of such a thing being
realized has sent your mother to a premature grave. You are now entering upon the age that
is capable of framing your whole life, and why not reconcile yourself to the belief, that the
world, which is dazzling you with its gaudy show, is false and delusive. It is a tinsel glitter,
Josephine, the wreck of the innocent and good, turn your back on it for my sake if not for
your precious own."

There was a pathos in the old man's voice that would have moved any young heart but the rebellious
one of the girl he addressed. There was a feeling nigh to despair in his words when he spoke
to her of herself.

The real case was, that she was betrothed already to a man of whom she knew nothing whatever.
It was a contract as any other, and though every discretion was used before forming it, yet
Josephine would not become reconciled to the idea.

This man, chosen by her father, was a distant relative of her own, and had been reserved for
her in order that certain possessions might remain in the family. She had grown up with this
idea, but it was extremely repulsive to her. She detested and despised in anticipation this
man, whom she had been taught to think of as her future husband, and over and over she bemoaned
the tyranny and cruelty of those who had kept her a prisoner all her young life.

There are in France, women who betray supernatural power in foreseeing the future as well as
in performing sundry inexplicable feats. They are looked upon as magicians and are invariably
associated with the influence of the evil one. It had been the fate of Alphonse de Maistre's
wife to incur the inveterate displeasure of one of these persons, and on the day on which her
first and only child was born, Dame Feu-Rouge, obtaining admission in disguise to the bed-side
of Madame de Maistre, pronounced a fearful malediction on the sleeping form of the infant Josephine,
to be realized in later years, when, to use her own words, "she would have grown up in beauty,
like a fair, ripened fruit that is rotten at the core."

This cast a heavy gloom over the household of the de Maistres, and though not an over susceptible,
nor superstitious family, they could not shake off the presentiment, that hung like a pall
over their lives. They decided to leave France, and to seek out seclusion in the backwoods
of the new world, where the preservation of their child would be to them, an easy matter. It
was before they left their native country, that the marriage contract was signed between Josephine
de Maistre and Horace Lefevre, the children being then four and six years of age, respectively.

Up to this time, nothing had disturbed the peaceful monotony of their new home, but, all day
as Alphonse de Maistre prematurely aged and gray, sat nursing the grief that had lately visited
him in the death of his wife, this girl, for whom he had sacrificed all, grumbled and sighed
for the dangers, from which, it had cost him so much to rescue her.

To add to the heavy burden of sorrow that afflicted him, Alphonse de Maistre had to sacrifice,
that which contributed most towards making his present home endurable, his eye-sight. It had
been failing rapidly for years, and finally became totally extinguished after the death of
his faithful, broken-hearted wife.

Even this appealing condition of his, failed to reconcile the wayward girl, to the life he
had chosen her to lead; the great pity was, that proper care had not been taken to screen those
pleasures altogether from the eyes that had been forbidden to feast upon them. Through volumes
of romances, and love-songs, Fifine had gathered a knowledge of what it is to live unfettered,
in that world of privileges which she could see only through iron bars. Her governess too,
had abused the confidence placed in her by the parents of the girl, and had sung the praises
of that world outside, until Fifine yearned to cast aside her fetters, and mix in with the
lively throng. She had all the qualities of a worldly girl latent within her and a strong feeling
of vanity about her personal attractions, and though she resigned herself to never being able
to be seen by any one, she was just as fastidious about the fit of a costume she would wear
as any Parisian lady of haut ton.

It always irritated Josephine de Maistre, to hear her father allude to the unfortunate cloud
that darkened her young life, she always raged and cried and said it was "betises" and on this
occasion she listened no more patiently than on any other; she sprung nervously from the chair,
and clasping her hands behind her back, raised her shapely head to address a large green parrot,
that was whistling in his great iron cage, on the verandah beside her,--"Poor Poll, Pretty
Poll"--came from the thin, pretty coral lips. Poll, thrust his head on one side, and looked
almost calculatingly upon the svelte figure of his mistress, and said in a meaning croak, "come
to dinner--the guest is hungry."

"Greedy Poll," said Fifine, stepping in through the open French window, into the dining-room;
she emerged a second later, holding a tempting cracker, between her dainty fingers, she opened
the cage door and then lay back again in her cosy chair, having placed the cracker between
her own lips. Poll, was quite used to being thus trusted, and stepping majestically out, he
perched himself on the shapely shoulder of the young girl, and picked the cracker from its
dainty resting place.

A few quiet moments ensued, disturbed only by the crunching noise of Poll's beak in the much
relished biscuit, when suddenly Fifine gave a great exclamation of surprise, and darted off
her seat. Poll, had abused the trust he had so long respected, and had flown off to quite a
little distance from the house.

"What is the matter?" the old man asked, leaning forward anxiously in his chair.

"The naughty Poll has flown away," Fifine answered, "but he cannot go far, Preston clipped
his lordship's wings a very short time ago--I will get my hat and follow him."

In another instant, Josephine, in the daintiest of garden-hats tied under her pretty chin,
was chasing her truant bird through the wood. She had soon reached the limit of the house-grounds,
for, though Poll was unable to fly far at the time, he skipped ahead most provokingly, just
as Fifine neared him, and called out in his lustiest croaks, "poor Poll, poor Fifine, Poll
wants a cracker, Fifine wants a beau--beau, oh dear, ha, ha, ha." The color had risen to the
brunettes pretty cheeks, and her eyes had grown a little wild-looking, from the chase, her
hat had fallen back on her shoulders, and the breeze played teazingly with the dark waves of
her hair that bordered her perfect brow, she was looking up at a twig above her head, whereon
was perched the provoking bird, and as she ran heedlessly towards it, her foot became entangled
in a net-work of withered branches that lay in the long grass, and with a cry of pain she fell
foremost, on the ragged edge of an old tree stump that stood between her and the soft harmless
ground.

Had it been the most imaginative chapter of a dime novel, things could not have happened more
opportunely than they did. Just as the echo of the girls cry of distress died in the distance,
there was a crackling noise of the branches near by, and a man, young and handsome, with sporting
tackle wound around him, stood beside the prostrate form of Fifine de Maistre.

"The d--l? this is a surprise," said the handsome stranger kneeling down on one knee, and untying
the ribbons of the large-leafed hat, from the throat of the girl. She was turned from him,
but he could see a tiny stream of crimson blood oozing from beneath the hidden face, and slinging
aside his sporting regalia he raised the unconscious form in his arms, and looked enquiringly
on the still features.

We can forgive the wasted moments of speechless admiration that followed, before he tried to
restore consciousness to the inanimate girl, for her beauty had struck him into silent wonder,
and being a man, what could he do but stare and admire. There is no appeal so eloquent to the
heart of a man as that of a female face of perfect beauty, and when that face is clouded by
pain or sorrow, or distress of any kind, a man can no longer control himself.

In this instance our hero had hit upon a nest of temptations--first, he moistened the corner
of his silk handkerchief from a flask of water he carried with him, to bathe the throbbing
temples, and to wipe away the blood that had disfigured the pretty face. The wound was fortunately
a very slight one, and a little treatment sufficed. Having done this, he hesitated a moment
and gazed lovingly on the still, motionless features and form of the strange girl, and then,
weak, susceptible, unworthy mortal that he was, he bowed his handsome face over her, until
two pairs of handsome, well curved lips had met in a--stolen kiss.

After this, he balanced a flask of brandy tenderly and carefully over the pale, set mouth,
the even features puckered into an ugly grimace as the spirits moistened the tongue, then her
bosom heaved with a great fretful sigh, and she raised the closed lids, slowly and tremblingly
displaying to the expectant gaze of her attendant the loveliest pair of dark eyes he had ever seen.

There was a great, vacant stare of stupid wonder for the first instant of returning consciousness,
then Fifine, starting up as if from a nightmare, looked bewilderingly around her in a puzzled,
dazed sort of way.

"Are you better?" asked the deep, musical voice of the stranger so eagerly that Fifine realized
at once that something must have gone wrong. She raised herself up with a great effort, and
looked around in blank wonder.

It is not hard to understand how she felt, she, who had never in all her life known what it
is to receive the simplest act of courtesy from anyone, now opening her eyes in a lonely wood
to find the strong arms of a handsome man supporting her carefully, and holding her head tenderly
against his breast for repose. Unschooled though she was in the general items of conventionality,
she yet had enough womanly instinct in her to form a perfectly correct calculation of her own,
on the strange things that had just transpired.

She felt, while she viewed her handsome hero with that first enquiring glance, that already
they were something more than mere strangers to one another. What is there in a little stolen
kiss to work such a wonderful change in one? How is it that, though perhaps unable to define
everything clearly, a woman can always feel, always know when a man has tried his influence
over her thus far?--for influence it certainly is, when a woman has given to the man she is
capable of loving, permission to touch his lips to hers, she has at the same time bowed in
voluntary slavery under his yoke forever. It is an experience that is never a past, and yet
all that has happened before it becomes a blank in the heart, life dates anew from this circumstance,
and "is never the same again." This was the nature of the sudden change that had come over
our little heroine--the strange romanticism and novelty of the whole scene impressed her visibly.

"Better?" she queried, "Oh, yes. Polly!" and she looked up towards the fated tree that had
caused her fall, then realizing her position, she turned to her deliverer, and in a slightly
embarrassed tone, said, "I suppose I owe my thanks to Monsieur for aiding me to recover. I
was hunting my parrot who escaped from his cage, and met this misfortune while chasing him
through this untidy wood."

As she spoke, she raised her tiny, jewelled hand to her face, complaining of a pain in the
vicinity of the wound that had been so lovingly dressed, and in trying to advance towards her
hat, that hung on the projecting twig of a tree a faint little cry of suffering escaped her.
She had injured her ankle too, and was unable to stand on one foot in consequence.

During all this time our young hero was being consumed by admiration for the lovely young girl.
Such eyes! Such a whole face! Such a figure! She was fit to clasp in his strong arms and be
borne home in a few strides-- such a precious little burden she looked. But this he scarcely
dared to do just now. Fifine realized her situation as quickly as if she had planned it all
beforehand. In spite of the pain and injuries received, she could not help feeling intensely
gratified at the romantic turn things had taken. What was the dearest parrot on earth beside
a real live young man, handsome and chic, and with eyes and bearing just like the heroes in
her French novels? Whatever way she might have reached home under ordinary circumstances, these
were too promising to have her rely on her own capacity, and to make this understood, she made
another attempt to walk, but apparently with less success than at first. Her silent admirer
drew a step nearer, and held his arm towards her.

"Do let me assist you," he pleaded, "those little feet were never intended for the branches
and boughs of a rough wood like this."

Fifine had never learned how to judge a man by his smallest words and lightest actions. She
knew nothing of the thousand little deeds that are done by the counterfeit gentleman, which
the real one would spurn with contempt, hence it did not seem at all like taking an advantage
of her to hear this one address her with such an open compliment.

The effect was to his benefit. He saw immediately that this was a young girl, hopelessly unschooled
in the rules I and regulations of the modern art of coquetry, and so his smile, half hidden,
looked as though he meant to repay himself for this amusing trouble.

"Do you live far from here?" was his next question to Fifine who had become quite resigned
to her happy misfortune by now.

"Not far, if I was alone and well, but," she added almost coquettishly, "having to trouble
you to escort me will make the distance seem twice as long."

Her companion looked amused, he tucked her arm still more firmly within his, and drew her quite
close to him. She had put on her hat again and looked sweeter than ever as they began the return
home. He took up the conversation at her last words and said in a sorry tone.

"It is a pity we show so soon that our tastes are so entirely different. However, you will
excuse me if I say it is your fault. Now, I prize this walk back just for the reason you assign
for disliking it. You find it long because I am with you, and I will find it short just because
you are with me."

Such words as these went straight to Fifine's susceptible heart; her most exaggerated dreams
had never led her this far. She looked at him doubtfully, but it was no dream, she was actually
leaning on the strong arm of a live man, listening to words, such as the most devoted Romeo
might address to his idolized Juliet.

"But if I must agree with you," she said, "I must still disagree with myself, remembering that
while I may never see you again, I must live all my life with myself. Besides I wonder if I
could enjoy anything; that word was surely not made for me, I have never known it yet."

She was skilled as any adventuress in the art of captivating. If confidence and a recital of
petty woes, from the tempting lips of a fatally beautiful girl, do not appeal most strongly
to a man's heart, nothing will. Besides, consider the influence of circumstances. When that
pretty girl and you are wholly isolated from every other man and pretty girl in creation, and
she is making you realize by her dependence on you, how easily wrongs are righted, and how
much strength there is in that strong arm of yours, who is to answer for the consequences?
Men are such one sided creatures, they either lean all over on the heart side or altogether
on the other. If their extravagance is the former, you can do anything you like with them,
if you only go the right way about it, whilst if the other prevail, it is a hopeless case of
barrenness against all your best endeavors. Fortunately most young men of our day lose balance
on the left side and give all up to their intense emotions. They have never learned the A B
C of self-denial, and they make an act of resignation first and then plunge into trouble.

Fifine's enthusiastic admirer felt at this moment like opening his heart, and closing her up
in its safe fetters forevermore, and I fancy Fifine would as soon have had it as any other
nook at the present moment, but neither spoke of it. They were making slow progress along their
homeward path, and the suggestive surroundings and interesting circumstances were too much
for the unsuspecting girl. She burst into a lively strain of confidence extracted by the answer
her companion made to her last despairing remark about enjoying herself.

"My dear young lady, what has Fortune, so very partial to you in all things, left undone in
your enviable life?"

There was so much of seeming pathos in his voice that Fifine could not doubt the implied sincerity
of his tone, so she unsealed the secrets of her life, telling him all, except the unhappy cause
which forced her father to bring her into such entire seclusion.

Many of my readers must have guessed, by now, that he whom the students at the Travellers'
Inn called "Bijou," and he who is now making desperate love to Fifine de Maistre, are identical.

Just as the "boys" had said, "the Prince" was sure to break the spell, that fettered the life
of the beautiful recluse. He had been on his way to her father, to seek his permission for
himself and his fellow students to pass through his grounds, when all at once a new experience
presented itself and he found himself talking all sorts of nice nonsense, to a "deuced pretty
girl."

It is needless to dwell on the details of the first meeting between those two. Fifine had thought
it wiser to leave her charming escort at the rustic gate, insinuating that he might come at
any other time to visit her father, and that there was no necessity to speak of what had transpired
in the wood.

"But, Mademoiselle," said "Bijou" as he leaned languidly over the gate that stood between them,
"are you going to dismiss me like this, as soon as I have discovered the charm of your presence?
If your father objects why could you not visit this spot unknown to him; I must see you again,
at any cost."

He grasped the tiny, white hand that drooped over the gate, and looked her pleadingly in the eyes.

Fifine was dreaming. All the wild fanciful illusions with which she had brightened the dark
days of her young life, seemed to be realizing themselves in a bright procession before her
eyes. Here was that ideal lover with whom she had so often rambled through those solitary grounds
in fancy--here he was in reality telling his tale of love into her ready ear. Here was the
voice she had heard in her dreams, and there were the deep dark eyes that had haunted her out
of the page of Eugene Sue's novel, through the long, long days of her loneliness. Compensation
seemed within easy grasp. She looked up, into the face of the man before her, and the die was
cast. She recognized there a power from which she could never fly. She shivered slightly as
she realised that he was master of her will, in spite of herself almost. He saw his advantage,
he knew before this how such an ascendancy profits the owner, and his eyes sparkled anew with
a light which to other eyes than Fifine's would not have been wholly attractive.

The world is full of such people and their victims. We look upon a face under whose steady
gaze we stagger; there are eyes we cannot encounter in a full unflinching look; there are hands
whose touch thrills and weakens us, there are voices which sink into our souls, and mesmerize
us at their will. Let the circumstances be what they may, we cannot forget the influence that
thus haunts our lives.

Poor Fifine had not learned life's lesson wisely. She thought that after the first love came
the "wedding ring," and then days, and weeks, and years of highest joy. What did this unsophisticated
child know of clubs and bar-rooms and gambling houses, of city lamp-posts, and midnight serenades.
What business has any woman knowing it for that matter? so long as she can render an account
of every dollar and hour she spends in the day, what is it to her whether her "lawful wedded
husband" chooses to watch the stars all night or not. But after all it is time woman learned
better sense, it is her privilege to accept or reject this life of uncertainty, and yet, like
Fifine, she looks lovingly, admiringly on the pictures bright side only, and fancies "Life's
enchanted cup sparkling" all the way down.

The words of consent had passed the threshold of Josephine de Maistre's lips. She felt her
hands pressed warmly as she uttered them, and the next instant she was limping alone up the
garden walk, her sweet face beaming with unsuppressed smiles, and her hat hanging carelessly
over her shapely shoulders.

There was no one in view when she reached the house, but perched on the little iron swing in
his pretty cage was Poll, swaying himself complacently to and fro, and looking at his mistress
first with one eye and then the other. Fifine spoke not a word, but gathering all the dainties
out of the well-supplied cage, passed into the house, leaving the famished bird without a morsel
wherewith to gratify himself.

CHAPTER XXII.

  "Oh what a tangled web we weave
  When first we practise to deceive."

Are you feeling well enough to entertain the old man to-night?" said the plaintive voice of
Alphonse de Maistre, as father and daughter resumed their seats on the verandah, after the
simple evening meal was over.

"Oh yes," Fifine answered quickly, "my foot scarcely pains at all now, it will be nothing serious,
I think, after all." Then in her sweet low voice she commenced to read to her blind old parent
who sat in a listening attitude with his hands folded in his lap.

Suddenly the firm voice of the young girl wavered, she stammered and grew distracted. There
were footsteps in the distance that made her heart beat violently. It was three days since
her accident in the wood, and she was anxiously looking forward to a second interview with
her lover. A moment after, her face was suffused with blushes as she found herself confronted
by the handsome stranger.

"Pardon, Monsieur," he said addressing the old man, "I have taken the liberty to call on you,
to solicit permission for myself and some friends to pass through your grounds on our way to
the upper woods."

The voice startled the old man. The words were few and to the point; the speaker had evidently
not sought a pretext for familiar intercourse, but his voice had too much of the city cultivation
about it to please him entirely. His first thought was of Fifine.

"Are you there, daughter?" he asked stretching forth his hand, to make assurance doubly sure.

Fifine caught it in her gentle grasp and drew nearer to him.

"Tell this stranger in his native tongue," he said slowly, "that your father is blind and cannot
see him, but that he will trust him and grant the permission he asks, if he will leave immediately,
Preston can show them the road."

"I will spare mademoiselle the painful recital," interrupted the young man, now speaking in
French, "for I have understood Monsieur her father."

"Who is this man, Fifine?" De Maistre asked nervously. "Is he from the village?"

"I know not, mon pere," she answered, trying to be calm, and then to the surprise of all, a
loud laugh echoed in the evening air, and the voice of the truant parrot called out from the
cage above their heads.

"Ha, ha, ha! he kissed her in the wood, Fifine, give Poll his cracker, polly wants a cracker."
The girl's face was dyed with scarlet--and the young man's eyes looked daggers at the mischievous
bird. There was an awkward silence for a moment and then "Bijou" with characteristic diplomacy
exclaimed:

"What an amusing bird, he speaks uncommonly well, though his words are not very appropriate,
certainly."

A shadow passed over the face of the blind listener, a momentary pang shot through his breast,
he clasped his hands convulsively, then turning to the stranger he said in a steady voice:

"Never mind the bird, he says queer things at times. Sir, I grant you the permission you come
to seek, my gardener, Preston, will await you at whatever time you appoint, and conduct you
through. Good-evening, Sir."

Taking this for dismissal, "Bijou" raised his hat, slightly pressed the hand of the beautiful
Fifine, and the next moment he was gone.

A strange and awkward silence followed his departure. Much might have been said on such an
unusual occurrence as this, yet neither chose to speak.

At last the evening sun as though weary of the quiet scene, gathered all his truant rays out
of the tree tops and from the purple mountain summit, and sunk to rest behind the sombre clouds
that twilight spread across the sky. Then Fifine who longed to be alone, kissed her father
good-night and retired to her own little room, after telling the servant to light a lamp and
take her father to his chamber.

The story of Fifine de Maistre's life, from the time of her adventure in the wood, until six
months after, would be to the unsympathetic, the most monotonous series of details imaginable.
There is no bore like a man or woman who is in love, to those whose precious privilege it never
can be, to be guilty of such a natural offence. A man never tires of any one so quickly as
he does of some fellow who is "mashed," and girls who are not engaged never count her who is,
as strictly one of themselves.

This therefore may be constituted as a plea for refraining to dwell upon the time so laden
with exquisite joy to Josephine de Maistre, the time that made up the days and nights of this
period of her life at Sleepy Cottage. She had worked out such fallacious reasonings as justified
her in the end, in holding clandestine meetings with her romantic lover, and so, each night
when she had finished reading to her father, she stole quietly away to the rustic gate, at
the end of the shrubbery, there to lend a willing ear to protestations of love and devotion,
from the lips upon whose threshhold she knew, hung the words of her future destiny.

Things had gone thus far, when one night, Fifine in her old humor, was grumbling against the
loneliness of her existence, and giving expression to her discontent in most touching terms.
Her chivalrous adorer looked the picture of intense sympathy, as he lay stretched in the long
grass at her feet.

"Fifine," said he, and something in his voice and eyes thrilled her to the very heart, "my
darling, your words are loaded with pain for me; why do you grumble who should be happy amidst
these surroundings. If your life were as blank and prospectless as mine, you might have good
reason indeed to sigh and complain. You see, a man has to rough it with body and soul. It's
not so hard to keep our bodies up, but the task is for the heart. Men should have no hearts,
or else some one to love them always and well. I could gather so much courage in a worthy love."

The girl, poor simple child, was touched. She drew nearer to Bijou whose handsome head lay
nestling against the rustic bench where she was sitting. He was watching the quick, nervous
heaving of her breast, and he could see a slight tremor in the well-curved lip. She fell upon
her knees before him, and as she spoke, two large round tears flowed over her pretty checks.

"But Bijou, do you not know that I love you as worthily as I know how, that life with you is
all the world to me, and without you it is a miserable blank."

Then she laid her bowed head on his shoulder, and sobbed convulsively.

There was a curious expression in the man's face, as he raised the girl and made her sit beside
him. Then taking both her hands in his, he said, in a low tone--

"Fifine, I was only waiting those words from your lips. They fill my vacant life with sweet
and pleasant dreams, but in our case, as in all others, 'the course of love can not run smoothly.'
You see I gave up my college course after I had met you, and since that time I have been thrown
on the world's mercy, almost a penniless waif. I have no wealth to offer you, no luxury of
any kind, no abundance, but love and devotion, and that cannot satisfy you."

"O Bijou!" the girl cried out in a passionate tone, "you wrong me, you do indeed. Give me your
full heart and your empty hands. I am rich in the world's wealth, let me share it with you;
give me that abundance of love you speak of, and I will be--Oh! so satisfied!"

A sinister smile passed over the averted face of the stranger, but the next moment, his arm
stole around the slender waist, and raising the tear-stained face to his own, he pressed a
long lingering kiss on the warm lips.

"If you will have it so," he said, "my love makes me selfish enough to comply, we can make
each other happy by following such a course, is that not enough? If I had sufficient means
at my disposal, I could complete all arrangements immediately, and there would be no further
suspense for either of us."

"But, Bijou, see how fortune has favored us. Last Tuesday was my birthday, and papa, to reconcile
me to my fate, gave me a cheque for my whole dowry, which I was not to have had for two years
more. You can see how circumstances favor our attachment."

"It looks like it darling; I hope we are doing the right thing," and his voice implied a painful
sense of conscientiousness.

Before parting they agreed to meet once more. Fifine persisted in offering her wealth, and
Bijou did not decline. She might bring him the cheque at their next meeting and trust to his
fond affection for the rest. He then bade her a tender farewell, and as she watched his departing
footsteps, she was delighted when he turned a last time, sajing gayly, "Au revoir, ma petite,
a demain." Then he disappeared in a bend of the road, and she walked slowly back to the house,
lost in the delicious labyrinths of loves young dream.

CHAPTER XXIII. Great volumes of leaden gray clouds were piling one over the other in the sulky
sky, the air was laden with an unshed moisture, and a threatening breeze rustled through the
dry, dusty leaves of the crowded elms. There was an unnatural stillness in Nature--everything
looked drowsy and tired, the boughs swayed and nodded, and the flowers hung their sleepy heads
like worn-out midnight watchers.

Fifine had hoped madly for the storm to keep off, and now as her fleet steps brought her nearer
the rendezvous at the end of the avenue, her heart misgave her, and an indescribable feeling
of awe, that had something of a dread presentiment in it, filled her very soul. She pressed
the cherished gift for her lover close against her heaving breast, and when she reached the
shady nook where they were accustomed to meet, her breath was coming in wild gasps, and her
eyes were dilated far beyond their natural size. She was a little too soon, but in her anxiety,
watchmg the clouds, the moments sped quickly by, until the arrival of the man she so madly adored.

He could not restrain a look of admiration as his eyes rested on her dark beauty. She had put
on her daintiest bonnet, with cardinal ribbons tied under her chin, and a bunch of crushed
camellias of the same becoming hue nestled against her shell-like ear. A light cashmere overdress
surmounted a petticoat of crimson velvet, and tiny jewels were fastened at her ears and throat.
The flush of excitement that mantled her fair young face, lent an additional charm to her countenance,
as she looked into her lover's face with all the eagei joy and confidence that filled her heart.

Bijou looked a little more serious than usual, as he knocked the ashes from the end of his cigar.

"Ma foi, you are enchanting to-night, Josephine," said he by way of greeting, "but as it looks
like a storm, we must make business brisk. I have come to-night, Fifine," he said, taking her
hand, "to ask a proof of the words you I uttered last night. I want you to show me bravely
that you do think a little of me."

"Only say the word, Bijou. Anything that is in my power. I will do it--anything that is not
her voice faltered.

"Is not what?" he asked very tenderly, bending over her, and then she regretted having doubted
him. How could he ask her anything that was not right? Poor Fifine.

"Never mind," she stammered, "I will do anything I can to prove the truth of last nights words."

"Darling" was the muttered answer "Come here, Fifine, nearer to me, I have something to show
to your eyes alone--something that has no real worth at present, but I which will be a sacred
thing in a little while."

Fifine, her eyes open wide, and a curious expression of wonder in her face, bent over his broad
shoulder. She saw nestling in its bed of ruby velvet, a plain gold band, tiny as her slender
finger, but rich and heavy.

She was slow to understand this silent surprise, and only said in a girlish way,

"How lovely it is."

Then Bijou looked earnestly at her, and his voice was almost mournful as he said.

"If it is beautiful as it lies there in its folds of velvet, meaningless and comparatively
useless, what would it be, do you think, were it a bond of union between two kindred souls--if
it laid the duties of love, honor and submission on one, those of love, respect and kindness
on the other, if it were the outward sign of a man's intense devotion and the safeguard of
a woman's honor, if it was a love that bound two creatures to each other first, and then to
their Creator--what then, Fifine?"

"Oh, Bijou '" she cried, "you excite me with such grave speeches. If it were all these things
it would indeed be sacred."

