The affairs of Asia Minor soon began to draw the attention of Agesilaus to that quarter.  The
assistance lent to Cyrus by the Spartans was no secret at the Persian court; and Tissaphernes,
who had been rewarded for his fidelity with the satrapy of Cyrus in addition to his own, no
sooner returned to his government than he attacked the Ionian cities, then under the protection
of Sparta.  A considerable Lacedaemonian force under Thimbron was despatched to their assistance,
and which, as related in the preceding chapter, was joined by the remnant of the Greeks who
had served under Cyrus.  Thimbron, however, proved so inefficient a commander, that he was
superseded at the end of 399 or beginning of 398 B.C., and Dercyllidas appointed in his place.
But though at first successful against Pharnabazus in AEolis, Dercyllidas was subsequently
surprised in Caria in such an unfavourable position that he would have suffered severely but
for the timidity of Tissaphernes, who was afraid to venture upon an action.  Under these circumstances
an armistice was agreed to for the purpose of treating for a peace (397 B.C.).

Pharnabazus availed himself of this armistice to make active preparations for a renewal of
the war.  He obtained large reinforcements of Persian troops, and began to organize a fleet
in Phoenicia and Cilicia.  This was intrusted to the Athenian admiral Conon, of whom we now
first hear again after a lapse of seven years since his defeat at AEgospotami.  After that
disastrous battle Conon fled with nine triremes to Cyprus, where he was now living under the
protection of Evagoras, prince of Salamis.

It was the news of these extensive preparations that induced Agesilaus, on the suggestion of
Lysander, to volunteer his services against the Persians.  He proposed to take with him only
30 full Spartan citizens, or peers, to act as a sort of council, together with 2000 Neodamodes,
or enfranchised Helots, and 6000 hoplites of the allies.  Lysander intended to be the leader
of the 30 Spartans, and expected through them to be the virtual commander of the expedition
of which Agesilaus was nominally the head.

Since the time of Agamemnon no Grecian king had led an army into Asia; and Agesilaus studiously
availed himself of the prestige of that precedent in order to attract recruits to his standard.
The Spartan kings claimed to inherit the sceptre of Agamemnon; and to render the parallel more
complete, Agesilaus proceeded with a division of his fleet to Aulis, intending there to imitate
the memorable sacrifice of the Homeric hero.  But as he had neglected to ask the permission
of the Thebans, and conducted the sacrifice and solemnities by means of his own prophets and
ministers, and in a manner at variance with the usual rites of the temple, the Thebans were
offended, and expelled him by armed force:--an insult which he never forgave.

It was in 396 B.C. that Agesilaus arrived at Ephesus and took the command in Asia.  He demanded
of the Persians the complete independence of the Greek cities in Asia; and in order that there
might be time to communicate with the Persian court, the armistice was renewed for three months.
During this interval of repose, Lysander, by his arrogance and pretensions, offended both Agesilaus
and the Thirty Spartans. Agesilaus, determined to uphold his dignity, subjected Lysander to
so many humiliations that he was at last fain to request his dismissal from Ephesus, and was
accordingly sent to the Hellespont, where he did good service to the Spartan interests.

Meanwhile Tissaphernes, having received large reinforcements, sent a message to Agesilaus before
the armistice had expired, ordering him to quit Asia.  Agesilaus immediately made preparations
as if he would attack Tissaphernes in Caria; but having thus put the enemy on a false scent,
he suddenly turned northwards into Phrygia, the satrapy of Pharnabazus, and marched without
opposition to the neighbourhood of Dascylium, the residence of the satrap himself.  Here, however,
he was repulsed by the Persian cavalry.  He now proceeded into winter quarters at Ephesus,
where he employed himself in organizing a body of cavalry to compete with the Persians.  During
the winter the army was brought into excellent condition; and Agesilaus gave out early in the
spring of 395 B.C. that he should march direct upon Sardis. He stood up and gazed out of the square
window in three indecision.

"tabea," he said presently, turning full in her and looking of her
now pale face light to the upturned, "i thought my secret would die
upon my breast, but you wring it from me.  When they at last came up, the newly raised Grecian
horse, assisted by the peltasts, and some of the younger and more active hoplites, soon succeeded
in putting them to flight.  Many of the Persians were drowned in the Pactolus, and their camp,
containing much booty and several camels, was taken.

Agesilaus now pushed his ravages up to the very gates of Sardis, the residence of Tissaphernes.
But the career of that timid and treacherous satrap was drawing to a close.  The queen-mother,
Parysatis, who had succeeded in regaining her influence over Artaxerxes, caused an order to
be sent down from Susa for his execution; in pursuance of which he was seized in a bath at
Colossae, and beheaded.  Tithraustes, who had been intrusted with the execution of this order,
succeeded Tissaphernes in the satrapy, and immediately reopened negotiations with Agesilaus.
An armistice of six months was concluded; and meanwhile Tithraustes, by a subsidy of 30 talents,
induced Agesilaus to move out of his satrapy into that of Pharnabazus.

During this march into Phrygia Agesilaus received a new commission from home, appointing him
the head of the naval as well as of the land force--two commands never before united in a single
Spartan.  He named his brother-in-law, Pisander, commander of the fleet.  But in the following
year (B.C. 394), whilst he was preparing an expedition on a grand scale into the interior of
Asia Minor, he was suddenly recalled home to avert the dangers which threatened his native country.

The jealousy and ill-will with which the newly acquired empire of the Spartans was regarded
by the other Grecian states had not escaped the notice of the Persians; and when Tithraustes
succeeded to the satrapy of Tissaphernes he resolved to avail himself of this feeling by exciting
a war against Sparta in the heart of Greece itself.  With this view he despatched one Timocrates,
a Rhodian, to the leading Grecian cities which appeared hostile to Sparta, carrying with him
a sum of 50 talents to be distributed among the chief men in each for the purpose of bringing
them over to the views of Persia.  Timocrates was successful in Thebes, Corinth, and Argos
but he appears not to have visited Athens.

Hostilities were at first confined to Sparta and Thebes.  A quarrel having arisen between the
Opuntian Locrians and the Phocians respecting a strip of border land, the former people appealed
to the Thebans, who invaded Phocis.  The Phocians on their side invoked the aid of the Lacedaemonians,
who, elated with the prosperous state of their affairs in Asia, and moreover desirous of avenging
the affronts they had received from the Thebans, readily listened to the appeal.  Lysander,
who took an active part in promoting the war, was directed to attack the town of Haliartus;
and it was arranged that King Pausanias should join him on a fixed day under the walls of that
town, with the main body of the Lacedaemonians and their Peloponnesian allies.

