A farm without a fruit garden may justly be regarded as proof of a low state of civilization
in the farmer. No country home should be without such simple means of health and happiness.
For obvious reasons, however, there is not, and never can be, the same room for fruit raising
as there is for grain, grass, and stock farming. Nevertheless, the opportunities to engage
with profit in this industry on a large scale are increasing every year. From being a luxury
of a few, the small fruits have become an article of daily food to the million. Even the country
village must have its supply, and the number of crates that are shipped from New York city
to neighboring towns is astonishingly large. As an illustration of the rapidly enlarging demand
for these fruits, let us consider the experience of one Western city, Cincinnati. Mr. W. H.
Corbly, who is there regarded as one of the best informed on these subjects, has gathered the
following statistics: "In 1835 it was regarded as a most wonderful thing that 100 bushels of
strawberries could be disposed of on the Cincinnati market in one day, and was commented on
as a great event. A close estimate shows that during the summer of 1879 eighty to eighty-five
thousand bushels of strawberries were sold in Cincinnati. Of course, a large part of these
berries were shipped away, but it is estimated that nearly one half were consumed here. About
the year 1838 the cultivation of black raspberries was commenced in this county by James Gallagher
and F. A. McCormick of Salem, Anderson township. The first year, Gallagher's largest shipment
in one day was six bushels, and McCormick's four. When they were placed on the market, McCormick
sold out at 6 1/4 cents per quart, and Gallagher held off till McCormick had sold out, when
he put his on sale and obtained 8 1/8 cents per quart, and the demand was fully supplied. It
is estimated that the crop for the year 1879, handled in Cincinnati, amounted to from seventy-five
thousand to eighty thousand bushels--the crop being a fairly good one--selling at an average
of about two dollars per bushel." It has been stated in "The Country Gentleman" that about
$5,000,000 worth of small fruits were sold in Michigan in one year; and the same authority
estimates that $25,000,000 worth are consumed annually in New York city. In the future it would
seem that this demand would increase even more rapidly; for in every fruit-growing region immense
canning establishments are coming into existence, to which the markets of the world are open.
Therefore, in addition to the thousands already embarked in this industry, still larger numbers
will engage in it during the next few years.

Those who now for the first time are turning their attention toward this occupation may be
divided mainly into two classes. The first consists of established farmers, who, finding markets
within their reach, extend their patches of raspberries, currants, or strawberries to such
a degree that they have a surplus to sell. To the extent that such sales are remunerative,
they increase the area of fruits, until in many instances they become virtually fruit farmers.
More often a few acres are devoted to horticulture, and the rest of the farm is carried on
in the old way.

The second class is made up chiefly of those who are unfamiliar with the soil and its culture--mechanics,
professional men, who hope to regain health by coming back to nature, and citizens whose ill-success
or instincts suggest country life and labors. From both these classes, and especially from
the latter, I receive very many letters, containing all kinds of questions. The chief burden
on most minds, however, is summed up in the words, "Do small fruits pay?" To meet the needs
of these two classes is one of the great aims of this work; and it is my most earnest wish
not to mislead by high-colored pictures.

Small fruits pay many people well; and unless location, soil, or climate is hopelessly against
one, the degree of profit will depend chiefly upon his skill, judgment and industry. The raising
of small fruits is like other callings, in which some are getting rich, more earning a fair
livelihood, and not a few failing. It is a business in which there is an abundance of sharp,
keen competition; and ignorance, poor judgment, and shiftless, idle ways will be as fatal as
in the workshop, store, or office.

Innumerable failures result from inexperience. I will give one extreme example, which may serve
to illustrate, the sanguine mental condition of many who read of large returns in fruit culture.
A young man who had inherited a few hundred dollars wrote me that he could hire a piece of
land for a certain amount, and he wished to invest the balance--every cent--in plants, thus
leaving himself no capital with which to continue operations, but expecting that a speedy crop
would lift him at once into a prosperous career. I wrote that under the circumstances I could
not supply him--that it would be about the same as robbery to do so; and advised him to spend
several years with a practical and successful fruit grower and learn the business.

Most people enter upon this calling in the form of a wedge; but only too many commence at the
blunt end, investing largely at once in everything, and therefore their business soon tapers
down to nothing. The wise begin at the point of the wedge and develop their calling naturally,
healthfully--learning, by experience and careful observation, how to grow fruits profitably,
and which kinds pay the best. There ought also to be considerable capital to start with, and
an absence of the crushing burden of interest money. No fruits yield any returns before the
second or third year; and there are often Unfavorable seasons and glutted markets. Nature's
prizes are won by patient, persistent industry, and not by Wall Street sleight of hand.

Location is very important. A fancy store, however well-furnished, would be a ruinous investment
at a country crossroad. The fruit farm must be situated where there is quick and cheap access
to good markets, and often the very best market may be found at a neighboring village, summer
resort, or canning establishment. Enterprise and industry, however, seem to surmount all obstacles.
The Rev. Mr. Knox shipped his famous "700" strawberries (afterward known to be the Jucunda,
a foreign variety) from Pittsburgh to New York, securing large returns; and, take the country
over, the most successful fruit farms seem to be located where live men live and work. Still,
if one were about to purchase, sound judgment would suggest a very careful choice of locality
with speedy access to good markets. Mr. J. J. Thomas, editor of "The Country Gentleman," in
a paper upon the Outlook of  Fruit Culture, read before the Western N. Y. Horticultural Society,
laid down three essentials to success: 1. Locality--a region found by experience to be adapted
to fruit growing. 2. Wise selection of varieties of each kind. 3. Care and culture of these
varieties. He certainly is excellent authority.

These obvious considerations, and the facts that have been instanced, make it clear that brains
must unite with labor and capital. Above all, however, there must be trained, practical skill.
Those succeed who learn how; and to add a little deftness to unskilled hands is the object
of every succeeding page. At the same time, I frankly admit that nothing can take the place
of experience. I once asked an eminent physician if a careful reading of the best medical text-books
and thorough knowledge of the materia medica could take the place of daily study of actual
disease and fit a man for practice, and he emphatically answered, "No!" It is equally true
that an intelligent man can familiarize himself with every horticultural writer from the classic
age to our own and yet be outstripped in success by an ignorant Irish laborer who has learned
the little he knows in the school of experience. The probabilities are, however, that the laborer
will remain such all his days, while the thoughtful, reading man, who is too sensible to be
carried away by theories, and who supplements his science with experience, may enrich not only
himself but the world.

Still, there is no doubt that the chances of success are largely in favor of the class I first
named,--the farmers who turn their attention in part or wholly toward fruit growing. They are
accustomed to hard out-of-door work and the general principles of agriculture. The first is
always essential to success; and a good farmer can soon become equally skillful in the care
of fruits if he gives his mind to their culture. The heavy, stupid, prejudiced plodder who
thinks a thing is right solely because his grandfather did it, is a bucolic monster that is
receding so fast into remote wilds before the horticultural press that he scarcely need be
taken into account. Therefore, the citizen or professional man inclined to engage in fruit
farming should remember that he must compete with the hardy, intelligent sons of the soil,
who in most instances are crowning their practical experience with careful reading. I do not
say this to discourage any one, but only to secure a thoughtful and adequate consideration
of the subject before the small accumulations of years are embarked in what may be a very doubtful
venture. Many have been misled to heavy loss by enthusiastic works on horticulture; I wish
my little book to lead only to success.

If white-handed, hollow-chested professional men anxious to acquire money, muscle, and health
by fruit raising,--if citizens disgusted with pavements and crowds are willing to take counsel
of common-sense and learn the business practically and thoroughly, why should they not succeed?
But let no one imagine that horticulture is the final resort of ignorance, indolence, or incapacity,
physical or mental. Impostors palm themselves off on the world daily; a credulous public takes
poisonous nostrums by the ton and butt; but Nature recognizes error every time, and quietly
thwarts those who try to wrong her, either wilfully or blunderingly.

Mr. Peter Henderson, who has been engaged practically in vegetable gardening for over a quarter
of a century, states, as a result of his experience, that capital, at the rate of $300 per
acre, is required in starting a "truck farm," and that the great majority fail who make the
attempt with less means. In my opinion, the fruit farmer would require capital in like proportion;
for, while many of the small fruits can be grown with less preparation of soil and outlay in
manure, the returns come more slowly, since, with the exception of strawberries, none of them
yield a full crop until the third or fourth year. I advise most urgently against the incurring
of heavy debts. Better begin with three acres than thirty, or three hundred, from which a large
sum of interest money must be obtained before a penny can be used for other purposes. Anything
can be raised from a farm easier than a mortgage.

Success depends very largely, also, on the character of the soil. If it is so high and dry
as to suffer severely from drought two years out of three, it cannot be made to pay except
by irrigation; if so low as to be wet, rather than moist, the prospects are but little better.
Those who are permanently settled must do their best with such land as they have, and in a
later chapter I shall suggest how differing soils should be managed. To those who can still
choose their location, I would recommend a deep mellow loam, with a rather compact subsoil,--
moist, but capable of thorough drainage. Diversity of soil and exposure offer peculiar advantages
also. Some fruits thrive best in a stiff clay, others in sandy upland. Early varieties ripen
earlier on a sunny slope, while a late kind is rendered later on a northern hillside, or in
the partial shade of a grove. In treating each fruit and variety, I shall try to indicate the
soils and exposures to which they are best adapted.

Profits.--The reader will naturally wish for some definite statements of the profits of fruit
farming; but I almost hesitate to comply with this desire. A gentleman wrote to me that he
sold from an acre of Cuthbert raspberries $800 worth of fruit. In view of this fact, not a
few will sit down and begin to figure,--"If one acre yielded $800, ten acres would produce
$8,000; twenty acres $16,000," etc. Multitudes have been led into trouble by this kind of reasoning.
The capacity of an engine with a given motor power can be measured, and certain and unvarying
results predicted; but who can measure the resources of an acre through varying seasons and
under differing culture, or foretell the price of the crops? In estimating future profits,
we can only approximate; and the following records are given merely to show what results have
been secured, and therefore may be obtained again, and even surpassed. "The Country Gentleman"
gives a well-authenticated instance of a fruit grower who "received more than $2,000 from three
acres of strawberries." In contrast, however, it could be shown that many fields have not paid
expenses. I once had such an experience. The market was "glutted," and the variety yielded
berries so small and poor that they did not average five cents per quart. Occasionally we hear
of immense shipments from the South being thrown into the dock.

Mr. William Parry, a veteran fruit grower in New Jersey, states the truth I wish to convey
very clearly, and gives a fair mean between these two extremes:

"YIELD AND PROFIT

"There are so many circumstances connected with strawberry growing, such as varieties, soil,
climate, location, markets, and the skill and management of the grower, that the results of
a few cases cannot be relied on for general rules.

"We have grown over two hundred bushels per acre here, and realized upward of six hundred dollars
per acre for the crop; but that is much above the general average. Having kept a careful record,
for fourteen years past, of the yield per acre and price per quart at which our strawberries
have been sold, we find the average to be about 2,500 quarts per acre, and the price eleven
cents per quart in market, giving the following results:

    "Commissions, 10 per cent                 $27.50
     Picking 2,500 quarts, at 2c. per quart    50.00
     Manure                                    17.50
     Use of baskets                            10.00
     Cultivation, etc                          25.00
     Net profits per acre                     145.00

    "Gross proceeds, 2,500 quarts at 11e     $275.00"

In the year 1876 the same gentleman had ten acres of Brandywine raspberries that yielded about
eighty-two bushels to the acre, giving a clear profit of $280, or of $2,800 for the entire
area. This crop, so far from being the average, was awarded a premium as the most profitable
that year in the section.

J. R. Gaston & Sons, of Normal, Ill., have given the following record of a plantation of Snyder
blackberries: "We commenced to pick a field of seven acres July 12th, and finished picking
August 22. The total amount gathered was 43,575 quarts, equal to 1,361 bushels and 22 quarts.
The average price was eight cents per quart, making the gross proceeds equal to $3,486. We
paid for picking $435.75. The cost of trimming and cultivating was about $400; cost of boxes,
crates, and marketing was $1,307.25, leaving a net profit of $1,343."

A gentleman in Ulster Co., N.Y., stated that 200 bushes of the Cherry currant yielded him in
one season 1,000 lbs. of fruit, which was sold at an average of eight cents per pound. His
gross receipts were $80 from one-fourteenth of an acre, and at the same ratio an acre would
have yielded $1,120. Is this an average yield? So far from it, there are many acres of currants
and gooseberries that do not pay expenses. Thus it can be seen that the scale ranges from marvellous
prizes down to blanks and heavy losses; but the drawing is not a game of chance, but usually
the result of skill and industry, or their reverse.

I might have given many examples of large, and even enormously large, profits obtained under
exceptional circumstances; but they tend to mislead. I write for those whose hearts prompt
them to co-work with nature, and who are most happy when doing her bidding in the breezy fields
and gardens, content with fair rewards, instead of being consumed by the gambler's greed for
unearned gold. At the same time, I am decidedly in favor of high culture, and the most generous
enriching of the soil; convinced that fruit growers and farmers in general would make far more
money if they spent upon one acre what they usually expend on three. In a later chapter will
be found an instance of an expenditure of $350 per acre on strawberry land, and the net profits
obtained were proportionately large.

CHAPTER IV

STRAWBERRIES: THE FIVE SPECIES AND THEIR HISTORY

The conscientious Diedrich Knickerbocker, that venerated historian from whom all good citizens
of New York obtain the first impressions of their ancestry, felt that he had no right to chronicle
the vicissitudes of Manhattan Island until he had first accounted for the universe of which
it is a part. Equally with the important bit of land named, the strawberry belongs to the existing
cosmos, and might be traced back to "old chaos." I hasten to re-assure the dismayed reader.
I shall not presume to follow one who could illumine his page with genius, and whose extensive
learning enabled him to account for the universe not merely in one but in half a dozen ways.

It is the tendency of the present age to ask what is, not what has been or shall be. And yet,
on the part of some, as they deliberately enjoy a saucer of strawberries and cream,--it is
a pleasure that we prolong for obvious reasons,--a languid curiosity may arise as to the origin
and history of so delicious a fruit. I suppose Mr. Darwin would say, "it was evolved." But
some specimens between our lips suggest that a Geneva watch could put itself together quite
as readily. At the same time, it must be said that our "rude forefathers" did not eat Monarch
or Charles Downing strawberries. In few fruits, probably, have there been such vast changes
or improvements as in this. Therefore, I shall answer briefly and as well as I can, in view
of the meagre data and conflicting opinions of the authorities, the curiosity, that I have
imagined on some faces. Those who care only for the strawberry of to-day can easily skip a
few pages.

If there were as much doubt about a crop of this fruit as concerning the origin of its name,
the outlook would be dismal, indeed. In old Saxon, the word was streawberige or streowberrie;
and was so named, says one authority, "from the straw-like stems of the plant, or from the
berries lying strewn upon the ground." Another authority tells us: "It is an old English practice"
(let us hope a modern one also) "to lay straw between the rows to preserve the fruit from rotting
on the wet ground, from which the name has been supposed to be derived; although more probably
it is from the wandering habit of the plant, straw being a corruption of the Anglo-Saxon strae,
from which we have the English verb stray." Again tradition asserts that in the olden times
children strung the berries on straws for sale, and hence the name. Several other causes have
been suggested, but I forbear. I have never known, however, a person to decline the fruit on
the ground of this obscurity and doubt. (Controversialists and sceptics please take note.)

That the strawberry should belong to the rose family, and that its botanical name should be
fragaria, from the Latin fragro, to smell sweetly, will seem both natural and appropriate.

While for his knowledge of the plant I refer the reader to every hillside and field (would
that I might say, to every garden!), there is a peculiarity in the production of the fruit
which should not pass unnoted. Strictly speaking, the small seeds scattered over the surface
of the berry are the fruit, and it is to perfect these seeds that the plants blossom, the stamens
scatter, and the pistils receive the pollen on the convex receptacle, which, as the seeds ripen,
greatly enlarges, and becomes the pulpy and delicious mass that is popularly regarded as the
fruit. So far from being the fruit, it is only "the much altered end of the stem" that sustains
the fruit or seeds; and so it becomes a beautiful illustration of a kindly, genuine courtesy,
which renders an ordinary service with so much grace and graciousness that we dwell on the
manner with far more pleasure than on the service itself. The innumerable varieties of strawberries
that are now in existence appear, either in their character or origin, to belong to five great
and quite distinct species. The first, and for a long time the only one of which we have any
record, is the Fragaria vesca, or the "Alpine" strawberry. It is one of the most widely spread
fruits of the world, for it grows, and for centuries has grown, wild throughout Northern and
Central Europe and Asia, following the mountains far to the south; and on this continent, from
time immemorial, the Indian children have gathered it, from the Northern Atlantic to the Pacific.
In England this species exhibits some variation from the Alpine type, and was called by our
ancestors the Wood strawberry. The chief difference between the two is in the form of the fruit,
the Wood varieties being round and the Alpine conical. They are also subdivided into white
and red, annual and monthly varieties, and those that produce no runners, which are known to-day
as Bush Alpines.

The Alpine, as we find it growing wild, was the strawberry of the ancients.

There is no proof, I believe, that the strawberry was cultivated during any of the earlier
civilizations. Some who wrote most explicitly concerning the fruit culture of their time do
not mention it; and Virgil, Ovid, and Pliny name it but casually, and with no reference to
its cultivation. It may appear a little strange that the luxurious Romans, who fed on nightingales'
tongues, peacocks' brains, and scoured earth and air for delicacies, should have given but
little attention to this fruit. Possibly they early learned the fact that this species is essentially
a wildling, and like the trailing arbutus, thrives best in its natural haunts. The best that
grew could be gathered from mountain-slopes and in the crevices of rocks. Moreover, those old
revellers became too wicked and sensual to relish Alpine strawberries.

Its congener, the Wood strawberry, was the burden of one of the London street cries four hundred
years ago; and to-day the same cry, in some language or other, echoes around the northern hemisphere
as one of the inevitable and welcome sounds of spring and early summer.

But few, perhaps, associate this lovely little fruit, that is almost as delicate and shy as
the anemone, with tragedy; and yet its chief poetical associations are among the darkest and
saddest that can be imagined. Shakespeare's mention of the strawberry in the play of Richard
III. was an unconscious but remarkable illustration of the second line already quoted from
Virgil:--

     "Lo, hid within the grass an adder lies."

The bit of history which is the occasion of this allusion is given in the quaint old English
of Sir Thomas More, who thus describes the entrance to the Council of the terrible "Protector,"
from whom nothing good or sacred could be protected. He came "fyrste about IX of the clocke,
saluting them curtesly, and excusing himself that he had been from them so long, saieing merily
that he had been a slepe that day. And after a little talking with them he said unto the bishop
of Elye, my lord, You have very good strawberries at your gardayne in Holberne, I require you
let us have a messe of them." He who has raised fine fruit will know how eagerly the flattered
bishop obeyed. According to the poet, the dissembler also leaves the apartment, with his unscrupulous
ally, Buckingham.

   "Where is my lord protector? I have sent
    For these strawberries,"

said the Bishop of Ely, re-entering.

Lord Hastings looks around with an air of general congratulation, and remarks:--

   "His grace looks cheerfully and smooth this morning;
    There's some conceit or other likes him well."

The serpent is hidden, but very near. A moment later, Gloster enters, black as night, hisses
his monstrous charge, and before noon of that same day poor Hastings is a headless corpse.

Far more sad and pitiful are the scenes recalled by the words of the fiendish Iago,--type for
all time of those who transmute love into jealousy:--

        "Tell me but this--
    Have you not sometimes seen a handkerchief,
    Spotted with strawberries, in your wife's hand?"
    "I gave her such a one; 'twas my first gift."

was the answer of a man whom the world will never forgive, in spite of his immeasurable remorse.

From the poet Spenser we learn that to go a-strawberrying was one of the earliest pastimes
of the English people. In the "Faerie Queen" we find these lines:--

   "One day, as they all three together went
        To the green wood to gather strawberries,
    There chaunst to them a dangerous accident."

Very old, too is the following nursery rhyme, which, nevertheless, suggests the true habitat
of the F. vesca species:--

   "The man of the wilderness asked me
    How many strawberries grew in the sea;
    I answered him, as I thought good,
    'As many red herrings as grew in the wood.'"

The ambrosial combination of strawberries and cream was first named by Sir Philip Sidney. Old
Thomas Tusser, of the 16th century, in his work, "Five Hundred Points of Good Husbandry united
to as many of Good Housewifery," turns the strawberry question over to his wife, and doubtless
it was in better hands than his, if his methods of culture were as rude as his poetry:--

   "Wife, into the garden, and set me a plot
    With strawberry roots, of the best to be got;
    Such, growing abroad, among thorns in the wood,
    Well chosen and picked prove excellent good."

Who "Dr. Boteler" was, or what he did, is unknown, but he made a sententious remark which led
Izaak Walton to give him immortality in his work, "The Compleat Angler." If this was true of
the wild Wood strawberry, how much more so of many of our aromatic rubies of to-day.

John Parkinson, the apothecary-gardener of London, whose quaint work was published in 1629,
is not so enthusiastic.

In England, the strawberry leaf is part of the insignia of high rank, since it appears in the
coronets of a duke, marquis, and earl. "He aspires to the strawberry leaves" is a well-known
phrase abroad, and the idea occurs several times in the novels of Disraeli, the present British
Premier. Thackeray, in his "Book of Snobs," writes: "The strawberry leaves on her chariot panels
are engraved on her ladyship's heart."

After all, perhaps it is not strange that the Alpine species should be allied to some dark
memories, for it was the only kind known when the age was darkened by passion and crime.

