Meantime the German advance had been steady and considerable. All these attacks follow the
same course--Ypres, Artois, Champagne, Dunajec. There is first the tremendous artillery concentration
of the assailant; then the bombardment which abolishes the first and second line trenches of
the defenders; then the infantry attack which takes these ruined trenches and almost invariably
many thousands of prisoners and scores of guns. But now the situation changes. The assailant
has passed beyond the effective range of his own heavy artillery, which cannot be immediately
advanced because of its weight; he encounters a line of trenches that has not been levelled,
he has come under the concentrated fire of his foe's heavy and light artillery without the
support of his own heavy artillery, and all the advantage of surprise has gone.

What happened at Verdun is what happened in the Champagne. The German advance was quite as
successful--rather more successful than the French last September; it covered three or four
miles on a considerable front, and it even reached Douaumont, one of the old forts and the
fort which was placed on the highest hill in the environs of Verdun. Thousands of prisoners
had been captured and many guns taken. But at this point the French resistance stiffened, as
had the German last year. French reserves and artillery arrived. Pétain and Castelnau arrived.
There was an end of the rapid advance and there began the pounding, grinding attack in which
the advantage passed to the defender. It was just what happened at Neuve Chapelle so long ago
when we first saw this kind of fighting exemplified completely.

In the new attacks the Germans still gained ground, but they gained ground because the French
withdrew from positions made untenable through the original German advance at other points.
They consolidated their line, organized their new front. Ten days after the attack had begun
it had ceased to be a question of Verdun, just as in a shorter time the French had realized
last September that they could not break the German line in Champagne. But like the French
in Champagne, like the British at Neuve Chapelle, the Germans persevered, and in consequence
suffered colossal losses, exactly as the French and British had.

To understand the German tactics you must recognize two things. The Germans had expected to
take Verdun, and they had unquestionably known that the French military command did not intend
at the outset to hold the town. They had advertised the coming victory far and wide over the
world; they had staked much upon it. Moreover, in the first days, when they had taken much
ground, when they had got Douaumont and could look down into Verdun, they had every reason
to believe that they possessed the key to the city and that the French high command was slowly
but steadily drawing back its lines and would presently evacuate the city.

Knowing these things you can understand why the Germans were so confident. They did not invent
stories of coming victory which they did not believe. They believed that Verdun was to fall
because they knew, and the same thing was known and mentioned in London. I heard it there when
the battle was in its earlier stages--that the French high command intended to evacuate Verdun.
What they did not know and could not know was that the French politicians, perhaps one should
say statesmen this time, had interfered, that the French high command had yielded and that
Verdun was to be defended to the last ditch.

When this decision was made the end of the real German advance was almost instantaneous. All
that has happened since has been nothing but active trench war, violent fighting, desperate
charge and counter charge, a material shortening of the French line at certain points, the
abolition of minor salients, but of actual progress not the smallest. The advance stopped before
lines on which Pétain elected to make his stand when he came with his army to defend Verdun.
The Germans are still several miles outside of Verdun itself, and only at Douaumont have they
touched the line of the exterior forts, which before the war were expected to defend the city.

In Paris and elsewhere you will be told that Douaumont was occupied without resistance and
that it was abandoned under orders before there had been a decision to hold Verdun. I do not
pretend to know whether this is true or not, although I heard it on authority that was wholly
credible, but the fact that the map discloses, that I saw for myself at Verdun, is that, save
for Douaumont, none of the old forts have been taken and that the Germans have never been able
to advance a foot from Douaumont or reach the other forts at any other point. And this is nothing
more or less than the French experience at Champagne, the German experience about Ypres in 1915.

In a later chapter I hope to discuss the situation at Verdun as I saw it on April 6th, and
also the miracle of motor transport which played so great a part in the successful defence
of the position. But the military details are wholly subordinate to the moral. All France was
roused by a successful defence of a position attacked by Germany with the advertised purpose
of breaking the spirit of the French people. The battle was fought in the plain daylight without
the smallest concealment, and the least-informed reader of the official reports could grasp
the issue which was the fate of the city of Verdun.

The fact, known to a certain number of Frenchmen only, that the defence was improvised after
the decision had been made to evacuate the whole salient, serves for them to increase the meaning
of the victory as it increases the real extent of the French exploit. But this is a detail.
The Germans openly, deliberately, after long preparation, announced their purpose, used every
conceivable bit of strength they could bring to bear to take Verdun, and told their own people
not merely that Verdun would fall, but at one moment that it had fallen. They did this with
the firm conviction that it would fall--was falling.

The French were steadily aware that Verdun might be lost. They knew from letters coming daily
from the front how terrible the struggle was, and it is impossible to exaggerate the tension
of the early days, although it was not a tension of panic or fear. Paris did not expect to
see the invader, and there was nothing of this sort of moonshine abroad. But it was plain that
the fall of the town would bring a tremendous wave of depression and if not despair yet a real
reduction of hope. Instead, Verdun defended itself, the lines were maintained several miles
on the other side of the town and all substantial advance came to an end in the first two weeks.
The army itself, the military observers, were convinced that all danger was over as early as
the second week in March, when correspondents of French newspapers were being taken to Verdun
to see the situation and tell the people the facts.

All over Northern France, and I was in many towns and cities, the "lift" that Verdun had brought
was unmistakable and French confidence was everywhere evident. It showed itself in a spontaneous
welcome to Alexander of Serbia in Paris, which, I am told, was the first thing of the sort
in the war period. Frenchmen did not say that Verdun was the beginning of the end, and they
did not forecast the prompt collapse of Germany. They did not even forecast the immediate end
of the fighting about Verdun. They did not regard the victory as a Waterloo or a Sedan or any
other foolish thing. But they did rather coolly and quite calmly appraise the thing and see
in it the biggest German failure since the Marne, and a failure in a fight which the Germans
had laid down all the conditions in advance and advertised the victory that they did not achieve
as promising the collapse of French endurance and spirit.

The Battle of Verdun was a battle for moral values, and the possession of the town itself was
never of any real military value. Verdun commands nothing, and behind it lie well-prepared
fortifications on dominating heights, positions that are ten times as easy to defend as those
which the French have defended. It was not a battle for Paris, and there was never a prospect
of the piercing of the French line; Germany was never as near a great military success as she
was at Ypres after the first gas attack a year ago. The French army leaders judged the Verdun
position as not worth the cost of defending. They were overruled by the politicians and they
defended it successfully. But their first decision is the best evidence of the wholly illusory
value that has been attached to the possession of Verdun itself.

The politicians were unquestionably right as to the moral value, and it is possible if not
probable that the relinquishment of the city voluntarily might have precipitated the fall of
the Briand Ministry and the creation of a Committee of Public Safety--not to make peace, but
to make war successfully. The will to defend Verdun came from the French people, it imposed
itself upon the army and it resulted in a moral victory the consequences of which cannot be
exaggerated and have given new heart and confidence to a people whose courage and determination
must make an enduring impression on any one who sees France in the present terrible but glorious
time.

IV

VERDUN, THE DOOR THAT LEADS NOWHERE

    THE BATTLE AND THE TOPOGRAPHY OF THE BATTLEFIELD--AN ANALYSIS
    OF THE ATTACK AND DEFENCE

In a preceding article I have endeavored to explain the tremendous moral "lift" that the successful
defence of the city of Verdun has brought to France, a moral "lift" which has roused French
confidence and expectation of ultimate victory to the highest point since the war began. I
have also tried to demonstrate how utterly without value the fortress of Verdun was, because
the forts were of no use in the present war, were as useless against German heavy artillery
as those of Antwerp and Maubeuge, and had been evacuated by the French a full eighteen months
before the present battle began. Finally I have indicated that so little military value was
attached to Verdun by the French high command that it was prepared to evacuate the whole position,
which is the most difficult to defend on the whole French front, and was only persuaded to
give over his purpose by the arguments of the politicians, who believed that the moral effect
of the evacuation would be disastrous to France and inspiriting to Germany.

I now desire to describe at some length the actual topographical circumstances of Verdun and
later I shall discuss the fashion in which an automobile transport system was improvised to
meet the situation created by the interruption of traffic by German artillery fire along the
two considerable railroad lines. It was this system which actually saved the town and is the
real "miracle of Verdun," if one is to have miracles to explain what brave and skilful men do.

I saw Verdun on April 6th. I went through the city, which was little more than a mass of ashes,
with General Dubois, the military governor of the town itself, and with him I went to Fort
de la Chaume, on one of the highest hills near Verdun, and from this vantage point had the
whole countryside explained to me. The day on which I visited Verdun was the first completely
quiet day in weeks, and I was thus fortunate in being able to see and to go about without the
disturbing or hindering circumstances which are incident to a bombardment.

The city of Verdun is situated at the bottom of the Meuse Valley on both sides of the river.
But the main portion of the town is on the west bank and surrounds a low hill, crowned by the
cathedral and old Vauban citadel. The town is surrounded by old ramparts, long ago deprived
of military value and belonging, like the citadel, to eighteenth century warfare. The Valley
of the Meuse is here several miles wide, as flat as your hand, and the river, which is small
but fairly deep, a real obstacle since it cannot be forded, wanders back and forth from one
side of the valley to the other. Below Verdun it is doubled, as a military obstacle, by the
Canal de l'Est.

If you put a lump of sugar in a finger bowl you will pretty fairly reproduce the Verdun topography.
The lump of sugar will represent Verdun, the rim of the bowl the hills around the city, the
interior of the bowl the little basin in which the city stands. This rim of hills, which rise
some five or six hundred feet above the town itself, is broken on the west by a deep and fairly
narrow trough which comes into the Meuse Valley and connects it some thirty miles to the west
with the Plain of Châlons. If you should look down upon this region from an aeroplane this
furrow would look like a very deep gutter cutting far into the tangle of hills.

Now in the warfare of other centuries the value of the Verdun fortress was just this: the furrow
which I have described is the one avenue available for an invading army coming from the east
out of Metz or south from Luxemburg and aiming to get into the Plain of Châlons to the west.
It is the way the Prussians came in 1792 and were defeated at Valmy, at the western entrance
of the trough about thirty miles away. They took Verdun on their way--so did the Germans in 1870.

Verdun in French hands closed this trough to the invaders.

It closed it because the low hill which bears the town was strongly fortified and was surrounded
by lower ground. Such artillery as was in existence was not of a sufficiently long range to
place upon the hills about Verdun which we have described as the rim of the bowl. The town
of Verdun was situated on both sides of the river and commanded all the bridges. It was, in
fact, the stopple in the mouth of the bottle-neck passage leading into North Central France,
the passage through which ran the main road and, later, the railway from the frontier nearest
Paris to the capital.

But when the modern developments of artillery came, then Verdun, the old fortress that Vauban
built for Louis XIV, lost its value. It was commanded by the surrounding hills and the French
moved out of the town and the Vauban fortifications and built on the surrounding hills, on
the rim, to go back to our figure, the forts which were the defence of the town when the present
war began, forts arranged quite like those of Liège or Antwerp and some four or five miles
away from the town. But bear in mind these forts were designed, like the old fortress and fortifications
of the eighteenth century, to bar the road from the Meuse and from Germany to the Plain of
Châlons and the level country west of the Argonne. When the Germans came south through Belgium
and got into the Plain of Châlons from the north they had turned the whole Verdun position
and had got into the region it barred by another route; they had come in by the back door;
Verdun was the front. Not only that, but they are there now and have been there ever since
the first days of September, 1914.

When one hears about Verdun as the gateway to Paris or anything else one hears about the Verdun
of the past. It was not the door to Paris but the outer door to the region around Paris, to
the Plains of Champagne and Châlons. But as the Germans are already in these plains the taking
of Verdun now would not bring them nearer to Paris; they are only fifty miles away at Noyon,
on the Oise, and they would be 160 at Verdun if they took the city. If they took Verdun they
would get control of the Paris-Metz Railway, and if they then drove the French away from the
trough we have been describing they would get a short line into France, and a line coming from
German territory directly, not passing through Belgium. But they would not be nearer to Paris.

When the French saw, in the opening days of the war, that forts were of no permanent value
against the German guns they left the forts on the hills above Verdun as they had abandoned
the Vauban works and moved north for a few miles. Here they dug trenches, mounted their guns
in concealed positions, and stood on the defensive, as they were standing elsewhere from Belgium
to Switzerland. There was now no fortress of Verdun, and Verdun city was nothing but a point
behind the lines of trenches, a point like Rheims, or Arras. The forts of the rim were equally
of no more importance and were now empty of guns or garrisons. If the Germans, by a sudden
attack, broke all the way through the French trenches here it would be quite as serious as
if they broke through at other points, but no more so. There was no fortress of Verdun and
the Verdun position commanded nothing.

The Battle of Verdun, as it is disclosed to an observer who stands on Fort de la Chaume, a
mile or two west and above Verdun and in the mouth of the trough we have described, was this:
On the west bank of the Meuse, four or five miles northwest of the town, there is a steep ridge
going east and west and perhaps 1,100 feet high. This is the crest of Charny, and it rises
sharply from the flat valley and marches to the west without a break for some miles. On it
are the old forts of the rim.

Three or four miles still to the north is a line of hills which are separated from each other
by deep ravines leading north and south. Two of these hills, Le Mort Homme (Dead Man's Hill)
and Hill 304, have been steadily in the reports for many weeks. They are the present front
of the French. Between one and two miles still to the north are other confused and tangled
hills facing north, and it was here that the French lines ran when the great attack began in
the third week of February. On this side the Germans have advanced rather less than two miles;
they have not reached the Charny Ridge, which is the true and last line of defence of the Verdun
position, and they have not captured the two hills to the north, which are the advanced position,
now the first line.

When I was in Paris before I went to Verdun there was a general belief that the French might
ultimately abandon the two outer hills, Dead Man's and 304, and come back to the Charny Ridge,
which is a wall running from the river west without a break for miles. Apparently this has
not been found necessary, but what is worth noting is that if these hills were evacuated it
would not mean the withdrawal from Verdun but only to the best line of defence (the last line,
to be sure), which includes the town itself.

Now, east of the river the situation is materially different. Between the Meuse and the level
plateau, which appears in the dispatches from the front as the Woevre, is a long, narrow ridge,
running from north to south for perhaps thirty-five or forty miles. This is the Côte de Meuse,
or, translated, the Hills of the Meuse. The range is never more than ten miles wide and at
many points less than half as wide. On the west it rises very sharply from the Meuse and on
the east it breaks down quite as abruptly into the Woevre Plain. It cannot be effectively approached
from the Woevre, because the Woevre is an exceedingly marshy plain, with much sub-surface water
and in spring a mass of liquid clay.

Now the French, when the German drive began, stood on this ridge some eight miles, rather less,
perhaps, to the north of the town of Verdun; their line ran from the Meuse straight east along
this ridge and then turned at right angles and came south along the eastern edge of the Meuse
Hills and the shore of the Woevre Plain until it touched the river again at St. Mihiel, twenty
miles to the south, where the Germans had broken through the Meuse Hills and reached the river.
The German attack came south along the crest of this ridge because the German heavy artillery
could not be brought over the Woevre.

About halfway between the French front and Verdun, on a little crest somewhat higher than the
main ridge, the French had erected a line of forts, just as they had on the Charny Ridge, Forts
Douaumont and Vaux, familiar names now, were the forts most distant from Verdun. But the French
here, as on the other side of the river, had come out of these forts, abandoned and dismantled
them, and taken to trenches much to the north. It was upon these trenches that the main German
attack fell, and in the first days the French were pushed back until their trench line followed
the crests that bear the old forts, and at one point, at Douaumont, the Germans had actually
got possession of one of the old forts; but the French trenches pass in front of this fort
at a distance of but a few hundred yards.

Now, in the first days of the battle the position of the French on the east bank of the Meuse
was just this: the troops facing north were meeting and slowly yielding to a terrific drive
coming south and southwest; the rest of the troops that faced east toward the Woevre were not
attacked severely. But as the Germans came south, and when they took Douaumont, they were able
to reach the bridges across the Meuse behind the French troops on the Meuse Hills and to destroy
them by indirect fire, and these French troops, more than a hundred thousand probably, were
fighting with their backs to a deep river and exposed to destruction in case their lines did
not hold.

In this situation Joffre proposed to take his troops behind the Meuse and on the hills to the
west and above the city, leaving the city to the Germans. The French line would thus come north
behind the Meuse from St. Mihiel and then turn west above Verdun, following either the Charny
Ridge or else the Hills of Regret and Chaume, on either side of the trough, described above,
which the road to Paris follows.

If Verdun were a fortress actually; if either the old town or the circle of forts outside had
been of value, Joffre would not have proposed this thing. But they were of no value. Verdun
was once a fortress barring the way to the Plain of Châlons, but the Germans were in the plain,
having come through Belgium by the back door, as it were. The forts outside the city on the
rim of the basin had already been abandoned because they could have been destroyed by German
heavy artillery, as were those of Liège and Antwerp. Verdun was just a position; but it was
a difficult position to defend because of the river, which cut off one-half the army and could
be crossed only by bridges, which were under indirect fire.

If the French had come back to the Charny Ridge, or even to the Regret Hills south of the trough
followed by the Paris-Metz road, they would have stood on hills of patent military value; the
trough is a natural ditch in front. These hills are all trenched and prepared for defence.
The French would merely have shortened their lines and taken an easy position to defend, instead
of holding a bad position. But ultimately this would have meant the relinquishing of Verdun,
the little town down in the valley below, now become a heap of ruins and having lost its military
value thirty years earlier, when heavy artillery began its decisive success over the old fortifications.

The French did not retire, because the civil government overruled the military; decided that
the moral effect of the withdrawal from Verdun would be disastrous to the French and advantageous
to the Germans. Instead of retiring, the French stood and held the hills beyond the Charny
Ridge, Dead Man's and 304; they hold them still and seem determined to keep them. But remember
that they can still retire to the Charny Ridge if they choose, and only then find their best
line west of the Meuse, if they mean to hold on to the city of Verdun.

On the other hand, east of the River Meuse the French are approximately in their last line.
The hills and crests they hold upon the Meuse Hills are some three or four miles from Verdun,
but if the French retired far they would begin to come down hill, with a deep river at their
backs. In consequence, whenever you hear that the Germans have made some slight gain, taken
a trench about Douaumont or Vaux, you are certain to hear at once that the French have counter
attacked and retaken the lost ground.

The essential thing to remember is that the defence of Verdun is not the defence of a position
that has a great military value. The French would be better off, would lose fewer men and run
smaller risk of considerable losses if they should quit the east bank of the Meuse and occupy
the hills back of Verdun on the west bank. On the west bank the Germans have never made any
material gain, and they have not come within reach of the hills that bear the old forts. But
the French Government has decided that for political reason, for reasons that affect the moral,
not the military, situation, Verdun must not be surrendered; hence the army is holding it at
a cost of men less than the Germans are paying to take it, but at a far greater cost than would
be necessary to hold the better positions west of the river.

The Germans have not made any gain of importance in nearly two months. The French are very
sure they will not come farther south. They are as confident as men could be. But if the Germans
should come farther south and at last force the French to come back behind the river and to
the hills above the town, they would only win a moral victory. The military situation would
not be changed, unless they should also pierce the French lines on the west of the river, and
this is absolutely unthinkable now.

If you think of Verdun city as a fortress you will put yourself in the eighteenth century.
It is just an abandoned town, mostly ashes and completely ruined by a useless bombardment after
the main German advance had been checked. If you think of Verdun as a fortified position, like
Liège, which, if it fell, would bring disaster, as did the fall of Liège, you are thinking
in terms of the situation before the war. The forts of this position have all been abandoned
and the French are fighting in trenches in all points save one outside this circle of forts.
If you think of Verdun as the gateway to anything, you are thinking of something that doesn't
exist. It was a gateway to Central France, to the Plain of Châlons, from the German frontier
before the Germans came down into the Plain of Châlons from the north through Belgium.

But if you think of Verdun as a place which has a great sentimental value for both the French
and the Germans; if you think of it as a place which by reason of its importance in other days
still preserves a value in the minds of the mass of the French and German publics, a town the
taking of which would as a result of this wholly false appraisal be reckoned in Germany as
a great victory, which would vastly encourage German masses and would be accepted in France
as a great defeat which would equally depress the French public, you will think of the battle
for Verdun as it is.

