WOODSTOCK; OR, THE CAVALIER

BY

SIR WALTER SCOTT

1855.

APPENDIX TO INTRODUCTION.

APPENDIX NO. I.

THE WOODSTOCK SCUFFLE; or, Most dreadfull apparitions that were lately seene in the Mannor-house
of Woodstock, neere Oxford, to the great terror and the wonderful amazement of all there that
did behold them.

It were a wonder if one unites, And not of wonders and strange sights; For ev'ry where such
things affrights Poore people,

That men are ev'n at their wits' end; God judgments ev'ry where doth send, And yet we don't
our lives amend, But tipple,

And sweare, and lie, and cheat, and--, Because the world shall drown no more, As if no judgments
were in store But water;

But by the stories which I tell, You'll heare of terrors come from hell, And fires, and shapes
most terrible For matter.

It is not long since that a child Spake from the ground in a large field, And made the people
almost wild That heard it,

Of which there is a printed book, Wherein each man the truth may look, If children speak, the
matter's took For verdict.

But this is stranger than that voice, The wonder's greater, and the noyse; And things appeare
to men, not boyes, At Woodstock;

Where Rosamond had once a bower, To keep her from Queen Elinour, And had escap'd her poys'nous
power By good-luck,

But fate had otherwise decreed, And Woodstock Manner saw a deed, Which is in Hollinshed or
Speed Chro-nicled;

But neither Hollinshed nor Stow, Nor no historians such things show, Though in them wonders
we well know Are pickled;

For nothing else is history But pickle of antiquity, Where things are kept in memory From stinking;

Which otherwise would have lain dead, As in oblivion buried, Which now you may call into head
With thinking.

The dreadfull story, which is true, And now committed unto view, By better pen, had it its
due, Should see light.

But I, contented, do indite, Not things of wit, but things of right; You can't expect that
things that fright Should delight.

O hearken, therefore, hark and shake! My very pen and hand doth quake! While I the true relation
make O' th' wonder,

Which hath long time, and still appeares Unto the State's Commissioners, And puts them in their
beds to feares From under.

They come, good men, imploi'd by th' State To sell the lands of Charles the late. And there
they lay, and long did waite For chapmen.

You may have easy pen'worths, woods, Lands, ven'son, householdstuf, and goods, They little
thought of dogs that wou'd There snap-men.

But when they'd sup'd, and fully fed, They set up remnants and to bed. Where scarce they had
laid down a head To slumber,

But that their beds were heav'd on high; They thought some dog under did lie, And meant i'
th' chamber (fie, fie, fie) To scumber.

Some thought the cunning cur did mean To eat their mutton (which was lean) Reserv'd for breakfast,
for the men Were thrifty.

And up one rises in his shirt, Intending the slie cur to hurt, And forty thrusts made at him
for't, Or fifty.

But empty came his sword again. He found he thrust but all in vain; An the mutton safe, hee
went amain To's fellow.

And now (assured all was well) The bed again began to swell, The men were frighted, and did
smell O' th' yellow.

From heaving, now the cloaths it pluckt The men, for feare, together stuck, And in their sweat
each other duck't. They wished

A thousand times that it were day; 'Tis sure the divell! Let us pray. They pray'd amain; and,
as they say, ---- ----

Approach of day did cleere the doubt, For all devotions were run out, They now waxt strong
and something stout, One peaked

Under the bed, but nought was there; He view'd the chamber ev'ry where, Nothing apear'd but
what, for feare. They leaked.

Their stomachs then return'd apace, They found the mutton in the place, And fell unto it with
a grace. They laughed

Each at the other's pannick feare, And each his bed-fellow did jeere, And having sent for ale
and beere, They quaffed.

And then abroad the summons went, Who'll buy king's-land o' th' Parliament? A paper-book contein'd
the rent, Which lay there;

That did contein the severall farmes, Quit-rents, knight services, and armes; But that they
came not in by swarmes To pay there.

Night doth invite to bed again, The grand Commissioners were lain, But then the thing did heave
amain, It busled,

And with great clamor fil'd their eares, The noyse was doubled, and their feares; Nothing was
standing but their haires, They nuzled.

Oft were the blankets pul'd, the sheete Was closely twin'd betwixt their feete, It seems the
spirit was discreete And civill.

Which makes the poore Commissioners Feare they shall get but small arreares, And that there's
yet for cavaliers One divell.

They cast about what best to doe; Next day they would to wisemen goe, To neighb'ring towns
some cours to know; For schollars

Come not to Woodstock, as before, And Allen's dead as a nayle-doore, And so's old John (eclep'd
the poore) His follower;

Rake Oxford o're, there's not a man That rayse or lay a spirit can, Or use the circle, or the
wand, Or conjure;

Or can say (Boh!) unto a divell, Or to a goose that is uncivill, Nor where Keimbolton purg'd
out evill, 'Tis sin sure.

There were two villages hard by, With teachers of presbytery, Who knew the house was hidiously
Be-pestred;

But 'lasse! their new divinity Is not so deep, or not so high; Their witts doe (as their meanes
did) lie Sequestred;

But Master Joffman was the wight Which was to exorcise the spright; Hee'll preach and pray
you day and night At pleasure.

And by that painfull gainfull trade, He hath himselfe full wealthy made; Great store of guilt
he hath, 'tis said, And treasure.

But no intreaty of his friends Could get him to the house of fiends, He came not over for such
ends From Dutch-land,

But worse divinity hee brought, And hath us reformation taught, And, with our money, he hath
bought Him much land.

Had the old parsons preached still, The div'l should nev'r have had his wil; But those that
had or art or skill Are outed;

And those to whom the pow'r was giv'n Of driving spirits, are out-driv'n; Their colledges dispos'd,
and livings, To grout-heads.

There was a justice who did boast, Hee had as great a gift almost, Who did desire him to accost
This evill.

But hee would not employ his gifts. But found out many sleights and shifts; Hee had no prayers,
nor no snifts, For th' divell.

Some other way they cast about, These brought him in, they throw not out; A woman, great with
child, will do't; They got one.

And she i' th' room that night must lie; But when the thing about did flie, And broke the windows
furiously And hot one

Of the contractors o're the head, Who lay securely in his bed, The woman, shee-affrighted,
fled ---- ----

And now they lay the cause on her. That e're that night the thing did stir, Because her selfe
and grandfather Were Papists;

They must be barnes-regenerate, (A Hans en Kelder of the state, Which was in reformation gatt,)
They said, which

Doth make the divell stand in awe, Pull in his hornes, his hoof, his claw; But having none,
they did in draw ---- ---- ----

But in the night there was such worke, The spirit swaggered like a Turke; The bitch had spi'd
where it did lurke, And howled

In such a wofull manner that
Their very hearts went pit a pat;
       *       *       *       *       *
---- ---- ----

The stately rooms, where kings once lay But the contractors show'd the way. But mark what now
I tell you, pray, 'Tis worth it.

That book I told you of before, Wherein were tenants written store, A register for many more
Not forth yet,

That very book, as it did lie, Took of a flame, no mortall eye Seeing one jot of fire thereby,
Or taper;

For all the candles about flew, And those that burned, burned blew, Never kept soldiers such
a doe Or vaper.

The book thus burnt and none knew how The poore contractors made a vow To work no more; this
spoil'd their plow In that place.

Some other part o' th' house they'll find, To which the divell hath no mind, But hee, it seems,
is not inclin'd With that grace;

But other pranks it plaid elsewhere. An oake there was stood many a yeere, Of goodly growth
as any where, Was hewn down,

Which into fewell-wood was cut, And some into a wood-pile put, But it was hurled all about
And thrown down.

In sundry formes it doth appeare; Now like a grasping claw to teare; Now like a dog; anon a
beare It tumbles;

And all the windows battered are, No man the quarter enter dare; All men (except the glasier)
Doe grumble.

Once in the likenesse of woman, Of stature much above the common, 'Twas seene, but spak a word
to no man, And vanish'd.

'Tis thought the ghost of some good wife Whose husband was depriv'd of life, Her children cheated,
land in strife She banist.

No man can tell the cause of these So wondrous dreadful outrages; Yet if upon your sinne you
please To discant,

You'le find our actions out-doe hell's; O wring your hands and cease the bells, Repentance
must, or nothing else Appease can't.

No. II.

[London, printed in the year 1660. 4to.]

The names of the persons in the ensuing Narrative mentioned, with others:--

CAPTAIN COCKAINE. CAPTAIN HART. CAPTAIN CROOK. CAPTAIN CARELESSE. CAPTAIN ROE. Mr. CROOK, the
Lawyer. Mr. BROWNE, the Surveyor. Their three Servants. Their Ordinary-keeper, and others.
The Gatekeeper, with the Wife and Servants.

Besides many more, who each night heard the noise; as Sir Gerrard Fleetwood and his lady, with
his family, Mr. Hyans, with his family, and several others, who lodged in the outer courts;
and during the three last nights, the inhabitants of Woodstock town, and other neighbor villages.

And there were many more, both divines and others, who came out of the country, and from Oxford,
to see the glass and stones, and other stuffe, the devil had brought, wherewith to beat out
the Commissioners; the marks upon some walls remain, and many, this to testifie.

THE PREFACE TO THE ENSUING NARRATIVE.

Since it hath pleased the Almighty God, out of his infinite mercy, so to make us happy, by
restoring of our native King to us, and us unto our native liberty through him, that now the
good may say, magna temporum felicitas ubi sentire quoe velis, et dicere licet quoe sentias,
we cannot but esteem ourselves engaged in the highest of degrees, to render unto him the highest
thanks we can express. Although, surpris'd with joy, we become as lost in the performance;
when gladness and admiration strikes us silent, as we look back upon the precipiece of our
late condition, and those miraculous deliverances beyond expression. Freed from the slavery,
and those desperate perils, we dayly lived in fear of, during the tyrannical times of that
detestable usurper, Oliver Cromwell; he who had raked up such judges, as would wrest the most
innocent language into high treason, when he had the cruel conscience to take away our lives,
upon no other ground of justice or reason, (the stones of London streets would rise to witness
it, if all the citizens were silent.) And with these judges had such councillors, as could
advise him unto worse, which will less want of witness. For should the many auditors be silent,
the press, (as God would have it,) hath given it us in print, where one of them (and his conscience-keeper,
too,) speaks out. What shall we do with these men? saith he; Aeger intemperans crudelem facit
medicum, et immedicabile vulmis ense recidendum. Who these men are that should be brought to
such Scicilian vespers, the former page sets forth--those which conceit Utopias, and have their
day-dreams of the return of I know not what golden age, with the old line. What usage, when
such a privy councillor had power, could he expect, who then had published this narrative?
This much so plainly shows the devil himself dislikt their doings, (so much more bad were they
than he would have them be,) severer sure than was the devil to their Commissioners at Woodstock;
for he warned them, with dreadful noises, to drive them from their work. This councillor, without
more ado, would have all who retained conceits of allegiance to their soveraign, to be absolutely
cut off by the usurper's sword. A sad sentence for a loyal party, to a lawful King. But Heaven
is always just; the party is repriv'd, and do acknowledge the hand of God in it, as is rightly
apply'd, and as justly sensible of their deliverance in that the foundation which the councillor
saith was already so well laid, is now turned up, and what he calls day-dreams are come to
passe. That old line which (as with him) there seemed, aliquid divini, to the contrary is now
restored. And that rock which, as he saith, the prelates and all their adherents, nay, and
their master and supporter, too, with all his posterity, have split themselves upon, is nowhere
to be heard. And that posterity are safely arrived in their ports, and masters of that mighty
navy, their enemies so much encreased to keep them out with. The eldest sits upon the throne,
his place by birthright and descent,

  "Pacatumque regit Patriis virtutibus orbem;"

upon which throne long may he sit, and reign in peace. That by his just government, the enemies
of ours, the true Protestant Church, of that glorious martyr, our late sovereign, and of his
royal posterity, may be either absolutely converted, or utterly confounded.

If any shall now ask thee why this narrative was not sooner published, as neerer to the times
wherein the things were acted, he hath the reason for it in the former lines; which will the
more clearly appear unto his apprehension, if he shall perpend how much cruelty is requisite
to the maintenance of rebellion; and how great care is necessary in the supporters, to obviate
and divert the smallest things that tend to the unblinding of the people; so that it needs
will follow, that they must have accounted this amongst the great obstructions to their sales
of his majestie's lands, the devil not joining with them in the security; and greater to the
pulling down the royal pallaces, when their chapmen should conceit the devil would haunt them
in their houses, for building with so ill got materials; as no doubt but that he hath, so numerous
and confident are the relations made of the same, though scarce any so totally remarkeable
as this, (if it be not that others have been more concealed,) in regard of the strange circumstances
as long continuances, but especially the number of persons together, to whom all things were
so visibly both seen and done, so that surely it exceeds any other; for the devils thus manifesting
themselves, it appears evidently that there are such things as devils, to persecute the wicked
in this world as in the next.

Now, if to these were added the diverse reall phantasms seen at Whitehall in Cromwell's times,
which caused him to keep such mighty guards in and about his bedchamber, and yet so oft to
change his lodgings; if those things done at St. James', where the devil so joal'd the centinels
against the sides of the queen's chappell doors, that some of them fell sick upon it; and others,
not, taking warning by it, kild one outright, whom they buried in the place; and all other
such dreadful things, those that inhabited the royal houses have been affrighted with.

And if to these were likewise added, a relation of all those regicides and their abettors the
devil hath entered into, as he did the Gadarenes' swine, with so many more of them who hath
fallen mad, and dyed in hideous forms of such distractions, that which hath been of this within
these 12 last years in England, (should all of this nature, our chronicles do tell, with all
the superstitious monks have writ, be put together,) would make the greater volume, and of
more strange occurrents.

And now as to the penman of this narrative, know that he was a divine, and at the time of those
things acted, which are here related, the minister and schoolmaster of Woodstock; a person
learned and discreet, not byassed with factious humours, his name Widows, who each day put
in writing what he heard from their mouthes, (and such things as they told to have befallen
them the night before,) therein keeping to their own words; and, never thinking that what he
had writ should happen to be made publick, gave it no better dress to set it forth. And because
to do it now shall not be construed to change the story, the reader hath it here accordingly
exposed.

The 16th day of October, in the year of our Lord 1649, the Commissioners for surveying and
valuing his majestie's mannor-house, parks, woods, deer, demesnes, and all things thereunto
belonging, by name Captain Crook, Captain Hart, Captain Cockaine, Captain Carelesse, and Captain
Roe, their messenger, with Mr. Browne, their secretary, and two or three servants, went from
Woodstock town, (where they had lain some nights before,) and took up their lodgings in his
majestie's house after this manner: The bed-chamber and withdrawing-room they both lodged in
and made their kitchen; the presence-chamber their room for dispatch of their business with
all commers; of the council-hall their brew-house, as of the dining-room, their wood-house,
where they laid in the clefts of that antient standard in the High-Park, for many ages beyond
memory known by the name of the King's Oak, which they had chosen out, and caused to be dug
up by the roots.

October 17. About the middle of the night, these new guests were first awaked by a knocking
at the presence-chamber door, which they also conceived did open, and something to enter, which
came through the room, and also walkt about that room with a heavy step during half an hour,
then crept under the bed where Captain Hart and Captain Carelesse lay, where it did seem (as
it were) to bite and gnaw the mat and bed-coards, as if it would tear and rend the feather
beds; which having done a while, then would heave a while, and rest; then heave them up again
in the bed more high than it did before, sometime on the one side, sometime on the other, as
if it had tried which Captain was heaviest. Thus having heaved some half an hour, from thence
it walkt out and went under the servants' bed, and did the like to them; hence it walkt into
a withdrawing room, and there did the same to all who lodged there. Thus having welcomed them
for more than two hours' space, it walkt out as it came in, and shut the outer door again,
but with the clap of some mightie force. These guests were in a sweat all this while, but out
of it falling into a sleep again, it became morning first before they spake their minds; then
would they have it to be a dog, yet they described it more to the likeness of a great bear;
so fell to the examining under the beds, where, finding only the mats scracht, but the bed-coards
whole, and the quarter of beef which lay on the floor untoucht, they entertained other thoughts.

October 18. They were all awaked as the night before, and now conceived that they heard all
the great clefts of the King's Oak brought into the presence-chamber, and there thumpt down,
and after roul about the room; they could hear their chairs and stools tost from one side of
the room unto the other, and then (as it were) altogether josled. Thus having done an hour
together, it walkt into the withdrawing-room, where lodged the two captains, the secretary,
and two servants; here stopt the thing a while, as if it did take breath, but raised a hideous
one, then walkt into the bed-chamber, where lay those as before, and under the bed it went,
where it did heave and heave again, that now they in bed were put to catch hold upon bed-posts,
and sometimes one of the other, to prevent their being tumbled out upon the ground; then coming
out as from under the bed, and taking hold upon the bed-posts, it would shake the whole bed,
almost as if a cradle rocked. Thus having done here for half an hour, it went into the withdrawing-room,
where first it came and stood at the bed's feet, and heaving up the bed's feet, flopt them
down again a while, until at last it heaved the feet so high that those in bed thought to have
been set upon their heads; and having thus for two hours entertained them, went out as in the
night before, but with a great noise.

October 19. This night they awaked not until the midst of the night; they perceived the room,
to shake with something that walkt about the bedchamber, which having done so a while, it walkt
into a withdrawing-room, where it took up a brasse warming-pan, and returning with it into
the bed-chamber, therein made so loud a noise, in these captains' own words, it was as loud
and scurvy as a ring of five untuned bells rung backward; but the captains, not to seem afraid,
next day made mirth of what had past, and jested at the devil in the pan.

October 20. These captains and their company, still lodging as before, were wakened in this
night with some things flying about the rooms, and out of one room into the other, as thrown
with some great force. Captain Hart, being in a slumber, was taken by the shoulder and shaked
until he did sit up in his bed, thinking that it had been one of his fellows, when suddenly
he was taken on the pate with a trencher, that it made him shrink down into the bed-clothes,
and all of them, in both rooms, kept their heads at least within their sheets, so fiercely
did three dozen of trenchers fly about the rooms; yet Captain Hart ventured again to peep out
to see what was the matter, and what it was that threw, but then the trenchers came so fast
and neer about his ears, that he was fain quickly to couch again. In the morning they found
all their trenchers, pots, and spits, upon and about their beds, and all such things as were
of common use scattered about the rooms. This night there were also, in several parts of the
room and outer rooms, such noises of beating at doors, and on the walls, as if that several
smiths had been at work; and yet our captains shrunk not from their work, but went on in that,
and lodged as they had done before.

October 21. About midnight they heard great knocking at every door; after a while the doors
flew open, and into the withdrawing-room entered something as of a mighty proportion, the figure
of it they knew not how to describe. This walkt awhile about the room shaking the floor at
every step, then came it up close to the bed-side, where lay Captains Crook and Carelesse;
and after a little pause, as it were, the bed-curtains, both at sides and feet, were drawn
up and down slowly, then faster again for a quarter of an hour, then from end to end as fast
as imagination can fancie the running of the rings, then shaked it the beds, as if the joints
thereof had crackt; then walkt the thing into the bed-chamber, and so plaied with those beds
there; then took up eight peuter dishes, and bouled them about the room and over the servants
in the truckle-beds; then sometimes were the dishes taken up and thrown crosse the high beds
and against the walls, and so much battered; but there were more dishes wherein was meat in
the same room, that were not at all removed. During this, in the presence-chamber there was
stranger noise of weightie things thrown down, and, as they supposed, the clefts of the King's
Oak did roul about the room, yet at the wonted hour went away, and left them to take rest,
such as they could.

October 22. Hath mist of being set down, the officers imployed in their work farther off, came
not that day to Woodstock.

October 23. Those that lodged in the withdrawing-room, in the midst of the night were awakened
with the cracking of fire, as if it had been with thorns and sparks of fire burning, whereupon
they supposed that the bed-chamber had taken fire, and listning to it farther, they heard their
fellows in bed sadly groan, which gave them to suppose they might be suffocated; wherefore
they called upon their servants to make all possible hast to help them. When the two servants
were come in, they found all asleep, and so brought back word, but that there were no bedclothes
upon them; wherefore they were sent back to cover them, and to stir up and mend the fire. When
the servants had covered them and were come to the chimney, in the corners they found their
wearing apparrel, boots, and stockings, but they had no sooner toucht the embers, when the
firebrands flew about their ears so fast, that away ran they into the other room for the shelter
of their cover-lids; then after them walkt something that stampt about the room as if it had
been exceeding angry, and likewise threw about the trenchers, platters, and all such things
in the room--after two hours went out, yet stampt again over their heads.

October 24. They lodged all abroad.

October 25. This afternoon was come unto them Mr. Richard Crook the lawyer, brother to Captain
Crook, and now deputy-steward of the manner, unto Captain Parsons and Major Butler, who had
put out Mr. Hyans, his majestie's officer. To entertain this new guest the Commissioners caused
a very great fire to be made, of neer the chimneyfull of wood of the King's Oak, and he was
lodged in the withdrawing-room with his brother, and his servant in the same room. About the
midst of the night a wonderful knocking was heard, and into the room something did rush, which
coming to the chimney-side, dasht out the fire as with the stamp of some prodigious foot, then
threw down such weighty stuffe, what ere it was, (they took it to be the residue of the clefts
and roots of the King's Oak,) close by the bed-side, that the house and bed shook with it.
Captain Cockaine and his fellow arose, and took their swords to go unto the Crooks. The noise
ceased at their rising, so that they came to the door and called. The two brothers, though
fully awaked, and heard them call, were so amazed, that they made no answer until Captain Cockaine
had recovered the boldness to call very loud, and came unto the bed-side; then faintly first,
after some more assurance, they came to understand one another, and comforted the lawyer. Whilst
this was thus, no noise was heard, which made them think the time was past of that night's
trouble, so that, after some little conference, they applied themselves to take some rest.
When Captain Cockaine was come to his own bed, which he had left open, he found it closely
covered, which he much wondered at; but turning the clothes down, and opening it to get in,
he found the lower sheet strewed over with trenchers. Their whole three dozen of trenchers
were orderly disposed between the sheets, which he and his fellow endeavoring to cast out,
such noise arose about the room, that they were glad to get into bed with some of the trenchers.
The noise lasted, a full half hour after this. This entertainment so ill did like the lawyer,
and being not so well studied in the point as to resolve this the devil's law case, that he
next day resolved to be gone; but having not dispatcht all that he came for, profit and perswasions
prevailed with him to stay the other hearing, so that he lodged as he did the night before.

October 26. This night each room was better furnished with fire and candle than before; yet
about twelve at night came something in that dasht all out, then did walk about the room, making
a noise, not to be set forth by the comparison with any other thing; sometimes came it to the
bedsides, and drew the curtains to and fro, then twerle them, then walk about again, and return
to the bed-posts, shake them with all the bed, so that they in bed were put to hold one upon
the other, then walk about the room again, and come to the servants' bed, and gnaw and scratch
the wainscot head, and shake altogether in that room; at the time of this being in doing, they
in the bed-chamber heard such strange dropping down from the roof of the room, that they supposed
'twas like the fall of money by the sound. Captain Cockaine, not frightened with so small a
noise, (and lying near the chimney) stept out, and made shift to light a candle, by the light
of which he perceived the room strewed over with broken glass, green, and some of it as it
were pieces of broken bottles; he had not been long considering what it was, when suddenly
his candle was hit out, and glass flew about the room, that he made haste to the protection
of the coverlets; the noise of thundering rose more hideous than at any time before; yet, at
a certain time, all vanisht into calmness. The morning after was the glass about the room,
which the maid that was to make clean the rooms swept up into a corner, and many came to see
it. But Mr. Richard Crook would stay no longer, yet as he stopt, going through Woodstock town,
he was there heard to say, that he would not lodge amongst them another night for a fee of 500 L.

October 27. The Commissioners had not yet done their work, wherefore they must stay; and being
all men of the sword, they must not seem afraid to encounter with any thing, though it be the
devil; therefore, with pistols charged, and drawn swords laied by their bedsides, they applied
themselves to take some rest, when something in the midst of night, so opened and shut the
window casements with such claps, that it awakened all that slept; some of them peeping out
to look what was the matter with the windows, stones flew about the rooms as if hurled with
many hands; some hit the walls, and some the beds' heads close above the pillows, the dints
of which were then, and yet (it is conceived) are to be seen, thus sometime throwing stones,
and sometime making thundering noise for two hours space it ceast, and all was quiet till the
morn. After their rising, and the maid come in to make the fire, they looked about the rooms;
they found fourscore stones brought in that night, and going to lay them together in the corner
where the glass (before mentioned) had been swept up, they found that every piece of glass
had been carried away that night. Many people came next day to see the stones, and all observed
that they were not of such kind of stones as are naturall in the countrey thereabout; with
these were noise like claps of thunder, or report of cannon planted against the rooms, heard
by all that lodged in the outer courts, to their astonishment, and at Woodstock town, taken
to be thunder.

October 28. This night, both strange and differing noise from the former first wakened Captain
Hart, who lodged in the bed-chamber, who, hearing Roe and Brown to groan, called out to Cockaine
and Crook to come and help them, for Hart could not now stir himself; Cockaine would faine
have answered, but he could not, or look about; something, he thought, stopt both his breath
and held down his eye-lids. Amazed thus, he struggles and kickt about, till he had awaked Captain
Crook, who, half asleep, grew very angry at his kicks, and multiplied words, it grew to an
appointment in the field; but this fully recovered Cockaine to remember that Captain Hart had
called for help, wherefore to them he ran in the other room, whom he found sadly groaning,
where, scraping in the chimney, he both found a candle and fire to light it; but had not gone
two steps, when something blew the candle out, and threw him in the chair by the bedside, when
presently cried out Captain Carelesse, with a most pitiful voice, "Come hither, O come hither,
brother Cockaine, the thing's gone of me." Cockaine, scarce yet himself, helpt to set him up
in his bed, and after Captain Hart, and having scarce done that to them, and also to the other
two, they heard Captain Crook crying out, as if something had been killing him. Cockaine snacht
up the sword that lay by their bed, and ran into the room to save Crook, but was in much more
likelyhood to kill him, for at his coming, the thing that pressed Crook went of him, at which
Crook started out of his bed, whom Cockaine thought a spirit made at him, at which Crook cried
out "Lord help, Lord save me;" Cockaine let fall his hand, and Crook, embracing Cockaine, desired
his reconcilement, giving him many thanks for his deliverance. Then rose they all and came
together, discoursed sometimes godly and sometimes praied, for all this while was there such
stamping over the roof of the house, as if 1000 horse had there been trotting; this night all
the stones brought in the night before, and laid up in the withdrawingroom, were all carried
again away by that which brought them in, which at the wonted time left of, and, as it were,
went out, and so away.

October 29. Their businesse having now received so much forwardnesse as to be neer dispatcht,
they encouraged one the other, and resolved to try further; therefore, they provided more lights
and fires, and further for their assistance, prevailed with their ordinary keeper to lodge
amongst them, and bring his mastive bitch; and it was so this night with them, that they had
no disturbance at all.

October 30. So well they had passed the night before, that this night they went to bed, confident
and careless; untill about twelve of the clock, something knockt at the door as with a smith's
great hammer, but with such force as if it had cleft the door; then ent'red something like
a bear, but seem'd to swell more big, and walkt about the room, and out of one room into the
other, treading so heavily, as the floare had not been strong enough to beare it. When it came
into the bed-chamber, it dasht against the beds' heads some kind of glass vessell, that broke
in sundry pieces, and sometimes would take up those pieces, and hurle them about the room,
and into the other room; and when it did not hurle the glasse at their heads, it did strike
upon the tables, as if many smiths, with their greatest hammers, had been laying on as upon
an anvil; sometimes it thumpt against the walls as if it would beat a hole through; then upon
their heads, such stamping, as if the roof of the house were beating down upon their heads;
and having done thus, during the space (as was conjectured) of two hours, it ceased and vanished,
but with a more fierce shutting of the doors than at any time before. In the morning they found
the pieces of glass about the room, and observed, that it was much differing from that glasse
brought in three nights before, this being of a much thicker substance, which severall persons
which came in carried away some pieces of. The Commissioners were in debate of lodging there
no more; but all their businesse was not done, and some of them were so conceited as to believe,
and to attribute the rest they enjoyed the night before this last, unto the mastive bitch;
wherefore, they resolved to get more company, and the mastive bitch, and try another night.

October 31. This night, the fires and lights prepared, the ordinary keeper and his bitch, with
another man perswaded by him, they all took their beds and fell asleep. But about twelve at
night, such rapping was on all sides of them, that it wakened all of them; as the doors did
seem to open, the mastive bitch fell fearfully a yelling, and presently ran fiercely into the
bed to them in the truckle-bed; as the thing came by the table, it struck so fierce a blow
on that, as that it made the frame to crack, then took the warming-pan from off the table,
and stroke it against the walls with so much force as that it was beat flat together, lid and
bottom. Now were they hit as they lay covered over head and ears within the bed-clothes. Captain
Carelesse was taken a sound blow on the head with the shoulder-blade bone of a dead horse,
(before they had been but thrown at, when they peept up, and mist;) Browne had a shrewed blow
on the leg with the backbone, and another on the head, and every one of them felt severall
blows of bones and stones through the bed-clothes, for now these things were thrown as from
an angry hand that meant further mischief; the stones flew in at window as shot out of a gun,
nor was the bursts lesse (as from without) than of a cannon, and all the windows broken down.
Now as the hurling of the things did cease, and the thing walkt up and down, Captain Cockaine
and Hart cried out, In the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, what are you? What would
you have? What have we done that you disturb us thus? No voice replied, (as the Captains said,
yet some of their servants have said otherwise,) and the noise ceast. Hereupon Captains Hart
and Cockaine rose, who lay in the bed-chamber, renewed the fire and lights, and one great candle,
in a candlestick, they placed in the door, that might be seen by them in both the rooms. No
sooner were they got to bed, but the noise arose on all sides more loud and hideous than at
any time before, insomuch as (to use the Captains' own words) it returned and brought seven
devils worse than itself; and presently they saw the candle and candlestick in the passage
of the door, dasht up to the roof of the room, by a kick of the hinder parts of a horse, and
after with the hoof trode out the snuff, and so dasht out the fire in the chimnies. As this
was done, there fell, as from the ceiling, upon them in the truckle-beds such quantities of
water, as if it had been poured out of buckets, which stunk worse than any earthly stink could
make; and as this was in doing, something crept under the high beds, tost them up to the roof
of the house, with the Commissioners in them, until the testers of the beds were beaten down
upon, and the bedsted-frames broke under them; and here some pause being made, they all, as
if with one consent, started up, and ran down the stairs until they came into the Councel Hall,
where two sate up a-brewing, but now were fallen asleep; those they scared much with the wakening
of them, having been much perplext before with the strange noise, which commonly was taken
by them abroad for thunder, sometimes for rumbling wind. Here the Captains and their company
got fire and candle, and every one carrying something of either, they returned into the Presence-Chamber,
where some applied themselves to make the fire, whilst others fell to prayers, and having got
some clothes about them, they spent the residue of the night in singing psalms and prayers;
during which, no noise was in that room, but most hideously round about, as at some distance.

It should have been told before, how that when Captain Hart first rose this night, (who lay
in the bed-chamber next the fire,) he found their book of valuations crosse the embers smoaking,
which he snacht up and cast upon the table there, which the night before was left upon the
table in the presence amongst their other papers; this book was in the morning found a handful
burnt, and had burnt the table where it lay; Browne the clerk said, he would not for a 100
and a 100 L that it had been burnt a handful further.

This night it happened that there were six cony-stealers, who were come with their nets and
ferrets to the cony-burrows by Rosamond's Well; but with the noise this night from the Mannor-house,
they were so terrified, that like men distracted away they ran, and left their haies all ready
pitched, ready up, and the ferrets in the cony-burrows.

Now the Commissioners, more sensible of their danger, considered more seriously of their safety,
and agreed to go and confer with Mr. Hoffman, the minister of Wotton, (a man not of the meanest
note for life or learning, by some esteemed more high,) to desire his advice, together with
his company and prayers. Mr. Hoffman held it too high a point to resolve on suddenly and by
himself, wherefore desired time to consider upon it, which being agreed unto, he forthwith
rode to Mr. Jenkinson and Mr. Wheat, the two next Justices of Peace, to try what warrant they
could give him for it. They both (as 'tis said from themselves) encouraged him to be assisting
to the Commissioners, according to his calling.

But certain it is, that when they came to fetch him to go with them, Mr. Hoffman answered,
that he would not lodge there one night for 500 L, and being asked to pray with them, he held
up his hands and said, that he would not meddle upon any terms.

Mr. Hoffman refusing to undertake the quarrel, the Commissioners held it not safe to lodge
where they had been thus entertained any longer, but caused all things to be removed into the
chambers over the gatehouse, where they stayed but one night, and what rest they enjoyed there,
we have but an uncertain relation of, for they went away early the next morning; but if it
may be held fit to set down what hath been delivered by the report of others, they were also
the same night much affrighted with dreadful apparitions; but observing that these passages
spread much in discourse, to be also in particulars taken notice of, and that the nature of
it made not for their cause, they agreed to the concealing of things for the future; yet this
is well-known and certain, that the gate-keeper's wife was in so strange an agony in her bed,
and in her bed-chamber such noise, (whilst her husband was above with the Commissioners,) that
two maids in the next room to her, durst not venture to assist her, but affrighted ran out
to call company, and their master, and found the woman (at their coming in) gasping for breath;
and the next day said, that she saw and suffered that, which for all the world she would not
be hired to again.

From Woodstock the Commissioners removed unto Euelme, and some of them returned to Woodstock
the Sunday se'nnight after, (the book of Valuations wanting something that was for haste left
imperfect,) but lodged not in any of those rooms where they had lain before, and yet were not
unvisited (as they confess themselves) by the devil, whom they called their nightly guest;
Captain Crook came not untill Tuesday night, and how he sped that night the gate-keeper's wife
can tell if she dareth, but what she hath whispered to her gossips, shall not be made a part
of this our narrative, nor many more particulars which have fallen from the Commissioners themselves
and their servants to other persons; they are all or most of them alive, and may add to it
when they please, and surely have not a better way to be revenged of him who troubled them,
than according to the proverb, tell truth and shame the devil.

There remains this observation to be added, that on a Wednesday morning all these officers
went away; and that since then diverse persons of severall qualities, have lodged often and
sometimes long in the same rooms, both in the presence, withdrawing-room, and bed-chamber belonging
unto his sacred Majesty; yet none have had the least disturbance, or heard the smallest noise,
for which the cause was not as ordinary as apparent, except the Commissioners and their company,
who came in order to the alienating and pulling down the house, which is wellnigh performed.

A SHORT SURVEY OF WOODSTOCK, NOT TAKEN BY ANY OF THE BEFORE-MENTIONED COMMISSIONERS.

(This Survey of Woodstock is appended to the preceding pamphlet)

The noble seat, called Woodstock, is one of the ancient honours belonging to the crown. Severall
mannors owe suite and service to the place; but the custom of the countrey giving it but the
title of a mannor, we shall erre with them to be the better understood.

The mannor-house hath been a large fabrick, and accounted amongst his majestie's standing houses,
because there was alwaies kept a standing furniture. This great house was built by King Henry
the First, but ampleyfied with the gate-house and outsides of the outer-court, by King Henry
the Seventh, the stables by King James.

About a bow-shot from the gate south-west, remain foundation signs of that structure, erected
by King Henry the Second, for the security of Lady Rosamond, daughter of Walter Lord Clifford,
which some poets have compared to the Dedalian labyrinth, but the form and circuit both of
the place and ruins show it to have been a house and of one pile, perhaps of strength, according
to the fashion of those times, and probably was fitted with secret places of recess, and avenues
to hide or convey away such persons as were not willing to be found if narrowly sought after.
About the midst of the place ariseth a spring, called at present Rosamond's Well; it is but
shallow, and shows to have been paved and walled about, likely contrived for the use of them
within the house, when it should be of danger to go out.

A quarter of a mile distant from the King's house, is seated Woodstook town, new and old. This
new Woodstock did arise by some buildings which Henry the Second gave leave to be erected,
(as received by tradition,) at the suite of the Lady Rosamond, for the use of out-servants
upon the wastes of the manner of Bladon, where is the mother church; this is a hamlet belonging
to it, though encreased to a market town by the advantage of the Court residing sometime near,
which of late years they have been sensible of the want of; this town was made a corporation
in the 11th year of Henry the Sixth, by charter, with power to send two burgesses to parliament
or not, as they will themselves.

Old Woodstock is seated on the west side of the brook, named Glyme, which also runneth through
the park; the town consists not of above four or five houses, but it is to be conceived that
it hath been much larger, (but very anciently so,) for in some old law historians there is
mention of the assize at Woodstock, for a law made in a Micelgemote (the name of Parliaments
before the coming of the Norman) in the days of King Ethelred.

And in like manner, that thereabout was a king's house, if not in the same place where Henry
the First built the late standing pile before his; for in such days those great councils were
commonly held in the King's palaces. Some of those lands have belonged to the orders of the
Knights Templers, there being records which call them, Terras quas Rex excambiavit cum Templariis.

But now this late large mannor-house is in a manner almost turned into heaps of rubbish; some
seven or eight rooms left for the accommodation of a tenant that should rent the King's medows,
(of those who had no power to let them,) with several high uncovered walls standing, the prodigious
spectacles of malice unto monarchy, which ruines still bear semblance of their state, and yet
aspire in spight of envy, or of weather, to show, What kings do build, subjects may sometimes
shake, but utterly can never overthrow.

That part of the park called the High-park, hath been lately subdivided by Sir Arthur Haselrig,
to make pastures for his breed of colts, and other parts plowed up. Of the whole saith Roffus
Warwicensis, in MS. Hen. I. p. 122. Fecit iste Rex Parcum de Woodstock, cum Palatio, infra
praedictum Parcum, qui Parcus erat primus Parcus Angliae, et continet in circuitu septem Miliaria;
constructus erat. Anno 14 hujus Regis, aut parum post. Without the Park the King's demesne
woods were, it cannot well be said now are, the timber being all sold off, and underwoods so
cropt and spoiled by that beast the Lord Munson, and other greedy cattle, that they are hardly
recoverable. Beyond which lieth Stonefield, and other mannors that hold of Woodstock, with
other woods, that have been aliened by former kings, but with reservation of liberty for his
majestie's deer, and other beasts of forrest, to harbour in at pleasure, as in due place is
to be shewed.

       *       *       *       *       *

PREFACE.

It is not my purpose to inform my readers how the manuscripts of that eminent antiquary, the
Rev. J. A. ROCHECLIFFE, D.D., came into my possession. There are many ways in which such things
happen, and it is enough to say they were rescued from an unworthy fate, and that they were
honestly come by. As for the authenticity of the anecdotes which I have gleaned from the writings
of this excellent person, and put together with my own unrivalled facility, the name of Doctor
Rochecliffe will warrant accuracy, wherever that name happens to be known.

With his history the reading part of the world are well acquainted; and we might refer the
tyro to honest Anthony a Wood, who looked up to him as one of the pillars of High Church, and
bestows on him an exemplary character in the Athenae Oxonienses, although the Doctor was educated
at Cambridge, England's other eye.

It is well known that Doctor Rochecliffe early obtained preferment in the Church, on account
of the spirited share which he took in the controversy with the Puritans; and that his work,
entitled Malleus Haeresis, was considered as a knock-down blow by all except those who received
it. It was that work which made him, at the early age of thirty, Rector of Woodstock, and which
afterwards secured him a place in the Catalogue of the celebrated Century White;--and worse
than being shown up by that fanatic, among the catalogues of scandalous and malignant priests
admitted into benefices by the prelates, his opinions occasioned the loss of his living of
Woodstock by the ascendency of Presbytery. He was Chaplain, during most part of the Civil War,
to Sir Henry Lee's regiment, levied for the service of King Charles; and it was said he engaged
more than once personally in the field. At least it is certain that Doctor Rochecliffe was
repeatedly in great danger, as will appear from more passages than one in the following history,
which speaks of his own exploits, like Caesar, in the third person. I suspect, however, some
Presbyterian commentator has been guilty of interpolating two or three passages. The manuscript
was long in possession of the Everards, a distinguished family of that persuasion. (It is hardly
necessary to say, unless to some readers of very literal capacity, that Dr. Rochecliffe and
his manuscripts are alike apocryphal.)

During the Usurpation, Doctor Rochecliffe was constantly engaged in one or other of the premature
attempts at a restoration of monarchy; and was accounted, for his audacity, presence of mind,
and depth of judgment, one of the greatest undertakers for the King in that busy time; with
this trifling drawback, that the plots in which he busied himself were almost constantly detected.
Nay, it was suspected that Cromwell himself sometimes contrived to suggest to him the intrigues
in which he engaged, by which means the wily Protector made experiments on the fidelity of
doubtful friends, and became well acquainted with the plots of declared enemies, which he thought
it more easy to disconcert and disappoint than to punish severely.

Upon the Restoration, Doctor Rochecliffe regained his living of Woodstock, with other Church
preferment, and gave up polemics and political intrigues for philosophy. He was one of the
constituent members of the Royal Society, and was the person through whom Charles required
of that learned body solution of their curious problem, "Why, if a vessel is filled brimful
of water, and a large live fish plunged into the water, nevertheless it shall not overflow
the pitcher?" Doctor Rochecliffe's exposition of this phenomenon was the most ingenious and
instructive of four that were given in; and it is certain the Doctor must have gained the honour
of the day, but for the obstinacy of a plain, dull, country gentleman, who insisted that the
experiment should be, in the first place, publicly tried. When this was done, the event showed
it would have been rather rash to have adopted the facts exclusively on the royal authority;
as the fish, however curiously inserted into his native element, splashed the water over the
hall, and destroyed the credit of four ingenious essayists, besides a large Turkey carpet.

Doctor Rochecliffe, it would seem, died about 1685, leaving many papers behind him of various
kinds, and, above all, many valuable anecdotes of secret history, from which the following
Memoirs have been extracted, on which we intend to say only a few words by way of illustration.

The existence of Rosamond's Labyrinth, mentioned in these pages, is attested by Drayton in
the reign of Queen Elizabeth.

Rosamond's Labyrinth, whose ruins, together with her Well, being paved with square stones in
the bottom, and also her Tower, from which the Labyrinth did run, are yet remaining, being
vaults arched and walled with stone and brick, almost inextricably wound within one another,
by which, if at any time her lodging were laid about by the Queen, she might easily avoid peril
imminent, and, if need be, by secret issues take the air abroad, many furlongs about Woodstock
in Oxfordshire. [Drayton's England's Heroical Epistles, Note A, on the Epistle, Rosamond to
King Henry.]

It is highly probable, that a singular piece of phantasmagoria, which was certainly played
off upon the Commissioners of the Long Parliament, who were sent down to dispark and destroy
Woodstock, after the death of Charles I., was conducted by means of the secret passages and
recesses in the ancient Labyrinth of Rosamond, round which successive Monarchs had erected
a Hunting-seat or Lodge.

There is a curious account of the disturbance given to those Honourable Commissioners, inserted
by Doctor Plot, in his Natural History of Oxfordshire. But as I have not the book at hand,
I can only allude to the work of the celebrated Glanville upon Witches, who has extracted it
as an highly accredited narrative of supernatural dealings. The beds of the Commissioners,
and their servants, were hoisted up till they were almost inverted, and then let down again
so suddenly, as to menace them with broken bones. Unusual and horrible noises disturbed those
sacrilegious intromitters with royal property. The devil, on one occasion, brought them a warming-pan;
on another, pelted them with stones and horses' bones. Tubs of water were emptied on them in
their sleep; and so many other pranks of the same nature played at their expense, that they
broke up housekeeping, and left their intended spoliation only half completed. The good sense
of Doctor Plot suspected, that these feats were wrought by conspiracy and confederation, which
Glanville of course endeavours to refute with all his might; for it could scarce be expected,
that he who believed in so convenient a solution as that of supernatural agency, would consent
to relinquish the service of a key, which will answer any lock, however intricate.

Nevertheless, it was afterwards discovered, that Doctor Plot was perfectly right; and that
the only demon who wrought all these marvels, was a disguised royalist--a fellow called Trusty
Joe, or some such name, formerly in the service of the Keeper of the Park, but who engaged
in that of the Commissioners, on purpose to subject them to his persecution. I think I have
seen some account of the real state of the transaction, and of the machinery by which the wizard
worked his wonders; but whether in a book, or a pamphlet, I am uncertain. I remember one passage
particularly to this purpose. The Commissioners having agreed to retain some articles out of
the public account, in order to be divided among themselves, had entered into an indenture
for ascertaining their share in the peculation, which they hid in a bow-pot for security. Now,
when an assembly of divines, aided by the most strict religious characters in the neighbourhood
of Woodstock, were assembled to conjure down the supposed demon, Trusty Joe had contrived a
firework, which he let off in the midst of the exorcism, and which destroyed the bow-pot; and,
to the shame and confusion of the Commissioners, threw their secret indenture into the midst
of the assembled ghost-seers, who became thus acquainted with their secret schemes of peculation.

It is, however, to little purpose for me to strain my memory about ancient and imperfect recollections
concerning the particulars of these fantastic disturbances at Woodstock, since Doctor Rochecliffe's
papers give such a much more accurate narrative than could be obtained from any account in
existence before their publication. Indeed, I might have gone much more fully into this part
of my subject, for the materials are ample;--but, to tell the reader a secret, some friendly
critics were of opinion they made the story hang on hand; and thus I was prevailed on to be
more concise on the subject than I might otherwise have been.

The impatient reader, perhaps, is by this time accusing me of keeping the sun from him with
a candle. Were the sunshine as bright, however, as it is likely to prove; and the flambeau,
or link, a dozen of times as smoky, my friend must remain in the inferior atmosphere a minute
longer, while I disclaim the idea of poaching on another's manor. Hawks, we say in Scotland,
ought not to pick out hawks' eyes, or tire upon each other's quarry; and therefore, if I had
known that, in its date and its characters this tale was likely to interfere with that recently
published by a distinguished contemporary, I should unquestionably have left Doctor Rochecliffe's
manuscript in peace for the present season. But before I was aware of this circumstance, this
little book was half through the press; and I had only the alternative of avoiding any intentional
imitation, by delaying a perusal of the contemporary work in question.

WOODSTOCK.

CHAPTER THE FIRST.

  Some were for gospel ministers,
  And some for red-coat seculars,
  As men most fit t' hold forth the word,
  And wield the one and th' other sword.
                         Butler's Hudibras.

There is a handsome parish church in the town of Woodstock,--I am told so, at least, for I
never saw it, having scarce time, when at the place, to view the magnificence of Blenheim,
its painted halls, and tapestried bowers, and then return in due season to dine in hall with
my learned friend, the provost of ----; being one of those occasions on which a man wrongs
himself extremely, if he lets his curiosity interfere with his punctuality. I had the church
accurately described to me, with a view to this work; but, as I have some reason to doubt whether
my informant had ever seen the inside of it himself, I shall be content to say that it is now
a handsome edifice, most part of which was rebuilt forty or fifty years since, although it
still contains some arches of the old chantry, founded, it is said, by King John. It is to
this more ancient part of the building that my story refers. On a morning in the end of September,
or beginning of October, in the year 1652, being a day appointed for a solemn thanksgiving
for the decisive victory at Worcester, a respectable audience was assembled in the old chantry,
or chapel of King John. The condition of the church and character of the audience both bore
witness to the rage of civil war, and the peculiar spirit of the times. The sacred edifice
showed many marks of dilapidation. The windows, once filled with stained glass, had been dashed
to pieces with pikes and muskets, as matters of and pertaining to idolatry. The carving on
the reading-desk was damaged, and two fair screens of beautiful sculptured oak had been destroyed,
for the same pithy and conclusive reason. The high altar had been removed, and the gilded railing,
which was once around it, was broken down and carried off. The effigies of several tombs were
mutilated, and now lay scattered about the church,

  Torn from their destined niche--unworthy meed
  Of knightly counsel or heroic deed!

The autumn wind piped through empty aisles, in which the remains of stakes and trevisses of
rough-hewn timber, as well as a quantity of scattered hay and trampled straw, seemed to intimate
that the hallowed precincts had been, upon some late emergency, made the quarters of a troop
of horse.

The audience, like the building, was abated in splendour. None of the ancient and habitual
worshippers during peaceful times, were now to be seen in their carved galleries, with hands
shadowing their brows, while composing their minds to pray where their fathers had prayed,
and after the same mode of worship. The eye of the yeoman and peasant sought in vain the tall
form of old Sir Henry Lee, of Ditchley, as, wrapped in his lace cloak, and with beard and whiskers
duly composed, he moved slowly through the aisles, followed by the faithful mastiff, or bloodhound,
which in old time had saved his master by his fidelity, and which regularly followed him to
church. Bevis, indeed, fell under the proverb which avers, "He is a good dog which goes to
church;" for, bating an occasional temptation to warble along with the accord, he behaved himself
as decorously as any of the congregation, and returned as much edified, perhaps, as most of
them. The damsels of Woodstock looked as vainly for the laced cloaks, jingling spurs, slashed
boots, and tall plumes, of the young cavaliers of this and other high-born houses, moving through
the streets and the church-yard with the careless ease, which indicates perhaps rather an overweening
degree of self-confidence, yet shows graceful when mingled with good-humour and courtesy. The
good old dames, too, in their white hoods and black velvet gowns--their daughters, "the cynosure
of neighbouring eyes,"--where were they all now, who, when they entered the church, used to
divide men's thoughts between them and Heaven? "But, ah! Alice Lee--so sweet, so gentle, so
condescending in thy loveliness--[thus proceeds a contemporary annalist, whose manuscript we
have deciphered]--why is my story to turn upon thy fallen fortunes? and why not rather to the
period when, in the very dismounting from your palfrey, you attracted as many eyes as if an
angel had descended,--as many blessings as if the benignant being had come fraught with good
tidings? No creature wert thou of an idle romancer's imagination--no being fantastically bedizened
with inconsistent perfections;--thy merits made me love thee well--and for thy faults--so well
did they show amid thy good qualities, that I think they made me love thee better."

With the house of Lee had disappeared from the chantry of King John others of gentle blood
and honoured lineage--Freemantles, Winklecombes, Drycotts, &c.; for the air that blew over
the towers of Oxford was unfavourable to the growth of Puritanism, which was more general in
the neighbouring counties. There were among the congregation, however, one or two that, by
their habits and demeanour, seemed country gentlemen of consideration, and there were also
present some of the notables of the town of Woodstock, cutlers or glovers chiefly, whose skill
in steel or leather had raised them to a comfortable livelihood. These dignitaries wore long
black cloaks, plaited close at the neck, and, like peaceful citizens, carried their Bibles
and memorandum-books at their girdles, instead of knife or sword. [This custom among the Puritans
is mentioned often in old plays, and among others in the Widow of Watling Street.] This respectable,
but least numerous part of the audience, were such decent persons as had adopted the Presbyterian
form of faith, renouncing the liturgy and hierarchy of the Church of England, and living under
the tuition of the Rev. Nehemiah Holdenough, much famed for the length and strength of his
powers of predication. With these grave seniors sate their goodly dames in ruff and gorget,
like the portraits which in catalogues of paintings are designed "wife of a burgomaster;" and
their pretty daughters, whose study, like that of Chaucer's physician, was not always in the
Bible, but who were, on the contrary, when a glance could escape the vigilance of their honoured
mothers, inattentive themselves, and the cause of inattention in others.

But, besides these dignified persons, there were in the church a numerous collection of the
lower orders, some brought thither by curiosity, but many of them unwashed artificers, bewildered
in the theological discussions of the time, and of as many various sects as there are colours
in the rainbow. The presumption of these learned Thebans being in exact proportion to their
ignorance, the last was total and the first boundless. Their behaviour in the church was any
thing but reverential or edifying. Most of them affected a cynical contempt for all that was
only held sacred by human sanction--the church was to these men but a steeple-house, the clergyman,
an ordinary person; her ordinances, dry bran and sapless pottage unfitted for the spiritualized
palates of the saints, and the prayer, an address to Heaven, to which each acceded or not as
in his too critical judgment he conceived fit.

The elder amongst them sate or lay on the benches, with their high steeple-crowned hats pulled
over their severe and knitted brows, waiting for the Presbyterian parson, as mastiffs sit in
dumb expectation of the bull that is to be brought to the stake. The younger mixed, some of
them, a bolder license of manners with their heresies; they gazed round on the women, yawned,
coughed, and whispered, eat apples, and cracked nuts, as if in the gallery of a theatre ere
the piece commences.

Besides all these, the congregation contained a few soldiers, some in corslets and steel caps,
some in buff, and others in red coats. These men of war had their bandeliers, with ammunition,
slung around them, and rested on their pikes and muskets. They, too, had their peculiar doctrines
on the most difficult points of religion, and united the extravagances of enthusiasm with the
most determined courage and resolution in the field. The burghers of Woodstock looked on these
military saints with no small degree of awe; for though not often sullied with deeds of plunder
or cruelty, they had the power of both absolutely in their hands, and the peaceful citizen
had no alternative, save submission to whatever the ill-regulated and enthusiastic imaginations
of their martial guides might suggest.

After some time spent in waiting for him, Mr. Holdenough began to walk up the aisles of the
chapel, not with the slow and dignified carriage with which the old Rector was of yore wont
to maintain the dignity of the surplice, but with a hasty step, like one who arrives too late
at an appointment, and bustles forward to make the best use of his time. He was a tall thin
man, with an adust complexion, and the vivacity of his eye indicated some irascibility of temperament.
His dress was brown, not black, and over his other vestments he wore, in honour of Calvin,
a Geneva cloak of a blue colour, which fell backwards from his shoulders as he posted on to
the pulpit. His grizzled hair was cut as short as shears could perform the feat, and covered
with a black silk scull-cap, which stuck so close to his head, that the two ears expanded from
under it as if they had been intended as handles by which to lift the whole person. Moreover,
the worthy divine wore spectacles, and a long grizzled peaked beard, and he carried in his
hand a small pocket-bible with silver clasps. Upon arriving at the pulpit, he paused a moment
to take breath, then began to ascend the steps by two at a time.

But his course was arrested by a strong hand, which seized his cloak. It was that of one who
had detached himself from the group of soldiery. He was a stout man of middle stature, with
a quick eye, and a countenance, which, though plain, had yet an expression that fixed the attention.
His dress, though not strictly military, partook of that character. He wore large hose made
of calves-leather, and a tuck, as it was then called, or rapier, of tremendous length, balanced
on the other side by a dagger. The belt was morocco, garnished with pistols.

The minister, thus intercepted in his duty, faced round upon the party who had seized him,
and demanded, in no gentle tone, the meaning of the interruption.

"Friend," quoth the intruder, "is it thy purpose to hold forth to these good people?"

"Ay, marry is it," said the clergyman, "and such is my bounden duty. Woe to me if I preach
not the gospel--Prithee, friend, let me not in my labour"--

"Nay," said the man of warlike mien, "I am myself minded to hold forth; therefore, do thou
desist, or if thou wilt do by my advice, remain and fructify with those poor goslings, to whom
I am presently about to shake forth the crumbs of comfortable doctrine."

"Give place, thou man of Satan," said the priest, waxing wroth, "respect mine order--my cloth."

"I see no more to respect in the cut of thy cloak, or in the cloth of which it is fashioned,"
said the other, "than thou didst in the Bishop's rochets--they were black and white, thou art
blue and brown. Sleeping dogs every one of you, lying down, loving to slumber--shepherds that
starve the flock but will not watch it, each looking to his own gain--hum."

Scenes of this indecent kind were so common at the time, that no one thought of interfering;
the congregation looked on in silence, the better class scandalized, and the lower orders,
some laughing, and others backing the soldier or minister as their fancy dictated. Meantime
the struggle waxed fiercer; Mr. Holdenough clamoured for assistance.

"Master Mayor of Woodstock," he exclaimed, "wilt thou be among those wicked magistrates, who
bear the sword in vain?--Citizens, will you not help your pastor?--Worthy Alderman, will you
see me strangled on the pulpit stairs by this man of buff and Belial?--But lo, I will overcome
him, and cast his cords from me."

As Holdenough spoke, he struggled to ascend the pulpit stairs, holding hard on the banisters.
His tormentor held fast by the skirts of the cloak, which went nigh to the choking of the wearer,
until, as he spoke the words last mentioned, in a half-strangled voice, Mr. Holdenough dexterously
slipped the string which tied it round his neck, so that the garment suddenly gave way; the
soldier fell backwards down the steps, and the liberated divine skipped into the pulpit, and
began to give forth a psalm of triumph over his prostrate adversary. But a great hubbub in
the church marred his exultation, and although he and his faithful clerk continued to sing
the hymn of victory, their notes were only heard by fits, like the whistle of a curlew during
a gale of wind.

The cause of the tumult was as follows:--The Mayor was a zealous Presbyterian, and witnessed
the intrusion of the soldier with great indignation from the very beginning, though he hesitated
to interfere with an armed man while on his legs and capable of resistance. But no sooner did
he behold the champion of independency sprawling on his back, with the divine's Geneva cloak
fluttering in his hands, than the magistrate rushed forward, exclaiming that such insolence
was not to be endured, and ordered his constables to seize the prostrate champion, proclaiming,
in the magnanimity of wrath, "I will commit every red-coat of them all--I will commit him were
he Noll Cromwell himself!"

The worthy Mayor's indignation had overmastered his reason when he made this mistimed vaunt;
for three soldiers, who had hitherto stood motionless like statues, made each a stride in advance,
which placed them betwixt the municipal officers and the soldier, who was in the act of rising;
then making at once the movement of resting arms according to the manual as then practised,
their musket-buts rang on the church pavement, within an inch of the gouty toes of Master Mayor.
The energetic magistrate, whose efforts in favour of order were thus checked, cast one glance
on his supporters, but that was enough to show him that force was not on his side. All had
shrunk back on hearing that ominous clatter of stone and iron. He was obliged to descend to
expostulation.

"What do you mean, my masters?" said he; "is it like a decent and God-fearing soldiery, who
have wrought such things for the land as have never before been heard of, to brawl and riot
in the church, or to aid, abet, and comfort a profane fellow, who hath, upon a solemn thanksgiving
excluded the minister from his own pulpit?"

"We have nought to do with thy church, as thou call'st it," said he who, by a small feather
in front of his morion, appeared to be the corporal of the party;--"we see not why men of gifts
should not be heard within these citadels of superstition, as well as the voice of the men
of crape of old, and the men of cloak now. Wherefore, we will pluck yon Jack Presbyter out
of his wooden sentinel-box, and our own watchman shall relieve the guard, and mount thereon,
and cry aloud and spare not."

"Nay, gentlemen," said the Mayor, "if such be your purpose, we have not the means to withstand
you, being, as you see, peaceful and quiet men--But let me first speak with this worthy minister,
Nehemiah Holdenough, to persuade him to yield up his place for the time without farther scandal."

The peace-making Mayor then interrupted the quavering Holdenough and the clerk, and prayed
both to retire, else there would, he said, be certainly strife.

"Strife!" replied the Presbyterian divine, with scorn; "no fear of strife among men that dare
not testify against this open profanation of the Church, and daring display of heresy. Would
your neighbours of Banbury have brooked such an insult?"

"Come, come, Master Holdenough," said the Mayor, "put us not to mutiny and cry Clubs. I tell
you once more, we are not men of war or blood."

"Not more than may be drawn by the point of a needle," said the preacher, scornfully.--"Ye
tailors of Woodstock!--for what is a glover but a tailor working on kidskin?--I forsake you,
in scorn of your faint hearts and feeble hands, and will seek me elsewhere a flock which will
not fly from their shepherd at the braying of the first wild ass which cometh from out the
great desert."

So saying, the aggrieved divine departed from his pulpit, and shaking the dust from his shoes,
left the church as hastily as he had entered it, though with a different reason for his speed.
The citizens saw his retreat with sorrow, and not without a compunctious feeling, as if conscious
that they were not playing the most courageous part in the world. The Mayor himself and several
others left the church, to follow and appease him.

The author of this singular and rare tract indulges in the allegorical style, till he fairly
hunts down the allegory.

"But as for what you call porridge, who hatched the name I know not, neither is it worth the
enquiring after, for I hold porridge good food. It is better to a sick man than meat, for a
sick man will sooner eat pottage than meat. Pottage will digest with him when meat will not:
pottage will nourish the blood, fill the veins, run into every part of a man, make him warmer;
so will these prayers do, set our soul and body in a heat, warm our devotion, work fervency
in us, lift up our soul to God. For there be herbs of God's own planting in our pottage as
ye call it--the Ten Commandments, dainty herbs to season any pottage in the world; there is
the Lord's Prayer, and that is a most sweet pot-herb, cannot be denied; then there is also
David's herbs, his prayers and psalms, helps to make our pottage relish well; the psalm of
the blessed Virgin, a good pot-herb. Though they be, as some term them, cock-crowed pottage,
yet they are as sweet, as good, as dainty, and as fresh, as they were at first. The sun hath
not made them sour with its heat, neither hath the cold water taken away their vigour and strength.
Compare them with the Scriptures, and see if they be not as well seasoned and crumbed. If you
find any thing in them that is either too salt, too fresh, or too bitter, that herb shall be
taken out and better put in, if it can be got, or none. And as in kitchen pottage there are
many good herbs, so there is likewise in this church pottage, as ye call it. For first, there
is in kitchen pottage good water to make them so; on the contrary, in the other pottage there
is the water of life. 2. There is salt, to season them; so in the other is a prayer of grace
to season their hearts. 3. There is oatmeal to nourish the body, in the other is the bread
of life. 4. There is thyme in them to relish them, and it is very wholesome--in the other is
the wholesome exhortation not to harden our heart while it is called to-day. This relisheth
well. 5. There is a small onion to give a taste--in the other is a good herb, called Lord have
mercy on us. These, and many other holy herbs are contained in it, all boiling in the heart
of man, will make as good pottage as the world can afford, especially if you use these herbs
for digestion. The herb repentance, the herb grace, the herb faith, the herb love, the herb
hope, the herb good works, the herb feeling, the herb zeal, the herb fervency, the herb ardency,
the herb constancy, with many more of this nature, most excellent for digestion." Ohe! jam
satis. In this manner the learned divine hunts his metaphor at a very cold scent, through a
pamphlet of six mortal quarto pages.)

The language which, in its literal sense, was applied to King David, and typically referred
to the coming of the Messiah, was, in the opinion of the military orator, most properly to
be interpreted of Oliver Cromwell, the victorious general of the infant Commonwealth, which
was never destined to come of age. "Gird on thy sword!" exclaimed the preacher emphatically;
"and was not that a pretty bit of steel as ever dangled from a corslet, or rung against a steel
saddle? Ay, ye prick up your ears now, ye cutlers of Woodstock, as if ye should know something
of a good fox broad sword--Did you forge it, I trow?--was the steel quenched with water from
Rosamond's well, or the blade blessed by the old cuckoldy priest of Godstow? You would have
us think, I warrant me, that you wrought it and welded it, grinded and polished it, and all
the while it never came on a Woodstock stithy! You were all too busy making whittles for the
lazy crape-men of Oxford, bouncing priests, whose eyes were so closed up with fat, that they
could not see Destruction till she had them by the throat. But I can tell you where the sword
was forged, and tempered, and welded, and grinded, and polished. When you were, as I said before,
making whittles for false priests, and daggers for dissolute G--d d--n-me cavaliers, to cut
the people of England's throats with--it was forged at Long Marston Moor, where blows went
faster than ever rung hammer on anvil--and it was tempered at Naseby, in the best blood of
the cavaliers--and it was welded in Ireland against the walls of Drogheda--and it was grinded
on Scottish lives at Dunbar--and now of late it was polished in Worcester, till it shines as
bright as the sun in the middle heaven, and there is no light in England that shall come nigh
unto it."

Here the military part of the congregation raised a hum of approbation, which, being a sound
like the "hear, hear," of the British House of Commons, was calculated to heighten the enthusiasm
of the orator, by intimating the sympathy of the audience. "And then," resumed the preacher,
rising in energy as he found that his audience partook in these feelings, "what saith the text?--Ride
on prosperously--do not stop--do not call a halt--do not quit the saddle--pursue the scattered
fliers--sound the trumpet--not a levant or a flourish, but a point of war--sound, boot and
saddle--to horse and away--a charge!--follow after the young Man!--what part have we in him?--Slay,
take, destroy, divide the spoil! Blessed art thou, Oliver, on account of thine honour--thy
cause is clear, thy call is undoubted--never has defeat come near thy leading-staff, nor disaster
attended thy banner. Ride on, flower of England's soldiers! ride on, chosen leader of God's
champions! gird up the loins of thy resolution, and be steadfast to the mark of thy high calling."

Another deep and stern hum, echoed by the ancient embow'd arches of the old chantry, gave him
an opportunity of an instant's repose; when the people of Woodstock heard him, and not without
anxiety, turn the stream of his oratory into another channel.

"But wherefore, ye people of Woodstock, do I say these things to you, who claim no portion
in our David, no interest in England's son of Jesse?--You, who were fighting as well as your
might could (and it was not very formidable) for the late Man, under that old blood-thirsty
papist Sir Jacob Aston--are you not now plotting, or ready to plot, for the restoring, as ye
call it, of the young Man, the unclean son of the slaughtered tyrant--the fugitive after whom
the true hearts of England are now following, that they may take and slay him?--'Why should
your rider turn his bridle our way?' say you in your hearts; 'we will none of him; if we may
help ourselves, we will rather turn us to wallow in the mire of monarchy, with the sow that
was washed but newly.' Come, men of Woodstock, I will ask, and do you answer me. Hunger ye
still after the flesh-pots of the monks of Godstow? and ye will say, Nay;--but wherefore, except
that the pots are cracked and broken, and the fire is extinguished wherewith thy oven used
to boil? And again, I ask, drink ye still of the well of fornications of the fair Rosamond?--ye
will say, Nay;--but wherefore?"--

Here the orator, ere he could answer the question in his own way, was surprised by the following
reply, very pithily pronounced by one of the congregation:--"Because you, and the like of you,
have left us no brandy to mix with it."

All eyes turned to the audacious speaker, who stood beside one of the thick sturdy Saxon pillars,
which he himself somewhat resembled, being short of stature, but very strongly made, a squat
broad Little John sort of figure, leaning on a quarterstaff, and wearing a jerkin, which, though
now sorely stained and discoloured, had once been of the Lincoln green, and showed remnants
of having been laced. There was an air of careless, good humoured audacity about the fellow;
and, though under military restraint, there were some of the citizens who could not help crying
out,--"Well said, Joceline Joliffe!"

"Jolly Joceline, call ye him?" proceeded the preacher, without showing either confusion or
displeasure at the interruption,--"I will make him Joceline of the jail, if he interrupts me
again. One of your park-keepers, I warrant, that can never forget they have borne C. R. upon
their badges and bugle-horns, even as a dog bears his owner's name on his collar--a pretty
emblem for Christian men! But the brute beast hath the better of him,--the brute weareth his
own coat, and the caitiff thrall wears his master's. I have seen such a wag make a rope's end
wag ere now.--Where was I?--Oh, rebuking you for your backslidings, men of Woodstock.--Yes,
then ye will say ye have renounced Popery, and ye have renounced Prelacy, and then ye wipe
your mouth like Pharisees, as ye are; and who but you for purity of religion! But I tell you,
ye are but like Jehu the son of Nimshi, who broke down the house of Baal, yet departed not
from the sins of Jeroboam. Even so ye eat not fish on Friday with the blinded Papists, nor
minced-pies on the 25th day of December, like the slothful Prelatists; but ye will gorge on
sack-posset each night in the year with your blind Presbyterian guide, and ye will speak evil
of dignities, and revile the Commonwealth; and ye will glorify yourselves in your park of Woodstock,
and say, 'Was it not walled in first of any other in England, and that by Henry, son of William
called the Conqueror?' And ye have a princely Lodge therein, and call the same a Royal Lodge;
and ye have an oak which ye call the King's Oak; and ye steal and eat the venison of the park,
and ye say, 'This is the king's venison, we will wash it down with a cup to the king's health--better
we eat it than those round-headed commonwealth knaves.' But listen unto me and take warning.
For these things come we to controversy with you. And our name shall be a cannon-shot, before
which your Lodge, in the pleasantness whereof ye take pastime, shall be blown into ruins; and
we will be as a wedge to split asunder the King's Oak into billets to heat a brown baker's
oven; and we will dispark your park, and slay your deer, and eat them ourselves, neither shall
you have any portion thereof, whether in neck or haunch. Ye shall not haft a ten-penny knife
with the horns thereof, neither shall ye cut a pair of breeches out of the hide, for all ye
be cutlers and glovers; and ye shall have no comfort or support neither from the sequestered
traitor Henry Lee, who called himself Ranger of Woodstock, nor from any on his behalf; for
they are coming hither who shall be called Mahershalal-hash-baz, because he maketh haste to
the spoil."

Here ended the wild effusion, the latter part of which fell heavy on the souls of the poor
citizens of Woodstock, as tending to confirm a report of an unpleasing nature which had been
lately circulated. The communication with London was indeed slow, and the news which it transmitted
were uncertain; no less uncertain were the times themselves, and the rumours which were circulated,
exaggerated by the hopes and fears of so many various factions. But the general stream of report,
so far as Woodstock was concerned, had of late run uniformly in one direction. Day after day
they had been informed, that the fatal fiat of Parliament had gone out, for selling the park
of Woodstock, destroying its lodge, disparking its forest, and erasing, as far as they could
be erased, all traces of its ancient fame. Many of the citizens were likely to be sufferers
on this occasion, as several of them enjoyed, either by sufferance or right, various convenient
privileges of pasturage, cutting firewood, and the like, in the royal chase; and all the inhabitants
of the little borough were hurt to think, that the scenery of the place was to be destroyed,
its edifices ruined, and its honours rent away. This is a patriotic sensation often found in
such places, which ancient distinctions and long-cherished recollections of former days, render
so different from towns of recent date. The natives of Woodstock felt it in the fullest force.
They had trembled at the anticipated calamity; but now, when it was announced by the appearance
of those dark, stern, and at the same time omnipotent soldiers--now that they heard it proclaimed
by the mouth of one of their military preachers--they considered their fate as inevitable.
The causes of disagreement among themselves were for the time forgotten, as the congregation,
dismissed without psalmody or benediction, went slowly and mournfully homeward, each to his
own place of abode.

       *       *        *       *        *

CHAPTER THE SECOND.

  Come forth, old man--Thy daughter's side
    Is now the fitting place for thee:
  When time hath quell'd the oak's bold pride,
    The youthful tendril yet may hide
      The ruins of the parent tree.

When the sermon was ended, the military orator wiped his brow; for, notwithstanding the coolness
of the weather, he was heated with the vehemence of his speech and action. He then descended
from the pulpit, and spoke a word or two to the corporal who commanded the party of soldiers,
who, replying by a sober nod of intelligence, drew his men together, and marched them in order
to their quarters in the town.

The preacher himself, as if nothing extraordinary had happened, left the church and sauntered
through the streets of Woodstock, with the air of a stranger who was viewing the town, without
seeming to observe that he was himself in his turn anxiously surveyed by the citizens, whose
furtive yet frequent glances seemed to regard him as something alike suspected and dreadful,
yet on no account to be provoked. He heeded them not, but stalked on in the manner affected
by the distinguished fanatics of the day; a stiff solemn pace, a severe and at the same time
a contemplative look, like that of a man discomposed at the interruptions which earthly objects
forced upon him, obliging him by their intrusion to withdraw his thoughts for an instant from
celestial things. Innocent pleasures of what kind soever they held in suspicion and contempt,
and innocent mirth they abominated. It was, however, a cast of mind that formed men for great
and manly actions, as it adopted principle, and that of an unselfish character, for the ruling
motive, instead of the gratification of passion. Some of these men were indeed hypocrites,
using the cloak of religion only as a covering for their ambition; but many really possessed
the devotional character, and the severe republican virtue, which others only affected. By
far the greater number hovered between these extremes, felt to a certain extent the power of
religion, and complied with the times in affecting a great deal.

The individual, whose pretensions to sanctity, written as they were upon his brow and gait,
have given rise to the above digression, reached at length the extremity of the principal street,
which terminates upon the park of Woodstock. A battlemented portal of Gothic appearance defended
the entrance to the avenue. It was of mixed architecture, but on the whole, though composed
of the styles of the different ages when it had received additions, had a striking and imposing
effect. An immense gate, composed of rails of hammered iron, with many a flourish and scroll,
displaying as its uppermost ornament the ill-fated cipher of C. R., was now decayed, being
partly wasted with rust, partly by violence.

The stranger paused, as if uncertain whether he should demand or assay entrance. He looked
through the grating down an avenue skirted by majestic oaks, which led onward with a gentle
curve, as if into the depths of some ample and ancient forest. The wicket of the large iron
gate being left unwittingly open, the soldier was tempted to enter, yet with some hesitation,
as he that intrudes upon ground which he conjectures may be prohibited--indeed his manner showed
more reverence for the scene than could have been expected from his condition and character.
He slackened his stately and consequential pace, and at length stood still, and looked around him.

Not far from the gate, he saw rising from the trees one or two ancient and venerable turrets,
bearing each its own vane of rare device glittering in the autumn sun. These indicated the
ancient hunting seat, or Lodge, as it was called, which had, since the time of Henry II., been
occasionally the residence of the English monarchs, when it pleased them to visit the woods
of Oxford, which then so abounded with game, that, according to old Fuller, huntsmen and falconers
were nowhere better pleased. The situation which the Lodge occupied was a piece of flat ground,
now planted with sycamores, not far from the entrance to that magnificent spot where the spectator
first stops to gaze upon Blenheim, to think of Marlborough's victories, and to applaud or criticise
the cumbrous magnificence of Vanburgh's style.

There, too, paused our military preacher, but with other thoughts, and for other purpose, than
to admire the scene around him. It was not long afterwards when he beheld two persons, a male
and a female, approaching slowly, and so deeply engaged in their own conversation that they
did not raise their eyes to observe that there stood a stranger in the path before them. The
soldier took advantage of their state of abstraction, and, desirous at once to watch their
motions and avoid their observation, he glided beneath one of the huge trees which skirted
the path, and whose boughs, sweeping the ground on every side, ensured him against discovery,
unless in case of an actual search.

In the meantime, the gentleman and lady continued to advance, directing their course to a rustic
seat, which still enjoyed the sunbeams, and was placed adjacent to the tree where the stranger
was concealed.

The man was elderly, yet seemed bent more by sorrow and infirmity than by the weight of years.
He wore a mourning cloak, over a dress of the same melancholy colour, cut in that picturesque
form which Vandyck has rendered immortal. But although the dress was handsome, it was put on
with a carelessness which showed the mind of the wearer ill at ease. His aged, yet still handsome
countenance, had the same air of consequence which distinguished his dress and his gait. A
striking part of his appearance was a long white beard, which descended far over the breast
of his slashed doublet, and looked singular from its contrast in colour with his habit.

The young lady, by whom this venerable gentleman seemed to be in some degree supported as they
walked arm in arm, was a slight and sylphlike form, with a person so delicately made, and so
beautiful in countenance, that it seemed the earth on which she walked was too grossly massive
a support for a creature so aerial. But mortal beauty must share human sorrows. The eyes of
the beautiful being showed tokens of tears; her colour was heightened as she listened to her
aged companion; and it was plain, from his melancholy yet displeased look, that the conversation
was as distressing to himself as to her. When they sate down on the bench we have mentioned,
the gentleman's discourse could be distinctly overheard by the eavesdropping soldier, but the
answers of the young lady reached his ear rather less distinctly.

"It is not to be endured!" said the old man, passionately; "it would stir up a paralytic wretch
to start up a soldier. My people have been thinned, I grant you, or have fallen off from me
in these times--I owe them no grudge for it, poor knaves; what should they do waiting on me
when the pantry has no bread and the buttery no ale? But we have still about us some rugged
foresters of the old Woodstock breed--old as myself most of them--what of that? old wood seldom
warps in the wetting;--I will hold out the old house, and it will not be the first time that
I have held it against ten times the strength that we hear of now."

"Alas! my dear father!"--said the young lady, in a tone which seemed to intimate his proposal
of defence to be altogether desperate.

"And why, alas?" said the gentleman, angrily; "is it because I shut my door against a score
or two of these blood-thirsty hypocrites?"

"But their masters can as easily send a regiment or an army, if they will," replied the lady;
"and what good would your present defence do, excepting to exasperate them to your utter destruction?"

"Be it so, Alice," replied her father; "I have lived my time, and beyond it. I have outlived
the kindest and most princelike of masters. What do I do on the earth since the dismal thirtieth
of January? The parricide of that day was a signal to all true servants of Charles Stewart
to avenge his death, or die as soon after as they could find a worthy opportunity."

"Do not speak thus, sir," said Alice Lee; "it does not become your gravity and your worth to
throw away that life which may yet be of service to your king and country,--it will not and
cannot always be thus. England will not long endure the rulers which these bad times have assigned
her. In the meanwhile--[here a few words escaped the listener's ears]--and beware of that impatience,
which makes bad worse."

"Worse?" exclaimed the impatient old man, "What can be worse? Is it not at the worst already?
Will not these people expel us from the only shelter we have left--dilapidate what remains
of royal property under my charge--make the palace of princes into a den of thieves, and then
wipe their mouths and thank God, as if they had done an alms-deed?"

"Still," said his daughter, "there is hope behind, and I trust the King is ere this out of
their reach--We have reason to think well of my brother Albert's safety."

"Ay, Albert! there again," said the old man, in a tone of reproach; "had it not been for thy
entreaties I had gone to Worcester myself; but I must needs lie here like a worthless hound
when the hunt is up, when who knows what service I might have shown? An old man's head is sometimes
useful when his arm is but little worth. But you and Albert were so desirous that he should
go alone--and now, who can say what has become of him?"

"Nay, nay, father," said Alice, "we have good hope that Albert escaped from that fatal day;
young Abney saw him a mile from the field."

"Young Abney lied, I believe," said the father, in the same humour of contradiction--"Young
Abney's tongue seems quicker than his hands, but far slower than his horse's heels when he
leaves the roundheads behind him. I would rather Albert's dead body were laid between Charles
and Cromwell, than hear he fled as early as young Abney."

"My dearest father," said the young lady, weeping as she spoke, "what can I say to comfort you?"

"Comfort me, say'st thou, girl? I am sick of comfort--an honourable death, with the ruins of
Woodstock for my monument, were the only comfort to old Henry Lee. Yes, by the memory of my
fathers! I will make good the Lodge against these rebellious robbers."

"Yet be ruled, dearest father," said the maiden, "and submit to that which we cannot gainsay.
My uncle Everard"--

Here the old man caught at her unfinished words. "Thy uncle Everard, wench!--Well, get on.--What
of thy precious and loving uncle Everard?"

"Nothing, sir," she said, "if the subject displeases you."

"Displeases me?" he replied, "why should it displease me? or if it did, why shouldst thou,
or any one, affect to care about it? What is it that hath happened of late years--what is it
can be thought to happen that astrologer can guess at, which can give pleasure to us?"

"Fate," she replied, "may have in store the joyful restoration of our banished Prince."

"Too late for my time, Alice," said the knight; "if there be such a white page in the heavenly
book, it will not be turned until long after my day.--But I see thou wouldst escape me.--In
a word, what of thy uncle Everard?"

"Nay, sir," said Alice, "God knows I would rather be silent for ever, than speak what might,
as you would take it, add to your present distemperature."

"Distemperature!" said her father; "Oh, thou art a sweet lipped physician, and wouldst, I warrant
me, drop nought but sweet balm, and honey, and oil, on my distemperature--if that is the phrase
for an old man's ailment, when he is wellnigh heart-broken.--Once more, what of thy uncle Everard?"

His last words were uttered in a high and peevish tone of voice; and Alice Lee answered her
father in a trembling and submissive tone.

"I only meant to say, sir, that I am well assured that my uncle Everard, when we quit this place"--

"That is to say, when we are kicked out of it by crop-eared canting villains like himself.--But
on with thy bountiful uncle--what will he do?--will he give us the remains of his worshipful
and economical housekeeping, the fragments of a thrice-sacked capon twice a-week, and a plentiful
fast on the other five days?--Will he give us beds beside his half-starved nags, and put them
under a short allowance of straw, that his sister's husband--that I should have called my deceased
angel by such a name!--and his sister's daughter, may not sleep on the stones? Or will he send
us a noble each, with a warning to make it last, for he had never known the ready-penny so
hard to come by? Or what else will your uncle Everard do for us? Get us a furlough to beg?
Why, I can do that without him."

"You misconstrue him much," answered Alice, with more spirit than she had hitherto displayed;
"and would you but question your own heart, you would acknowledge--I speak with reverence--that
your tongue utters what your better judgment would disown. My uncle Everard is neither a miser
nor a hypocrite--neither so fond of the goods of this world that he would not supply our distresses
amply, nor so wedded to fanatical opinions as to exclude charity for other sects beside his own."

"Ay, ay, the Church of England is a sect with him, I doubt not, and perhaps with thee too,
Alice," said the knight. "What is a Muggletonian, or a Ranter, or a Brownist, but a sectary?
and thy phrase places them all, with Jack Presbyter himself, on the same footing with our learned
prelates and religious clergy! Such is the cant of the day thou livest in, and why shouldst
thou not talk like one of the wise virgins and psalm-singing sisters, since, though thou hast
a profane old cavalier for a father, thou art own niece to pious uncle Everard?"

"If you speak thus, my dear father," said Alice, "what can I answer you? Hear me but one patient
word, and I shall have discharged my uncle Everard's commission."

"Oh, it is a commission, then? Surely, I suspected so much from the beginning--nay, have some
sharp guess touching the ambassador also.-- Come, madam, the mediator, do your errand, and
you shall have no reason to complain of my patience."

"Then, sir," replied his daughter, "my uncle Everard desires you would be courteous to the
commissioners, who come here to sequestrate the parks and the property; or, at least, heedfully
to abstain from giving them obstacle or opposition: it can, he says, do no good, even on your
own principles, and it will give a pretext for proceeding against you as one in the worst degree
of malignity, which he thinks may otherwise be prevented. Nay, he has good hope, that if you
follow his counsel, the committee may, through the interest he possesses, be inclined to remove
the sequestration of your estate on a moderate line. Thus says my uncle; and having communicated
his advice, I have no occasion to urge your patience with farther argument."

"It is well thou dost not, Alice," answered Sir Henry Lee, in a tone of suppressed anger; "for,
by the blessed Rood, thou hast well nigh led me into the heresy of thinking thee no daughter
of mine.--Ah! my beloved companion, who art now far from the sorrows and cares of this weary
world, couldst thou have thought that the daughter thou didst clasp to thy bosom, would, like
the wicked wife of Job, become a temptress to her father in the hour of affliction, and recommend
to him to make his conscience truckle to his interest, and to beg back at the bloody hands
of his master's and perhaps his son's murderers, a wretched remnant of the royal property he
has been robbed of!--Why, wench, if I must beg, think'st thou I will sue to those who have
made me a mendicant? No. I will never show my grey beard, worn in sorrow for my sovereign's
death, to move the compassion of some proud sequestrator, who perhaps was one of the parricides.
No. If Henry Lee must sue for food, it shall be of some sound loyalist like himself, who, having
but half a loaf remaining, will not nevertheless refuse to share it with him. For his daughter,
she may wander her own way, which leads her to a refuge with her wealthy roundhead kinsfolk;
but let her no more call him father, whose honest indigence she has refused to share!"

"You do me injustice, sir," answered the young lady, with a voice animated yet faltering, "cruel
injustice. God knows, your way is my way, though it lead to ruin and beggary; and while you
tread it, my arm shall support you while you will accept an aid so feeble."

"Thou word'st me, girl," answered the old cavalier, "thou word'st me, as Will Shakspeare says--thou
speakest of lending me thy arm; but thy secret thought is thyself to hang upon Markham Everard's."

"My father, my father," answered Alice, in a tone of deep grief, "what can thus have altered
your clear judgment and kindly heart!--Accursed be these civil commotions; not only do they
destroy men's bodies, but they pervert their souls; and the brave, the noble, the generous,
become suspicious, harsh, and mean! Why upbraid me with Markham Everard? Have I seen or spoke
to him since you forbid him my company, with terms less kind--I will speak it truly--than was
due even to the relationship betwixt you? Why think I would sacrifice to that young man my
duty to you? Know, that were I capable of such criminal weakness, Markham Everard were the
first to despise me for it."

She put her handkerchief to her eyes, but she could not hide her sobs, nor conceal the distress
they intimated. The old man was moved.

"I cannot tell," he said, "what to think of it. Thou seem'st sincere, and wert ever a good
and kindly daughter--how thou hast let that rebel youth creep into thy heart I wot not; perhaps
it is a punishment on me, who thought the loyalty of my house was like undefiled ermine. Yet
here is a damned spot, and on the fairest gem of all--my own dear Alice. But do not weep--we
have enough to vex us. Where is it that Shakspeare hath it:--

  'Gentle daughter,
  Give even way unto my rough affairs:
  Put you not on the temper of the times,
  Nor be, like them, to Percy troublesome.'"

"I am glad," answered the young lady, "to hear you quote your favourite again, sir. Our little
jars are ever wellnigh ended when Shakspeare comes in play."

"His book was the closet-companion of my blessed master," said Sir Henry Lee; "after the Bible,
(with reverence for naming them together,) he felt more comfort in it than in any other; and
as I have shared his disease, why, it is natural I should take his medicine. Albeit, I pretend
not to my master's art in explaining the dark passages; for I am but a rude man, and rustically
brought up to arms and hunting."

"You have seen Shakspeare yourself, sir?" said the young lady.

"Silly wench," replied the knight, "he died when I was a mere child--thou hast heard me say
so twenty times; but thou wouldst lead the old man away from the tender subject. Well, though
I am not blind, I can shut my eyes and follow. Ben Jonson I knew, and could tell thee many
a tale of our meetings at the Mermaid, where, if there was much wine, there was much wit also.
We did not sit blowing tobacco in each other's faces, and turning up the whites of our eyes
as we turned up the bottom of the wine-pot. Old Ben adopted me as one of his sons in the muses.
I have shown you, have I not, the verses, 'To my much beloved son, the worshipful Sir Henry
Lee of Ditchley, Knight and Baronet?'"

"I do not remember them at present, sir," replied Alice.

"I fear ye lie, wench," said her father; "but no matter--thou canst not get any more fooling
out of me just now. The Evil Spirit hath left Saul for the present. We are now to think what
is to be done about leaving Woodstock--or defending it?"

"My dearest father," said Alice, "can you still nourish a moment's hope of making good the place?"

"I know not, wench," replied Sir Henry; "I would fain have a parting blow with them, 'tis certain--and
who knows where a blessing may alight? But then, my poor knaves that must take part with me
in so hopeless a quarrel--that thought hampers me I confess."

"Oh, let it do so, sir," replied Alice; "there are soldiers in the town, and there are three
regiments at Oxford!"

"Ah, poor Oxford!" exclaimed Sir Henry, whose vacillating state of mind was turned by a word
to any new subject that was suggested,--"Seat of learning and loyalty! these rude soldiers
are unfit inmates for thy learned halls and poetical bowers; but thy pure and brilliant lamp
shall defy the foul breath of a thousand churls, were they to blow at it like Boreas. The burning
bush shall not be consumed, even by the heat of this persecution."

"True, sir," said Alice, "and it may not be useless to recollect, that any stirring of the
royalists at this unpropitious moment will make them deal yet more harshly with the University,
which they consider as being at the bottom of every thing which moves for the King in these parts."

"It is true, wench," replied the knight; "and small cause would make the villains sequestrate
the poor remains which the civil wars have left to the colleges. That, and the risk of my poor
fellows--Well! thou hast disarmed me, girl. I will be as patient and calm as a martyr."

"Pray God you keep your word, sir!" replied his daughter; "but you are ever so much moved at
the sight of any of these men, that"--

"Would you make a child of me, Alice?" said Sir Henry. "Why, know you not that I can look upon
a viper, or a toad, or a bunch of engendering adders, without any worse feeling than a little
disgust? and though a roundhead, and especially a red-coat, are in my opinion more poisonous
than vipers, more loathsome than toads, more hateful than knotted adders, yet can I overcome
my nature so far, that should one of them appear at this moment, thyself should see how civilly
I would entreat him."

As he spoke, the military preacher abandoned his leafy screen, and stalking forward, stood
unexpectedly before the old cavalier, who stared at him, as if he had thought his expressions
had actually raised a devil.

"Who art thou?" at length said Sir Henry, in a raised and angry voice, while his daughter clung
to his arm in terror, little confident that her father's pacific resolutions would abide the
shock of this unwelcome apparition.

"I am, one," replied the soldier, "who neither fear nor shame to call myself a poor day-labourer
in the great work of England--umph!--Ay, a simple and sincere upholder of the good old cause."

"And what the devil do you seek here?" said the old knight, fiercely.

"The welcome due to the steward of the Lords Commissioners," answered the soldier.

"Welcome art thou as salt would be to sore eyes," said the cavalier; "but who be your Commissioners,
man?"

The soldier with little courtesy held out a scroll, which Sir Henry took from him betwixt his
finger and thumb, as if it were a letter from a pest-house; and held it at as much distance
from his eyes, as his purpose of reading it would permit. He then read aloud, and as he named
the parties one by one, he added a short commentary on each name, addressed, indeed, to Alice,
but in such a tone that showed he cared not for its being heard by the soldier.

"Desborough--the ploughman Desborough--as grovelling a clown as is in England--a fellow that
would be best at home like an ancient Scythian, under the tilt of a waggon--d--n him. Harrison--a
bloody-minded, ranting enthusiast, who read the Bible to such purpose, that he never lacked
a text to justify a murder--d--n him too. Bletson--a true-blue Commonwealth's man, one of Harrison's
Rota Club, with his noddle full of new fangled notions about government, the clearest object
of which is to establish the tail upon the head; a fellow who leaves you the statutes and law
of old England, to prate of Rome and Greece--sees the Areopagus in Westminster-Hall, and takes
old Noll for a Roman consul--Adad, he is like to prove a dictator amongst them instead. Never
mind--d--n Bletson too."

"Friend," said the soldier, "I would willingly be civil, but it consists not with my duty to
hear these godly men, in whose service I am, spoken of after this irreverent and unbecoming
fashion. And albeit I know that you malignants think you have a right to make free with that
damnation, which you seem to use as your own portion, yet it is superfluous to invoke it against
others, who have better hopes in their thoughts, and better words in their mouths."

"Thou art but a canting varlet," replied the knight; "and yet thou art right in some sense--for
it is superfluous to curse men who already are damned as black as the smoke of hell itself."

"I prithee forbear," continued the soldier, "for manners' sake, if not for conscience--grisly
oaths suit ill with grey beards."

"Nay, that is truth, if the devil spoke it," said the knight; "and I thank Heaven I can follow
good counsel, though old Nick gives it. And so, friend, touching these same Commissioners,
bear them this message; that Sir Henry Lee is keeper of Woodstock Park, with right of waif
and stray, vert and venison, as complete as any of them have to their estate--that is, if they
possess any estate but what they have gained by plundering honest men. Nevertheless, he will
give place to those who have made their might their right, and will not expose the lives of
good and true men, where the odds are so much against them. And he protests that he makes this
surrender, neither as acknowledging of these so termed Commissioners, nor as for his own individual
part fearing their force, but purely to avoid the loss of English blood, of which so much hath
been spilt in these late times."

"It is well spoken," said the steward of the Commissioners; "and therefore, I pray you, let
us walk together into the house, that thou may'st deliver up unto me the vessels, and gold
and silver ornaments, belonging unto the Egyptian Pharaoh, who committed them to thy keeping."

"What vessels?" exclaimed the fiery old knight; "and belonging to whom? Unbaptized dog, speak
civil of the Martyr in my presence, or I will do a deed misbecoming of me on that caitiff corpse
of thine!"--And shaking his daughter from his right arm, the old man laid his hand on his rapier.

His antagonist, on the contrary, kept his temper completely, and waving his hand to add impression
to his speech, he said, with a calmness which aggravated Sir Henry's wrath, "Nay, good friend,
I prithee be still, and brawl not--it becomes not grey hairs and feeble arms to rail and rant
like drunkards. Put me not to use the carnal weapon in mine own defence, but listen to the
voice of reason. See'st thou not that the Lord hath decided this great controversy in favour
of us and ours, against thee and thine? Wherefore, render up thy stewardship peacefully, and
deliver up to me the chattels of the Man, Charles Stewart."

"Patience is a good nag, but she will bolt," said the knight, unable longer to rein in his
wrath. He plucked his sheathed rapier from his side, struck the soldier a severe blow with
it, and instantly drawing it, and throwing the scabbard over the trees, placed himself in a
posture of defence, with his sword's point within half a yard of the steward's body. The latter
stepped back with activity, threw his long cloak from his shoulders, and drawing his long tuck,
stood upon his guard. The swords clashed smartly together, while Alice, in her terror, screamed
wildly for assistance. But the combat was of short duration. The old cavalier had attacked
a man as cunning of fence as he himself, or a little more so, and possessing all the strength
and activity of which time had deprived Sir Henry, and the calmness which the other had lost
in his passion. They had scarce exchanged three passes ere the sword of the knight flew up
in the air, as if it had gone in search of the scabbard; and burning with shame and anger,
Sir Henry stood disarmed, at the mercy of his antagonist. The republican showed no purpose
of abusing his victory; nor did he, either during the combat, or after the victory was won,
in any respect alter the sour and grave composure which reigned upon his countenance--a combat
of life and death seemed to him a thing as familiar, and as little to be feared, as an ordinary
bout with foils.

"Thou art delivered into my hands," he said, "and by the law of arms I might smite thee under
the fifth rib, even as Asahel was struck dead by Abner, the son of Ner, as he followed the
chase on the hill of Ammah, that lieth before Giah, in the way of the wilderness of Gibeon;
but far be it from me to spill thy remaining drops of blood. True it is, thou art the captive
of my sword and of my spear; nevertheless, seeing that there may be a turning from thy evil
ways, and a returning to those which are good, if the Lord enlarge thy date for repentance
and amendment, wherefore should it be shortened by a poor sinful mortal, who is, speaking truly,
but thy fellow-worm."

Sir Henry Lee remained still confused, and unable to answer, when there arrived a fourth person,
whom the cries of Alice had summoned to the spot. This was Joceline Joliffe, one of the under-keepers
of the walk, who, seeing how matters stood, brandished his quarterstaff, a weapon from which
he never parted, and having made it describe the figure of eight in a flourish through the
air, would have brought it down with a vengeance upon the head of the steward, had not Sir
Henry interposed.

"We must trail bats now, Joceline--our time of shouldering them is past. It skills not striving
against the stream--the devil rules the roast, and makes our slaves our tutors."

At this moment another auxiliary rushed out of the thicket to the knight's assistance. It was
a large wolf-dog, in strength a mastiff, in form and almost in fleetness a greyhound. Bevis
was the noblest of the kind which ever pulled down a stag, tawny coloured like a lion, with
a black muzzle and black feet, just edged with a line of white round the toes. He was as tractable
as he was strong and bold. Just as he was about to rush upon the soldier, the words, "Peace,
Bevis!" from Sir Henry, converted the lion into a lamb, and instead of pulling the soldier
down, he walked round and round, and snuffed, as if using all his sagacity to discover who
the stranger could be, towards whom, though of so questionable an appearance, he was enjoined
forbearance. Apparently he was satisfied, for he laid aside his doubtful and threatening demonstrations,
lowered his ears, smoothed down his bristles, and wagged his tail.

Sir Henry, who had great respect for the sagacity of his favourite, said in a low voice to
Alice, "Bevis is of thy opinion and counsels submission. There is the finger of Heaven in this
to punish the pride, ever the fault of our house.--Friend," he continued, addressing the soldier,
"thou hast given the finishing touch to a lesson, which ten years of constant misfortune have
been unable fully to teach me. Thou hast distinctly shown me the folly of thinking that a good
cause can strengthen a weak arm. God forgive me for the thought, but I could almost turn infidel,
and believe that Heaven's blessing goes ever with the longest sword; but it will not be always
thus. God knows his time.--Reach me my Toledo, Joceline, yonder it lies; and the scabbard,
see where it hangs on the tree.--Do not pull at my cloak, Alice, and look so miserably frightened;
I shall be in no hurry to betake me to bright steel again, I promise thee.--For thee, good
fellow, I thank thee, and will make way for thy masters without farther dispute or ceremony.
Joceline Joliffe is nearer thy degree than I am, and will make surrender to thee of the Lodge
and household stuff. Withhold nothing, Joliffe--let them have all. For me, I will never cross
the threshold again--but where to rest for a night? I would trouble no one in Woodstock--hum--ay--it
shall be so. Alice and I, Joceline, will go down to thy hut by Rosamond's well; we will borrow
the shelter of thy roof for one night at least; thou wilt give us welcome, wilt thou not?--How
now--a clouded brow?"

Joceline certainly looked embarrassed, directed a first glance to Alice, then looked to Heaven,
then to earth, and last to the four quarters of the horizon, and then murmured out, "Certainly--without
question--might he but run down to put the house in order."

"Order enough--order enough for those that may soon be glad of clean straw in a barn," said
the knight; "but if thou hast an ill-will to harbour any obnoxious or malignant persons, as
the phrase goes, never shame to speak it out, man. 'Tis true, I took thee up when thou wert
but a ragged Robin," (as the keeper's followers in the New Forest are called in popular language,)
"made a keeper of thee, and so forth. What of that? Sailors think no longer of the wind than
when it forwards them on the voyage--thy betters turn with the tide, why should not such a
poor knave as thou?"

"God pardon your honour for your harsh judgment," said Joliffe. "The hut is yours, such as
it is, and should be were it a King's palace, as I wish it were even for your honour's sake,
and Mistress Alice's--only I could wish your honour would condescend to let me step down before,
in case any neighbour be there--or--or--just to put matters something into order for Mistress
Alice and your honour--just to make things something seemly and shapely."

"Not a whit necessary," said the knight, while Alice had much trouble in concealing her agitation.
"If thy matters are unseemly, they are fitter for a defeated knight--if they are unshapely,
why, the liker to the rest of a world, which is all unshaped. Go thou with that man.--What
is thy name, friend?"

"Joseph Tomkins is my name in the flesh," said the steward. "Men call me Honest Joe, and Trusty
Tomkins."

"If thou hast deserved such names, considering what trade thou hast driven, thou art a jewel
indeed," said the knight; "yet if thou hast not, never blush for the matter, Joseph, for if
thou art not in truth honest, thou hast all the better chance to keep the fame of it--the title
and the thing itself have long walked separate ways. Farewell to thee,--and farewell to fair
Woodstock!"

So saying, the old knight turned round, and pulling his daughter's arm through his own, they
walked onward into the forest, in the same manner in which they were introduced to the reader.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER THE THIRD.

  Now, ye wild blades, that make loose inns your stage,
  To vapour forth the acts of this sad age,
  Stout Edgehill fight, the Newberries and the West,
  And northern clashes, where you still fought best;
  Your strange escapes, your dangers void of fear,
  When bullets flew between the head and ear,
  Whether you fought by Damme or the Spirit,
  Of you I speak.

  LEGEND OF CAPTAIN JONES.

Joseph Tomkins and Joliffe the keeper remained for some time in silence, as they stood together
looking along the path in which the figures of the Knight of Ditchley and pretty Mistress Alice
had disappeared behind the trees. They then gazed on each other in doubt, as men who scarce
knew whether they stood on hostile or on friendly terms together, and were at a loss how to
open a conversation. They heard the knight's whistle summon Bevis; but though the good hound
turned his head and pricked his ears at the sound, yet he did not obey the call, but continued
to snuff around Joseph Tomkins's cloak.

"Thou art a rare one, I fear me," said the keeper, looking to his new acquaintance. "I have
heard of men who have charms to steal both dogs and deer."

"Trouble not thyself about my qualities, friend," said Joseph Tomkins, "but bethink thee of
doing thy master's bidding."

Joceline did not immediately answer, but at length, as if in sign of truce, stuck the end of
his quarterstaff upright in the ground, and leant upon it as he said gruffly,--"So, my tough
old knight and you were at drawn bilbo, by way of afternoon service, sir preacher--Well for
you I came not up till the blades were done jingling, or I had rung even-song upon your pate."

The Independent smiled grimly as he replied, "Nay, friend, it is well for thyself, for never
should sexton have been better paid for the knell he tolled. Nevertheless, why should there
be war betwixt us, or my hand be against thine? Thou art but a poor knave, doing thy master's
order, nor have I any desire that my own blood or thine should be shed touching this matter.--Thou
art, I understand, to give me peaceful possession of the Palace of Woodstock, so called--though
there is now no palace in England, no, nor shall be in the days that come after, until we shall
enter the palace of the New Jerusalem, and the reign of the Saints shall commence on earth."

"Pretty well begun already, friend Tomkins," said the keeper; "you are little short of being
kings already upon the matter as it now stands; and for your Jerusalem I wot not, but Woodstock
is a pretty nest-egg to begin with.--Well, will you shog--will you on--will you take sasine
and livery?--You heard my orders."

"Umph--I know not," said Tomkins. "I must beware of ambuscades, and I am alone here. Moreover,
it is the High Thanksgiving appointed by Parliament, and owned to by the army--also the old
man and the young woman may want to recover some of their clothes and personal property, and
I would not that they were baulked on my account. Wherefore, if thou wilt deliver me possession
to-morrow morning, it shall be done in personal presence of my own followers, and of the Presbyterian
man the Mayor, so that the transfer may be made before witnesses; whereas, were there none
with us but thou to deliver, and I to take possession, the men of Belial might say, Go to,
Trusty Tomkins hath been an Edomite-- Honest Joe hath been as an Ishmaelite, rising up early
and dividing the spoil with them that served the Man--yea, they that wore beards and green
Jerkins, as in remembrance of the Man and of his government."

Joceline fixed his keen dark eyes upon the soldier as he spoke, as if in design to discover
whether there was fair play in his mind or not. He then applied his five fingers to scratch
a large shock head of hair, as if that operation was necessary to enable him to come to a conclusion.
"This is all fair sounding, brother," said he; "but I tell you plainly there are some silver
mugs, and platters, and flagons, and so forth, in yonder house, which have survived the general
sweep that sent all our plate to the smelting-pot, to put our knight's troop on horseback.
Now, if thou takest not these off my hand, I may come to trouble, since it may be thought I
have minished their numbers.--Whereas, I being as honest a fellow"--

"As ever stole venison," said Tomkins--"nay, I do owe thee an interruption."

"Go to, then," replied the keeper; "if a stag may have come to mischance in my walk, it was
no way in the course of dishonesty, but merely to keep my old dame's pan from rusting; but
for silver porringers, tankards, and such like, I would as soon have drunk the melted silver,
as stolen the vessel made out of it. So that I would not wish blame or suspicion fell on me
in this matter. And, therefore, if you will have the things rendered even now,--why so--and
if not, hold me blameless."

"Ay, truly," said Tomkins; "and who is to hold me blameless, if they should see cause to think
any thing minished? Not the right worshipful Commissioners, to whom the property of the estate
is as their own; therefore, as thou say'st, we must walk warily in the matter. To lock up the
house and leave it, were but the work of simple ones. What say'st thou to spend the night there,
and then nothing can be touched without the knowledge of us both?"

"Why, concerning that," answered the keeper, "I should be at my hut to make matters somewhat
conformable for the old knight and Mistress Alice, for my old dame Joan is something dunny,
and will scarce know how to manage--and yet,--to speak the truth, by the mass I would rather
not see Sir Henry to-night, since what has happened to-day hath roused his spleen, and it is
a peradventure he may have met something at the hut which will scarce tend to cool it."

"It is a pity," said Tomkins, "that being a gentleman of such grave and goodly presence, he
should be such a malignant cavalier, and that he should, like the rest of that generation of
vipers, have clothed himself with curses as with a garment."

"Which is as much as to say, the tough old knight hath a habit of swearing," said the keeper,
grinning at a pun, which has been repeated since his time; "but who can help it? it comes of
use and wont. Were you now, in your bodily self, to light suddenly on a Maypole, with all the
blithe morris-dancers prancing around it to the merry pipe and tabor, with bells jingling,
ribands fluttering, lads frisking and laughing, lasses leaping till you might see where the
scarlet garter fastened the light blue hose, I think some feeling, resembling either natural
sociality, or old use and wont, would get the better, friend, even of thy gravity, and thou
wouldst fling thy cuckoldy steeple-hat one way, and that blood-thirsty long sword another,
and trip, like the noodles of Hogs-Norton, when the pigs play on the organ."

The Independent turned fiercely round on the keeper, and replied, "How now, Mr. Green Jerkin?
what language is this to one whose hand is at the plough? I advise thee to put curb on thy
tongue, lest thy ribs pay the forfeit."

"Nay, do not take the high tone with me, brother" answered Joceline; "remember thou hast not
the old knight of sixty-five to deal with, but a fellow as bitter and prompt as thyself--it
may be a little more so-- younger, at all events--and prithee, why shouldst thou take such
umbrage at a Maypole? I would thou hadst known one Phil Hazeldine of these parts--He was the
best morris-dancer betwixt Oxford and Burford."

"The more shame to him," answered the Independent; "and I trust he has seen the error of his
ways, and made himself (as, if a man of action, he easily might) fit for better company than
wood-hunters, deer-stealers, Maid Marions, swash-bucklers, deboshed revellers, bloody brawlers,
maskers, and mummers, lewd men and light women, fools and fiddlers, and carnal self-pleasers
of every description."

"Well," replied the keeper, "you are out of breath in time; for here we stand before the famous
Maypole of Woodstock."

They paused in an open space of meadow-land, beautifully skirted by large oaks and sycamores,
one of which, as king of the forest, stood a little detached from the rest, as if scorning
the vicinity of any rival. It was scathed and gnarled in the branches, but the immense trunk
still showed to what gigantic size the monarch of the forest can attain in the groves of merry
England.

"That is called the King's Oak," said Joceline; "the oldest men of Woodstock know not how old
it is; they say Henry used to sit under it with fair Rosamond, and see the lasses dance, and
the lads of the village run races, and wrestle for belts or bonnets."

"I nothing doubt it, friend," said Tomkins; "a tyrant and a harlot were fitting patron and
patroness for such vanities."

"Thou mayst say thy say, friend," replied the keeper, "so thou lettest me say mine. There stands
the Maypole, as thou seest, half a flight-shot from the King's Oak, in the midst of the meadow.
The King gave ten shillings from the customs of Woodstock to make a new one yearly, besides
a tree fitted for the purpose out of the forest. Now it is warped, and withered, and twisted,
like a wasted brier-rod. The green, too, used to be close-shaved, and rolled till it was smooth
as a velvet mantle--now it is rough and overgrown."

"Well, well, friend Joceline," said the Independent, "but where was the edification of all
this?--what use of doctrine could be derived from a pipe and tabor? or was there ever aught
like wisdom in a bagpipe?"

"You may ask better scholars that," said Joceline; "but methinks men cannot be always grave,
and with the hat over their brow. A young maiden will laugh as a tender flower will blow--ay,
and a lad will like her the better for it; just as the same blithe Spring that makes the young
birds whistle, bids the blithe fawns skip. There have come worse days since the jolly old times
have gone by:--I tell thee, that in the holydays which you, Mr. Longsword, have put down, I
have seen this greensward alive with merry maidens and manly fellows. The good old rector himself
thought it was no sin to come for a while and look on, and his goodly cassock and scarf kept
us all in good order, and taught us to limit our mirth within the bounds of discretion. We
might, it may be, crack a broad jest, or pledge a friendly cup a turn too often, but it was
in mirth and good neighbour-hood--Ay, and if there was a bout at single-stick, or a bellyful
of boxing, it was all for love and kindness; and better a few dry blows in drink, than the
bloody doings we have had in sober earnest, since the presbyter's cap got above the bishop's
mitre, and we exchanged our goodly rectors and learned doctors, whose sermons were all bolstered
up with as much Greek and Latin as might have confounded the devil himself, for weavers and
cobblers, and such other pulpit volunteers, as--as we heard this morning--It will out."

"Well, friend," said the Independent, with patience scarcely to have been expected, "I quarrel
not with thee for nauseating my doctrine. If thine ear is so much tickled with tabor tunes
and morris tripping, truly it is not likely thou shouldst find pleasant savour in more wholesome
and sober food. But let us to the Lodge, that we may go about our business there before the
sun sets."

"Troth, and that may be advisable for more reasons than one," said the keeper; "for there have
been tales about the Lodge which have made men afeard to harbour there after nightfall."

"Were not yon old knight, and yonder damsel his daughter, wont to dwell there?" said the Independent.
"My information said so."

"Ay, truly did they," said Joceline; "and while they kept a jolly house-hold, all went well
enough; for nothing banishes fear like good ale. But after the best of our men went to the
wars, and were slain at Naseby fight, they who were left found the Lodge more lonesome, and
the old knight has been much deserted of his servants:--marry, it might be, that he has lacked
silver of late to pay groom and lackey."

"A potential reason for the diminution of a household," said the soldier.

"Right, sir, even so," replied the keeper. "They spoke of steps in the great gallery, heard
by dead of the night, and voices that whispered at noon, in the matted chambers; and the servants
pretended that these things scared them away; but, in my poor judgment, when Martinmas and
Whitsuntide came round without a penny-fee, the old blue-bottles of serving-men began to think
of creeping elsewhere before the frost chilled them.--No devil so frightful as that which dances
in the pocket where there is no cross to keep him out."

"You were reduced, then, to a petty household?" said the Independent.

"Ay, marry, were we," said Joceline; "but we kept some half-score together, what with blue-bottles
in the Lodge, what with green caterpillars of the chase, like him who is yours to command;
we stuck together till we found a call to take a morning's ride somewhere or other."

"To the town of Worcester," said the soldier, "where you were crushed like vermin and palmer
worms, as you are."

"You may say your pleasure," replied the keeper; "I'll never contradict a man who has got my
head under his belt. Our backs are at the wall, or you would not be here."

"Nay, friend," said the Independent, "thou riskest nothing by thy freedom and trust in me.
I can be bon camarado to a good soldier, although I have striven with him even to the going
down of the sun.--But here we are in front of the Lodge."

They stood accordingly in front of the old Gothic building, irregularly constructed, and at
different times, as the humour of the English monarchs led them to taste the pleasures of Woodstock
Chase, and to make such improvements for their own accommodation as the increasing luxury of
each age required. The oldest part of the structure had been named by tradition Fair Rosamond's
Tower; it was a small turret of great height, with narrow windows, and walls of massive thickness.
The Tower had no opening to the ground, or means of descending, a great part of the lower portion
being solid mason-work. It was traditionally said to have been accessible only by a sort of
small drawbridge, which might be dropped at pleasure from a little portal near the summit of
the turret, to the battlements of another tower of the same construction, but twenty feet lower,
and containing only a winding staircase, called in Woodstock Love's Ladder; because it is said,
that by ascending this staircase to the top of the tower, and then making use of the drawbridge,
Henry obtained access to the chamber of his paramour.

This tradition had been keenly impugned by Dr. Rochecliffe, the former rector of Woodstock,
who insisted, that what was called Rosamond's Tower, was merely an interior keep, or citadel,
to which the lord or warden of the castle might retreat, when other points of safety failed
him; and either protract his defence, or, at the worst, stipulate for reasonable terms of surrender.
The people of Woodstock, jealous of their ancient traditions, did not relish this new mode
of explaining them away; and it is even said, that the Mayor, whom we have already introduced,
became Presbyterian, in revenge of the doubts cast by the rector upon this important subject,
rather choosing to give up the Liturgy than his fixed belief in Rosamond's Tower, and Love's
Ladder.

The rest of the Lodge was of considerable extent, and of different ages; comprehending a nest
of little courts, surrounded by buildings which corresponded with each other, sometimes within-doors,
sometimes by crossing the courts, and frequently in both ways. The different heights of the
buildings announced that they could only be connected by the usual variety of staircases, which
exercised the limbs of our ancestors in the sixteenth and earlier centuries, and seem sometimes
to have been contrived for no other purpose.

The varied and multiplied fronts of this irregular building were, as Dr. Rochecliffe was wont
to say, an absolute banquet to the architectural antiquary, as they certainly contained specimens
of every style which existed, from the pure Norman of Henry of Anjou, down to the composite,
half Gothic half classical architecture of Elizabeth and her successor. Accordingly, the rector
was himself as much enamoured of Woodstock as ever was Henry of Fair Rosamond; and as his intimacy
with Sir Henry Lee permitted him entrance at all times to the Royal Lodge, he used to spend
whole days in wandering about the antique apartments, examining, measuring, studying, and finding
out excellent reasons for architectural peculiarities, which probably only owed their existence
to the freakish fancy of a Gothic artist. But the old antiquary had been expelled from his
living by the intolerance and troubles of the times, and his successor, Nehemiah Holdenough,
would have considered an elaborate investigation of the profane sculpture and architecture
of blinded and blood-thirsty Papists, together with the history of the dissolute amours of
old Norman monarchs, as little better than a bowing down before the calves of Bethel, and a
drinking of the cup of abominations.--We return to the course of our story.

"There is," said the Independent Tomkins, after he had carefully perused the front of the building,
"many a rare monument of olden wickedness about this miscalled Royal Lodge; verily, I shall
rejoice much to see the same destroyed, yea, burned to ashes, and the ashes thrown into the
brook Kedron, or any other brook, that the land may be cleansed from the memory thereof, neither
remember the iniquity with which their fathers have sinned."

The keeper heard him with secret indignation, and began to consider with himself, whether,
as they stood but one to one, and without chance of speedy interference, he was not called
upon, by his official duty, to castigate the rebel who used language so defamatory. But he
fortunately recollected, that the strife must be a doubtful one--that the advantage of arms
was against him--and that, in especial, even if he should succeed in the combat, it would be
at the risk of severe retaliation. It must be owned, too, that there was something about the
Independent so dark and mysterious, so grim and grave, that the more open spirit of the keeper
felt oppressed, and, if not overawed, at least kept in doubt concerning him; and he thought
it wisest, as well as safest, for his master and himself, to avoid all subjects of dispute,
and know better with whom he was dealing, before he made either friend or enemy of him.

The great gate of the Lodge was strongly bolted, but the wicket opened on Joceline's raising
the latch. There was a short passage of ten feet, which had been formerly closed by a portcullis
at the inner end, while three loopholes opened on either side, through which any daring intruder
might be annoyed, who, having surprised the first gate, must be thus exposed to a severe fire
before he could force the second. But the machinery of the portcullis was damaged, and it now
remained a fixture, brandishing its jaw, well furnished with iron fangs, but incapable of dropping
it across the path of invasion.

The way, therefore, lay open to the great hall or outer vestibule of the Lodge. One end of
this long and dusky apartment was entirely occupied by a gallery, which had in ancient times
served to accommodate the musicians and minstrels. There was a clumsy staircase at either side
of it, composed of entire logs of a foot square; and in each angle of the ascent was placed,
by way of sentinel, the figure of a Norman foot-soldier, having an open casque on his head,
which displayed features as stern as the painter's genius could devise. Their arms were buff-jackets,
or shirts of mail, round bucklers, with spikes in the centre, and buskins which adorned and
defended the feet and ankles, but left the knees bare. These wooden warders held great swords,
or maces, in their hands, like military guards on duty. Many an empty hook and brace, along
the walls of the gloomy apartment, marked the spots from which arms, long preserved as trophies,
had been, in the pressure of the wars, once more taken down, to do service in the field, like
veterans whom extremity of danger recalls to battle. On other rusty fastenings were still displayed
the hunting trophies of the monarchs to whom the Lodge belonged, and of the silvan knights
to whose care it had been from time to time confided.

At the nether end of the hall, a huge, heavy, stone-wrought chimney-piece projected itself
ten feet from the wall, adorned with many a cipher, and many a scutcheon of the Royal House
of England. In its present state, it yawned like the arched mouth of a funeral vault, or perhaps
might be compared to the crater of an extinguished volcano. But the sable complexion of the
massive stone-work, and all around it, showed that the time had been when it sent its huge
fires blazing up the huge chimney, besides puffing many a volume of smoke over the heads of
the jovial guests, whose royalty or nobility did not render them sensitive enough to quarrel
with such slight inconvenience. On these occasions, it was the tradition of the house, that
two cart-loads of wood was the regular allowance for the fire between noon and curfew, and
the andirons, or dogs, as they were termed, constructed for retaining the blazing firewood
on the hearth, were wrought in the shape of lions of such gigantic size as might well warrant
the legend. There were long seats of stone within the chimney, where, in despite of the tremendous
heat, monarchs were sometimes said to have taken their station, and amused themselves with
broiling the umbles, or dowsels, of the deer, upon the glowing embers, with their own royal
hands, when happy the courtier who was invited to taste the royal cookery. Tradition was here
also ready with her record, to show what merry gibes, such as might be exchanged between prince
and peer, had flown about at the jolly banquet which followed the Michaelmas hunt. She could
tell, too, exactly, where King Stephen sat when he darned his own princely hose, and knew most
of the odd tricks he had put upon little Winkin, the tailor of Woodstock.

Most of this rude revelry belonged to the Plantagenet times. When the house of Tudor ascended
to the throne, they were more chary of their royal presence, and feasted in halls and chambers
far within, abandoning the outmost hall to the yeomen of the guard, who mounted their watch
there, and passed away the night with wassail and mirth, exchanged sometimes for frightful
tales of apparitions and sorceries, which made some of those grow pale, in whose ears the trumpet
of a French foeman would have sounded as jollily as a summons to the woodland chase.

Joceline pointed out the peculiarities of the place to his gloomy companion more briefly than
we have detailed them to the reader. The Independent seemed to listen with some interest at
first, but, flinging it suddenly aside, he said in a solemn tone, "Perish, Babylon, as thy
master Nebuchadnezzar hath perished! He is a wanderer, and thou shalt be a waste place--yea,
and a wilderness--yea, a desert of salt, in which there shall be thirst and famine."

"There is like to be enough of both to-night," said Joceline, "unless the good knight's larder
be somewhat fuller than it is wont."

"We must care for the creature-comforts," said the Independent, "but in due season, when our
duties are done. Whither lead these entrances?"

"That to the right," replied the keeper, "leads to what are called, the state-apartments, not
used since the year sixteen hundred and thirty-nine, when his blessed Majesty"--

"How, sir!" interrupted the Independent, in a voice of thunder, "dost thou speak of Charles
Stewart as blessing, or blessed?--beware the proclamation to that effect."

"I meant no harm," answered the keeper, suppressing his disposition to make a harsher reply.
"My business is with bolts and bucks, not with titles and state affairs. But yet, whatever
may have happed since, that poor King was followed with blessings enough from Woodstock, for
he left a glove full of broad pieces for the poor of the place"--

"Peace, friend," said the Independent; "I will think thee else one of those besotted and blinded
Papists, who hold, that bestowing of alms is an atonement and washing away of the wrongs and
oppressions which have been wrought by the almsgiver. Thou sayest, then, these were the apartments
of Charles Stewart?"

"And of his father, James, before him, and Elizabeth, before him, and bluff King Henry, who
builded that wing, before them all."

"And there, I suppose, the knight and his daughter dwelt?"

"No," replied Joceline; "Sir Henry Lee had too much reverence for--for things which are now
thought worth no reverence at all--Besides, the state-rooms are unaired, and in indifferent
order, since of late years. The Knight Ranger's apartment lies by that passage to the left."

"And whither goes yonder stair, which seems both to lead upwards and downwards?"

"Upwards," replied the keeper, "it leads to many apartments, used for various purposes, of
sleeping, and other accommodation. Downwards, to the kitchen, offices, and vaults of the castle,
which, at this time of the evening, you cannot see without lights."

"We will to the apartments of your knight, then," said the Independent. "Is there fitting accommodation
there?"

"Such as has served a person of condition, whose lodging is now worse appointed," answered
the honest keeper, his bile rising so fast that he added, in a muttering and inaudible tone,
"so it may well serve a crop-eared knave like thee."

He acted as the usher, however, and led on towards the ranger's apartments.

This suite opened by a short passage from the hall, secured at time of need by two oaken doors,
which could be fastened by large bars of the same, that were drawn out of the wall, and entered
into square holes, contrived for their reception on the other side of the portal. At the end
of this passage, a small ante-room received them, into which opened the sitting apartment of
the good knight--which, in the style of the time, might have been termed a fair summer parlour--lighted
by two oriel windows, so placed as to command each of them a separate avenue, leading distant
and deep into the forest. The principal ornament of the apartment, besides two or three family
portraits of less interest, was a tall full-length picture, that hung above the chimney-piece,
which, like that in the hall, was of heavy stone-work, ornamented with carved scutcheons, emblazoned
with various devices. The portrait was that of a man about fifty years of age, in complete
plate armour, and painted in the harsh and dry manner of Holbein--probably, indeed, the work
of that artist, as the dates corresponded. The formal and marked angles, points and projections
of the armour, were a good subject for the harsh pencil of that early school. The face of the
knight was, from the fading of the colours, pale and dim, like that of some being from the
other world, yet the lines expressed forcibly pride and exultation.

He pointed with his leading-staff, or truncheon, to the background, where, in such perspective
as the artist possessed, were depicted the remains of a burning church, or monastery, and four
or five soldiers, in red cassocks, bearing away in triumph what seemed a brazen font or laver.
Above their heads might be traced in scroll, "Lee Victor sic voluit." Right opposite to the
picture, hung, in a niche in the wall, a complete set of tilting armour, the black and gold
colours, and ornaments of which exactly corresponded with those exhibited in the portrait.

The picture was one of those which, from something marked in the features and expression, attract
the observation even of those who are ignorant of art. The Independent looked at it until a
smile passed transiently over his clouded brow. Whether he smiled to see the grim old cavalier
employed in desecrating a religious house--(an occupation much conforming to the practice of
his own sect)--whether he smiled in contempt of the old painter's harsh and dry mode of working--or
whether the sight of this remarkable portrait revived some other ideas, the under-keeper could
not decide.

The smile passed away in an instant, as the soldier looked to the oriel windows. The recesses
within them were raised a step or two from the wall. In one was placed a walnut-tree reading-desk,
and a huge stuffed arm-chair, covered with Spanish leather. A little cabinet stood beside,
with some of its shuttles and drawers open, displaying hawks-bells, dog-whistles, instruments
for trimming falcons' feathers, bridle-bits of various constructions, and other trifles connected
with silvan sport.

The other little recess was differently furnished. There lay some articles of needle-work on
a small table, besides a lute, with a book having some airs written down in it, and a frame
for working embroidery. Some tapestry was displayed around the recess, with more attention
to ornament than was visible in the rest of the apartment; the arrangement of a few bow-pots,
with such flowers as the fading season afforded, showed also the superintendence of female taste.

Tomkins cast an eye of careless regard upon these subjects of female occupation, then stepped
into the farther window, and began to turn the leaves of a folio, which lay open on the reading-desk,
apparently with some interest. Joceline, who had determined to watch his motions without interfering
with them, was standing at some distance in dejected silence, when a door behind the tapestry
suddenly opened, and a pretty village maid tripped out with a napkin in her hand, as if she
had been about some household duty.

"How now, Sir Impudence?" she said to Joceline in a smart tone; "what do you here prowling
about the apartments when the master is not at home?"

But instead of the answer which perhaps she expected, Joceline Joliffe cast a mournful glance
towards the soldier in the oriel window, as if to make what he said fully intelligible, and
replied with a dejected appearance and voice, "Alack, my pretty Phoebe, there come those here
that have more right or might than any of us, and will use little ceremony in coming when they
will, and staying while they please."

He darted another glance at Tomkins, who still seemed busy with the book before him, then sidled
close to the astonished girl, who had continued looking alternately at the keeper and at the
stranger, as if she had been unable to understand the words of the first, or to comprehend
the meaning of the second being present.

"Go," whispered Joliffe, approaching his mouth so near her cheek, that his breath waved the
curls of her hair; "go, my dearest Phoebe, trip it as fast as a fawn down to my lodge--I will
soon be there, and"--

"Your lodge, indeed" said Phoebe; "you are very bold, for a poor kill-buck that never frightened
any thing before save a dun deer--Your lodge, indeed!--I am like to go there, I think." "Hush,
hush! Phoebe-- here is no time for jesting. Down to my hut, I say, like a deer, for the knight
and Mrs. Alice are both there, and I fear will not return hither again.--All's naught, girl--and
our evil days are come at last with a vengeance--we are fairly at bay and fairly hunted down."

"Can this be, Joceline?" said the poor girl, turning to the keeper with an expression of fright
in her countenance, which she had hitherto averted in rural coquetry.

"As sure, my dearest Phoebe, as"--

The rest of the asseveration was lost in Phoebe's ear, so closely did the keeper's lips approach
it; and if they approached so very near as to touch her cheek, grief, like impatience, hath
its privileges, and poor Phoebe had enough of serious alarm to prevent her from demurring upon
such a trifle.

But no trifle was the approach of Joceline's lips to Phoebe's pretty though sunburnt cheek,
in the estimation of the Independent, who, a little before the object of Joceline's vigilance,
had been more lately in his turn the observer of the keeper's demeanour, so soon as the interview
betwixt Phoebe and him had become so interesting. And when he remarked the closeness of Joceline's
argument, he raised his voice to a pitch of harshness that would have rivalled that of an ungreased
and rusty saw, and which at once made Joceline and Phoebe spring six feet apart, each in contrary
directions, and if Cupid was of the party, must have sent him out at the window like it wild
duck flying from a culverin. Instantly throwing himself into the attitude of a preacher and
a reprover of vice, "How now!" he exclaimed, "shameless and impudent as you are!--What--chambering
and wantoning in our very presence!--How-- would you play your pranks before the steward of
the Commissioners of the High Court of Parliament, as ye would in a booth at the fulsome fair,
or amidst the trappings and tracings of a profane dancing-school, where the scoundrel minstrels
make their ungodly weapons to squeak, 'Kiss and be kind, the fiddler's blind?'--But here,"
he said, dealing a perilous thump upon the volume--"Here is the King and high priest of those
vices and follies!--Here is he, whom men of folly profanely call nature's miracle!--Here is
he, whom princes chose for their cabinet-keeper, and whom maids of honour take for their bed-fellow!--
Here is the prime teacher of fine words, foppery and folly--Here!"-- (dealing another thump
upon the volume--and oh! revered of the Roxburghe, it was the first folio--beloved of the Bannatyne,
it was Hemmings and Condel--it was the editio princeps)--"On thee," he continued--"on thee,
William Shakspeare, I charge whate'er of such lawless idleness and immodest folly hath defiled
the land since thy day!"

"By the mass, a heavy accusation," said Joceline, the bold recklessness of whose temper could
not be long overawed; "Odds pitlikins, is our master's old favourite, Will of Stratford, to
answer for every buss that has been snatched since James's time?--a perilous reckoning truly--but
I wonder who is sponsible for what lads and lasses did before his day?" "Scoff not," said the
soldier, "lest I, being called thereto by the voice within me, do deal with thee as a scorner.
Verily, I say, that since the devil fell from Heaven, he never lacked agents on earth; yet
nowhere hath he met with a wizard having such infinite power over men's souls as this pestilent
fellow Shakspeare. Seeks a wife a foul example for adultery, here she shall find it--Would
a man know how to train his fellow to be a murderer, here shall he find tutoring--Would a lady
marry a heathen negro, she shall have chronicled example for it--Would any one scorn at his
Maker, he shall be furnished with a jest in this book-- Would he defy his brother in the flesh,
he shall be accommodated with a challenge--Would you be drunk, Shakspeare will cheer you with
a cup-- Would you plunge in sensual pleasures, he will soothe you to indulgence, as with the
lascivious sounds of a lute. This, I say, this book is the well-head and source of all those
evils which have overrun the land like a torrent, making men scoffers, doubters, deniers, murderers,
makebates, and lovers of the wine-pot, haunting unclean places, and sitting long at the evening-wine.
Away with him, away with him, men of England! to Tophet with his wicked book, and to the Vale
of Hinnom with his accursed bones! Verily but that our march was hasty when we passed Stratford,
in the year 1643, with Sir William Waller; but that our march was hasty"--

"Because Prince Rupert was after you with his cavaliers," muttered the incorrigible Joceline.

"I say," continued the zealous trooper, raising his voice and extending his arm--"but that
our march was by command hasty, and that we turned not aside in our riding, closing our ranks
each one upon the other as becomes men of war, I had torn on that day the bones of that preceptor
of vice and debauchery from the grave, and given them to the next dunghill. I would have made
his memory a scoff and a hissing!"

"That is the bitterest thing he has said yet," observed the keeper. "Poor Will would have liked
the hissing worse than all the rest." "Will the gentleman say any more?" enquired Phoebe in
a whisper. "Lack-a-day, he talks brave words, if one knew but what they meant. But it is a
mercy our good knight did not see him ruffle the book at that rate--Mercy on us, there would
certainly have been bloodshed.--But oh, the father--see how he is twisting his face about!--Is
he ill of the colic, think'st thou, Joceline? Or, may I offer him a glass of strong waters?"

"Hark thee hither, wench!" said the keeper, "he is but loading his blunderbuss for another
volley; and while he turns up his eyes, and twists about his face, and clenches his fist, and
shuffles and tramples with his feet in that fashion, he is bound to take no notice of any thing.
I would be sworn to cut his purse, if he had one, from his side, without his feeling it."

"La! Joceline," said Phoebe, "and if he abides here in this turn of times, I dare say the gentleman
will be easily served."

"Care not thou about that," said Joliffe; "but tell me softly and hastily, what is in the pantry?"

"Small housekeeping enough," said Phoebe; "a cold capon and some comfits, and the great standing
venison pasty, with plenty of spice--a manchet or two besides, and that is all."

"Well, it will serve for a pinch--wrap thy cloak round thy comely body--get a basket and a
brace of trenchers and towels, they are heinously impoverished down yonder--carry down the
capon and the manchets--the pasty must abide with this same soldier and me, and the pie-crust
will serve us for bread."

"Rarely," said Phoebe; "I made the paste myself--it is as thick as the walls of Fair Rosamond's
Tower."

"Which two pairs of jaws would be long in gnawing through, work hard as they might," said the
keeper. "But what liquor is there?"

"Only a bottle of Alicant, and one of sack, with the stone jug of strong waters," answered Phoebe.

"Put the wine-flasks into thy basket," said Joceline, "the knight must not lack his evening
draught--and down with thee to the hut like a lapwing. There is enough for supper, and to-morrow
is a new day.--Ha! by heaven I thought yonder man's eye watched us--No--he only rolled it round
him in a brown study--Deep enough doubtless, as they all are.--But d--n him, he must be bottomless
if I cannot sound him before the night's out.--Hie thee away, Phoebe."

But Phoebe was a rural coquette, and, aware that Joceline's situation gave him no advantage
of avenging the challenge in a fitting way, she whispered in his ear, "Do you think our knight's
friend, Shakspeare, really found out all these naughty devices the gentleman spoke of?"

Off she darted while she spoke, while Joliffe menaced future vengeance with his finger, as
he muttered, "Go thy way, Phoebe Mayflower, the lightest-footed and lightest-hearted wench
that ever tripped the sod in Woodstock-park!--After her, Bevis, and bring her safe to our master
at the hut."

The large greyhound arose like a human servitor who had received an order, and followed Phoebe
through the hall, first licking her hand to make her sensible of his presence, and then putting
himself to a slow trot, so as best to accommodate himself to the light pace of her whom he
convoyed, whom Joceline had not extolled for her activity without due reason. While Phoebe
and her guardian thread the forest glades, we return to the Lodge.

The Independent now seemed to start as if from a reverie. "Is the young woman gone?" said he.

"Ay, marry is she," said the keeper; "and if your worship hath farther commands, you must rest
contented with male attendance."

"Commands--umph--I think the damsel might have tarried for another exhortation," said the soldier--"truly,
I profess my mind was much inclined toward her for her edification."

"Oh, sir," replied Joliffe, "she will be at church next Sunday, and if your military reverence
is pleased again to hold forth amongst us, she will have use of the doctrine with the rest.
But young maidens of these parts hear no private homilies.--And what is now your pleasure?
Will you look at the other rooms, and at the few plate articles which have been left?"

"Umph--no," said the Independent--"it wears late, and gets dark--thou hast the means of giving
us beds, friend?"

"Better you never slept in," replied the keeper.

"And wood for a fire, and a light, and some small pittance of creature-comforts for refreshment
of the outward man?" continued the soldier.

"Without doubt," replied the keeper, displaying a prudent anxiety to gratify this important
personage.

In a few minutes a great standing candlestick was placed on an oaken table. The mighty venison
pasty, adorned with parsley, was placed on the board on a clean napkin; the stone-bottle of
strong waters, with a blackjack full of ale, formed comfortable appendages; and to this meal
sate down in social manner the soldier, occupying a great elbow-chair, and the keeper, at his
invitation, using the more lowly accommodation of a stool, at the opposite side of the table.
Thus agreeably employed, our history leaves them for the present.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER THE FOURTH.

  Yon path of greensward
  Winds round by sparry grot and gay pavilion;
  There is no flint to gall thy tender foot,
  There's ready shelter from each breeze, or shower.--
  But duty guides not that way--see her stand,
  With wand entwined with amaranth, near yon cliffs.
  Oft where she leads thy blood must mark thy footsteps,
  Oft where she leads thy head must bear the storm.
  And thy shrunk form endure heat, cold, and hunger;
  But she will guide thee up to noble heights,
  Which he who gains seems native of the sky,
  While earthly things lie stretch'd beneath his feet,
  Diminish'd, shrunk, and valueless--
                            ANONYMOUS.

The reader cannot have forgotten that after his scuffle with the commonwealth soldier, Sir
Henry Lee, with his daughter Alice, had departed to take refuge in the hut of the stout keeper
Joceline Joliffe. They walked slow, as before, for the old knight was at once oppressed by
perceiving these last vestiges of royalty fall into the hands of republicans, and by the recollection
of his recent defeat. At times he paused, and, with his arms folded on his bosom, recalled
all the circumstances attending his expulsion from a house so long his home. It seemed to him
that, like the champions of romance of whom he had sometimes read, he himself was retiring
from the post which it was his duty to guard, defeated by a Paynim knight, for whom the adventure
had been reserved by fate. Alice had her own painful subjects of recollection, nor had the
tenor of her last conversation with her father been so pleasant as to make her anxious to renew
it until his temper should be more composed; for with an excellent disposition, and much love
to his daughter, age and misfortunes, which of late came thicker and thicker, had given to
the good knight's passions a wayward irritability unknown to his better days. His daughter,
and one or two attached servants, who still followed his decayed fortunes, soothed his frailty
as much as possible, and pitied him even while they suffered under its effects.

It was a long time ere he spoke, and then he referred to an incident already noticed. "It is
strange," he said, "that Bevis should have followed Joceline and that fellow rather than me."

"Assure yourself, sir," replied Alice, "that his sagacity saw in this man a stranger, whom
he thought himself obliged to watch circumspectly, and therefore he remained with Joceline."

"Not so, Alice," answered Sir Henry; "he leaves me because my fortunes have fled from me. There
is a feeling in nature, affecting even the instinct, as it is called, of dumb animals, which
teaches them to fly from misfortune. The very deer there will butt a sick or wounded buck from
the herd; hurt a dog, and the whole kennel will fall on him and worry him; fishes devour their
own kind when they are wounded with a spear; cut a crow's wing, or break its leg, the others
will buffet it to death."

"That may be true of the more irrational kinds of animals among each other," said Alice, "for
their whole life is well nigh a warfare; but the dog leaves his own race to attach himself
to ours; forsakes, for his master, the company, food, and pleasure of his own kind; and surely
the fidelity of such a devoted and voluntary servant as Bevis hath been in particular, ought
not to be lightly suspected."

"I am not angry with the dog, Alice; I am only sorry," replied her father. "I have read, in
faithful chronicles, that when Richard II. and Henry of Bolingbroke were at Berkeley Castle,
a dog of the same kind deserted the King, whom he had always attended upon, and attached himself
to Henry, whom he then saw for the first time. Richard foretold, from the desertion of his
favourite, his approaching deposition. The dog was afterwards kept at Woodstock, and Bevis
is said to be of his breed, which was heedfully kept up. What I might foretell of mischief
from his desertion, I cannot guess, but my mind assures me it bodes no good."

There was a distant rustling among the withered leaves, a bouncing or galloping sound on the
path, and the favourite dog instantly joined his master.

"Come into court, old knave," said Alice, cheerfully, "and defend thy character, which is wellnigh
endangered by this absence." But the dog only paid her courtesy by gamboling around them, and
instantly plunged back again, as fast as he could scamper.

