ASHER'S COLLECTION

OF

ENGLISH AUTHORS.

BRITISH AND AMERICAN.

COPYRIGHT EDITION.

VOL. 72.

MILLY DARRELL AND OTHER STORIES

BY M. E. BRADDON.

IN ONE VOLUME.

PARIS

EMILE GALETTE, 12, RUE BONAPARTE.

1873.

This Edition

is Copyright for Foreign Circulation only.

IN ONE VOLUME.

ASHER'S EDITION

BY THE SAME AUTHOR:

ROBERT AINSLEIGH -- 3 VOL.

TO THE BITTER END -- 3 VOL.

MILLY DARRELL

AND OTHER TALES.

BY

M. E. BRADDON

AUTHOR OF "LADY AUDLEY'S SECRET," "ROBERT AINSLEIGH," ETC.

COPYRIGHT EDITION.

BERLIN

A. ASHER & CO., PUBLISHERS,

1873.

TO

DR. AND MRS. BEAMAN,

THE AUTHOR'S OLD AND VALUED FRIENDS,

THIS BOOK

IS AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED.

CONTENTS.

MILLY DARRELL -- PAGE 1

OLD RUDDERFORD HALL -- PAGE 179

THE SPLENDID STRANGER -- PAGE 235

MILLY DARRELL

CHAPTER I.

I BEGIN LIFE.

I was just nineteen years of age when I began my career as articled pupil with the Miss Bagshots
of Albury Lodge, Fendale, Yorkshire. My father was a country curate, with a delicate wife and
four children, of whom I was the eldest; and I had known from my childhood that the day must
come in which I should have to get my own living in almost the only vocation open to a poor
gentleman's daughter. I had been fairly educated near home, and the first opportunity that
arose for placing me out in the world had been gladly seized upon by my poor father, who consented
to pay the modest premium required by the Miss Bagshots, in order that I might be taught the
duties of a governess, and essay my powers of tuition upon the younger pupils at Albury Lodge.

How well I remember the evening of my arrival!--a bleak dreary evening at the close of January,
made still more dismal by a drizzling rain that had never ceased falling since I left my father's
snug little house at Briarwood in Warwickshire. I had had to change trains three times, and
to wait during a blank and miserable hour and a quarter, or so, at small obscure stations,
staring hopelessly at the advertisements on the walls--advertisements of somebody's life-sustaining
cocoa, and somebody else's health- restoring cod-liver oil, or trying to read the big brown-backed
Bible in the cheerless little waiting-room; and trying, O so hard, not to think of home, and
all the love and happiness I had left behind me. The journey had been altogether tiresome and
fatiguing; but, for all that, the knowledge that I was near my destination brought me no sense
of pleasure. I think I should have wished that dismal journey prolonged indefinitely, if I
could thereby have escaped the beginning of my new life.

A lumbering omnibus conveyed me from the station to Albury Lodge, after depositing a grim-looking
elderly lady at a house on the outskirts of the town, and a dapper-looking little man, whom
I took for a commercial traveller, at an inn in the market-place. I watched the road with a
kind of idle curiosity as the vehicle lumbered along. The town had a cheerful prosperous air
even on this wet winter night, and I saw that there were two fine old churches, and a large
modern building which I supposed to be the town-hall.

We left the town quite behind us before we came to Albury Lodge; a very large house on the
high-road, a square red-brick house of the early Georgian era, shut in from the road by high
walls. The great wrought-iron gates in the front had been boarded up, and Albury Lodge was
now approached by a little wooden side-door into a stone- flagged covered passage that led
to a small door at the end of the house. The omnibus-driver deposited me at this door, with
all my worldly possessions, which at this period of my life consisted of two rather small boxes
and a japanned dressing-case, a receptacle that contained all my most sacred treasures.

I was admitted by a rather ill-tempered-looking housemaid, with a cap of obtrusive respectability
and a spotless white apron. I fancied that she looked just a little superciliously at my boxes,
which I daresay would not have contained her own wardrobe.

'O, it's the governess-pupil, I suppose?' she said. 'You was expected early this afternoon,
miss. Miss Bagshot and Miss Susan are gone out to tea; but I can show you where you are to
sleep, if you'll please to step this way. Do you think you could carry one of your trunks,
if I carry the other?'

I thought I could; so the housemaid and I lugged them all the way along the stone passage and
up an uncarpeted back staircase which led from the lobby into which the door at the end of
the passage opened. We went very high up, to the top story in fact, where the housemaid led
me into a long bare room with ten little beds in it. I was well enough accustomed to the dreariness
of a school dormitory, but somehow this room looked unusually dismal.

There was a jet of gas burning at one end of the room, near a door opening into a lavatory
which was little more than a cupboard, but in which ten young ladies had to perform their daily
ablutions. Here I washed my face and hands in icy-cold water, and arranged my hair as well
as I could without the aid of a looking-glass, that being a luxury not provided at Albury Lodge.
The servant stood watching me as I made this brief toilet, waiting to conduct me to the schoolroom.
I followed her, shivering as I went, to a great empty room on the first floor. The holidays
were not quite over, and none of the pupils had as yet returned. There was an almost painful
neatness and bareness in place of the usual litter of books and papers, and I could not help
thinking that an apartment in a workhouse would have looked quite as cheerful. Even the fire
behind the high wire guard seemed to burn in a different manner from all home fires: a fact
which I attributed then to some sympathetic property in the coal, but which I afterwards found
to be caused by a plentiful admixture of coke; a slow sulky smoke went up from the dull mass
of fuel, brightened ever so little now and then by a sickly yellow flame. One jet of gas dimly
lighted this long dreary room, in which there was no human creature but myself and my guide.

'I'll bring you some supper presently, miss,' the housemaid said, and departed before I could
put in a timid plea for that feminine luxury, a cup of tea.

I had not expected to find myself quite alone on this first night of my arrival, and a feeling
of hopeless wretchedness came over me as I sat down at one end of a long green-baize-covered
table, and rested my head upon my folded arms. Of course it was very weak and foolish, a bad
beginning of my new life, but I was quite powerless to contend against that sense of utter
misery. I thought of all I had left at home. I thought of what my life might have been if my
father had been only a little better off: and then I burst out crying as if my heart were breaking.

Suddenly, in the midst of that foolish paroxysm, I felt a light hand upon my shoulder, and
looking up, saw a face bending over me, a face full of sympathy and compassion.

O Milly Darrell, my darling, my love, how am I to describe you as you appeared before my eyes
that night? How poorly can any words of mine paint you in your girlish beauty, as you looked
down upon me in that dimly-lighted schoolroom with divine compassion in your dark eloquent eyes!

Just at that moment I was so miserable and so inclined to be sulky in my wretchedness, that
even the vision of that bright face gave me little pleasure. I pushed away the gentle hand
ungraciously, and rose hastily from my seat.

'Pray don't cry any more,' said the young lady; 'I can't bear to hear you cry like that.'

'I'm not going to cry any more,' I answered, drying my eyes in a hasty, angry way. 'It was
very foolish of me to cry at all; but this place did look so cheerless and dreary, and I began
to think of my father and mother, and all I had left behind me at home.'

'Of course it was only natural you should think of them. Everything does seem so bleak and
dismal the first night; but you are very happy to have so many at home. I have only papa.'

'Indeed!' I said, not feeling deeply interested in her affairs.

I looked at her as she stood leaning a little against the end of the table, and playing idly
with a bunch of charms and lockets hanging to her gold chain. She was very handsome, a brunette,
with a small straight nose, hazel eyes, and dark-brown hair. Her mouth was the prettiest and
most expressive I ever saw in my life, and gave an indescribable charm to her face. She was
handsomely dressed in violet silk, with rich white lace about the throat and sleeves.

'You will find things much pleasanter when the girls come back. Of course school is always
a little dreary compared with home; one is prepared for that; but I have no doubt you will
contrive to be happy, and I hope we shall be very good friends. I think you must be the Miss
Crofton I have heard spoken of lately?'

'Yes, my name is Crofton--Mary Crofton.'

'And mine is Emily Darrell. Milly I am always called at home, and by any one who likes me.
I am a parlour-boarder, and have the run of the house, as it were. I am rather old to be at
school, you see; but I am going home at the end of this year. I was brought up at home with
a governess until about six months ago; but then papa took it into his head that I should be
happier amongst girls of my own age, and sent me off to school. He has been travelling since
that time, and so I have not been home for the Christmas holidays. I can't tell you what a
disappointment that was.'

I tried to look sympathetic, and, not knowing exactly what to say, I asked whether Miss Darrell's
father lived in that neighbourhood.

'O dear, no,' she answered; 'he lives nearly a hundred miles away, in a very wild part of Yorkshire,
not far from the sea. But Thornleigh--that is the name for our house--is a dear old place,
and I like our bleak wild country better than the loveliest spot in the world. I was born there,
you see, and all my happy memories of my childhood and my mother are associated with that dear
old home.'

'Is it long since you lost your mother?'

'Ten years. I loved her so dearly. There are some subjects about which one dare not speak.
I cannot often trust myself to talk of her.'

I liked her better after this. At first her beauty and her handsome dress had seemed a little
overpowering to me; I had felt as if she were a being of another order, a bright happy creature
not subject to the common woes of life. We had a concert and a dance, and a dinner style
that gave Baltasar many years later. I did not dare to ask King what he had done in Parsondes.
I did not understand that a man so excellent, that he entertained and regaled guests with elegance
and courtesy that, had been killed or had in hard captivity of my dear teacher.

Finally, one night I plucked up all my restraint and resolve, and told Nanar, on behalf the
King my master, who at the time was going to say where was the virtuoso Parsondes if not want
to lose the kingdom and life. Nanar, instead of answering, he brought the point to all cantatrice
the Bayadere and was in the palace: it is understood that off-campus, harem or whatever you call,
reserved for their wives. The Milita such priestesses moved from nine hundred, and were the
most beautiful and skillful that could hardly be found in all Asia. The girls came dancing, singing
and playing flute, finger cymbals and harps, it was a matter of taste to see them and hear
them. I sat rapt. Nanar he said, and here was the more my amazement:

- Behold the holy Parsondes among these women. Parsondes, come here and greet your former student.

Went
out from the center of that crowd one female, were it not for the
beard, had could be confused with women.

He wore black painted eyebrows, eyelids blue, in order to shine more eyes and cheeks covered
with lipstick. It was all perfumed her dress was almost as rich as the King, his effeminate
and languid gait, his ears hung exquisite earrings, from his throat a necklace of pearls encircled
her forehead a wreath of flowers. It was the same Parsondes, who threw her arms around his neck.

-
I am, I said, well other than he was before. Return, if you want to Susa, but do not say I
live it, that wizards do not be offended, and to continue taking
a recent example of holiness to appeal.

Nanar avenged my rough and unkempt making me a prisoner under and sending me soaping and scrubbing
with a scouring pad. After washing my continued and perfuming twice a day, giving me a hitch, and
forcing me to be with all these bright young ladies, where I ended up forgetting my Zoroaster and
austere preaching, and convinced that in this life time we must have the best possible without
engaging in the lives of others. Care Agenos kill the donkey, and none more so than who mixes
in censoring the vices of others, if only it lacks the opportunity to into them, or when, if they
have not fallen, it must be out of ignorance, bad taste and rustiqueza.

I put my hands on the ears to hear such blasphemy from the mouth of that wise admirable. I was
desperate and angry to see him become a bon vivant, with their points
and collar of shameless rascal, but to avoid scandalous gossip, I
decided to advise the school of wizards to continue arguing that Parsondes
had risen to the empyrean, and to continue venerating his image, without
discovering never before flatly denying that he lived with Parsondes
the dancers of Babylon in the palace of Nanar.

In this awoke from my dream and I turned to find my poor house of this court.

- I think, added our friend to finish his story, with less wealth and less cost can the day Nanar
seduce upbraideth Parsondes that immorality and vices, moved, not
charity, but of envy.

Those who are not sure of the virtue and fortitude of mind must therefore
be more lenient with Nanar.

Woe to him who boasts virtue without one probadísima!

Blessed are those who practice it and shut up!

THE PREHISTORIC BERMEJINO

OR BLUE SALAMANDER

I

I've always been fond of science.

When young, I had a thousand other hobbies, but now I am old, the prevailing scientific hobby
and triumphs in my soul. Unfortunately or Fortunately it happens to me something very singular.
I like science inversely delas truths they are showing exactly. So I just am interested in sciences,
and inaccurate I love. Hence my penchant for philosophy.

It is the truth that appeals to me, but the effort of speech, of subtlety and imagination which
is used to discover the truth, but undetected. Once discovered truth, well proven and patent,
usually leave me cold. Thus, a gallant young man, when you go down the street in pursuit of a
woman whose walk gracefully and whose waist you excited, then come on, the look at his face
and sees that it is old, or one-eyed, or have nosed monkey.

The man would also be a cabinet if he knew the truth, but truth to be pretty. It quiet in their
possession and enjoyment would be silly. Better, then, we know little. What matters is knowing
enough to appear or be discerned the mystery, and never enough for an explanation or clarification.
Thus curiosity is aroused, comes alive fantasy and make up theories, dogmas and other witticisms,
entertain and comfort us during our earthly existence, all of which would lack, being a thousand times
more unhappy pure rude if we were not present the mystery, or if we managed to unravel a pure business
his deep and true meaning.

Among these inexact sciences, which so delight me, there is a very
in vogue now, which is subject my favorite.

I speak of prehistory.

I, not knowing whether I am right, divided into two parts this science. One that I would call
geological prehistory, is based on the discovery of skulls, cops, arrows and spears, stew and
other gadgets, involving scholars who are of an age very remote, called stone. This prehistoric
amuses me so, and has, I see far fewer sets you will hear that call philological prehistory,
based on the study of primitive language and documents written in
them are preserved.

This is the prehistory makes me more grace.

What variety of opinions! What acute guesswork! With what art are arranged and sorted facts to fit
the system that shapes every wise! And all civilization born in Egypt, and the Acadia in the center
of Asia, and comes from India, and a continent called Lemuria, which
sank in the deep sea, the South, between Africa and Asia, and from
another continent, that between Europe and America and was called
Atlantis.

On the primitive language, as well as the primitive civilization, is still disputed. Up it was a dispute
over whether or were several languages: that is, whether the men began to spread around the
world Alal, or say, still speechless, and in flocks, and then were
inventing different languages ​​in different places, or whether they
spoke before the dispersion and all a single language.

My itching to browse induce me to read how many new books come out
on this subject which are not few, and the more wrong-headed they
are, things looks the multitude of the timid, the more I enjoy these
books.

In recent days the books I read are contrary to the Aryans, the Egyptians, of the Semites and other
nations and castes, that went by the civilizing degree superior. If the old books have argued
that civilization, such as sunlight, spread from East to West, these new books claim that spread
in the opposite direction from West to East. All knowledge of the Magi from Iran and from Shinar,
from the Brahmins the banks of the Ganges, the priests of Isis and Osiris, of the initiated
in Samothrace and the towns of Phoenicia and Phrygia, is worth nothing
compared to the knowledge of certain Gauls primitive light whose center
was in a prehistoric Paris.

The Gauls and their bards and druids, poets and priests taught him everything but his own, science
and reflection was not confusing and I remember full of science possessed,
in the center of fertile and beautiful country now called France,
before the coming of the Celts, men more primitive and excellent call
or protoscitas Hyperborean.

But what language they spoke these protoscitas or Hyperborean, the center and focus of civilization
was a Paris of the past six or seven thousand years at least? Spoke the language Euskara,
Basque populace. Where had they come? They had come from Atlantis, which sank. What knowledge
did they have? They had all the knowledge we have today and many more that have been darkened
by of fables and other trifles. Thus, the arimaspes, who had one eye and looked the sky, astronomers
were then, they already knew the telescope, and the arrow that Abaris was riding from one end to
another of the earth, was the balloon or a device to fly and compass
direction, etc.., etc., etc. It is understood that the time of the
arimaspes and the decadence Abaris are Hyperborean civilization.

I confess that I loved this whole system. It is not my purpose to expose here. Step flying on it
and go to my issue.

Say, however, which I loved for two reasons. This is the first how much I like France. How
is natural that the seeds of European civilization was born and flourished from old, in that
fertile and rich garden soil at the privileged, not in Mesopotamia or on the banks of the
Nile?

And the second reason, that I have friends in Gipuzkoa, which shall rejoice much if it is proved
that their language and caste were instrumental that he used to kill Providence barbarism, illuminating
the world and indoctrinate other nations.

Much rejoice at this, if still alive, as I wish, my learned friend
of mine and D. Joaquin Irizar and Moya, who has written remarkable
works on the Basque language, throwing trip the Erros, Larramendis
and Astarloas!

Something he will use the brand-new inventions give more force to your system, arranged so that fit
and fit in with the most perfect Catholic orthodoxy.

Anyway, for me it is clear that before the Celts penetrated into Spain, the Phoenicians, the
Greeks and other nations, was in Spain a civilized people, we call the Iberians. These people spread
across our peninsula, and even had colonies in Sardinia, Italy and elsewhere, as William Humboldt
has shown. Were Basque and spoke the language Euskara. The most cultured nation and state and
illustrious among them was the republic of turdetanos, who, according to the testimony of Strabo,
had laws and cute lyrics and poems in verse, had six thousand years old. However, the alphabets and
Turdetano Celtiberian that reconstructed and publishes Don Luis José Velázquez, are very modern
compared to the date cited above.

These scripts are a reflection of the Phoenician or Greek, and it should be assumed therefore, that
before coming to Spain Greeks and Phoenicians, had turdetanos its own alphabet, which they wrote
their poems and other works.

In my view, Mr. D. Manuel de Gongora y Martinez has had the glory
of discovering the alphabet.

See inscriptions Antiques Osiris in prehistoric Andalucía, de la Cueva of signs and other caves
and hiding places, some of which are near the site of Villabermeja,
a place that I've tried to make famous as its most conspicuous inhabitant
D. Juan Fresco.

Within walking distance there is a site Villabermeja that the Laderon last name, where every
day discovered remains and relics of an ancient and flourishing city.

The learned and sagacious antique D. Aureliano Fernandez War there
was evidence Favència, time of the Roman city that was called much
earlier Vescio.

Don Juan Fresco, excited his curiosity and fueled his tireless activity,
since the Mr. Gongora, publishing in 1868 his Antiquities, put on
the track, has been to seek Cave written signs and other landmarks
that are near Vescio, and has found and assembled in much copy.

Emulate Champollion Figeac, Anquetil Duperron, Burnouf, Grotefend, Oppert and Lassen, my referral D.
Friend Juan Fresco believes he has decoded these primitive scrawl Iberian, such as those other
wise, the hieroglyphs, cuneiform writing and other recesses.

I'm not trying to advocate here by the discovery of my namesake and
countryman and demonstrate the obvious.

This we will do it in your day. I will limit myself to relate a story that Don Juan Fresco says
he read some entries similar to the Cave of the signs. Understood letters, it seems that the other
is flat, because the language is almost primitive Iberian Basque now.

I regret not give here the exact translation of the original text. Don Juan Fresco did not want
communicate it.

I will, therefore, breaks the narrative with explanations and comments interspersed that he has
done. Not otherwise be understood.

The story is relatively modern, for, as my friend, have yet to discover legends and stories in Proto-Iberian,
oldest and most venerable Egyptian poem Pentaur about a feat or Rans
Sesostris II, and that the poems found by our known Mr. Layard diplomat
in the library of Ashurbanipal in Nineveh archaic poems and eight
centuries BC, and translated most of the sacred language of the Akkadians,
then so dead like Latin with us now.

And this should not wonder, because according Roisel at The Atlantis, all culture comes from
these, before been in Chaldea, Assyria, in Egypt or at any point of the East.

It is unfortunate that we still have no documents of the Golden Age
or Golden Age of Atlantic Parisian literature of place some eight
thousand years, or the emanation of that bética culture, implemented
by the banks of the Guadalquivir turdetanos.

The document found, deciphered, explained and commented by Don Juan Fresco is relatively time
fresh, as it were of yesterday morning. Iberian and indigenous culture had declined and Spain were
full of even Phoenician and Greek colonies. Those had already founded Zazinto Sagunto, and
for over a century they founded the Tyre to Malaga, Abdera, Hispalis and Gades. It was for
the years 1000, BC vulgar, on more or less.

II

Vescio was an important city of the Confederation of Turduli.

At the time we mean, the vescianos already had the same quality as the day their descendants have
been dictation bermejinos valid: almost all were blond and some candles. Stood out among all
as fair as well as handsome and dashing, elegant and noble young
man Mutileder.

Sling shot and killed extraordinary ability to planes passing stones flying, riding on horseback,
drove a car like few war, he knew by heart best verses composed turdetanos and also very regular,
with a club in the powerful was a tremendous right hand man, with
women was sweeter than a arropía and more without gall a dove, ran
like a deer, fighting tooth and nail as bears, and had another crowd
of clothes that were recommended.

You can almost ensure that his only fault was being poor.

Mutileder, lost his father and mother, had no urban land and rustic, lived as love staying with
his uncles, and Vescio did not know what used to make a living. Was a man, as they say, without a
job or benefit.

And was bordering on twenty-four, and tired of this life, and longing to see the world, called
blessing to his uncles, who were accompanied by some the money, and also taking weapons and
horse, Vescio left to seek adventure and how to improve the condition.

As Mutileder presence was so beautiful, and it was also nice and happy,
everywhere was very pleasing.

The bells sugetos of fancy and he was invited to dances and parties and the funniest ladies and
haughty eyes put her love, but he was good, prudish and simpleton, and took out anything useful from
this. The money they gave him his uncles was consumed, and no new money came to replace him.

Thus,
stopping in different populations, for example, Igábron, passing then Síngilis today Genil,
entering the land of the turdetanos, and also stopping Ventipo, came to a place of Bastulos
Aratispi was then called, and I suspect he be the Alora of our time, as famous for their games plains.
There was Mutileder a cousin who was a sun of beauty, with eighteen years of age, and fairer than
he, if fits. This premium is called Echeloría. His father, widowed
and very wealthy, the idolized.

Mutileder and Echeloría were pure Iberian breed, without any mixture
of Celts and Phoenicians.

Their families, or better say his family, he was one of them, he boasted, not without reason,
descent from the primitive Atlanteans who had migrated many centuries ago, when sank into the
sea of ​​Atlantis, and, going a long sea, had led Egypt culture, civilization long before the
issue of Osiris, while others, known after the name of Hyperborean,
landing in France, had spread the light and founded flourishing States,
walking to the East to the mountains beyond Rifeas, and influencing,
Finally, in the awakening to political life and cult of the Aryans
and Semites.

In short, Echeloría and Mutileder were two illustrious and worthy
of being on their merits.

Just met, they loved ... What say you loved?

Fall in love to each of the other and the other one.

Echeloría's father, who had nothing to dull, then noticed the girl's love and tried to kill him, because
the cousin had no other assets to his passionate heart; but Echeloría was really in love, and the father,
who at heart was a blessed, agreed and resigned after Mutileder aspired to be his son.

Both lovers swear eternal fidelity. "Rather die than be different,"
she said.

"Before die to be of another, "he said. And this promise was made repeatedly and solemnized and
corroborated with the most terrible oaths.

After this, what remedy was married but as soon as the first boyfriend?

This was resolved the father, and began to make preparations for the wedding, which was verified
in autumn.

It was already late spring, and in those ancient ages likewise happening
now which in the spring following the summer.

Aratispi was the most beautiful place this is Alora. Around there, as there are still fertile,
gardens and lush evergreen forests of orange and lemon, but the hills
that limited amenísimo the valley, rather than being peeled, as now,
were covered with oaks, cork, carob, chestnut and other trees, whose
trunks and whose shade grew heather, ferns, thyme, marjoram, Mastranzo
and other fragrant plants and herbs.

Such was then the generosity of that land, which dwarf palms, now usually covered and more than just
serve to make brooms and esportilla, rose to great heights, while the steep ridges of the mountains,
bald now, were covered with tiara green firs, pines and cypresses.

Nevertheless, it must be confessed that in summer it got so hot in all Aratispi demons.

Echeloría wanted, rightly, take some sea bathing, and her father was a busy port nice, near Malaga,
D. Juan Fresco and I estimate that it must have been Churriana.

Naturally Churriana Mutileder was also accompanying her future.

The cousins ​​were like two lovebirds, always cooing. The more I looked him Echeloría, most
beautiful and angelic and more mellifluous was was put to her.

And the more I looked Mutileder Echeloría to a greater number of perfection and excellence
was in it.

Well, to say nothing, because it would be never ending story, the mutual admiration that arose
both souls when considering the talent or the ability of the object of his love. Each stone Mutileder
pulling killed a bird and broke the heart of Echeloría, by dint of enthusiasm. And Echeloría, meanwhile,
more than charm Mutileder knew the songs sing, had made a serious pita, so full of subtle
and exquisite work, he was spellbound for hours contemplating the deep.

The two lovers enjoyed complete freedom and went alone to walk through those byways and byways,
and along the resounding sea, and by oaks and olive groves wearing those hillsides, and by the
Verjel, groves and groves of the valley, watered by a Crystal Creek. But both were so as God
commands, that despite how much they wanted, not molested never anything but a warmly shaking
hands and once or twice at most, to consent to her receiving a chaste
kiss on the smooth and candid front, and achieve the pattern.

The highest virtue and delicacy of these cousins ​​put everything on hold for the day fortunate
in that religion and the laws contained in their indissoluble unity.

Meanwhile
they said two hundred thousand tenderness every time. "Your name is
a label I put on my heart, "exclaimed Echeloría. "My heart is yours
forever leave before beating that love you alone, "answered Mutileder.

These
sessions are the hours passed, and continued two lovers were together
less when Echeloría retired to sleep next to his old nurse and stay
very sheltered or when going to the beach for bathing, for then, in
order to avoid what people say and gossip, Mutileder not bathe her,
perhaps not used even swimwear, so complicated and conceal the ways
in which they are now in Biarritz and elsewhere.

III

Phoenician
city of Malaga was a lot of trade. Almost racing Cadiz. The port was
full Tyrian ship, Pelasgian, Greek and Etruscan. In its stores were
sold thousand beauties brought from distant countries: wool fabrics,
dyed purple in Tyre, gold jewelry, made in Memphis in Sais and other
Egyptian cities, gemstones and Hindustan cotton fabrics; Persian carpets,
silk and even the most ignored country of Seras.

Echeloría went to
Manchester several times with her father and her boyfriend, to visit
those stores and buy clothes to the wedding day sighed. 

Hallab then
in Malaga one of the boldest and marine scientists had then the world:
the famous Adherbal.

'I was a little bit of a coward in the business, I confess, Milly,' he said, in the midst of
this talk, 'and hadn't courage to tell you anything till the deed was done; and then I thought
it was as well to let Julian make the announcement.'

'You ought to have trusted me better, papa,' Milly said tenderly; and I knew what perfect self-abnegation
there was in the happy smile with which she gave him her hand.

'And you are not angry with me, my darling?' he asked.

'Angry with you, papa? as if I had any right to be angry with you! Only try to love me a little,
as you used to do, and I shall be quite happy.'

'I shall never love you less, my dear.'

The journey was not a long one; and the country through which we passed was very fair to look
upon in the bright June afternoon. The landscape changed when we were within about thirty miles
of our destination: the fertile farmlands and waving fields of green corn gave place to an
open moor, and I felt from far off the fresh breath of the ocean. This broad undulating moorland
was new to me, and I thought there was a wild kind of beauty in its loneliness. As for Milly,
she looked out at the moor with rapture, and strained her eyes to catch the first glimpse of
the hills about Thornleigh--those hills of which she had talked to me so often in her little
room at school.

The station we had to stop at was ten miles from Mr. Darrell's house, and a barouche-and-pair
was waiting for us in the sunny road outside. We drove along a road that crossed the moor,
until we came to a little village of scattered houses, with a fine old church--at one end of
which an ancient sacristy seemed mouldering slowly to decay. We drove past the gates of two
or three rather important houses, lying half-hidden in their gardens, and then turned sharply
off into a road that went up a hill, nearly at the top of which we came to a pair of noble
old carved iron gates, surmounted with a coat-of-arms, and supported on each side by massive
stone pillars, about which the ivy twined lovingly.

An old man came out of a pretty rustic-looking lodge and opened theses gates, and we drove
through an avenue of some extent, which led straight to the front of the house, the aspect
of which delighted me. It was very old and massively built, and had quite a baronial look,
I thought. There was a wide stone terrace with ponderous moss-grown stone balustrades round
three sides of it, and at each angle a broad flight of steps leading down to a second terrace,
with sloping green banks that melted into the turf of the lawn. The house stood on the summit
of a hill, and from one side commanded a noble view of the sea.

A lady came out of the curious old stone porch as the carriage drove up, and stood at the top
of the terrace steps waiting for us. I guessed immediately that this must be Mrs. Darrell.

Milly hung back a little shyly, as her father led her up the steps with her hand through his
arm. She was very pale, and I could see that she was trembling. Mrs. Darrell came forward to
her quickly, and kissed her.

'My darling Emily,' she cried, 'I am so delighted to see you at last.--O William, you did not
deceive me when you promised me a beautiful daughter.'

Milly blushed, and smiled at this compliment, but still clung to her father, with shy downcast
eyes.

I had time to look at Mrs. Darrell while this introduction was being made. She was not by any
means a beautiful woman, but she was what I suppose would have been called eminently interesting.
She was tall and slim, very graceful-looking, with a beautiful throat and a well- shaped head.
Her features, with the exception of her eyes, were in no way remarkable; but those were sufficiently
striking to give character to a face that might otherwise have been insipid. They were large
luminous gray eyes, with black lashes, and rather strongly-marked brows of a much darker brown
than her hair. That was of a nondescript shade, neither auburn nor chestnut, and with little
light or colour in its soft silky masses; but it seemed to harmonise very well with her pale
complexion. Lavater has warned us to distrust any one whose hair and eyebrows are of a different
colour. I remembered this as I looked at Mrs. Darrell.

She was dressed in white; and I fancied the transparent muslin, with no other ornament than
a lilac ribbon at the waist, was peculiarly becoming to her slender figure and delicate face.
Her husband seemed to think so too, for he looked at her with a fond admiring glance as he
offered her his arm to return to the house.

'I mustn't forget to introduce Miss Crofton to you, Augusta,' he said; 'a school friend of
Milly's, who has kindly accepted my invitation to spend the holidays with her.'

Mrs. Darrell gave me her hand; but I fancied that she did so rather coldly, and I had an uneasy
sense that I was not very welcome to the new mistress of Thornleigh.

'You will find your old rooms all ready for you, Milly,' she said; 'I suppose we had better
put Miss Crofton in the blue room--next yours?'

'If you please, Mrs. Darrell.'

'What, Milly, won't you call me mamma?'

Milly was silent for a few moments, with a pained expression in her face.

'Pray, forgive me,' she said in a low voice; 'I cannot call any one by that name.'

Augusta Darrell kissed her again silently.

'It shall be as you wish, dear,' she said, after a pause.

A rosy-cheeked, pleasant-looking girl, who had been accustomed to wait on Milly in the old
time, came forward to meet us, and ran before us to our rooms, expressing her delight at her
young lady's return all the way she went.

The rooms were very pretty, and were situated in that portion of the house which looked towards
the sea. There was a sitting-room, brightly furnished with some light kind of wood, and with
chintz hangings all over rose-buds and butterflies. This had been Milly's schoolroom, and there
was a good many books in two pretty-looking bookcases on each side of the fireplace. Besides
these, there were some curious old cabinets full of shells and china. It was altogether the
prettiest, most homelike room one could imagine.

Opening out of this, there was a large airy bedroom, with three windows commanding that glorious
view of moorland and sea; and beyond that, a dainty little dressing-room. The next door in
the corridor opened into the room that had been allotted to me; a large comfortable-looking
room, in which there was an old-fashioned mahogany four-post bed with blue-damask curtains.

I went to Milly's dressing-room when my own simple toilet was finished, and stood by the open
window talking to her while she arranged her hair. She dismissed her little maid directly I
went into the room, and I felt she had something to say to me.

'Well, Mary,' she began at once, 'what do you think of her?'

'Of Mrs. Darrell?'

'Of course.'

'What opinion can I possibly form about her, after seeing her for three minutes, Milly? I think
she is very elegant-looking. That is the only idea I have about her yet.'

'Do you think she looks true, Mary? Do you think she has married papa because she loves him?'

'My dear child, how can I tell that? She is a great many years younger than your papa, but
I do not see that the difference between them need be any real hindrance to her loving him.
He is a man whom any woman might care for, I should think; to say nothing of her natural gratitude
towards the man who has rescued her from a position of dependence.'

'Gratitude is all nonsense,' Miss Darrell answered impatiently. 'I want to know that my father
is loved as he deserves to be loved. I shall never tolerate that woman unless I can feel sure
of that.'

'I believe you are prejudiced against her already, Milly,' I said reproachfully.

'I daresay I am, Mary. I daresay I feel unjustly about her; but I don't like her face.'

'What is there in her face that you don't like?'

'O, I can't tell you that--an undefinable something. I have a sort of conviction that she and
I can never love each other.'

'It is rather hard upon Mrs. Darrell to begin with such a feeling as that, Milly.'

'I can't help it. Of course I shall try to do my duty to her, for papa's sake, and I shall
do my best to conquer all these unchristian feelings. But we cannot command our hearts, you
know, Mary, and I don't think I shall ever love my stepmother.'

She took me down to the drawing-room after this. It was half-past six, and we were to dine
at seven. The drawing-room was a long room, with five windows opening on to the terrace, an
old-fashioned- looking room with panelled walls and a fine arched ceiling. The wainscot was
painted white, with gilt mouldings, and the cornice and architraves of the doors were elaborately
carved. The furniture was white-and-gold like the walls, and in that spurious classical style
which prevailed during the first French Empire. The window-curtains and coverings of sofas
and chairs were of dark-green velvet.

A gentleman was standing in one of the open windows looking out at the garden. He turned as
Milly and I went in, and I recognised Mr. Stormont. He came forward to shake hands with his
cousin, and smiled his peculiar slow smile at her expression of surprise.

'You didn't know I was here, Milly?'

'No, indeed; I had no idea of seeing you.'

'I wonder your father did not tell you of my visit. I came over this morning for a fortnight's
holiday. I've been working a little harder than usual lately, and my uncle is good enough to
say I have earned a rest.'

'I wonder you don't go abroad for a change.'

'I don't care about a change. I had much rather come to Thornleigh.'

He looked at her very earnestly as he said this. I had been sure of it that afternoon when
we all three sat in the summer-house at Albury Lodge, but I could see that Milly herself had
no idea of the truth.

'Well, Milly, what do you think of your new mamma?' he asked presently.

'I had rather not tell you yet.'

'Humph! that hardly sounds favourable to the lady. She seems to me a very charming person;
but she is not my stepmother, and, of course, that makes a difference. Your father is intensely
devoted.'

Mr. Darrell came into the room a few minutes after this, and his wife followed him almost immediately.
Milly placed herself next her father, and contrived to absorb his attention, not quite to the
satisfaction of the elder lady, I fancied. Those bright gray eyes flashed upon my darling with
a brief look of anger, which changed in the next moment to quiet watchfulness.

Mrs. Darrell stood by one of the tables, idly turning over some books and papers, and finding
me seated near her, began to talk to me presently in a very gracious manner, asking me how
I liked Thornleigh, and a few other questions of a stereotyped kind; but even while she talked
those watchful eyes were always turned towards the window where the father and daughter stood
side by side. Mr. Stormont came over to her while she was talking to me, and joined in the
conversation; in the midst of which a grave gray-haired old butler came to announce dinner.

Mr. Stormont offered his arm to the lady of the house, while Mr. Darrell gave one arm to me
and the other to his daughter; and we went down a long passage, at the end of which was the
dining-room, a noble old room, with dark oak panelling and a great many pictures by the old
masters, which were, no doubt, as valuable as they were dingy. We dined at an oval table, prettily
decorated with flowers and with some very curious old silver.

There was a good deal of talk at dinner, in which I could take very little part. Mr. and Mrs.
Darrell talked to Julian Stormont of their travels; and I must confess the lady talked well,
with no affectation of enthusiasm, and with an evident knowledge and appreciation of the things
she was speaking about. I envied her those wanderings in sunny foreign lands, even though they
had been made in the company of an invalid dowager, and I wondered whether she would be happy
in a settled existence at Thornleigh.

After dinner Milly took me out upon the terrace, and from thence we went to explore the gardens.
We had not been out long before Julian Stormont came to join us. We had been talking pleasantly
enough till he appeared, but his coming seemed to make us both silent, and he himself had a
thoughtful air. I watched his pale face as he walked beside us in the twilight, and was again
struck by the careworn look about the brow and the resolute expression of the mouth.

He was very fond of Milly. Of that fact there could be no possible doubt; and I think he had
already begun to suffer keenly from the knowledge that his love was unreturned. That he hoped
against hope at this time--that he counted fully on his power to win her in the future, I know.
He was too wise to precipitate matters by any untimely avowal of his feelings. He waited with
a quiet resolute patience which was a part of his nature.

Of course we talked a little, but it was in a straggling, desultory kind of way; and I think
it was a relief to all of us when we finished the round of the gardens and went in through
one of the drawing-room windows. The room was lighted with lamps and candles placed about upon
the tables, and Mrs. Darrell was sitting near her husband, employed upon some airy scrap of
fancy-work, while he read his Times.

He asked for some music soon after we went in, and she rose to obey him with a very charming
air of submission. She played magnificently, with a power and style that were quite new to
me, for I had heard no professional performers. She sang an Italian scena afterwards, in a
rich mezzo-soprano, and with a kind of suppressed passion that impressed me deeply. I scarcely
wondered, after hearing her play and sing, that Mr. Darrell had been fascinated by her. These
gifts of hers were in themselves sufficient to subjugate a man who really cared for music.

Milly was charmed into forgetfulness of her prejudices. She went over to the piano and kissed
her stepmother.

'Papa told me how clever you were,' she said; 'but he did not tell me you were a genius.'

Mrs. Darrell received the compliment very modestly, and then tried to persuade Milly to sing
or play; but the girl declined resolutely. Nothing could induce her to touch the piano after
that brilliant performance.

The next day and several days passed very quietly, and in a kind of monotonous comfort. The
rector of the parish dined with us one day, and on another a neighbouring squire with his wife
and three daughters. Milly and I spent a good deal of our time in the gardens and on the sea-shore,
with Julian Stormont for our companion, while Mr. and Mrs. Darrell rode or drove together.
My darling could see that she was not expected to join them in these rides and drives, and
I think this confirmed her idea that her father was in a manner lost to her.

'I must try to be satisfied with this new state of things, Mary,' she said, with a sigh of
resignation. 'If my father is happy, I ought to be contented. But O, my dear, if you could
have seen us together a year ago, you would know how much I have lost.'

I had been at Thornleigh a little more than a week, when Mr. Darrell one morning proposed a
drive to a place called Cumber Priory, which was one of the show-houses of the neighbourhood.
It was a very old place, he said, and had been one of the earliest monastic settlements in
that part of the country. Milly and her father and her cousin had been there a great many times,
and the visit was proposed for the gratification of Mrs. Darrell and myself.

She assented graciously, as she always did to every proposition of her husband's, and we started
soon after breakfast in the barouche, with Julian Stormont on horseback. The drive was delightful;
for, after leaving the hilly district about Thornleigh, our road lay through a wood, where
the trees were of many hundred years' growth. I recognised groups of oak and beech that I had
seen among the sketches in Milly's portfolio.

On the other side of the wood we came to some dilapidated-looking gates, with massive stone
escutcheons on the great square pillars. There was a lodge, but it was evidently unoccupied,
and Mr. Darrell's footman got down from the box to open the gates. Within we made the circuit
of a neglected lawn, divided from a park by a sunk fence, across which some cattle stared at
us in a lazy manner as we drove past them. The house was a long low building with heavily mullioned
windows, and was flanked by gothic towers. Most of the windows had closed shutters, and the
place had altogether a deserted look.

'The Priory has not been occupied for several years,' Mr. Darrell said, as if in answer to
my thoughts as I looked up at the closed windows. 'The family have been too poor to live in
it in anything like their old state. There is only one member of the old family remaining now,
and he leads a wandering kind of life abroad, I believe.'

'What has made them so poor?' asked Mrs. Darrell.

'Extravagant habits, I suppose,' answered her husband, with an expressive shrug of the shoulders.
'The Egertons have always been a wild race.'

'Egerton!' Mrs. Darrell repeated; 'I thought the name of these people was Cumber.'

'No; Cumber is only the name of the place. It has been in the Egerton family for centuries.'

'Indeed!'

I was seated exactly opposite her, and I was surprised by the strange startled look in her
face as she repeated the name of Egerton. That look passed away in the next moment, and left
her with her usual air of languid indifference; a placid kind of listlessness which harmonised
very well with her pale complexion and delicate features. She was not a woman from whom one
expected much animation.

The low iron-studded door of the Priory was opened by a decent- looking old woman of that species
which seems created expressly for the showing of old houses. She divined our errand at once,
and as soon as we were in the hall, began her catalogue of pictures and curiosities in the
usual mechanical way, while we looked about us, always fixing our eyes on the wrong object,
and more bewildered than enlightened by her description of the chief features of the place.

We went from room to room, the dame throwing open the shutters of the deep-set gothic windows,
and letting in a flood of sunshine upon the faded tapestries and tarnished picture-frames.
It was a noble old place, and the look of decay upon everything was more in accord with its
grandeur than any modern splendour could have been.

We had been through all the rooms on the ground floor, most of which opened into one another,
and were returning towards the hall, when Mr. Darrell missed his wife, and sent me back to
look for her in one direction, while he went in another. I hurried through three or four empty
rooms, until I came to a small one at the end of the house, and here I found her. I had not
noticed this room much, for it was furnished in a more modern style than the rest of the house,
and the old housekeeper had made very light of it, hurrying us back to look at some armour
over the chimneypiece in the next room. It was her master's study, she had said, and was not
generally shown to strangers.

It was a small dark-looking room, lined with dingily-bound books upon heavy carved-oak shelves,
and with no other furniture than a massive writing-table and three or four arm-chairs. Over
the mantelpiece, which was modern and low, there was a portrait of a young man with a dark
handsome face, and it was at this that Augusta Darrell was looking. I could see her face in
profile as she stood upon the hearth with her clenched hand upon the mantelpiece, and I had
never before seen such an expression in any human countenance.

What was it? Despair, remorse, regret? I know not; but it was a look of keenest anguish, of
unutterable sorrow. The face was deadly pale, the great gray eyes looking upwards at the portrait,
the lips locked together rigidly.

She did not hear my footstep; it was only when I spoke to her that she turned towards me with
a stony face, and asked what I wanted.

I told her that Mr. Darrell had sent me.

'I was coming this instant,' she said, resuming her usual manner with an effort. 'I had only
loitered to look at that portrait. A fine face, is it not, Miss Crofton?'

'A handsome one, at any rate,' I answered doubtfully, for that dark haughty countenance struck
me as rather repellent than attractive.

'That's as much as to say you don't think it a good face. Well, perhaps you are right. It reminded
me of some one I knew a long time ago, and was rather interesting to me on that account. And
then I fell into a kind of a reverie, and forgot that my dear husband might miss me.'

He came into the room as she was saying this. She told him that she had stopped to look at
the portrait, and asked whose it was.

'It is a likeness of Angus Egerton, the present owner of the Priory,' Mr. Darrell answered;
'and a very good likeness, too--of as bad a man as ever lived, I believe,' he added in a lower
voice.

'A bad man?'

'Yes; he broke his mother's heart.'

'In what manner?'

'He fell in love with a girl of low birth, whom he met in the course of a pedestrian tour in
the West of England, and was going to marry her, I believe, when Mrs. Egerton got wind of the
affair. She was a very proud woman--one of the most resolute masculine-minded women I ever
knew. She went down into Devonshire where the girl lived immediately, and by some means or
other prevented the marriage. How it was done I never heard; but it was not until a year afterwards
that Angus Egerton discovered his mother's part in the business. He came down to the Priory
suddenly and unexpectedly at a late hour one night, and walked straight to his mother's room.
I have heard that old woman who has been showing us the house describe his ghastly face--she
was Mrs. Egerton's maid in those days--as he pushed her aside and went into the room where
his mother was sitting. There was a dreadful scene between them, and at the end of it Angus
Egerton walked out of the house, swearing never again to enter it while his mother lived. He
has kept his word. Mrs. Egerton never crossed the threshold after that night, and refused to
see anybody except her servants and her doctor. She lived this lonely kind of life for nearly
three years, and then died of some slow wasting disease, for which the doctor could find no name.'

'And where did Mr. Egerton go after leaving her that night?'

'He slept at a little inn at Cumber, and went back to London next morning. He left England
soon after that, and has lived abroad ever since.'

'And you think him a very bad man?'

'I consider his conduct to his mother a sufficient evidence of that.'

'He may have believed himself deeply wronged.'

'He must have known that she had acted in his interests when she prevented his committing the
folly of a low marriage. She was his mother, and had been a most devoted and indulgent mother.'

'And in the end contrived to break his heart--to say nothing of the girl who loved him, who
was of course a piece of common clay, not worth consideration.'

'I did not think you had so much romance, Augusta,' said Mr. Darrell, laughing; 'I suppose
it is natural for a woman to take the part of unfortunate lovers, however foolish the affair
may be. But I believe this Devonshire girl was quite unworthy of an honourable attachment on
the part of any man. You see I knew and liked Mrs. Egerton, and I know how she loved her son.
I cannot forgive him his conduct to her; nor have the reports of his life abroad been by any
means favourable to his character. His career seems to have been a very wild and dissipated one.'

'And he has never married?'

'No, he has never married.'

'He has been true, at least,' Mrs. Darrell said in a low thoughtful tone.

We had lingered in the little study while her husband had told his story. We went back to the
hall now, and found Milly and Mr. Stormont looking rather listlessly at the old portraits of
the Egerton race. I was anxious to see a picture of the last Mrs. Egerton, after what I had
heard about her, and, at my request, the housekeeper showed me one in the drawing-room.

She was very handsome, and wonderfully like her son. I could fancy those two haughty spirits
in opposition.

We spent another hour looking over the rest of the house--old tapestry, old pictures, old china,
old furniture, secret staircases, carved chimneypieces, muniment chests, and the usual objects
of interest to be found in such a place. After that we walked a little in the neglected garden,
where there were old holly hedges that had grown high and wild for want of clipping, and where
a curious old sun-dial had fallen down upon the grass in a forlorn way. The paths were all
green and moss-grown, and the roses were almost choked with bindweed. I saw Mrs. Darrell gather
one of these roses and put it in her breast. It was the first time I have ever seen her pluck
a flower, though there was a wealth of roses at Thornleigh.

So ended our visit to Cumber Priory; a place that was destined to be very memorable to some
of us in the time to come.

CHAPTER IV.

MRS. THATCHER.

It had been Milly's habit to devote one day a week to visiting among the poor, before she went
to Albury Lodge; and she now resumed this practice, I accompanying her upon her visits. I had
been used to going about among the cottagers at home, and I liked the work. It was very pleasant
to see Milly Darrell with these people--the perfect confidence and sympathy between them and
her, the delight they seemed to take in her bright cheering presence. I was struck by their
simple natural manner, and the absence of anything like sycophancy to be observed in them.
One day, when we had been to several cottages about the village, Milly asked me if I could
manage rather a long walk; and on my telling her that I could, we started upon a lonely road
that wound across the moor in a direction I had never walked in until that day. We went on
for about two miles without passing a human habitation, and then came to one of the most desolate-looking
cottages I ever remember seeing. It was little better than a cabin, and consisted only of two
rooms--a kind of kitchen or dwelling-room, and a dark little bedchamber opening out of it.

'I am not going to introduce you to a very agreeable person, Mary,' Milly said, when we were
within a few paces of this solitary dwelling; 'but old Rebecca is a character in her way, and
I make a point of coming to see her now and then, though she is not always very gracious to me.'

It was a warm bright summer's day, but the door and the single window of the cottage were firmly
closed. Milly knocked with her hand, and a thin feeble old voice called to her to 'come in.'

We went in: the atmosphere of the place was hot, and had an unpleasant doctor's-shoppish kind
of odour, which I found was caused by some herbs in a jar that was simmering over a little
stove in a corner. Bunches of dried herbs hung from the low ceiling, and on an old-fashioned
lumbering chest of drawers that stood in the window there were more herbs and roots laid out
to dry.

'Mrs. Thatcher is a very clever doctor, Mary,' said Milly, as if by way of introduction; 'all
our servants come to her to be cured when they have colds and coughs.--And how are you this
lovely summer weather, Mrs. Thatcher?'

'None too well, miss,' grumbled the old woman; 'I don't like the summer time; it never suited me.'

'That's strange,' said Milly gaily; 'I thought everybody liked summer.'

'Not those that live as I do, Miss Darrell. There's no illness in summer--no colds, nor coughs,
nor sore-threats, nor suchlikes. I don't know that I shouldn't starve outright, if it wasn't
for the ague; and even that is nothing now to what it used to be.'

I was quite horror-struck by this ghoulish speech; but Milly only laughed gaily at the old
woman's candour.

'If the doctors were as plain-spoken as you, I daresay they'd say pretty much the same kind
of thing, Mrs. Thatcher,' she said. 'How's your grandson?'

'O, he's well enough, Miss Darrell. Naught's never in danger.--Peter, come here, and see the
young ladies.'

A poor, feeble, pale-faced, semi-idiotic-looking boy came slowly out of the dark little bedroom,
and stood grinning at us. He had the white sickly aspect of a creature reared without the influence
of air and light; and I pitied him intensely as he stood there staring and grinning in that
dreadful hopeless manner.

'Poor Peter!' He's no better, I'm afraid,' said Milly gently.

'No, miss, nor never will be. He knows more than people think, and has queer cunning ways of
his own; but he'll never be any better or wiser than he is now.'

'Not if you were to take as much pains with him as you do with the patients who pay you, Mrs.
Thatcher?' asked Milly.

'I've taken pains with him,' answered the woman, with a scowl. 'I took to him kindly enough
when he was a little fellow; but he's grown up to be nothing but a plague and a burden to me.'

The boy left off grinning, and his poor weak chin sank lower on his narrow chest. His attitude
had been a stooping one from the first; but he drooped visibly under the old woman's reproof.

'Can he employ himself in no way?'

'No, miss; except in picking the herbs and roots for me sometimes. He can do that, and he knows
one from t'other.'

'He's of some use to you, at any rate, then,' said Milly.

'Little enough,' the old woman answered sulkily. 'I don't want help; I've plenty of time to
gather them myself. But I've taught him to pick them, and it's the only thing he ever could learn.'

'Poor fellow! He's your only grandchild, isn't he, Mrs. Thatcher?'

'Yes, he's the only one, miss, and he'd need be. I don't know how I should keep another. You
can't remember my daughter Ruth? She was as pretty a girl as you'd care to see. She was housemaid
at Cumber priory in Mrs. Egerton's time, and she married the butler. They set up in business
in a little public-house in Thornleigh village, and he took to drinking, till everything went
to rack and ruin. My poor girl took the trouble to heart more than her husband did, a great
deal; and I believe it was the trouble that killed her. She died three weeks after that boy
was born, and her husband ran away the day after the funeral, and has never been heard of since.
Some say he drowned himself in the Clem; but he was a precious deal too fond of himself for
that. He was up to his eyes in debt, and didn't leave a sixpence behind him; that's how Peter
came to be thrown on my hands.'

'Come here, Peter,' said Milly softly; and the boy went to her directly, and took the hand
she offered him.

'You've not forgotten me, have you, Peter? Miss Darrell, who used to talk to you sometimes
a long time ago.'

The boy's vacant face brightened into something like intelligence.

'I know you, miss,' he said; 'you was always kind to Peter. It's not many that I know; but
I know you.'

She took out her purse and gave him half-a-crown.

'There, Peter, there's a big piece of silver for your own self, to buy whatever you like--sugar-sticks,
gingerbread, marbles--anything.'

His clumsy hand closed upon the coin, and I have no doubt he was pleased by the donation; but
he never took his eyes from Milly Darrell's face. That bright lovely face seemed to exercise
a kind of fascination upon him.

'Don't you think Peter would be better if you were to give him a little more air and sunshine,
Mrs. Thatcher?' Milly asked presently; 'that bedroom seems rather a dark close place.'

'He needn't be there unless he likes,' Mrs. Thatcher answered indifferently. 'He sits out of
doors whenever he chooses.'

'Then I should always sit out-of-doors on fine days, if I were you, Peter,' said Milly.

After this she talked a little to Mrs. Thatcher, who was by no means a sympathetic person,
while I sat looking on, and contemplating the old woman with a feeling that was the reverse
of admiration.

She was of a short squat figure, with broad shoulders and no throat to speak of, and her head
seemed too big for her body. Her face was long and thin, with large features, and a frame of
scanty gray hair, among which a sandy tinge still lingered here and there; her eyes were of
an ugly reddish-brown, and had, I thought, a most sinister expression. I must have been very
ill, and sorely at a loss for a doctor, before I could have been induced to trust my health
to the care of Mrs. Rebecca Thatcher.

I told Milly as much while we were walking homewards, and she admitted that Rebecca Thatcher
was no favourite even among the country people, who believed implicitly in her skill.

'I'm afraid she tells fortunes, and dabbles in all sorts of superstitious tricks,' Milly added
gravely; 'but she is so artful, there is no way of finding her out in that kind of business.
The foolish country girls who consult her always keep her secret, and she manages to put on
a fair face before our rector and his curate, who believe her to be a respectable woman.'

The days and weeks slipped by very pleasantly at Thornleigh, and the end of those bright midsummer
holidays came only too soon. It seemed a bitter thing to say 'good-bye' to Milly Darrell, and
to go back alone to a place which must needs be doubly dull and dreary to me without her. She
had been my only friend at Albury Lodge; loving her as I did, I had never cared to form any
other friendship.

The dreaded day came at last--dreaded I know by both of us; and I said 'good-bye' to my darling
so quietly, that I am sure none could have guessed the grief I felt in this parting. Mrs. Darrell
was very kind and gracious on this occasion, begging that I would come back to Thornleigh at
Christmas--if they should happen to spend their Christmas there.

Milly looked up at her wonderingly as she said this.

'Is there any chance of our spending it elsewhere, Augusta?' she asked.

Mrs. Darrell had persuaded her stepdaughter to use this familiar Christian name, rather than
the more formal mode of address.

'I don't know, my dear. Your papa has sometimes talked of a house in town, or we might be abroad.
I can only say that if we are at home here, we shall be very much pleased to see Miss Crofton
again.'

I thanked her, kissed Milly once more, and so departed--to be driven to the station in state
in the barouche, and to look sadly back at the noble old house in which I had been so happy.

Once more I returned to the dryasdust routine of Albury Lodge, and rang the changes upon history
and geography, chronology and English grammar, physical science and the elements of botany,
until my weary head ached and my heart grew sick. And when I came to be a governess, it would
of course be the same thing over and over again, on a smaller scale. And this was to be my
future, without hope of change or respite, until I grew an old woman worn-out with the drudgery
of tuition!

CHAPTER V.

MILLY'S LETTER.

The half-year wore itself slowly away. There were no incidents to mark the time, no change
except the slow changes of the seasons; and my only pleasures were letters from home or from
Emily Darrell.

Of the home letters I will not speak--they could have no interest except for myself; but Milly's
are links in the story of a life. She wrote to me as freely as she had talked to me, pouring
out all her thoughts and fancies with that confiding frankness which was one of the most charming
attributes of her mind. For some time the letters contained nothing that could be called news;
but late in September there came one which seemed to me to convey intelligence of some importance.

'You will be grieved to hear, my darling Mary,' she wrote, after a little playful discussion
of my own affairs, 'that my stepmother and I are no nearer anything like a real friendship
than we were when you left us. What it is that makes the gulf between us, I cannot tell; but
there is something, some hidden feeling in both our minds, I think, which prevents our growing
fond of each other. She is very kind to me, so far as perfect non-interference with my doings,
and a gracious manner when we are together, can go; but I am sure she does not like me. I have
surprised her more than once looking at me with the strangest expression--a calculating, intensely
thoughtful look, that made her face ten years older than it is at other times. Of course there
are times when we are thrown together alone--though this does not occur often, for she and
my father are a most devoted couple, and spend the greater part of every day together--and
I have noticed at those times that she never speaks of her girlhood, or of any part of her
life before her marriage. All that came before seems a blank page, or a sealed volume that
she does not care to open. I asked some trifling question about her father once, and she turned
upon me almost angrily.

"I do not care to speak about him, Milly," she said; "he was not a good father, and he is best
forgotten. I never had a real friend till I met my husband."

'There is one part of her character which I am bound to appreciate. I believe that she is really
grateful and devoted to papa, and he certainly seems thoroughly happy in her society. The marriage
had the effect which I felt sure it must have--it has divided us two most completely; but if
it has made him happy, I have no reason to complain. What could I wish for beyond his happiness?

'And now, Milly, for my news. Julian Stormont has been here, and has asked me to be his wife.

'He came over last Saturday afternoon, intending to stop with us till Monday morning. It was
a bright warm day here, and in the afternoon he persuaded me to walk to Cumber Church with
him. You remember the way we drove through the wood the day we went to the Priory, I daresay;
but there is a nearer way than that for foot passengers, and I think a prettier one--a kind
of cross-cut through the same wood. I consented willingly enough, having nothing better to
do with myself, and we had a pleasant walk to church, talking of all kinds of things. As we
returned Julian grew very serious, and when we were about half way upon our journey, he asked
me if I could guess what had brought him over to Thornleigh. Of course I told him that I concluded
he had come as he usually did--for rest and change after the cares of business, and to talk
about business affairs with papa.

'He told me he had come for something more than that. He came to tell me that he had loved
me all his life; that there was nothing my father would like better than our union if it could
secure my happiness, as he hoped and believed it might.

'I think you know, Mary, that no idea of this kind had ever entered my mind. I told Julian
this, and told him that, however I might esteem him as my cousin, he could never be nearer
or dearer to me than that. The change in his face when he heard this almost frightened me.
He grew deadly pale, but I am certain it was anger rather than disappointment that was uppermost
in his mind. I never knew until then what a hard cruel face it could be.

"Is this irrevocable, Emily?" he asked, in a cold firm voice; "is there no hope that you will
change your mind by and by?"

"No, Julian; I am never likely to do that."

"There is some one else, then, I suppose," he said.

"No, indeed, there is no one else."

"Highly complimentary to me!" he cried, with a harsh laugh.

'I was very sorry for him, in spite of that angry look.

"Pray don't imagine that I do not appreciate your many high qualities, Julian," I said, "or
that I do not feel honoured by your preference for me. No doubt there are many women in the
world better deserving your regard than I am, who would be able to return it."

"Thank you for that little conventional speech," he cried with a sneer. "A man builds all his
hopes of happiness on one woman, and she coolly shatters the fabric of his life, and then tells
him to go and build elsewhere. I daresay there are women in the world who would condescend
to marry me if I asked them, but it is my misfortune to care only for one woman. I can't transfer
my affection, as a man transfers his capital from one form of investment to another."

'We walked on for some time in silence. I was determined not to be angry with him, however
ungraciously he might speak to me; and when we were drawing near home, I begged that we might
remain friends still, and that this unfortunate conversation might make no difference between
us. I told him I knew how much my father valued him, and that it would distress me deeply if
he deserted Thornleigh on my account.

"Friends!" he replied, in an absent tone; "yes, we are still friends of course, and I shall
not desert Thornleigh."

'He seemed gayer than usual that evening after dinner. Whether the gaiety was assumed in order
to hide his depression, or whether he was really able to take the matter lightly, I cannot
tell. Of course I cannot shut out of my mind the consideration that a marriage with me would
be a matter of great worldly advantage to Julian, who has nothing but the salary he receives
from my father, and who by such a marriage would most likely secure immediate possession of
the business, in which he is already a kind of deputy principal.

'I noticed that my stepmother was especially kind to Julian this evening, and that she and
he sat apart in one of the windows for some time talking to each other in a low confidential
tone, while my father took his after-dinner nap. I wonder whether he told her of our interview
that afternoon?

'He went back to Shields early next morning, and bade me good-bye quite in his usual manner;
so I hoped he had forgiven me; but the affair has left an unpleasant feeling in my mind, a
sort of vague dread of some trouble to arise out of it in the future. I cannot forget that
hard cruel look in my cousin's face.

'When he was gone, Mrs. Darrell began to praise him very warmly, and my father spoke of him
in the same tone. They talked of him a good deal as we lingered over our breakfast, and I fancied
there was some intention with regard to me in the minds of both--they seem indeed to think
alike upon every subject. Dearly as I love my father, this is a point upon which even his influence
could not affect me. I might be weak and yielding upon every other question, never upon this.

'And now let me tell you about my friend Peter, Rebecca Thatcher's half-witted grandson. You
know how painfully we were both struck by the poor fellow's listless hopeless manner when we
were at the cottage on the moor. I thought of it a great deal afterwards, and it occurred to
me that our head-gardener might find work for him in the way of weeding, and rolling the gravel
paths, and such humble matters. Brook is a good kind old man, and always ready to do anything
to please me; so I asked him the question one day in August, and he promised that when he next
wanted extra hands Peter Thatcher should be employed, "Though I don't suppose I shall ever
make much of him, miss," he said; "but there's naught I wouldn't do to please you."

'Well, my dear Mary, the boy came, and has done so well as quite to surprise Brook and the
other two gardeners. He has an extraordinary attachment to me, and nothing delights him so
much as to wait upon me when I am attending to my ferns, a task I always perform myself, as
you know. To see this poor boy, standing by with a watering-pot in one hand, and a little basket
of dead leaves in the other, watching me as breathlessly as if I were some great surgeon operating
upon a patient, would make you smile; but I think you could scarcely fail to be touched by
his devotion. He tells me that he is so happy at Thornleigh, and he begins to look a great
deal brighter already. The men say he is indefatigable in his work, and worth two ordinary
boys. He is passionately fond of flowers, and I have begun to teach him the elements of botany.
It is rather slow work impressing the names of the plants upon his poor feeble brain; but he
is so anxious to learn, and so proud of being taught, that I am well repaid for my trouble.'

Milly was very anxious that I should spend Christmas at Thornleigh; but it was by that time
nearly a year since I had seen the dear ones at home, and ill as my dear father could afford
any addition to his expenses, he wished me to spend my holidays with him; and so it was arranged
that I should return to Warwickshire, much to my dear girl's regret.

The holiday was a very happy one; and, before it was over, I received a letter from Milly,
telling me that Mr. and Mrs. Darrell were going abroad for some months, and asking me to cut
short my term at Albury Lodge, and come to Thornleigh as her companion, at a salary which I
thought a very handsome one.

The idea of exchanging the dull monotony of Miss Bagshot's establishment for such a home as
Thornleigh, with the friend I loved as dearly as a sister, was more than delightful to me,
to say nothing of a salary which would enable me to buy my own clothes and leave a margin for
an annual remittance to my father. I talked the subject over with him, and he wrote immediately
to Miss Bagshot, requesting her to waive the half-year's notice of the withdrawal of my services,
to which she was fairly entitled. This she consented very kindly to do; and instead of going
back to Albury Lodge, I went to Thornleigh.

Mr. and Mrs. Darrell had started for Paris when I arrived, and the house seemed very empty
and quiet. My dear girl came into the hall to receive me, and led me off to her pretty sitting-room,
where there was a bright fire, and where, she told me, she spent almost the whole of her time now.

'And are you really pleased to come to me, Mary?' she asked, when our first greetings were over.

'More than pleased, my darling. It seems almost too bright a life for me. I can hardly believe
in it yet.'

'But perhaps you will seen get as tired of Thornleigh as ever you did of Albury Lodge. It will
be rather a dull kind of life, you know; only you and I and the old servants.'

'I shall never feel dull with you, Milly. But tell me how all this came about. How was it you
didn't go abroad with Mr. and Mrs. Darrell?'

'Ah, that is rather strange, isn't it? The truth of the matter is, that Augusta did not want
me to go with them. She does not like me, Mary, that is the real truth, through she affects
to be very fond of me, and has contrived to make my father think she is so. What is there that
she cannot make him think? She does not like me; and she is never quite happy or at her ease
when I am with her. She had been growing tired of Thornleigh for some time when the winter
began; and she looked so pale and ill, that my father got anxious about her. The doctor here
treated her in the usual stereotyped way, and made very light of her ailments, but recommended
change of air and scene. Papa proposed going to Scarborough; but somehow or other Augusta contrived
to change Scarborough into Paris, and they are to spend the winter and spring there, and perhaps
go on to Germany in the summer. At first papa was very anxious to take me with them; but Augusta
dropped some little hints--it would interrupt my studies, and unsettle me, and so on. You know
I am rather proud, Mary, so you can imagine I was not slow to understand her. I said I would
much prefer to stay at Thornleigh, and proposed immediately that you should come to me and
be my companion, and help me on with my studies.'

'My dearest, how good of you to wish that!'

'It was not at all good. I think you are the only person in the world who really cares for
me, now that I have lost papa--for I have lost him, you see, Mary; that becomes more obvious
every day. Well, dear, I had a hard battle to fight. Mrs. Darrell said you were absurdly young
for such a position, and that I required a matronly person, able to direct and protect me,
and take the management of the house in her absence, and so on; but I said that I wanted neither
direction nor protection; that the house wanted no other management than that of Mrs. Bunce
the housekeeper, who has managed it ever since I was a baby; and that if I could not have Mary
Crofton, I would have no one at all. I told papa what an indefatigable darling you were, and
how conscientiously you would perform anything you promised to do. So, after a good deal of
discussion, the matter was settled; and here we are, with the house all to ourselves, and the
prospect of being alone together for six months to come.'

I asked her if she had seen much of Mr. Stormont since that memorable Sunday afternoon.

'He has been here twice,' she said, 'for his usual short visit from Saturday afternoon till
Monday morning, and he has treated me just as if that uncomfortable interview had never taken
place.'

We were very happy together in the great lonely house, amongst old servants, who seemed to
take a pleasure in waiting on us. We spent our mornings and evenings in Milly's sitting-room,
and took our meals in a snug prettily-furnished breakfast-room on the ground- floor. We read
together a great deal, going through a systematic course of study of a very different kind
from the dry labours at Albury Lodge. There was a fine old library at Thornleigh, and we read
the masters of English and French prose together with unflagging interest and pleasure. Besides
all this, Milly worked hard at her music, and still harder at her painting, which was a real
delight to her.

Mr. Collingwood the rector, and his family, came to see us, and insisted on our visiting them
frequently in a pleasant unceremonious manner; and we had other invitations from Milly's old
friends in the neighbourhood of Thornleigh.

There were carriages at our disposal, but we did not often use them. Milly preferred walking;
and we used to take long rambles together whenever the weather was favourable--rambles across
the moor, or far away over the hills, or deep into the wood between Thornleigh and Cumber.

CHAPTER VI.

A NEW ACQUAINTANCE.

It was shortly after my arrival at Thornleigh that I first saw the man whose story I had heard
in the study at Cumber Priory. Milly and I had been together about a fortnight, and it was
the end of January--cold, clear, bright weather--when we set out early one afternoon for a
ramble in our favourite wood, Milly furnished with pencils and sketch-book, in order to jot
down any striking effect of the gaunt leafless old trees. She had a hardy disregard of cold
in her devotion to her art, and would sit down to sketch in the bitter January weather in spite
of my entreaties.

We stayed out longer than usual, and Milly had stopped once or twice to make a hasty sketch,
when the sky grew suddenly dark, and big drops of rain began to fall slowly. There were speedily
succeeded by a pelting storm of rain and hail, and we felt that we were caught, and must be
drenched to the skin before we could get back to Thornleigh. The weather had been temptingly
fine when we left home, and we had neither umbrellas nor any other kind of protection against
the rain.

'We had better scamper off as fast as we can,' said Milly.

'But we can't run four miles. Hadn't we better go on to Cumber, and wait in the village till
the weather changes, or try to get some kind of conveyance there?'

'Well, I suppose that would be best. There must be such a thing as a fly at Cumber, I should
think, small as the place is. But it's nearly a mile from here to the village.'

'Anything seems better than going back through the wood in such a weather,' I said.

We were close to the outskirts of the wood at this time, and within a very short distance of
the Priory gates. While we were still pausing in an undecided way, with the rain pelting down
upon us, a figure came towards us from among the leafless trees--the figure of a man, a gentleman,
as we could see by his dress and bearing, and a stranger. We had never met any one but country-people,
farm- labourers, and so on, in the wood before, and were a little startled by his apparition.

He came up to us quickly, lifting his hat as he approached us.

'Caught in the storm, ladies,' he said, 'and without umbrellas I see, too. Have you far to go?'

'Yes, we have to go as far as Thornleigh,' Milly answered.

'Quite impossible in such weather. Will you come into the Priory and wait till the storm is over?'

'The Priory! To be sure!' cried Milly. 'I never thought of that. I know the housekeeper very
well, and I am sure she would let us stop there.'

We walked towards the Priory gates, the stranger accompanying us. I had no opportunity of looking
at him under that pelting rain, but I was wondering all the time who he was, and how he came
to speak of Cumber Priory in that familiar tone.

One of the gates stood open, and we went in.

'A desolate-looking place, isn't it?' said the stranger. 'Dismal enough, without the embellishment
of such weather as this.'

He led the way to the hall-door, and opened it unceremoniously, standing aside for us to pass
in before him. There was a fire burning in the wide old-fashioned fireplace, and the place
had an air of occupation that was new to it.

'I'll send for Mrs. Mills, and she shall take your wet shawls away to be dried,' said the stranger,
ringing a bell; and I think we both began to understand by this time that he must be the master
of the house.

'You are very kind,' Milly answered, taking off her dripping shawl. 'I did not know that the
Priory was occupied except by the old servants. I fear you must have thought me very impertinent
just now when I talked so coolly of taking shelter here.'

'I am only too glad that you should find refuge in the old place.'

He wheeled a couple of ponderous carved-oak chairs close to the hearth, and begged us to sit
there; but Milly preferred standing in the noble old gothic window looking out at the rain.

'They will be getting anxious about us at home,' she said, 'if we are not back before dark.'

'I wish I possessed a close carriage to place at your service. I do, indeed, boast of the ownership
of a dog-cart, if you would not be afraid of driving in such a barbarous vehicle when the rain
is over. It would keep you out of the mud, at any rate.'

Milly laughed gaily.

'I have been brought up in the country,' she said, 'and am not at all afraid of driving in
a dog-cart. I used often to go out with papa in his, before he married.'

'Then, when the storm is over, I shall have the pleasure of driving you to Thornleigh, if you
will permit me that honour.'

Milly looked a little perplexed at this, and made some excuse about not wishing to cause so
much trouble.

'I really think we could walk home very well; don't you, Mary?' she said; and I declared myself
quite equal to the walk.

'It would be impossible for you to get back to Thornleigh before dark,' the gentleman remonstrated.
'I shall be quite offended if you refuse the use of my dog-cart, and insist on getting wet
feet. I daresay your feet are wet as it is, by the bye.'

We assured him of the thickness of our boots, and gave our shawls to Mrs. Mills the old housekeeper,
who carried them off to be dried in the kitchen, and promised to convey the order about the
dog-cart to the stables immediately.

I had time now to look at our new acquaintance, who was standing with his shoulders against
one angle of the high oak mantelpiece, watching the rain beating against a window opposite
to him. I had no difficulty in recognising the original of that portrait which Augusta Darrell
had looked at so strangely. He was much older than when the portrait had been taken--ten years
at the least, I thought. In the picture he looked little more than twenty, and I should have
guessed him now to be on the wrong side of thirty.

He was handsome still, but the dark powerful face had a sort of rugged look, the heavy eyebrows
overshadowed the sombre black eyes, a thick fierce-looking moustache shrouded the mouth, but
could not quite conceal an expression, half cynical, half melancholy, that lurked about the
lowered corners of the full firm lips. He looked like a man whose past life held some sad or
sinful history.

I could fancy, as I looked at him, that last bitter interview with his mother, and I could
imagine how hard and cruel such a man might be under the influence of an unpardonable wrong.
Like Mrs. Darrell, I was inclined to place myself on the side of the unfortunate lovers, rather
than on that of the mother, who had been willing to sacrifice her son's happiness to her pride
of race.

We all three remained silent for some little time, Milly and I standing together in the window,
Mr. Egerton leaning against the mantelpiece, watching the rain with an absent look in his face.
He roused himself at last, as if with an effort, and came over to the window by which we stood.

'It looks rather hopeless at present,' he said; 'but I shall spin you over to Thornleigh in
no time; so you mustn't be anxious. It is at Thornleigh Manor you live, is it not?'

'Yes,' Milly answered. 'My name is Darrell, and this young lady is Miss Crofton, my very dear
friend.'

He bowed in recognition of this introduction.

'I thought as much--I mean as to your name being Darrell. I had the honour to know Mr. Darrell
very well when I was a lad, and I have a vague recollection of a small child in white frock,
who, I think, must have been yourself. I have only been home a week, or I should have done
myself the pleasure of calling on your father.'

'Papa is in Paris,' Milly answered, 'with my stepmother.'

'Ah, he has married again, I hear. One of the many changes that have come to pass since I was
last in Yorkshire.'

'Have you returned for good, Mr. Egerton?'

'For good--or for evil--who knows?' he answered, with a careless laugh. 'As to whether I stay
here so many weeks or so many years, that is a matter of supreme uncertainty. I never am in
the same mind very long together. But I am heartily sick of knocking about abroad, and I cannot
possibly find life emptier or duller here than I have found it in places that people call gay.'

'I can't fancy any one growing tired of such a place as the Priory,' said Milly.

' "Stone walls do not a prison make, nor iron bars a cage." " 'Tis in ourselves that we are
thus or thus." Cannot you fancy a man getting utterly tired of himself and his own thoughts--knowing
himself by heart, and finding the lesson a dreary one? Perhaps not. A girl's life seems all
brightness. What should such happy young creatures know of that arid waste of years that lies
beyond a man's thirtieth birthday, when his youth has not been a fortunate one? Ah, there is
a break in the sky yonder; the rain will be over presently.'

The rain did cease, as he had prophesied. The dog-cart was brought round to the door by a clumsy-looking
man in corduroy, who seemed half groom, half gardener; and Mr. Egerton drove us home; Milly
sitting next him, I at the back. His horse was very good one, and the drive only lasted a quarter
of an hour, during which time our new acquaintance talked very pleasantly to both of us.

I could not forget that Mr. Darrell had called him a bad man; but in spite of that sweeping
condemnation I could not bring myself to think of him without a certain interest.

Of course Milly and I discussed Mr. Egerton as we sat over our snug little tête-à-tête dinner,
and we were both inclined to speak of his blighted life in a pitying kind of way, and to blame
his mother's conduct, little as we knew of the details of the story. Our existences were so
quiet that this little incident made quite an event, and we were apt to date things from that
afternoon for some time afterwards.

CHAPTER VII.

A LITTLE MATCH-MAKING.

We heard nothing of Mr. Egerton for about three weeks, at the end of which time we were invited
to dine at the Rectory. The first person we saw on going into the long, low, old-fashioned
drawing-room was the master of Cumber Priory leaning against the mantelpiece in his favourite
attitude. The Rector was not in the room when we arrived, and Angus Egerton was talking to
Mrs. Collingwood, who sat in a low chair near the fire.

'Mr. Egerton has been telling me about your adventure in the wood, Milly,' Mrs. Collingwood
said, as she rose to receive us. 'I hope it will be a warning to you to be more careful in
future. I think that Cumber Wood is altogether too dangerous a place for two young ladies like
you and Miss Crofton.'

'The safest place in the world,' cried Angus Egerton. 'I shall always be at hand to come to
the ladies' assistance, and shall pray for the timely appearance of an infuriated bull, in
order that I may distinguish myself by something novel in the way of a rescue. I hear that
you are a very charming artist, Miss Darrell, and that you have done some of our oaks and beeches
the honour to immortalise them.'

There is no need for me to record all the airy empty talk of that evening. It was a very pleasant
evening. Angus Egerton had received his first lessons in the classics from the kind old Rector,
and had been almost a son of the house in the past, the girls told me. He had resumed his old
place upon his return, and seemed really fond of these friends, whom he had found ready to
welcome him warmly in spite of all rumours to his disadvantage that had floated to Thornleigh
during the years of his absence.

He was very clever, and seemed to have been everywhere, and to have seen everything worth seeing
that the world contained. He had read a great deal too, in spite of his wandering life; and
the fruit of his reading cropped up pleasantly now and then in his conversation.

There were no other guests, except an old country squire, who talked of nothing but his farming.
Milly sat next Angus Egerton; and from my place on the other side of the table I could see
how much she was interested in his talk. He did not stop long in the dining-room after we had
left, but joined us as we sat round the fire in the drawing-room, talking over the poor people
with Mrs. Collingwood and her two daughters, who were great authorities upon the question,
and held a Dorcas society once a week, of which Milly and I were members.

There was the usual music--a little playing and a little singing from the younger ladies of
the company, myself included. Milly sang an English ballad very sweetly, and Angus Egerton
stood by the piano looking down at her while she sang.

Did he fall in love with her upon this first happy evening that those two spent together? I
cannot tell; but it is certain that after that evening, he seemed to haunt us in our walks,
and, go where we would, we were always meeting him, in company with a Scottish deerhound called
Nestor, of which Milly became very fond. When we met in this half-accidental way he used to
join us in our walk for a mile or two, very often bearing us company till we were within a
few paces of Thornleigh.

These meetings, utterly accidental as they always were on our side, were a source of some perplexity
to me. I was not quite certain whether I was right in sanctioning so close an acquaintance
between Emily Darrell and the master of Cumber Priory. I knew that her father thought badly
of him. Yet, what could I do? I was not old enough to pretend to any authority over my darling,
nor had her father invested me with any; and I knew that her noble nature was worthy of all
confidence. Beyond this, I liked Angus Egerton, and was inclined to trust him. So the time
slipped away very pleasantly for all of us, and the friendship among us all three became closer
day by day.

We met Mr. Egerton very often at the Rectory, and sometimes at other houses where we visited.
He was much liked by the Thornleigh people, who had, most of them, known him in his boyhood;
and it was considered by his old friends, that, whatever his career abroad might have been,
he had begun, and was steadily pursuing, a reformed course of life. His means did not enable
him to do much, but he was doing a little towards the improvement of Cumber Priory; and his
existence there was as simple as that of the Master of Ravenswood.

I had noticed that Mrs. Collingwood did all in her power to encourage the friendship between
Milly and Mr. Egerton, and one day in the spring, after they had met a great many times at
her house, she spoke to me of her hopes quite openly.

It was a bright afternoon, and we were all strolling in the garden, after a game of croquet--the
Rector's wife and I side by side, Milly and Angus a little way in front of us.

'I think she likes him,' Mrs. Collingwood said thoughtfully.

'Everybody seems to like Mr. Egerton,' I answered.

'O yes, I know that; but I mean something more than the ordinary liking. I am so anxious that
he should marry--and marry wisely. I think I am almost as fond of him as if he were my son;
and I should be so pleased if I could be the means of bringing about a match between them.
Milly is just the girl to make a man happy, and her fortune would restore Cumber Priory to
all its old glory.'

Her fortune! The word jarred upon me. Was it her money, after all, that Angus Egerton was thinking
of when he took such pains to pursue my darling?

'I should be sorry for her to marry any one who cared for her money,' I said.

'Of course, my dear Miss Crofton; and so should I be sorry to see her throw herself away upon
any one with whom her money was a paramount consideration. But one cannot put these things
quite out of the question. I know that Angus admired her very much the first day he saw her,
and I fancy his admiration has grown into a warmer feeling since then. He has said nothing
to me upon the subject, nor I to him; for you know how silent he always is about himself. But
I cannot help wishing that such a thing might come to pass. He has one of the best names in
the North Riding, and a first-rate position as the owner of Cumber Priory. He only wants money.'

I was too young and inexperienced to take a worldly view of things, and from this moment felt
disposed to distrust Mr. Egerton. I remembered the story of his early attachment, and told
myself that a man who had loved once like that had in all probability worn out his powers of
loving.

'I don't think Mr. Darrell would approve of, or even permit, such a marriage,' I said presently.
'I know he has a very bad opinion of Mr. Egerton.'

'On what account?'

'On account of his conduct to his mother.'

'No one knows the secret of that affair except Angus himself,' answered Mrs. Collingwood. 'I
don't think any one has a right to think badly of him upon that ground. I knew Mrs. Egerton
very well. She was a proud hard woman, capable of almost anything in order to accomplish any
set purpose of her own. Up to the time when he went to Oxford Angus had been an excellent son.'

'Was it at Oxford he met the girl he wanted to marry?'

'No; it was somewhere in the west of England, where he went on a walking tour during the long
vacation.'

'He must have loved her very much, to act as he did. I should doubt his power ever to love
any one else.'

'That is quite a girl's way of thinking, my dear Miss Crofton. Depend upon it, after that kind
of stormy first love, there generally comes a better and truer feeling. Angus was little more
than a boy then. He is in the prime of manhood now, able to judge wisely, and not easily to
be caught, or he would have married in all those years abroad.'

This seemed reasonable enough; but I was vexed, nevertheless, by Mrs. Collingwood's match-making
notions, which seemed to disturb the peaceful progress of our lives. After this I looked upon
every invitation to the Rectory--where we never went without meeting Mr. Egerton--as a kind
of snare; but our visits there were always very pleasant, and I grew in time to think with
more indulgence of the Rector's wife's desire for her favourite's advantage.

In all this time Angus Egerton had in no manner betrayed the state of his feelings. If he met
us in our walks oftener than seemed possible by mere chance, there was nothing strictly lover-like
in his tone or conduct. But I have seen his face light up as he met my dear girl at these times,
and I have noticed a certain softening of his voice as he talked to her, that I never heard
on other occasions.

And she? About her feelings I had much less doubt. She tried her uttermost to hide the truth
from me, ashamed of her regard for one who had never yet professed to be more than a friend;
but I knew that she loved him. It was impossible, in the perfect companionship and confidence
of our lives, for Milly to keep this first secret of her pure young heart hidden from me. I
knew that she loved him; and I began to look forward anxiously to Mr. Darrell's return, which
would relieve me of all responsibility, and perhaps put an end to our friendship with Angus
Egerton.

CHAPTER VIII.

ON THE WATCH.

The travellers came back to Thornleigh Manor in August, when the days were breathless and sultry,
and the freshness of the foliage had already begun to fade after an unusually dry summer. Milly
and I had been very happy together, and I think we both looked forward with a vague dread to
the coming break in our lives. She loved her father as dearly as she had ever done, and longed
ardently to see him again; but she knew as well as I did that our independence must end with
his return.

'If he were coming back alone, Mary,' she said--'if that marriage were all a dream, and he
were coming back alone--how happy I should be! I know that of is own free will he would never
come between me and any wish of mine. But I don't know how he would act under his wife's influence.
You cannot imagine the power she has over him. And we shall have to begin the old false life
over again, she and I-- disliking and distrusting each other in our hearts--the daily round
of civilities and ceremonies and pretences. O Mary, you cannot think how I hate it.'

We had seen nothing of Julian Stormont during all the time of our happy solitude; but on the
day appointed for Mr. and Mrs. Darrell's return he came to Thornleigh, looking more careworn
than ever. I pitied him a little, knowing the state of his feelings about Milly, believing
indeed that he loved her with a rare intensity, and being inclined to attribute the change
in him to his disappointment upon this subject.

Milly told him how ill he was looking, and he said something about hard work and late hours,
with a little bitter laugh.

'It doesn't matter to any one whether I am well or ill, you see, Milly,' he said. 'What would
any one care if I were to drop over the side of the quay some dark night, on my way from the
office to my lodgings, after a hard day's work, and never be seen alive again?'

'How wicked it is of you to talk like that, Julian! There are plenty of people who would care--papa,
to begin with.'

'Well, I suppose my uncle William would be rather sorry. He would lose a good man of business,
and he would scarcely like going back to the counting-house, and giving himself up to all the
dry details of commerce once more.'

The travellers arrived soon after this. Mr. Darrell greeted his daughter with much tenderness;
but I noticed a kind of languor in Mrs. Darrell's embrace, very different from her reception
of Milly at that first meeting which I had witnessed more than a year before. It seemed to
me that her power over her husband was now supreme, and that she did not trouble herself to
keep up any pretence of affection for his only child.

She was dressed to perfection; and that subdued charm which was scarcely beauty, and yet stood
in place of it, attracted me to-day as it had done when we first met. She was a woman who,
I could imagine, might be more admired than many handsomer women. There was a distinction,
an originality about the pale delicate face, dark arched brows, and gray eyes--eyes which were
at times very brilliant.

She looked round her without the faintest show of interest or admiration as she loitered with
her husband on the terrace, while innumerable travelling-bags, shawls, books, newspapers, and
packages were being carried from the barouche to the house.

'How dry and burnt-up everything looks!' she said.

'Have you no better greeting than that for Thornleigh, my dear Augusta?' Mr. Darrell asked
in rather a wounded tone. 'I thought you would be pleased to see the old place again.'

'Thornleigh Manor is not a passion of mine,' she answered. 'I hope you will take a house in
town at the beginning of next year.'

She passed on into the hall, after having honoured me with the coldest possible shake-hands.
We saw no more of her until nearly dinner-time, when she came down to the drawing-room, dressed
in white, and looking deliciously pale and cool in the sultry weather. Milly had spent the
afternoon in going round the gardens and home- farm with her father, and had thoroughly enjoyed
the delight of a couple of hours alone with him. She gave him up now to Mrs. Darrell, who devoted
all her attention to him for the rest of the evening; while Julian Stormont, Milly, and I loitered
about the garden, and played a desultory game of croquet.

It was not until the next morning that Mr. Egerton's name was mentioned, although it had been
in my thoughts, and I cannot doubt in Milly's, ever since Mr. Darrell's arrival. We were in
the drawing-room after breakfast, not quite decided what to do with the day, when Mr. Darrell
came into the room dressed for a ride with his wife. He went over to the window by which Milly
was standing.

'You have quite given up riding, Ellis tells me, my dear,' he said.

'I have not cared to ride while you were away, papa, as Mary does not ride.'

'Miss Crofton might have learnt to ride; there would always be a horse at her disposal.'

'We like walking better,' Milly said, blushing a little, and fidgeting nervously with one of
the buttons on her father's coat. 'I used to feel in the way, you know, when I rode with you
and Mrs. Darrell.'

'That was your own fault, Milly,' he answered, with a displeased look.

'I suppose it was. But I think Augusta felt it too. O, by the bye, papa, I did not tell you
quite all the news when we were out together yesterday.'

'Indeed!'

'No; I forgot to mention that Mr. Egerton has come back.'

'Angus Egerton?'

'Yes; he came back last winter.'

'You never said so in your letters.'

'Didn't I? I suppose that was because I knew you were rather prejudiced against him; and one
can't explain away that kind of thing in a letter.'

'You would find it very difficult to explain away my dislike of Angus Egerton, either in or
out of a letter. Have you seen much of him?'

'A good deal. He has been at the Rectory very often when Mary and I have been invited there.
The Collingwoods are very fond of him. I am sure--I think--you will like him, papa, when you
come to see a little of him. He is going to call upon you.'

'He can come if he pleases,' Mr. Darrell answered with an indifferent air; 'I shall not be
uncivil to him. But I am rather sorry that he has made such a favourable impression upon you,
Milly.'

She was still playing with the buttons of his coat, looking downward, her dark eyes quite veiled
by their long lashes.

'I did not say that, papa,' she murmured shyly.

'But I am sure of it from your manner. Has he done anything towards the improvement of Cumber?'

'O yes; he has put new roofs to some part of the stables; and the land is in better order,
they say; and the gardens are kept nicely now.'

'Does he live alone at the Priory?'

'Quite alone, papa.'

'He must find it rather a dull business, I should think.'

'Mr. Collingwood says he is very fond of study, and that he has a wonderful collection of old
books. He is a great smoker too, I believe; he walks a good deal; and he hunted all last winter.
They say he is a tremendous rider.'

Augusta Darrell came in at this moment, ready for her ride. Her slim willowy figure looked
to great advantage in the plain tight-fitting cloth habit; and the little felt hat with its
bright scarlet feather gave a coquettish expression to her face. She tapped her husband lightly
on the arm with her riding-whip.

'Now, William, if your are quite ready.'

'My dearest, I have been waiting for the last half-hour.'

They went off to their horses. Milly followed them to the terrace, and watched them as they
rode away.

We spent the morning out-of-doors sketching, with Julian Stormont in attendance upon us. At
two o'clock we all meet at luncheon.

After luncheon Milly and I went to the drawing-room, while Mrs. Darrell and Mr. Stormont strolled
upon the terrace. My dear girl had a sort of restless manner to-day, and went from one occupation
to another, now sitting for a few minutes at the piano, playing brief snatches of pensive melody,
now taking up a book, only to throw it down again with a little weary sigh. She seated herself
at a table presently, and began to arrange the sketches in her portfolio. While she was doing
this a servant announced Mr. Egerton. She rose hurriedly, blushing as I had rarely seen her
blush before, and looking towards the open window near her, almost as if she would have liked
to make her escape from the room. It was the first time Angus Egerton had been at Thornleigh
Manor since she was a little child.

'Tell papa that Mr. Egerton is here, Filby,' she said to the servant. 'I think you will find
him in the library.'

She had recovered her self-possession in some measure by the time she came forward to shake
hands with the visitor; and in a few minutes we were talking in the usual easy friendly way.

'You see, I have lost no time in calling upon your papa, Miss Darrell,' he said presently. 

It seems, however, this less tolerable, owing to failure to recognize and even natural law, which
any man, savage and barbaric it is, just by being a man, revered and treasured.

The children, for the most part, have no respect for their parents, before they have on domain,
making them obey with great chutzpah, and if they feel like, dare
to put parents hands.

In their illnesses are not moved to compassion, before leaving with the incredible ingratitude
and left to hunger and disease, something that even with the animals
used, and out often including better be a dog than man, because they
feel sorry and remove food from the mouth to support a troop of dogs.

Perhaps he found Fr Machoni once with some of these barbarians who had to to bury the mother
of one of them deceased, who shortly before had been converted to our holy faith, and she
wanted to bury his son to a few months, because no india, even her relatives wanted to take
the job of raising him: quitósele hands after the Father and more than pay it forward and
begged asked, none moved to compassion by which was forced as to keep the child lived with
goat milk or sheep, no without incredible pain in the meantime to
see many mothers have big breasts earrings number of dogs so they
will not starve.

Celebrate their weddings the very old (if they each deserve to be called marriages, for women
tired of her husband, and he on them have openness and freedom to make other or another to
his will) not married but when they are tired of awkward, experiencing
them itself or fear or shame that the mixed nature in the pleasures
wisely forbidden to hold the line because of the genius of unbridled
lust.

It is not easy to tell how good work P. With a fellow Jesuit missionary in instruction in the principles
of divine law to people who seemed to be neither the first instinct
of nature, or what means of charity and zeal they used to make, beasts,
rational, and rational Christian.

They were the first with a hoe in hand to break ground, to handle the plow and to do everything
else that is needed in the work camps to train them to do the same.

After visiting the sick and they did with them all the offices of charity that would make a
loving mother, removing food from the mouth and support that they had identified the mercy
of the Spanish to remedy their needs.

Suffered with incredible patience their impertinence and folly continuous, hoping the good that
could draw from them. But this was the least about what worked in out of their souls, for dishonesty,
revenge, drunkenness and barbarity thousand other inherited defects in the blood, grown over the
years, and with custom converted in nature, was almost impossible
to uproot from their hearts, but such was the undeniable virtue of
the Almighty and the finesse of an apostolic zeal that little by little
began to soften the hardness of heart so stubborn and to domesticate
the barbarity of encouragement so wild.

The first fruit is seasoned with the sweat and toil of these fervorosísimos operators, were
many souls of children who are just washed in the healthy waters of holy baptism, flew with the
naive innocence stole to the eternal bliss, to take possession of that glory, that henceforth
they would enjoy the people of his nation, after the souls managed
of many adults who assaulted a fever that went on between them, willingly
changed life in the hope of eternal rest in heaven, through the holy
baptism.

One, among others, young a few years, not least in the wounds of his body, which the patience
of mind, seemed like another Job, he enlisted in the number of children
of God with great happiness and joy of his spirit, and making fervorosísimos
acts of faith, hope and charity went on this pilgrimage to the heavenly
homeland.

She wore very badly the common enemy of faith in progress as barbaric
and uncivilized nation, for That was then applied all their efforts
to stop them and suffocate the seed of the Gospel, before that is
rooted in the hearts of the barbarians.

The first half was that he used to seek the death of the missionaries who were so hard battle,
prompting them to unbelievers issued the necessary orders.

Intentáronlo them many times, and, among others, were as conspirators to kill P. Machoni.

They had been something away from people doing a dance with a great noise and clamor, and putting
wheel in the middle of a gourd, which is also art of the devil danced with them, they agreed
all night to give death to be freed at once from his zeal and rebukes.

Perhaps

the Father heard him, and leaving his ranch to learn the cause of the novelty unexpectedly, there
an India that came from the dance, though not so beside himself as
they did, they were totally drunk, said the father why her relatives
got so much noise and gave many voices.

She, who knew what they were trying, tried to cover it up with a fake smile, responding I did
not know the cause.

Missionary Temióse was not a drunk, and to address it certified and urged the India discovered
the truth.

She, fearing for this instance and the P. I knew, I discovered the
whole conspiracy who had plotted against his life.

Rancho Recogióse in offering to God his life in sacrifice for the good of souls, and was waiting
all night should come and kill him, but the Lord delivered him to other things in their service,
because the unbelievers advised by said that the Father india Known
missionary and his attempts, did not dare to give the death, fearing
they should come also then the Spanish to avenge.

Seeing the demon that had vanished this Trace, he used another, and
was introduced in the village the pernicious error that the same was
throw it to the children the water of baptism the head that their
souls leave the body, and printed so highly this deception their fantasies,
which became the Fathers love to hate and loathing, looked on with
bad heart and fled from them as sworn enemies of their property.

And gave to that heat they foolishly believe eternal, and though every day were quedárseles dead
in his arms his friends and relatives, with all that, to the prevailing
evidence of their eyes the error of understanding.

Tried ours with all his zeal fade forces that deception and mistaken persuasion encouraged the
devil to recent damage that Christianity and God, our Lord, people
look to the new believers to greater piety eyes, wanted it quickly
remedy this damage and comfort and cheer along the virtue of his servants.

If

passed this way:

Would one day P. Machoni Rancho Rancho carrying a pot of food to give it to the sick there an India
that brought the chest a boy who was now for exhaling, not could she so quickly flee and hide
her child so that the Father did not see her.

He tried it with sweet words and great kindness to mitigate the hatred of the mother and win mood,
in order to baptize the child, but all was in vain, because the devil
talking by the mouth of a woman around him, not least because of the
infidelity that lust, and vomiting against Holy Missionary and against
that many insults and profanity Sacramento say how many insane in
the most ardent of his fury, calling the mother to allow her to wash
son in the holy waters of baptism, for what would happen to another
mother ill-advised, to offer his son to be baptized, as the child
was dropped on holy water, which out of this life.

India was the good-natured and not easily distort the trial left with nonsense crazy of his own, let
alone the false apprehension that the holy baptism was tósigo to take life, met so many old Spanish,
with gray hair, who had been baptized; so willingly gave the child to the Father, who, filled with
a generous and humble trust in God, prayed to His Majesty, and begged off that pregnancy to
Santa Fe, since it would cost more than a hint of his will, then returned to San Francisco Xavier,
asking him to look with eyes of mercy to those blind heathen, and they both sought to honor
God reached His Majesty to that holy Sacrament not only serve to rid the this innocent soul from
the bondage of the devil, but for deliverance from disease body, and offered in appreciation
of that benefit, which expected to receive, would call Francisco
Xavier.

Heaven heard the fervent prayers of his servant: for after the child was baptized, was sound of their
disease.

The same thing happened to a girl, and marriageable, whom for being all cold and stiff, the
crying their dead relatives, but after she was baptized, by large
bodies with which they requested, and upon his return from a deep
sleep, he came to himself and to life.

Whereupon, little by little ceased in the false fear that people, and mothers gave their children
to contention for that might be washed in the holy waters of baptism and healthy.

Howled with rage the demon vanished seeing their entanglements, so put all your effort to tarnish
the splendor of the smooth proceedings of one of the missionaries, with a thousand reproach
slander by some apostates who were very way that prevented them from satisfying appetite of the
flesh, with all the most awkward and dirty pleasures of sense, but in spite yours, emerged triumphant
innocence of manners and fervor of apostolic life of this good Father and was then forced the
devil to safe conduct to leave the Holy Gospel in the very broad provinces of Chaco, where
the Jesuits not only seek the conversion of the infidels, but the reform of the Spanish and Indians,
coming to confess and preach the strong Spanish that is where we like St. Joseph and Valbuena,
and accompanied the soldiers when ranging from cities to hold the barbarians who continually invade
that province, the serve as chaplains, exposing the dangers and risks
of loss of life, not have their own features and at the same time
seeking to reduce those who prey on the Spanish and baptize infants.

In these companies had worked nine years gloriously P. Machoni, when the new government of 1719
came P. designated by secretary Provincial Joseph de Aguirre, for
which because it was necessary to entrust the care of that reduction
to P. Joaquin Yegros, other two fellow Jesuits.

The new Provincial Secretary sought to encourage all efforts to convert new infidels, to cooperate
as ever the governor of the province D. Esteban de Urizar.

Year, then, in 1719, in an entry that the infidels were residents of the city San Miguel de Tucumán,
discovered a new river which was considered then to be the Pilcomayo; to the banks of the river
knew many white people lived, they were by the Spanish.

With this news the governor determined that next year were to fully discover this river thirds
of the province of Tucumán, asking for a chaplain to one of the Fathers who were in the Reduction
of San Esteban.

Then Concediólo P. Provincial, and hopeful that this discovery would much glory to God, determined
by the Paraguay River entered through the Pilcomayo which empties into that river, some Missionaries
of the Guarani, in precise order that no stop to reduce any nation and just winning the will of
the natives will penetrate to meet with the Spanish soldiers who
entered the province of Tucumán, or they the site of the Chiriguanos.

All this was preventing two purposes: first, he discovered the land and the river, could enter
the Tucuman, Paraguay and Frontera de Santa Fe, shaking hands with
everyone of these provinces to conquer the Chaco, which achieved the
conversion of many souls.

The second, open shortest path here for the Chiquitos missions, which always is highly desired
to avoid the short distance to the path of Tarija, because Zamucos presumed that were very close
to the Chaco and the Pilcomayo, and there also On this occasion entered
a Jesuit to come to find others.

He noted, therefore, the P. Provincial enter the Pilcomayo river mouth to the PP. Gabriel Lucas
Patiño Rodríguez, both born in the city of Asunción, and at the time
Missionaries of Guarani, Paraguay's college and sent his brother Bartolomé
de Niebla, Andalucia, and donated to a Portuguese named Faustino Correa,
with some Guarani Indians, so that if Parents must defend the invasion
of infidels.

By Zamucos Chiquitos Indians came in with some PP. Philip Smith and Augustine Castañares.

The province of Tucuman were unable to find Pilcomayo and finally
found the Tucumaneses discovered by the year of 1719 could not be
that river, as this is small and large Pilcomayo.

The Chiquitos, having walked the Zamucos, where it is judged to fall
into the river, never could find him.

Those who entered the mouth of the Pilcomayo were on a ship and some boats, walked the river,
always at different directions, by repeated laps running: at first found some traces of Indians,
but did not see them.

And walked about eighty miles, partly along the river, partly because
of gaps, because there are many the bank of the river, which, when
low river, remain divided about him and made ponds; but when it grows,
the whole campaign is a sea of ​​water, because they incorporate with
him.

These eighty leagues recognized that the mother of the river was not so deep that could navigate
for him the ship without manifest danger of running aground, which
determined by P. Patiño pass in the boats with his brother Fog three
Spanish and thirty-four Indians to record what remaining to achieve
the end of business, leaving in the meantime in the boat to Father
Luke Rodriguez, donated and to the other people to wait.

They came sailing the two boats and walked another three hundred leagues, in which several parties
were Indians of various nations, already confined to Chiriguaná.

Finally came to a nation not known, which seemed good-natured Indians, and were have beautiful faces
and good stature as the white Indian, Spanish appeared, they had brood mares and sheep, whose
wool fabrics make great, the horses were not number. The fertile soil in which crops are the
fruits of the country.

Jumped ashore and gave the natives many donecillos they appreciate
and thus they show much affection, who conceived hopes of reducing
later easily.

But some tuffs and Mocovíes that lay between them soured these hopes, because talking to the
Indians, incited them against us, plotting a treacherous betrayal their lives.

They were there for peace each other, in the case with many strokes as long as was necessary
to rest, when, having gone three of our Indians to cut firewood,
they attacked the Toba and Mocovíes treacherous with the Indians of
that nation, killed them both with arrows and the other badly wounded,
so he died a few days away.

The others retired to the boats that cover the Father sent some cow hides resist.

Came along to ours over 600 infidels, to the boats by shooting a storm
of arrows so thick, that looked like a swarm of locusts, but none
were harmed, because they were resistant to the skins, giving off
the arrows, and even though it has that P. Patiño was twice found
in the bow to the shooting, although all parts were falling arrows,
none touched him.

Seeing this attempted to withdraw from the furies of those barbarians, whose treachery undid
so far and hopes dashed able to penetrate the Chaco, where it was expected, as I said, reduce
many nations.

They returned, for no other fruit, with much work retracing the path of four leagues which until
then had sailed.

But back to the Reduction of San Esteban, the same year of 1721, there
were in it many families.

Kindled by this time a smallpox pestecilla, that died after two.

The others charged so scared to death that threatened them smallpox, the same day that those two
were killed, left to neglect our own and everyone fled least eighteen
adults and twenty boys.

Then it warned Fr. Joaquin Lorenzo Fanlo Yegros and mounted their horses in monitoring, and
went to reach for a few hills to Salta, but still much the thickness forest, and roughness
of the mountains, were removed, and followed on foot, with incredible
fatigue, because they fled down the right path, but always obliquely,
because they said so they could not go fever, tired of the bush and
turns.

Such is its enormity.

Parents were powerless before poderles to catch, and turning to his
people to care for those who had been sick, they sent after the fugitives
to two Indians carried with them to stop because of the eighteen adults
were killed fourteen, whom attended with great love, without fear
of contagion, and all other ill.

The two Indians found some miles
away to the fugitives, and even if they did, only they could be reduced
to come down to where they were the Parents.

They sought to roll back the reduction, but then managed only hope they finished the fever again.
Therefore, leaving them there to Parents became people to take care of those who remained,
most patients, of whom died soon fourteen adults, whom attended with great zeal and charity, to
give burial by their own hands.

The fugitives returned after some time his people, by the inquiries of our own, they always have
to work here, gloriously, the innate barbarism of all these nations,
as known by the referral.

At present this town is in extreme danger of destruction because
Mocovíes and Tovas, so far have been bridled by the value of the governor
of the province of Tucumán, main promoter of this reduction is coming
back to raise his head, and having slain the soldiers of Fort St.
Joseph and had the audacity to lay siege to Valbuena, it is feared
give in this town of San Esteban and destroy you for being helpless,
well why not Jesuit lost hope of doing much fruit in the Chaco, fulfilling
the prophecy of San Francisco Solano first apostle, who preached the
gospel to the Lules, and who no tradition in the land, who, having
predicted the ruin of the city of ETEC, which more than thirty years
has happened, also predicted that these Indians would become the Chaco.

Our
Lord wants to fulfill this prophecy as soon as possible. I cannot stand between you and your
love, dear--I know that.'

'But you can make me very unhappy by your doubts, Mary,' she answered.

I kissed her, and did my best to console her; but she was not easily to be comforted, and left
me in a half-sorrowful, half-angry mood. I had disappointed her, she told me--she had felt
so sure of my sympathy; and instead of sharing her happiness, I had made her miserable by my
fanciful doubts and gloomy forebodings. After she had gone, I sat by the window for a long
time, thinking of her disconsolately, and feeling myself very guilty. But I had a fixed conviction
that Mr. Darrell would refuse to receive Angus Egerton as his daughter's suitor, and that the
course of this love-affair was not destined to be a smooth one.

The result proved that I had been right. Mr. Egerton had a long interview with Mr. Darrell
in the library next morning, during which his proposal was most firmly rejected. Milly and
I knew that he was in the house, and my poor girl walked up and down our sitting-room with
nervously clasped hands and an ashy pale face all the time those two were together down-stairs.

She turned to me with a little piteous look when she heard Angus Egerton ride away from the
front of the house.

'O Mary, what is my fate to be?' she asked. 'I think he has been rejected. I do not think he
would have gone away without seeing me if the interview had ended happily.'

A servant came to summon us both to the library. We went down together, Milly's cold hand clasped
in mine.

Mr. Darrell was not alone. His wife was sitting with her back to the window, very pale, and
with an angry brightness in her eyes.

'Sit down, Miss Crofton,' Mr. Darrell said very coldly; 'and you, Milly, come here.'

She went towards him with a slow faltering step, and sank down into the chair to which he pointed,
looking at him all the time in an eager beseeching way that I think must have gone to his heart.
He was standing with his back to the empty fireplace, and remained standing throughout the
interview.

'I think you know that I love you, Milly,' he began, 'and that your happiness is the chief
desire of my mind.'

'I'm sure of that, papa.'

'And yet you have deceived me.'

'Deceived you? O papa, in what way?'

'By encouraging the hopes of a man whom you must have known I would never receive as your husband;
by suffering your feelings to become engaged, without one word of warning to me, and in a manner
that you must have known could not fail to be most obnoxious to me.'

'O papa, I did not know; it was only yesterday that Mr. Egerton spoke for the first time. There
has been nothing hidden from you.'

'Nothing? Do you call your intimate acquaintance with this man nothing? He may have delayed
any actual declaration until my return-- with an artful appearance of consideration for me;
but some kind of love-affair must have been going on between you all the time.'

'No, indeed, papa; until yesterday there was never anything but the most ordinary acquaintance.
Mary knows--'

'Pray don't appeal to Miss Crofton,' her father interrupted sternly. 'Miss Crofton has done
very wrong in encouraging this affair. Miss Crofton heard my opinion of Angus Egerton a long
time ago.'

'Mary has done nothing to encourage our acquaintance. It has been altogether a matter of accident
from first to last. What have you said to Mr. Egerton, papa? Tell me at once, please.'

She said this with a quiet firmness, looking bravely up at him all the while.

'I have told him that nothing would induce me to consent to such a marriage. I have forbidden
him ever to see you again.'

'That seems very hard, papa.'

'I thought you knew my opinion of Mr. Egerton.'

'It would change if you knew more of him.'

'Never. I might like him very well as a member of society; I could never approve of him as
a son-in-law. Besides, I have other views for you--long-cherished views--which I hope you will
not disappoint.'

'I don't know what you mean by that, papa; but I know that I can never marry any one except
Mr. Egerton. I may never marry at all, if you refuse to change your decision upon this subject;
but I am quite sure I shall never be the wife of any one else.'

Her father looked at her angrily. That hard expression about the lower part of the face, which
I had noticed in his portrait and in himself from the very first, was intensified to-day. He
looked a stern resolute man, whose will was not to be moved by a daughter's pleading.

'We shall see about that by and by,' he said. 'I am not going to have my plans defeated by
a girl's folly. I have been a very indulgent father, but I am not a weak or yielding one. You
will have to obey me, Milly, or you will find yourself a substantial sufferer by and by.'

'If you mean that you will disinherit me, papa, I am quite willing that you should do that,'
Milly answered resolutely. 'Perhaps you think Mr. Egerton cares for my fortune. Put him to
the test, papa. Tell him that you will give me nothing, and that be may take me on that condition.'

Augusta Darrell turned upon her stepdaughter with a sudden look in her face that was almost
like a flame.

'Do you think him so disinterested?' she asked. 'Have you such supreme confidence in his affection?'

'Perfect confidence.'

'And you do not believe that mercenary considerations have any weight with him? You do not
think that he is eager to repair his shattered fortunes? You think him all truth and devotion?
He, a blasé man of the world, of three-and-thirty; a man who has outlived the possibility of
anything like a real attachment; a man who lavished his whole stock of feeling upon the one
attachment of his youth.'

She said all this very quietly, but with a suppressed bitterness. I think it needed all her
powers of restraint to keep her from some passionate outburst that would have betrayed the
secret of her life. I was now more than ever convinced that she had known Angus Egerton in
the past, and that she had loved him.

'You see, I am not afraid of his being put to the test,' Milly said proudly. 'I know he loved
some one very dearly, a long time ago. He spoke of that yesterday. He told me that his old
love had died out of his heart years ago.'

'He told you a lie,' cried Mrs. Darrell. 'Such things never die. They sleep, perhaps--like
the creatures that hide themselves in the ground and lie torpid all the winter--but with one
breath of the past they flame into life again.'

'I am not going to make any such foolish trial of your lover's faith, Milly,' said Mr. Darrell.
'Whether your fortune is or is not a paramount consideration with him can make no possible
difference in my decision. Nothing will ever induce me to consent to your marrying him. Of
course, if you choose to defy me, you are of age and your own mistress; but on the day that
makes you Angus Egerton's wife you will cease to be my daughter.'

'Papa,' cried Milly, 'you will break my heart.'

'Nonsense, child; hearts are not easily broken. Let me hear no more of this unfortunate business.
I have spoken to you very plainly, in order that there might be no chance of misunderstanding
between us; and I rely upon your honour that there shall be no clandestine meeting between
you and Angus Egerton in the future. I look to you, Miss Crofton, also, and shall hold you
answerable for any accidental encounters out walking.'

'You need not be afraid, papa,' Milly answered disconsolately. 'I daresay Mr. Egerton will
leave Yorkshire, as he spoke of doing yesterday.'

'I hope he may,' said Mr. Darrell.

Milly rose to leave the room. Half-way towards the door she stopped, and turned her white despairing
face towards her father with a hopeless look.

'I shall obey you, papa,' she said. 'I could not bear to forfeit your love, even for his sake.
But I think you will break my heart.'

Mr. Darrell went over to her and kissed her.

'I am acting best for your ultimate happiness, Milly, be sure of that,' he said in a kinder
tone than he had used before. 'There, my love, go and be happy with Miss Crofton, and let us
all agree to forget this business as quickly as possible.'

This was our dismissal. We went back to Milly's pretty sitting-room, where the sun was shining
and the warm summer air blowing on birds and flowers, and books and drawing materials, and
all the airy trifles that had made our lives pleasant to us until that hour. Milly sat on a
low stool at my feet, and buried her face in my lap, refusing all comfort. She sat like this
for about an hour, weeping silently, and then rose suddenly and wiped the tears from her pale face.

'I am not going to lead you a miserable life about this, Mary,' she said. 'We will never speak
of it after to-day. And I will try to do my duty to papa, and bear my life without that new
happiness, which made it seem so bright. Do you think Mr. Egerton will feel the disappointment
very much, Mary?'

'He cannot help feeling it, dear, if he loves you--as I believe he does.'

'And we might have been so happy together! I was dreaming of Cumber Priory all last night.
I thought it had been restored with some of my money, and that the old house was full of life
and brightness. Will he go away, do you think, Mary?'

'I should think it very likely.'

'And I shall never see him any more. I could not forfeit papa's love, Mary.'

'It would be a hard thing if you were to do that for the sake of a stranger, dear.'

'No, no, Mary; he is not a stranger to me; Angus Egerton is not a stranger. I know that he
is noble and good. But my father was all the world to me a year ago. I could not do without
his love. I must obey him.'

'Believe me, dear, it will be wisest and best to do so. You cannot tell what changes may come
to pass in the future. Obedience will make you very dear to your father; and the time may come
in which he will think better of Mr. Egerton.'

'O Mary, if I could hope that!'

'Hope for everything, dear, if you do your duty.'

She grew a little more cheerful after this, and met her father at diner with quite a placid
face, though it was still very pale. Mrs. Darrell looked at her wonderingly, and with a half-contemptuous
expression, I thought, as if this passion of her step-daughter's seemed to her a very poor
thing, after all.

Before the week was out, we heard that Mr. Egerton had left Yorkshire. We did not go to the
Pensildon fête. Milly had a cold and kept her room, much to the regret of the Miss Collingwoods,
who called every day to inquire about her. She made this cold--which was really a very slight
affair--an excuse for a week's solitude, and at the end of that time reappeared among us with
no trace of her secret sorrow. It was only I, who was always with her, and knew her to the
core of her heart, who could have told how hard a blow that disappointment had been, and how
much it cost her to bear it so quietly.

CHAPTER X.

CHANGES AT THORNLEIGH.

The autumn and the early winter passed monotonously enough. There was a good deal of company
at Thornleigh Manor at first, for Mrs. Darrell hated solitude; but after a little time she
grew tired of the people her husband knew, and the dinners and garden parties became less frequent.
I had found out, very soon after her return, that she was not happy--that this easy prosperous
life was in some manner a burden to her. It was only in her husband's presence that she made
any pretence of being pleased or interested in things. With him she was always the same--always
deferential, affectionate, and attentive; while he, on his side, was the devoted slave of her
every whim and wish.

She was not unkind to Milly, but those two seemed instinctively to avoid each other.

The winter brought trouble to Thornleigh Manor. It was well for Milly that she had tried to
do her duty to her father, and had submitted herself patiently to his will. About a fortnight
before Christmas Mr. Darrell went to North Shields to make his annual investigation of the
wharves and warehouses, and to take a kind of review of the year's business. He never returned
alive. He was seized with an apoplectic fit in the office, and carried to his hotel speechless.
His wife and Milly were summoned by a telegraphic message, and started for Shields by the first
train that could convey them there; but they were too late. He expired an hour before their
arrival.

I need not dwell upon the details of that sad time. Milly felt the blow severely; and it was
long before I saw her smile, after that dark December day on which the fatal summons came.
She had lost much of her joyousness and brightness after the disappointment about Angus Egerton,
and this new sorrow quite crushed her.

They brought Mr. Darrell's remains to Thornleigh, and he was buried in the family vault under
the noble old church, where his father and mother, his first wife, and a son who died in infancy
had been buried before him. He had been very popular in the neighbourhood, and was sincerely
regretted by all who had known him.

Julius Stormont was chief-mourner at the unpretentious funeral. He seemed much affected by
his uncle's death; and his manner towards his cousin had an unusual gentleness.

I was present at the reading of the will, which took place in the dining-room immediately after
the funeral. Mrs. Darrell, Milly, Mr. Stormont, myself, and the family lawyer were the only
persons assembled in the spacious room, which had a dreary look without the chief of the household.

The will had been made a few months after Mr. Darrell's second marriage. It was very simple
in its wording. To Julian Stormont he left a sum of five thousand pounds, to be paid out his
funded property; all the rest of this property, with the sum to be realised by the sale of
the business at North Shields and its belongings--an amount likely to be very large--was to
be divided equally between Mrs. Darrell and her stepdaughter. Thornleigh Manor was left to
Mrs. Darrell for her life, but was to revert to Milly, or Milly's heirs, at her death; and
Milly was to be entitled to occupy her old home until her marriage.

In the event of Milly's dying unmarried, her share of the funded property was to be divided
equally between Mrs. Darrell and Julian Stormont, and in this case the Thornleigh estate was
to revert to Julian Stormont after the death of Mrs. Darrell. The executors to the will were
Mr. Foreman the lawyer and Mrs. Darrell.

Milly's position was now one of complete independence. Mr. Foreman told her that after the
sale of the iron-works she would have an income of something like four thousand a year. She
had been of age for more than six months, and there was no one to come between her and perfect
independence.

Knowing this, I felt that it was more than probable Mr. Egerton would speedily return to renew
his suit; and I had little doubt that it would be successful. I knew how well Milly loved him;
and now that her father was gone she could have no motive for refusing him.

'You will stay with me, won't you, Mary?' she said to me as we sat by the fire in mournful
silence that afternoon. 'You are my only comfort now, dear. I suppose I shall remain here--for
some time, at any rate. Augusta spoke to me very graciously, and begged that I would make this
my home, according to my father's wish. We should not interfere with each other in any way,
she said, and it was indeed more than probable she would go on the Continent with her maid
early in the spring, and leave me sole mistress of Thornleigh. She doubted if she could ever
endure the place now, she said. She is not like me, Mary. I shall always have a melancholy
love for the house in which I have lived so happily with my father.'

So I remained with my dear girl, and life at Thornleigh Manor glided by in a quiet melancholy
fashion. If Mrs. Darrell grieved for her dead husband, her sorrow was of a cold tearless kind;
but she kept her own rooms a good deal, and we did not see much of her. The Collingwoods were
full of sympathy for their 'darling Milly,' and their affection had some cheering influence
upon her mind. From them she heard occasionally of Mr. Egerton, who was travelling in the wildest
regions of Northern Europe. She very rarely spoke of him herself at this time; and once when
I mentioned his name she checked me reproachfully.

'Don't speak about him, Mary,' she said; 'I don't want to think of him. It seems like a kind
of treason against papa. It seems like taking advantage of my dear father's death.'

'Would you refuse to marry him, Milly, if he were to come back to you, now that you are your
own mistress?'

'I don't know that, dear. I think I love him too much to do that. And yet it would seem like
a sin against my father.'

The spring months passed, and Milly brightened a little as the days went by. She spent a deal
of time amongst the poor; and I think her devotion to that duty helped her to put aside her
sorrow more than anything else could have done. I was always with her, sharing in all her work;
and I do not believe she had a thought hidden from me at this time.

Mrs. Darrell had not gone abroad yet. She lived a useless, listless life, doing nothing, and
caring for nothing, as it seemed. More than once she made preparations for her departure, and
then changed her mind at the last moment.

Late in June we heard of Mr. Egerton's return to Cumber; and a few days after that he came
to Thornleigh. Mrs. Darrell was in her own room, Milly and I alone in the drawing-room, when
he called. My poor girl turned very pale, and the tears came into her eyes as she and Angus
Egerton met. He spoke of her loss with extreme delicacy, and was full of tender sympathy. He
had news to tell her of himself. A distant relation of his mother's had died lately, leaving
him six thousand a year. He had come back to restore Cumber to its old splendour, and to take
his proper place in the county.

While they were talking together in low confidential tones, not at all embarrassed by my presence,
Mrs. Darrell came into the room. She was paler than usual; but there was an animation in her
face that had not been there for a long time. She received Mr. Egerton very graciously, and
insisted upon his staying to dinner.

The evening passed very pleasantly. I had never seen Augusta Darrell so agreeable, so fascinating,
as she was that night. She touched the piano for the first time since her husband's death,
and sang and played with all her old fire, keeping Angus Egerton a prisoner by the side of
the piano. Hers was not music to be heard with indifference by the coldest ear.

He came again very soon, and came often. The restorations at Cumber had begun, and he insisted
on our driving over to see what he was going to do. We went in compliance with this wish, and
I could not but observe how anxiously he questioned Milly as to her opinion of the alterations,
and how eagerly he sought for suggestions as to the arrangement and decoration of the different
rooms. We spent some hours in this inspection, and stayed to luncheon, in the noble old tapestried
drawing-room.

It was not very long before Mr. Egerton had renewed his suit, and had been accepted. Had Mr.
Darrell lived, the altered circumstances of the suitor would, in all probability, have made
some alteration in his ideas upon this subject. He could no longer have supposed Angus Egerton
influenced by mercenary feelings.

My darling seemed perfectly happy in her engagement, and I shared her happiness. I was always
to live with her, she said, at Cumber as well as at Thornleigh. She had told Angus this, and
he was pleased that it should be so. I thought that she would have no need of me in her wedded
days, and that this loving fancy of hers was not likely to be realised; but I allowed her to
cherish it--time enough for our parting when it needs must come. My youth had been brightened
by her love; and I should be brave enough to face the world alone when she began her new life,
assured that in my day of trouble I should always find a haven in her affection.

They were to be married in the following spring. Mr. Egerton had pleaded hard for an earlier
date; but Milly would not diminish her year of mourning for her father, and he was fain to
submit. The appointed time was advanced from April to February. He was to take his young wife
abroad, and to show her all those scenes in which his wandering life had been spent; and then
they were to return to Cumber, and Milly was to begin her career as the wife of a country squire.

Julian Stormont came to Thornleigh, and heard of the engagement from Mrs. Darrell. He still
occupied his old position in the business at North Shields, which had been bought by a great
capitalist in the iron way. He received the news of Milly's betrothal very quietly; but he
proffered her no congratulations upon the subject. I happened to be on the terrace alone with
him one morning during his stay, waiting for Milly to join me, when he spoke to me about this
business.

'So my cousin is going to throw herself away upon that man?' he said.

'You must not call it throwing herself away, Mr. Stormont,' I answered; 'Mr. Egerton is devoted
to your cousin, and the change in his circumstances makes him a very good match for her.'

'The change in his circumstances has not changed the man,' he returned in an angry tone. 'No
good can come of such a marriage.'

'You have no right to say that, Mr. Stormont.'

'I have the right given me by conviction. A happy marriage!--no, it will not be a happy marriage,
be sure of that!'

He said this with a vindictive look that startled me, well as I knew that he could not feel
very kindly towards Milly's lover. The words might mean little, but to me they sounded like
a threat.

CHAPTER XI.

DANGER.

The summer that year was a divine one, and we spent the greater part of our lives out of doors,
driving, walking, sitting about the garden sometimes until long after dark. It was weather
in which it was a kind of treason against Nature to waste an hour in the house.

We went very often for long rambles in Cumber Wood, winding up with an afternoon tea-drinking
in the little study at the Priory--a home- like unceremonious entertainment which Milly delighted
in. She used to seem to me on those occasions like some happy child playing at being mistress
of the house.

Augusta Darrell was almost always with us. I was sorely puzzled and perplexed by her conduct
at this time. It seemed to be all that a kind stepmother's could be. Her old indifferent air
had quite vanished; she was more cordial, more affectionately interested in Milly's happiness
than I had supposed it possible she could be. The girl was completely melted by the change
in her manner, and responded to this new warmth with artless confidence in its reality.

I remembered all I had seen and all I had suspected, and I could not bring myself to believe
implicitly in Milly's stepmother. Cursed be that in the labyrinth artificial
societies have overthrown nature to put in place the pedantry and founded the citadel of lying
on a pile of books amazacotados of nonsense! ... Do not laugh. "

- He's crazy - thought Amparo, and continued to read:

"My good friend
is determined to heal completely.

The first part of medicine has not been ineffective, but now comes the second, Torment mine,
the second, more fierce and bitter part. But I have sworn to obey, and for me not to be. I am determined
to get to the end, idly surrender to idiocy, to see if it, says Nones, my salvation comes
social and spiritual. Is a good example that follows, and rejoice, for want of sight. Nones writes
me that has got my little square for the Philippines and I have, to the long travel, which I
think a trip to another world. If escorted, how happy! But I alone, and muérame than once.

"I do not know yet when to go out, but will be soon.

"Between my sister and I arranged Nones passenger spending and the rest you need. From this I planted
in Alicante to go next to Marseille. This is forced, final, irrevocable. It is also like taking
a stab, but I give it, and see where and how they rose. Imprudently to disobey my friend to give
you this parting. Do not say anything if you see it, and get my last goodbye. Keep me compassion,
as no other feeling. If you get a nun, pray for me; Consecrate two
or three tears telling me from the dead, and I ask God to forgive me.

"

The letter did not say more. Among those messy jumble of concepts, typical of a madman, with
mixture of slapstick and a wise idea, a fact underscored happy. Dispensed under all for no
more than the fact. It would be leaving for good! "Pray for me, telling me among the dead, "the
letter said. This statement declared dead and buried forever that horrible past, and the serious problem
is solved naturally flat, without scandal ... Joy vivid flooded the
soul of the Empress.

Thank God for this unexpected incident, saying to himself: "It goes, it's all over! God paves
the way me and I have nothing to do for me. "

The idea of ​​the remoteness of the danger cooled his courage emboldened
by confession and willing for a new confession.

The weakness, recovering momentarily lost his empire, settled with pride at that naive to be not
born to tackle life, but to receive as it under the circumstances.

The postponement of the danger brought the urgency of the remedy and
not, perhaps, perhaps useless.

The strength of the penitent fainted, and the distaste and the difficulties of declaring their
future bitter spirit.

He agreed to break this temporary solution that offered the Providence, and was reluctant to
procure strict and secure itself.

"That is what I said is no doubt - he thought - but I think it does
not run so fast.

There easy to devise the terms in which I have to tell. "

He was delivering the letter to the embers of the fire, when the bell announced a Knight. He entered
and sat opposite each other. Empress watched her lover, and only with thought that he had to confess
to blushing. What a shame! The impetus of that morning, where were
they?

And carried away the easy course of a conversation insipid love, was forgotten the mandate
of the good priest. At times bustled his conscience, but soon the same awareness, Warm yourself
is sprawling on a bed of roses. Notably, both by temperament lovers, his dialogue is interwoven
the spirituality of this occasion with practical ideas and insights on the most routine of life.

The greatest happiness of the world was, according to Knight, in which two characters sip your
own harmony and to tell everyone: "I like what you !...». When he (Augustine) the knew, had
to feel very great sadness, thinking how beautiful it would be to treasure he ... When she
met feel like they gave him mourn, thinking that a man of such items
could not be its owner ... Because she (Amparo) was worthless, it
was a poor girl who if had any merit was to have a heart inclined
to all good, and love to work ... The things of the world, which sometimes
seem ready for everything to go contrary to the natural and against
the desire of our hearts, that time had been fixed for good, for harmony
... How good was God! He also had passion to work, and if you do not
distract love and wedding preparations, it would be boring. As married,
would start a business. I was a weak fool in those days, and I took the business to heart bitterly enough,
God knows; but the lesson was a useful one, and it served its turn. I have never trusted myself
to love any woman since that day, till I met the pure young creature who is to be my wife.
Her truth is above all doubt; she will not sell her birthright for a mess of pottage.'

'The mess of pottage was not for me, Angus. It was my father's bargain, not mine. I was told
that you had done with me--that you had never meant to marry me. Yes, Angus, your mother told
me that with her own lips--told me that she interfered to save me from misery and dishonour.
And then I was hurried off to a cheap French convent, to learn to provide for myself. A couple
of years' schooling was the price I received for my broken heart. That was what your mother
called making me a lady. I think I should have gone mad in those two dreary years, if it had
not been for my passionate love of music. I gave myself up to that with my whole soul; my heart
was dead; and they told me I made more progress in two years than other girls made in six.
I had nothing else to live for.'

'Except the hope of a rich husband,' said Mr. Egerton, with a sneer.

'O God, how cruel a man can to be a woman he has once loved!' cried Mrs. Darrell passionately.
'Yes, I did marry a rich man, Angus; but I never schemed or tried to win him. The chance came
to me without a hope or a thought of mine. It was the chance of rescue from the dreariest life
of drudgery that a poor dependent creature ever lived, and I took it. But I have never forgotten
you, Angus Egerton, not for one hour of my life.'

'I am sorry you should have taken the trouble to remember me,' he answered very coldly. 'For
some years of my life I made it my chief business to forget you, and all the pain connected
with our acquaintance; and having succeeded in doing that, it seems a pity that we should disturb
the stagnant waters of that dead lake which men call the past.'

'Would to God that we had never met again!' she said.

'I can quite echo that aspiration, if we are likely to have many such scenes as this.'

'Cruel--cruel!' she muttered. 'O Angus, I have been so patient! I have clung to hope in the
face of despair. When my husband died I fancied your old love would reawaken. How can such
things die? I thought it was to me you would come back--to me, whom you once loved so passionately--not
to that girl. You came back to her, and still I was patient. I set myself against her, to win
back your love. Yes, Angus, I hoped to do that till very lately. And then I began to see that
it was all useless. She is younger and handsomer than I.'

'She is better than you, Augusta. It was not her beauty that won me, but something nobler and
rarer than beauty: it was her perfect nature. The more faulty we are ourselves, the more fondly
we cling to a good woman. But I don't want to say hard things, Augusta. Pray let us put all
this folly aside at once and for ever. You took your course in the past, and it has landed
you in a very prosperous position. Let me take mine in the present, and let us be friends,
if possible.'

'You know that it is not possible. We must be all the world to each other, or the bitterest
enemies.'

'I shall never be your enemy, Mrs. Darrell.'

'But I am yours; yes, I am yours from this night, and hers. You think I can look on tamely,
and see you devoted to that girl! I have only been playing a part. I thought it was in my power
to win you back.'

All this was said with a kind of passionate recklessness, as if the speaker, having suddenly
thrown off her mask, scarcely cared how utterly she degraded herself.

'Good-night, Mrs. Darrell. You will think of these things more wisely to-morrow. Let us be
civil to each other, at least, while circumstances bring us together; and for God's sake be
kind to your stepdaughter! Would he who was dying? There are deaths
that seem resurrections in the hope that involve funeral in horror ... The door was open.
Amparo entered step by step, fearing to find strange faces, and reached that room, crowded
with furniture before and now almost empty ... At first sight casting to see that there had
been the pawnbroker.

He gave the girl a few steps inside the room and stood waiting for someone to come out. Felt
movement and voices in the interior of the house. Suddenly he appeared. I was so transformed
that hardly knew him at first sight, for he had grown a beard, which was thick, strong and
curly, and the life of the field had been effective and rapid health agent that rude nature.
The face was full of vigor, and his eyes had all the brightness the best of times. He wore brown
cloth jacket and hat on his head skin. Both clothes hung down so well that it almost beautiful.
Rather than a man in disguise, was a man who had dropped his disguise, appearing in his own
right side. Seeing to Amparito was delighted, but certainly something
happened that bothered him to express his satisfaction.

"Already here - he said quietly -. I expected ... Glad I have ...
It's your fault.

Talk now and I can understand your ... What, do you wonder at my
figure?

I have the look of most atrocious barbarian you've seen in your life.
Am I afraid?

".

- Fear not exactly ... but ...

- If you are shaking ... Be still, I do not like people ... Sit and Stay there.

He left quickly and went back a little while to rummage in a drawer
of the dresser.

Three or four times she saw him enter and exit Amparo wearing or bringing something and did
not succeed to explain the reason for these trips.

"Excuse me - said in one of those appearances, taking out a blanket and tearing it into strips
-. By coming here I found the poor Celedonia so lost his rheumatism, which I think that we will
...».

Then clearly human groans were heard, announcing brightly pain.

"Poor girl - said Polo -. I have not wanted to send her to hospital. Who is to care for her
if I do not care? ".

At the time she was alone, Amparo thought it
prudent to close the door of the house because her open, we considered
sold in the mansion of sadness, fear and pain.

"Here I am again -
that said, reappearing in the room with a handful of cotton left on
the dresser -. Unable to move. I had to give it a spin on the bed.
I I give the medicine ... Refuses to take anything, as I do not give
it. We also put bands in the knees and ointments and poultices ...
Last night I have not slept a wink. Not a moment stopped screaming
and calling me. Two days ago I arrived, and here I am without a moment's
rest. But I'm strong, very strong ... See ...».

To demonstrate his
strength, Amparo grabbed her waist before she could stop and lifted
like a feather.
One has feverish fancies sometimes--at least I have; and I preferred being out in the rain
to not being out at all. Good-night.'

She gave me a haughty nod, and ran up-stairs with a quick light step. The old butler came to
lock and bolt the hall-door as the clock struck ten, according to unalterable custom; and I
went back to my room, wondering what could have kept Mrs. Darrell out so long-- whether she
had been upon some special errand, or had only been wandering about the grounds in a purposeless
way.

For some days Milly went on very well; then there came a little change for the worse. The symptoms
were not quite so favourable. Mr. Hale assured us that there was no reason for alarm, the recovery
was only a little retarded. He had not the least doubt that all would go well. Mr. Egerton
was very quick to take fright, however, and insisted on Dr. Lomond, a famous provincial physician,
being summoned immediately from Manchester.

The great man came, and his opinion coincided entirely with that of Mr. Hale. There was not
the slightest cause for fear. Careful nursing and quiet were the two essential points. The
patient's mind was to be made as happy as possible. The physician made minute inquiries as
to the arrangements for attendance in the sick-room, and suggested a professional nurse. But
I pleaded so hard against this, assuring him of my capacity for doing much more than I had
to do, that he gave way, and consented to Milly being waited only by myself and her maid.

Mrs. Darrell was present during this conversation, and I was rather surprised by her taking
my side of the question with regard to the nursing, as it was her usual habit to oppose me
upon all subjects. To-day she was singularly gracious.

Another week went by, and there was no change for the better, nor any very perceptible change
for the worse. The patient was a little weaker, and suffered from a depression of mind, against
which all my efforts were vain.

Angus Egerton came twice daily during this week, but he rarely saw Mrs. Darrell. I think he
studiously avoided meeting her after that painful scene in the drawing-room. It was for me
he inquired, and he used to come up-stairs to the corridor outside Milly's room, and stand
there talking to me in a low voice, and feeling a kind of satisfaction, I believe, in being
so near his darling.

Once I ventured to tell her that he was there, and to let him speak a few words for her to
hear. But the sound of the voice she loved so well had such an agitating effect upon her, that
I sorely repented my imprudence, and took good care not to repeat it.

So the days went by, in that slow dreary way in which time passes when those we love are ill;
and it seemed, in the dead calm of the sick-room, as if all the business of life had come to
a stand-still.

I did not see much of Mrs. Darrell during this period. She came to Milly's door two or three
times a day to ask about her progress, with all appearance of affection and anxiety; but throughout
the rest of the day she remained secluded in her own rooms. I noticed that she had a wan haggard
look at this time, like that of a person who had existed for a long while without sleep; but
this in no manner surprised me, after that scene in the drawing-room.

As the time went by, I felt that my strength was beginning to fail, and I sadly feared that
we might have at last to employ the professional aid which the Manchester physician had suggested.
I had slept very little from the beginning of Milly's illness, being too anxious to sleep when
I had the opportunity of doing so; and I now began to suffer from the effects of this prolonged
sleeplessness. But I struggled resolutely against fatigue, determined to see my dear girl through
the fever if possible; and I succeeded wonderfully, by the aid of unlimited cups of strong
tea, and always ably seconded by Susan Dodd, Milly's devoted maid.

Between us we two performed all the duties of the sick-room. The medicines, wine, soups, jellies,
and all things required for the invalid were kept in the dressing-room, which communicated
with the bedroom by one door, and had another door opening on to the corridor.

The sick-room, which was very large and airy, was by this means kept free from all litter;
and Susan and I took pleasure in making it look bright and fresh. I used to fetch a bouquet
from the garden every morning for the little table by the bed. At the very commencement of
Milly's illness I had missed Peter, Mrs. Thatcher's grandson. I asked one of the men what had
become of him, and was told that he had taken the fever and was lying ill at his grandmother's
cottage. I mentioned this to Mrs. Darrell, and asked her permission to send him some wine and
other little comforts, to which she assented.

The Manchester physician came a second time after a week's interval, and on this occasion he
was not so positive in his opinion as to the case. He did not consider that there was peril
as yet, he said; but the patient was weaker, and he was by no means satisfied. He prescribed
a change of medicine, repeated his injunctions about care and quiet; and so departed, after
requesting Mr. Hale to telegraph for him in the event of any change for the worse.

I was a good deal depressed by his manner this time, and went back to my dear girl's room with
a heavier heart than I had known since her illness began.

It was my habit to take whatever sleep I could in the course of the afternoon, leaving Susan
Dodd on guard, so as to be able to sit up all night. Susan had begged very hard to share this
night-watching, but I insisted upon her taking her usual rest, so as to be bright and fresh
in the day. I felt the night-work was the more important duty, and could trust that to no one
but myself.

Unfortunately it happened very often that I was quite unable to sleep when I went to my room
in the afternoon to lie down. Half my time I used to lie there wide awake thinking of my darling
girl, and praying for her speedy recovery. On the afternoon that followed the Manchester doctor's
second visit I went to my room as usual; but I was more than ever disinclined to sleep. For
the first time since the fever began I felt a horrible dread that the end might be fatal; and
I lay tossing restlessly from side to side, meditating on every word and look of the physician's,
and trying to convince myself that there was no real ground for my alarm. We acusábamos to Nanar as Parsondes had accused
him before, but our voice, less authoritative than yours, did not touch the heart Art, or decided
to topple him Nanar, and more moderated put another King in Babylon. Nanar was more skeptical
and libertine Sardanapalus, Babylon and was worshiped under another god Milita and interest,
or as it were, to Venus. In vain my comrades and I preached corruption. The common people and nobility
we laughed in his face. We vengábamos to talk about the holy life of Parsondes and put in contrast
to the life they carried.

So things were going, when Art called me early morning early to his presence.

- There is hope, he said, that Parsondes still alive, but if dead,
it is necessary to avenge and punish her killer, which can not be
other than King Nanar.

- Your wisdom, sir, I said, is like the light,
which penetrates and find out.

Vences the crocodile in wisdom and insight lynx, but how did you know that can Parsondes still
living, and if dead, his murderer was Nanar? Do not have secured the wizards Parsondes is in heaven?
Have not found the astrologers in the blue vault star before never seen, and have not recognized that
star Parsondes soul?

- That is true, "replied the king, but I have come to find out, by disclosing some Nanar Babylonians
disgruntled gentlemen, it, furious that claimed Parsondes against him, seven years has sent
emissaries to all parties to secretly take him and taken to his palace, and there must be Parsondes,
or dead, or suffering horrible torments.

- Ah, sir! I cried to the point, prostrate at the feet of the King, it is just an evil revenge dreadful.
Allow me to be the instrument of your revenge, and save my dear teacher
the captivity in which, if not dead, is.

The King told me that to this end had called me, and immediately prepare
to leave with me the support due, and his strict orders to answer
me with your Nanar life of the holy man, or his release.

That same day, which was one of the hottest of summer, I went to Susa in a chariot Arab drawn by
four horses. A skilled driver was addressed, and two Ethiopian slaves also accompanied me in
the car, with air on one with an ostrich feather fan, and holding the other on rich ivory varal,
neatly styled, the wide umbrella silk. Four riders, all quivers, bows and arrows, clothing and
covered mesh head with individual bronze helmets, gleaming colors Niel, I followed and gave me greater
authority and decorum. Six scouts, mounted zebra striped and lightning-fast, went before me, to
advertise in the various populations.

Victuals and drink that we brought to supplement the shortcomings of the way, came on the backs
of twenty powerful elephants.

Not to be too wordy, not referring here minutely the events of my trip. Suffice to know that
the tenth day we discovered in the distance the huge walls of Babylon, Nebuchadnezzar work and
Nitocris. They were thirty yards in thickness, surrounding the city,
forming a zone twenty-two leagues of circumnavigation, and rose, at
the lowest hundred and twenty yards above the earth as much as the
bells of the cathedrals now. Crowned by a tuft of green walls. He was very attentive, and was reputed to be very
clever; and I knew that he was really attached to Milly, whom he had attended from her infancy.

Angus Egerton saw me twice every day; and these brief interviews had now become very painful
to me. I found it so difficult to cheer him with hopeful words, when my own heart was hourly
growing heavier, and the fears that had been vague and shadowy were gathering strength and
shape. I was very tired, but I held out resolutely; and I had never once slept for so much
as a quarter of an hour upon my watch, until the second night after that meeting with Mrs.
Darrell at the door of the dressing-room.

That night I was seized with an unconquerable sleepiness, about an hour after I had dismissed
Susan Dodd. The room was very quiet, not a sound except the ticking of the pretty little clock
upon the mantelpiece. Milly was fast asleep, and I was sitting on a low chair by the fire trying
to read, when my drowsiness overcame me, my heavy eyelids fell, and I went off into a feverish
kind of slumber, in which I was troubled with an uneasy consciousness that I ought to be awake.

I had slept in this way for a little more than an hour, when I suddenly started up broad awake.
[In] the intense quiet of the room I had heard a sound like the chinking of glass, and I fancied
that Milly had stirred.

There was a table near her bed, with a glass of cooling drink and a bottle of water upon it.
I thought she must have stretched out her hand for this glass, and that in so doing she had
pushed the glass against the bottle; but to my surprise I found her lying quite still, and
fast asleep. The sound must have come from some other direction--from the dressing-room, perhaps.

I went into the dressing-room. There was no one there. No trace of the smallest disturbance
among the things. The medicine-bottles and the medicine-glass stood on the little table exactly
as I had left them. I was very careful and precise in my arrangement of these things, and it
would have been difficult for the slightest interference with them to have escaped me. What
could that sound have been--some accidental shiver of the glass, stirred by a breath of wind,
one of those mysterious movements of inanimate objects which are so apt to occur in the dead
hours of the night, and which seem always more or less ghostly to a nervous watcher? Could
it have been only accidental? or had Mrs. Darrell been prowling stealthily in and out of that
room again?

Why should she have been there? What could her secret coming and going mean? What purpose could
she have in hovering about the sick girl? what could her hatred profit itself by such uneasy
watchfulness, unless-- Unless what? An icy coldness came over me, and I shook like a leaf,
as a dreadful thought took shape in my mind. What if that desperate woman's hatred took the
most awful form? what if her secret presence in that room meant murder?

I took up the medicine-bottle and examined it minutely. In colour, in odour, in taste, the
medicine seemed to me exactly what it had been from the time it had been altered, in accordance
with the Manchester doctor's second prescription. Mr. Hale's label was on the bottle, and the
quantity of the contents was exactly what it had been after I gave Milly her last dose--one
dose gone out of the full bottle.

'O, no, no, no,' I thought to myself; 'I must be mad to imagine anything so awful. A woman
may be weak, and wicked, and jealous, when she has loved as intensely as this woman seems to
have loved Angus Egerton; but that is no reason she should become a murderess.'

I stood with the medicine-bottle in my hand sorely perplexed. What could I do? Should I suspend
the medicine for to-night, at the risk of retarding the cure? or should I give it in spite
of that half suspicion that it had been tampered with?

What ground had I for such a suspicion? At that moment nothing but the sound that had awakened
me, the chinking sound of one glass knocked against another.

Had I really heard any such sound, or had it only been a delusion of my half sleeping brain?
While I stood weighing this question, a sudden recollection flashed across my mind, and I had
no longer ground for doubt.

The cork of the medicine-bottle, when I gave Milly her last dose, had been too large for the
bottle; so much so, that I had found it difficult to put it in again after giving the medicine.
The cork of the bottle which I now held in my hand went in loosely enough. It was a smaller
and an older-looking cork. This decided me. I placed the bottle under lock and key in Milly's
wardrobe, and I gave her no more medicine that night.

There was no fear of my sleeping at my post after this. My thoughts for the rest of that night
were full of horror and bewilderment. My course seemed clear enough, in one respect. The proper
person to confide in would be Mr. Hale. He would be able to discover whether the medicine had
been tampered with, and it would be his business to protect his patient.

CHAPTER XII.

DEFEATED.

I went down to the garden for the flowers as usual next morning, as I did not wish to make
any palpable change in my arrangements; but before leaving the room I impressed upon Susan
Dodd the necessity of remaining with her mistress during every moment of my absence, though
I knew I had little need to counsel carefulness. Nothing was more unlikely than that Susan
would neglect her duty for a moment.

Peter came again, as he had come to me on the previous morning. Again he lingered about me,
as if he had something more to say, and could not take courage to say it. This time the strangeness
of his manner aroused my curiosity, and I asked him if he had anything particular to say to me.

'You must be quick, Peter, whatever it is,' I said; 'for I am in a great hurry to get back
to Miss Darrell.'

'There is something I want to say, miss,' he answered, twisting his ragged straw hat round
and round in his bony hands, in a nervous way,--'something I should like to say, but I'm naught
but a poor fondy, and don't know how to begin. Only you've been very good to Peter, you see,
miss, sending wine and such things when I was ill, and I ain't afeard o' you, as I am o' some
folks.'

'The wine was not mine, Peter. Be quick, please; tell me what you want to say.'

'I can't come to it very easy, miss. It's something awful-like to tell on.'

'Something awful?'

The boy had looked round him with a cautious glance, and was now standing close to me, with
his light blue eyes fixed upon my face in a very earnest way.

'Speak out, Peter,' I said; 'you needn't be afraid of me.'

'It happened when I was ill, you see, miss, and I've sometimes thought as it might be no more
than a dream. I had a many dreams while I were lying on that little bed in grandmother's room,
wicked dreams, and this might be one of them; and yet it's real-like, and there isn't the muddle
in it that there is in the other dreams.'

'What is it, Peter? O, pray, pray be quick!'

'I'm a-coming to it, miss. Is it wicked for folks to kill theirselves?'

'Is it wicked? Of course it is--desperately wicked; a sin that can never be repented of.'

'Then I know one that's going to do it.'

'Who?'

'Mrs. Darrell.'

He gave a solemn nod, and stood staring at me with wide-open awe- stricken eyes.

'How do you know that?'

'It was one dark night, when it was raining hard--I could hear it drip, drip, drip upon the
roof just over where I was lying. It was when I was very bad, and lay still all day and couldn't
speak. But I knew what grandmother said to me, and I knew everything that was going on, though
I didn't seem to--that was the curious part of it. I had been asleep for a bit, and I woke
up all of a sudden, and heard some one talking to grandmother in the next room--the door wasn't
wide open, only ajar. I shouldn't have known who it was, for I'm not quick at telling voices,
like other folks; but I heard grandmother call her Mrs. Darrell; and I heard the lady say that
when one was sick and tired of life, and had no one left to live for, it was best to die; and
grandmother laughed, and says yes, there wasn't much to live for, leastways not for such as
her. 

Amparo could not answer to this nonsense, but making them laugh. And what work will cost laugh!
To change the conversation talking about the next dance palace, and in that item, the descendant of Pipaón
brief them at will. The arrangement of her dress, whose skirt was from the endless mercies
of the Queen, he occupied all his spare time. In decorating work the two with flowers, lace and ribbons
that belonged to what he had bought for gifts of the bride. Rosalie thought to be prom night the
great house dressing Samper Augustine had acquired for his future, saying in this regard:

"I suppose you'll give your permission to look once the poor dressing."

Lead role on such a solemn D. Francisco their assignment of Charles III, whose logos will Augustine
had given. The new coat it also premiered the same night, as though this pledge was not to look
at the ball, convenient display it on the stairs and hall, where too much light. And what
of the economic troubles Thiers to attend the coat, the boots patent leather, the two gowns
that Rosalie had done, Christmas dinner, the footwear children, and felt sorry for him, and
other trifles! Thanks that was double pay on December, ie, tipping official if no ...! Still, he went
above the treasure Bringuístico to fall into the horrible abyss of insolvency. To avoid this,
D. Francisco had begun suppress the coffee, and concluded to dispense wine at meals. And what
disappointments are people are helpful! Waiting for my D. Francisco Telleria the Marchioness,
who made for composing an old chest, leaving it like new, will send a good Christmas gift.
Such was his confidence, that every time the bell sounded in those days, said, "already there",
leaving a penny on hand to give it to the carrier raised gift. But the Marquise did not take
care of such a thing. He will be here almost immediately, I suppose; so I will stay in Milly's room
till he comes.'

She went into the bedroom, bent over the invalid for a few minutes, talking in a gentle sympathetic
voice, and then took her place by the bedside. It was evident to me that she had suspected
something from the removal of the medicine, and that she intended to prevent my seeing Mr.
Hale alone.

'You took your medicine regularly last night, I suppose, Milly?' she inquired presently, when
I had seated myself at a little table by the window and was sipping my tea.

'I don't think you gave me quite so many doses last night, did you, Mary?' said the invalid,
in her feeble voice. 'I fancy you were more merciful than usual.'

'It was very wrong of Miss Crofton to neglect your medicine. Mr. Hale will be extremely angry
when he hears of it.'

'I do not think Milly will be much worse for the omission,' I answered quietly.

After this we sat silently waiting for the doctor's appearance. He came in about a quarter
of an hour, and pronounced himself better pleased with his patient than he had been the night
before. There had been a modification of the more troublesome symptoms of the fever towards
morning.

I told him of my omission to give the medicine.

'That was very wrong,' he said.

'Yet you see she had a better night, Mr. Hale. I suppose that medicine was intended to modify
those attacks of sickness from which she has suffered so much?'

'To prevent them altogether, if possible.'

'That is very strange. It really appears to me that the medicine always increases the tendency
to sickness.'

Mr. Hale shook his head impatiently.

'You don't know what you are talking about, Miss Crofton,' he said.

'May I say a few words to you alone, if you please?'

Mrs. Darrell rose, with a hurried anxious look.

'What can you have to say to Mr. Hale alone, Miss Crofton?' she asked.

'It is about herself, perhaps,' said the doctor kindly. 'I have told her all along that she
would be knocked up by this nursing; and now I daresay she begins to find I am right.'

'Yes,' I said, 'it is about myself I want to speak.'

Mrs. Darrell went to one of the windows, and stood with her face turned away from us, looking
out. I followed Mr. Hale into the dressing-room.

I unlocked the wardrobe, took out the medicine-bottle, and told the doctor my suspicions of
the previous night. He listened to me with grave attention, but with an utterly incredulous look.

'A nervous fancy of yours, no doubt, Miss Crofton,' he said; 'however, I'll take the medicine
back to my surgery and analyse it.'

'I have something more to tell you, Mr. Hale.'

'Indeed!'

I repeated, word for word, what Peter had told me about Mrs. Darrell's visit to his grandmother.

'It is a very extraordinary business,' he said; 'but I cannot imagine that Mrs. Darrell would
be capable of such a hideous crime. What motive could she have for such an act?'

'I do not feel justified in speaking quite plainly upon that subject, Mr. Hale; but I have
reason to know that Mrs. Darrell has a very bitter feeling about her stepdaughter.'

'I cannot think the thing you suspect possible. However, the medicine shall be analysed; and
we will take all precautions for the future. I will send you another bottle immediately, in
a sealed packet. You will take notice that the seal is unbroken before you use the medicine.'

He showed me his crest on a seal at the end of his pencil-case, and then departed. The medicine
came a quarter of an hour later in a sealed packet. (N. A.)

[31] Juan Bautista Vermay (1784-1833), French painter who came to Cuba to restore some pictures
of the Cathedral of Havana. Protected by Bishop Sword, Captain General
Vives and other influential people, was established in Havana. He
was very well satisfied with the appearance of the patient, however, and pronounced that there
was a change for the better--slight, of course, but quite as much as could be expected in so
short a time. He beckoned me out of the room, and I went down-stairs with him, leaving Susan
Dodd with Milly.

'I am going to speak to Mrs. Darrell, and you had better come with me,' he said.

She was in the library. Mr. Hale went in, and I followed him. She was sitting at the table,
with writing materials scattered before her; but she was not writing. She had a strange preoccupied
air; but at the sight of Mr. Hale she rose suddenly, and looked at him with a deadly white face.

'Is she worse?' she asked.

'No, Mrs. Darrell; she is better,' he answered sternly. 'I find that we have been the dupes
of some secret enemy of this dear child's. There has been an attempt at murder going on under
our very eyes. Poison has been mixed with the medicine sent by me--a slow poison. Happily for
us the poisoner has been a little too cautious for the success of the crime. The doses administered
have been small enough to leave the chance of recovery. Because Amparito, say course,
had no ambition of luxury but of decency, aspired to an orderly life, comfortable and without
apparatus, and that fortune coming to him saying "here I am, fuck me," the back And overjoyed
however, lacked courage to take it, because inside turbadísimo terrible qualms cried out: "stop
... it's not for you. "

Something more than transcribed spoken, phrases without substance to others, for them interesting. At the
door of the house, when each was recreated in their eyes, receiving
and returning in enjoyable game, Knight slipped the word:

""

I go up?

".

- I think it is unwise.

Both were serious.

- I think very well -
said Augustine, who was always fair -.
I shall telegraph to Leeds immediately for a professional nurse, to relieve Miss Crofton in
the care of the sick-room; and I shall communicate at once with the police, in order that this
house may be placed under surveillance.'

Mrs. Darrell said not a word, either in objection or assent, to this. She seated herself by
the table again, and began trifling idly with the writing materials before her.

'You will do what is best, of course, Mr. Hale,' she said, after a long pause; 'you are quite
at liberty to act in this matter according to your own discretion.'

'Thanks; it is a matter in which my responsibility entitles me to a certain amount of power.
I shall telegraph to Dr. Lomond, asking him to come down to-morrow. Whatever doubt you may
entertain of my judgment will be dispelled when I am supported by his opinion.'

'Of course; but I have not expressed any doubt of your judgment.'

We left her immediately after this--left her sitting before the table, with her restless hands
turning over the papers. 

King's robe was of cloth of gold, embroidered with multicolored silk. The embroidery is represented all
the flowers of the field and every bird of the air and all the stars of the ether. Wearing King
no less wonderful a tiara, bangles and bracelets, and earrings two round pearls each size of a
quail egg.

Her hair fell in curls over the back perfumed, and his beard was menudísimos
curls, artistic and symmetrically arranged. Her strange absent ways had attracted the attention of the servants for some time
past, and the evidence of her own maid respecting her restlessness and irritability for the
last few months influenced the minds of coroner and jury.

The letter found lying on the table before her was addressed to Angus Egerton. He declined
to communicate its contents when questioned about it at the inquest. Milly progressed towards
recovery slowly but surely from the hour in which I stopped the suspected medicine. The time
came when we were obliged to tell her of her stepmother's awful death; but she never knew the
attempt that had been made on her own life, or the atmosphere of hatred in which she had lived.

We left Thornleigh for Scarborough as soon as she was well enough to be moved, and only returned
in the early spring, in time for my darling's wedding.

She has now been married nearly seven years, during which time her life has been very bright
and happy--a life of almost uncheckered sunshine. She has carried out her idea of our friendship
to the very letter; and we have never been separated, except during her honeymoon and my own
visits home. Happily for my sense of independence, there are now plenty of duties for me to
perform at Cumber Priory, where I am governess to a brood of pretty children, who call me auntie,
and hold me scarcely second to their mother in their warm young hearts. But perhaps
take it. What then, my work is worthless? ... All day on the street, forgetting my attention!
... There are things here, daughter, you will have to be very bad, because you have air, come
on, you do not like more than the dress of merino.

