Lord Griffin was an old Englishman, who deserves a word of special mention.  A firm Protestant,
but much attached to the King of England, he knew nothing of this expedition until after the
King's departure.  He went immediately in quest of the Queen.  With English freedom he reproached
her for the little confidence she had had in him, in spite of his services and his constant
fidelity, and finished by assuring her that neither his age nor his religion would hinder him
from serving the King to the last drop of his blood.  He spoke so feelingly that the Queen
was ashamed.  After this he went to Versailles, asked M. de Toulouse for a hundred Louis and
a horse, and without delay rode off to Dunkerque, where he embarked with the others.  In London
he was condemned to death; but he showed so much firmness and such disdain of death, that his
judges were too much ashamed to avow the execution to be carried out.  The Queen sent him one
respite, then another, although he had never asked for either, and finally he was allowed to
remain at liberty in London on parole.  He always received fresh respites, and lived in London
as if it his own country, well received everywhere.  Being informed that these respites would
never cease, he lived thus several years, and died very old, a natural death.  The other prisoners
were equally well treated.  It was in this expedition that the King of England first assumed
the title of the Chevalier de Saint George, and that his enemies gave him that of the Pretender;
both of which have remained to him.  He showed much will and firmness, which he spoiled by
a docility, the result of a bad education, austere and confined, that devotion, ill understood,
together with the desire of maintaining him in fear and dependence, caused the Queen (who,
with all her sanctity, always wished to dominate) to give him.  He asked to serve in the next
campaign in Flanders, and wished to go there at once, or remain near Dunkerque.  Service was
promised him, but he was made to return to Saint Germain.  Hough, who had been made a peer
of Ireland before starting, preceded him with the journals of the voyage, and that of Forbin,
to whom the King gave a thousand crowns pension and ten thousand as a recompense.

The King of England arrived at Saint Germain on Friday, the 20th of April, and came with the
Queen, the following Sunday, to Marly, where our King was.  The two Kings embraced each other
several times, in the presence of the two Courts.  But the visit altogether was a sad one.
The Courts, which met in the garden, returned towards the Chateau, exchanging indifferent words
in an indifferent way.

Middleton was strongly suspected of having acquainted the English with our project.  They acted,
at all events, as if they had been informed of everything, and wished to appear to know nothing.
They made a semblance of sending their fleet to escort a convoy to Portugal; they got in readiness
the few troops they had in England and sent them towards Scotland; and the Queen, under various
pretexts, detained in London, until the affair had failed, the Duke of Hamilton, the most powerful
Scotch lord; and the life and soul of the expedition.  When all was over, she made no arrests,
and wisely avoided throwing Scotland into despair. This conduct much augmented her authority
in England, attached all hearts to her, and took away all desire of stirring again by taking
away all hope of success.  Thus failed a project so well and so secretly conducted until the
end, which was pitiable; and with this project failed that of the Low Countries, which was
no longer thought of.

The allies uttered loud cries against this attempt on the part of a power they believed at
its last gasp, and which, while pretending to seek peace, thought of nothing less than the
invasion of Great Britain.  The effect of our failure was to bind closer, and to irritate more
and more this formidable alliance.

CHAPTER XL

Brissac, Major of the Body-guards, died of age and ennui about this time, more than eighty
years old, at his country-house, to which he had not long retired.  The King had made use of
him to put the Guards upon that grand military footing they have reached.  He had acquired
the confidence of the King by his inexorable exactitude, his honesty, and his aptitude. He
was a sort of wild boar, who had all the appearance of a bad man, without being so in reality;
but his manners were, it must be admitted, harsh and disagreeable.  The King, speaking one
day of the majors of the troops, said that if they were good, they were sure to be hated.

"If it is necessary to be perfectly hated in order to be a good major," replied M. de Duras,
who was behind the King with the baton, "behold, Sire, the best major in France!" and he took
Brissac, all confusion, by the arm.  The King laughed, though he would have thought such a
sally very bad in any other; but M. de Duras had put himself on such a free footing, that he
stopped at nothing before the King, and often said the sharpest things.  This major had very
robust health, and laughed at the doctors--very often, even before the King, at Fagon, whom
nobody else would have dared to attack.  Fagon replied by disdain, often by anger, and with
all his wit was embarrassed.  These short scenes were sometimes very amusing.

Brissac, a few years before his retirement, served the Court ladies a nice turn.  All through
the winter they attended evening prayers on Thursdays and Sundays, because the King went there;
and, under the pretence of reading their prayer-books, had little tapers before them, which
cast a light on their faces, and enabled the King to recognise them as he passed.  On the evenings
when they knew he would not go, scarcely one of them went.  One evening, when the King was
expected, all the ladies had arrived, and were in their places, and the guards were at their
doors.  Suddenly, Brissac appeared in the King's place, lifted his baton, and cried aloud,
"Guards of the King, withdraw, return to your quarters; the King is not coming this evening."
The guards withdrew; but after they had proceeded a short distance, were stopped by brigadiers
posted for the purpose, and told to return in a few minutes.  What Brissac had said was a joke.
The ladies at once began to murmur one to another.  In a moment or two all the candles were
put out, and the ladies, with but few exceptions, left the chapel.  Soon after the King arrived,
and, much astonished to see so few ladies present, asked how it was that nobody was there.
At the conclusion of the prayers Brissac related what he had done, not without dwelling on
the piety of the Court ladies.  The King and all who accompanied him laughed heartily.  The
story soon spread, and these ladies would have strangled Brissac if they had been able.

