"Oh, yes!  I should not be marrying the family.  I'd be sorry, of course, but I'd make up my
mind that in time I'd make them fall in love with me, too.  What are you going to do now?"

"Going away.  Into the country.  I want to be quiet, and think."

Janet did not ask the address.  She sat silent, staring into space, then asked a sudden irrelevant
question:

"Did he send you the cuckoo clock?"

"I--think so!  It had no name, but it came from Switzerland while he was there.  He has never
referred to it since."

"Ah!"  Janet began pulling on her gloves. The
Maritornes abound and are the same; Sancho shows his face everywhere, always conservative, mischievous,
good-natured and unresponsive to the movement, the windmill move with the same regularity that at the
time that the illustrious Manchego apostrophes and spearing him without mercy, and mules and
donkeys, gear, coats, blankets, furniture, as it is visible there remains faithfully the traditions
revealed by the immortal prisoner Argamasilla. I think bray mayors today in the same tones
as the two who did not say to Cervantes:

     

"Brayed in vain No One and the other mayor,"
Centuries have passed over the English Channel, without changing
anything, as if time had said: - "There are regions that are better
left sleeping dogs lie." For the moment it had
no doubt been made more out of bravado than any real conviction, and inevitably there must
be a period of suffering, but Janet was of a naturally buoyant nature, and her wounded spirit
would gradually find consolation in the love which had waited so patiently for its reward.
It needed no great gift of prophecy to see her in the future, a happy, contented wife.

CHAPTER TWENTY SIX.

EASIER TO DIE.

When Janet had taken her departure Claire looked at the clock and found that it was time to
start for the hospital.  She went out of the station, and, passing a shop for flowers and fruit
went in, spent ten shillings in the filling of a reed basket, and, leaving the shop, seated
herself in one of the taxis which were standing in readiness outside the great porch.  Such
carelessness of money was a natural reversion to habit, which came as a consequence of her
absorbed mind.

The great hospital looked bare and grim, the smell of iodoform was more repellent than ever,
after the sweet scents of the country.  Claire knew her way by this time, and ascended by lift
to the women's ward, where Sophie lay.  Beside almost every bed one or two visitors were seated,
but Sophie was alone.  Down the length of the ward Claire caught a glimpse of a recumbent form,
and felt a pang at the thought of the many visiting days when her friend had remained alone.
With no relations in town, her brother's family too pressed for means to afford expeditions
from the country, Sophie had no hope of seeing a familiar face, and her very attitude bespoke
dejection.

Claire walked softly to the further side of the bed, and dangled the basket before the half-covered
face, whereupon Sophie pushed back the clothes and sat up, her eyes lighting with joy.

"Claire!  You!  Oh, you dearly beloved, I thought you were still away! Oh, I am glad--I am
glad!  I was so dreadfully blue!"

She looked it.  Even in the eagerness of welcome her face looked white and drawn, and the pretty
pink jacket, Claire's own gift, seemed to accentuate her pallor.  The hands with which she
fondled the flowers were surely thinner than they had been ten days before.

"My dear, what munificence!  Have you come into a fortune?  And fruit underneath!  I shall
be able to treat the whole ward!  When did you come back?  Have you had a good time?  Are you
going on to the farm?  It is good of you to come again.  It's--it's hard being alone when you
see the other patients with their own people.  The nurses are dears, but they are so rushed,
poor things, they haven't time to stay and talk.  And oh, Claire, the days!  They're so wearily
long!"

Claire murmured tender exclamations of understanding and pity.  A pained conviction that Sophie
was no better made her shrink from putting the obvious question; but Sophie did not wait to
be asked.

"Oh, Claire," she cried desperately, "it's so hard to be patient and to keep on hoping, when
there's no encouragement to hope!  I'm not one scrap better after all that has been tried,
and I've discovered that they did not expect me to be better; the best they seem to hope for
is that I may not grow worse!  It's like running at the pitch of one's speed, and succeeding
only in keeping in the same place.  And there are other arthritics in this ward!"  She shuddered.
"When I think that I may become like them!  It would be much easier to die."

"I think it would often seem easier," Claire agreed sadly, her thoughts turning to Cecil, whose
trouble at the moment seemed as heavy as the one before her.  "But we can't be deserters, Sophie.
We must stick to our posts, and play the game.  When these troubles come, we just have to bear
them.  There's no hiding, or running away.  There's only one choice open to us--whether we
bear it badly or well."

But Sophie's endurance was broken by weeks of suffering, and her bright spirit was momentarily
under an eclipse.

"Everybody doesn't have to bear them! If I am your daughter, if I want so much,
Why do not you come to see me? I warned you to Dolores. Why do not you come out to speak? I have
very angry.

- Ay! cried the black.

Do not tell me this girl is killing me ... His beneficence was not alone.

- No. Went with mom, Carmen, the wife and sister Moya Panchita.

What was so special?

- Pretty girl of my eyes.

- Speak, explain.

-
I can not now, my child.

- What!

You do not think my mom ask his blessing?

- Yes, girl.

I, I want the soul, came ... From the point reached by Ms. de La
Habana, I run and throw myself at your feet ...

- Why have not done
so?

Who has prevented you?

- Miss it.

- Mom? No, it can be.

You are wrong, you dream, Maria de Regla.

- I mistake not, nor sleep, Adelita girl. Hopefully!

Miss has banned your feet on this house.

- How come I do not know about that? Who has been with such a story?

- There was no story, Adelita girl. Dolores told me about a conversation he had with Miss the master
about me ...

- You see? Dolores misunderstood. You mom is not brave. And if not, now I find out.

- Do not do it, girl Adelita, no, for the love of God, "replied the
slave so scared, stopping the girl in a chant of her dress.

By itself, or not, you'd better not see me now Miss. Is there a doctor?

- Well, I want to see you alone. Arrange mode. With Dolores'll let
you know. What do you want Doctor?

- For a tan that have brought
the mountain bitten by dogs.

- Bitten by the dogs! Adela repeated.
Ay! It must be very serious case when they call doctor. If you have
torn! Probably. Those dogs are like beasts. What horror My God! Mateu,
said loudly, looking around him.  Our training must go on after we leave this sphere;
but, Sophie dear, some of us have an extra hard training here, and if we bear it in the right
way, surely, surely when we move up, it must be into a higher class than if things had been
all smooth and easy.  There must be less to learn, less to conquer, more to enjoy.  You and
I are school-mistresses and ought to realise the difficulties of mastering difficult tasks.
Don't look upon this illness as cheating you out of a pleasant holiday, dear-- look upon it
as special training for an honours exam.!"

Sophie smiled, her old twinkling smile, and stroked Claire's hand with the spray of roses.

"I knew you'd say something nice!  I knew you'd put it in a quaint, refreshing way.  I shall
remember that, when I am alone, and feel courage oozing out of every pore.  Two o'clock in
the morning is a particularly cheery time when you are racked with pain!  Claire, I asked the
doctor to tell me honestly whether there was any chance of my ever taking up the old work again,
and he said, honestly, he feared there was none."

"But Mrs Willoughby--"

"I asked that, too.  He says he quite hopes to get me well enough to go to Egypt in October
or November, and that I should certainly be much better there.  It would be the best thing
that could happen if it came off!  But--"

Claire held up a protesting hand.

"No ifs!  No buts!  Do your part, and get better, and leave the rest to Providence and--Mrs
Willoughby!  It's her mission in life to help girls, and she'll help you, too, or know the
reason why.  The truly sensible thing would be for you to begin to prepare your clothes.  What
about starting a fascinating blouse at once?  Your hands are quite able to sew, and if you
once got to work with chiffon and lace the time would fly!  You might write for patterns to-night.
You would enjoy looking at patterns."

When Claire took her departure half an hour later, she left behind a very different Sophie
from the wan dejected-looking creature whom she had found on her arrival.

Hers was a happy nature, easily cheered, responsive to comfort, and Claire had a happy conviction
that whatever physical handicaps might be in store, her spirit would rise valiantly to the
rescue.  A winter in Egypt was practically assured, since Mrs Willoughby had privately informed
Claire that if nothing better offered, she would send Sophie at her own expense to help in
the household of her niece--an officer's wife, who would be thankful for assistance, though
she could not afford to pay the passage out.  What was to happen in the future no one could
tell, and there was no profit in asking the question.  The next step was clear, and the rest
must be left to faith, but with a chilling of the blood Claire asked herself what became of
the disabled working women who had no influential friends to help in such a crisis; the women
who fell out of the ranks to die by the roadside homeless, penniless, alone?

CHAPTER TWENTY SEVEN.

SURRENDER.

It was a very limp and exhausted Claire who arrived at the farm that evening, and if she had
had her own way she would have hurried to bed without waiting for a meal, but the kind countrywoman
displayed such disappointment at the idea that she allowed herself to be dissuaded, sat down
to a table spread with home-made dainties and discovered that she was hungrier than she had
believed.  The fried ham and eggs, the fresh butter, the thick yellow cream, the sweet coarse
bread, were all the best of their kind, and Claire smiled at her own expense as she looked
at the emptied dishes, and reflected that, for a person who had professed herself unable to
eat a bite, she had made a pretty good sweep!

The bed was somewhat bumpy, as farmhouse beds have a habit of being; there was one big ball
in especial which took many wrigglings to avoid; but on the other hand the sheets smelt deliciously,
not of lavender, but of lemon thyme, and the prevailing air of cleanliness was delicious after
the smoke-laden atmosphere of town.  Claire told herself that she could not expect to sleep.
She resigned herself to hear the clock strike every hour--and as a matter of fact after ten
o'clock she was unconscious of the whole world, until her breakfast-tray was carried into the
room next morning.

After breakfast she had another nap, and after lunch still another, and in the intervals wandered
about the farm-yard, laboriously striving to take an interest in what really interested her
not at all.  Hens seemed to her the dullest of created creatures, pigs repelled, cows were
regarded with uneasy suspicion, and sheep, seen close at hand, lost all the picturesque quality
of a distant flock, and became stupid long-faced creatures, by no means as clean as they might
be.  Milking-time aroused no ambition to experiment on her own account, and a glass of foaming
new milk proved unexpectedly nauseous.  Sad as it was to confess it, she infinitely preferred
the chalked and watered edition of the city!

Indoors things were no better, for the tiny sitting-room stood by itself at the end of a passage,
cut off from the life of the house.  It was spotlessly clean and the pride of its owner's heart,
but contained nothing of interest to an outsider.  Pictures there were none, with the exception
of portraits of the farmer and his wife, of the enlarged photograph type, and a selection of
framed funeral cards in a corner. Books there were none, with the exception of a catalogue
of an Agricultural Show, and a school prize copy of Black Beauty.  Before the second night
was over Claire had read Black Beauty from cover to cover; the next morning she was dipping
into the catalogue, and trying to concentrate her attention on "stock."

As her body grew rested, Claire's mind became increasingly active.  It was inevitable, but
the second stage was infinitely harder to bear.  For the first hours after her arrival her
supreme longing had been to lie down and shut her eyes; but now restlessness overtook her,
and with every fresh hour drove her more helplessly to and fro.  She went out for long walks
over the countryside, her thoughts so engrossingly turned inward that she saw nothing of the
landscape on either hand; she returned to the house and endeavoured to write, to read, to sew,
only to give up the attempt at the end of half an hour, and once more wander helplessly forth.

The good countrywoman was quick to sense that some hidden trouble was preying on her guest,
and showed her sympathy in practical fashion.

"A bit piney-like, aren't you?  I seed from the first that you was piney-like," she said, standing
tray in hand on the threshold of the little parlour, her fresh, highly-coloured face smiling
kindly upon the pale girl.  "I always do say that I pities ladies when they has anything on
their minds; sitting about, same as you do now, with nothing to take them off theirselves. This is where families gather, they are visits and
enjoys home gatherings during the hottest months in of summer, when there is no preference roof.

Cadiz
is in marble lavished everywhere

. But if you come back tomorrow and
see everything, and meditate to guess the past that disappeared, an idea is acquired better, each
visit to the Alhambra feel that grows in the imagination and has more and more charms.
  I feel so lonely shut off here, all by myself."

Mrs Corby laughed, her fat comfortable laugh.

"Bless your 'art, you can come along and welcome.  I'll be proud to have you.  It ain't much
you know of housework, I expect, but it'll do you no harm to learn.  I'll find you some little
jobs."

"Oh, I'm not so useless as you think.  I can brush and dust, and polish, and wash up, and I
know a good deal about cooking.  I'll make a salad to eat with the cold meat--a real French
salad.  I'm sure Mr Corby would enjoy a French salad," cried Claire, glancing out of the window
at the well-stocked kitchen garden, and thinking of the wet lettuce and uncut onions, which
were the good woman's idea of the dish in question.  "May I make one to-day?"

Mrs Corby smiled with a fine resignation.  Personally she wanted none of them nasty messy foods,
but there! the poor thing meant well, and if it would make her happy, let her have her way.
So Claire collected her materials, and washed and mixed, and filled a great bowl, and decorated
the top with slices of hardboiled eggs, and a few bright nasturtium blossoms, while three linty-locked
children stood by, watching with fascinated attention.  At dinner Claire thoroughly enjoyed
her share of her own salad, but the verdict of the country-people was far from enthusiastic.

"I don't go for to deny that it tasted well enough," Mrs Corby said with magnanimous candour,
"but what I argue is, what's the sense of using up all them extras--eggs, and oil, and what
not--when you can manage just as well without?  I've never seen the day when I couldn't relish
a bit o' plain lettuce and a plate of good spring onions!"

"But the eggs and the dressing make it more nourishing," Claire maintained. 

And strength is giving up the company, failing which the knife into action to support with their
arguments, the intimation of Andalusian jealous.

The inclination to gallantry (and his many consequences) is very
general in Seville.  Mrs Corby pronounced with unction, and Claire retired from the struggle,
and decided that for the future it would be more tactful to learn, rather than to endeavour
to teach.  The next morning, therefore, she worked under Mrs Corby's supervision, picking fruit,
feeding chickens, searching for eggs, and other light tasks designed to keep her in the open
air; and in the afternoon accompanied the children on a message to a farm some distance away.
The path lay across the fields, away from the main road, and on returning an hour later, Mrs
Corby's figure was seen standing by her own gate, her hand raised to her eyes, as though watching
for their approach.  The children broke into a run, and Claire hurried forward, her heart beating
with deep excited throbs.  What was it?  Who was it? Nobody but Sophie and Cecil knew her address,
but still, but still-- For a moment hope soared, then sank heavily down as Mrs Corby announced--

"A lady, miss.  Come to see you almost as soon as you left.  She's waiting in the parlour."

Cecil!  Claire hardly knew if she were sorry or relieved.  It would be a blessing to have some
one to whom she could speak, but, on the other hand, what poor Cecil had to say would not fail
to be depressing.  She went slowly down the passage, taking a grip over her own courage, opened
the door, and stood transfixed. I think only two powers abolished in Spain, rather than regulations, bullfights,
popular elections and railways, ie activity industry and locomotion, and the invigoration
of political life. Her gloved hands were crossed on her lap, she sat ostentatiously erect, her satin
cloak falling around her in regal folds; her face was a trifle paler than usual, but the mocking
light shone in her eyes.  At Claire's entrance she stood up, and crossed the little room to
her side.

"My dear," she said calmly, "I am an obstinate old woman, but I have the sense to know when
I'm beaten.  I have come to offer my apologies."

A generous heart is quick to forgive.  At that moment Claire felt a pang indeed, but it came
not from the remembrance of her own wrongs, but from the sight of this proud, domineering woman
humbling herself to a girl. Impulsively she threw out both hands, impulsively she stopped Mrs
Fanshawe's lips with the kiss which she had refused at parting.

"Oh, stop! But nestled between mountains, no roads, no freedom change
or industry, and flawed population into habits of idleness and passive obedience, Mancha life (if
the vegetation can be called life) has been concentrated in cities and villas.
 You came between me and my plans, and I wanted
to get you out of the way.  You saw through me, and I suppose I deserved to be seen through.
It's an unpleasant experience, but if it's any satisfaction to you to know it, I've been well
punished for interfering.  Erskine has seen to my punishment."

