"Sybilla is so clever--she says I don't understand. You know how self-confident young people
are! My husband never said that of me, now--he knows I had an excellent education. My aunts
were very particular; I was brought up to have opinions, and my husband has always respected
them. He says himself that he wouldn't for the world miss hearing my opinion on any subject;
you may have noticed that he often refers to my tastes. He has always respected my preference
for living in England; he likes to hear me give my reasons for it. He is so much interested
in my ideas that he often says he knows just what I am going to say before I speak. But Sybilla
does not care for what I think--"

At this point Doctor Lombard entered. He glanced sharply at Wyant. "The servant is a fool;
she didn't tell me you were here." His eye turned to his wife. "Well, my dear, what have you
been telling Mr. Wyant? About the aunts at Bonchurch, I'll be bound!"

Mrs. Lombard looked triumphantly at Wyant, and her husband rubbed his hooked fingers, with a smile.

"Mrs. Lombard's aunts are very superior women. They subscribe to the circulating library, and
borrow Good Words and the Monthly Packet from the curate's wife across the way. They have the
rector to tea twice a year, and keep a page-boy, and are visited by two baronets' wives. They
devoted themselves to the education of their orphan niece, and I think I may say without boasting
that Mrs. Lombard's conversation shows marked traces of the advantages she enjoyed."

Mrs. Lombard colored with pleasure.

"I was telling Mr. Wyant that my aunts were very particular."

"Quite so, my dear; and did you mention that they never sleep in anything but linen, and that
Miss Sophia puts away the furs and blankets every spring with her own hands? Both those facts
are interesting to the student of human nature." Doctor Lombard glanced at his watch. "But
we are missing an incomparable moment; the light is perfect at this hour."

Wyant rose, and the doctor led him through the tapestried door and down the passageway.

The light was, in fact, perfect, and the picture shone with an inner radiancy, as though a
lamp burned behind the soft screen of the lady's flesh. Every detail of the foreground detached
itself with jewel-like precision. Wyant noticed a dozen accessories which had escaped him on
the previous day.

He drew out his note-book, and the doctor, who had dropped his sardonic grin for a look of
devout contemplation, pushed a chair forward, and seated himself on a carved settle against
the wall.

"Now, then," he said, "tell Clyde what you can; but the letter killeth."

He sank down, his hands hanging on the arm of the settle like the claws of a dead bird, his
eyes fixed on Wyant's notebook with the obvious intention of detecting any attempt at a surreptitious
sketch.

Wyant, nettled at this surveillance, and disturbed by the speculations which Doctor Lombard's
strange household excited, sat motionless for a few minutes, staring first at the picture and
then at the blank pages of the note-book. The thought that Doctor Lombard was enjoying his
discomfiture at length roused him, and he began to write.

He was interrupted by a knock on the iron door. Doctor Lombard rose to unlock it, and his daughter
entered.

She bowed hurriedly to Wyant, without looking at him.

"Father, had you forgotten that the man from Monte Amiato was to come back this morning with
an answer about the bas-relief? He is here now; he says he can't wait."

"The devil!" cried her father impatiently. "Didn't you tell him--"

"Yes; but he says he can't come back. If you want to see him you must come now."

"Then you think there's a chance?--"

She nodded.

He turned and looked at Wyant, who was writing assiduously.

"You will stay here, Sybilla; I shall be back in a moment."

He hurried out, locking the door behind him.

