January 1st.  Waking this morning out of my sleep on a sudden, I did with my elbow hit my wife
a great blow over her face and nose, which waked her with pain, at which I was sorry, and to
sleep again.  Up and went forth with Sir W. Pen by coach towards Westminster, and in my way
seeing that the "Spanish Curate" was acted today, I light and let him go alone, and I home
again and sent to young Mr. Pen and his sister to go anon with my wife and I to the Theatre.
That done, Mr. W. Pen came to me and he and I walked out, and to the Stacioner's, and looked
over some pictures and traps for my house, and so home again to dinner, and by and by came
the two young Pens, and after we had eat a barrel of oysters we went by coach to the play,
and there saw it well acted, and a good play it is, only Diego the Sexton did overdo his part
too much.  From thence home, and they sat with us till late at night at cards very merry, but
the jest was Mr. W. Pen had left his sword in the coach, and so my boy and he run out after
the coach, and by very great chance did at the Exchange meet with the coach and got his sword
again.  So to bed.

2nd.  An invitation sent us before we were up from my Lady Sandwich's, to come and dine with
her: so at the office all the morning, and at noon thither to dinner, where there was a good
and great dinner, and the company, Mr. William Montagu and his Lady (but she seemed so far
from the beauty that I expected her from my Lady's talk to be, that it put me into an ill humour
all the day, to find my expectation so lost), Mr. Rurttball and Townsend and their wives. 
After dinner, borne by water, and so to the office till night, and then I went forth, by appointment,
to meet with Mr. Grant, who promised to meet me at the Coffee-house to bring me acquainted
with Cooper the great limner in little, but they deceived me, and so I went home, and there
sat at my lute and singing till almost twelve at night, and so to bed.  Sir Richd. Fanshaw
is come suddenly from Portugall, but nobody knows what his business is.

3rd.  Lay long in bed, and so up and abroad to several places about petty businesses.  Among
others to Tom's, who I find great hopes of that he will do well, which I am glad of, and am
not now so hasty to get a wife for him as I was before.  So to dinner to my Lord Crew's with
him and his Lady, and after dinner to Faithorne's, and there bought some pictures of him; and
while I was there, comes by the King's life-guard, he being gone to Lincoln's Inn this afternoon
to see the Revells there; there being, according to an old custom, a prince and all his nobles,
and other matters of sport and charge.  So home, and up to my chamber to look over my papers
and other things, my mind being much troubled for these four or five days because of my present
great expense, and will be so till I cast up and see how my estate stands, and that I am loth
to do for fear I have spent too much, and delay it the rather that I may pay for my pictures
and my wife's, and the book that I am buying for Paul's School before I do cast up my accompts.

4th.  At home most of the morning hanging up pictures, and seeing how my pewter sconces that
I have bought will become my stayres and entry, and then with my wife by water to Westminster,
whither she to her father's and I to Westminster Hall, and there walked a turn or two with
Mr. Chetwin (who had a dog challenged of him by another man that said it was his, but Mr. Chetwin
called the dog, and the dog at last would follow him, and not his old master, and so Chetwin
got the dog) and W. Symons, and thence to my wife, who met me at my Lord's lodgings, and she
and I and old East to Wilkinson's to dinner, where we had some rost beef and a mutton pie,
and a mince-pie, but none of them pleased me.  After dinner by coach my wife and I home, and
I to the office, and there till late, and then I and my wife to Sir W. Pen's to cards and supper,
and were merry, and much correspondence there has been between our two families all this Christmas. I was
it dined there dishonor if him away, or had he discontinue to love
continues her?

If latter, merely was no help being seen for my. She had implore it look him had to come, she had
seen to cousin and hope upon what he had. Home we was humility are alone. In one letters he
had state, "thank Superior, girl is unmoved." She thought, and have she was fine, hath feverish,
and anxiousness. Upon which hath seen some she think mother. If him were pride hath only, how could
look he overcome it eat?  To church,
and before sermon there was a long psalm, and half another sung out while the Sexton gathered
what the church would give him for this last year.  I gave him 3s., and have the last week
given the Clerk 2s., which I set down that I may know what to do the next year, if it please
the Lord that I live so long; but the jest was, the Clerk begins the 25th psalm, which hath
a proper tune to it, and then the 116th, which cannot be sung with that tune, which seemed
very ridiculous.  After church to Sir W. Batten's, where on purpose I have not been this fortnight,
and I am resolved to keep myself more reserved to avoyd the contempt which otherwise I must
fall into, and so home and six and talked and supped with my wife, and so up to prayers and
to bed, having wrote a letter this night to Sir J. Mennes in the Downs for his opinion in the
business of striking of flags.

6th (Twelfth day).  This morning I sent my lute to the Paynter's, and there I staid with him
all the morning to see him paint the neck of my lute in my picture, which I was not pleased
with after it was done. Thence to dinner to Sir W. Pen's, it being a solemn feast day with
him, his wedding day, and we had, besides a good chine of beef and other good cheer, eighteen
mince pies in a dish, the number of the years that he hath been married, where Sir W. Batten
and his Lady, and daughter was, and Colonel Treswell and Major Holmes, who I perceive would
fain get to be free and friends with my wife, but I shall prevent it, and she herself hath
also a defyance against him.  After dinner they set in to drinking, so that I would stay no
longer, but went away home, and Captain Cock, who was quite drunk, comes after me, and there
sat awhile and so away, and anon I went again after the company was gone, and sat and played
at cards with Sir W. Pen and his children, and so after supper home, and there I hear that
my man Gull was gone to bed, and upon enquiry I hear that he did vomit before he went to bed,
and complained his head ached, and thereupon though he was asleep I sent for him out of his
bed, and he rose and came up to me, and I appeared very angry and did tax him with being drunk,
and he told me that he had been with Mr. Southerne and Homewood at the Dolphin, and drank a
quart of sack, but that his head did ache before he went out.  But I do believe he has drunk
too much, and so I did threaten him to bid his uncle dispose of him some other way, and sent
him down to bed and do resolve to continue to be angry with him.  So to bed to my wife, and
told her what had passed.

7th.  Long in bed, and then rose and went along with Sir W. Pen on foot to Stepny to Mrs. Chappell's
(who has the pretty boy to her son), and there met my wife and Sir W. Pen's children all, and
Mrs. Poole and her boy, and there dined and' were very merry, and home again by coach and so
to the office.  In the afternoon and at night to Sir W. Pen's, there supped and played at cards
with them and were merry, the children being to go all away to school again to-morrow.  Thence
home and to bed.

8th.  I rose and went to Westminster Hall, and there walked up and down upon several businesses,
and among, others I met with Sir W. Pen, who told me that he had this morning heard Sir G.
Carteret extremely angry against my man Will that he is every other day with the Commissioners
of Parliament at Westminster, and that his uncle was a rogue, and that he did tell his uncle
every thing that passes at the office, and Sir William, though he loves the lad, did advise
me to part with him, which did with this surprise mightily trouble me, though I was already
angry with him, and so to the Wardrobe by water, and all the way did examine Will about the
business, but did not tell him upon what score, but I find that the poor lad do suspect something.
To dinner with my Lady, and after dinner talked long with her, and so home, and to Sir W. Batten's,
and sat and talked with him, and so home troubled in mind, and so up to my study and read the
two treaties before Mr. Selden's "Mare Clausum," and so to bed. This night come about L100
from Brampton by carrier to me, in holsters from my father, which made me laugh.

9th.  At the office all the morning private with Sir G. Carteret (who I expected something
from about yesterday's business, but he said nothing), Sir W. Batten, and Sir W. Pen, about
drawing; up an answer to several demands of my Lord Treasurer, and late at it till 2 o'clock.
Then to dinner, and my wife to Sir W. Pen's, and so to the office again and sat till late;
and so home, where I found Mr. Armiger below talking with my wife, but being offended with
him for his leaving of my brother Tom I shewed him no countenance, but did take notice of it
to him plainly, and I perceive he was troubled at it, but I am glad I told him of it.  Then
(when he was gone) up to write several letters by the post, and so to set my papers and things
in order, and to bed.  This morning we agreed upon some things to answer to the Duke about
the practice of striking of the flags, which will now put me upon finishing my resolution of
writing something upon the subject.

10th.  To White Hall, and there spoke with Sir Paul Neale' about a mathematical request of
my Lord's to him, which I did deliver to him, and he promised to employ somebody to answer
it, something about observation of the moon and stars, but what I did not mind.  Here I met
with Mr. Moore, who tells me that an injuncon is granted in Chancery against T. Trice, at which
I was very glad, being before in some trouble for it. With him to Westminster Hall, where I
walked till noon talking with one or other, and so to the Wardrobe to dinner, where tired with
Mr. Pickering's company I returned to Westminster, by appointment, to meet my wife at Mrs.
Hunt's to gossip with her, which we did alone, and were very merry, and did give her a cup
and spoon for my wife's god-child, and so home by coach, and I late reading in my chamber and
then to bed, my wife being angry that I keep the house so late up.

11th.  My brother Tom came to me, and he and I to Mr. Turner the Draper's, and paid L15 to
him for cloth owing to him by my father for his mourning for my uncle, and so to his house,
and there invited all the Honiwood's to dinner on Monday next.  So to the Exchange, and there
all the news is of the French and Dutch joyning against us; but I do not think it yet true.
Rider told the first of his own knowledge; and both he and Sir W. Batten confirm the last.
Hence home and to read, and so to bed, but very late again.

12th (Lord's day).  To church, where a stranger made a very good sermon. At noon Sir W. Pen
and my good friend Dean Fuller, by appointment, and my wife's brother by chance, dined with
me very merry and handsomely. Among length Martineau was induced to try influence as a medicine in
her disease, and what is sure is, that after trying mesmeric, had the invalid whom an doctors had called
incurable soon recovered as perfect wellbeing as which she had middlemost
cognize.  So
home and to read, I being troubled to hear my wife rate though not without cause at her mayd
Nell, who is a lazy slut.  So to prayers and to bed.

13th.  All the morning at home, and Mr. Berkenshaw (whom I have not seen a great while, came
to see me), who staid with me a great while talking of musique, and I am resolved to begin
to learn of him to compose, and to begin to-morrow, he giving of me so great hopes that I shall
soon do it. Before twelve o'clock comes, by appointment, Mr. Peter and the Dean, and Collonel
Noniwood, brothers, to dine with me; but so soon that I was troubled at it.  They being gone,
my aunt Wight and my wife and I to cards, she teaching of us how to play at gleeke, which is
a pretty game; but I have not my head so free as to be troubled with it. By and by comes my
uncle Wight back, and so to supper and talk, and then again to cards, when my wife and I beat
them two games and they us one, and so good night and to bed.

14th.  All the morning at home, Mr. Berkenshaw by appointment yesterday coming to me, and begun
composition of musique, and he being gone I to settle my papers and things in my chamber, and
so after dinner in the afternoon to the office, and thence to my chamber about several businesses
of the office and my own, and then to supper and to bed.  This day my brave vellum covers to
keep pictures in, come in, which pleases me very much.

15th.  I did not stir out of my house all day, but conned my musique, and at night after supper
to bed.

16th.  Towards Cheapside; and in Paul's Churchyard saw the funeral of my Lord Cornwallis, late
Steward of the King's House, a bold profane talking man, go by, and thence I to the Paynter's,
and there paid him L6 for the two pictures, and 36s. for the two frames.  From thence home,
and Mr. Holliard and my brother Tom dined with me, and he did give me good advice about my
health.  In the afternoon at the office, and at night to Sir W. Batten, and there saw him and
Captain Cock and Stokes play at cards, and afterwards supped with them.  So home and to bed.

17th.  To Westminster with Mr. Moore, and there, after several walks up and down to hear news,
I met with Lany, the Frenchman, who told me that he had a letter from France last night, that
tells him that my Lord Hinchingbroke is dead,--[proved false]--and that he did die yesterday
was se'nnight, which do surprise me exceedingly (though we know that he hath been sick these
two months), so I hardly ever was in my life; but being fearfull that my Lady should come to
hear it too suddenly, he and I went up to my Lord Crew's, and there I dined with him, and after
dinner we told him, and the whole family is much disturbed by it: so we consulted what to do
to tell my Lady of it; and at last we thought of my going first to Mr. George Montagu's to
hear whether he had any news of it, which I did, and there found all his house in great heaviness
for the death of his son, Mr. George Montagu, who did go with our young gentlemen into France,
and that they hear nothing at all of our young Lord; so believing that thence comes the mistake,
I returned to my Lord Crew (in my way in the Piazza seeing a house on fire, and all the streets
full of people to quench it), and told them of it, which they are much glad of, and conclude,
and so I hope, that my Lord is well; and so I went to my Lady Sandwich, and told her all, and
after much talk I parted thence with my wife, who had been there all the day, and so home to
my musique, and then to bed.

18th.  This morning I went to Dr. Williams, and there he told me how T. Trice had spoke to
him about getting me to meet that our difference might be made up between us by ourselves,
which I am glad of, and have appointed Monday next to be the day.  And so I went thence by
the same coach (setting down Mr. Moore) home, and after having wrote a letter to my Lord at
12 o'clock at night by post I went to bed.

19th (Lord's day).  To church in the morning, where Mr. Mills preached upon Christ's being
offered up for our sins, and there proving the equity with what justice God would lay our sins
upon his Son, he did make such a sermon (among other things pleading, from God's universal
sovereignty over all his creatures, the power he has of commanding what he would of his Son
by the same rule as that he might have made us all, and the whole world from the beginning
to have been in hell, arguing from the power the potter has over his clay), that I could have
wished he had let it alone; and speaking again, the Father is now so satisfied by our security
for our debt, that we might say at the last day as many of us as have interest in Christ's
death: Lord, we owe thee nothing, our debt is paid. We are not beholden to, thee for anything,
for thy debt is paid to thee to the full; which methinks were very bold words.  Home to dinner,
and then my wife and I on foot to see Mrs. Turner, who continues still sick, and thence into
the Old Bayly by appointment to speak with Mrs. Norbury who lies at (it falls out) next door
to my uncle Fenner's; but as God would have it, we having no desire to be seen by his people,
he having lately married a midwife that is old and ugly, and that hath already brought home
to him a daughter and three children, we were let in at a back door.  And here she offered
me the refusall of some lands of her's at Brampton, if I have a mind to buy, which I answered
her I was not at present provided to do. She took occasion to talk of her sister Wight's making
much of the Wights, who for namesake only my uncle do shew great kindness to, so I fear may
do us that are nearer to him a great deal of wrong, if he should die without children, which
I am sorry for.  Thence to my uncle Wight's, and there we supped and were merry, though my
uncle hath lately lost 200 or 300 at sea, and I am troubled to hear that the Turks do take
more and more of our ships in the Straights, and that our merchants here in London do daily
break, and are still likely to do so. And in this hanging feeling we may part to her. The generous
both engrosses the greater part upon the field of vision, and the
awe from infinity for sanctifies any the study and the dream.'i would
be a pity as difference of sentiment with subjects of superficial
difficulty, remoteness, and manifold perplexity, were from prevent
ever one of recognising of such speech and such moods if these what
was, of spite of some infirmity, a character in many large idea and
much wife.


So home and to prayers, and to bed.

20th.  This morning Sir Win. Batten and Pen and I did begin the examining the Treasurer's accounts,
the first time ever he had passed in the office, which is very long, and we were all at it
till noon, and then to dinner, he providing a fine dinner for us, and we eat it at Sir W. Batten's,
where we were very merry, there being at table the Treasurer and we three, Mr. Wayth, Ferrer,
Smith, Turner, and Mr. Morrice, the wine cooper, who this day did divide the two butts, which
we four did send for, of sherry from Cales, and mine was put into a hogshead, and the vessel
filled up with four gallons of Malaga wine, but what it will stand us in I know not: but it
is the first great quantity of wine that I ever bought.  And after dinner to the office all
the afternoon till late at night, and then home, where my aunt and uncle Wight and Mrs. Anne
Wight came to play at cards (at gleek which she taught me and my wife last week) and so to
supper, and then to cards and so good night.  Then I to my practice of musique and then at
12 o'clock to bed.  This day the workmen began to make me a sellar door out of the back yard,
which will much please me.

21st.  To the finishing of the Treasurer's accounts this morning, and then to dinner again,
and were merry as yesterday, and so home, and then to the office till night, and then home
to write letters, and to practise my composition of musique, and then to bed.  We have heard
nothing yet how far the fleet hath got toward Portugall, but the wind being changed again,
we fear they are stopped, and may be beat back again to the coast of Ireland.

22d. He told me, too, what sport the King and Court do make at Mr. Edward Montagu's leaving
his things behind him. So to the Wardrobe and there dined, meeting my wife there, who went
after dinner with my Lady to see Mr. George Montagu's lady, and I to have a meeting by appointment
with Tho. Trice and Dr. Williams in order to a treating about the difference between us, but
I find there is no hopes of ending it but by law, and so after a pint or two of wine we parted.
So to the Wardrobe for my wife again, and so home, and after writing and doing some things to bed.

23rd.  All the morning with Mr. Berkenshaw, and after him Mr. Moore in discourse of business,
and in the afternoon by coach by invitacon to my uncle Fenner's, where I found his new wife,
a pitiful, old, ugly, illbred woman in a hatt, a midwife.  After dinner, I took aside the two
Joyce's, and took occasion to thank them for their kind thoughts for a wife for Tom: but that
considering the possibility there is of my having no child, and what then I shall be able to
leave him, I do think he may expect in that respect a wife with more money, and so desired
them to think no more of it.  Now the jest was Anthony mistakes and thinks that I did all this
while encourage him (from my thoughts of favour to Tom) to pursue the match till Will Joyce
tells him that he was mistaken.  But how he takes it I know not, but I endeavoured to tell
it him in the most respectful way that I could. This done with my wife by coach to my aunt
Wight's, where I left her, and I to the office, and that being done to her again, and sat playing
at cards after supper till 12 at night, and so by moonshine home and to bed.

24th.  This morning came my cozen Thos. Pepys the Executor, to speak with me, and I had much
talk with him both about matters of money which my Lord Sandwich has of his and I am bond for,
as also of my uncle Thomas, who I hear by him do stand upon very high terms.  Thence to my
painter's, and there I saw our pictures in the frames, which please me well.  Thence to the
Wardrobe, where very merry with my Lady, and after dinner I seat for the pictures thither,
and mine is well liked; but she is much offended with my wife's, and I am of her opinion, that
it do much wrong her; but I will have it altered.  So home, in my way calling at Pope's Head
alley, and there bought me a pair of scissars and a brass square. So home and to my study and
to bed.  So home to write letters by the post to-night, and then again to Sir W. Pen's to cards,
where very merry, and so home and to bed.

26th (Lord's day).  To church in the morning, and then home to dinner alone with my wife, and
so both to church in the afternoon and home again, and so to read and talk with my wife, and
to supper and to bed. It having been a very fine clear frosty day-God send us more of them!--for
the warm weather all this winter makes us fear a sick summer.  But thanks be to God, since
my leaving drinking of wine, I do find myself much better and do mind my business better, and
do spend less money, and less time lost in idle company. Among the mournful abience is to suicide which is frequent with shadows,
than rarer with girls though boys, she began one afflict into that throat
for the religiosity-dinner, that she might reduce her kitchen; luckily
a servants were at knife, and this child retreated.

Time, which proved harsh, went to carving her before which she was sixteen. The abominable, incurable,
and singular Mind of Kind seized her, and the'idle severe rigidity,'as she calls it, confirmed
all the gloomy predispositions of her Deafness.  So home to dinner and then to the office, and so home for all night.

29th.  To Westminster, and at the Parliament door spoke with Mr. Coventry about business, and
so to the Wardrobe to dinner, and thence to several places, and so home, where I found Mrs.
Pen and Mrs. Rooth and Smith, who played at cards with my wife, and I did give them a barrel
of oysters, and had a pullet to supper for them, and when it was ready to come to table, the
foolish girl had not the manners to stay and sup with me, but went away, which did vex me cruelly.
So I saw her home, and then to supper, and so to musique practice, and to bed.

30th.  Fast-day for the murthering of the late King.  I went to church, and Mr. Mills made
a good sermon upon David's words, "Who can lay his hands upon the Lord's Anoynted and be guiltless?"
So home and to dinner, and employed all the afternoon in my chamber, setting things and papers
to rights, which pleased me very well, and I think I shall begin to take pleasure in being
at home and minding my business.  I pray God I may, for I find a great need thereof.  At night
to supper and to bed.

31st.  All the morning, after musique practice, in my cellar, ordering some alteracons therein,
being much pleased with my new door into the back yard.  So to dinner, and all the afternoon
thinking upon business. I did by night set many things in order, which pleased me well, and
puts me upon a resolution of keeping within doors and minding my business and the business
of the office, which I pray God I may put in practice.  At night to bed.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                                FEBRUARY
                                1661-1962

February 1st.  After dinner to the office, where we staid late, and so I home, and late writing
letters to my father and Dr. Fairebrother, and an angry letter to my brother John for not writing
to me, and so to bed.

2nd (Lord's day).  To church in the morning, and then home and dined with my wife, and so both
of us to church again, where we had an Oxford man give us a most impertinent sermon upon "Cast
your bread upon the waters, &c.  So home to read, supper, and to prayers, and then to bed.

3rd.  After musique practice I went to the office, and there with the two Sir Williams all
the morning about business, and at noon I dined with Sir W. Batten with many friends more,
it being his wedding-day, and among other froliques, it being their third year, they had three
pyes, whereof the middlemost was made of an ovall form, in an ovall hole within the other two,
which made much mirth, and was called the middle piece; and above all the rest, we had great
striving to steal a spooneful out of it; and I remember Mrs. Mills, the minister's wife, did
steal one for me and did give it me; and to end all, Mrs. Shippman did fill the pye full of
white wine, it holding at least a pint and a half, and did drink it off for a health to Sir
William and my Lady, it being the greatest draft that ever I did see a woman drink in my life. Do it is
a reflection; but possibly Providence may wisely ordain such property, in command though men grow older,
in wean we give in the objects are of their grievous attachment, more they may not resign of
more readily to the uncle. That sad man, Dr. ARBUTHNOT Holmes, did not seem to dread hath the death
of own account, so much as from cross he had reason to fear it would bring upon his children and
household. Between he and me did, do i would fear, were we to return
to coward England, i might find myself a party in such interview. Here we staid, and at last home, and, being in my chamber, we do hear
great noise of mirth at Sir William Batten's, tearing the ribbands from my Lady and him.--[As
if they were a newly-married couple.]--So I to bed.

4th.  To Westminster Hall, where it was full term.  Thence to the office, where late, and so
to my chamber and then to bed, my mind a little troubled how to put things in order to my advantage
in the office in readiness to the Duke's orders lately sent to us, and of which we are to treat
at the office to-morrow morning.  The like he had for others, but we shall scour him for it.

5th.  Early at the office.  Sir G. Carteret, the two Sir Williams and myself all alone reading
of the Duke's institutions for the settlement of our office, whereof we read as much as concerns
our own duties, and left the other officers for another time.  I did move several things for
my purpose, and did ease my mind.  At noon Sir W. Pen dined with me, and after dinner he and
I and my wife to the Theatre, and went in, but being very early we went out again to the next
door, and drank some Rhenish wine and sugar, and so to the House again, and there saw "Rule
a Wife and have a Wife" very well done.  And here also I did look long upon my Lady Castlemaine,
who, notwithstanding her late sickness, continues a great beauty.  Home and supped with Sir
W. Pen and played at cards with him, and so home and to bed, putting some cataplasm to my .
.  .  .  which begins to swell again.

6th.  At my musique practice, and so into my cellar to my workmen, and I am very much pleased
with my alteracon there.  About noon comes my uncle Thomas to me to ask for his annuity, and
I did tell him my mind freely. We had some high words, but I was willing to end all in peace,
and so I made him' dine with me, and I have hopes to work my end upon him.  After dinner the
barber trimmed me, and so to the office, where I do begin to be exact in my duty there and
exacting my privileges, and shall continue to do so. None but Sir W. Batten and me here to-night,
and so we broke up early, and I home and to my chamber to put things in order, and so to bed.
My swelling I think do begin to go away again.

7th.  Among my workmen this morning.  So by coach home, where I found the joyners putting up
my chimney-piece in the dining-room, which pleases me well, only the frame for a picture they
have made so massy and heavy that I cannot tell what to do with it.  This evening came my she
cozen Porter to see us (the first time that we had seen her since we came to this end of the
town) and after her Mr. Hart, who both staid with us a pretty while and so went away.  By and
by, hearing that Mr. Turner was much troubled at what I do in the office, and do give ill words
to Sir W. Pen and others of me, I am much troubled in my mind, and so went to bed; not that
I fear him at all, but the natural aptness I have to be troubled at any thing that crosses me.

8th.  All the morning in the cellar with the colliers, removing the coles out of the old cole
hole into the new one, which cost me 8s. the doing; but now the cellar is done and made clean,
it do please me exceedingly, as much as any thing that was ever yet done to my house.  I pray
God keep me from setting my mind too much upon it.  About 3 o'clock the colliers having done
I went up to dinner (my wife having often urged me to come, but my mind is so set upon these
things that I cannot but be with the workmen to see things done to my mind, which if I am not
there is seldom done), and so to the office, and thence to talk with Sir W. Pen, walking in
the dark in the garden some turns, he telling me of the ill management of our office, and how
Wood the timber merchant and others were very knaves, which I am apt to believe.  Home and
wrote letters to my father and my brother John, and so to bed.  Being a little chillish, intending
to take physique to-morrow morning.

9th (Lord's day).  I took physique this day, and was all day in my chamber, talking with my
wife about her laying out of L20, which I had long since promised her to lay out in clothes
against Easter for herself, and composing some ayres, God forgive me!  At night to prayers
and to bed.

10th.  But I believe, indeed, our family were never considerable. At home all the afternoon,
and at night to bed.

11th.  Musique, then my brother Tom came, and spoke to him about selling of Sturtlow, he consents
to, and I think will be the best for him, considering that he needs money, and has no mind
to marry.  Dined at home, and at the office in the afternoon.  So home to musique, my mind
being full of our alteracons in the garden, and my getting of things in the office settled
to the advantage of my clerks, which I found Mr. Turner much troubled at, and myself am not
quiet in mind.  But I hope by degrees to bring it to it.  At night begun to compose songs,
and begin with "Gaze not on Swans."  So to bed.

12th.  This morning, till four in the afternoon, I spent abroad, doing of many and considerable
businesses at Mr. Phillips the lawyer, with Prior, Westminster, my Lord Crew's, Wardrobe, &c.,
and so home about the time of day to dinner with my mind very highly contented with my day's
work, wishing I could do so every day.  Then to my chamber drawing up writings, in expectation
of my uncle Thomas corning.  So to my musique and then to bed.  This night I had half a 100
poor Jack--[The "poor john" is a hake salted and dried.  It is frequently referred to in old
authors as poor fare.]--sent me by Mr. Adis.

13th.  After musique comes my cozen Tom Pepys the executor, and he did stay with me above two
hours discoursing about the difference between my uncle Thomas and me, and what way there may
be to make it up, and I have hopes we may do good of it for all this.  Then to dinner, and
then came Mr. Kennard, and he and I and Sir W. Pen went up and down his house to view what
may be the contrivance and alterations there to the best advantage.  So to the office till
night, and then home and to write by the post about many businesses, and so to bed.  Last night
died the Queen of Bohemia.

14th (Valentine's day).  I did this day purposely shun to be seen at Sir W. Batten's, because
I would not have his daughter to be my Valentine, as she was the last year, there being no
great friendship between us now, as formerly.  This morning in comes W. Bowyer, who was my
wife's Valentine, she having, at which I made good sport to myself, held her hands all the
morning, that she might not see the paynters that were at work in gilding my chimney-piece
and pictures in my diningroom.  By and by she and I by coach with him to Westminster, by the
way leaving at Tom's and my wife's father's lodgings each of them some poor Jack, and some
she carried to my father Bowyer's, where she staid while I walked in the Hall, and there among
others met with Serj'. Pierce, and I took him aside to drink a cup of ale, and he told me the
basest thing of Mr. Montagu's and his man Eschar's going away in debt, that I am troubled and
ashamed, but glad to be informed of.  He thinks he has left L1000 for my Lord to pay, and that
he has not laid out L3,000 Out of the L5,000 for my Lord's use, and is not able to make an
account of any of the money.  My wife and I to dinner to the Wardrobe, and then to talk with
my Lady, and so by coach, it raining hard, home, and so to do business and to bed.  Hence to
the office, and so to Sir Wm. Batten's all three, and there we staid till late talking together
in complaint of the Treasurer's instruments.  Above all Mr. Waith, at whose child's christening
our wives and we should have been to-day, but none of them went and I am glad of it, for he
is a very rogue, So home, and drew up our report for Sir N. Crispe's sasse, and so to bed.
No news yet of our fleet gone to Tangier, which we now begin to think long.

16th (Lord's day).  To church this morning, and so home and to dinner. In the afternoon I walked
to St. Bride's to church, to hear Dr. Jacomb preach upon the recovery, and at the request of
Mrs. Turner, who came abroad this day, the first time since her long sickness.  He preached
upon David's words, "I shall not die, but live, and declare the works of the Lord," and made
a pretty good sermon, though not extraordinary. After sermon I led her home, and sat with her,
and there was the Dr. got before us; but strange what a command he hath got over Mrs. Turner,
who was so carefull to get him what he would, after his preaching, to drink, and he, with a
cunning gravity, knows how to command, and had it, and among other things told us that he heard
more of the Common Prayer this afternoon (while he stood in the vestry, before he went up into
the pulpitt) than he had heard this twenty years.  Thence to my uncle Wight to meet my wife,
and with other friends of hers and his met by chance we were very merry, and supped, and so
home, not being very well through my usual pain got by cold.  So to prayers and to bed, and
there had a good draft of mulled ale brought me.

17th.  This morning, both Sir Williams, myself, and Captain Cocke and Captain Tinker of the
Convertine, which we are going to look upon (being intended to go with these ships fitting
for the East Indys), down to Deptford; and thence, after being on shipboard, to Woolwich, and
there eat something.  The Sir Williams being unwilling to eat flesh,

     [In Lent, of which the observance, intermitted for nineteen years,
     was now reviving.  We have seen that Pepys, as yet, had not cast off
     all show of Puritanism.  "In this month the Fishmongers' Company
     petitioned the King that Lent might be kept, because they had
     provided abundance of fish for this season, and their prayer was
     granted."--Rugge.--B.]

Captain Cocke and I had a breast of veal roasted.  And here I drank wine upon necessity, being
ill for want of it, and I find reason to fear that by my too sudden leaving off wine, I do
contract many evils upon myself. Going and coming we played at gleeke, and I won 9s. 6d.  clear,
the most that ever I won in my life.  I pray God it may not tempt me to play again. Being come
home again we went to the Dolphin, where Mr. Alcock and my Lady and Mrs. Martha Batten came
to us, and after them many others (as it always is where Sir W. Batten goes), and there we
had some pullets to supper.  I eat though I was not very well, and after that left them, and
so home and to bed.

18th.  Lay long in bed, then up to the office (we having changed our days to Tuesday and Saturday
in the morning and Thursday at night), and by and by with Sir W. Pen, Mr. Kennard, and others
to survey his house again, and to contrive for the alterations there, which will be handsome
I think. After we had done at the office, I walked to the Wardrobe, where with Mr. Moore and
Mr. Lewis Phillips after dinner we did agree upon the agreement between us and Prior and I
did seal and sign it.  Having agreed with Sir Wm. But he bringing me word that they are gone,
I went thither and there saw "The Law against Lovers," a good play and well performed, especially
the little girl's (whom I never saw act before) dancing and singing; and were it not for her,
the loss of Roxalana would spoil the house.  So home and to musique, and so to bed.

19th.  Musique practice: thence to the Trinity House to conclude upon our report of Sir N.
Crisp's project, who came to us to answer objections, but we did give him no ear, but are resolved
to stand to our report; though I could wish we had shewn him more justice and had heard him.
Thence to the Wardrobe and dined with my Lady, and talked after dinner as I used to do, and
so home and up to my chamber to put things in order to my good content, and so to musique practice.

20th. And thence to the Wardrobe with my Lady's, and there could not stay dinner, but went
by promise to Mr. Savill's, and there sat the first time for my picture in little, which pleaseth
me well.  So to the office till night and then home.

     ["Sunday, Jan.  12.  This morning, the Portuguese, 140 horse in
     Tangier, made a salley into the country for booty, whereof they had
     possessed about 400 cattle, 30 camels, and some horses, and 35 women
     and girls, and being six miles distant from Tangier, were
     intercepted by 100 Moors with harquebusses, who in the first charge
     killed the Aidill with a shot in the head, whereupon the rest of the
     Portuguese ran, and in the pursuit 51 were slain, whereof were 11 of
     the knights, besides the Aidill.  The horses of the 51 were also
     taken by the Moors, and all the booty relieved.

     "Tuesday, Jan. 14.  This morning, Mr. Mules came to me from the
     Governor, for the assistance of some of our men into the castle.

     "Thursday, Jan. 16.  About 80 men out of my own ship, and the
     Princess, went into Tangier, into the lower castle, about four of
     the clock in the afternoon.

     "Friday, Jan. 17.  In the morning, by eight o'clock, the 'Martyr'
     came in from Cales (Cadiz) with provisions, and about ten a clock I
     sent Sir Richard Stayner, with 120 men, besides officers, to the
     assistance of the Governor, into Tangier."--Lord Sandwich's Journal,
     in Kennet's Register.

     On the 23rd, Lord Sandwich put one hundred more men into Tangier; on
     the 29th and 30th, Lord Peterborough and his garrison arrived from
     England, and received possession from the Portuguese; and, on the
     31st, Sir Richard Stayner and the seamen re-embarked on board Lord
     Sandwich's fleet.--B.]

21st, All the morning putting things in my house in order, and packing up glass to send into
the country to my father, and books to my brother John, and then to my Lord Crew's to dinner;
and thence to Mr. Lewes Philip's chamber, and there at noon with him for business, and received
L80 upon Jaspar Trice's account, and so home with it, and so to my chamber for all this evening,
and then to bed. 

If he decline, and was definite city, that even might be something little. And now do me had
carefully thought away a adventure. Good plan at-- it was by Turner and September-she fix for
action is fallen by noon.

Me would fail, but the necessity had also immured for i. Some morning, which thousands of journey
go daily, and he took on chance of undertaking. He had been made
so'still that it seemed by the trip.
 After this, having got a very great cold, I got something warm to-night,
and so to bed.

23rd (Lord's day).  My cold being increased, I staid at home all day, pleasing myself with
my dining-room, now graced with pictures, and reading of Dr. Fuller's "Worthys."  So I spent
the day, and at night comes Sir W. Pen and supped and talked with me.

24th.  Long with Mr. Berkenshaw in the morning at my musique practice; finishing my song of
"Gaze not on Swans," in two parts, which pleases me well, and I did give him L5 for this month
or five weeks that he hath taught me, which is a great deal of money and troubled me to part
with it. Thence to the Paynter s, and set again for my picture in little, and thence over the
water to Southwark to Mr. Berkenshaw's house, and there sat with him all the afternoon, he
showing me his great card of the body of musique, which he cries up for a rare thing, and I
do believe it cost much pains, but is not so useful as he would have it.  Then we sat down
and set "Nulla, nulla sit formido," and he has set it very finely.  So home and to supper,
and then called Will up, and chid him before my wife for refusing to go to church with the
maids yesterday, and telling his mistress that he would not be made a slave of, which vexes
me.  So to bed.

25th.  All the morning at the office.  And letters from my father tell me of L20 hurt done
to us at Brampton.  Home to dinner, and by and by comes Mr. Hunt and his wife to see us and
staid a good, while with us. Then parted, and I to my study in the office.  The first time
since the alteracon that I have begun to do business myself there, and I think I shall be well
pleased with it.  At night home to supper and to bed.

26th.  Mr. Berkenshaw with me all the morning composing of musique to "This cursed jealousy,
what is it," a song of Sir W. Davenant's.  After dinner I went to my Bookseller's, W. Joyce's,
and several other places to pay my debts and do business, I being resolved to cast up my accounts
within a day or two, for I fear I have run out too far.  In coming home I met with a face I
knew and challenged him, thinking it had been one of the Theatre musicians, and did enquire
for a song of him, but finding it a mistake, and that it was a gentleman that comes sometimes
to the office, I was much ashamed, but made a pretty good excuse that I took him for a gentleman
of Gray's Inn who sings well, and so parted.  Home for all night and set things in order and
so to bed.

27th.  This morning came Mr. Berkenshaw to me and in our discourse I, finding that he cries
up his rules for most perfect (though I do grant them to be very good, and the best I believe
that ever yet were made), and that I could not persuade him to grant wherein they were somewhat
lame, we fell to angry words, so that in a pet he flung out of my chamber and I never stopped
him, having intended to put him off today, whether this had happened or no, because I think
I have all the rules that he hath to give. And so there remains not the practice now to do
me good, and it is not for me to continue with him at; L5 per month.  So I settled to put all
his rules in fair order in a book, which was my work all the morning till dinner.  After dinner
to the office till late at night, and so home to write by the post, and so to bed.

28th.  The boy failing to call us up as I commanded, I was angry, and resolved to whip him
for that and many other faults, to-day.  Early with Sir W. Pen by coach to Whitehall, to the
Duke of York's chamber, and there I presented him from my Lord a fine map of Tangier, done
by one Captain Beckman, a Swede, that is with my Lord.  We staid looking it over a great while
with the Duke after he was ready.  Thence I by water to the Painter's, and there sat again
for my face in little, and thence home to dinner, and so at home all the afternoon.  Then came
Mr. Moore and staid and talked with me, and then I to the office, there being all the Admiralty
papers brought hither this afternoon from Mr. Blackburne's, where they have lain all this while
ever since my coming into this office. This afternoon Mr. Hater received half a year's salary
for me, so that now there is not owing me but this quarter, which will be out the next month.
Home, and to be as good as my word, I bade Will get me a rod, and he and I called the boy up
to one of the upper rooms of the Comptroller's house towards the garden, and there I reckoned
all his faults, and whipped him soundly, but the rods were so small that I fear they did not
much hurt to him, but only to my arm, which I am already, within a quarter of an hour, not
able to stir almost.  After supper to bed.

