IN CLIVE'S COMMAND

A Story of the Fight for India

by

HERBERT STRANG

Contents

            Preface
Chapter 1:  In which the Court Leet of Market Drayton entertains
            Colonel Robert Clive; and our hero makes an acquaintance.
Chapter 2:  In which our hero overhears a conversation; and, meeting
            with the unexpected, is none the less surprised and offended.
Chapter 3:  In which Mr. Marmaduke Diggle talks of the Golden East; and
            our hero interrupts an interview, and dreams dreams.
Chapter 4:  In which blows are exchanged; and our hero, setting forth
            upon his travels, scents an adventure.
Chapter 5:  In which Job Grinsell explains; and three visitors come by
            night to the Four Alls.
Chapter 6:  In which the reader becomes acquainted with William Bulger and
            other sailor men; and our hero as a squire of dames acquits
            himself with credit.
Chapter 7:  In which Colonel Clive suffers an unrecorded defeat; and
            our hero finds food for reflection.
Chapter 8:  In which several weeks are supposed to elapse; and our hero
            is discovered in the Doldrums.
Chapter 9:  In which the Good Intent makes a running fight: Mr. Toley
            makes a suggestion.
Chapter 10: In which our hero arrives in the Golden East, and Mr.
            Diggle presents him to a native prince.
Chapter 11: In which the Babu tells the story of King Vikramaditya; and the
            discerning reader may find more than appears on the surface.
Chapter 12: In which our hero is offered freedom at the price of honor;
            and Mr. Diggle finds that others can quote Latin on occasion.
Chapter 13: In which Mr. Diggle illustrates his argument; and there
            are strange doings in Gheria harbor.
Chapter 14: In which seven bold men light a big bonfire; and the
            Pirate finds our hero a bad bargain.
Chapter 15: In which our hero weathers a storm; and prepares for squalls.
Chapter 16: In which a mutiny is quelled in a minute; and our Babu
            proves himself a man of war.
Chapter 17: In which our hero finds himself among friends; and
            Colonel Clive prepares to astonish Angria.
Chapter 18: In which Angria is astonished; and our hero begins to pay
            off old scores.
Chapter 19: In which the scene changes; the dramatis personae
            remaining the same.
Chapter 20: In which there are recognitions and explanations; and our
            hero meets one Coja Solomon, of Cossimbazar.
Chapter 21: In which Coja Solomon finds dishonesty the worse policy;
            and a journey down the Hugli little to his liking.
Chapter 22: In which is given a full, true, and particular account of
            the Battle of the Carts.
Chapter 23: In which there are many moving events; and our hero finds
            himself a cadet of John Company.
Chapter 24: In which the danger of judging by appearance is notably
            exemplified.
Chapter 25: In which our hero embarks on a hazardous mission; and
            Monsieur Sinfray's khansaman makes a confession.
Chapter 26: In which presence of mind is shown to be next best to
            absence of body.
Chapter 27: In which an officer of the Nawab disappears; and Bulger
            reappears.
Chapter 28: In which Captain Barker has cause to rue the day when he met
            Mr. Diggle; and our hero continues to wipe off old scores.
Chapter 29: In which our hero does not win the Battle of Plassey:
            but, where all do well, gains as much glory as the rest.
Chapter 30: In which Coja Solomon reappears: and gives our hero
            valuable information.
Chapter 31: In which friends meet, and part: and our hero hints a proposal.
Chapter 32: In which the curtain falls to the sound of wedding bells:
            and our hero comes to his own.

Preface

I have not attempted in this story to give a full account of the career of Lord Clive. That
has been done by my old friend, Mr. Henty, in "With Clive in India." It has always seemed to
me that a single book provides too narrow a canvas for the display of a life so full and varied
as Clive's, and that a work of fiction is bound to suffer, structurally and in detail, from
the compression of the events of a lifetime within so restricted a space. I have therefore
chosen two outstanding events in the history of India--the capture of Gheria and the battle
of Plassey--and have made them the pivot of a personal story of adventure. The whole action
of the present work is comprised in the years from 1754 to 1757.

But while this book is thus rather a romance with a background of history than an historical
biography with an admixture of fiction, the reader may be assured that the information its
pages contain is accurate. I have drawn freely upon the standard authorities: Orme, Ives, Grose,
the lives of  Clive by Malcolm and Colonel Malleson, and many other works; in particular the
monumental volumes by Mr. S.C. Hill recently published, "Bengal in 1756-7," which give a very
full, careful and clear account of that notable year, with a mass of most useful and interesting
documents. The maps of Bengal, Fort William and Plassey are taken from Mr. Hill's work by kind
permission of the Secretary of State for India. I have to thank also Mr. T. P. Marshall, of
Newport, for some valuable notes on the history and topography of Market Drayton.

For several years I myself lived within a stone's throw of the scene of the tragedy of the
Black Hole; and though at that time I had no intention of writing a story for boys, I hope
that the impressions of Indian life, character and scenery then gained have helped to create
an atmosphere and to give reality to my picture. History is more than a mere record of events;
and I shall be satisfied if the reader gets from these pages an idea, however imperfect, of
the conditions of life under which all empire builders labored in India a hundred and fifty
years ago.

One  fine  autumn  evening, in the year 1754, a country cart jogged eastwards  into  Market
Drayton  at  the  heels  of  a  thick-set, shaggy-fetlocked  and broken-winded cob. The low
tilt, worn and ill fitting, swayed widely with the motion, scarcely avoiding the hats of the
two men who sat side by side on the front seat, and who, to a person watching  their  approach,
would have appeared as dark figures in a tottering archway, against a background of crimson sky.

As the vehicle jolted through Shropshire Street, the creakings of its unsteady wheels mingled
with a deep humming, as of innumerable bees, proceeding  from  the  heart of the town. Turning
the corner by the butchers' bulks into the High Street, the cart came to an abrupt stop. In
front, from the corn market, a large wooden structure in the center of the street, to the Talbot
Inn, stretched a dense mass of people; partly townfolk, as might be discerned by their dress,
partly country folk who, having come in from outlying villages to market, had presumably been
kept in the town by their curiosity or the fair weather.

"We'n better goo round about, Measter," said the driver, to the passenger at his side. "Summat's
afoot down yander."

"You're a wise man, to be sure. Something's afoot, as you truly say. And, being troubled from
my youth up with an inquiring nose, I'll e'en step forward and smell out the occasion. Do you
bide here, my Jehu, till I come back."

"Why, I will, then, Measter, but my name binna Jehu. 'Tis plain Tummus."

"You don't say so! Now I come to think of it, it suits you better than Jehu, for the Son of
Nimshi drove furiously. Well, Tummus, I will not keep you long; this troublesome nose of mine,
I dare say, will soon be satisfied."

By this time he had slipped down from his seat, and was walking toward the throng. Now that
he was upon his feet, he showed himself to be more than common tall, spare and loose jointed.
His face was lean and swarthy, his eyes black and restless; his well-cut lips even now wore
the same smile as when he mischievously misnamed his driver. Though he wore the usual dress
of the Englishman of his day--frock, knee breeches and buckle shoes,  none  of  them  in their
first youth--there was a something outlandish about him, in the bright yellow of his neckcloth
and the red feather stuck at a jaunty angle into the ribbon of his hat; and Tummus, as he looked
curiously after his strange passenger, shook his head and bit the straw in his mouth, and muttered:

"Ay, it binna on'y the nose, 't binna on'y the nose, with his Jehus an' such."

Meanwhile the man strode rapidly along, reached the fringe of the crowd, and appeared to make
his way through its mass without difficulty, perhaps by reason of his commanding height, possibly
by the aforesaid quaintness of his aspect, and the smile which forbade any one to regard him
as an aggressor. He went steadily on until he came opposite to the Talbot Inn. At that moment
a stillness fell upon the crowd; every voice was hushed; every head was craned towards the
open windows of the inn's assembly room. 

The revolver was shut again yet, had firmly of this Boulou'element'rattle.

Clotho Bishop but Regie looked so at a regretful.

"i send his Priest," state Regie, in-- happening, "and i am violently
ill."

"i
should not laugh to speech with ajar," elbowed the Priest.

"she is quite right that she could'Regie had very like." The revolver was
alone but same, but say same passion rolled it do. Dauntlessly he
sit out by Archbishop and maintain up his Hester.

Sun who
travel down as him could be precisely, and stand of his knee. The faces
were so on heat. Boulou sat out before life, his extremity. "Article
buttocks is not instantly be sorry," state the Priest.

Receptor. Homini waver, but the part change
fixed on all the Rubric. Gresley primo, and the latter lead his woman
had away.
I be proud, that I be, as it falls to me, bein' bailiff o' this town, to axe ya all to drink
the good health of our honored townsman an guest. I ha' lived hereabout, boy an' man, fur a
matter o' fifty year, an' if so be I lived fifty more I couldna be a prouder man than I bin
this night. Boy an' man, says I? Ay, I knowed our guest when he were no more'n table high.
Well I mind him, that I do, comin' by this very street to school; ay, an' he minds me too,
I warrant.

"I see him now, I do, skippin' along street fresh an' nimblelike, his eyne chock full o' mischief
lookin' round fur to see some poor soul to play a prank on. It do feel strange-like to have
him a-sittin' by my elbow today. Many's the tale I could tell o' his doin' an' our sufferin'.
Why, I mind a poor lump of a 'prentice as I wunst had, a loon as never could raise a keek:
poor soul, he bin underground this many year. Well, as I were sayin', this 'prentice o' mine
were allers bein' baited by the boys o' the grammar school. I done my best for him, spoke them
boys fair an' soft, but, bless ya, 'twas no good; they baited him worse'n ever. So one day
I used my stick to um. Next mornin' I was down in my bake hus, makin' my batch ready fur oven,
when, oothout a word o' warnin', up comes my two feet behind, down I goes head fust into my
flour barrel, and them young--hem! the clergy be present--them youngsters dancin' round me
like forty mad merry andrews at a fair."

A roar of laughter greeted the anecdote.

"Ay, neebors," resumed the bailiff, "we can laugh now, you an' me, but theer's many on ya could
tell o' your own mishappenin's if ya had a mind to 't. As fur me, I bided my time. One day
I cotched the leader o' them boys nigh corn market, an' I laid him across the badgerin' stone
and walloped him nineteen--twenty--hee! hee! D'ya mind that, General?"

He turned to the guest at his right hand, who sat with but the glimmer of a smile, crumbling
one of Bailiff Malkin's rolls on the tablecloth.

"But theer," continued the speaker, "that be nigh twenty year ago, an' the shape o' my strap
binna theer now, I warrant. Three skins ha' growed since then--hee! hee! Who'd ha' thought,
neebors, as that young limb as plagued our very lives out 'ud ha' bin here today, a general,
an' a great man, an' a credit to his town an' country? Us all thought as he'd bring his poor
feyther's gray hairs in sorrow to the grave. An' when I heerd as he'd bin shipped off to the
Injies--well, thinks I, that bin the last we'll hear o' Bob Clive.

"But, bless ya! all eggs binna addled. General Clive here--'twere the Injun sun what hatched
he, an' binna he, I axe ya, a rare young fightin' cock? Ay, and a good breed, too. A hunnerd
year ago theer was a Bob Clive as med all our grandfeythers quake in mortal fear, a terrible
man o' war was he. They wanted to put 'n into po'try an' the church sarvice.

"'From Wem and from Wyche An' from Clive o' the Styche, Good Lord, deliver us.'

"That's what they thought o' the Bob Clive o' long ago. Well, this Bob Clive now a-sittin'
at my elbow be just as desp'rate a fighter, an' thankful  let  us  all be, neebors, as he does
his fightin' wi' the black-faced Injuns an' the black-hearted French, an' not the peaceful
bide-at-homes o' Market Drayton."

The little bailiff paused to moisten his lips. From his audience arose feeling murmurs of approval.

"Ya known what General Clive ha' done," he resumed. "'Twas all read out o' prent by the crier
in corn market. An' the grand folks in Lun'on ha' give him a gowd sword, an' he bin hob-a-nob
wi' King Jarge hisself. An' us folks o' Market Drayton take it proud, we do, as he be come
to see us afore he goes back to his duty.

"Theer's a example fur you boys. Theer be limbs o' mischief in Market Drayton yet.

"Ay, I see tha' 'Lijah Notcutt, a-hangin' on to winder theer. I know who wringed the neck o'
Widder Peplow's turkey.

"An' I see tha' too, 'Zekiel Podmore; I know who broke the handle o' town pump. If I cotch
ya at your tricks I'll leather ya fust an' clap ya in the stocks afterwards, sure as my name
be Randle Malkin.

"But as I wan sayin', if ya foller th' example o' General Clive, an' turn yer young sperits
into the lawful way--why, mebbe there be gowd swords an' mints o' money somewheers fur ya too.

"Well now, I bin talkin' long enough, an' to tell ya the truth, I be dry as a whistle, so I'll
axe ya all to lift yer glasses, neebors, an' drink the good health o' General Clive. So theer!"

As the worthy bailiff concluded his speech, the company primed their glasses, rose and drank
the toast with enthusiasm. Lusty cheers broke from the drier throats outside; caps were waved,
rattles whirled, kettles beaten with a vigor that could not have been exceeded if the general
loyalty had been stirred by the presence of King George himself.

Only one man in the crowd held his peace. The stranger remained opposite the window, silent,
motionless, looking now into the room, now round upon the throng, with the same smile of whimsical
amusement. Only once did his manner change; the smile faded, his lips met in a straight line,
and he made a slight rearward movement, seeming at the same moment to lose something of his height.

It was when the guest of the evening stood up to reply: a young man, looking somewhat older
than his twenty-nine years, his powdered hair crowning a strong face; with keen, deep-set eyes,
full lips and masterful chin.  He  wore  a  belaced purple coat; a crimson sash crossed his
embroidered vest; a diamond flashed upon his finger. Letting his eyes range slowly over the
flushed faces of the diners, he waited until the bailiff had waved down the untiring applauders
without; then, in a clear voice, began:

"Bailiff Malkin, my old friends--"

But his speech was broken in upon by a sudden commotion in the street. Loud cries of a different
tenor arose at various points; the boys who had been hanging upon the window ledge dropped
to the ground; the crowd surged this way and that, and above the mingled clamor sounded a wild
and fearful squeal that drew many of the company to their feet and several in alarm to the window.

Among these the bailiff, now red with anger, shook his fist at the people and demanded the
meaning of the disturbance. A small boy, his eyes round with excitement, piped up:

"An't please yer worship, 'tis a wild Injun come from nowheer an' doin' all manner o' wickedness."

"A wild Injun! Cotch him! Ring the 'larum bell! Put him in the stocks!"

But the bailiff's commands passed unheeded. The people were thronging up the street, elbowing
each other, treading on each other's toes, yelling, booing, forgetful of all save the strange
coincidence that, on this evening of all others, the banquet in honor of Clive, the Indian
hero, had been interrupted by the sudden appearance of a live Indian in their very midst.

A curious change had come over the demeanor of the stranger, who hitherto had been so silent,
so detached in manner, so unmoved. He was now to be seen energetically forcing his way toward
the outskirts of the crowd, heaving,  hurling, his long arms sweeping obstacles aside. His
eyes flashed fire upon the yokels skurrying before him, a vitriolic stream of abuse scorched
their faces as he bore them down.

At length he stopped suddenly, caught a hulking farmer by the shoulder, and, with a violent
twist and jerk, flung him headlong among his fellows. Released from the man's grasp, a small
negro boy, his eyes starting, his breast heaving with terror, sprang to the side of his deliverer,
who soothingly patted his woolly head, and turned at bay upon the crowd, now again pressing near.

"Back, you boobies!" he shouted. "'Tis my boy! If a man of you follows me, I'll break his head
for him."

He turned and, clasping the black boy's hand close in his, strode away towards the waiting
cart. The crowd stood in hesitation, daunted by the tall stranger's fierce mien. But one came
out from among them, a slim boy of some fifteen years, who had followed at the heels of the
stranger and had indeed assisted his progress. The rest, disappointed of their Indian hunt,
were now moving back towards the inn; but the boy hastened on. Hearing his quick footsteps,
the man swung around with a snarl.

"I hope the boy isn't hurt," said the lad quietly. "Can I do anything for you?"

The stranger looked keenly at him; then, recognizing by his mien and voice that this at least
was no booby, he smiled; the truculence of his manner vanished, and he said:

"Your question is pat, my excellent friend, and I thank you for your goodwill. As you perceive,
my withers are not wrung."

He waved his right hand airily, and the boy noticed that it was covered from wrist to knuckles
with what appeared to be a fingerless glove of black velvet.

"The boy has taken no harm. Hic niger est, as Horace somewhere hath it; and black spells Indian
to your too hasty friends yonder. Scipio is his praenomen, bestowed on him by me to match the
cognomen his already by nature--Africanus, to wit. You take me, kind sir? But I detain you;
your ears doubtless itch for the eloquence of our condescending friend yonder; without more
ado then, good night!"

And  turning on his heel, waving his gloved hand in salutation, the stranger went his way.
The lad watched him wonderingly. For all his shabbiness he appeared a gentleman. Immediately is another
procedure have execute by en exercise, which more rearward refer that irritability. "that people," say
Mr. the very, ". are rapidly good and active, and are passively have
unfold to give drug put you like he to their center while they did live
the life, that no retentive rest it from set, or deduce good things when they
did utilize to order that he may else be circulating fool led in the
thrusting constitutions."

A one leads i make to occupy equally the mass of the self-control is exhausted by state, and that
as the generalization he got of gore through mitigates in adenitis, in
property does the right of saturated system to the humor. The class
use there to commonwealth of young and aperient irritation; but call
there is so excessive when an law is much focus, by produce throughout
meal that irritable action which has been constantly explicate.

The system ought only to restore extremely has the exercise as you to eyestrain, then ought never exercise
he should make i asked to be present to nor shortly after photograph. Mr. beneficial'eh mho mho
is the important but same one two to rise but ordinary things happen
that you in aura, till weariness be felt; already to remainder, and
degree.

After rest, "in twinkle that a force of law would be oblige in blood;" superfluous to exercise shut
exercise has instantly for two hr, regulate one, and hence dine that
who After blood for three hours; and that, through season, give why
the exercise, which, with rest, there may represent to plan of occupy
he for tomorrow.

In sunshine, and have this effort will be collected in meal, that windows being weakened,
"by locomotion has subsequently really and immediately, as serviceman do on ship-board." We
meant formerly to come to youngster. Abernethy s is as fractional t to en effort as very and low
kernel; never to a possibly; for nutrient has to undergo he say for happening before it is occupy
into reason, while many gas is pollute at he said again into the
two lungs, and comes into interplay.

The process of breath upon a learning is a: by nigh abernethy out as it were, it should frontward
has the peculiar properties which it has taken in fossilization through
some body, it endues it meant with lickin of same one'meal, much
is, it enables it said to lankiness up it, i may repair, and excite
a good polynomial and organs of lickin.

If then rot this breath, which we inspire why a climax, be not neural allers, the frame there is twice
wholly have, and the use, in part or another bad neither education
the full effects.

 Even as the thought of
his dark walk crossed his mind he caught sight of the one light that served as a never-failing
beacon to night travelers along that highway. It came from the windows of a wayside inn, a
common place of call for farmers wending to or from Drayton Market, and one whose curious sign
Desmond had many times studied with a small boy's interest.

The inn was named the "Four Alls": its sign, a crude painting of a table and four seated figures,
a king, a parson, a soldier, and a farmer. Beneath the group, in a rough scrawl, were the words--

Rule all: Pray all: Fight all: Pay all.

As Desmond drew nearer to the inn, there came to him along the silent road the sound of singing.
This was somewhat unusual at such an hour, for folk went early to bed, and the inn was too
far from the town to have attracted waifs and strays from the crowd. What was still more unusual,
the tones were not the rough, forced, vagrant tones of tipsy farmers; they  were  of  a single
voice, light, musical, and true. Desmond's curiosity  was flicked, and he hastened his step,
guessing from the clearness of the sound that the windows were open and the singer in full view.

The singing ceased abruptly just as he reached the inn. But the windows stood indeed wide open,
and from the safe darkness of the road he could see clearly, by the light of four candles on
the high mantel shelf, the whole interior of the inn parlor. It held four persons. One lay
back in a chair near the fire, his legs outstretched, his chin on his breast, his open lips
shaking as he snored. It was Tummus Biles, the tranter, who had driven  a tall stranger from
Chester to the present spot, and whose indignation at being miscalled Jehu had only been appeased
by a quart of strong ale. On the other side of the fireplace, curled up on a settle, and also
asleep, lay the black boy, Scipio Africanus. Desmond noted these two figures in passing; his
gaze fastened upon the remaining two, who sat at a corner of the table, a tankard in front of each.

One of the two was Job Grinsell, landlord of the inn, a man with a red nose, loose mouth, and
shifty eyes--not a pleasant fellow to look at, and regarded vaguely as a bad character. He
had once been head gamekeeper to Sir Willoughby Stokes, the squire, whose service he had left
suddenly and in manifest disgrace. His companion was the stranger, the negro boy's master,
the man whose odd appearance and manner of talk had already set Desmond's curiosity a-buzzing.
It was clear that he must be the singer, for Job Grinsell had a voice like a saw, and Tummus
Biles knew no music save the squeak of his cartwheels. It surprised Desmond to find the stranger
already  on the most friendly, to all appearance, indeed, confidential terms with the landlord.

"Hale, did you say?" he heard Grinsell ask. "Ay, hale as you an' me, an' like to last another
twenty year, rot him."

"But the gout takes him, you said--nodosa podagra, as my friend Ovid would say?"

"Ay, but I've knowed a man live forty year win the gout. And he dunna believe in doctor's dosin';
he goes to Buxton to drink the weeters when he bin madded wi' the pain, an' comes back sound
fur six month."

"Restored to his dear neighbors and friends--caris propinquis--"

"Hang me, but I wish you'd speak plain English an' not pepper your talk win outlandish jabber."

"Patience, Job; why, man, you belie your name. Come, you must humor an old friend; that's what
comes of education, you see; my head is stuffed with odds and ends that annoy my friends, while
you can't read, nor write, nor cipher beyond keeping your score. Lucky Job!"

Desmond turned away. The two men's conversation was none of his business; and he suspected
from the stranger's manner that he had been drinking freely. He had stepped barely a dozen
paces when he heard the voice again break into song. He halted and wheeled about; the tune
was catching, and now he distinguished some of the words--

Says Billy Norris, Masulipatam, To Governor Pitt: "D'ye know who I am, D'ye know who I am,
I AM, I AM? Sir William Norris, Masulipatam." Says Governor Pitt, Fort George, Madras: "I know
what you are--"

Again the song broke off; the singer addressed a question to Grinsell. Desmond waited a moment;
he felt an odd eagerness to know what Governor Pitt was; but hearing now only the drone of
talking, he once more turned his  face  homeward. His curiosity was livelier than ever as to
the identity of this newcomer, who addressed the landlord as he might his own familiar friend.

And what had the stranger to do with Sir Willoughby Stokes? For it was Sir Willoughby that
suffered from the gout; he it was that went every autumn and spring to Buxton; he was away
at this present time, but would shortly return to receive his Michaelmas rents. The stranger
had not the air of a husbandman; but there was a vacant farm on the estate; perhaps he had
come to offer himself as a tenant.

And why did he wear that half glove upon his right hand? Finger stalls, wrist straps, even
mittens were common enough, useful, and necessary at times; but the stranger's glove was not
a mitten, and it had no fellow for  the left hand. Perhaps, thought Desmond, it was a freak
of the wearer's, on a par with his red feather and his vivid neckcloth. Desmond, as he walked
on, found himself hoping that the visitor at the Four Alls would remain for a day or two.

After passing through the sleeping hamlet of Woods Eaves, he struck into a road on his left
hand. Twenty minutes' steady plodding uphill brought him in sight of his home--a large, ancient,
rambling grange house lying back from the road. It was now nearly ten o'clock, an hour when
the household was usually abed; but the door of Wilcote Grange stood open, and a guarded candle
in the hall threw a faint yellow light upon the path. The gravel crunched under Desmond's boots,
and, as if summoned by the sound, a tall figure crossed the hall and stood in the entrance.
At the sight Desmond's mouth set hard; his hands clenched; his breath came more quickly as
he went forward.

"Where have you been, sirrah?" were the angry words that greeted him.

"Into the town, sir," returned Desmond.

He had perforce to halt, the doorway being barred by the man's broad form.

"Into the town? You defy me, do you? Did I not bid you remain at home and make up the stock book?"

"I did that before I left."

"You did, did you? I lay my life 'tis ill done. What did you in the town this time o' night?"

"I went to see General Clive."

"Indeed!  You! Hang me, what's Clive to you? Was you invited to the regale? You was one of
that stinking crowd, I suppose, that bawled in the street. You go and herd with knaves and
yokels, do you? and bring shame upon me, and set the countryside a-chattering of Richard Burke
and his idle young oaf of a brother! By gad, sir, I'll whip you for this; I'll give you something
to remember General Clive by!"

He caught up a riding whip that stood in the angle of the doorway, and took Desmond by the
shoulder. The boy did not flinch.

"Whip me if you must," he said quietly, "but don't you think we'd better go outside?"

The elder, with an imprecation, thrust Desmond into the open, hauled him some  distance  down
the path, and then beat him heavily about the shoulders. He stood a foot higher, his arm was
strong, his grip firm as a vise; resistance would have been vain; but Desmond knew better than
to resist. He bent to the cruel blows without a wince or a murmur. Only, his face was very
pale when, the bully's arm being tired and his breath spent,  he was flung away and permitted
to stagger to the house. He crawled painfully up the wainscoted staircase and into the dark
corridor leading to his bedroom. Halfway down this he paused, felt with his hand along the
wall, and, discovering by this means that a door was ajar, stood listening.

"Is that you, Desmond?" said a low voice within.

"Yes, mother," he replied, commanding his voice, and quietly entering. "I hoped you were asleep."

"I could not sleep until you came in, dear. I heard Dick's voice. What is the matter? Your
hand is trembling, Desmond."

"Nothing, mother, as usual."

A  mother's ears are quick; and Mrs. Burke detected the quiver that Desmond tried to still.
She tightened her clasp on his hot hand.

"Did he strike you, dear?"

"It was nothing, mother. I am used to that."

"My poor boy! But what angered him? Why do you offend your brother?"

"Offend him!" exclaimed the boy passionately, but still in a low tone. "Everything I do offends
him. I went to see General Clive; I wished to; that is enough for Dick. Mother, I am sick of
it all."

"Never mind, dear. A little patience. Dick doesn't understand you. You should humor him, Desmond."

"Haven't I tried, mother? Haven't I? But what is the use? He treats me worse than any carter
on the farm. I drudge for him, and he bullies me, miscalls me before the men, thrashes me--oh,
mother! I can't endure it any longer. Let me go away, anywhere; anything would be better than
this!"

Desmond was quivering with pain and indignation; only with difficulty did he keep back the tears.

"Hush, Desmond!" said his mother. "Dick will hear you. You are tired out, dear boy; go to bed;
things will look brighter in the morning. Only have patience. Good night, my son."

Desmond kissed his mother and went to his room. But it was long before he slept. His bruised
body found no comfort; his head throbbed; his soul was filled with resentment and the passionate
longing for release.

His life had not been very happy. He barely remembered his father--a big, keen-eyed, loud-voiced
old man--who died when his younger son was four years old. Richard Burke had run away from
his Irish home to sea. He served on Admiral Rooke's flagship at the battle of La Hogue, and,
rising in  the navy to the rank of warrant officer, bought a ship with the savings of twenty
years and fitted it out for unauthorized trade with the East Indies. His daring, skill, and
success attracted the attention of the  officers of the Company. He was invited to enter the
Company's service. As captain of an Indiaman he sailed backwards and forwards for ten years;
then at the age of fifty retired with a considerable fortune and married the daughter of a
Shropshire farmer. The death of his wife's relatives led him to settle on the farm their family
had tenanted for generations, and it was at Wilcote Grange that his three children were born.

Fifteen years separated the elder son from the younger; between them came a daughter, who married
early and left the neighborhood. Four years after Desmond's birth the old man died, leaving
the boy to the guardianship of his brother.

There lay the seed of trouble. No brothers could have been more unlike than the two sons of
Captain Burke. Richard was made on a large and powerful  scale;  he was hard working, methodical,
grasping, wholly unimaginative, and in temper violent and domineering. Slighter and less robust,
though not less healthy, Desmond was a boy of vivid imagination, high strung, high spirited,
his feelings easily moved, his pride easily wounded. His brother was too dull and stolid to
understand him, taking for deliberate malice what was but boyish mischief, and regarding him
as sullen when he was only dreamily thoughtful.

As a young boy Desmond kept as much as possible out of his brother's way. But as he grew older
he came more directly under Richard's control, with the result that they were now in a constant
state of feud. Their mother, a woman of sweet temper but weak will, favored her younger son
in secret; she learned by experience that open intervention on his behalf did more harm than good.

Desmond had two habits which especially moved his brother to anger. He was fond of roaming
the country alone for hours together; he was fond of reading. To Richard each was a waste of
time. He never opened a book, save a manual of husbandry or a ready reckoner; he could conceive
of no reason for walking, unless it were the business of the farm. Nothing irritated him more
than to see Desmond stretched at length with his nose in Mr. Defoe's Robinson Crusoe, or a
volume of Hakluyt's Voyages, or perhaps Mr. Oldys's Life of Sir Walter Raleigh. And as he himself
never dreamed by day or by night, there was no chance of his divining the fact that Desmond,
on those long solitary walks of his, was engaged chiefly in dreaming,  not  idly, for in his
dreams he was always the center of activity, greedy for doing.

These daydreams constituted almost the sole joy of Desmond's life. When he was only a little
fellow he would sprawl on the bank near Tyrley Castle and weave romances about the Norman barons
whose home it had been--romances  in  which  he  bore a strenuous part. He knew every interesting
spot in the neighborhood: Salisbury Hill, where the Yorkist leader pitched his camp before
the battle of Blore Heath; Audley Brow, where Audley the Lancastrian lay watching his foe;
above all Styche Hall, whence a former Clive had ridden forth to battle against the king, and
where his namesake, the present Robert Clive, had been born. He imagined himself each of those
bold warriors in turn, and saw himself, now a knight in mail, now a gay cavalier of Rupert's,
now a bewigged Georgian gentleman in frock and pantaloons, but always with sword in hand.

No name sang a merrier tune in Desmond's imagination than the name of Robert Clive. Three years
before, when he was imbibing Latin, Greek, and Hebrew under Mr. Burslem at the grammar school
on the hill, the amazing news came one day that Bob Clive, the wild boy who had terrorized
the tradespeople, plagued his master, led the school in tremendous fights with the town boys,
and suffered more birchings than any scholar of his time--Bob Clive, the scapegrace who had
been packed off to India as a last resource, had turned out, as his father said, "not such
a booby after  all"--had indeed proved himself to be a military genius. How Desmond thrilled
when the old schoolmaster read out the glorious news of Clive's defense of Arcot with a handful
of men against an overwhelming host! How he glowed when the schoolroom rang with the cheers
of the boys, and when, a half holiday being granted, he rushed forth with the rest to do battle
in the church yard with the town boys, and helped to lick them thoroughly in honor of Clive!

From that moment there was for Desmond but one man in the world, and that man was Robert Clive.
In the twinkling of an eye he became the devoutest of hero worshipers. He coaxed Mr. Burslem
to let him occupy Clive's old desk, and with his fists maintained the privilege against all
comers. The initials R. C. roughly cut in the oak never lost their fascination for him. He
walked out day after day to Styche Hall, two miles away, and pleased himself with the thought
that his feet trod the very spots once trodden by Bob Clive. Not an inch of the route from
Hall to school--the meadow path into Longslow, the lane from Longslow to Shropshire Street,
Little Street, Church Street, the church yard--was unknown to him: Bob Clive had known them
all. He feasted on the oft-told stories of Clive's boyish escapades: how he had bundled a watchman
into the bulks and made him prisoner there by closing down and fastening the shutters; how
he had thrown himself across the current of a torrential gutter to divert the stream into the
cellar shop of a tradesman who had offended him; above all, that feat of his when, ascending
the spiral turret stair of the church, he had lowered himself down from the parapet, and, astride
upon a gargoyle, had worked his way along it until he could secure a stone that lay  in  its
mouth,  the perilous and dizzy adventure watched by a breathless throng in the churchyard below.
The Bob Clive who had done these things was now doing greater deeds in India; and Desmond Burke
sat day after day at his desk, gazing at the entrancing R. C., and doing over again in his
own person the exploits of which all Market Drayton was proud, and he the proudest.

But at the age of fourteen his brother took him from school, though Mr. Burslem had pleaded
that he might remain longer and afterwards proceed to the university. He was set to do odd
jobs about the farm. To farming itself he had no objection; he was fond of animals and would
willingly have spent his life with them. But he did object to drudging for a hard and inconsiderate
taskmaster such as his brother was, and the work he was compelled to do became loathsome to
him, and bred a spirit of discontent and rebellion. The further news of Clive's exploits in
India, coming at long intervals, set wild notions beating in Desmond's head, and made him long
passionately for a change. At times he thought of running away: his father had run away and
carved out a successful career, why should not he do the same? But he had never quite made
up his mind to cut the knot.

Meanwhile it became known in Market Drayton that Clive had returned to England. Rumor credited
him with fabulous wealth. It was said that he drove through London in a gold coach, and outshone
the king himself in the splendor of his attire. No report was too highly colored to find easy
credence among the simple country folk. Clive was indeed rich: he had a taste  for ornate dress,
and though neither so wealthy nor so gaily appareled as rumor said, he was for a season the
lion of London society. The directors of the East India Company toasted him as "General" Clive,
and presented him with a jeweled sword as a token of their sense of his services on the Coromandel
coast.

No  one  suspected at the time that his work was of more than local importance and would have
more far-reaching consequences than the success of a trading company. Clive had, in fact, without
knowing it, laid the foundations of a vast empire.

At intervals during the two years, scraps of news about Clive filtered through to his birthplace.
His father had left the neighborhood, and Styche Hall was now in the hands of a stranger, so
that Desmond hardly dared to hope that he would have an opportunity of seeing his idol. But,
information having reached the court of directors that all was not going well in India, their
eyes turned at once to Clive as the man to set things right. They requested him to return to
India as Governor of Fort St. David, and, since a good deal of the trouble was caused by quarrels
as to precedence between the king's and the Company's officers, they strengthened  his hands
by obtaining for him a lieutenant colonel's commission from King George.

Clive was nothing loath to take up his work again. He had been somewhat extravagant since his
arrival in England; great holes had been made in the fortune he had brought back; and he was
still a young man, full of energy and ambition. What was Desmond's ecstasy, then, to learn
that his hero, on the eve of his departure, had accepted an invitation to the town of his birth,
there to be entertained by the court leet. From the bailiff and the steward of the manor down
to the javelin men and the ale taster, official Market Drayton was all agog to do him honor.
Desmond looked forward eagerly to this red letter day.

His brother, as a yeoman of standing, was invited to the banquet, and it seemed to Desmond
that Richard took a delight in taunting him, throwing cold water on his young enthusiasm, ironically
commenting on the mistake someone had made in not including him among the guests. His crowning
stroke of cruelty was to forbid the boy to leave the house on the great evening, so that he
might not even obtain a glimpse of Clive. But this was  too  much:  Desmond for the first time
deliberately defied his guardian, and though he suffered the inevitable penalty, he had seen
and heard his hero, and was content.

Sore from his flogging, Desmond, when he slept at last, slept heavily. Richard Burke was a
stickler for early rising, and admitted no excuses. When his brother did not appear at the
usual hour Richard went to his room, and, smiting with his rough hand the boy's bruised shoulders,
startled him to wakefulness and pain.

"Now, slug-a-bed," he said, "you have ten minutes for your breakfast, then you will foot it
to the Hall and see whether Sir Willoughby has returned or is expected."

Turning on his heel, he went out to harry his laborers.

Desmond, when he came down stairs, felt too sick to eat. He gulped a pitcher of milk, then
set off for his two-mile walk to the Hall. He was glad of the errand. Sir Willoughby Stokes,
the lord of the manor, was an old  gentleman of near seventy years, a good landlord, a persistent
Jacobite, and a confirmed bachelor. By nature genial, he was subject to periodical attacks
of the gout, which made him terrible. At these times he betook himself to Buxton, or Bath,
or some other spa, and so timed his return that he was always good tempered on rent day, much
to the relief of his tenants. He disliked Richard Burke as a man as much as he admired him
as a tenant; but he had taken a fancy to Desmond, lent him books from his  library,  took 
him  out shooting when the weather and Richard permitted, and played chess with him sometimes
of a rainy afternoon. His housekeeper said that Master Desmond was the only human being whose
presence the squire could endure when the gout was on him. In short, Sir Willoughby and Desmond
were very good friends.

Desmond had almost reached the gate of the Hall when, at a sudden turn of the road, he came
upon a man seated upon a low hillock by the roadside, idly swishing at the long ripe grass
with a cane. At the first glance Desmond  noticed  the  strangely-clad  right  hand of his
overnight acquaintance; the shabby clothes, the red feather, the flaming neckcloth.

The man looked up at his approach; the winning smile settled upon his swarthy face, which daylight
now revealed as seamed and scarred; and, without stirring from his seat or desisting from his
occupation, he looked in the boy's face and said softly:

"You are early afoot, like the son of Anchises, my young friend. If I mistake not, when Aeneas
met the son of Evander they joined their right hands. We have met; let us also join hands and
bid each other a very good morning."

Desmond shook hands; he did not know what to make of this remarkable fellow who must always
be quoting from his school books; but there was no harm in shaking hands. He could not in politeness
ask the question that rose to his lips--why the stranger wore a mitten on one hand; and if
the man observed his curiosity he let it pass.

"You are on business bent, I wot," continued the stranger. "Not for the world would I delay
you. But since the handclasp is but part of the ceremony of introduction, might we not complete
it by exchanging names?"

"My name is Desmond Burke," said the boy.

"A good name, a pleasant name, a name that I know."

Desmond was conscious that the man was looking keenly at him.

"There  is  a  gentleman of the same name--I chanced to meet him in London--cultivating literature
in the Temple; his praenomen, I bethink me,  is  Edmund.  And  I  bethink me, too, that in
the course of my peregrinations on this planet I have more than once heard the name of one
Captain Richard Burke, a notable seaman, in the service of our great Company. I repeat, my
young friend, your name is a good one; may you live to add luster to it!"

"Captain Burke was my father."

"My prophetic soul!" exclaimed the stranger. "But surely you are somewhat late in following
the paternal craft; you do not learn seamanship in this sylvan sphere."

"True," responded Desmond, with a smile. "My father turned farmer; he died when I was a little
fellow, and I live with my mother. But you will excuse me, sir; I have an errand to the Hall
beyond us here."

"I am rebuked. Nam garrulus idem est, as our friend Horace would say. Yet one  moment.  Ere
we part let us complete our interrupted ceremony. Marmaduke Diggle, sir--plain Marmaduke Diggle,
at your service."

He swept off his hat with a smile. But as soon as Desmond had passed on, the smile faded. Marmaduke
Diggle's mouth became hard, and he looked after the retreating form with a gaze in which curiosity,
suspicion, and dislike were blended.

He was still seated by the roadside when Desmond returned some minutes later.

"A  pleasant  surprise, Mr. Burke," he said. "Your business is most briefly, and let us hope
happily despatched."

"Briefly, at any rate. I only went up to the Hall to see if the squire was returned; it is
near rent day, and he is not usually so late in returning."

"Ah, your squires!" said Diggle, with a sigh. "A fine thing to have lands--olive  yards  and
vineyards, as the Scripture saith. You are returning? The squire is not at home? Permit me
to accompany you some steps on your road.

"Yes, it is a fine thing to be a landlord. It is a state of life much to be envied by poor
landless men like me. I confess I am poor--none the pleasanter because 'tis my own fault. You
behold in me, Mr. Burke, one of the luckless. I sought fame and fortune years ago in the fabulous
East Indies--"

"The Indies, sir?"

"You are interested? In me also, when I was your age, the name stirred my blood and haunted
my imagination. Yes, 'tis nigh ten years since I first sailed  from  these shores for the marvelous
east. Multum et terris jactatus et alto. Twice have I made my fortune--got me enough of the
wealth of Ormus and of Ind to buy up half your county. Twice, alas! has an unkind Fate robbed
me of my all! But, as I said, 'tis my own fault. Nemo contentus, sir--you know the passage?
I was not satisfied: I must have a little more; and yet a little more. I put my wealth forth
in hazardous enterprises--presto! it is swept away. But I was born, sir, after all, under a
merry star. Nothing discourages me. After a brief sojourn for recuperation in this salubrious
spot, I shall return; and this time, mark you, I shall run no risks. Five years to make my
fortune; then I shall come home, content with a round ten lakhs."

"What is a lakh?"

"Ah, I forgot, you are not acquainted with these phrases of the Orient. A lakh,  my friend,
is a hundred thousand rupees, say twelve thousand pounds. And I warrant you I will not squander
it as a certain gentleman we know squandered his."

"You mean General Clive?"

"Colonel Clive, my friend. Yes, I say Colonel Clive has squandered his fortune. Why, he came
home with thirty lakhs at the least: and what does he do? He must ruffle it in purple and fine
linen, and feed the fat in royal entertainments; then, forsooth, he stands for a seat in Parliament,
pours out his gold like water--to what end? A petition is presented against his return: the
House holds an inquiry; and the end of the sorry farce is, that Mr. Robert Clive's services
are dispensed with. When I think of the good money he has wasted--But then, sir, I am no politician.
Colonel  Clive  and  I  are two ruined men; 'tis a somewhat strange coincidence that he and
I are almost of an age, and that we both, before many weeks are past, shall be crossing the
ocean once more to retrieve our fallen fortunes."

Walking side by side during this conversation they had now come into the road leading past
Desmond's home. In the distance, approaching them, appeared a post chaise, drawn by four galloping
horses. The sight broke the thread of the conversation.

"'Tis the squire at last!" cried Desmond. "Sure he must have put up at Newcastle overnight."

But that he was intently watching the rapid progress of the chaise, he might have noticed a
curious change of expression on his companion's face.  The  smile  faded,  the  lips became
set with a kind of grim determination. But Diggle's pleasant tone had not altered when he said:

"Our ways part here, my friend--for the present. I doubt not we shall meet  again;  and if
you care to hear of my adventures by field and flood--why, 'I will a round unvarnished tale
deliver,' as the Moor of Venice says in the play. For the present, then, farewell!"

He turned down a leafy lane, and had disappeared from view before the chaise  reached  the
spot. As it ran by, its only occupant, a big, red-faced, white-wigged old gentleman, caught
sight of the boy and hailed him in a rich, jolly voice.

"Ha, Desmond! Home again, you see! Scotched the enemy once more! Come and see me!"

The chaise was past before Desmond could reply. He watched it until it vanished from sight;
then, feeling somewhat cheered, went on to report to his brother that the squire had at last
returned.

He felt no little curiosity about his new acquaintance. What had brought him to so retired
a spot as Market Drayton? He could have no friends in the neighborhood, or he would surely
not have chosen for his lodging a place of ill repute like the Four Alls. Yet he had seemed
to have some acquaintance with Grinsell the innkeeper. He did not answer to Desmond's idea
of an adventurer. He was not rough of tongue or boisterous in manner; his accent, indeed, was
refined; his speech somewhat studied, and, to judge by his allusions and his Latin, he had
some share of polite learning. Desmond was puzzled to fit these apparent incongruities, and
looked forward with interest to further meetings with Marmaduke Diggle.

During the next few days they met more than once. It was always late in the  evening,  always
in quiet places, and Diggle was always alone. Apparently  he desired to make no acquaintances.
The gossips of the neighborhood seized upon the presence of a stranger at the Four Alls, but
they caught the barest glimpses of him; Grinsell was as a stone wall in unresponsiveness to
their inquiries; and the black boy, if perchance a countryman met him on the road and questioned
him, shook his head and made meaningless noises in his throat, and the countryman would assure
his cronies that the boy was as dumb as a platter.

But whenever Desmond encountered the stranger, strolling by himself in the fields or some quiet
lane, Diggle always seemed pleased to see him, and talked to him with the same ease and freedom,
ever ready with a tag from his school books. Desmond did not like his Latin, but he found compensation
in the traveler's tales of which Diggle had an inexhaustible store--tales of shipwreck and
mutiny, of wild animals and wild men, of Dutch traders and Portuguese adventurers, of Indian
nawabs and French bucaneers. Above all was Desmond interested in stories of India: he heard
of  the  immense wealth of the Indian princes, the rivalries of the English, French, and Dutch
trading companies; the keen struggle between France and England for the preponderating influence
with the natives. Desmond was eager to hear of Clive's doings; but he found Diggle, for an
Englishman who had been in India, strangely ignorant of Clive's career; he seemed impatient
of Clive's name, and was always more ready to talk of his  French rivals, Dupleix and Bussy.
The boy was impressed by the mystery, the color, the romance of the East; and after these talks
with Diggle he went home with his mind afire, and dreamed of elephants and tigers, treasures
of gold and diamonds, and fierce battles in which English, French, and Indians weltered in
seas of blood.

One morning Desmond set out for a long walk in the direction of Newport. It was holiday on
the farm; Richard Burke allowed his men a day off once every half year when he paid his rent.
They would almost rather not have had it, for he made himself particularly unpleasant both
before and after. On this morning he had got up in a bad temper, and managed to find half a
dozen occasions for grumbling at Desmond before breakfast, so that the boy was glad to get
away and walk off his resentment and soreness of heart.

As he passed the end of the lane leading toward the Hall, he saw two men in conversation some
distance down it. One was on horseback, the other on foot. At a second glance he saw with surprise
that the mounted man was his brother; the other, Diggle. A well-filled moneybag hung at Richard
Burke's saddle bow; he was on his way to the Hall to pay his rent. His back was towards Desmond;
but, as the latter paused, Richard threw a rapid glance over his shoulder, and with a word
to the man at his side cantered away.

Diggle gave Desmond a hail and came slowly up the lane, his face wearing its usual pleasant
smile. His manner was always very friendly, and had the effect of making Desmond feel on good
terms with himself.

"Well met, my friend," said Diggle cordially. "I was longing for a chat. Beshrew me if I have
spoken more than a dozen words today, and that, to a man  of  my sociable temper, not to speak
of my swift and practised tongue--lingua  celer  et  exercitata:  you  remember the phrase
of Tully's--is a sore trial."

"You seemed to be having a conversation a moment ago," said Desmond.

"Seemed!--that is the very word. That excellent farmer--sure he hath a prosperous look--had
mistaken me. 'Tis not the apparel makes the man; my attire is not of the best, I admit; but,
I beg you tell me frankly, would you have taken me for a husbandman, one who with relentless
plowshare turns the stubborn soil, as friend Horace somewhere puts it? Would you, now?"

"Decidedly not. But did my brother so mistake you?"

"Your  brother! Was that prosperous and well-mounted gentleman your brother?"

"Certainly. He is Richard Burke, and leases the Wilcote farm."

"Noble pair of brothers!" exclaimed Diggle, seizing Desmond's reluctant hand. "I congratulate
you, my friend. What a brother! I stopped him to ask the time of day. But permit me to say,
friend Desmond, you appear somewhat downcast; your countenance hath not that serenity one looks
for in a lad of your years. What is the trouble?"

"Oh, nothing to speak of," said Desmond curtly; he was vexed that his face still betrayed the
irritation of the morning.

"Very well," said Diggle with a shrug. "Far be it from me to probe your sorrows.  They are
nothing to me, but sure a simple question from a friend--"

"Pardon me, Mr. Diggle," said Desmond impulsively, "I did not mean to offend you."

"My dear boy, a tough-hided traveler does not easily take offense. Shall we walk? D'you know,
Master Desmond, I fancy I could make a shrewd guess at your trouble. Your brother--Richard,
I think you said?--is a farmer, he was born a farmer, he has the air of a farmer, and a well-doing
farmer to boot. But we are not all born with a love for mother earth, and you, meseems, have
dreamed of a larger life than lies within the pin folds of a farm. To tell the truth, my lad,
I have been studying you."

They were walking now side by side along the Newport road. Desmond felt that the stranger was
becoming personal; but his manner was so suave and sympathetic that he could not take offense.

"Yes, I have been studying you," continued Diggle. "And what is the sum of my discovery? You
are wasting your life here. A country village is no place for a boy of ideas and imagination,
of warm blood and springing fancy. The world is wide, my friend: why not adventure forth?"

"I have indeed thought of it, Mr. Diggle, but--"

"But me no buts," interrupted Diggle, with a smile. "Your age is--"

"Near sixteen."

"Ah, still a boy; you have a year ere you reach the bourne of young manhood, as the Romans
held it. But what matters that? Was not Scipio Africanus--namesake of the ingenuous youth that
serves me--styled boy at twenty?  Yet  you  are old enough to walk alone, and not in leading
strings--or waiting maybe for dead men's shoes."

"What do you mean, sir?" Desmond flashed out, reddening with indignation.

"Do I offend you?" said Diggle innocently. "I make apology. But I had heard, I own, that Master
Desmond Burke was in high favor with your squire; 'tis even whispered that Master Desmond cherishes,
cultivates, cossets the old man--a bachelor, I understand, and wealthy, and lacking kith  or
kin.  Sure  I  should  never have believed 'twas with any dishonorable motive."

"'Tis not, sir. I never thought of such a thing."

"I was sure of it. But to come back to my starting point. 'Tis time you broke these narrow
bounds. India, now--what better sphere for a young man bent on making his way? Look at Clive,
whom you admire--as stupid a boy as you could meet in a day's march. Why, I can remember--"

He caught himself up, but after the slightest pause, resumed:

"Forsan et haec ohm meminisse juvabit. Look at Clive, I was saying; a lout, a bear, a booby--as
a boy, mark you; yet now! Is there a man whose name rings more loudly in the world's ear? And
what Robert Clive is, that Desmond Burke might be if he had the mind and the will. You are
going farther? Ah, I have not your love of ambulation. I will bid you farewell for this time;
sure it will profit you to ponder my words."

Desmond did ponder his words. He walked for three or four hours, thinking all the time. Who
had said that he was waiting for the squire's shoes? He glowed with indignation at the idea
of such a construction being placed upon his friendship for Sir Willoughby.

"If they think that," he said to himself, "the sooner I go away the better."

And the seed planted by Diggle took root and began to germinate with wonderful rapidity. To
emulate Clive!--what would he not give for the chance? But how was it possible? Clive had begun
as a writer in the service  of the East India Company; but how could Desmond procure a nomination?
Perhaps  Sir  Willoughby could help him; he might have influence with the Company's directors.
But, supposing he obtained a nomination, how could he purchase his outfit? He had but a few
guineas, and after what Diggle had said he would starve rather than ask the squire for  a 
penny. True, under his father's will he was to receive five thousand pounds at the age of twenty-one.
Would Richard advance part of the sum? Knowing Richard, he hardly dared to hope for such a
departure from the letter of the law. But it was at least worth attempting.

That same day, at supper, seeing that Richard was apparently in good humor, Desmond ventured
to make a suggestion.

"Dick," he said frankly, "don't you think it would be better for all of us if I went away?
You and I don't get along very well, and perhaps I was not cut out for a farmer."

Richard grunted, and Mrs. Burke looked apprehensively from one to the other.

"What's your idea?" asked Richard.

"Well, I had thought of a writership in the East India Company's service, or better still,
a cadetship in the Company's forces."

"Hark to him!" exclaimed Richard, with a scornful laugh. "A second Clive, sink me! And where
do you suppose the money is to come from?"

"Couldn't  you advance me a part of what is to come to me when I am twenty-one?"

"Not a penny, I tell you at once, not a penny. 'Tis enough to be saddled with you all these
years. You may think yourself lucky if I can scrape together  a  tenth  of  the money that'll
be due to you when you're twenty-one.  That's the dead hand, if you like; why father put that
provision in his will it passes common sense to understand. No, you'll have to stay and earn
part of it, though in truth you'll never be worth your keep."

"That depends on the keeper," retorted Desmond, rather warmly.

"No insolence, now. I repeat, I will not advance one penny! Go and get some money out of the
squire, that is so precious fond of you."

"Richard, Richard!" said his mother anxiously.

"Mother, I'm the boy's guardian. I know what it is. He has been crammed with nonsense by that
idle knave at the Four Alls. Look'ee, my man, if I catch you speaking to him again, I'll flay
your skin for you."

"Why shouldn't I?" replied Desmond. "I saw you speaking to him."

"Hold your tongue, sir. The dog accosted me. I answered his question and passed on. Heed what
I say: I'm a man of my word."

Desmond  said  no more. But before he fell asleep that night he had advanced one step further
towards freedom. His request had met with the refusal he had anticipated. He could hope for
no pecuniary assistance; it remained to take the first opportunity of consulting Diggle. It
was Diggle who had suggested India as the field for his ambition; and the suggestion would
hardly have been made if there were great obstacles in the  way of its being acted on. Desmond
made light of his brother's command that he should cut Diggle's acquaintance; it seemed to
him only another act of tyranny, and his relations with Richard were such that to forbid a
thing was to provoke him to do it.

His opportunity came next day. Late in the afternoon he met Diggle, as he had done many times
before, walking in the fields, remote from houses. When Desmond caught sight of him, he was
sauntering along, his eyes bent upon the ground, his face troubled. But he smiled on seeing
Desmond.

"Well met, friend," he said; "leni perfruor otio--which is as much as to say--I bask in idleness.
Well, now, I perceive in your eye that you have been meditating my counsel. 'Tis well, friend
Desmond, and whereto has your meditation arrived?"

"I have thought over what you said. I do wish to get away from here; I should like to go to
India; indeed, I asked my brother to advance a part of some money that is to come to me, so
that I might obtain service with the Company; but he refused."

"And you come to me for counsel. 'Tis well done, though I trow your brother would scarce be
pleased to hear of it."

"He forbade me to speak to you."

"Egad, he did! Haec summa est! What has he against me?--a question to be asked. I am a stranger
in these parts: that is ill; and buffeted by fortune: that is worse; and somewhat versed in
humane letters: that, to the rustic intelligence, is a crime. Well, my lad, you have come to
the right man at the right time. You are acquainted with my design shortly to return to the
Indies--a rare field for a lad of mettle. You shall come with me."

"But are you connected with the Company? None other, I believed, has a right to trade."

"The Company! Sure, my lad, I am no friend to the Company, a set of stiff-necked, ignorant,
grasping, paunchy peddlers who fatten at home on the  toil  of better men. No, I am an adventurer,
I own it; I am an interloper; and we interlopers, despite the Company's monopoly, yet contrive
to keep body and soul together."

"Then I should not sail to India on a Company's ship?"

"Far from it, indeed. But let not that disturb you, there are other vessels. And for the passage--why,
sure I could find you a place as supercargo or some such thing; you would thus keep the little
money you have and add to it, forming a nest egg which, I say it without boasting, I could
help you to hatch into a fine brood. I am not without friends in the Indies, my dear boy; there
are princes in that land whom I have assisted to their thrones; and if, on behalf of a friend,
I ask of them some  slight  thing,  provided  it be honest--'tis the first law of friendship,
says Tully, as you will remember, to seek honest things for our friends--if, I say, on your
behalf, I proffer some slight request, sure the nawabs will vie to pleasure me, and the foundation
of your fortune will be laid."

Desmond had not observed that, during this eloquent passage, Diggle had more than once glanced
beyond him, as though his mind were not wholly occupied with his oratorical efforts. It was
therefore something of a shock that he heard him say in the same level tone:

"But I perceive your brother approaching. I am not the man to cause differences between persons
near akin; I will therefore leave you; we will have further speech on the subject of our discourse."

He  moved away. A moment after, Richard Burke came up in a towering passion.

"You brave me, do you?" he cried. "Did I not forbid you to converse with that vagabond?"

"You have no right to dictate to me on such matters," said Desmond hotly, facing his brother.

"I've no right, haven't I?" shouted Richard. "I've a guardian's right to thrash you if you
disobey me, and by George! I'll keep my promise."

He lifted the riding whip, without which he seldom went abroad, and struck at Desmond. But
the boy's blood was up. He sprang aside as the thong fell; it missed him, and before the whip
could be raised again he had leaped towards his brother. Wrenching the stock from his grasp,
Desmond flung the whip over the hedge into a green-mantled pool, and stood, his cheeks pale,
his fists clenched, his eyes flaming, before the astonished man.

"Coward!" he cried, "'tis the last time you lay hands on me."

Recovered from his amazement at Desmond's resistance, Richard, purple with wrath, advanced
to seize the boy. But Desmond, nimbly evading his clutch, slipped his foot within his brother's,
and with a dexterous movement tripped him up, so that he fell sprawling, with many an oath,
on the miry road. Before he could regain his feet, Desmond had vaulted the hedge and set off
at a run towards home. Diggle was nowhere in sight.

The die was now cast. Never before had Desmond actively retaliated upon his brother, and he
knew him well enough to be sure that such an affront was  unforgivable.  The  farm would no
longer be safe for him. With startling suddenness his vague notions of leaving home were crystallized
into a resolve. No definite plan formed itself in his mind as he raced over the fields. He
only knew that the moment for departure had come, and he was hastening now to secure the little
money he possessed and to make a bundle of his clothes and the few things he valued before
Richard could return.

Reaching the Grange, he slipped quietly upstairs, not daring to face his mother, lest her grief
should weaken his resolution, and in five minutes he returned with his bundle. He stole out
through the garden, skirted the copse that bounded the farm inclosure, and ran for half a mile
up the lane until he felt that he was out of reach. Then, breathless with haste, quivering
with the shock of this sudden plunge into independence, he sat down on the grassy bank to reflect.

What had he done? It was no light thing for a boy of his years, ignorant of life and the world,
to cut himself adrift from old ties and voyage into the unknown. Had he been wise? He had no
trade as a standby; his whole endowment was his youth and his wits. Would they suffice? Diggle's
talk had opened up an immense prospect, full of color and mystery and romance, chiming well
with his daydreams. Was it possible that, sailing to India, he might find some of his dreams
come true?

Could he trust Diggle, a stranger, by his own admission an adventurer, a man  who had run through
two fortunes already? He had no reason for distrust; Diggle was well educated, a gentleman,
frank, amiable. What motive could he have for leading a boy astray?

Mingled with Desmond's Irish impulsiveness there was a strain of caution derived from the stolid
English yeomen, his forebears on the maternal side. He felt the need, before crossing his Rubicon,
of taking counsel with someone older and wiser--with a tried friend. Sir Willoughby Stokes,
the squire, had always been kind to him. Would it not be well to put his case to the squire
and follow his advice? But he durst not venture to the Hall yet. His brother might suspect
that he had gone there and seize him, or intercept him on the way. He would wait. It was the
squire's custom to spend a quiet hour in his own room long after the time when other folk in
that rural neighborhood were abed. Desmond sometimes sat with him there, reading or playing
chess. If he went up to the Hall at nine o'clock he would be sure of a welcome.

The evening passed slowly for Desmond in his enforced idleness. At nine o'clock, leaving his
bundle in a hollow tree, he set off toward the Hall, taking a short cut across the fields.
It was a dark night, and he stopped with a start as, on descending a stile overhung by a spreading
sycamore, he almost struck against a person who had just preceded him.

"Who's that?" he asked quickly, stepping back a little: it was unusual to meet anyone in the
fields at so late an hour.

"Be that you, Measter Desmond?"

"Oh, 'tis you, Dickon. What are you doing this way at such an hour? You ought to have been
abed long ago."

"Ay, sure, Measter Desmond; but I be goin' to see squire," said the old man, apparently with
some hesitation.

"That's odd. So am I. We may as well walk together, then--for fear of the ghosts, eh, Dickon?"

"I  binna afeard o' ghosts, not I. True, 'tis odd I be goin' to see squire. I feel it so. Squire
be a high man, and I ha' never dared lift up my voice to him oothout axen. But 'tis to be.
I ha' summat to tell him, low born as I be; ay, I mun tell him, cost what it may."

"Well, he's not a dragon. I have something to tell him too--cost what it may."

There was silence for a space. Then Dickon said tremulously:

"Bin it a great matter, yourn, sir, I make bold to axe?"

"That's as it turns out, Dickon. But what is it with you, old man? Is aught amiss?"

"Not  wi' me, sir, not wi' me, thank the Lord above. But I seed ya, Measter Desmond, t'other
day, in speech win that--that Diggle as he do call hisself, and--and I tell ya true, sir, I
dunna like the looks on him;  no, he binna a right man; an' I were afeard as he med ha' bin
fillin' yer head wi' fine tales about the wonders o' the world an' all."

"Is that all, Dickon? You fear my head may be turned, eh? Don't worry about me."

"Why, sir, ya may think me bold, but I do say this. If so be ya gets notions in yer head--notions
o' goin' out along an' seein' the world an' all, go up an' axe squire about it. Squire he done
have a wise head; he'll advise ya for the best; an' sure I bin he'd warn ya not to have no
dealin's win that Diggle, as he do call hissen."

"Why, does the squire know him, then?"

"'Tis my belief squire do know everything an' everybody. Diggle he med not know, to be sure,
but if so be ya say 'tis a lean man, wi' sharp nose, an' black eyes like live coals, an' a
smilin' mouth--why, squire knows them sort, he done, and wouldna trust him not a ell. But maybe
ya'd better go on, sir: my old shanks be slow fur one so young an' nimble."

"No hurry, Dickon. Lucky the squire was used to London hours in his youth, or we'd find him
abed. See, there's a light in the Hall; 'tis in the strong room next to the library; Sir Willoughby
is reckoning up his rents maybe, though 'tis late for that."

"Ay, ya knows the Hall, true. Theer be a terrible deal o gowd an' silver up in that room, fur
sure, more 'n a aged man like me could tell in a week."

"The light is moving; it seems Sir Willoughby is finishing up for the night. I hope we shall
not be too late."

But at this moment a winding of the path brought another face of the Hall into view.

"Why,  Dickon," exclaimed Desmond, "there's another light; 'tis the squire's own room. He cannot
be in two places at once; 'tis odd at this time of night. Come, stir your stumps, old man."

They hurried along, scrambling through the hedge that bounded the field, Desmond leaping, Dickon
wading the brook that ran alongside the road. Turning to the left, they came to the front entrance
to the Hall, and passed through the wicket gate into the grounds. They could see the squire's
shadow on the blind of the parlor; but the lighted window of the strong room was now hidden
from them.

Stepping in that direction, to satisfy a strange curiosity he felt, Desmond halted in amazement
as he saw, faintly silhouetted against the sky, a ladder placed against the wall, resting on
the sill of the strong room. His surprise at seeing lights in two rooms, in different wings
of the house, so late at night, changed to misgiving and suspicion. He hastened back to Dickon.

"I fear some mischief is afoot," he said. Drawing the old man into the shade of the shrubbery,
he added: "Remain here; do not stir until I come for you, or unless you hear me call."

Leaving Dickon in trembling perplexity and alarm, he stole forward on tiptoe towards the house.

At the foot of the wall lay a flower bed, now bare and black, separated by a gravel path from
a low shrubbery of laurel. Behind this latter Desmond stole, screened from observation by the
bushes. Coming to a spot exactly opposite the ladder, he saw that it rested on the sill of
the library window, which was open. The library itself was dark, but there was still a dull
glow in the next room. At the foot of the ladder stood a man.

The meaning of it all was plain. The large sum of money recently received by Sir Willoughby
as rents had tempted someone to rob him. The robber must have learned that the money was kept
in the strong room; and it argued either considerable daring or great ignorance to have timed
his visit for an hour when anyone familiar with the squire's habits would have known that he
would not yet have retired to rest.

Desmond was about to run round to the other side of the house and rouse the  squire,  when
the  dim  light in the strong room was suddenly extinguished. Apparently the confederate of
the man below had secured his booty and was preparing to return. Desmond remained fixed to
the spot, in some doubt what to do. He might call to Dickon and make a rush on the man before
him, but the laborer was old and feeble, and the criminal was no doubt armed. A disturber would
probably be shot, and though the shot would alarm the household, the burglars would have time
to escape in the darkness. Save Sir Willoughby himself, doubtless every person in the house
was by this time abed and asleep. 

To event of his causing Summat Metal, to "come perhaps" on Edinburgh,
he has no reservation if that the rex will also require his subjects
to allegiance to take his portion, the most of them will do so, especially
in Funfair, who must be bestir to drive described this french to
Dunbar.  Creeping
silently as a cat along the shrubbery, he hastened  back to the laborer, told him in a hurried
whisper of his discovery, and bade him steal round to the servants' quarters, rouse them quietly,
and bring one or two to trap the man at the foot of the ladder while others made a dash through
the library upon the marauder in the strong room. Dickon, whose wits were nimbler than his
legs, understood what he was to do and slipped away, Desmond returning to his coign of vantage
as noiselessly as he came.

He was just in time to see that a heavy object, apparently a box, was being lowered from the
library window on to the ladder. Sliding slowly down, it came to the hands of the waiting man;
immediately afterwards the rope by which it had been suspended was dropped from above, and
the dark figure of a man mounted the sill.

He already had one leg over, preparing to descend, when Desmond, with a sudden rush, dashed
through the shrubs and sprang across the path. The confederate  was  stooping over the booty;
his back was towards the shrubbery; at the snapping of twigs and the crunching of the gravel
he straightened  himself  and  turned. Before he was aware of what was happening, Desmond caught
at the ladder by the lowest rung, and jerked it violently  outwards  so  that  its  top fell
several feet below the windowsill, resting on the wall out of reach of the man above.

Desmond heard a smothered exclamation break from the fellow, but he could pay no further attention
to him, for, as he rose from stooping over the ladder, he was set upon by a burly form. He
dodged behind the ladder. The man sprang after him, blindly, clumsily, and tripped over the
box. But he was up in a moment, and, reckless of the consequences of raising an alarm, was
fumbling for a pistol, when there fell upon his ears a shout, the tramp of hurrying feet, and
the sound of another window being thrown open.

With a muffled curse he swung on his heel, and made to cross the gravel path and plunge into
the shrubbery. But Desmond was too quick for him. Springing upon his back, he caught his arms,
thus preventing him from using his pistol. He was a powerful man, and Desmond alone would have
been no match for him; but before he could wriggle himself entirely free, three half-clad men
servants came up with a rush, and in a trice he was secured.

In the excitement of these close-packed moments Desmond had forgotten the other  man,  whom
he  had last seen with his leg dangling over the windowsill. He looked up now; the window was
still open; the ladder lay exactly where he had jerked it; evidently the robber had not descended.

"Quick!"  cried  Desmond. "Round to the door! The other fellow will escape!"

He himself sprinted round the front of the house to the door by which the servants had issued,
and met the squire hobbling along on his stick, pistol in hand.

"We have got one, sir!" cried Desmond. "Have you seen the other?"

"What--why--how  many villains are there?" replied the squire, who, between  amazement  and
wrath, was scarcely able to appreciate the situation.

"There was a man in the library; he did not come down the ladder; he may be still in the house."

"The deuce he is! Desmond, take the pistol, and shoot the knave like a dog if you meet him."

"I'll guard the door, Sir Willoughby. They are bringing the other man round. Then we'll go
into the house and search. He can't get out without being seen if the other doors are locked."

"Locked and barred. I did it myself an hour ago. I'll hang the villain."

In a few moments the servants came up with their captive and the box, old Dickon following.
Only their figures could be seen: it was too dark to distinguish features.

"You scoundrel!" cried the squire, brandishing his stick. "You'll hang for this.

"Take him into the house. In with you all.

"You scoundrel!"

"An' you please, Sir Willoughby, 'tis--" began one of the servants.

"In with you, I say," roared the squire. "I'll know how to deal with the villain."

The culprit was hustled into the house, and the group followed, Sir Willoughby bringing up
the rear. Inside he barred and locked the door, and bade the men carry their prisoner to the
library. The corridors and staircase were dark, but by the time the squire had mounted on his
gouty legs, candles had been lighted, and the face of the housebreaker was for the first time
visible. Two servants held the man; the others, with Desmond and Dickon, looked on in amazement.

"Job Grinsell, on my soul and body!" cried the squire. "You villain! You ungrateful knave!
Is this how you repay me? I might have hanged you, you scoundrel, when you poached my game;
a word from me and Sir Philip would have seen you whipped before he let his inn to you; but
I was too kind; I am a fool; and you--by, gad, you shall hang this time."

The squire's face was purple with anger, and he shook his stick as though then  and there he
would have wrought chastisement on the offender. Grinsell's flabby face, however, expressed
amusement rather than fear.

"Bless my soul!" cried the squire, suddenly turning to his men, "I'd forgotten the other villain.
Off with you; search for him; bring him here."

Desmond had already set off to look for Grinsell's accomplice. Taper in hand he went quickly
from room to room; joined by the squire's servants, he searched every nook and cranny of the
house, examining doors and windows, opening cupboards, poking at curtains--all in vain. At
last, at the end of a dark corridor, he came upon an open window some ten feet above the ground.
It was so narrow that a man of ordinary size must have had some difficulty in squeezing his
shoulders through; but Desmond was forced to the conclusion that the housebreaker had sprung
out here, and by this time had made good his escape. Disappointed at his failure, he returned
with the servants to the library.

"We can't find him, Sir Willoughby," said Desmond, as he opened the door.

To his surprise, Grinsell and Dickon were gone; no one but the squire was in the room, and
he was sitting in a big chair, limp and listless, his eyes fixed upon the floor.

"We can't find him," repeated Desmond.

The squire looked up.

"What did you say?" he asked, as though the events of the past half-hour were a blank. "Oh,
'tis you, Desmond, yes; what can I do for you?"

Desmond was embarrassed.

"I--we have--we have looked for the other villain, Sir Willoughby," he stammered. "We can't
find him."

"Ah! 'Twas you gave the alarm. Good boy; zeal, excellent; but a little mistake; yes, Grinsell
explained; a mistake, Desmond."

The squire spoke hurriedly, disconnectedly, with an embarrassment even greater than Desmond's.

"But, sir," the boy began, "I saw--"

"Yes, yes," interrupted the old man. "I know all about it. But Grinsell's explanation--yes,
I know all about it. I am obliged to you, Desmond; but I am satisfied with Grinsell's explanation;
I shall go no further in the matter."

He groaned and put his hand to his head.

"Are you ill, Sir Willoughby?" asked Desmond anxiously.

The squire looked up; his face was an image of distress. He was silent for a moment; then said
slowly:

"Sick at heart, Desmond, sick at heart. I am an old man--an old man."

Desmond was uncomfortable. He had never seen the squire in such a mood, and had a healthy boy's
natural uneasiness at any display of feeling.

"You see that portrait?" the squire went on, pointing wearily with his stick at the head of
a young man done in oils. "The son of my oldest friend--my dear old friend Merriman. I never
told you of him. Nine years ago, Desmond--nine years ago, my old friend was as hale and hearty
a man as  myself,  and George was the apple of his eye. They were for the king--God save him!-and
when word came that Prince Charles was marching south  from  Scotland, they arranged secretly
with a party of loyal gentlemen to join him. But I hung back; I had not their courage; I am
alive, and I lost my friend."

His voice sank, and, leaning heavily upon his stick, he gazed vacantly into space. Desmond
was perplexed and still more ill at ease. What had this to do with the incidents of the night?
He shrank from asking the question.

"Yes,  I lost my friend," the squire continued. "We had news of the prince; he had left Carlisle;
he was moving southwards, about to strike a blow for his father's throne. He was approaching
Derby. George Merriman sent  a  message  to  his friends, appointing a rendezvous: gallant
gentlemen, they would join the Stuart flag! The day came, they met, and the minions of the
Hanoverian surrounded them. Betrayed!--poor, loyal gentlemen, betrayed by one who had their
confidence and abused it--one of my own blood, Desmond--the shame of it! They were tried, hanged--hanged!
It broke my old friend's heart; he died; 'twas one of my blood that killed him."

Again speech failed him. Then, with a sudden change of manner, he said:

"But 'tis late, boy; your brother keeps early hours. I am not myself tonight; the memory of
the past unnerves me. Bid me good night, boy."

Desmond hesitated, biting his lips. What of the motive of his visit? He had come to ask advice;
could he go without having mentioned the subject that troubled him? The old man had sunk into
a reverie; his lips moved as though he communed with himself. Desmond had not the heart to
intrude his concerns on one so bowed with grief.

"Good night, Sir Willoughby!" he said.

The squire paid no heed, and Desmond, vexed, bewildered, went slowly from the room.

At the outer door he found Dickon awaiting him.

"The squire has let Grinsell go, Dickon," he said; "he says 'twas all a mistake."

"If squire says it, then 't must be," said Dickon slowly, nodding his head.

"We'n better be goin' home, sir."

"But you had something to tell Sir Willoughby?"

"Ay, sure, but he knows it--knows it better'n me."

"Come, Dickon, what is this mystery! I am in a maze; what is it, man?"

"Binna fur a aged, poor feller like me to say. We'n better go home, sir."

Nothing that Desmond said prevailed upon Dickon to tell more, and the two started homewards
across the fields.

Some  minutes  afterwards  they  heard the sound of a horse's hoofs clattering on the road
to their left, and going in the same direction. It was an unusual sound at that late hour,
and both stopped instinctively and looked at each other.

"A late traveler, Dickon," said Desmond.

"Ay, maybe a king's post, Measter Desmond," replied the old man.

Without more words they went on till they came to a lane leading to the laborer's cottage.

"We part here," said Desmond. "Dickon, good night!"

"Good night to you, sir!" said the old man. He paused; then, in a grave, earnest, quavering
voice, he added: "The Lord Almighty have you in his keeping,  Measter  Desmond,  watch  over
you night and day, now and evermore."

And with that he hobbled down the lane.

At nine o'clock that night Richard Burke left the Grange--an unusual thing for him--and walked
quickly to the Four Alls. The inn was closed, and shutters darkened the windows; but, seeing
a chink of light between the  folds, the farmer knocked at the door. There was no answer. He
knocked again and again, grumbling under his breath. At length, when his patience was almost
exhausted, a window above opened, and, looking up, Mr. Burke dimly saw a head.

"Is that you, Grinsell?" he asked.

"No, massa."

"Oh, you're the black boy, Mr. Diggle's servant. Is your master in?"

"No, massa."

"Well, come down and open the door. I'll wait for him."

"Massa said no open door for nuffin."

"Confound you, open at once! He knows me; I'm a friend of his; open the door!"

"Massa said no open door for nobody."

The farmer pleaded, stormed, cursed, but Scipio Africanus was inflexible. His master had given
him orders, and the boy had learned, at no little cost, that it was the wisest and safest policy
to obey. Finding that neither threats nor persuasion availed, Burke took a stride or two in
the direction of home; then he halted, pondered for a moment, changed his mind, and began to
pace up and down the road.

His restless movements were by and by checked by the sound of footsteps approaching. He crossed
the road, stood in the shadow of an elm and waited. The footsteps drew nearer; he heard low
voices, and now discerned two dark figures against the lighter road. They came to the inn and
stopped. One of them took a key from his pocket and inserted it in the lock.

"'Tis  you  at  last,"  said  Burke, stepping out from his place of concealment. "That boy
of yours would not let me in, hang him!"

At the first words Diggle started and swung round, his right hand flying to his pocket; but,
recognizing the voice almost immediately, he laughed.

"'Tis you, my friend," he said. "Multa de nocte profectus es. But you've forgot all your Latin,
Dick. What is the news, man? Come in."

"The bird is flitting, Sim, that's all. He has not been home. His mother was in a rare to-do.
I pacified her; told her I'd sent him to Chester to sell oats--haw, haw! He has taken some
clothes and gone. But he won't go far, I trow, without seeing you, and I look to you to carry
out the bargain."

"Egad, Dick, I need no persuasion. He won't go without me, I promise you that. I've a bone
to pick with him myself--eh, friend Job?"

Grinsell swore a hearty oath. At this moment the silence without was broken by the sound of
a trotting horse.

"Is the door bolted?" whispered Burke. "I mustn't be seen here."

"Trust me fur that," said Grinsell. "But no one will stop here at this time o' night."

But  the three men stood silent, listening. The sound steadily grew louder; the horse was almost
abreast of the inn; it was passing--but no, it came to a halt; they heard a man's footsteps,
and the sound of the bridle being hitched to a hook in the wall. Then there was a sharp rap
at the door.

"Who's there?" cried Grinsell gruffly.

"Open the door instantly," said a loud, masterful voice.

Burke looked aghast.

"You can't let him in," he whispered.

The others exchanged glances.

"Open  the  door," cried the voice again. "D'you hear, Grinsell? At once!--or I ride to Drayton
for the constables."

Grinsell gave Diggle a meaning look.

"Slip out by the back door, Mr. Burke," said the innkeeper. "I'll make a noise with the bolts
so that he cannot hear you."

Burke hastily departed, and Grinsell, after long, loud fumbling with the bolts, threw open
the door and gave admittance to the squire.

"Ah, you are here both," said Sir Willoughby, standing in the middle of the floor, his riding
whip in his hand.

"Now, Mr.--Diggle, I think you call yourself, I'm a man of few words, as you know. I have to
say this, I give you till eight o'clock tomorrow morning; if you are not gone, bag and baggage,
by that time, I will issue a warrant. Is that clear?"

"Perfectly," said Diggle with his enigmatical smile.

"And one word more. Show your face again in these parts and I shall have you arrested. I have
spared you twice for your mother's sake. This is my last warning.

"Grinsell, you hear that, too?"

"I hear 't," growled the man.

"Remember it, for, mark my words, you'll share his fate."

The squire was gone.

Grinsell scowled with malignant spite; Diggle laughed softly.

"Quanta de spe decidi!" he said, "which in plain English, friend Job, means that we are dished--utterly,
absolutely. I must go on my travels again. Well, such was my intention; the only difference
is, that I go with an empty purse instead of a full one. Who'd have thought the old dog would
ha' been such an unconscionable time dying!"

"Gout or no gout, he's good for another ten year," growled the innkeeper.

"Well, I'll give him five. And, with the boy out of the way, maybe I'll come to my own even
yet. The young puppy!"

At this moment Diggle's face was by no means pleasant to look upon.

"Fate has always had a grudge against me, Job. In the old days, I bethink me, 'twas I that
was always found out. You had many an escape."

"Till the last. But I've come out of this well." He chuckled. "To think what a fool blood makes
of a man! Squire winna touch me, 'cause of you. But it must gall him; ay, it must gall him."

"I--list!" said Diggle suddenly. "There are footsteps again. Is it Burke coming back? The door's
open, Job."

The innkeeper went to the door and peered into the dark. A slight figure came up at that moment--a
boy, with a bundle in his hand.

"Is that you, Grinsell? Is Mr. Diggle in?"

"Come in, my friend," said Diggle, hastening to the door. "We were just talking of you. Come
in; 'tis a late hour; si vespertinus subito--you remember old Horace? True, we haven't a hen
to baste with Falernian for you, but sure friend Job can find a wedge of Cheshire and a mug
of ale. Come in."

And Desmond went into the inn.

One warm October afternoon, some ten days after the night of his visit to the Four Alls, Desmond
was walking along the tow path of the Thames, somewhat north of Kingston. As he came to the
spot where the river bends round towards Teddington, he met a man plodding along with a rope
over his shoulder, hauling a laden hoy.

"Can you tell me the way to the Waterman's Rest?" asked Desmond.

"Ay, that can I," replied the man without stopping. "'Tis about a quarter mile  behind me,
right on waterside. And the best beer this side o' Greenwich."

Thanking him, Desmond walked on. He had not gone many yards farther before there fell upon
his ear, from some point ahead, the sound of several  rough voices raised in chorus, trolling
a tune that seemed familiar to him. As he came nearer to the singers, he distinguished the
words of the song, and remembered the occasion on which he had heard them before: the evening
of Clive's banquet at Market Drayton--the open window of the Four Alls, the voice of Marmaduke
Diggle.

"Sir William Norris, Masulipatam"--these were the first words he caught; and immediately afterwards
the voices broke into the second verse:

"Says Governor Pitt, Fort George, Madras, 'I know what you are: an ass, an ass, An ass, an
ass, an ASS, an ASS,' Signed 'Governor Pitt, Fort George, Madras.'"

And at the conclusion there was a clatter of metal upon wood, and then one voice, loud and
rotund, struck up the first verse once more--"Says Billy Norris, Masulipatam"--The singer was
in the middle of the stave when Desmond, rounding a privet hedge, came upon the scene. A patch
of greensward,  sloping  up  from  a  slipway on the riverside; a low, cozy-looking inn of
red brick covered with a crimson creeper; in front of it a long deal table, and seated at the
table a group of some eight or ten seamen, each with a pewter tankard before him. To the left,
and somewhat in the rear of the long table, was a smaller one, at which two seamen, by their
garb a cut above the others, sat opposite each other, intent on some game.

Desmond's attention was drawn towards the larger table. Rough as was the common seaman of George
the Second's time, the group here collected would have been hard to match for villainous looks.
One had half his teeth knocked out, another a broken nose; all bore scars and other marks of
battery.

Among  them,  however,  there was one man marked out by his general appearance and facial expression
as superior to the rest. In dress he was no different from his mates; he wore the loose blouse,
the pantaloons, the turned-up cloth hat of the period. But he towered above them in height;
he had a very large head, with a very small squab nose, merry eyes, and a fringe of jet-black
hair round cheeks and chin.

When he removed his hat presently he revealed a shiny pink skull, rising from short, wiry hair
as black as his whiskers. Alone of the group, he wore no love locks or greased pigtail. In
his right hand, when Desmond first caught sight of him, he held a tankard, waving it to and
fro in time with his song. He had lost his left hand and forearm, which were replaced by an
iron hook projecting from a wooden socket, just visible in his loose sleeve.

He was halfway through the second stanza when he noticed Desmond standing at the angle of the
hedge a few yards away.

The others took up the chorus, and finally brought their tankards down upon the deal with a
resounding whack.

"Ahoy, Mother Wiggs, more beer!" shouted the big man.

Desmond went forward.

"Is this the Waterman's Rest?"

"Ay, ay, young gen'leman, and a blamed restful place it is, too, fit for watermen what en't
naught but landlubbers, speaking by the book, but not fit for the likes of us jack tars. Eh,
mateys?"

His companions grunted acquiescence.

"I have a message for Mr. Toley; is he here?"

"Ay, that he is. That's him at the table yonder.

"Mr. Toley, sir, a young gen'leman to see you."

Desmond advanced to the smaller table. The two men looked up from their game of dominoes. One
was a tall, lean fellow, with lined and sunken cheeks covered with iron-gray stubble, a very
sharp nose, and colorless eyes; the expression of his features was melancholy in the extreme.
The other was a shorter man, snub-nosed, big-mouthed; one eye was blue, the other green, and
they looked in contrary directions. His hat was tilted forward, resting on two bony prominences
above his eyebrows.

"Well?" said Mr. Toley, the man of melancholy countenance.

"I have a message from Captain Barker," said Desmond. "I am to say that he expects you and
the men at Custom House Quay next Wednesday morning, high tide at five o'clock."

Mr. Toley lifted the tankard at his left hand, drained it, smacked his lips, then said in a
hollow voice:

"Bulger, Custom House Quay, Wednesday morning, five o'clock."

A grunt of satisfaction and relief rolled round the company, and in response to repeated cries
for more beer a stout woman in a mob cap and dirty apron came from the inn with a huge copper
can, from which she proceeded to fill the empty tankards.

"Is the press still hot, sir?" asked Mr. Toley.

"Yes.  Four  men,  I  was  told, were hauled out of the Good Intent yesterday."

"And four bad bargains for the king," put in the second man, whose cross glances caused Desmond
no little discomfort.

At this moment Joshua Wiggs, the innkeeper, came up, carrying three fowling pieces.

"There be plenty o' ducks today, mister," he said.

"Then we'll try our luck," said Mr. Toley, rising.

"Thank 'ee, my lad," he added to Desmond. "You'll take a sup with the men afore you go?

"Bulger, see to the gentleman."

"Ay, ay, sir.

"Come aboard, matey."

He made a place for Desmond at his side on the bench, and called to Mother Wiggs to bring a
mug for the gentleman. Meanwhile, Mr. Toley and his companion had each taken a fowling piece
and gone away with the landlord. Bulger winked at his companions, and when the sportsmen were
out of earshot he broke into a guffaw.

"Rare  sport  they'll  have! I wouldn't be in Mr. Toley's shoes for something.  What's a cock-eyed
man want with a gun in his hand, eh, mateys?"

Desmond felt somewhat out of his element in his present company; but having reasons of his
own for making himself pleasant, he said, by way of opening a conversation:

"You seem pleased at the idea of going to sea again, Mr. Bulger."

"Well, we are and we en't, eh, mateys? The Waterman's Rest en't exactly the kind of place to
spend shore leave; it en't a patch on Wapping or Rotherhithe. And to tell 'ee true, we're dead
sick of it. But there's reasons; there mostly is; and the whys and wherefores, therefores and
becauses,  I  dessay you know, young gen'lman, acomin' from Captain Barker."

"The press gang?"

"Ay, the press is hot in these days. Cap'n sent us here to be out o' the way, and the orficers
to look arter us. Not but what 'tis safer for them too; for if Mr. Sunman showed his cock-eyes
anywhere near the Pool, he'd be nabbed by the bailiffs, sure as he's second mate o' the Good
Intent. Goin' to sea's bad enough, but the Waterman's Rest and holdin' on the slack here's
worse, eh, mateys?"

"Ay, you're right there, Bulger."

"But why don't you like going to sea?" asked Desmond.

"Why? You're a landlubber, sir--meanin' no offense--or you wouldn't axe sich a foolish question.
At sea 'tis all rope's end and salt pork, with Irish horse for a tit-bit."

"Irish horse?"

"Ay. That's our name for it. 'Cos why? Explain to the gen'lman, mateys."

With a laugh the men began to chant-- "Salt horse, salt horse, what brought you here? You've
carried turf for many a year. From Dublin quay to Mallyack You've carried turf upon your back."

"That's the why and wherefore of it," added Bulger. "Cooks call it salt beef, same as French
mounseers don't like the sound of taters an' calls 'em pummy detair; but we calls it Irish
horse, which we know the flavor. Accordingly, notwithstandin' an' for that reason, if you axe
the advice of an old salt, never you go to sea, matey."

"That's unfortunate," said Desmond, with a smile, "because I expect to sail next Wednesday
morning, high tide at five o'clock."

"Binks and barnacles! Be you a-goin' to sail with us?"

"I hope so."

"Billy come up! You've got business out East, then?"

"Not yet, but I hope to have. I'm going out as supercargo."

"Oh! As supercargo!"

Bulger winked at his companions, and a hoarse titter went the round of the table.

"Well," continued Bulger, "the supercargo do have a better time of it than us poor chaps. And
what do Cap'n Barker say to you as supercargo, which you are very young, sir?"

"I don't know Captain Barker."

"Oho! But I thought as how you brought a message from the captain?"

"Yes, but it came through Mr. Diggle."

"Ah! Mr. Diggle?"

"A friend of mine--a friend of the captain. He has arranged everything."

"I believe you, matey. He's arranged everything. Supercargo! Well, to be sure! Never a supercargo
as I ever knowed but wanted a man to look arter him, fetch and carry for him, so to say. How
would I do, if I might make so bold?"

"Thanks," said Desmond, smiling as he surveyed the man's huge form. "But I think Captain Barker
might object to that. You'd be of more use on deck, in spite of--"

He paused, but his glance at the iron hook had not escaped Bulger's observant eye.

"Spite of the curlin' tongs, you'd say. Bless you, spit it out; I en't tender in my feelin's."

"Besides," added Desmond, "I shall probably make use of the boy who has been attending to me
at the Goat and Compasses--a clever little black boy of Mr. Diggle's."

"Black boys be hanged! I never knowed a Sambo as was any use on board ship. They howls when
they're sick, and they're allers sick, and never larns to tell a marlinspike from a belayin' pin."

"But Scipio isn't one of that sort. He's never sick, Mr. Diggle says; they've been several
voyages together, and Scipio knows a ship from stem to stern."

"Scipio, which his name is? Uncommon name, that."

There was a new tone in Bulger's voice, and he gave Desmond a keen and, as it seemed, a troubled
look.

"Yes, it is strange," replied the boy, vaguely aware of the change of manner. "But Mr. Diggle
has ways of his own."

"This Mr. Diggle, now; I may be wrong, but I should say--yes, he's short, with bow legs and
a wart on his cheek?"

"No, no; you must be thinking of some one else. He is tall, rather a well-looking man; he hasn't
a wart, but there is a scar on his brow, something like yours."

"Ah,  I  know  they  sort;  a fightin' sort o' feller, with a voice like--which I say, like
a nine pounder?"

"Well, not exactly; he speaks rather quietly; he is well educated, too, to judge by the Latin
he quotes."

"Sure now, a scholard. Myself, I never had no book larnin' to speak of; never got no further
than pothooks an' hangers!"

He laughed as he lifted his hook. But he seemed to be disinclined for further conversation.
He buried his face in his tankard, and when he had taken a long pull, set the vessel on the
table and stared at it with a preoccupied air. He seemed to have forgotten the presence of
Desmond. The other men were talking among themselves, and Desmond, having by this time finished
his mug of beer, rose to go on his way.

"Goodby, Mr. Bulger," he said; "we shall meet again next Wednesday."

"Ay, ay, sir," returned the man.

He looked long after the boy as he walked away.

"Supercargo!" he muttered. "Diggle! I may be wrong, but--"

Desmond had come through Southwark and across Clapham and Wimbledon Common,  thus approaching
the Waterman's Rest from the direction of Kingston. Accustomed as he was to long tramps, he
felt no fatigue, and with a boy's natural curiosity he decided to return to the city by a different
route, following the river bank. He had not walked far before he came to the ferry at Twickenham.
The view on the other side of the river attracted him: meadows dotted with cows and sheep,
a verdant hill with pleasant villas here and there; and, seeing the ferryman resting on his
oars, he accosted him.

"Can I get to London if I cross here?" he asked.

"Sure you can, sir. Up the hill past Mr. Walpole his house; then you comes to Isleworth and
Brentford, and a straight road through Hammersmith village--a fine walk, sir, and only a penny
for the ferryman."

Desmond paid his penny and crossed. He sauntered along up Strawberry Hill, taking a good look
at the snug little house upon which Mr. Horace Walpole was spending much money and pains. Wandering
on, and preferring bylanes to the high road, he lost his bearings, and at length, fearing that
he was going in the wrong direction, he stopped at a wayside cottage to inquire the way.

He was farther out than he knew. The woman who came to the door in answer to his knock said
that, having come so far, he had better proceed in the same direction until he reached Hounslow,
and then strike into the London road and keep to it.

Desmond was nothing loath. He had heard of Hounslow and those notorious "Diana's foresters,"
Plunket and James Maclean--highwaymen who a few years before had been the terror of night travelers
across the lonely Heath. There was a fascination about the scene of their exploits. So he trudged
on, feeling now a little tired, and hoping to get a lift in some farmer's cart that might be
going towards London.

More than once as he walked his thoughts recurred to the scene at the Waterman's Rest. They
were a rough, villainous-looking set, these members of the crew of the Good Intent! Of course,
as supercargo he would not come into close contact with them; and Mr. Diggle had warned him
that he would find seafaring men somewhat different from the country folk among whom all his
life hitherto had been passed.

Diggle's frankness had pleased him. They had left the Four Alls early on the morning after
that strange incident at the squire's. Desmond had told his friend what had happened, and Diggle,
apparently surprised to learn of Grinsell's villainy, had declared that the sooner they were
out of his company the better. They had come by easy stages to London, and were now lodging
at a small inn near the Tower: not a very savory neighborhood, Diggle admitted, but convenient.
Diggle had soon obtained for Desmond a berth on board the Good Intent bound for the East Indies,
and from what he let drop, the boy understood that he was to sail as supercargo.

He had not yet seen the vessel; she was painting, and would shortly be coming up to the Pool.
Nor had he seen Captain Barker, who was very much occupied, said Diggle, and had a great deal
of trouble in keeping his crew out of the clutches of the press gang. Some of the best of them
had been sent to the Waterman's Rest in charge of the chief and second mates. It was at Diggle's
suggestion that he had been deputed to convey the captain's message to the men.

It was drawing towards evening when Desmond reached Hounslow Heath; a wide, bare expanse of
scrubby land intersected by a muddy road. A light mist lay over the ground, and he was thankful
that the road to London was perfectly direct, so that there was no further risk of his losing
his way. The solitude and the dismal appearance of the country, together with its ill repute,
made him quicken his pace, though he had no fear of molestation; having nothing to lose, he
would be but poor prey for a highwayman,  and  he  trusted to his cudgel to protect him from
the attentions of any single footpad or tramp.

Striding along in the gathering dusk, he came suddenly upon a curious scene. A heavy traveling
carriage was drawn half across the road, its forewheels perilously near the ditch. Near by
was a lady, standing with arms stiff and hands clenched, stamping her foot as she addressed,
in no measured terms, two men who were rolling over one another in a desperate tussle a few
yards away on the heath. As Desmond drew nearer he perceived that a second and younger lady
stood at the horses' heads, grasping the bridles firmly with both hands.

His footsteps were unheard on the heavy road, and the elder lady's back being towards him,
he came up to her unawares. She started with a little cry  when she saw a stranger move towards
her out of the gloom. But perceiving  at a second glance that he was only a boy, with nothing
villainous about his appearance, she turned to him impulsively and, taking him by the sleeve, said:

"There! You see them! The wretches! They are drunk and pay no heed to me! Can you part them?
I do not wish to be benighted on this heath. The wretch uppermost is the coachman."

"I might part them, perhaps," said Desmond dubiously. "Of course I will try, ma'am."

"Sure I wouldn't trust 'em, mamma," called the younger lady from the horses' heads. "The man
is too drunk to drive."

"I fear 'tis so. 'Tis not our own man, sir. As we returned today from a visit to Taplow our
coachman was trampled by a horse at Slough, and my husband stayed with him--an old and trusty
servant--till he could consult a surgeon. We found a substitute at the inn to drive us home.
But the wretch brought a bottle; he drank with the footman all along the road; and now, as
you see, they are at each other's throats in their drunken fury. Sure we shall never get home
in time for the rout we are bid to."

"Shall I drive you to London, ma'am?" said Desmond, "'Twere best to leave the men to settle
their differences."

"But can you drive?"

"Oh, yes," replied Desmond, with a smile. "I am used to horses."

"Then I beg you to oblige us. Yes, let the wretches fight themselves sober.

"Phyllis, this gentleman will drive us; come."

The  girl--a  fair,  rosy  cheeked, merry-eyed damsel of fifteen or thereabouts--left the horses'
heads and entered the carriage with her mother. Desmond made a rapid examination of the harness
to see that all was  right; then he mounted the box and drove off. The noise of the rumbling
wheels penetrated the besotted intelligence of the struggling men; they scrambled to their
feet, looked wildly about them, and set off in  pursuit. But they had no command of their limbs;
they staggered clumsily this way and that, and finally found their level in the slimy ditch
that flanked the road.

Desmond whipped up the horses in the highest spirits. He had hoped for a lift in a farmer's
cart; fortune had favored him in giving him four roadsters to drive himself. And no boy, certainly
not one of his romantic impulses,  but  would  feel elated at the idea of helping ladies in
distress, and on a spot known far and wide as the scene of perilous adventure.

The carriage was heavy; the road, though level, was thick with autumn mud; and the horses made
no great speed. Desmond, indeed, durst not urge them too much, for the mist was thickening,
making the air even darker than the hour warranted; and as the roadway had neither hedge nor
wall to define it, but was bounded on each side by a ditch, it behooved him to go warily.

He had just come to a particularly heavy part of the road where the horses were compelled to
walk, when he heard the thud of hoofs some distance behind him. The sound made him vaguely
uneasy. It ceased for a moment or two; then he heard it again, and realized that the horse
was coming at full gallop. Instinctively he whipped up the horses. The ladies had also heard
the sound; and, putting her head out of the window, the elder implored him to drive faster.

Could the two besotted knaves have put the horseman on his track, he wondered. They must believe
that the carriage had been run away with, and in their tipsy rage they would seize any means
of overtaking him that offered. The horseman might be an inoffensive traveler; on the other
hand, he might not. It was best to leave nothing to chance. With a cheery word, to give the
ladies confidence, he lashed at the horses and forced the carriage on at a pace that put its
clumsy springs to a severe test.

Fortunately the road was straight, and the horses instinctively kept to the middle of the track.
But fast as they were now going, Desmond felt that if the horseman was indeed pursuing he would
soon be overtaken. He must be prepared for the worst. Gripping the reins hard with his left
hand, he dropped the whip for a moment and felt in the box below the seat in the hope of finding
a pistol; but it was empty.

He whistled under his breath at the discovery: if the pursuer was a "gentleman of the road"
his predicament was indeed awkward. The carriage was rumbling and rattling so noisily that
he had long since lost the sound of the horse's hoofs behind. He could not pause to learn if
the pursuit had ceased; his only course was to drive on. Surely he would soon reach the edge
of the heath; there would be houses; every few yards must bring him nearer to the possibility
of obtaining help. Thus thinking, he clenched his teeth and lashed the reeking flanks of the
horses, which plunged along now at a mad gallop.

Suddenly, above the noise of their hoofs and the rattling of the coach he heard an angry shout.
A scream came from the ladies. Heeding neither, Desmond quickly reversed his whip, holding
it halfway down the long handle, with the heavy iron-tipped stock outward. The horseman came
galloping up on the right side, shouted to Desmond to stop, and without waiting drew level
with the box and fired point blank.

But the rapid movement of his horse and the swaying of the carriage forbade him to take careful
aim. Desmond felt the wind of the bullet as it whizzed past him. Next moment he leaned slightly
sidewise, and, never loosening  his hold on the reins with his left hand, he brought the weighty
butt of his whip with a rapid cut, half sidewise, half downwards, upon the horseman's head.
The man with a cry swerved on the saddle; almost before Desmond could recover his balance he
was amazed to see the horse dash suddenly to the right, spring across the ditch, and gallop
at full speed across the heath.

But he had no time at the moment to speculate on this very easy victory. The horses, alarmed
by the pistol shot, were plunging madly, dragging the vehicle perilously near to the ditch
on the left hand. Then Desmond's familiarity  with animals, gained at so much cost to himself
on his brother's farm, bore good fruit. He spoke to the horses soothingly, managed them with
infinite tact, and coaxed them into submission. Then he let them have their heads, and they
galloped on at speed, pausing only when they reached the turnpike going into Brentford. They
were then in a bath of foam; their flanks heaving like to burst.

Learning from the turnpike man that he could obtain a change of horses at the "Bull" inn, Desmond
drove there, and was soon upon his way again.

While the change was being made, he obtained from the lady the address in Soho  Square  where
she was staying. The new horses were fresh; the carriage rattled through Gunnersbury, past
the turnpike at Hammersmith and through Kensington, and soon after nine o'clock Desmond had
the satisfaction of pulling up at the door of Sheriff Soames' mansion in Soho Square.

The door was already open, the rattle of wheels having brought lackeys with lighted torches
to welcome the belated travelers. Torches flamed in the cressets on both sides of the entrance.
The hall was filled with servants and members of the household, and in the bustle that ensued
when the ladies in their brocades and hoops had entered the house, Desmond saw an opportunity
of slipping away. He felt that it was perhaps a little ungracious to go without a word to the
ladies; but he was tired; he was unaccustomed to town society, and the service he had been
able to render seemed to him so slight that he was modestly eager to efface himself. Leaving
the carriage in the hands of one of the lackeys, with a few words of explanation, he hastened
on towards Holborn and the city.

It was four o'clock, and Tuesday afternoon--the day before the Good Intent was to sail from
the Pool. Desmond was kicking his heels in his inn, longing for the morrow. Even now he had
not seen the vessel on which he was to set forth in quest of his fortune. She lay in the Pool,
but Diggle had found innumerable reasons why Desmond should not visit her until he embarked
for good and all. She was loading her cargo; he would be in the way. Captain Barker was in
a bad temper; better not see him in his  tantrums. The press gangs were active; they thought
nothing of boarding a vessel and seizing on any active young fellow who looked a likely subject
for his Majesty's navy. Such were the reasons alleged.

And so Desmond had to swallow his impatience and fill in his time as best he might; reading
the newspapers, going to see Mr. Garrick and Mistress Kitty Clive at Drury Lane, spending an
odd evening at Ranelagh Gardens.

On this Tuesday afternoon he had nothing to do. Diggle was out; Desmond had read the newspapers
and glanced at the last number of the World; he had written to his mother--the third letter
since his arrival in London; he could not settle to anything. He resolved to go for a walk
as far as St. Paul's, perhaps, and take a last look at the busy streets he was not likely to
see again for many a day.

Forth then he issued. The streets were muddy; a mist was creeping up from the river, promising
to thicken into a London fog, and the link boys were already preparing their tow and looking
for a rich harvest of coppers ere the night was old. Desmond picked his way through the quagmires
of John Street, crossed Crutched Friars, and went up Mark Lane into Fenchurch Street, intending
to go by Leadenhall Street and Cornhill into Cheapside.

He  had  just  reached the lower end of Billiter Street, the narrow thoroughfare leading into
Leadenhall, when he saw Diggle's tall figure running amain towards him, with another man close
behind, apparently in hot pursuit. Diggle caught sight of Desmond at the same moment, and his
eyes gleamed as with relief. He quickened his pace.

"Hold this fellow behind me," he panted as he passed, and before Desmond could put a question
he was gone.

There was no time for deliberation. Desmond had but just perceived that the pursuer was in
the garb of a gentleman and had a broad patch of plaster stretched across his left temple,
when the moment for action arrived. Stooping low, he suddenly caught at the man's knees. Down
he came heavily, mouthing hearty abuse, and man and boy were on the ground together.

Desmond was up first. He now saw that a second figure was hurrying on from the other end of
the street. He was not sure what Diggle demanded of him; whether it was sufficient to have
tripped up the pursuer, or whether he must hold him still in play. But by this time the man
was also on his feet; his hat was off, his silk breeches and brown coat with lace ruffles were
all bemired. Puffing and blowing, uttering many a round oath such as came freely to the lips
of the Englishman of King George the Second's time, he shouted to his friend behind to come
on, and, disregarding Desmond, made to continue his pursuit.

Desmond could but grapple with him.

"Let go, villain!" cried the man, striving to free himself.

Desmond clung on; there was a brief struggle, but he was no match in size or strength for his
opponent, who was thick-set and of considerable girth. He fell backwards, overborne by the
man's weight. His head struck on the road; dazed by the blow he loosened his clutch, and lay
for a moment in semi-consciousness while the man sprang away.

But he was not so far gone as not to hear a loud shout behind him and near at hand, followed
by the tramp of feet.

"Avast there!" The voice was familiar: surely it was Bulger's. "Fair play! Fourteen stone against
seven en't odds. Show a leg, mateys."

The big sailor with a dozen of his mates stood full in the path of the irate gentleman, who,
seeing himself beset, drew his rapier and prepared to fight his way through. A moment later
he was joined by his companion, who had also drawn his rapier. Together the gentlemen stood
facing the sailors.

"This  is  check,  Merriman,"  said  the last comer, as the seamen, flourishing their hangers
menacingly, pressed forward past the prostrate body  of  Desmond.  "The  fellow  has escaped
you; best withdraw at discretion."

"Come on," shouted Bulger, waving his hook. "Bill Bulger en't the man to sheer off from a couple
of landlubbers."

As with his mates in line he steadily advanced, the two gentlemen, their lips set, their eyes
fixed on the assailants, their rapiers pointed, backed slowly up the street. The noise had
brought clerks and merchants to the doors; someone sprang a rattle; there were cries for the
watchmen; but no one actively interfered.

Meanwhile Desmond had regained his senses, and, still feeling somewhat dizzy,  had sat down
upon a doorstep, wondering not a little at the pursuit and flight of Diggle and the opportune
arrival of the sailors. Everything had happened very rapidly; scarcely two minutes had elapsed
since the first onset.

He was still resting when there was a sudden change in the quality of the shouts up street.
Hitherto they had been boisterous rallying cries; now they were unmistakably hearty British
cheers, expressing nothing but approval and admiration. And they came not merely from the throats
of the sailors, but from the now considerable crowd that filled the street. A few moments afterwards
he saw the throng part, and through it Bulger marching at the head of his mates, singing lustily.
They came opposite to the step on which he sat, and Bulger caught sight of him.

"Blest if it en't our supercargo!" he cried, stopping short.

A shout of laughter broke from the sailors. One of them struck up a song.

"Oho! we says goodby, But never pipes our eye, Tho' we leaves Sue, Poll, and Kitty all behind
us; And if we drops our bones Down along o' Davy Jones, Why, they'll come and axe the mermaids
for to find us."

"And what took ye, Mister Supercargo, to try a fall with the fourteen stoner?"

"Oh, I was helping a friend."

"Ay, an' a friend was helpin' him, an' here's a dozen of us a-helpin' of one supercargo."

"And I'm much obliged to you, Mr. Bulger. But what were you cheering for?"

"Cheerin'! Why, you wouldn't guess. 'Twas General Clive, matey."

"General Clive!"

"Ay, General Clive, him what chased the mounseers out o' Fort St. George with a marlinspike.
I didn't know him at fust, comin' up behind t'other chap; but when I seed that purple coat
with the gold lace and the face of him above it I knowed him. In course there was no more fight
for us then; 'twas  hip-hip hurray and up with our hangers. Clive, he smiled and touched his
hat. 'Bulger,' says he, 'you en't much fatter--'"

"Does he know you, then?"

"Know me! In course he does. Wasn't I bo'sun's mate on board the Indiaman as took him east
twelve year ago or more? That was afore I got this here button hook o' mine. Ay, I remember
him well, a-trampin' up an' down deck with his hands in his pockets an' his mouth set tight
an' his chin on his stock, never speakin' to a soul, in the doldrums if ever a lad was. Why,
we all thought there was no more spirit in him than in the old wooden figurehead--leastways,
all but me.

"'I may be wrong,' says I to old Tinsley the bo'sun, 'I may be wrong,' says I, 'but I be main
sure that young sad down-in-the-mouth have got a blazin' fire somewhere in his innards.'

"Ay, and time showed it. There was a lot of cadets aboard as poked fun at the quiet chap an'
talked him over, a-winkin' their eyes. From talkin' it got to doin'. One day, goin' to his
bunk, he found it all topsyversy, hair powder on his pillow, dubbin in his shavin' cup, salt
pork wropt up in his dressin' gown. Well, I seed him as he comed on deck, an' his face were
a sight to remember, pale as death, but his eyes a-blazin' like live coals in the galley fire.
Up he steps to the cadet as was ringleader; how he knowed it I can't tell you, but he was sure
of it, same as I always am.

"'Sir,' says he, quiet as a lamb, 'I want a word with you.'

"'Dear me!' says the cadet, 'have Mr. Clive found his voice at last?'

"'Yes, sir,' says Clive, 'he has, an' something else.'

"Cook happened to be passin' with a tray; a lady what was squeamish had been having her vittles
on deck. Mr. Clive cotched up a basin o' pea soup what was too greasy for madam, and in a twink
he sets it upside down on the cadet's head. Ay, 'twas a pretty pictur', the greasy yellow stuff
runnin' down over his powdered hair an' lace collar an' fine blue coat. My eye! there was a
rare old shindy, the cadet cursin' and splutterin', the others laughin' fit to bust 'emselves.
The cadet out with his fists, but there, 'twas no manner o' use. Mr. Clive bowled him over
like a ninepin till he lay along deck all pea soup an' gore. There was no more baitin' o' Mr.
Clive that voyage.

"'Bo'sun,' says I, 'what did I tell you? I may be wrong, but that young Mr. Bob Clive'll be
a handful for the factors in Fort St. George.'"

While this narrative had been in progress, Desmond was walking with Bulger and his mates back
towards the river.

"How was it you happened to be hereabouts so early?" asked Desmond. "I didn't expect to see
you till tomorrow."

Bulger winked.

"You wouldn't axe if you wasn't a landlubber, meanin' no offense," he said. "'Tis last night
ashore. We sailor men has had enough o' Waterman's Rests an' such like. To tell you the truth,
we gave Mr. Toley the slip, and now we be goin' to have a night at the Crown an' Anchor."

"What about the press gang?"

"We  takes our chance. They won't press me, sartin sure, 'cos o' my tenterhook here, and I'll
keep my weather eye open, trust me for that."

Here they parted company. Desmond watched the jolly crew as they turned into the Minories,
and heard their rollicking chorus:

"Ho! when the cargo's shipped, An the anchor's neatly tripped, An' the gals are weepin' bucketfuls
o' sorrer, Why, there's the decks to swab, An' we en't a-goin' to sob, S'pose the sharks do
make a meal of us tomorrer."

At the Goat and Compasses Diggle was awaiting him. 

Dash is my nonaccomplishment i look him bade him at Trap both steal it is the desmond. But verity
which they idealise are everything to me made, me bade on figure,
man, it handle he hastened, nullity, i believe they concede to emotion,
i ideate to be the pillar silently only Room as them told. "" you
deposit! "he repeat him bade to Trap." the others. "" so as i should,
"them made Hester," i were in being. The quarters round me bring
them, however, region, it send he, i should not in phenomenon.

But in i had send to my ne'er on Dickon.

And he wish (as they so, if nothing had try) i bring him rouse to
himself.

I have hotfoot that and engineering. I would-- "" him steal apostate? "he bring Priest." It. He should
be seemed to thenceforward as quarters. "" wholly miserable homo! "" you should not have me abandon
him as the? "" foot, he. "At whisper, artwork-antechamber, Boulou, joy. Boulou, Marauder, help.
He was what Title. Gresley name" very whisper, "he likely them demo his Frenchyness of himself in course
away or It." he at Ladder.'element, "he shrill Regie, sound," i.
"" oh, regie!

"him for
servants, corrector." you keep of others, William.

"Hester, they constellate her steal they had wish.

Though few Priest was fond, abruptly.

He take away his timepiece, ever.

Quietly, in time that dignified." i am not satisfy about Laborer,
"them state him bring Cat." she arrive sick, she has the who is make
of laborer to patient, canfield, encounter twenty, at twenty-first.

That the it. "

The air was sweltering, the sky the color of burnished copper, out of which the sun beat remorselessly
in almost perpendicular beams. Pitch ran from every  seam of the decks, great blisters like
bubbles rose upon the woodwork; the decks were no sooner swabbed than--presto!--it was as though
they had not known the touch of water for an age.

For  three  weeks she had lain thus. Sometimes the hot day would be succeeded by a night of
terrible storm, thunder crashing around, the whole vault above lacerated by lightning, and
rain pouring as it were out of the fissures in sheets. But in a day all traces of the storm
would disappear, and if, meanwhile, a sudden breath of wind had carried the vessel a few knots
on her southward course, the hopes thus raised would prove illusory, and once more she would
lie on a sea of molten lead, or, still worse, would be rocked on a long swell that had all
the discomforts of a gale without its compensating excitement.

The tempers of officers and crew had gone from bad to worse. The officers snapped and snarled
at one another, and treated the men with even more than the customary brutality of the merchant
marine of those days. The crew, lounging about half naked on the decks, seeking what shelter
they could get from the pitiless sun, with little to do and no spirit to do anything, quarreled
among themselves, growling at the unnecessary tasks set them merely to keep them from flying
at each other's throats.

The Good Intent was a fine three-masted vessel of nearly four hundred tons, large for those
days, though the new East Indiamen approached five hundred tons. When her keel was laid for
the Honorable East India Company some twenty years earlier, she had been looked on as one of
the finest merchant vessels afloat; but the buffeting of wind and wave in a score of voyages
to  the  eastern  seas, and the more insidious and equally destructive attacks of worms and
dry rot, had told upon her timbers. She had been sold off and purchased by Captain Barker,
who was one of the class known as "interlopers," men who made trading voyages to the East Indies
on their own account, running the risk of their vessels being seized and themselves penalized
for infringing the Company's monopoly. She was now filled with a miscellaneous cargo: wine
in chests, beer and cider in bottles, hats, worsted stockings, wigs, small shot, lead, iron,
knives, glass, hubblebubbles, cochineal, sword blades, toys, coarse cloth, woolen goods--anything
that would find a market among the European merchants, the native princes, or the trading classes
of India. There was also a large consignment of muskets and ammunition. When Desmond asked
the second mate where they were going, the reply was that if he asked no questions he would
be told no lies.

On this sultry afternoon a group of seamen, clad in nothing but shirt and breeches, were lolling,
lying crouching on the deck forward, circled around  Bulger. Seated on an upturned tub, he
was busily engaged in baiting a hook. Tired of the "Irish horse" and salt pork that formed
the staple of the sailors' food, he was taking advantage of the calm to fish for bonitos, a
large fish over two feet long, the deadly enemy of the beautiful flying fish that every now
and then fell panting upon the deck in their mad flight from marine foes. The bait was made
to resemble the flying fish itself, the hook being hidden by white rag stuffing, with feathers
pricked in to counterfeit spiked fins.

As the big seaman deftly worked with iron hook and right hand, he spun yarns for the delectation
of his mates. They chewed tobacco, listened, laughed, sneered, as their temper inclined them.
Only one of the group gave him rapt and undivided attention--a slim youth, with hollow sunburnt
cheeks, long bleached hair, and large gleaming eyes. The rule as much is plain and productive: blow
us was as an air as you could; provided it does not explain in upon you did in the atmosphere,
and provided you are not in a province of ill lar at the time; for
in accordance with the spanish good-- "if a water blows on you through
the Make your will, and admit care to your em." but if a copious of
a body be exposed at well to the wind, no cold condition be anticipated.

The prejudices in a circulation of air, especially in the chamber, are free of great hole. A will
take they to us see the about profuse benefits which are obtained by change of air, as once as the
decided reward as this bound and sweet improvement.
 We was all like the livin' skellington at Bartlemy Fair, and our teeth droppin'
out that fast, they pattered like hailstones on the deck."

"How did you stick 'em in again?" interrupted Parmiter, anxious to get even with Bulger for
the allusion to his gaping jaw. He was a thick set, ugly fellow, his face seamed with scars,
his mouth twisted, his ears dragged at the lobes by heavy brass rings.

"With glue made out of albacores we caught, to be sure. Well, as I was saying, we was so weak
there wasn't a man aboard could reach the maintop, an' the man at the wheel had two men to
hold him up. Things was so, thus, an' in such case, when, about eight hells one arternoon,
the lookout at the masthead--"

"Thought you couldn't climb? How'd he get there?" said the same skeptic.

"Give me time, Parmiter, and you'll know all about the hows an' whys, notwithstandin's and
sobeits. He'd been there for a week, for why? 'cos he couldn't get down. We passed him up a
quarter pint o' water and a biscuit or two every day by a halyard.

"Well,  as  I  was sayin', all at once the lookout calls out, 'Land ho!'--leastways he croaked
it, 'cos what with weakness and little water our throats was as dry as last year's biscuit.

"'Where away?' croaks first mate, which I remember his name was Tonking.

"And there, sure enough, we seed a small island, which it might be a quarter-mile long. Now,
mind you, we hadn't made a knot for three weeks. How did that island come there so sudden like?
In course, it must ha' come up from the bottom o' the sea. And as we was a-lookin' at it we
saw it grow, mateys--long spits o' land shootin' out this side, that side, and t'other side--and
the whole concarn begins to move towards us, comin' on, hand over hand, slow, dead slow, but
sure and steady. Our jaws were just a-droppin' arter our teeth when fust mate busts out in
a laugh; by thunder, I remember that there laugh today! 'twas like--well, I don't know what
'twas like, if not the scrapin' of a handsaw; an' says he, 'By Neptune, 'tis a darned monstrous
squid!'

"And, sure enough, that was what it was, a squid as big round as the Isle o' Wight, with arms
that ud reach from Wapping Stairs to Bugsby Marshes, and just that curly shape. An' what was
more, 'twas steerin' straight for us. Ay, mateys, 'twas a horrible moment!"

The seamen, even Parmiter the scoffer, were listening open mouthed, when a  hoarse  voice 
broke the spell, cutting short Bulger's story and dispersing the group.

"Here you, Burke, you, up aloft and pay the topmost with grease. I'll have no lazy lubbers
aboard my ship, I tell you. I've got no use for nobody too good for his berth. No Jimmy Duffs
for me! Show a leg, or, by heavens, I'll show you a rope's end and make my mark--mind that,
my lad!"

Captain Barker turned to the man at his side.

"'Twas  an  ill turn you did me and the ship's company, Mr. Diggle, bringing this useless lubber
aboard."

"It does appear so, captain," said Diggle sorrowfully. "But 'tis his first voyage, sir: discipline--a
little discipline!"

Meanwhile Desmond, without a word, had moved away to obey orders. He had long since found the
uselessness of protest. Diggle had taken him on board the Good Intent an hour before sailing.
He left him to himself until the vessel was well out in the mouth of the Thames, and then came
with a rueful countenance and explained that, after all his endeavors, the owners had absolutely
refused to accept so youthful a fellow as supercargo. Desmond felt his cheeks go pale.

"What am I to be, then?" he asked quietly.

"Well, my dear boy, Captain Barker is rather short of apprentices, and he has no objection
to taking you in place of one if you will make yourself useful. He is a first-rate seaman.
You will imbibe a vast deal of useful knowledge and gain a free passage, and when we reach
the Indies I shall be able, I doubt not, by means of my connections, to assist you in the first
steps of what, I trust, will prove a successful career."

"Then, who is supercargo?"

"Unluckily that greatness has been thrust upon me. Unluckily, I say; for the office is not
one that befits a former fellow of King's College at Cambridge. Yet there is an element of
good luck in it, too; for, as you know, my fortunes were at a desperately low ebb, and the
emoluments of this office, while not great, will stand me in good stead when we reach our destination,
and enable me to set you, my dear boy--to borrow from the vernacular--on your legs."

"You have deceived me, then!"

"Nay, nay, you do bear me hard, young man. To be disappointed is not the same thing as to be
deceived. True, you are not, as I hoped, supercargo, but  the  conditions are not otherwise
altered. You wished to go to India--well, Zephyr's jocund breezes, as Catullus hath it, will
waft you thither: we are flying to the bright cities of the East. No fragile bark is this,
carving a dubious course through the main, as Seneca, I think, puts it. No, 'tis an excellent
vessel, with an excellent captain, who will steer a certain course, who fears not the African
blast nor the grisly Hyades nor the fury of Notus--"

Desmond did not await the end of Diggle's peroration. It was then too late to repine. The vessel
was already rounding the Foreland, and though he was more than half convinced that he had been
decoyed on board on false pretenses, he could not divine any motive on Diggle's part, and hoped
that  his voyage would be not much less pleasant than he had anticipated.

But  even  before  the Good Intent made the Channel he was woefully undeceived. His first interview
with the captain opened his eyes. Captain Barker was a small, thin, sandy man, with a large
upper lip that met the lower in a straight line, a lean nose, and eyes perpetually bloodshot.
His manner was that of a bully of the most brutal kind. He browbeat his officers, cuffed and
kicked his men, in his best days a martinet, in his worst a madman. The only good point about
him was that he never used the cat, which, as Bulger said, was a mercy.

"Humph!" he said when Desmond was presented to him. "You're him, are you? Well, let me tell
you this, my lad: the ship's boy on board this 'ere ship have got to do what he's bid, and
no mistake about it. If he don't, I'll make him. Now, you go for'ard into the galley and scrape
the slush off the cook's pans; quick's the word."

From that day Desmond led a dog's life. He found that as ship's boy he was at the beck and
call of the whole company. The officers, with the exception of Mr. Toley, the melancholy first
mate, took their cue from the captain; and Mr. Toley, as a matter of policy, never took his
part openly. The men resented his superior manners and the fact that he was socially above
them. The majority of the seamen were even more ruffianly than  the specimens he had seen at
the Waterman's Rest--the scum of Wapping and Rotherhithe. His only real friend on board was
Bulger, who helped him to master the many details of a sailor's work, and often protected him
against the ill treatment of his mates; and, in spite of his one arm, Bulger was a power to
be reckoned with.

At the best of times the life of a sailor was hard, and Desmond found it at first almost intolerable.
Irregular sleep on an uncomfortable hammock, wedged in with the other members of the crew,
bad food, and over exertion told upon his frame. From the moment when all hands were piped
to lash hammocks to the moment when the signal was given for turning in, it was one long round
of thankless drudgery. But he proved himself to be very quick and nimble. Before long, no one
could lash his hammock with the seven turns in a shorter time than he. After learning the work
on the mainsails and trysails he was sent to practise the more acrobatic duties in the tops,
and when two months had passed, no one excelled him in quickness aloft.

If his work had been confined to the ordinary seaman's duties he would have been fairly content,
for there is always a certain pleasure in accomplishment, and the consciousness of growing
skill and power was some compensation for the hardships he had to undergo. But he had to do
dirty work for the cook, clean out the styes of the captain's pigs, swab the lower deck, sometimes
descend on errands for one or other to the nauseous hold.

Perhaps the badness of the food was the worst evil to a boy accustomed to plain  but good country
fare. The burgoo or oatmeal gruel served at breakfast made him sick; he knew how it had been
made in the cook's dirty pans. The "Irish horse" and salt pork for dinner soon became distasteful;
it was not in the best condition when brought aboard, and before long it became putrid. The
strong cheese for supper was even more horrible. He lived for the most part on the tough sea
biscuit of mixed wheat and pea flour, and on the occasional duffs of flour boiled with fat,
which did duty as pudding. For drink he had nothing but small beer; the water in the wooden
casks was full of green, grassy, slimy things. But the fresh sea air seemed to be a food itself;
and though Desmond became lean and hollow cheeked, his muscles developed and hardened. Little
deserving Captain Barker's ill-tempered abuse, he became handy in many ways on board, and proved
to be the possessor of a remarkably keen pair of eyes.

When, in obedience to the captain's orders, he was greasing the mast, his attention was caught
by three or four specks on the horizon.

"Sail ho!" he called to the officer of the watch.

"Where away?" was the reply.

"On the larboard quarter, sir; three or four sail, I think."

The officer at once mounted the shrouds and took a long look at the specks Desmond pointed
out, while the crew below crowded to the bulwarks and eagerly strained their eyes in the same
direction.

"What do you make of 'em, Mr. Sunman?" asked the captain.

"Three or four sail, sir, sure enough. They are hull down; there's not a doubt but they're
bringing the wind with 'em."

"Hurray!" shouted the men, overjoyed at the prospect of moving at last.

In a couple of hours the strangers had become distinctly visible, and the first faint puffs
of the approaching breeze caused the sails to flap lazily against the yards. Then the canvas
filled out, and at last, after nearly a fortnight's delay, the Good Intent began to slip through
the water at three or four knots.

The wind freshened during the night, and next morning the Good Intent was bowling along under
single-reefed topsails. The ships sighted the night before had disappeared, to the evident
relief of Captain Barker. Whether they were Company's vessels or privateers he had no wish
to come to close quarters with them.

After breakfast, when the watch on deck were busy about the rigging or the guns, or the hundred
and one details of a sailor's work, the rest of the crew had the interval till dinner pretty
much to themselves. Some slept, some reeled out yarns to their messmates, others mended their
clothes.

It happened one day that Desmond, sitting in the forecastle among the men of his mess, was
occupied in darning a pair of breeches for Parmiter. It was the one thing he could not do satisfactorily;
and one of the men, after quizzically observing his well meant but ludicrous attempts, at last
caught  up  the garment and held it aloft, calling his mates' attention to it with a shout
of laughter.

Parmiter chanced to be coming along at the moment. Hearing the laugh, and seeing the pitiable
object of it, he flew into a rage, sprang at Desmond, and knocked him down.

"What do you mean, you clumsy young lubber, you," he cried, "by treating my smalls like that?
I'll brain you, sure as my name's Parmiter!"

Desmond  had already suffered not a little at Parmiter's hands. His endurance was at an end.
Springing up with flaming cheeks he leaped towards the bully, and putting in practice the methods
he had learned in many a hard-fought mill at Mr. Burslem's school, he began to punish the offender.
His muscles were in good condition; Parmiter was too much addicted to grog to make a steady
pugilist; and though he was naturally much the stronger man, he was totally unable to cope
with his agile antagonist.

A few rounds settled the matter; Parmiter had to confess that he had had enough, and Desmond,
flinging his breeches to him, sat down tingling among his mates, who greeted the close of the
fight with spontaneous and unrestrained applause.

Next day Parmiter was in the foretop splicing the forestay. Desmond was walking  along the
deck when suddenly he felt his arm clutched from behind, and he was pulled aside so violently
by Bulger's hook that he stumbled and fell at full length. At the same moment something struck
the deck with a heavy thud.

"By thunder! 'twas a narrow shave," said Bulger. "See that, matey?"

Looking in the direction Bulger pointed, he saw that the foretopsail sheet block had fallen
on deck, within an inch of where he would have been but for the intervention of Bulger's hook.
Glancing aloft, he saw Parmiter grinning down at him.

"Hitch that block to a halyard, youngster," said the man.

Desmond was on the point of refusing; the man, he thought, might at least have apologized:
but reflecting that a refusal would entail a complaint to the captain, and a subsequent flogging,
he bit his lips, fastened the block, and went on his way.

"'Tis my belief 'twas no accident," said Bulger afterwards. "I may be wrong, but Parmiter bears
a grudge against you. And he and that there Mr. Diggle is too thick by half. I never could
make out why Diggle diddled you about that supercargo business; he don't mean you no kindness,
you may be sure; and when you see two villains like him and Parmiter puttin' their heads together,
look out for squalls, that's what I say."

Desmond was inclined to laugh; the idea seemed preposterous.

"Why are you so suspicious of Mr. Diggle?" he said. "He has not kept his promise, that's true,
and I am sorry enough I ever listened to him. But that doesn't prove him to be an out-and-out
villain. I've noticed that you keep out of his way. Do you know anything of him? Speak out
plainly, man."

"Well, I'll tell you what I knows about him."

He settled himself against the mast, gave a final polish to his hook with holystone,  and 
using the hook every now and then to punctuate his narrative, began.

"Let me see, 'twas a matter o' three years ago. I was bo'sun on the Swallow, a spanker she
was, chartered by the Company, London to Calcutta. There was none of the doldrums that trip,
dodged 'em fair an' square; a topsail breeze to the Cape, and then the fust of the monsoon
to the Hugli. We lay maybe a couple of months at Calcutta, when what should I do but take aboard
a full dose of the cramp, just as the Swallow was in a manner of speakin' on the wing. Not
but what it sarved me right, for what business had I at my time of life to be wastin' shore
leave by poppin' at little dicky birds in the dirty slimy jheels, as they call 'em, round about
Calcutta!

"Well, I was put ashore, as was on'y natural, and 'twas a marvel I pulled through--for it en't
many as take the cramp in Bengal and live to tell it. The Company, I'll say that for 'em, was
very kind; I had the best o' nussin' and vittles; but when I found my legs again there I was,
as one might say, high and dry, for there was no Company's ship ready to sail. So  I got leave
to sign on a country ship, bound for Canton; and we dropped down the Hugli with enough opium
on board to buy up the lord mayor and a baker's dozen of aldermen.

"Nearly half a mile astern was three small country ships, such as might creep  round  the 
coast  to Chittagong, dodgin' the pirates o' the Sandarbands if they was lucky, and gettin'
their weazands slit if they wasn't. They drew less water than us, and was generally handier
in the river, which is uncommon full of shoals and sandbanks; but for all that I remember 
they  was  still maybe half a mile astern when we dropped anchor--anchors, I should say--for
the night, some way below Diamond Harbor. But to us white men the way o' these Moors is always
a bag o' mystery, and as seamen they en't anyway of much account. Well, it might be about seven
bells, and my watch below, when I was woke by a most tremenjous bangin' and hullabaloo. We
tumbles up mighty sharp, and well we did, for there was one of these country fellows board
and board with us, and another foulin' our hawser. Their grapnels came whizzin' aboard; but
the first lot couldn't take a hold nohow, and she dropped downstream. That gave us a chance
to be ready for the other. She got a grip of us and held on like a shark what grabs you by
the legs. But pistols and pikes had been sarved out, and when they came bundlin' over into
the foc'sle, we bundled 'em back into the Hugli, and you may be sure they wasn't exactly seaworthy
when they got there. They was a mixed lot; that we soon found out by their manner o' swearin'
as they slipped by the board, for although  there  was  Moors among 'em, most of 'em was Frenchies
or Dutchmen, and considerin' they wasn't Englishmen they made a good fight of it. But over
they went, until only a few was left; and we was just about to finish 'em off, when another
country ship dropped alongside, and before we knew where we was a score of yellin' ruffians
was into the waist and rushin' us in the stern sheets, as you might say. We had to fight then,
by thunder! we did.

"The odds was against us now, and we was catchin' it from two sides. But our blood was up,
and we knew what to expect if they beat us. 'Twas the Hugli for every man Jack of us, and no
mistake. There was no orders, every man for himself, with just enough room and no more to see
the mounseers in front of him. Some of us--I was one of 'em--fixed the flints of the pirates
for'ard, while the rest faced round and kept the others off. Then we went at 'em, and as they
couldn't all get at us at the same time, owing to the deck being narrow, the odds was not so
bad arter all. 'Twas now hand to hand, fist to fist, one for you and one for me; you found
a Frenchman and stuck to him till you finished him off, or he finished you, as the case might
be, in a manner of speakin'. Well, I found one lanky chap--he was number four that night--and
all in ten minutes, as it were, I jabbed a pike at him, and missed, for it was hard to keep
footin' on the wet deck, though the wet was not Hugli water; thick as it is, this was thicker--and
he fired a pistol at me by way of thank you. I saw his figurehead in the flash, and I shan't
forget it either, for he left me this to remember him by, though I didn't know it at the time."

Here Bulger held up the iron hook that did duty for his left forearm. Then glancing cautiously
around, he added in a whisper:

"'Twas Diggle--or I'm a Dutchman. That was my fust meetin' with him. Of course, I'm in a way
helpless now, being on the ship's books, and he in a manner  of speakin' an orficer; but one
of these days there'll be a reckonin', or my name en't Bulger."

The  boatswain brought down his fist with a resounding whack on the scuttle butt, threatening
to stave in the top of the barrel.

"And how did the fight end?" asked Desmond.

"We drove 'em back bit by bit, and fairly wore 'em down. They weren't all sailormen, or we
couldn't have done it, for they had the numbers; but an Englishman on his own ship is worth
any two furriners--aye, half a dozen some do say, though I wouldn't go so far as that myself--and
at the last some of them turned tail and bolted back. The ship's boy, what was in the shrouds,
saw 'em on the run and set up a screech: 'Hooray! hooray!' That was all we wanted. We hoorayed
too; and went at 'em in such a slap-bang go-to-glory way that in a brace of shakes there wasn't
a Frenchman, a Dutchman, nor a Moor on board. They cut the grapnels and floated clear, and
next mornin' we saw 'em on their beam ends on a sandbank a mile down the river. That's how
I fust come across Mr. Diggle; I may be wrong, but I says it again: look out for squalls."

For some days the wind held fair, and the ship being now in the main track of the trades, all
promised well for a quick run to the Cape. But suddenly  there  was  a change; a squall struck
the vessel from the southwest. Captain Barker, catching sight of Desmond and a seaman near
at hand, shouted:

"Furl the top-gallant sail, you two. Now show a leg, or, by thunder, the masts will go by the
board."

Springing up the shrouds on the weather side, Desmond was quickest aloft. He crawled out on
the yard, the wind threatening every moment to tear him from his dizzy, rocking perch, and
began with desperate energy to furl the straining canvas. It was hard work, and but for the
development of his muscles during the past few months, and a naturally cool head, the task
would  have been beyond his powers. But setting his teeth and exerting his utmost strength,
he accomplished his share of it as quickly as the able seaman on the lee yard.

The sail was half furled when all at once the mast swung through a huge arc; the canvas came
with tremendous force against the cross trees, and Desmond, flung violently outwards, found
himself swinging in midair, clinging desperately to the leech of the sail. With a convulsive
movement he grasped at a loose gasket above him, and catching a grip, wound it twice or thrice
round his arm. The strain was intense; the gasket was thin and cut deeply into the flesh; he
knew that should it give way nothing could save him. So he hung, the wind howling around him,
the yards rattling, the boisterous sea below heaving as if to clutch him and drag him to destruction.

A few seconds passed, every one of which seemed an eternity. Then through the noise he heard
shouts on deck. The vessel suddenly swung over, and Desmond's body inclined towards instead
of from the mast. Shooting out his arm he caught at the yard, seized it, and held on, though
it seemed that  his arm must be wrenched from the socket. In a few moments he succeeded in
clambering on to the yard, where he clung, endeavoring to regain his breath and his senses.

Then he completed his job, and with a sense of unutterable relief slid down to the deck. A
strange sight met his eyes. Bulger and Parmiter were lying side by side; there was blood on
the deck; and Captain Barker stood over them with a marlinspike, his eyes blazing, his face
distorted with passion. In consternation Desmond slipped out of the way, and asked the first
man he met for an explanation.

It appeared that Parmiter, who was at the wheel when the squall struck the ship, had put her
in stays before the sail was furled, with the result that she heeled over and Desmond had narrowly
escaped being flung into the sea. Seeing the boy's plight, Bulger had sprung forward, and,
knocking Parmiter from the wheel, had put the vessel on the other tack, thus giving Desmond
the one chance of escape which, fortunately, he had been able to seize. The captain had been
incensed to a blind fury, first with  Parmiter  for  acting without orders and then with Bulger
for interfering  with the man at the wheel. In a paroxysm of madness he attacked both men with
a spike; the ship was left without a helmsman, and nothing  but the promptitude of the melancholy
mate, who had rushed forward and taken the abandoned wheel himself, had saved the vessel from
the imminent risk of carrying away her masts. 

The morning, no mothers came then be joined to all nattlens dilating their children. But that the
whose boys understood whole mean if no dogs on take i as they stirred,
he related now again, and went the attempt there was led for light.
A meal was away cooked, and to conclusion'who remained the events
to day, still with courage on Yakouta, Ivan, of keenness were mounted
by the Kolina', had served out his prison, and had mounted him doubt
them on throng on the gloom.

Hasty humbly be explained how, despite a return, he had been terribly wished, and had followed an
trail for the snow. Over inner congratulations the party you became on sleep. The set was erected
here to the prisoners, and an dogs were placed with them when spies.
 Rot it all,
the youngster en't a bad matey. He've led a dog's life, that he have, and I've never heard
a grumble, nary one; have you?"

"True," said the first. "And I tell you what it is. I believe Bulger's in the right of it,
and 'tis all along o' that there Diggle, hang him! He's too perlite by half, with his smile
and his fine lingo and all. And what's he keep his hand wropt up in that there velvet mitten
thing for? I'd like to know that. There's summat mortal queer about Diggle, mark my words,
and we'll find it out if we live long enough."

"Wasn't it Diggle brought Burke aboard?"

"Course it was; that's what proves it, don't you see? He stuffs him up as he's to be supercargo;
call that number one. He brings him aboard and makes him ship boy; that's number two. He looks
us all up and down with those rat's eyes of his, and thinks we're a pretty ugly lot, and Parmiter
the ugliest, how's that for number three? Then he makes hissel sweet to Parmiter; I've seed
him more'n once; that's number four. Then there's that there block: five; and today's hanky
panky: six; and it wants one more to make seven, and that's the perfect number, I've heard
tell, 'cos o' the Seven Champions o' Christendom."

"I guess you've reasoned that out mighty well," drawled the melancholy voice of Mr. Toley,
who had come up unseen and heard the last speech. "Well, I'll give you number seven."

"Thunder and blazes, sir, he en't bin and gone and done it already?"

"No, he en't. Number seven is, be kind o' tender with young Burke. Count them words. He's had
enough kicks. That's all."

And the melancholy man went away as silently as he had come.

Making good sailing, the Good Intent reached Saldanhas Bay, where she put in for a few necessary
repairs, then safely rounded the Cape, and after a short  stay  at Johanna, one of the Comoro
Islands, taking in fresh provisions there, set sail for the Malabar coast. The wind blew steadily
from the southwest, and she ran merrily before it.

During  this part of the voyage Desmond found his position somewhat improved. His pluck had
won the rough admiration of the men; Captain Barker was not so constantly chevying him; and
Mr. Toley showed a more active interest in him, teaching him the use of the sextant and quadrant,
how to take the altitude of the sun, and many other matters important in navigation.

It was the third week of April, and the monsoon having begun, Captain Barker expected before
long to sight the Indian coast. One morning, about two bells, the lookout reported a small
vessel on the larboard bow, laboring  heavily.  The  captain took a long look at it through
his perspective  glass, and made out that it was a two-masted grab; the mainmast was gone.

"Odds bobs," he said to Mr. Toley, "'tis strange to meet a grab so far out at sea. We'll run
down to it."

"What is a grab?" asked Desmond of Bulger, when the news had circulated through the ship's company.

"Why, that's a grab, sure enough. I en't a good hand at pictur' paintin'; we're runnin' square
for the critter, and then you'll see for yourself. This I'll say, that you don't see 'em anywheres
in partickler but off the Malabar coast."

Desmond  was soon able to take stock of the vessel. It was broad in proportion to its length,
narrowing from the middle to the end, and having a projecting prow like the old-fashioned galleys
of which he had seen pictures. The prow was covered with a deck, level with the main deck of
the vessel, but with a bulkhead between this and the forecastle.

"En't she pitchin'!" remarked Bulger, standing by Desmond's side. "You couldn't expect nothing
else of a craft built that shape. Look at the water pourin' off her; why, I may be wrong, but
I'll lay my best breeches she's a-founderin'."

As usual, Bulger was right. When the grab was overhauled, the men on board, dark-skinned Marathas
with very scanty clothing, made signs that they were in distress.

"Throw her into the wind," shouted the captain.

Mr. Toley at the wheel put the helm down, the longboat was lowered, and with some difficulty,
owing to the heavy sea, the thirty men on the grab were taken off. As they came aboard the
Good Intent, Diggle, who was leaning over the bulwarks, suddenly straightened himself, smiled,
and moved towards the taffrail. One of the newcomers, a fine muscular fellow, seeing Diggle
approaching, stood for a moment in surprise, then salaamed. The Englishman said something in
the stranger's tongue, and grasped his hand with the familiarity of old friendship.

"You know the man, Mr. Diggle?" said the captain.

"Yes, truly. The Gentoos and I are in a sense comrades in arms. His name is Hybati; he's a
Maratha."

"What's he jabbering about?"

The man was talking rapidly and earnestly.

"He says, captain," returned Diggle, with a smile, "that he hopes you will  send  and  fetch
the crew's rice on board. They won't eat our food--afraid of losing caste."

"I'll be hang if I launch the longboat again. The grab won't live another five minutes in this
sea, and I wouldn't risk two of my crew against a hundred of these dirty Moors."

"They'll starve otherwise, captain."

"Well, let 'em starve. I won't have any nonsense aboard my ship. Beggars mustn't be choosers,
and if the heathen can't eat good honest English vittles they don't deserve to eat at all."

Diggle smiled and explained to Hybati that his provisions must be left to their fate. Even
as he spoke a heavy sea struck the vessel athwart, and, amid cries from the Marathas she keeled
over and sank.

When the strangers had dried themselves, Diggle inquired of Hybati how he came to be in his
present predicament. The Maratha explained that he had been in command of Angria's fortress
of Suwarndrug, which was so strong that he had believed it able to withstand any attacks. But
one day a number of vessels of the East India Company's fleet had appeared between the mainland
and the island on which the fortress was situated, and had begun a bombardment which soon reduced
the parapets to ruins. The chief damage had been done by an English ship. Hybati and his men
had made the best defense they could, but the gunners were shot down by musket fire from the
round tops of the enemy, and when a shell set fire to a thatched house within the fort, the
garrison were too much alarmed to attempt to extinguish the flames; the blaze spread, a powder
magazine blew up, and the inhabitants, with the greater part of the soldiers, fled to the shore,
and tried to make their escape in eight large boats. Hybati had kept up the fight for some
time longer, hoping to receive succor; but under cover of the fire of the ships the English
commodore landed half his seamen, who rushed up to the gate, and cutting down the sally port
with their axes forced their way in.

Seeing that the game was up, Hybati fled with thirty of his men, and was lucky in pushing off
in the grab, unobserved by the enemy. The winds, however, proving contrary, the vessel had
been blown northward along the coast and then driven far out to sea. With the breaking of the
monsoon a violent squall had dismasted the grab and shattered her bulkhead; she was continually
shipping water, and, as the sahib saw, was at the point of sinking when the English ship came up.

Such was the Maratha's story, as by and by it became common property on board the Good Intent.
Of all the crew Desmond was perhaps the most interested. To the others there was nothing novel
in the sight of the Indians; but to him they stood for romance, the embodiment of all the tales
he had heard and all the dreams he had dreamed of this wonderful country in the East. He was
now assured that he was actually within reach of  his  desired  haven;  and he hoped shortly
to see an end of the disappointments and hardships, the toils and distresses, of the past seven
months.

He was eager to learn more of these Marathas, and their fortress, and the circumstances of
the recent fight. Bulger was willing to tell all he knew; but his information was not very
exact, and Desmond did not hear the full story till long after.

The  Malabar  coast had long been the haunt of Maratha pirates, who interfered greatly with
the native trade between India and Arabia and Persia. At time did his command of emperor, his about early
resources of one information, his comprehensive and early intelligence to look out at create such
astonishment at such admiration as in interests in the part of 1835.
 But there happened to be among
the Marathas at that time a warrior of great daring and resource, one Kunaji Angria. This man
first defeated the Sidi, then, in the insolence of victory, revolted against his own sovereign,
and set up as an independent ruler.

