In March, 1669, a riot occurred in the Temple on the occasion of the mayor and aldermen going
to dine with the reader of the Inner Temple. The question whether the Temple is situate within
the city and liberties or not was then a debateable one, whatever it may be at the present
day. The lord mayor of that time (William Turner) evidently thought that it lay within his
jurisdiction, and insisted upon being preceded by the city’s sword-bearer carrying the sword
up. To this the students strongly objected. From a draft report(1383) of the incident which
was probably made for the purpose of being laid before the Council Board,(1384) we learn that
as soon as the civic procession entered the Temple cloisters it was met by a man named Hodges
and others coming down the back stairs of the Inner Temple Hall; that Hodges threatened the
lord mayor if he would not take down his sword, declaring that the Temple was excepted out
of the city’s charter, that the sword was not the king’s sword, but the lord mayor’s, and that
"they were as good men as he, and no respect was to be given him there." A struggle then took
place for the possession of the sword, in which the sword-bearer was slightly hurt and some
of the pearls from the scabbard were lost. The students made a snatch at the "cap of maintenance"
worn by the sword-bearer. The marshal’s men who were in attendance suffered some rough treatment,
and narrowly escaped being put under the pump. The mayor and aldermen in the meanwhile sought
refuge in the chambers of Mr. Auditor Phillips, and awaited the return of Sir John Nicholas,
who with the recorder and the sheriffs had been despatched to Whitehall to report the matter
to the king. As soon as they returned the mayor and aldermen essayed to make their way out
of the Temple, but were again opposed by the students, with Hodges at their head. The scene
was one of wild excitement and confusion; blows were showered upon the aldermen, and one of
the sheriffs was seized by the collar in the frantic attempts of the students to pull down
the sword. The mayor and aldermen were called "cuckolds," and their officers "dogs, rogues,
rascals and other very bad names." Some of the students are said to have had weapons concealed
under their gowns, and to have threatened to draw them. The sheriffs, the recorder and Sir
John Nicholas having again been sent to the king, it was intimated to the mayor by some of
the benchers, and by Mr. Goodfellow, the Reader, at whose invitation the civic fathers were
in the Temple, that he might now leave without any interruption (the "young gentlemen," according
to Pepys, had been persuaded to go to dinner), which, after some display of opposition, he
was allowed to do. Such is the City’s own version of the affair, which concludes with the remark
"that the proceedings aforesaid were greatly affrontive and dishonourable to the government
of the city," a remark with which most people will be disposed to agree. Nor is it surprising
to find that two years later the mayor and aldermen declined a similar invitation from Sir
Francis North to attend his "feast" at the Temple, more especially as another disturbance was
threatened if the sword should be borne up before his lordship.(1385)

(M697)

In July, 1670—at a time when the City could ill afford to part with money—the king sent to
borrow £60,000.(1386) He had recently entered into a secret treaty with France (1 June), whereby
he had pledged himself to assist the French king in subjugating Holland, in return for pecuniary
support. The City agreed to advance the money, but in order to raise the sum required it became
necessary to draw upon the coal dues.(1387) Much opposition was raised to the loan by the inhabitants,(1388)
so that in November it became necessary for the city Chamberlain to borrow at interest more
than £1,000 to complete the loan.(1389) In addition to the loan by the City Charles obtained
considerable supplies from parliament when it met in the autumn. The House had been kept in
complete ignorance of the arrangement that had been made with France, and voted the money on
the understanding that it would be used in assisting the Dutch against Louis and not Louis
against the Dutch.

(M698)

In order to keep up the illusion Charles treated the Prince of Orange (afterwards William III
of England), who was on a visit to this country at the time, with the highest consideration
and insisted on the lord mayor giving "hand and place" to his foreign guest (contrary to city
custom) at an entertainment given by the City in the prince’s honour.(1390)

(M699)

As soon as parliament had voted supplies it was prorogued (11 Dec.), Charles and his "cabal"
being determined to have no restraint put upon them in carrying out the terms of the shameful
treaty with France. No long time elapsed before they had to face the difficulty of an empty
exchequer. It was useless to declare war without funds. Charles was at his wits’ end for money
and promised high office to any one who should point out a successful way of raising it. Clifford
and Ashley, two members of the cabal, put their heads together and hit upon the bold plan of
declaring a moratorium, or suspension of payments out of the royal exchequer. For many years
past it had been the custom for the goldsmiths of London and others who had been in the habit
of keeping the money of private individuals, either on deposit or running account, to lend
it to the king, who could afford to pay them a higher rate of interest than they paid to their
private customers. The money was paid into the exchequer, the bankers taking assignments of
the public revenue for payment of principal and interest, as it came in. Most of this money
had already been spent by Charles in paying off the fleet that brought him over, and in carrying
on the late war with the Dutch;(1391) but the bankers and capitalists who had provided the
money were content to abide by the king’s frequent assurance that he would continue to make
good all assignments until their whole debt should be wiped out. We may judge therefore of
their surprise and disappointment when they learnt, as they did on the 2nd January, 1672, that
the king proposed to suspend all payments out of the public revenue for one whole year!

(M700)

It is true that he promised to add the interest then due to the capital and to allow six per
cent. interest on the whole as some compensation to his creditors for the delay; but this,
even if carried into practice, proved unavailing to ward off disaster. The inevitable crash
came. Many of the London bankers, and among them Alderman Backwell, who held revenue assignments
exceeding a quarter of a million sterling, were made utterly bankrupt. A few of them who had
interest at court got wind of the threatened danger and managed to withdraw their money from
the exchequer in time, whilst Shaftesbury, one of the prime movers in closing the exchequer,
foreseeing the inevitable result, took all of his own money out of his banker’s hands and warned
his friends to do the same.

(M701)

The exchequer having been in this way made richer by £1,300,000, Charles was prepared to declare
war. An attempt to intercept a fleet of Dutch merchantmen before any declaration of war had
been made—a piratical act admitting of no possible justification—brought matters to a climax
and war was declared (17 March, 1672) by England and France. The 27th March was appointed by
royal proclamation to be kept as a solemn fast for the purpose of begging the Almighty’s blessing
on his majesty’s forces, the same prayers being used as had been specially ordained for the
late war.(1392)

(M702)

The war, which was chiefly remarkable for the noble stand made by the Dutch under the young
William, Prince of Orange, Charles’s own nephew and afterwards King of England, soon drained
the king’s resources, and once more he had to face a parliament. The parliament, which met
on the 4th February, 1673, showed itself willing to vote a subsidy of £70,000 a month for a
period of eighteen months, but only on its own terms. These were (1) the repeal of the Declaration
of Indulgence which Charles, who was beginning to show signs of favouring the Roman Church,
had by a stretch of prerogative recently caused to be issued, and (2) the passing of a Test
Act which should bind all public officers to take the oaths of supremacy and allegiance, receive
the sacrament, and abjure the doctrine of transubstantiation. By this means parliament hoped
to maintain the supremacy of the Church.

(M703)

The assessments which the City was now called upon to pay were far beyond its powers, seeing
that many merchants and traders who had left the city at the time of the Plague and Fire refused
to return, preferring to live in the suburbs, and thus a large number of the houses that had
recently been re-built were left unoccupied. Every exertion was made to get some remission
of the burden, but although the king signified his intention of making some abatement, little
appears to have been done.(1393)

(M704)

In March of this year (1673) an individual named Philip De Cardonel came forward with a scheme
for raising money by way of annuities to be granted by the city to every subscriber of £20
or more.(1394) The matter was in the first instance brought before the Court of Aldermen, who,
upon consideration, declared that the proposal appeared to them "very faire and reasonable,
and in all likelihood of very great advantage to the city," and forthwith resolved themselves
into a committee of the whole court to treat with Cardonel and take such further proceedings
as might be thought requisite.(1395) In the following month (11 April) the same proposals were
submitted to the Common Council, where they met with similar favour. The court also appointed
a committee to take them into further consideration, promising in the meantime that no advantage
should be taken or benefit derived from the scheme without the special leave and consent of
the proposer.(1396) Although the committee reported favourably on the scheme(1397) it was allowed
to drop.

(M705)

By February of the next year (1674) trade had become so bad that a number of the inhabitants
of the city petitioned the Common Council (13 Feb.) to seek some relief from parliament. An
address was accordingly drawn up, setting forth the miserable state to which the city had been
reduced by the ravages of the plague and the fire, the increase of new buildings in the suburbs,
which not only injured the trade of the city, but afforded a retreat for disorderly persons,
and excessive taxation (the city being called upon to pay the same amount of taxes as in its
most prosperous days), and praying the Commons to apply some timely remedy. The address was
to have been laid before the house on Monday, the 23rd February,(1398) but no mention of it
appears in the Commons Journal. On the 24th the House was prorogued.

(M706)

In September (1674) the old question again cropt up as to the power of the Court of Aldermen
to veto matters ordained by the Common Council. The question had arisen, it will be remembered,
in January, 1649,(1399) when Reynardson, the mayor, got up and left the Common Council, followed
by the aldermen, and the court, instead of breaking up according to custom, proceeded to pass
measures in their absence. Its action on this occasion was reported to parliament, and the
house signified its approval of the court’s proceedings and passed an ordinance which practically
deprived the Court of Aldermen of all control over the Common Council. Since that time the
matter had remained dormant, until jealousy between the two bodies was again excited by the
Common Council passing an Act (17 Sept., 1674) for compelling the aldermen to reside within
the city under the penalty of a fine of £500.(1400) Against the passing of any such Act the
Recorder, on behalf of the Court of Aldermen, formally reported their protest to the Common
Council, and the Commons as formerly protested against that protest (13 Nov.).(1401)

It was not that the mayor and aldermen were not fully conscious of the mischief arising from
their own non-residence in the city, for they themselves passed an order for every alderman
to return with his family into the city before the following Easter on pain of heavy penalty,(1402)
but they objected to the court of Common Council presuming to dictate to them.

(M707)

In the meantime the Court of Aldermen had appointed a committee (24 Sept.) to examine the question
of the right of veto, and this committee had reported (20 Oct.) in favour of the court.(1403)
"We find," said the committee, "that the court of Common Council hath always consisted, and
still it doth, of three distinct degrees of persons, viz., of the lord mayor in the first place
as the chefe magistrate, and secondly of the aldermen as subordinate magistrates, and thirdly
of the commons, or of a select number of the commons representing all the commoners of the
said city as now is, and for a long time before hath been used." In this respect the committee
proceeded to say, "the Common Councill of the city doth much resemble the constitution of the
Common Council of the kingdom, and we further find that the order of proceeding in the making
of lawes for the good government of the citty doth imitate the paterne sett them by the High
Court of Parliament, in making lawes for the government of the nation, in regard that noe ordinance
made in the Common Councell of this city can be a binding law to any without the joint consent
and concurrence of the Lord Mayor, Court of Aldermen and commoners in Common Councell assembled,
they having a joynt power and equal authority in making of lawes. So that the mayor and aldermen
cannot impose upon the commoners, nor e converso; each degree having a power to dissent or
assent as to them seems best."

The committee next pointed out how Bills for the better government of the city had formerly
originated for the most part with the mayor and aldermen, and had been by them transmitted
to the Common Council, where, after being read in two several courts (and not twice in one
court) and assented to, they became complete acts and binding laws. Such had been the usual
and salient practice. Nevertheless, the committee had found that sometimes the Common Council
had petitioned the Court of Aldermen for redress of certain grievances and the latter had complied
with such petitions, "and so sometimes Acts of Common Council have been made at the desire
of the lord mayor and aldermen signifyed to the commons by the Recorder." The conclusion that
the committee arrived at was that "the lord mayor and aldermen have negative votes as the commoners
also have, and contrary to this order of proceeding in making Acts of Common Council wee cannot
find any presedent."

On the 13th November a joint Committee of Aldermen and Commoners was appointed by the Common
Council to search the city’s Records as to "the respective privileges of the lord mayor and
aldermen and of the commons in Common Council assembled, and of the most ancient and decent
method in making laws within this citty," and to report thereon.(1404) Four days later (17
Nov.) the Court of Aldermen instructed their committee to make further search on the question.(1405)

(M708) (M709)

Matters were brought to a crisis on the 12th March, 1675, when the mayor and aldermen, dissatisfied
with the proceedings of the court of Common Council, got up and left the court. The Common
Sergeant—the notorious George Jeffreys—refusing to follow the example set by the Common Sergeant
in 1649, remained behind, and went so far as to put a question to the court of which the mayor
and aldermen had previously disapproved. For this he was shortly afterwards called to account.
His defence was that he only obeyed the wishes of the majority; but this being deemed unsatisfactory,
the Court of Aldermen ordered him to be suspended from office.(1406)

(M710) (M711)

He afterwards (23 March) offered an apology to the Court of Aldermen for his conduct, confessing
"that the question by him put at the last Common Council after the lord mayor was out of the
chair was altogether irregular," and asked pardon. Failing this his majesty would appoint a
judge to arbitrate in the matter.

(M714)

The court followed the king’s suggestion so far as related to the Common Sergeant, and having
listened to his expressions of regret for his late conduct, and his assurances that he would
always endeavour to "promote the honour and government of the city," it removed his suspension.

(M715)

As regards the real issue between the two Courts of Aldermen and Common Council, matters remained
much as they were before. Although the Court of Aldermen gave orders (12 April) that the proceedings
relative to the dispute between the two courts should be faithfully recorded, the minutes of
the Common Council at this period are particularly lacking in information as well on this as
on other matters in which the City was concerned.(1411)

(M716)

One result of the contretemps which had occurred in the court of Common Council of the 12th
March was that the Court of Aldermen resolved to retain certain counsel to advise them as occasion
should arise on the question of their rights and privileges, and to create a fund by subscription
among themselves to meet the necessary expenses.(1412)

(M717)

In April the Town Clerk and the four clerks of the outer court (i.e. mayor’s court) were instructed
to search the books and records of the city on the question whether or not it was the province
of the lord mayor (1) to direct and put the question in the Common Council, (2) to name committees,
and (3) to nominate persons to be put in election to any office.(1413) This last point especially
affected the right claimed by the mayor to nominate (if not to elect) one of the sheriffs by
virtue of his prerogative—a claim which had already been more than once canvassed and which
was destined shortly to bring the City and the Crown into violent opposition.

(M718)

On the 7th September, 1675, the Court of Aldermen directed that the opinion of counsel should
be taken on the power of the mayor and aldermen to put their veto on matters passed by the
Common Council.(1414) After the lapse of fifteen months the opinions of Sir William Jones,
the attorney-general, Sir Francis Winnington, solicitor-general, Sir John Maynard and Sir Francis
Pemberton, sergeants-at-law, and of "Mr. William Steele" (not a former Recorder of that name
as some have supposed(1415)) were presented to the court (5 Dec., 1676);(1416) and with the
exception of the last mentioned, all the lawyers declared in favour of the mayor and aldermen.
There the matter was allowed to rest for a year or more until in February, 1678, the opinions
of Sir William Dolben, not long since appointed the city’s Recorder, and of Jeffreys, the Common
Sergeant, who was destined in a few months to succeed Dolben on the latter’s promotion to the
bench, were taken and found to coincide with the opinions already delivered with the exception
of that of William Steele.(1417)

(M719) (M720) (M721) (M722)

