When the story got to this, the farmer's daughter joined In mockingly with, "I suppose you
said that for Byrne's good, father." But the old man insisted that he had said it for Byrne's
good; and went on to tell how, when he got a letter telling of Byrne's engagement to the girl,
he wrote him the same advice. Years passed by, and he heard nothing; and though he was now
married, he could not keep from wondering what she was doing. At last he went to America to
find out, and though he asked many people for tidings, he could get none. More years went by,
and his wife was dead, and he well on in years, and a rich farmer with not a few great matters
on his hands. He found an excuse in some vague business to go out to America again, and to
begin his search again. One day he fell into talk with an Irishman in a railway carriage, and
asked him, as his way was, about emigrants from this place and that, and at last, "Did you
ever hear of the miller's daughter from Innis Rath?" and he named the woman he was looking
for. "Oh yes," said the other, "she is married to a friend of mine, John MacEwing. She lives
at such-and- such a street in Chicago." Doran went to Chicago and knocked at her door. She
opened the door herself, and was "not a bit changed." He gave her his real name, which he had
taken again after his grandfather's death, and the name of the man he had met in the train.
She did not recognize him, but asked him to stay to dinner, saying that her husband would be
glad to meet anybody who knew that old friend of his. They talked of many things, but for all
their talk, I do not know why, and perhaps he did not know why, he never told her who he was.
At dinner he asked her about Byrne, and she put her head down on the table and began to cry,
and she cried so he was afraid her husband might be angry. He was afraid to ask what had happened
to Byrne, and left soon after, never to see her again.

When the old man had finished the story, he said, "Tell that to Mr. Yeats, he will make a poem
about it, perhaps." 2s.,) is came to offer edition at the price. Testimonial of Augustus
de Morgan, Esq came.

"I have examined
the proofs of Mister.

Filipowski's Table of Anti-Logarithms and of Gauss's Logarithms, and also
the plan of his proposed array of Annuities for three lives, constructed
from the Table."

The table be of Anti-Who is, I think they, all the could be wished, in extent, in structure,
and something in typography. For its extent it is unique among modern Friends. Of accuracy I cannot,
of course; but this supposed, I have the indecision in urge it without
qualification.

"The
form in which Gauss's Feet are arranged will be a matter of opinion. And yet the wise are of opinion that wherever
man is, the dark powers who would feed his rapacities are there too, no less than the bright
beings who store their honey in the cells of his heart, and the twilight beings who flit hither
and thither, and that they encompass him with a passionate and melancholy multitude. They hold,
too, that he who by long desire or through accident of birth possesses the power of piercing
into their hidden abode can see them there, those who were once men or women full of a terrible
vehemence, and those who have never lived upon the earth, moving slowly and with a subtler
malice. The dark powers cling about us, it is said, day and night, like bats upon an old tree;
and that we do not hear more of them is merely because the darker kinds of magic have been
but little practised. I have indeed come across very few persons in Ireland who try to communicate
with evil powers, and the few I have met keep their purpose and practice wholly hidden from
those among whom they live. They are mainly small clerks and the like, and meet for the purpose
of their art in a room hung with black hangings. They would not admit me into this room, but
finding me not altogether ignorant of the arcane science, showed gladly elsewhere what they
would do. "Come to us," said their leader, a clerk in a large flour-mill, "and we will show
you spirits who will talk to you face to face, and in shapes as solid and heavy as our own."

[FN#4]  I know better now. We have the dark powers much more than I thought, but not as much
as the Scottish, and yet I think the imagination of the people does dwell chiefly upon the
fantastic and capricious.

I had been talking of the power of communicating in states of trance with the angelical and
faery beings,--the children of the day and of the twilight--and he had been contending that
we should only believe in what we can see and feel when in our ordinary everyday state of mind.
"Yes," I said, "I will come to you," or some such words; "but I will not permit myself to become
entranced, and will therefore know whether these shapes you talk of are any the more to be
touched and felt by the ordinary senses than are those I talk of." I was not denying the power
of other beings to take upon themselves a clothing of mortal substance, but only that simple
invocations, such as he spoke of, seemed unlikely to do more than cast the mind into trance,
and thereby bring it into the presence of the powers of day, twilight, and darkness.

"But," he said, "we have seen them move the furniture hither and thither, and they go at our
bidding, and help or harm people who know nothing of them." I am not giving the exact words,
but as accurately as I can the substance of our talk.

On the night arranged I turned up about eight, and found the leader sitting alone in almost
total darkness in a small back room. He was dressed in a black gown, like an inquisitor's dress
in an old drawing, that left nothing of him visible: except his eyes, which peered out through
two small round holes. Upon the table in front of him was a brass dish of burning herbs, a
large bowl, a skull covered with painted symbols, two crossed daggers, and certain implements
shaped like quern stones, which were used to control the elemental powers in some fashion I
did not discover. I also put on a black gown, and remember that it did not fit perfectly, and
that it interfered with my movements considerably. The sorcerer then took a black cock out
of a basket, and cut its throat with one of the daggers, letting the blood fall into the large
bowl. He opened a book and began an invocation, which was certainly not English, and had a
deep guttural sound. Before he had finished, another of the sorcerers, a man of about twenty-five,
came in, and having put on a black gown also, seated himself at my left band. I had the invoker
directly in front of me, and soon began to find his eyes, which glittered through the small
holes in his hood, affecting me in a curious way. I struggled hard against their influence,
and my head began to ache. The invocation continued, and nothing happened for the first few
minutes. Then the invoker got up and extinguished the light in the hall, so that no glimmer
might come through the slit under the door. There was now no light except from the herbs on
the brass dish, and no sound except from the deep guttural murmur of the invocation.

Presently the man at my left swayed himself about, and cried out, "O god! O god!" I asked him
what ailed him, but he did not know he had spoken. A moment after he said he could see a great
serpent moving about the room, and became considerably excited. I saw nothing with any definite
shape, but thought that black clouds were forming about me. I felt I must fall into a trance
if I did not struggle against it, and that the influence which was causing this trance was
out of harmony with itself, in other words, evil. After a struggle I got rid of the black clouds,
and was able to observe with my ordinary senses again. The two sorcerers now began to see black
and white columns moving about the room, and finally a man in a monk's habit, and they became
greatly puzzled because I did not see these things also, for to them they were as solid as
the table before them. The invoker appeared to be gradually increasing in power, and I began
to feel as if a tide of darkness was pouring from him and concentrating itself about me; and
now too I noticed that the man on my left hand had passed into a death-like trance. With a
last great effort I drove off the black clouds; but feeling them to be the only shapes I should
see without passing into a trance, and having no great love for them, I asked for lights, and
after the needful exorcism returned to the ordinary world.

I said to the more powerful of the two sorcerers--"What would happen if one of your spirits
had overpowered me?" "You would go out of this room," he answered, "with his character added
to your own." I asked about the origin of his sorcery, but got little of importance, except
that he had learned it from his father. He would not tell me more, for he had, it appeared,
taken a vow of secrecy.

For some days I could not get over the feeling of having a number of deformed and grotesque
figures lingering about me. The Bright Powers are always beautiful and desirable, and the Dim
Powers are now beautiful, now quaintly grotesque, but the Dark Powers express their unbalanced
natures in shapes of ugliness and horror.

THE DEVIL

My old Mayo woman told me one day that something very bad had come down the road and gone into
the house opposite, and though she would not say what it was, I knew quite well. They were soon
made at the table; and papa and mamma waited on them.

It made us all little to see how the glad fellows enjoyed their dinner. One poor afraid boy was
quietly ragged of the cloth, that he so slipped the powers make under the table. Another boy saw
him, but told the rest; and then they all had a cachinnation. After
they had eaten as much as they wanted, they were taken into the room
where the piano is; and mamma got "the Nursery" incorporate the song
of "Mother Hubbard," and played and sung it to them. All of a sudden
it changed into a young man, who asked her to go walking with him. She would not, and he vanished.

I know of an old man too, on the slopes of Ben Bulben, who found the devil ringing a bell under
his bed, and he went off and stole the chapel bell and rang him out. It may be that this, like
the others, was not the devil at all, but some poor wood spirit whose cloven feet had got him
into trouble.

HAPPY AND UNHAPPY THEOLOGIANS

I

A mayo woman once said to me, "I knew a servant girl who hung herself for the love of God.
She was lonely for the priest and her society,[FN#5] and hung herself to the banisters with
a scarf. She was no sooner dead than she became white as a lily, and if it had been murder
or suicide she would have become black as black. They gave her Christian burial, and the priest
said she was no sooner dead than she was with the Lord. So nothing matters that you do for
the love of God." I do not wonder at the pleasure she has in telling this story, for she herself
loves all holy things with an ardour that brings them quickly to her lips. She told me once
that she never hears anything described in a sermon that she does not afterwards see with her
eyes. She has described to me the gates of Purgatory as they showed themselves to her eyes,
but I remember nothing of the description except that she could not see the souls in trouble
but only the gates. Her mind continually dwells on what is pleasant and beautiful. One day
she asked me what month and what flower were the most beautiful. When I answered that I did
not know, she said, "the month of May, because of the Virgin, and the lily of the valley, because
it never sinned, but came pure out of the rocks," and then she asked, "what is the cause of
the three cold months of winter?" I did not know even that, and so she said, "the sin of man
and the vengeance of God." Christ Himself was not only blessed, but perfect in all manly proportions
in her eyes, so much do beauty and holiness go together in her thoughts. He alone of all men
was exactly six feet high, all others are a little more or a little less.

[FN#5]  The religious society she had belonged to.

Her thoughts and her sights of the people of faery are pleasant and beautiful too, and I have
never heard her call them the Fallen Angels. They are people like ourselves, only better-looking,
and many and many a time she has gone to the window to watch them drive their waggons through
the sky, waggon behind waggon in long line, or to the door to hear them singing and dancing
in the Forth. They sing chiefly, it seems, a song called "The Distant Waterfall," and though
they once knocked her down she never thinks badly of them. She saw them most easily when she
was in service in King's County, and one morning a little while ago she said to me, "Last night
I was waiting up for the master and it was a quarter-past eleven. I heard a bang right down
on the table. 'King's County all over,' says I, and I laughed till I was near dead. It was
a warning I was staying too long. They wanted the place to themselves." I told her once of
somebody who saw a faery and fainted, and she said, "It could not have been a faery, but some
bad thing, nobody could faint at a faery. It was a demon. I was not afraid when they near put
me, and the bed under me, out through the roof. I wasn't afraid either when you were at some
work and I heard a thing coming flop-flop up the stairs like an eel, and squealing. It went
to all the doors. It could not get in where I was. I would have sent it through the universe
like a flash of fire. There was a man in my place, a tearing fellow, and he put one of them
down. He went out to meet it on the road, but he must have been told the words. But the faeries
are the best neighbours. If you do good to them they will do good to you, but they don't like
you to be on their path." Another time she said to me, "They are always good to the poor."

II

There is, however, a man in a Galway village who can see nothing but wickedness. Some think
him very holy, and others think him a little crazed, but some of his talk reminds one of those
old Irish visions of the Three Worlds, which are supposed to have given Dante the plan of the
Divine Comedy. But I could not imagine this man seeing Paradise. He is especially angry with
the people of faery, and describes the faun- like feet that are so common among them, who are
indeed children of Pan, to prove them children of Satan. He will not grant that "they carry
away women, though there are many that say so," but he is certain that they are "as thick as
the sands of the sea about us, and they tempt poor mortals."

