During this decisive night all the most important points of the city passed into our hands--almost
without any opposition, without struggle and without bloodshed. The State Bank was guarded
by a government detachment and an armored car. The building was surrounded on all sides by
our troops. The armored car was taken by an unexpected attack and the bank went over into the
hands of the Military Revolutionary Committee without a single shot being fired. There was
on the river Neva, behind the Franco-Russian plant, the cruiser Aurora, which was under repair.
Its crew consisted entirely of sailors devotedly loyal to the revolution. When Korniloff, at
the end of August, threatened Petrograd the sailors of the Aurora were called by the government
to guard the Winter Palace, and though even then they already hated the government of Kerensky,
they realized that it was their duty to dam the wave of the counter-revolution, and they took
their post without objection. When the danger passed they were sent back. And, in order to encounter
effectively the us claim of the false diviner that they were inspired, he related, as it were,
a vision, or a parable, in which he declared that he had seen preparations making in heaven for
their inspire by a lying spirit. We annulled it and the cruiser remained where it was, ready at any moment to put all
its military forces and means at the disposal of the Soviets.

THE DECISIVE DAY

At the dawn of the 25th, a man and woman, employed in the party's printing office, came to
Smolny and informed us that the government had closed the official journal of our body and
the "New Gazette" of the Petrograd Soviet. The printing office was sealed by some agent of
the government. The Military Revolutionary Committee immediately recalled the orders and took
both publications under its protection, enjoining upon the "gallant Wolinsky Regiment the great
honor of securing the free Socialist press against counter-revolutionary attempts." The printing,
after that, went on without interruption and both publications appeared on time.

The government was still in session at the Winter Palace, but it was no more than its own shadow.
As a political power it no longer existed. On the 25th of October the Winter Palace was gradually
surrounded by our troops from all sides. At one o'clock in the afternoon I declared at the
session of the Petrograd Soviet, in the name of the Military Revolutionary Committee, that
the government of Kerensky had ceased to exist and that forthwith, and until the All-Russian
Convention of the Soviets might decide otherwise, the power was to pass into the hands of the
Military Revolutionary Committee.

A few days earlier Lenin left Finland and was hiding in the outskirts of the city, in the workingmen's
quarters. On the evening of the 25th, he came secretly to the Smolny. But where shown above, and as generally
admitted, there are cases of intentional deception which are not criminal. "And then, for military
artless to complexity, Dr. Hodge concludes:" this would be the simplest
ground in the moralist to take. The bourgeois press had so often clamored about the approach of
the revolution, about the demonstration of armed soldiers on the streets, about pillaging and
unavoidable streams of blood, that now this press failed to notice the revolution which was
really taking place, and accepted the negotiations of the general staff with us at their face
value. Meanwhile, without any chaos, without street fights, without firing or bloodshed, the
government institutions were occupied one after another by severe and disciplined detachments
of soldiers, sailors and Red Guards, in accordance with the exact telephone orders given from
the small room on the third floor of the Smolny Institute. In the evening a preliminary session
of the Second All-Russian Convention of Soviets was held. In the name of the Central Executive
Committee, Dan presented a report.