"At that moment, we spied two horsemen approaching our camp. Our hearts fluttered with emotion.
The incident, simple as it was, proved to be of great importance to us. We felt as if Providence
had not forsaken us, and that the two horsemen, heralds of peace and joy, were his messengers
of love in our sore trials.

"We were not mistaken, petiots. When the cavaliers alighted, they addressed us in English,
but in words so soft and kind, that the sound of the hated language did not grate on our ears,
and seemed as sweet as that of our own tongue. They bowed gracefully to us, and introduced
themselves as Charles Smith and Henry Brent. 'We are informed,' said they, 'that you are exiles,
and that you have been cast penniless on our shores. We have come to greet you, and to welcome
you to the hospitality of our roofs.' These kind words sank deep in our hearts. 'Good sirs,'
answered Rene Leblanc, 'you behold a wretched people bereft of their homes and whose only crime
is their love for France and their devotion to the Catholic faith,' and saying this, he raised
his hat, and every man of our party did the same. 'We thank you heartily for your greeting
and for your hospitality so generously tendered. See, we number over two hundred persons, and
it would be taxing your generosity too heavily, no one but a king could accomplish your noble
design.'

"'Sir,' they answered, 'we are citizens of Maryland, and we own large estates. We have everything
in abundance at our homes, and this abundance we are willing to share with you. Accept our
offer, and the Brent and Smith families will ever be grateful to God, who has given them the
means to minister to your wants, assuage your afflictions and soothe your sorrows.'

"How could we decline an offer so generously made? It was impossible for us to find words expressive
of our gratitude. Unable to utter a single word, we shook hands with them, but our silence
was far more eloquent than any language we could have used."

Chapter Seven

 Assisted by Their Generous
 Friends

 The Acadians become prosperous, but yearn to rejoin
 their friends and relatives in Louisiana

"The same day, we moved to their farms, which lay near by, and I shall never forget the kind
welcome we received from these two families. They vied with each other in their kind offices
toward us, and ministered to our wants with so much grace and affability, that it gave additional
charm and value to their already boundless hospitality.

"Petiots, let the names of Brent and of Smith remain enchased forever like precious jewels
in your hearts, let their remembrance never fade from your memory, for more generous and worthier
beings never breathed the pure air of heaven.

"Thus it was, petiots, that we settled in Maryland after leaving Acadia.

"Three years passed away peacefully and happily, and during the whole
of that time, the Smith and Brent families remained our steadfast
friends. Our party had prospered, and plenty smiled once more in
our homes. We lived as happy as exiles could live away from the
fatherland, ignorant of the fate of those who had been torn from us
 soruthlessly. In vain we had endeavored to ascertain the lot of
our friends and relatives, and what had become of them; we could
learn nothing. Many parents wept for their lost children; many a
disconsolate wife pined away in sorrow and hopeless grief for a
lost husband; but, petiots, the saddest of all was the fate of
poor Emmeline Labiche."

Emmeline Labiche? Who was Emmeline Labiche? We had never heard her name mentioned before, and
our curiosity was excited to the highest pitch.

Chapter Eight

 The True Story
 of
 Evangeline

"Emmeline Labiche, petiots, was an orphan whose parents had died when she was quite a child.
I had taken her to my home, and had raised her as my own daughter. How sweet-tempered, how
loving she was! She had grown to womanhood with all the attractions of her sex, and, although
not a beauty in the sense usually given to that word, she was looked upon as the handsomest
girl of St. Gabriel. Her soft, transparent hazel eyes mirrored her pure thoughts; her dark
brown hair waved in graceful undulations on her intelligent forehead, and fell in ringlets
on her shoulders, her bewitching smile, her slender, symmetrical shape, all contributed to
make her a most attractive picture of maiden loveliness.

"Emmeline, who had just completed her sixteenth year, was on the eve of marrying a most deserving,
laborious and well-to-do young man of St. Gabriel, Louis Arceneaux. Their mutual love dated
from their earliest years, and all agreed that Providence willed their union as man and wife,
she the fairest young maiden, he the most deserving youth of St. Gabriel.

"Their bans had been published in the village church, the nuptial day was fixed, and their
long love-dream was about to be realized, when the barbarous scattering of our colony took place.

"Our oppressors had driven us to the seashore, where their ships rode at anchor, when Louis,
resisting, was brutally wounded by them. Emmeline had witnessed the whole scene. Her lover
was carried on board of one of the ships, the anchor was weighed, and a stiff breeze soon drove
the vessel out of sight. Emmeline, tearless and speechless, stood fixed to the spot, motionless
as a statue, and when the white sail vanished in the distance, she uttered a wild, piercing
shriek, and fell fainting to the ground.

"When she came to, she clasped me in her arms, and in an agony of grief, she sobbed piteously.
'Mother, mother,' she said, in broken words, 'he is gone; they have killed him; what will become
of me?'

"I soothed her grief with endearing words until she wept freely. Gradually its violence subsided,
but the sadness of her countenance betokened the sorrow that preyed on her heart, never to
be contaminated by her love for another one.

"Thus she lived in our midst, always sweet tempered, but with such sadness depicted in her
countenance, and with smiles so sorrowful, that we had come to look upon her as not of this
earth, but rather as our guardian angel, and this is why we called her no longer Emmeline,
but Evangeline, or God's little angel.

"The sequel of her story is not gay, petiots, and my poor old heart breaks, whenever I recall
the misery of her fate," and while our grandmother spoke thus, her whole figure was tremulous
with emotion.

"Grandmother," we said, "we feel so interested in Evangeline, God's little angel, do tell us
what befell her afterwards."

"Petiots, how can I refuse to comply with your request? I will now tell you what became of
poor Emmeline," and after remaining a while in thoughtful revery, she resumed her narrative.

"Emmeline, petiots, had been exiled to Maryland with me. She was, as I have told you, my adopted
child. She dwelt with me, and she followed me in my long pilgrimage from Maryland to Louisiana.
I shall not relate to you now the many dangers that beset us on our journey, and the many obstacles
we had to overcome to reach Louisiana; this would be anticipating what remains for me to tell
you. When we reached the Teche country, at the Poste des Attakapas, we found there the whole
population congregated to welcome us. As we went ashore, Emmeline walked by my side, but seemed
not to admire the beautiful landscape that unfolded itself to our gaze. Alas! it was of no
moment to her whether she strolled on the poetical banks of the Teche, or rambled in the picturesque
sites of Maryland. She lived in the past, and her soul was absorbed in the mournful regret
of that past. For her, the universe had lost the prestige of its beauties, of its freshness,
of its splendors. The radiance of her dreams was dimmed, and she breathed in an atmosphere
of darkness and of desolation.

"She walked beside me with a measured step. All at once, she grasped my hand, and, as if fascinated
by some vision, she stood rooted to the spot. Her very heart's blood suffused her cheeks, and
with the silvery tones of a voice vibrating with joy: 'Mother! Mother!' she cried out, 'it
is he! It is Louis!' pointing to the tall figure of a man reclining under a large oak tree.

"That man was Louis Arceneaux.

"With the rapidity of lightning, she flew to his side, and in an ecstacy of joy: 'Louis, Louis,'
said she, 'I am your Emmeline, your long lost Emmeline! Have you forgotten me?'

"Louis turned ashy pale and hung down his head, without uttering a word.

"'Louis," said she, painfully impressed by her lover's silence and coldness, 'why do you turn
away from me? I am still your Emmeline, your betrothed, and I have kept pure and unsullied
my plighted faith to you. Not a word of welcome, Louis?' she said, as the tears started to
her eyes. 'Tell me, do tell me that you love me still, and that the joy of meeting me has overcome
you, and stifled your utterance.'

"Louis Arceneaux, with quivering lips and tremulous voice, answered: 'Emmeline, speak not so
kindly to me, for I am unworthy of you. I can love you no longer; I have pledged my faith to
another. Tear from your heart the remembrance of the past, and forgive me,' and with quick
step, he walked away, and was soon lost to view in the forest.

"Poor Emmeline stood trembling like an aspen leaf. I took her hand; it was icy cold. A deathly
pallor had overspread her countenance, and her eye had a vacant stare.

"'Emmeline, my dear girl, come,' said I, and she followed me like a child. I clasped her in
my arms. 'Emmeline, my dear child, be comforted; there may yet be happiness in store for you.'

"'Emmeline, Emmeline,' she muttered in an undertone, as if to recall that name, 'who is Emmeline?'
Then looking in my face with fearful shining eyes that made me shudder, she said in a strange,
unnatural voice: 'Who are you?' and turned away from me. Her mind was unhinged; this last shock
had been too much for her broken heart; she was hopelessly insane.

"How strange it is, petiots, that beings, pure and celestial like Emmeline, should be the sport
of fate, and be thus exposed to the shafts of adversity. Is it true, then, that the beloved
of God are always visited by sore trials? Was it that Emmeline was too ethereal a being for
this world, and that God would have her in his sweet paradise? It does not belong to us, petiots,
to solve this mystery and to scrutinize the decrees of Providence; we have only to bow submissive
to his will.

"Emmeline never recovered her reason, and a deep melancholy settled upon her. Her beautiful
countenance was fitfully lightened by a sad smile which made her all the fairer. She never
recognized any one but me, and nestling in my arms like a spoiled child, she would give me
the most endearing names. As sweet and as amiable as ever, every one pitied and loved her.

"When poor, crazed Emmeline strolled upon the banks of the Teche, plucking the wild flowers
that strewed her pathway, and singing in soft tones some Acadian song, those that met her wondered
why so fair and gentle a being should have been visited with God's wrath.

