 

The news of this was going to the actual Inca, which, as will the city and enter in it, went
straight to the temple of the sun to make sacrifices. Capac bodies and other who had died, he ordered
them to be thrown into the fields to be food of birds and looking for participants in the
treason, were sentenced to death.

Understood by the Confederates and Viracocha Inga friends what happened, they sent many embassies
with great gifts and pledges, congratulating him, and responded to
these embassies happily.

At this time, say the apricots that were in the temple of the sun many ladies virgin which was
very honored and valued and did not understand more of what is to me that in many Part of this history.
They say that four of them used their bodies hideously certain porters
who guarded, and being felt, were arrested and do the same to adulterers,
and the high priest commanded them and they were righteous.

The Inca was with Condesuyo determination, but, being tired and old, left. By then, he commanded
him were made in the Valley of Xaquixaguana some palaces to exit to recreate in them, and as
he had many sons and conosco that the eldest, who had Urco called Inca, on whom was to be in
charge of the kingdom, had bad habits was vicious and a coward, wanted
to deprive him of dominion, to give it to another youth, who had named
Inca Yupanqui.

Many stories and occurrences happened between the natives of these provinces at this time; but,
as I have the habit of having only what I have of course according to the views of men here
and the relationship that I took in Cuzco, I leave very clearly that inorganic é I did not
understand, and I will try what I achieved as I have said many times before. And so is public
between dried apricots, which this time came to Cuzco ambassadors of the province of Collao because
they have that, reigning Inca Viracocha, Hatun possessed the lordship of [130] a man Collao Zapana
named as another hobo this name, and that as the malaria Titicaca [131] hobiese populated islands of people,
with large rafts, entered the islands, where he fought with the natives Dell and occurred between
him and them great battles, of which Carl [132] emerged victorious [133]; Besides, no one pretended
to honor or lordship rather than steal and destroy people, and loaded spoliation, without wanting
to bring captives turned over Chucuito, where he had made his seat and had its mandate is Hilave
village peoples, Xulli, [or Chulli] Cepita, Pumata [134] and others, and with people who might
join, after great sacrifices have dated their gods, or demons, determined to go to the province
of Canas, who, as I knew, named one [to others], went out to meet him and gave battle in which
were the Canas defeated with the death of many of them. Since this victory Cari, determined to
move forward, and in so doing reached Lurocachi, to where they say there was another battle
between them and that Canas had the same fortune in past.

With these victories, Carl was very proud, and the new had run everywhere, and as Zapana, the
Lord of Hatun Collao, to know it, grieved for the sake of others, and sent together his friends
and vassals, for you out on the road and take the spoils, but could not be done the meeting so secret
that Carl did not understand the plan that had Zapana, and good order retired to Chucuito by
wrong way, so that might not bother Zapana, and reached his land, he ordered the main della
together, that they might apercebidos for what Zapana tried, having
the purpose to pursue their destruicion and one in the Collao was
the Lord, and this very thought had Zapana.

And as is becoming known throughout the kingdom, the value of the Incas and their great power
and courage Viracocha Inga, who reigned at Cuzco, every one of these, trying to win their friendship,
sought with the ambassadors sent to him to show his defender and wanted to be against their enemy. These
messengers with large parties present at the time reached the Cuzco quel Inca palaces or permission
of the dairy farms that had sent for his hobby do Xaquixaguana; and understood what she came
and heard them, ordering that the rooms in the city and proveyesen what is necessary, and take
Paresce with dried apricots and elders of his advice on what would do with regard to the embassies
that had come from the Collao, it was agreed to request response in the oracles. Which are ahead
of the priests of idols, and shrink your shoulders, put the beard on the breasts, and making great
papos, which they themselves appear fierce devils begin to speak loudly and toned. Sometimes,
I, for my eyes, I've certainly heard speak to Indians with the devil, and in the province of
Cartagena, a seaside town called Bahayre, I heard the Devil in silvo respond Tenorio, and with such
tenors, I do not know how I say, but a chripstiano who was in the said town more than half a mile
from where I was, he himself heard Silva and despanto, was somewhat reluctant, and the Indians
were very great cry another day in the morning by posting the response of the Devil. And in
some parts of this land, as the deceased have them in hammocks, enter the bodies of demons and
sometimes respond.

A Aranda heard me say, quen Carex Island [135] saw also speak to a desto dead, and childish
things is to laugh and lies that are told.

For as the Inca determined to have response from the oracles, sent I used to go to such cases,
and say they knew that he must go to the Collao and seek the favor of Carl, and as This hobo understood,
Paresce sent before the messengers of Zapana, to whom said tell his Lord, he would come out with
shortness of Cuzco to see the land of the Collao, to where they would see and treat your friend.
Those who came from Carl said that they told him adrezando how he
was to go to his aid and favor, that would be with him soon.

And since this hobiese past, the Inca ordered to meeting people to get out of Cuzco, leaving one
of the main governor of her lineage.

Determined by the Inca to go to the Collao, left the city of Cuzco with many people from war, Moyna
and passed, and the towns and Quiquixana Urcos. Because they knew the coming Canches Inca,
agreed to be together and leave with their weapons to defend him pass through his land; and he understood,
he sent messengers were told that they had no such purpose because that he did not want to
anger them, before they have wished for by friends, and that if he it came the major and captains,
which would give them to drink their own glass. The Canches [137] said unto the messengers that
were not by going through what they said, but to defend the land of those who enter it. Gone
with the response, met with Viracocha Inga in Cangalla, and full of anger at how little had Canches
Embassy, ​​walked over a rate that far, and coming to a town that has his name Combapata, beside
a river he passes, he found the posts in order Canches war, and there was given between each
other battle, where many died on both sides, and Canches were defeated
and fled which could, and the victors after them, binding and killing.

And having spent much while, returned with plunder, bringing many captives, both men, as women.

And since this hobiese past, Courts across the province sent messengers to Inca forgive them and
receive him in his service, and how he wanted nothing else, gave it to I used to conditions, which
was, to receive me by the sovereign lords of Cuzco is rigiesen by its laws and customs, thus
taxed in their villages hobiese under as did the others.

And having been some days in these things and understanding in making to understand people's courts
that they had agreed together, and that included not hobiese be given war or passion, and passed
on.

The large number Canas coupled habíanse Dell in the village called Lurucachi [138] and as understand
the damage that had the Canches receive him, and as the Inca not
to insult to the of so-called friends, or consented them wrong, determined
to make friends with him.

To this, the Inca king was walking, going to Lurucachi [139], and will understand that Canas had,
he showed was very pleased, and as that district was in the Aconcagua temple, he sent great
presents to idols and priests.

Arrived ambassadors from Canas, were well received by the Inca Viracocha, and answered them that
would be the largest and oldest of the Canas up near where you would
see, and as hobiese been some days in the temple of Vilcanota, they
would haste to be with them.

Y gave to the messengers some jewelry and fine woolens, é ordered his warriors not were daring
to enter the homes of Canas, steal anything they had, and waited until no harm, for the good
heart that had not obscured them and to take another thought.

The Canas, heard the answer, they sent a lot of maintenance to the roads and down of the people to
serve the Inca, with much justice understood that they were not injured in anything, and were provided
with livestock and suvica [140], which is your wine, and as hobiere reached the temple vain, made
according to their pagan sacrifices, killing many lambs for slaughter.

Ayavire walked away to where they were by far proveimiento Canas Inca and spoke to them lovingly,
and with them established his seat of peace as he used with others. And Canas, having as profitable
for them to be governed by so holy and righteous laws, reuse not going to pay tribute and
recognition to Cuzco.

This past Viracocha Inga determined to be from the Collao, to which already sap all what he
had been made, and in the pitch and in the Canas, and were waiting for him in Incas, and the same
in Hatun Collao Zapana to where Carl was already understanding how it gratulations to Viracocha
had, and that he was waiting, and because they are made more powerful remembered him to seek out
and give battle before the Inca came together with him, and Carl, who ought to be brave, went
with his people to a town called Paucarcolla [141], and together
were addressed to him the two most powerful tyrants of the region,
with so many people, which states that one hundred and fifty gathered
guarangas [142] of Indians and among all the battle was given his
style, which tell that he was very close and that killed more than
thirty Indian mill.

And having endured great time, Carl was the victor, and Zapana and his people were defeated
with death of many, and the same Zapana was killed in this battle.

After Zapana was killed, Carl took over his real and stole everything it had, with dam that turned
the Chucuito, and was waiting to Viracocha Inga, and sent adreszar the apartments and provide them
with maintenance. The Inca learned on the road to war and how Carl had expired, and although
the public have been loosely implied in secret I weighed about what
happened, because there differences between those two, I thought it
easily be lord of Collao, and thought of it again briefly to Cuzco,
because it does not happen misfortune.

And as was already near Chucuito, Carl went to the chief men of his own to him receive him, and
was quartermaster é well served, and as a wish to return to Cuzco briefly spoke with Carl, flattering
words of flattery about how much had been loose for good wanderings, and had come to help you
all will, and that it might be true that whenever it would be a good friend, I wanted to give
to wife to his daughter. To which Carl replied that was very old and was very tired that she
begged him to marry his daughter with youth, as I had in so many to choose from, and who knew
he had to take as lord and friend and recognize in what he commands, and so, it would help
in wars and other things that I offer. Y then, in the presence of the most major who were there,
he ordered a Viracocha Inga large gold cup and made the tribute lawsuit between them in this
way: they drank a bit of women had wine, and then the Inca took the glass and said, and putting
up a very smooth stone, said: "The sign is this, that this vessel is here and I did not move
neither you touch him, as a sign of what was set to be true. "And he kissed, made obeisance to the
sun, and did a great tachycardia and areyto with many sounds, and the priests, saying certain
words, took the glass to one of the bays where they placed the temple oaths like that they made
for kings and lords.

And having loose some days Viracocha Inga in Chucuito returned to Cuzco, being served everywhere
and very well received.

E and many provinces were settled, and could use improvements had better clothes and custom and
religions than before, governed by the laws and customs of Cuzco. Where he had been ruler of
the Inca city Urco, son of Viracocha Inca, which feature was very cowardly, reluctant, full
of vices and few virtues, but, as the eldest, had to happen on the rule of his father, who say
that, knowing these things, like many private of dominion and give it to Inca Yupanqui, his
second son, young man of very great value and adorned well-mannered, brave and courageous,
and I had the very great and high thoughts; more, the apricots and the main city did not want
them to be broken the laws and what was used and kept by ordination and status of the past,
and even knew how Inca was badly bent Urco, wanted him and no other to be king after the death
of his father. And this I have said so long, they say that desto warned me that since Urcos Viracocha
Inga EMBI their messengers to the city to get treated, and can not conclude anything of what
he wanted. And you come in Cuzco, he was made much he had received, and as I was very old and
tired, he decided to leave the government of the kingdom to his son
and give him the tassel and out the valley of Xaquixaguana Yucay and
to recreate and be glad, and he reported with the city because it
could not happen Inca Yupanqui.

Dried apricots, and even all the other natives of these provinces, the facts Deste reyeron Inca Urco.
For his poquedades, want to enjoy not say who achieved the rank of kingdom, and thus we see that
the account that the quipos and romances are the kings who reigned in Cuzco, this silent, which I will
not, because in the end, bad or good, with vices or virtues ruled the kingdom and sent a few days.
And after Viracocha Inga went to Valley Xaquixaguana, sent to Cuzco the fringe or crown, that
the elders of the city's surrender to Inca Urco having said that what had worked enough and
made by the city of Cuzco, that what of life he had wanted to spend on idle, it was old and not
war. And His will was understood then to make Inca Urco sentra fasting and other religions
as his custom, and finishing out with the crown and went to the temple
of the sun to make sacrifices; and made in Cuzco to his style a lot
of parties and great drinking.

Urco Inca had married his sister to have her son to succeed him in the manor. It was so vicious and
given to debauchery and dishonesty, without cure of it, it was with women low and concubines, who
were wanted and that she liked, and still claim that corrupted some of the quest in the temple
virgins, and it was so much honor, he did not want to be accepted. And he walked the more parts
of the city drinking, and after he had the body with the at sign and more than one drink, causing
vomiting, threw him, and shamelessly uncovered parts shameful, and I laid the chicha converted
into urine, and dried apricots that had to beautiful women via when he said: "My children, how
are you?" Implying that having them used, those who had were from
and not their husbands.

Building or house never made it, was an enemy weapons, in short, nothing but good feature of
being very liberal.

And hobiese taken the fringe, after being past few days, to sally forth idling at the houses
of pleasure for recreation of the Incas were made, leaving their lieutenant to Inca Yupanqui, who was
the father of Tupac Inca, and later tell you.

Cuzco things being this way, the Chanca, as told earlier, had beaten Quichua and occupied most
of the province of Andabailes, and as they were victorious, hearing what was said of the greatness
of Cuzco and its wealth and majesty of the Incas, they wanted he be not shrink or stop moving
forward, picking up weapons to them all possible; and then made great prayers to their gods
or demons, and leaving Andabailes, which is what the Spanish call Andaguaylas [143], which is entrusted
to Diego Maldonado rich enough people to defend her, and with whom he was meeting for the war, came
Hastu Huaraca and [144] his brother is very brave, called Omoguara, and left their province with
very great pride, Cuzco road, and walked until they reached Curampa [145], which settled its
real, and did great harm to the natives of the region. But as in those days many of people were
in the tall hills of the mountains, with large fences, called pucaraes not many deaths could
do or wanted to cannot, nor more than steal the fields. They went out of Curampa [146] and
went to the apartment of Cochacassa [147] and the river of Amancay [148] were destroying everything,
and so came to Cuzco, where he had already been the new of the enemies that came against the
city, but, although he was known by the old Viracocha not given anything, but before, leaving
Xaquixaguana Valley, went to Valley Yucay with their wives and service. Inca Urco also say
that he laughed, taking in just what it was obliged to take much, but, as the being of Cuzco
was saved to be increased by Inca Yupanqui and his sons, hobo he
be the one who got rid of these fears, his virtue, to all and not
only conquered the Chanca more subdued most of the nations is in these
realms, as I shall.

After the sacrifices made Chancas hobieron Apurimac, and arrived near the city of Cuzco, who wore
the captain general, or Lord of them, Hastu Guaraca [149] told them that mirasen company that
had high, that they stood strong and did not have any fear or dread of those who thought stop
scaring people with ears as large as they they placed, and that if
won, would have much to plunder and beautiful women who enjoy itself;
yours cheerfully replied that he would do his duty.

For as in the city of Cuzco hobiesen known and those who came against her, and Viracocha Inga nor
his son should give Inca Urco not anything for it, the apricots and more major were much sense
for it, and as I knew how close they were enemies, were made great sacrifices his custom, and
agreed to plead to Inca Yupanqui to take charge of war, looking after the health of everyone. And taking
his hand one of the oldest, spoke with him on behalf of all and he replied that when his father
wanted him to give the fringe, not consent, but it was Coward Inca his brother, and he never
with tyranny and against the will Village claimed kingship, and that it had already seen Inca
Urco not be suitable for be Inca, who do what they were obligated to the public good, without looking
at the ancient custom was not broken. Dried apricots responded, which ended the war, to understand
in which to rule the kingdom you agreed, and said that the county sent messengers that all who
wished to come to be residents of Cuzco, they would be given land in the valley and site for
homes, and would be privileged, and so came from many quarters. And after this, Inca Yupanqui,
the captain came to the square where the stone was the war brought
to their skin of a lion head, and give to understand that was to be
as strong as that animal.

At this time came the Chance to the saw Villcacunga [150], and Inca Yupanqui ordered join the warriors
who were in the city, with determination you out on the road appointing
the most valiant captains seemed, but, turning to take apparently
agreed the wait in the city.

The Chancas came to put his real Carmenga next to the hill, which is above the city, and then
put their stores. Those of Cuzco by the parties had made the entry big city rock filled pits
and covered over crafty, so as to fall that there walked. As in the Cuzco saw the women and
children [151] the enemy hobieron much horror and walked a great noise. Inca Yupanqui sent
messengers to Hastu Guaraca to settle among them, and no death hobiese people. Guaraca Hastu
with pride he disdained the embassy, ​​and would not go over so that particular war, though,
importunities of his relatives and more people wanted to have discussion with the Inca and
so he sent to say .-- The city is located between hills in place strong by nature, and the
slopes and ropes were cut saws and many parts made of palm stout spines, which are as strong
as iron and more bitter and harmful [152] .-- They have spoken to Inca Guaraca Hastu And being
all put into a weapon, used rare sight because lighting more words to each other they said, relatives
to the hands, having very large screams and noise - because the men here are very alharaquientos
in his fights, and most feared his cries that his efforts for us - and fought each other long while,
and came night, the contest process, leaving the Chanca in real, and the city della round, keeping
it everywhere, because the enemy could not enter, because Cuzco and other places of these parts
are not fenced wall.

After the peal Guaraca Hastu encouraged to strive for their own fight, and do the same to Inca Yupanqui
and apricots to the people who were in the city. The Chancas, boldly went their actual will of the
entry, and those of Cuzco came to defend himself thinking; and turned to the fight, killing
many on both sides, but, as was the value Inca Yupanqui, who achieved victory in the battle
with death of the Chanca all, not escaped to what they say, but little more than five hundred,
and amongst these the captain Hastu Guaraca, which with them, although with difficulty, came
to his province.

The Inca enjoyed the spoils and hobo cannot so many men and women.

Disrupted the Chanca entered Cuzco Inca Yupanqui with great success and spoke to the chief of apricots
on who remembered how he had worked for them what they had seen,
and how little his brother or his father showed to have the enemy,
so to give him to him the lordship and rule the empire.

On the other hand, there are many ways by which even a near translation of the economic pact
into actuality may work hardship--even disaster--to American commercial interests. There seemed
Indian lady but transported from the aristocratic salons of the court.

- Fernanda How elegant! - Said the Count quietly, bowing involvement.

Beauty hardly deigned to smile, extending a little lower lip with
a slight sneer.

- How are you, Luis? - Said extending his hand with
marked indifference.

- Not as good as you ... but in the end, I have
visited.

- Nothing more than passing?

... Sorry. I will most perfectly, no you're wrong - said in the same dismissive tone, without looking
at his face.

- How not to be everywhere that show the star Sirius?

- Exemption,
boy, do not understand astronomy.

- Sirius is the brightest star
in the sky.

That's what everybody knows.

- Well, I did not know ... You see, as I am a paddle!

- Not true, but is fine modesty, coupled with the beauty and talent.

-
No, if I know full well that I have no talent.

Do not beat yourself up to tell me.

- Daughter, you express just the opposite ...

The dismissive tone
of Fernanda was entering a bit of bitterness.

In the count's, paused, ceremonious, cautioned slight hint of irony.

-
Come on, then you have understood backwards.

- Some of it has been
forever.

- Wow, what a gallant! - Said the little pale.

- Whenever
you thought you could tell something unpleasant - was quick to rectify
the Earl, warned by the change in appearance of the idea crossed his
mind.

- Thank you.

I believe your words as they deserve.

- You would do wrong not sincere esteem ... Also, I need not tell
you how much you're worth.

That's what everybody knows.

- Thank you.

Are you tired of playing?

- It hurts a little grinding.

- Take it off.

- Are all?

- Those
who hurt you, son.

Ave Maria!

- With what indifference you say!

You do not mind anything, of course?

- I always feel the ills of others.

- The neighbor! What horror!

Was not aware of having already reached the category of neighbor.

- What is it, boy, the honors come when least expected.

In spite of the flippant and even aggressive tone, Fernanda did not move the site, taking always
arm in arm to the friend, who did not open his lips.

By looking a little, might note that the heiress was very nervous. With his foot was tapping on
the floor, clutched in his hand with the tissue contractions alive and his lips trembled so
almost imperceptible. Some Arabs beautiful eyes marked a paler circle than usual. He's interested
in boxing.

The Count de Onis had been of her boyfriends that lasted longer. Appearing Fernanda in society, and even
before, when she was a zagalita the maid was going to school was her figure, elegance and
above all the threat of the six million that were to fall, walking time, in her lap, an explosion
of enthusiasm. There were no more or less handsome young or wealthy on his own initiative or
by the insinuations of his family is not resolved to pasearle the street to meet her at the exit
of the school, to send little notes and compliments tell on the ride. De Sarria, snow and
other towns in the province also attended, under the pretext of the fairs, some greedy. The girl,
boasts with such compliance, drunk with incense, he did not rest point taking and releasing
boyfriends. It was rare that the gallant lasted more than a couple of months in his grace.
In reality none were in a position to deserve it. In Lancia and the rest of the province who
have had their finances provided dowry. If any existed, was not qualified by age to marry so
young bud. Would be some Indian tropical damaged by the heat, or rustic and solitary mayorazgo
those living in their ancestral homes. Without his father warned, the she understood that none
suited him admirably, but he enjoyed flirting with everyone, worship of youth becoming laciense.
Among the latter was, however, a young man to which no city girl had dared to raise his eyes
up with desires then marriage. It was the Count de Onis. Because of its high ranking, most
respected in the provinces where be taxed to the nobility a cult
that reveals the villain and the servant under the coat of bourgeois
with its large income from the apartment of his life and even the
mystery and silence its ancient palace, seemed to dwell in the upper
atmosphere, sheltered from the arrows of all indigenous beauties.

So precisely because he was born in the bosom of Fernanda a desire, first vaguely, then live and
yearning, of surrender. This is very human, and totally feminine needs no explanation. At the
bottom of his soul, the daughter of Rosa Estrada-felt inferior to the Count de Onis. However,
such was the adulation he had heard in some time, as shining the bright scattered about his life
dad money, which might well aspire to make her husband. If you did not think so well, at least figuratively
speaking thought the count, behind, with some disdain and familiarity affected ahead. In Lancia,
as in all small capitals, boys and girls used first-name basis. The known since childhood and have
perhaps played on the tour together authorized it. The Count de Onis had never crossed the floor
with Fernanda, although stumble every moment on the street. However, when they met for the first
time in the party of the de Mere, he gave a beautiful round and deleted your title. Luis here, Luis
beyond: seemed about to eat his name. To him the confidence was a little surprised, not dislike.
No one was hurt tutear heard by a pretty lady. Despite the concentrated nature shy of the count
and his little womanizing, Fernanda he soon contrived to make her boyfriend or at least to make such
a move by the public eye. Who found this dating perfectly justified. In Lancia had another
husband or another woman to Fernanda Count. The distance between them was retrospective, was in the
ancestors. The population believed that, for the sake of beauty, money and education of the
young bright, Count de Onis was in the case of forgetting the two
hundred and farmhands who had preceded them.

About a year lasting relationships. The couple were seen in the gathering of the ladies de Mere.
D. Juan Estrada, Rosa, in the words of his close friends, was very pleased. Several times had
suggested to the county to enter into the house, but he had not understood or had pretended not
to understand him. Fernanda is clearly suggested by one day. He escaped as could compromise. Was
it shyness? Was it pride? The same Fernanda did not realize it. But this book helped rekindle
their affection and longing. Suddenly, when least expected, when the public began to wonder
why the wedding was delayed, those cortáronse relationships. Were cut without scandal, of a
diplomatic and secretive, therefore he did More than a month that did not exist when the population
was not yet aware and friends they were kidding. The fact there was strong feeling, was mentioned
in all gatherings to infinity. Never could figure out what had been, or even which of the two
corresponded the initiative of this break. If you asked the count, said flatly that Fernanda
had left, but went too hard in this statement that did not begin to doubt their sincerity. The
heir-Rosa Estrada, without showing anything in particular, confirmed the words of her boyfriend
with surly tone he used talking about it, as well as to guide word. Because they followed the case,
if not as often, quite: both came to the gathering where they met. In addition, Fernanda, shortly
after, he began attending to the Sunday soirees at the home of Quiñones. But never again resumed
their broken relationships. Attendees suspended breath and put his whole soul into the eyes
if, as Now, former boyfriends encountered and chatted for a while. "Back on track? Will, finally
wedding? The disappointment came immediately to see the indifference with which it departs.

When I went to answer the last words of the proud heir, the Count's eyes, shedding a distracted
gaze around the room, they met others who had stuck into shining
and jealous.

She reached her friend and said with a forced smile:

- How badly are you trying, Fernanda! As always, of course ... I,
however, you know ... the same devoted idolater.

Until now.

- I feel that this devotion does not cause me cold or hot - she replied without taking a step away.

The
count gave him shrugging his shoulders in resignation and saying:

- More I'm sorry!

Sorting dancing partners, who had begun the quadrille, came back to where he was the mistress of
the house. Beside it was at that moment the famous Manuel Antonio, a of the most noteworthy
at the time that we historian. He was known thus the nickname the fag Sierra as its name.

This
is enough to know somewhat what to expect regarding their moral properties and physical. Manuel
Antonio was not young. Frisaría in fifty years, disguised with effort heroic by any battery known
then Lancia cosmetics, which were not many do very refined. A rudimentary wig, some false teeth
fitted incorrectly, a little black on the eyebrows and lipstick, much patchouli and a fancy dress
appropriate to highlight the waste of her beauty. It had been wonderful, a rare perfection of face
and figure. Tall, slim, slim, good features, tiny, blonde hair, fine, falling into graceful
curls, rosy cheeks and high-pitched voice. From this set gorgeous was only a shadow where he could
guess. The back was arched upright; the beautiful curls were gone like a happy dream, some unseemly
wrinkles that furrowed forehead, and the row of pearls, which he held his mouth, had become yellow
bone race, rickety, that time and the dentist was inducted awkwardly replaced. Finally, the
small silky mustache had thickened considerably, it was white bristly, unruly, not enough
dye and cosmetics to keep presentable.

What a pain to the beautiful hermaphrodite Lancia and also for friends who had known him in
the glory of his grace!

The spirit remained as young as ten and eight years. It was the same to be passionate and tender,
sweet at times, angry and terrible other, marching to the breath of his whims, languid living in
idleness. Both enjoyed the delights of the bath, which he repeated three or more times until the
water is crystal clear as to leave the source, loved flowers, birds, he had more pleasure
than talking to the mirror glass ornaments that would suit better. The costumes, by irresistible
attraction, being male, approached as possible to the female form. In short talmita spent
the winter with a gold brooch and a hat Tyrolean twisty wings, which suited him extremely well. In
the summer he liked to dress white flannel suits well tight, who denounced the graceful curves
of their forms. Ties were almost always made of gauze, low-cut shoes, the shirt collar with
seafood. Below fist saw him a bracelet. Although there were more than a simple gold ring, this detail
was what attracted the attention of their fellow citizens.

As spoken Manuel Antonio left the damn bracelet to light, as if there was nothing in his interesting
figure worthy to excite curiosity.

But if the years had not been changed in the bottom one being kind and created for love habíanle
fact, however, more cautious, more reserved. And showed no preference with the ingenuity of
the past, or give vent to the sudden outbursts of his heart flammable but after testing the
loyalty of the object of their affection. He had suffered many disappointments in life! Above
all, getting old, not only experienced the coldness of old friends, those who had given clear
evidence of affection, but, is even sadder, he found, without thinking, white serving and invectives
at chufletas the lads of the new generation. It was the laughingstock of these insolent youth. As
had not witnessed their triumphs and met her radiant beauty, were far from professing respect
that, despite everything, he kept to the old generation. They did not spare tease average of
vex him savagely. As he stood in the street Altavilla or entered the cafe of Maranhao, and was
surrounded by a party of jokers. Christ, phrases could be heard there! And as villains who were often
passing game of words to hands. This was what I could in no way suffer Manuel Antonio. They speak
what they want. Had enough belt, plus a lively and subtle wit admirably collected ridicule and knew
he hit his face with his opponents. Most of the time they were going to "take hair "shorn went
very well. The years, the practice had been trained so In boxing incisive phrases that really
was awesome. Had the intention of a Miura. But so those shameless passed from words to works
by touching the face or pinching, and was broken, completely lost his temper and not say anything intentional
even reasonable. Superfluous to add that, knowing the skinny, all the jokes ended in this way.

Moreover, out of that evil intent to injure as people living in the which could compete and still
believe that was ahead of Maria Josefa, was a useful and helpful. Malignancy, after all, was
the result of which he showed him. Their skills many and various. Working point of giving glory
crochet. The quilts that he did not Lancia had rival. An altar and arranged the pictures better
dressed than any sacristan. Upholstered furniture, exquisite flowers made of wax, papering rooms,
embroidered with hair, painted plates. And when one of his many friends needed for Hair Design
attend any dance, Manuel Antonio gallantly lent fix their hair and did so with the same skill
and taste the best hairdresser in Madrid. Why, and when any of his friends got sick? Then it
was to see the interest, perseverance and the utmost diligence of our old Narciso. It was immediately
to the bedside, taking account of medicines, arreglábale bed poníale blisters or aid the same as more
skilled practitioner. Then, if the disease unfortunately had a bad temper, I knew as anyone suggest
the idea of ​​confession so that the patient, instead of panicking, accept it as natural and
ordinary thing. And as he looked confident, began to make arrangements to receive His Divine
Majesty: the lady to get more seasoned people principal in their classrooms would bring him
no advantage. The small altar crowded with starched cloth of glittering gizmos, the staircase
decorated with potted plants, floor carpet of leaves Rose, servants and relatives waiting at
the gate with lighted torches and gloved. No he forgot one detail. At this critical moment the
queen of Sierra thrived, adopted the continent of a general leading his troops. All obeyed
him and seconded by abiding by per head. For if the patient was dying, I must not say that his
dictatorship was still more powerful. Beginning with shrouding the body and ending with out of
court the death certificate, nothing remained in the funeral ceremonies that he did not bully.

And
since most of the time was sick to care for, or pictures that dress, or friends to comb or
flowers that counterfeit, Manuel Antonio spent his life very busy. In this and go from house
to house taking and releasing news is slipping day and age.

Lived two sisters older than him, which he guarded and pampered like a child. For these Ladies
good time did not exist. Nor were the wrinkles, no wig, no false teeth of his brother. Manuel
Antonio was always a chick, a dude. Their costumes, bathrooms, the hours used in the hit they were
smiling with benevolence. While they complained bitterly about the damage that the years were caused
by him and his health, thought that his brother had stopped the course of hours, had found an elixir
to keep forever young.

Manuel Antonio was methodical in his visits. There were a few houses which he attended daily and always
at the same time. A house of D. Juan Estrada, Rosa was at three, when coffee; the Countess de
Onís took chocolate every evening, at night was a regular Tertullian
Madame de Quiñones.

There were other families who also visited frequently. A Josefa María Hevia House and Matthew used to
go in the morning, without stopping a lot, giving around to find out what was said or inspect
their work. One night was also home of the Misses de Mere.

- Here is the count! - Exclaimed with his peculiar intonation effeminate .-- Oh, what condecito
such a joker!

- Why? "- Said this approach.

- Just ask Amalia.

The smile that noble folded lips suddenly vanished.

- How? ... What has to do ?...-- said with ill-concealed embarrassment.

Amalia

also was troubled. Her pale cheeks were stained.

- We have been whispering about you.

What have you cut suit, boy!

- Here Manuel Antonio - Amalia uttered - said you were the dog in
the manger.

- No, you were who you said.

Another peculiarity of this was the tutear everyone, young and old, ladies and gentlemen.

- Yo! - Exclaimed the lady.

- Why I am a dog in the manger?

... Let us know.

- For Amalia said that neither wanted to eat the flesh and allow the
point D. Santos.

- Vamos!

Will you shut up, you liar? - Said the lady, half angry, half laughing,
giving a pinch.

- What we talk about D. Santos? - Asked a gentleman
very short and very broad, chubby face and purple, approaching the
group.

The Count and Amalia did not know what to say.

- It said that D. Santos had planned to take a day to its possession of the Castañeda and give
us a banquet - Manuel Antonio said confidently.

- No, it was not that - "said the stocky man with a forced smile.

- Yes this. Amalia argued that you could not lead us to spend a day at the Castro.

- But, man, you've committed to get you red today! - Said it.

- Because I'm a good friend. As I see pale these days ... Well you can believe it, Santos, I I have
a much better idea of ​​your splendor that most of the people ... D. You do not know either
Santos, I often say to those who argue that it hurts you spend the money. If D. Santos not
spend, no treats its friends, not by greed but by laziness, because not presented occasion. The
man is shy of him and can not propose Facilities or tour, but someone else to point the idea,
and see how gladly accepts ...

- Thanks, thanks, Manuel Antonio - whisper D. Santos with the laughter of the rabbit.

He knew the great fear and distress that was upon him. Like many of the Indians, in spite to be
immensely rich, was known as greedy, and not unjustified. He had arrived a few years ago in
Cuba, where the first loading boxes of sugar and then selling enriched. Made a Bedouin came without
any news of what was happening in the world, not knowing greet, nor uttered a dozen words correctly,
or even walk like other men. The thirty years he spent behind a desk had numb legs. Going staggering
like a drunkard. The color in his cheeks was so characteristic, that Lancia, where few people escaped
without a nickname, he was appointed shortly after arriving the Garnet. In the midst of his
misery he liked to give to the face with the wealth he possessed. Suntuosísima built a house,
brought marble from Carrara, Barcelona decorators, furniture Paris,
etc. And yet, notwithstanding the large sums spent therein, to pay
the clove account was determined to be discounted weight paper and
strings coming wrapped the ends in Paris!

Had been carefully keeping in a corner such offal for that purpose. So ended the house, occupied
the main floor and rent the other two. Y began his martyrdom, a slow and terrible martyrdom. The
servants and children of the second and third were their executioners. If he felt the second mop
floors, put in a bad mood: sand wore the floorboards. If I saw stucco lined the staircase by the hand
of a barbarian boy, he kindled the anger and mutter ominous words and death threats. If heard
a door shut with violence, the blow reverberated painfully in his heart unraveled hinges, latches
all spoiled. Finally, with such a start lived, that he fell into a passion of mind and began
to decline noticeably. As a friend miserable like him, but vivant, advised him to leave the
house and move to another. So he did, turning the inn that had housed the palace built while.

But
missing from D. Santos required complement of all the profiteers loading boxes sugar in America
lacked marry a woman of class, young or old, ugly or pretty. None of his colleagues agreed
to never marry a craftswoman. Garnet could not be less than that. On the contrary, having more
money than anyone, it is natural for them to take advantage in powerful cravings. It was put round
eyes and bitter in the most beautiful girl, swanky richer and the city: Fernanda Estrada-Rosa no
less. The event caused admiration and laughter in the neighborhood.
Very high Lancia idea that they had the power of money, no one imagined
it was powerful to make such an undertaking. Casar to the jewel the
province with the red bear! The girl gave her astonishment and indignation.
Then he took a joke. Then again outraged. Then turned to laugh. Finally
became accustomed to Maroon to the festivities and even found some
self-satisfaction in receiving your attentions and give all kinds
of contempt. But he did not let up. With the tenacity of the bumblebee
that resolves to get a glass a hundred times and crashes against the
barrier, pumpkins, disdain and even ridicule did not go back more
than momentarily. The next day again as if nothing to break his head
against the contempt of the proud heir. 

They are not hateful or scratch even in exaggerated comic cartoon characters in action involved.
All make you laugh, even more children of the observation of a fantasy humorous and joyful.
Their talks would say they were taken by the phonograph, the phonograph if had the rare ability
to throw heavy and intrusive and retain only sobriety enviable what does not tire, which portrays the
characters and what drives and contributes to final outcome.

The action has nothing complicated, however, first aroused curiosity, interested then and finally deeply
moved.

Among the festive and sad, between comedy and tragedy in this novel, as in reality, almost no
intermediate, but the absolute lack of involvement in the narrator worth more than contrived detours
to avoid the transition is abrupt, and that events unfortunate and
the consequent change of tone produced dissonance.

The noble and excellent gentleman D. Alvaro, a widower with two twin daughters are named those
of the patron saints of Seville, Justa and Rufina, comes to rubble to spend the season summer
and to replace his very ill health. Boyfriend is just a cousin Gongora named Paco, who is deeply
in love with her. Paco, no moral sense and Lightweight sick character, is committed to his
cousin, not realizing that in fact not love her. And although neither love with true love Rufina
Justa's sister, talk and flirts with her, and insensibly, as if they were slipping and falling
down a slope Gently traitor, Paco is unfaithful to Justa y Rufina
becomes cruel and victorious rival of his sister.

With no little talent as a novelist and using several funny episodes
that everyone attend action, Paco and Rufina warn later the grave
offense that make Fair and D. Alvaro by the bond of love that, taunting
and mocking secretly have become entangled.

New lovers fear being caught and no courage to confess his duplicity
and face the wrath of the father and sister so severely offended.

Then take the worst and most vicious of the resolutions. Both run away together.

D. Alvaro, who idolized her two daughters and was very sick, she can not blow so rude. Falls
exhausted, aggravated their woes and death ensues.

The beautiful character of the local priest shines in the poignant
scene in the holy words, eloquent without art by religious faith and
charity that inspired that persuade the dying man to forgive the guilty,
and how he comforted and illuminated with heavenly hopes the last
moments of mortal life.

The epilogue of the novel is also very moral, very religious and very
tender.

Fair, transformed a sister of Charity receives Rufina has been rushing to the depths of depravity
and vice, cares for her and forgives her generous and holy.

Critics of Seville, to give Mr. Muñoz y Pabón founded praise, you are qualified to disciple and
imitator or follower of Fernan Caballero. I will not deny me the works of such famous She may have
served to encourage the talent of the elder novelist, but are such differences between written by
him and written by the ingenious daughter Bohl de Faber, can not assert or assume that imitation
both authors belong to the same school. Well seen and observed Fernan Caballero uses, customs and
passions of the people Andalusia, but I felt everything and then it represented the stranger
through a prism. Their culture, rather than books castizos was modern books, English, French
and German and this was reflected in the characters children of his observation and inventiveness.
Them and in sets and events that are, I think I notice a hit and exotic sentimentality that it is
unusual among us: it is less Andalusian Dutchman.

In contrast, in the novel Mr. Muñoz Pabón everything is Andalusian and nothing really hybrid: the
substance and form, passions and language that expresses them.

As Mr. Muñoz Pabón is still young, we are pleased to expect no less seasoned wit and abundant
fruit.

Like many authors, in all countries and especially in Spain, Mr. Muñoz Pabón began writing verse
before writing in prose. From his works in verse know only I was a little book published in
1899, which in my mind reading produces very mixed effects. On the one hand confirms in me the
idea that Mr. Muñoz y Pabón has uncommon skills writer and poet, while on the other hand,
I presume that moved the author for his great religious piety, perhaps on Candida, unthinking,
taken for a matter of their songs or rather tell their stories in romances, and it is a romance,
something in my opinion extremely delicate and ocasionadísimo to infractions. The Ballad is entitled
The Child Nazareth. I do not think anything in this book is taken or copied from the apocryphal
Gospel of Jesus' childhood. Everything is clearly invented by the author. But to what point
is well compose something like a novel with mock events, no matter how credible they are, life
earthly incarnate Word, whose glory appeared to men, as the glory of her Son the Father, full of grace
and truth? Is it not a matter cut too high entering in vulgar details and realistic? The Virgin
Mary sewing, washing and taking care of the house; San Jose working in his workshop and the
Baby Jesus by going to the source water pitcher shoulder or other
necessities like that, or playing games with young children of age,
are quite difficult to be represented with the appropriate decorum.

Whom such This stuff is exposed, much to his chagrin, to tarnish the propriety and offend the
majesty of divine things.

Heterodox writers reckless or wicked or just anything, so dangerous abused genre of entertaining
literature in recent years. Which is more than a novel, yet so do not call, Life of Jesus by
Ernest Renan? The Lady Mary Corelli, has not recently written a novel whose amorous entanglements
and fit and fit, so to speak, in the passion and death of our divine Redeemer? Even in the
epics that are based on such supernatural events exposed the poet, eminent, to go into details that
provoke derision of unbelievers and that hurt the veneration of believers. What can not be said
of Jerome life and even of Klopstock? Also a compatriot of Mr. Muñoz Pabón, Seville Diego
de Ojeda, wrote a beautiful poem about the death and passion of Christ, but nothing Hojeda
invents and adds to the essentials of the events that the Gospels relate. Activity your imagination
is used only in the allegorical, symbolic and otherworldly. Very different is the manner in
which the ballads of the Child of Nazareth is made, which are attributed
to Jesus All very laudable actions, but have no historical basis and
that dwarf the concept of the Messiah rather than enhance it.

Age of greater faith in the age in which we live, there was little danger of mixing innocent fictions
with the truth more or less discreet. On the day it is and we should not fuel to keep writing
novels is that Christ, St. Joseph and the Virgin and the apostles are actors, if not the choir or
comparsa relatively insignificant action for world history, as it
occurs in otherwise well written and very famous novel titled "Quo
Vadis?

When the actor feigned cases is the same Christ, Son of God, the danger is over clear. What
attributed to Salvador actions not found in any authentic document? How can any man imagine not
accurately represent the development and grow a soul and a human body, closely united with God
himself in person the Word? It is clear that Mr. Muñoz y Pabón invents nothing unseemly or offensive,
such as for instance, that someone has attempted recently in Germany prove that Christ was studying
in a college or Institute can not remember which city of India, but still despite what the Catholic
innocent and invented by Mr. Pabón, it is best not taken for granted, but by mere symbol, allegory
and foreshadowing of real events that occurred later. I agree that this can excuse the facts stated
in the ballads of the Child of Nazareth where the conversation with the Samaritan woman, the raising
of Lazarus, the forgiveness of the adulterous woman and other passages of the Holy Gospels are
read and written in narrative prefigured child and as personal reading for children. So can
apologize and perhaps applauded by the naive some details of customs that I do not know if
they are outdated or not are, in my limited knowledge in archeology. For example, if the kids
at the time of Christ, resident in Nazareth, and playing hide and seek, to jump rope and grub
like children now. Candor is that you can do funny. I find it funny, in the poem of San Jose
del Padre Fray Jose de Valdivielso, that suspicion of the saint Carpenter was just a hobby, for
being such an illustrious lineage nobleman was not possible who won a living working with his
hands, instead of living of their income,

    
    Then he must have had actual juros, What descendant of such gentlemen.

What will not prevent exposure to acknowledge the remarkable poetic talent of Mr. Muñoz and
Pabon, the cool freshness, light and color that puts into his paintings
and enthusiastic passion that animates them.

Perhaps the disadvantages I see in the genre are not for children
or for readers of great faith and little malice.

II

Much goes on whether or not administrative centralization and grades of autonomy that they
should enjoy the province and the municipality. Tough questions are those that I leave happy for the
resolution of the bustling hive of politicians and state orate both in Spain and agitated. What
worries me is the centralization that comes individual initiative and the effort we all usually
have to live in the capital and to leave the camps, villages and even cities that do not consider
of great importance.

If all that is flowery, wealthy and elegant, comes to Madrid to show off and if they go too
to Madrid in search of fame and fortune, subjects who are wealthy or who are believed to know
and wit, big fear is that the land area of ​​our country is as neglected and abandoned that
glitters, promotes class welfare and contributes to the culture.

In other European countries, the barons and large landowners, attended by more time in cut
into their houses and castles. Here just want anyone to leave the capital, except in the rigor
of the summer, and then, usually not to visit rural lands and direct or attend agricultural
tasks, but to go to France or other foreign countries to pass over there spend their time
and finances.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, you may do suspect that refocuses in Madrid as bright and assets
of our nation, it is certain that persist large pockets of light and activity in our provinces,
and therefore we can not but rejoice that we as supporters of this
innocent and peaceful regionalism.

The former shows the solemn pomp of some religious festivals, exhibitions industry to modern usage,
the resurrected games floral Catholic congresses, conferences and even some other ultra-political,
by dint to deny that they are political, as well as passionate and eloquent sermons people seeking
to regenerate, all this is useful to preserve and revive the life in the extreme preventing
flow back to the center and leave the rest inert.

Only one problem do not cut: that such sermons regenerative hull lift
people rebellious and fond of living hand to mouth, and produce disturbances,
riots and even civil wars.

But if this danger is avoided or plot, I understand that everything is well, but always preferred
the preaching regenerating floral games, the processions and fairs.

Anyway good news is that we encourage as far as our power, and celebrate,
if deserve it, those who cultivate letters, staying in provinces without
coming to Madrid In order to become famous.

Sevilla, since ancient times, is a center of civilization castiza, whose light, that is not
extinguished or blight. His school of poets and painters school, and bright flowering in the sixteenth
century, and renovated in the last third of the eighteenth century, they sparkle still, Despite the
general decline of our nation.

Disto much I suck in these articles, which can not be extended, to submit a picture motion full
intellectual, literary and artistic city of Seville and other cities Andalusia. I limit myself,
and I must limit myself to try some very recent works, test, I feel that this movement is not
sterile, but in that same land produces seasoned fruits, regardless of Andalusian farmers who
come to Madrid, as the Alvarez Quintero and not a few others, to produce and exhibit.

Time has it's brilliant evidence of intellectual activity in the province of Cordoba poetic
production of Manuel Reina, born in Puente Genil, where ordinarily resides, but books printed
in Madrid. Elegant and inspired poet, has published Errant and cheerful Stickers and watercolors,
restless life, The song of the stars, Pagan Poems, in 1896, and recently, in 1899, The Garden
of the poets, the last book of his that we know. Celebrate in this book portrays traits, often
happy, several eminent poets of all ages and nations: from Homer, Anacreon, Aeschylus and
Catullus to Goethe among strangers, and from Jorge Manrique to Espronceda among themselves.
While in Spain, do not know why, estimates are not very popular and
free verse heroic verse, I sometimes prefer to subject to the artifice
of rhyme, when the lack of it is offset by the excellence and simplicity
of diction and musical cadence meter.

The rhyme also have serious drawbacks when to overcome their difficulty, are used above epithets
and participles in "bear, bear, body and face, and ada ado." Either way, this book The garden
of the poets I find better and more spirited, inspired and concise that rhymed, what is in hendecasyllables
free.

But Manuel Reina, where you consent to the coldness and indifference to the poetry of our Today's
public is already well known, esteemed and celebrated, I consider unhelpful and exposed to tilde
I presumptuous to call attention to his writings with careful consideration
and reasoned criticism.

Suffice to state here in all sincerity, that Manuel Reina is already, in my see, one of our
finest poets, and as is still young, he should expect much higher successes, if polished, lime
and fits and adjusts forward more firmly within the appropriate and
clear way, the beautiful ideas and the deep feeling that with such
force and abundance pouring your spirit.

Let us try things here that although a lot less important, say that the ingenuity and grace,
which we call Andalusian charm, has not dissolved yet, but persists, despite so many sorrows,
losses and vexations.

A Season with the salt handfuls Mr. Don Francisco Toro Luna, something like a comedy, which title
is Happy Day!, which was performed in Cordoba in Circus Theatre and Great Captain July this year. Only
two characters appear in the action, which is very simple. All credit is in the dialogue, natural,
funny and relaxed. First there is the monologue a girl and then the conversation of this with a
cousin who eventually declared fervently love with her. I do not want to have here the progress
of the action and sneaky trick that merges with the ingenuity and by means of which reaches
the most fortunate and happy outcome. If I relate the plot would destroy all the charm of the work do
not have much extension because in the work, words do not rejoice, be it the character of the protagonist
as genuine, friendly and rejoiced, the Córdoba my countrywomen can not ask for more, despite spicy
than some very slight stinging satire.

In sum, I believe that happy day! would applauded in Madrid, if Lara is give, but as I am not
infallible, as the public is capricious, and by reading may be noticed that the representation
beauties fade or pass unnoticed, I refrain from predicting in order not to discredit a critic.
I'll just say Happy Day! I like it as much as any of the most praised and short sayings Alfredo
de Muset: as a whim, for example.
About Happy Day!, Like the novel Justa and Rufina, I want to touch
a point both works the same: the adulteration of spelling to play
graphically how to pronounce the Andalusians. In my view this does
not print the essential character dialogue and makes it fun and funny,
and tend, instead, to create a new dialect, or rather barbaric and
report language. Cervantes makes people talk meanest unmarked Andalucía
the cycle of the pronunciation in writing. 

And yet we also understood that once, before the Incas reigned in many provinces went as wild men,
and some went out to war is to give to others, and ate as now make the province their weapon
and other regions, and after Incas reigned as people who had great reason and holy and righteous
customs and laws, not only they did not eat this dish, because many have been and it is estimated
but they stood to remove this custom with them that they tried, and in such a way that soon
completely forgot and threw herself, in all his dominion, which was so great ate and not many
years previously. Those that now have happened, it will show that came notable benefit of
the Incas, not to imitate them their past eating aquesta delicacy the sacrifices of men and
boys.

Published each other, - still, perhaps, any one of those who presto escriptor throws write it
- they killed, there were days of festivals, mill mill or two more children and Indians, and
this and other things bear witness that we wake up to these Spanish Indians, meaning that treats
these things count, cover up our mistakes and justify higher the ill treatment that we have received
any. That I do not sacrificed and that no Matavan men and children in such sacrifices, but not
what is said or far. Animals and their livestock killed, but human creatures less than I thought,
and tired, second tell instead.

So, I have learned from the dried old said that these Incas were cleaned in this sin, and not
using other bad habits of eating human flesh, or walk wrapped in public services, nor were messy,
before they were corrected to himself. And if God allowed to have chripstiandad who with zeal,
not greed branch, in the past give them a complete picture of our holy religion, people in whom
it was printed, SECOND so that now we see the good order that there is work. But let what
has been Indeed, God, Quel know why, and what is done from now on, we implore give your grace,
to pay something to people that both we and how little we offended to have been disturbed by
us, while Peru and many other leagues Indies d'Spain, and many seas in the middle.

As the city of Cuzco was the principal of all Peru, and she resided
most of time the kings had in the same city many of the principals
of people who were between all the more astute and prudent, for its
directors, for they all say, that before attempt any thing and important,
such as communicating with these, an associate their views the most
votes, and for the governorship of the city and the roads were safe
and nowhere is hiciesen no insults or thefts of the most famous [79]
dest, They were always appointed to punish those who were ill, and
for this, were always much everywhere.

So they understood the Incas in providing justice, none dared to do mischief or theft. This
is understood as respect to those who facts walked thieves or forcing women, or conspired against
the king, because otherwise many provinces hobo who had their wars with each other, and all could
not the Apartallos Incas in them. "

In the river that runs next to Cuzco to justice those who were lit there or to another prisoners
wore part, to where they cut their heads and gave them death in other ways even as they were
pleased. The riots and conspiracies punished a lot, and more than all, which were already taken
by thieves and such, the children and women of whom were aviltados and counted to income between
themselves.

In natural things achieved much these Indians, and the movement of
the sun as that of the moon, and some Indians said there were four
big skies, and all claim that the seat and chair of the great Maker
of the world God is in heaven.

I often ask them if quel reach World has to end, laugh, and know little about it, and if something
you know is quel what God allows Satan to tell them. Everyone called Pacha, knowing the back
quel sun does, and the waxing and waning of the moon. It counted the year, which called wadding,
and do a dozen moons, taking account of it, and used for turrets small, that now are many of the
hills of Cuzco something kept [80] for the quel sun to shade them,
fields and understand what they understand more about it.

And these Incas looked a lot in the sky and the signals, which will also be hung them as great
soothsayers. When the stars are, there is great and the screams that make flutter to each other
have.

Concluded with some things for my purpose agree to write, then return with grand soon to tell
the sequence of the hobo kings to Huascar, and now I that the great, rich and highly appointed
Curicancha temple, which was the main all these realms.

And among the Indian public, being the temple as old as the same city of Cuzco; most of Inca Yupanqui,
the son of Viracocha Inca, the accrescent in wealth and stopped as chrisptianos was when entered
in Peru, and most of the treasure was taken to Caxamarca in Atahualpa ransom, and say instead.
And they say the apricots, which after have happened had the dubious
war that the citizens of Cuzco with Chance, agora are lords of the
province of Andahuaylas, which as of that victory that treats were
Inca Yupanqui stay such an esteemed and appointed lords from all over
flocked to serve him, great service by asking the provinces metals
gold and silver, because, in those times, had great miners and delicious
grains, and finding herself so rich and powerful, remembered ennoble
the Casa del Sol, - which in their language called Indeguaxi [Intihuasi],
and by another name Curicancha called it, which means golden fence
- and acrecentalla with wealth.

And that all who see or read this to know how rich freshly temple was the hobo in Cuzco and the
value of those who built and he did such great things, porn here memory, second I saw and heard
to many early chripstianos who heard the three [81] who came from Cajamarca, that [he] had seen,
though the Indians have both dello and so true, that there is no
need another probanza.

Circuit had this house in more than four steps, all surrounded by a strong wall, carved stonework
around the building very good with fine stone very well placed and established, and some stones
were very large and soperbias, they had no land or mixture of lime, but the bitumen they tend
Hazer their buildings and are so well carved these stones which seems not mix or join any.
The stone seemed to be something dark and rough and most excellent [83]. There were many doors,
and covers very well made; to mean [84] Wall, a band of gold than two feet wide and four fingers
of altor. The covers and doors were plated plates of this metal. Further inside four houses
were not large carved in this way, and the walls inside and outside plated with gold, and do
the same woodwork, and coverage straw was served by tile. There were two seats on that wall,
where the sun shone in dating, and the stones were carved and placed in Sotil holes many stones
precious emeralds. In these seats sat the kings, and if one did so, he was worth death.

At the doors of these houses were put goalkeepers who had charge of looking for virgins, there
were many daughters of lords, the most beautiful and betting that
they could find; and were in the temple to be old, and if any had
knowledge with men, killed or the burying alive, and do the same they
made to him.

These women were called virgins, did not understand weaving in and paint over wool clothing temple
service and making chicha, which is the wine making, that had always filled with large jars.

In
one of these houses, which was the richest, was the figure of the sun, big, made of gold, wrought
very first, engastonada many precious stones, and were in it some of packages of the past who
had reigned Incas in Cuzco, with a great many treasures.

A radius of this temple were many small dwellings for Indians questa Members service, and there
was a cercuito where he brought the white sheep and children and men sacrificed. They had a garden
that the lumps were pieces of gold, and was artificially planted with corn, which were [of] gold,
and the cane dello like leaves and pods; and were so firmly planted, although strong winds
hiciesen not ripped. Without all it had made more than twenty gold sheep with their lambs, and the
shepherds with their slings and staffs, who guarded, made this metal. There were lots of jars
of gold and Silver and emeralds, glasses, pots and all kinds of vessels,
all of fine gold.

On the other walls had carved and painted some bigger things. Anyway, it was one of the richest
temples there in the world.

The high priest, called Vilaoma [Villac Umu], had his abode in the temple, and priests to the ordinary
sacrifices with great superstition, according to its usual. A holiday he was the Inca general
were present at sacrifice, and they made great feasts.

There were inside the house and barns temple thirty silver, which blew the corn and This temple
had many provinces who contributed to their service charges. In some Demon Days was seen by the
priests, and gave answers vain and that conformed to the it was intended.

Many other things could be said of this temple, he left, because I think I said enough so that
they understand how big thing was, because I try not Argenteria, beads, feathers gold and other things,
that if written, would not be believed. And what I have said, even chripstianos living who saw
most of them, who took to the rescue Caxamaca in Atahualpa, but much is hidden by the Indians
and lost and buried. Although all Incas had adorned the temple, in time of Inca Yupanqui was increased
so that when he died and Tupac Inca his son, hobo empire, was in this perfects.

Many temples were the hobo in this kingdom of Peru, and some are very old because they were
founded before, with many times the Inca reigned, and in the mountain
range the high, as in the mountain range (and) of the plains, and
reigning Inca, were built again many others where they made their
parties and sacrifices.

And why make mention the temples that were in each province in particular, would be something very
long and tedious, determined In counting only those who had at most eminent and leading. And so
I say that after Curicancha temple, was the second guaca of the hill Guanacaure Incas, is
in sight of the city, and was frequented by them and honored by what some quel say brother
of the first Inca was converted in the place of stone, while that came out of Pacaritambo [Pacárec
Tampu], as initially counted. And in this mountain had formerly oracle where the damn devil
speaking, and was buried at the large round sum of treasure, and
some days they sacrificed men and women, to whom, before they were
slaughter, they made them understand that priests had to go to serve
[to] the God who worshiped there, back in the glory that they pretended
they had with their ravings, and so, holding certainly those who were
to be slaughtered, the men became very Galanos and dressed with fine
wool garments and gold llaut, and patens, and bracelets, and oxotas
with gold belts, and after having heard the parliament of the priests
liars they made them, gave them to drink plenty of chicha with great
vessels of gold and solenizaban [with] sacrifice songs, publishing
them, which, to serve their gods, they offered their lives in such
a way, having as happy reprime death instead.

And having good lament these things, were drowned by the ministers, and placed on their shoulders
quipes [85] gold and Jarrilla of the same material in hand, buried them round to the oracle in
their graves. And to those canonized saints such had for each other, believing that they were
undoubtedly in the sky serving his Guanacaure. Women also were dressed sacrificed with their
fine clothes richly colored and feathered, and golden moles, and spoons, and bowls and dishes,
all of gold, and well dressed, well after they have drunk, were drowned and buried, believing
them and those who killed, who were to serve his devil or Guanacaure.

And hacíanse great dances and songs, when they made such sacrifices quest. Had This idol, which
was the oracle, with its chácaras, yanaconas, and cattle, and virgins, and priests who took
advantage of the most dello.

The third oracle huaca of the Incas was the temple of Vilcanota, well-appointed in these kingdoms, and
to where, allowing it to our Lord and God, the Devil had great times to big mouth and spoke
for the false priests that serve the idols in it were. And there was this temple Vilcanota little more
than twenty leagues from Cuzco, near the village of Chungara; and was highly revered and respected
and offered many gifts and presents, and by the Incas and gentlemen, for the rich men of the counties
[of] which came to sacrifice, and had their priests and virgins and fields, and almost every year
were made in this temple offerings the capacocha, which is what I will say then. Large dabase
credit to what the devil said for your answers, and at times, they made great sacrifices of
birds and cattle and other animals.

The fourth temple estimated and frequented by the Incas and natives of the provinces, was the
guaca of Ancocagua, where we also had very ancient oracle held in high veneration. Was stuck
with the province of Hatun Cana, and at times ranging from many parties, with great reverence
this demon to hear their responses vain, and had it grand sum of treasures, because Incas and
everyone else put them there. And also it is said that without the many animals sacrificed to
the devil, that they had for God, to do the same for some Indians and Indian as well as told
that was used in the Guanacaure hill. And in this temple hobiese wealth is being said, tiénese
for truth, because after the Spanish have won the Cuzco over three years, and the priests and chiefs
have raised the great treasures all these temples had, I heard that a Spanish named Diego Rodríguez
Elemosin (so) guaca Desta took more than thirty thousand pesos of gold, and this has found
no more, and still There is news of the buried an immense quantity of silver and gold in parts
that no one know, if God does not and never will be taken if it were not for luck or chance.

Without these temples, they had another by such an esteemed and popular as them, and more, who
had by name the Coropuna, which is in the province of Condesuyo,
in a very big hill covered continues to the winter snow and summer
does not go away ever.

And the kings of Peru most major visited this temple, making offerings and to present and
those already these, and tiénese very certain, that the gifts and capacocha that this temple
was made, there were many loads of gold and silver and jewels buried in parts dello not known, and
Indians hid another large sum was to service the idol and priests and virgins, who also had a lot of
the temple [86], and as there is so great snow, do not rise to the top, not managing to know
where they are so great treasures. Many cattle had this temple and Chaco Indians and mamaconas
service. It always had people from many parts, and the devil was speaking here more loosely
than in the oracles said, because he was unceasingly mill answers, and not in time, like the
others. And even now at this time, by some secret God is said to
walk on that side visibly hell, that the Indians would come and Dell
Receives grand fear.

And to chrisptianos I heard that I have seen in figure mesmos Indian and appearing to and desaparecérseles
in short time. Sometimes sacrificed much of this prophecy, and so they killed many cattle and poultry,
and some men and women.

Without these oracles, had that of Aperahua, where by a tree Troncon replied Oracle, which
was found near him much gold, and that of Pachacamac, the Yuncas approaches, and many others,
and in the region of Andesuyo, as in that of Chincha and Omasuyo, and other parts of this kingdom,
from which I could say more, but, as I said it in the first part [87], which deals with the
foundations, I will not desto rather than the oracles, which had more devotion all the Incas
with other nations, sacrificed some men and women and many cattle, and to where there was
this credit, no human blood was not killed men, but they offered gold and silver. At guacas
who had less, they were like shrines, they offered beads and feathers and other small things
of little value.

I say this because the opinion The Spanish have to say that in every temple they sacrificed
men, is false; and this is the truth according to what I caught, without pulling or put more
of what I understood and for me I have indeed.

Here goes well, that is understood, what the Capaccocha, respect for all was the service of the
temples and these and other, and by news that has old Indian they are alive and saw what happened
on this, I'll write what I have understood that it true.
 

There are so many causes which impel them to Isaac to destroy his work, and death occur after
which the reader fails to identify which of them has been the most important, if unsuccessful
that the City has had his speech, if the censors, though severe, not entirely unfounded some of their
artwork, whether the separation of the Philippines, making it almost impossible be paid the monument
to Legazpi, if their great pecuniary distress, and, finally, if the insolent indifference
and disdain of his wife, painted on the novel by a master hand.

The intimate scenes of conjugal love so ragged, one in which her husband asks Marta you buy the
diamonds, and that happens in the garden at night, and in light of the moon are the best and
most clearly shown in Mr. Lasso the sharp talent of observation and
the rare power of expression and playing style to the observed.

The orgy of the council in the former convent, the lively description of the fire, with Calderón's
feat to save the girl, and the famous meeting of the council with all its details, and not a
few other episodes, are well observed and described, but complicates the action by giving various
reasons, each of which weakens the other rather than increase it. The reader asks: "Isaac had
committed suicide if it collects the money the monument to Legazpi, or had experienced better
with the money the disdain of his wife? If triumphs at City Hall and after the elections of deputies
would not have resigned to live? If the critics had been fair and very kind and had no defect
identified one in his works, extolling without objection, it was not his consolation and left
large thought effective to remove the violentísimo purpose of destroying
what he had done and then kill himself?

In real life, in every true historical event, are often left standing unsolved such doubts, but maybe
in a fiction novel, and when the author gets into the most intimate
the soul of his hero and there sees and searches all such uncertainties
and cloudiness undermine the effectiveness of the composition rather
than increased.

In short, I believe that after read the novel, the reader can not but recognize that Mr. Lasso is
a good novelist, but wishes to accumulate less stuff when you write another novel, and that
it represents human life, without being, or even without, who can
be their figures are true portraits of certain people, without containing
a charge each episode, and without every accusation leads to a defense.

The

nineteenth century has already passed, and we are on the twentieth of what we should be happy
for having passed also mania that spread among the writers, everywhere and for many years,
order to qualify for the rascalities century and evil. This also wanted to give understand
that such rascalities were like the refined product of centuries of effort an exquisite culture
and the sad result of our material progress. Far from being and it is understood that the men
to be bad and scoundrels have no need to live in late century, or very advanced age and society.
Regarding tunantería, known as need to know, and does what needs to be done from the earliest
times.

Not in Gandulia or late nineteenth century where the council are released
only to taste. They saw him enter the house of Estrada-Rosa and even heard the sound of the latch.
Nothing more. Immediately opened wide balconies and filled coffee. The that there was no room
clambered on chairs behind their peers. The book, beautifully printed in Almería, is entitled Quitolis,
and the author, D. Jose Jesus Garcia, will qualify for novels. Novel it seems to me effect,
but candidly told with strange and seemingly with so little art, which has traces, rather
than something imagined or invented, faithful relationship that true and Event have actually
occurred.

The protagonist of the novel, Father John, who gave a nickname Quitolis, has lived without doubt,
but in its being there is plenty of symbolic and enigmatic. Without ambition, without avarice,
without appetite or desire to disturb you and take you in pursuit of earthly things, Father
Juan is like an innocent angel from heaven, who has taken human form and body. Only loving affection
with which she watches her mother and cares for her, she refers uniquely
to others beings.

Father Juan protected by a marquise devout and Mr Master, who admire
and recognize virtue and science, live without trouble, and modestly
with the product of their masses and the special Latin lessons which
gives many children.

There is hardly entangling sets in this novel. It's all psychological. The contemplation of
sky, sea and fields otean from a solitary walk apart and where the
father John is going journal, raises his mind at very lofty areas:
beyond the visible universe, to the supreme cause, which gives being
and fills him, penetrates and illuminates everything.

The prudish shy of Don Juan, the horror that inspired the idea of ​​disturbing the peace conscience
and his love of order and calm, forbid us to perceive or to make
it clear quite clearly the vague and wonderful concept of God, which
has arisen in his soul, that grabs in the ecstasy and the supernatural
and otherworldly love.

The fame of holiness and the innocent and kind indulgence of Don Juan, makes them boys and girls,
educated with the greatest caution, those who come to confession to him, in the tribunal of
penance. The optimism of Don Juan and his happy way to see how exists as through a prism to
pink, come to be corroborated by the goodness of his penitents. Just suspect or suspect's father
wants John the existence of moral evil and physical evil.

The wrath of God is incomprehensible to him. God's justice fades in his infinite mercy.

The feeling and thinking of Father John van unfolding, with great stealth, as intimate secrets of
his soul.

It seems that the author of the novel, like his hero, afraid of what he thinks and feels; does
not have the slightest desire to disclose, and only by blending style and are undecided represents
it to himself.

From here you miss I came to decide to what extent Quitolis and writing its history is in germ a
heretic: the extent to which God has allowed and has also raised
Chanig devil a Fox or a damper on the largely Catholic city of Almeria.

Investigating theologians can say about this, if they believe the case deserves it. I will say
only that the novel I like and that I have read twice, with increasing interest, increased by the
same indefinite vagueness of thought Quitolis mysterious.

The canon, which was to preach on the day of the Virgen del Carmen, falls ill and mandates
Quitolis, whose science and admired religious fervor, it is he who preached that day, although
until then had never preached. Without prior written study comes and goes to the pulpit Quitolis.
And moving there for the genius or spirit that stirs inside him,
delivers a sermon eloquent loving God and neighbor, that delights
and moves the crowd devout, which is not the slightest suspicion or
heresy, and that offends and angers the canons the chapter.

Has anything emerged in the remote town where these events occur a brand reformer of the Church: a
Savonarola, if not a Luther?

"Quitolis', however, does not want to be nothing of this.

If something is wrong, is ready to back down. The bishop acknowledged his innocence and sympathizes
with good intentions. But it induces return to their silence and retirement and not to preach
in the future to not arouse the anger or the anger of the clergy.

Become "Quitolis" the dark, kept in the center of his soul his reformist ideas, fed poorly defined
by the novelist, while or want to be as indecisive or early dawn light, if not a new religion,
a broad interpretation and something that rationalist we officially.

"Quitolis" then goes blind. Its reputation attracts benign saint and his confession, and no children
and virgins, but the fine peat outrageous and lascivious sinners. Cleaning your naive optimism
is stained with the black mud of the world. And resigned and sad, Sweet but always full trust in
God, dies in the end "Quitolis' dies also its old woman and mother
and the novel ends.

Almost nothing in it what is called entanglement or argument. It all comes down to the painting
of a strange character. I do not know if the author, by skill or instinct is right not to
identify with "Quitolis" no longer answer than "Quitolis" felt and thought.

If not make sure I do not welcome this novel, where again there is but few hauls People read
it carefully. I will just say that I was interested to read a lot. I am not, nor pretend to
be, defining to convict or acquit the very ideas that the author evenings attributed the novel's
protagonist, but I welcome the talent of the author's observation
study a human soul, perhaps lost, but egregious and pure, and I am
also feeling encourages religious pages of your book.

    Of the faults that are or may be in it, I absolve the author, because
I have the leeway.

I say, as the God who imagine Goethe in "The Prologue in Heaven"
from his "Faust":

"It IRRT der Mensch so lang er strebt."

LA GOLETERA

BY ARTURO REYES

In the fictional fictions I confess I am somewhat prejudiced against men and women from the
lowest rabble, that fit the buskin, shown possessed of passions and sublime sentiments, and
characters come to be worthy of real tragedies and picaresque adventures not as Rinconetey Cortadillo
or parodies like The Manolo, The Muñuelo, Inesilla the Pinto and Pancho and crust. And not
because I believe that the concept of highest virtues and strong ability to exercise them require
education esmeradísima and long studies. Fortunately for science knowledge is necessary to go
to school or read many books, and to perceive, judge, or create artistic
beauty, without aberrations in bad taste, also requires preparation
and education, while for the knowledge of good and bad, just need
one rack your brains.

    In the Christian society
    and cultured Nowadays, it almost seems infused, the innate or intuitive
knowledge.

We can say with the great playwright:

A science will the study makes them wrong.

And yet, if taken as per system that girls raised in the stream and parishioners infect the most neighborhood
taverns worse, become paragons of honesty, honor, heroic courage, suffering stoic and many are or
may be the moral excellence to beautify the human soul, we may go so far as to imagine that the
superior culture, welfare, cleanliness, elegance and wealth, weaken
the strength and goodness of their hearts, and estimated to be morally
right is necessary to descend to the level closest to the wild from
our refined civilization of the day.

Thus, by dint of wanting to be a Democrat and philanthropist, the writer can fall into the
trap of being reactionary.

There is also in the novels tavern adorned with the finest sublime, a overcome enormous difficulties
and is rarely beaten: combining the language, if not thuggish, vulgar and uneducated, with
an elevated style, suitable to express the finer feelings and nobles. And since this is rarely achieved,
the dialogues are full of mannerism, of falsehood and dissonance. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
as general doctrine, against which I too have sinned, leaving me
the power to write some novels, I am pleased to declare here that
I have come forward to recant and abjure the general doctrine mentioned
reading The Goletera, D. Arturo Reyes.

Advantageously was known and justly celebrated as the young Malaga,
and for its beautiful poetry, for its graceful prose tales, and novels
Cartucherita and The Winery La Viñuela.

His latest book, The Goletera, is, in my opinion, to confirm its reputation as a novelist reaching
for his diploma and title of an excellent writer.

Trini, his heroine, it seems, not by imitation but by coincidence, the lady of Calderon in the
comedy entitled Nothing is as quiet, but Trini is nobler, more loving,
more real and more humane than the lady of Calderon.

Better than she feels, thinks and behaves Trini. Y if by wonderful, Trini is expressed without
convoluted sentences without tiquis Miquis gorgeous, plain speech and a common village woman.

As
the maid of no such thing as silence, Trini has been the victim of violence by a man but, with
equal honesty and sensitivity that the lady, if Trinidad does not grant his love to any other
gallant, was considered dishonorable, it is still far superior to the lady, because he falls
in love another and struggle with his fiery passion and despise those who pretend to love her
and who she is smitten. The Adventures of Trini returns Buenos Aires, where he has spent years
and where he has won enough money. Wants to repair his fault, Trini marrying, but this is not
like the lady Calderon, who accepts the trickster as a husband, because just think of restoring
his honor and because nobody loves. Trina loves another and rejects the deceiver, which does not
inspire love, but disgust.

The man who loves Trini is excellent and very jealous of his honor. Trini does not nor should deceive.
And Trini can not join him, while he lives the man who mocked and under whose eyes would die
of shame.

The cases and sets where the author comes to resolving this conflict can not be imagined or more
naturally presented, credibility, increasing interest and astonishing wit. The lover, loved by Trini mysteriously,
knows that she loves him and knows his disgrace and who been the
cause of it all for an involuntary disclosure of the Trini, which
was decided to shut up, even kill her silence, not to cause a bloody
struggle between the two rivals, both brave and suffered little.

The revelation once made by credible media, arranged with exquisite art, makes conflict inevitable.

The
two rivals take the field and stabbed quarrel. The quarrel is vigorously described. Dies in it
the trickster, who in the last moments and scenes from his life has been generous and friendly.
Thus ends the novel. Although the author does not say, and does not speak well and to finish
where it ends, the reader can assume that, not punished by law, because their said that his
dying rival was another killer, whose black treachery has caused
the quarrel, the Trini lover victor and finally marries her after
having avenged.

Whole story, dialogues ingested it, and the various incidents, which
are omitted here and in a manner so masterly and skilful leading to
the outcome, interest, stir and take over with such a spell of mind
of the reader, which surely will not leave the book until I just read.

THE EXEMPLARY NOVELS OF CERVANTES

BY FA DE ICAZA

In the open competition and ordered by the Athenaeum, a contest in which judges were Messrs.
D. José Echegaray, D. Marcelino Menéndez y Pelayo, D. Rafael Salillas,
D. Cota and Emilio Mori and D. Ramón Menéndez Pidal, was awarded the
book of account given here in brief.

It is your D. Author Francisco A. de Icaza, the first Secretary of the Legation in Madrid which
is the Republic Mexican, and well known and respected in the letters by some work of scholarship
and criticism and elegant and beautiful poetry.

It's so unique merit and worth of Don Quixote, all other works he
wrote Miguel de Cervantes, are far lower this unique and breathtaking
creation.

Cervantes, however, and in La Galatea as the Persil, in many verses and even in their comedies
and farces, gives clear evidence of his brilliant wit and manages
to put the individual label that characterizes it distinguishes and
elevates him above the crowd of writers of his contemporaries.

The novels are certainly examples of works that, after Don Quixote, the more originality talent
and grace shows manco de Lepanto.

The book by Mr. Icaza proves this truth, after a careful and thoughtful consideration of the matter,
with keen observations and data with great copy, diligently collected and sorted with art. Therefore
it is clear that Cervantes can be regarded as inventor of the modern novel of manners and character.
The books of chivalry, the pastoral novels and even the picaresque is another thing: they are a long
series of adventures, without unity of action the life of someone who is great and portrays the
writer from his birth until his death.

Before Cervantes was also something we might call historical novel or relationship of events
that, if history of severe declines, they are not feigned by the novelist, but based on some reality,
beautified and adorned by the fancy of the vulgar, whose inventions then the time-honored tradition
and to some extent permitted.

So the Abencerraje, de Villegas, and civil wars of Granada, Ginés Pérez de Hita.

Short stories, finally, and stories of Italian, French and English, including in the Decameron of
Boccaccio, are very different from the novel cervantesca. Have an event, refer haul, tragic or comic,
sad or happy, but without looking at the painting of manners and the living representation of human
characters and passions.

In this setting, and this helps to paint the author of Extremadura jealous of Rinconetey Cortadillo,
of the famous mop of The Gitanilla and almost all other novels, examples of where through its psychological
acuity, new or rarely used before in this genre of fiction, Cervantes is to be the father
or the founder of the novel, as we conceive of and understand in the day. For demonstration
of this truth, which presupposes a claim highly original Cervantes, Mr. Icaza review and judge all
his novels, as critics have referred to that of them from their contemporaries
today, disputes the light trials Huet, Florian and other, proves the
lack of merits of the accusations launched by Estala plagiarism and
Bosart and demonstrates the powerful influence they have exercised
the novels of Cervantes in our Spanish drama, abroad and in the same
novel, which neglected among us sick for nearly two centuries, flourished
and gave spicy fruit in France, England and other countries, whence
he returned to Spain greatly increased in wealth, but not to be forgotten
Spanish origin as it has.

There is no going into details in this short little article or give
exact idea of ​​how well studied that is the question by Mr. de Icaza,
and rectal approach, uncommon knowledge and uncommon diligence that
displays and looks to treat you.

GOOD CLOTH ...

NOVEL BY JF MUÑOZ Pabon PRIEST

If I understand correctly and if not remember, the famous French novelist Emile Zola says a good
novel must be the exact representation of lived experience, seen
and understood to through a temperament. Zola forgets or neglects
the main thing: imagination, or is the active force that represents
well the lived and what has been seen and observed. Do not just look
and observe: it is necessary to reproduce or recreate it using a word
and by virtue fantasy. I doubt, however, be successful with the interpretation. The who
wants to learn to detail of what the conquerors found in basements the fort, see the Account
of the conquest of Peru by Pedro Pizarro. 

So did the Incas in this, that drove so much gold and silver mining in the kingdom, that must
have year they took more than fifty thousand pounds of silver, and more than fifteen gold mill,
and always drew these metals for his service. And these metals were brought to the heads of provinces,
and the manner and order that were taken out in ones, were taken out in the other, all the
kingdom, and if there were no metal to draw in other lands, so that they could contribute, breasts
and pour cast of little things, and wives and kids; which were taken from people without any regret,
for if a man had only one son or daughter, this may not drank, but did have three or four,
one to pay Tomabal service.

Other nations contributing to many loads of corn mill as it had houses, which each harvest
was given [57] and at the expense of the same province. In other regions provided by MESMA
order of many loads of potato starch [58] and the others to dry corn, which they made others,
and contributed to quinoa [59] and the other roots. Elsewhere many gave each Indian blankets as
he had married, and in others as many shirts as they were headed. In other was put on taxation
that would help with so many mill loads of lances, and others with deep and ayllos with all other
weapons they use. In other provinces sent to place such Indian mill jobs in Cuzco, for that would
make public buildings in the city and of kings, providing necessary maintenance. Other taxes
ropes to carry stones, other taxes coca. So this was done, since most often to Most importantly
they paid tribute to the Incas all provinces and regions of Peru, in hobo so great that order,
that neither the natives and left to pay the due and taxes nor have took the dare such charges
carry a grain of corn too. And all maintenance and things pertaining to the proveimiento of
war, which contributed, is despendia people in war or in the ordinary fittings questa placed on parts
of the kingdom for the defense. And when there was no war, more of everything they ate and
spent the poor, because they're the kings of Cuzco, they had their yanaconas [60], which is the
name of servant perpetual, and so many that were enough to till their fields and their houses
and plant maintenance both that enough, without which your dish is brought from the regions
always, many sheep and poultry and fish, corn, coca leaves, roots, fruits as they are caught. And
such order had in these taxes paid to the natives, and the Incas were so powerful that they had
no War is no regrowth.

To learn how, and how the taxes were paid and grabbed the other spill,
each wadding, which is the name of the year, dispatched some dried
apricots as a judge of commission, because had to look over the provinces
and give notice to the residents if anyone was offended and tell him
to complain, to punish those who would have made any sinjusticia,
and received complaints, if there were, or understood if somewhere
something is left to pay, given the back to Cuzco, which he left another
who had power to punish guilt.

Without this diligence, is to a larger one, which was, from time to time seemed the main the
provinces, where the day to each nation was allowed to talk, proposed front of Lord the state
of the province and the need or fill that she had, and the tax if was much or little, or if they
could pay or not, to which were released to his will, while Inca lords certain he was not lying,
but I told the truth, because if there was caution did great punishment and increase the tax.
The women who gave the provinces, Dellas brought them to Cuzco for what they were kings, and
from hers left in the temple of the sun.

For many dried apricots effects are consistent in Cuzco gave me the relationship, which formerly
time of the Inca kings, was sent to all peoples and provinces of Peru, which lords and their delegates
knew each year, both men and women who had been dead, and all who were born, for so to pay tribute,
as know the people who were for the war and he could be in defense of the people, agreement
that had it, which could easily find out, because each province,
in the end of the year quipos sent settle in for the account of its
nodes all men who had died there in that year, and the [with] following
which they were born.

And earlier this year that went out, came with the equipment to the Cuzco, which he understood well
that in that year were born, such as missing to be dead. And there was this great truth and certainty,
not at all be fraud or deception. And understand this, they knew the Lord and the governors
desto Indians were poor and the women who were widowed, and although they could pay taxes,
and how many people could go to war, and many other things that between them had however important.

And
as long as this kingdom, as in many parts of the scripture I have said, and Each province had
large number of main tanks filled with maintenance and other things necessary and useful for
provehimiento of men if there was war, spent, wherever they were real ones, of the quest in these
rooms, without touching on what the Confederates had their own, nor gather any thing to their
people that hobiese, and if not War had, all the multitude of maintenance that had, was distributed
to poor and widows. The poor were to be those who were old too, those who were lame, maimed or
toll, or other diseases toviesen, because if they were healthy, nothing will sent to. And then there
were tornadoes to swell the deposits with the taxes that were required to give, and if any case
had many years of infertility, and sent tanks to open mesmo to the
provinces and provide the necessary maintenance and then, in the year
hobiese fill, I gave and returned on their own and as true.

While tributes were given to the Incas not useful for other things for these was well spent,
because his kingdom had so sick and well provided.

Would not consent to any Haragan and wandered about stealing the work of others, but to all sent
work. And so, every lord, in a few days, went to his chácara and took the plow in seasoned hands
and the earth, working on other things. And yet they did the Incas themselves, as it was by
itself a good example of, because you had to have understood that there was no have none so rich
that he wanted to be insults and insult the poor, and with your order there was none that was
in all his land, because, having health, work and do not missing, and being without it, provided
he deposits necessary. Neither could any rich bring more herding or ornament of the poor, or differentiate
the dress and suit, except to the curacas lords and that these, by his own dignity, they could use
large franchises and freedoms and do the same, the apricots, which all nations were retired.

CAP.

XX .-- How the governors had made in the provinces, and how they had the kings, when they went
to visit, and how they were armed with a few snakes OUNTY sticks.

However true it learns of the kings of this kingdom, at the time of his lordship and kingship had
in all provincial capitals - as were Vilcas, Xauxa, Bombon, Cajamarca, Guancabamba, Tomebamba,
Latacunga [61], Quito, Carangui, and on the other side of Cuzco, about noon, Hatuncana, Hatuncolla,
Ayavire, Chuquiabo, Chucuito, Paria, and others going to Chile - its delegates, because in these
places had more rooms and more cousins ​​than in many other people of this great kingdom,
and many deposits, and resembled the heads of provinces or regions, because so many leagues came to
the tribute to one WITH THESE headers, and so to so, went to another,
having in this regard so that people no longer had known where he
had to go.

And in all these Kings had headers sun temples and home foundry and many silversmiths, they did
not understand all the time in more than in rich styling pieces of
gold, silver or great vessels, and there were many people in garrison,
and as I said, steward or delegate who was above all and to whom the
bill came as he entered, and was obliged to give what came out.

And these such governors could not intrude in sending in the jurisdiction agena and I had to post
another one like him, but where he was, if there was some scandal and turmoil, had power to punish,
and more if it was a matter of conspiracy or get up some tyrant, or of wanting to deny the obidient
the king, it is certain that was in full force these governors. And if the Incas did not fall
into them and that mitimaes would often rise up the natives and Esim real self-control; but
with so many people of both war and proveimiento of maintenance, could not, if between all the
ones and others not hobiese plot of treason or uprising, which had few Sometimes, because
these governors that they got, were of great trust, and all dried apricots and Dell had more
than their chacaras, which are inherited in the region of Cuzco, and their houses and relatives,
and if one did not come out enough to govern what I had to post after he was removed from command
and put another in place.

And these, if in some time came to Cuzco to private businesses or individuals with the Kings, lieutenants
left in their places, not to what they wanted, but those who knew they would do [62] more accurately
what they had ordered, and more to the service of the Incas. And if anyone desto governors or delegates
dying in his presidency, natural, how and what was dead sent in haste or probanza dello reason
the Lord, and even the bodies of the dead took the path of the posts, if Vian was proper. What
each term taxed WITH THESE headers and helped the natives, and gold, silver, and clothing and weapons,
with everything else they gave, was handed over to the account that had the quipos Camay, which
made everything that I was sent this regard to losse these things with people war, or repartillo
with whom the Lord commanded, or to carry them to Cuzco, but when Cuzco came to take the account,
or to which they were to give to Cuzco, the mesmos quipos counters with the giving or came to the
giving to where there could be fraud, but all had to be fair. And a few years spent without
accounting and reason of all these things.

These governors had great authority and power enough to raise armies and bring people together war,
if it Recresco Supit any embarrassment or uprising, or to come any strange people somewhere
to make war, and were before the Lord honored and privileged; and on this occasion remained, when
the Spanish came, many of them with perpetual control in the provinces. I know some of them and
be as aposesionados so that their children inherit what was in others.

When peacetime came the Incas to visit his kingdom, he would have that great majesty, sitting
on rich litter, mounted on sticks smooth, long, fine woods, engastonadas gold and Argentería,
and the litter came forth two high arches, made of gold, engastonados precious stones, and
fell somewhat long blankets for all the litter of Thus, that covered all, and if it was not wanting
that was inside, could not be seen, or blankets, but was lifted when
it came and went, such was his esteem.

And for air gets in and he could see the road, the blankets had made some holes. For all parts
of these litters had wealth, and some were carved in the sun and moon some snakes and other large
OUNTY, and some as the crossed sticks, - this wore by insinia [63], for arms - and these litters
were worn on the shoulders of the older gentlemen and more major of the kingdom, who walked over them,
that it had more honest and most favored.

In meters around the litter and went spinning to the king's guard with archers and spearmen, and before
were five thousand slingers, and came back as many spears, with their captains, and the sides
of the road and on the same road, runners would discover what was true and announcing the
departure of the Lord, and went so many people see that it seemed that all the hills and slopes
were full della, and all gave their blessings raising great cries and screams his style, calling
them "Wide hatun apu, intipchuri, canqui zapallaapu tucuy ccamp pacha uyay sullull [64], which
in our language says: "Very large and powerful Lord, son of the sun, thou only art the Lord,
everybody loves oya in truth. "And they said other things this will higher; So little was needed
to worship him by God.

All the way Indians were cleaned, so that no stone or grass or parescia
but everything clean and swept.

He walked four miles every day, or what he wanted, which was stopped served, to understand the state
of his kingdom, happily heard the complaints that come to him, remedying and punishing those
who were doing injustice. Those who were with them, not lawless nothing to step off the road.
The natives provided as necessary, without which it had so honored for deposits, which had left,
and nothing was missing. Where was I, emerged Many both men and women and boys to serve them personally
as it was commanded and carry loads, they carried a village to another, where one of taking,
and the others left, and being a day, and at most two, not sorry, nor dello engaged or no
offense. For doing the Lord in this way, walking through his land as long as it pleased, seeing
through their eyes what had happened, and providing what he understood
was proper, that every was great and important things, which actually
turned around to Cuzco, principal city throughout his empire.

CAP. XXI .-- How were placed the posts in this realm.

So great was the kingdom of Peru, the Incas who ruled many times that from Chile to Quito, and
even the Maule river to that of Angasmayo, and if still the king in a cape dest, hobiera to be
informed of what was happening in the other with who went by the day, although they grew up,
was something very long, because, after having gone to mill leagues serious and no time what
had to provide, should it agree, or remedy other businesses governorship. In order for this, and
by hitting all the provinces to govern the Incas invented the posts, which was the best thing
he could think or imagine, and this just Inca Yupanqui is the son the son of Viracocha Inca, Inca
Tupac's father, according to the public the songs Indians, claiming the apricots. Not only the
coaching invented Inca Yupanqui other great things he did, as we
shall telling.

And so, from the time of his reign, All highways were made half a
league half a league, more or less, houses While small straw and wood
decks, and among the mountain slopes were made by and boulders so
that the roads were filled with these houses small step by step, as
that of above.

And mandóse in every two Indians were a Dell with supplies, and that these Indians were made
by the neighboring villages, which were not shelves, but, from time to time, which were few
and they should come others, and such order therein hobo, not was necessary to send more than
to never to leave while the Incas ruled.

For each province had care of populating the posts that fell on their terms, and so they made in the
deserts and mountains of snow fields that were closer to the road. And necessary to give notice
in Cuzco or elsewhere to the kings of anything hobiese happened or that suit their service,
came out of Quito or in Tomebanba, or of Chile or of Caranqui, or of any other part of the
whole kingdom, and the plains and the mountains, and too trotted quickly walked the half mile
without stopping, because there they placed the Indians and sent to be, to believe is that would
be lighter and looser all.
 

After a few days, Rosario Calvo, who had not set foot in his home life of de Mere, appeared there
and was assiduous Tertullian. How had they managed those for engage it? It is not easy to find,
but many times they had been completed and companies similar, which surely had a simple and
safe prescription.

Encariñábanse with friends as if they were all close relatives. Contábanse of these features
self-denial that extremely honored. During the furious reaction of 1823, a your meetings, lieutenant
of cavalry, fled after some attempt aborted at home. The ladies received him and hid him some
days, and managed to get out escapes disguised in the garb of a servant. But news that he was
taking the police to search the house, thought to terror in the uniform of lieutenant. Where
to save not giving to him? Carmelita, in those critical moments, had a stroke of genius and bravery.
He dressed in uniform under his clothes for women. In fact, this Lieutenant behaved with them
quite ungrateful. Did not take his life ten minutes to write a letter giving thanks.

It was not the only one who had to suffer because of their evening. Used to exploit these their kindness
as they could; recreábanse at home, enjoyed the company and conversation of the most beautiful
young Lancia, concerting some marriage, then you do it, or because their business or their age prevented
them from attending the gathering, if I saw you, I forget; just the greeting on the street.
The same is true of the breast, as rendered and flattering before marrying their daughters, and
so detached so I got. But such weaknesses are not alter the mood of those blessed or destroy
his optimism. As we were renovating incessantly attendees home, forget the ingratitude of the ancients
to think so only in appreciation taxed them new. Moreover, in their hearts there was no rancor,
even hostility, the jokes do not offend. And beware that some were rather heavy! Which gave
Paco Gómez on one occasion did line: still have joy in Lancia.

Not all were ladies winter nights to socialize. Usually attended Saturday and Wednesdays. But
there was a bunch of guys who almost never failed to make a while company early, but then they
went to other houses. One was Paco Gómez. In those lonely nights are usually a party was brisca.
Paco went Nuncita teammate and captain Núñez, or Jaime Moro, or any other boy with Carmelita.
Paco hurt one night that the signs were made during the game were so vulgar and known: it was impossible
to make them go unnoticed for the opponents. Then, according with the other proposed change.
He taught each Nuncita, and the opposite other Carmelita. The new signs were all obscene gestures,
those that are not only in taverns and brothels. Those innocent women accepted them without knowing
what they were doing and were served of them with the greatest ease. So I spent a few days, and
were perfectly seasoned to use them, Paco invited one night to many of the guests to watch the
game. It was an Funny scene up. Each time any of the two girls would signal had an explosion of joy.
However, in spite of the brutal and shameless joke, the flattering ladies, instead of putting
the legs on the street and shut the door forever, they contented to know to be of surprise
crosses and laugh like the others.

- Rodillero blessed Santo Cristo, lo and behold!

So many sins as we made no know!

- Well, I did not confess - Nuncita said resolutely.

- Los confess, girl - seriously said the first.

- Not.

- Girl!

-
I do not want.

- Silence, girl!

The confess and three more.

Tomorrow I'll take you to Fray Diego.

Nuncita still protested silently, like a girl mimosa, until the severe eye her older brother
were silent. But it was still good time sulking. Sometimes, know why, appeared unruly and rebellious
in the highest degree. Carmelita needed to demonstrate all its authority to subject. But usually
it was not so. While not completely more than three or four years, Nuncita, acquired by custom,
by weakness of character or perchance because he disliked appear younger in the presence of
people, recognized the leadership of his sister and was due to a submission that would envy
the mothers for their daughters. Rarely had need to reprimand her, but when he did, Nuncita
lowered head and soon she seemed to take the handkerchief to his eyes and leave the room while
Carmelita followed his gaze movements, while shaking his head severely. Little was needed to punish
that leaving without dessert or sending her to bed. For these reasons and because Carmelita and often
call her, Ms Nuncia, there was something in the eighties, Lancia was known by the nickname "the
girl."

In Matthew Emilita loves both sisters behaved heroically. Captain Nunez was blocked by any account.
For about a month at least, and until we were well on track, not a chair was left open more
than it was next to the youngest girls D. Cristobal. In the lottery game, which was delivered
with that inordinate passion society, Nuncita was responsible, but no one should ask, to find
cards that were combined. When referring to official Emilita Pontevedra and spoke as one person.
So close and compact the already appreciated.

Services were paid extremely important that the Pensioner with a gratitude that was filled the
soul and the eyes out. Prosternaría is willingly to them and they would kiss cubic fringe dress. But
his dignity and that long series of diatribes against the army that had hung at the feet shackled,
kept him from these and other events. Did not even have the consolation of being able to be cheerful
when he accompanied military honor your child on the trip. But we know that the girls are cared
very little gratitude your meetings. The irresistible vocation married by their spirit, by a
need your body, such as the spider weaves the fabric and the birds sing in the forest. Once bound
by marriage, the circles, like men than women, lost its appeal for the ladies of Mere. His attention
was immediately on the new Pollastre chirping coming to come under its protective wings.

Who caused them a series of disappointments and bitterness, which give them little in the grave
was the Count de Onis. In his life had encountered a man more incomprehensible. What poor sweated
to put him into line, in the Florida village of Hymen! But that devil they slipped through his
fingers like an eel. Showed himself for a few nights tender and infatuation with Fernanda and never
left it a hard song. The eyes of the two sisters rested upon them with evident tenderness, no
one tried very hard was to interrupt, bit they needed to send others to go down to the voice
you do not mind the noise. Now, suddenly, at least he could think, Count committed the absurdity
of taking up absently from his chair, yawn and go to play solitaire to a corner of the table. For
its part Fernanda fell on the same weaknesses, getting to chat animatedly with the boy's ruling without
addressing the audience a look at her boyfriend. Carmelite Nuncita and were terrified when this
happened, they went to bed with the deepest consternation.

After the final break, and when at last became convinced that the chance to perform sublime marriage
was not reserved for them, humiliated a little ambition and provided assistance to Garnet, who had
long demanded it to court. Also on this side unholy luck struck them ruthlessly. Fernanda angrily
rejected any word suasive that in the favor of the Indian. If you watched the young ladies had prepared
the chairs so that proves that by sitting at his side, instantly destroying their combination
dismissive gesture by going to the opposite extreme. In forming the brisca items or tute would
not allow a companion should give it would fail to play. In short, was so alert and yes it
was impossible to attack anywhere. However, those Mere persisted in their project work to be
done with patience, which is the guarantee safer to give big business summit.

A few days after the joke of Paco Gomez were in the famous get-together,
more than Pollastre three or four, it Paco, Manuel Antonio, D. Santos,
Captain Nunez, D. Cristobal Fernanda, Maria Josefa Hevia and two girls
of Matthew.

Not thought to play yet. Everyone was sitting less Paco, who was spinning around the room
telling the joke that had since the other night at the theater to Manin, the steward of Quiñones. Since
it had been paralyzed, his famous companion walked without shade in the city. But by the great
trust that his master gave him, the circles of D. Peter kept considerations, and in spite of the
hardiness of their treatment setting and costume wearing, when he stumbled on the street embraced
him familiarly, he was invited to enter the coffee and sometimes brought him to the theater.
Manin for here to there: the rude village had become famous not only in Lancia, but throughout
the province. That knee-breeches, white stockings that leagues wool color, green cloth jacket
and hat calanes gave him an original in the city, where seemed a miracle and a man in this roundup.
It was one of the things that most surprised to outsiders, especially seeing some alternate
footing lords population. Not only out of respect to the Grandee, but because they did gracefully
exits Manin brutal, they are perishing for bringing in your company. In addition, Manin was a
famous hunter of bears, which was said to have sometimes fought hand to hand. The fans of that
kind of exercise so professed respect and sympathy. However, Butler enemies back in his village
was assured, smiling sarcastically, that what of the bears was a sham, that his life had been,
the more fight them. Manin added that had always been a zampatortas until D. Peter had taken a
fancy him out of the darkness. Fairness requires us to print this view, since then assume unfounded.
It must be confessed, however, that the conduct of Manin, offering repeatedly bring their friends
to hunt bears, without ever fulfilling the promise lent it some credibility. But to profess
respect for the health and integrity of the bears of your country is perhaps reason enough
to throw a man to face the qualifier zampatortas? No one dare say so. More logical to suppose that
the famous Manin was, as all men who manage to rise above the crowd, a victim of the wiles
of envy.

Referred Paco, with his characteristic insolent nonchalance and even dispensed not being found
among women, how he had been Manin the proscenium stage with other friends had paid in the theater.
The butler had never seen dancers. By presenting them on stage brought him to believe that her
bare legs. Manin was shocked, fixing them his eyes, where he painted
the astonishment and indignation.

"Then you have not seen the best, wait, looks a bit! "When the orchestra started playing, the dancers
are snapped toothpicks and walking around all the leg up to head height. "Sollo!" Exclaims poor
covering his face with his hands. God knows what he thought was going to see!

Paco narrated the set with ease, walking from one end of the room, head down and his hands in his pockets.
The young Tertullian believed in the case to blush. Everyone laughed less Garnet, who was still
at heart the last day prank. From his corner, where he was like a sleepy bear, dirigíale looks
grim, aggressive.

What had happened in Rosa Estrada-house when the Indian was in demand her hand of Miss? Or
D. Juan nor his daughter could take them a word, but some maid everyone knew that D. John had
refused in contemptuous terms, which made Maroon flaunt their millions and still authorized to
state that Fernanda would not find a more advantageous marriage. Then D. John was annoyed,
I call him and dismissed him with drone packing. Paco, every time he surprised one of those
furious eyes, smiling and winking at Manuel Antonio.

- Hey, Carmela - said standing in front of a box painted in oils - where you bought the San
Juan?

- Jesus!

Mr. - said Carmelita, - not a San Juan, a Savior, how to watch it laughs the poor!

- Ah! is a Savior. How do they differ?

Demoiselles de Mere, hearing that question, they wanted to go crazy
with joy.

They in tears of laughter.

- Oh, what Paquito! Oh, what a heart! ... It distinguishes a San Juan
for a Savior!

And you laugh and laugh. Many years they had not heard anything so
funny.

When they relaxed a little and wiped her tears and rang loudly with
tissue herbs, Paco, who enjoyed seeing them so happy, he asked:

-
But hey, when did you buy, the Savior, that I have not seen so far?

-
I was in the room Nuncia, my soul, but there was no good because the
bed faced in it, and we brought.

- He gave it to Carmela, living
father, a painter of Madrid happened here a few days - said Nuncita.

-
Were you young? - Paco addressing seriously asked Carmelita.

- Yes,
very young.

- Does the artist was famous?

- Mucha.

- Then I know
who he was, Murillo.

- No, I do not think was his name.

- Then it
would Velázquez.

- The name and sounds more.

Young man was very polite and very handsome, eh, Nuncia? ... To you I think you made some cuddle
...

Nuncita looked down blushing.

- Who remembers that now?

- It was
very amorous - continued Carmelita, - but also well-bred and well
understood ...

- Lovesick say?

Just can not be other than Velázquez.

- It was not called Velazquez called González - Nuncita said shyly.

 More often in spite of her body and
not very well made, and the constant paleness of his face, had special appeal, that all who saw her,
and further treating her were happy to say. It came mainly on their large expressive dark eyes,
the soul looked out they reflect the most mild and fleeting emotions, now burning with fire
passion revealing hidden malicious, insatiable, sometimes ecstatic become quiet, limpid, in mystic
rapture, now shining bright and boisterous, then melancholy, dry and wet as soon as soon as tender
angry. Also came from its mobility, sharpness of their wit and their Metal nice voice and insinuating.
It was, in short, a funny and interesting woman.

It is unknown whether through pride or because they really hot and blustery temperament prompted
As a result, presented herself with the rich young cavalier gallantly would demand that undecided
to ask for her hand, and gave heart to a humble guy, a government escribientillo four thousand
political real wages, the son of a schoolteacher. Blue Blood Sanchiz jumped the cholera in
the veins of D. Antonio and Antonito, their sisters, and even on the banker, his brother, who
did not. Active and had to suffer fierce persecution. But as he did not lack courage and was
also equipped with a witty and mischievous spirit, fertile in all sorts of mischief, it is
certain that mocked them a long time, that pleas were to no avail, threats, or the season
that had imprisoned in a convent. If the clerk fails to die of tuberculosis that ended in a few
months, almost certainly that the very noble and needed Sanchiz house suffer the stain of affinity
with the child a schoolteacher.

After this adventure, Amalia was badly discredited in the population. But she well I knew that
even if his reputation remained intact, would be the same. Men are not marry for prestige but
for the money. It did not occur, then feel remorse for past. Lived sad and resigned two years,
appearing indifferent to the pleasures of age, without doing anything to win the willingness of
young people and gain a husband. When and was about twenty-four Aprils, and could be written off
hope of marriage, was when D. Pedro Quinones, third or fourth uncle, came to remember her. Resisted
to marry that man, that girl had only seen two or three times a widower recently time, and whose extravagance
knew from hearing it and laughing to tell her father and brother, The same as now pressed to
accept him as a husband!
 These books have this striking inscription
on their cover: "Save your Silver and it will turn into Gold! LXIII .-- How the King became Huayna Capac to send people to call, and how I went to Quito
240

CAP. LXIV .-- How Huayna Capac Bracamoros entered and turned to flee,
and what he did until he came to Quito 245

CAP.

LXV .-- From Huayna Capac how he walked through the valleys of Los Llanos, and what he did
249

CAP.

LXVI .-- Huayna Capac of how out of Quito, sent forward some of his captains, which turned
and fled from the enemy, and what about it made 252

CAP. LXVII .-- How, gathering all the power of Huayna Capac, gave battle to the enemy and won,
and the grand cruelty that used them 256

CAP. LXVIII .-- How the King Huayna Capac returned to Quito, and how the Spanish knew that walked
along the coast, and death 259

CAP. LXIX .-- The lineage and conditions of Huascar and Atahualpa 264

CAP. LXX .-- Of how he was taken by King Huascar in Cuzco, after his father died 266

CAP. LXXI .-- How he started the differences between Huascar and Atahualpa, and were among each
other great battles 270

CAP.

LXXII .-- About how Atahualpa of Quito came with his men and captains, and how he gave battle
Atoco to the towns of Ambato 273

CAP.

LXXIII .-- How the Huascar sent captains and again against his enemy,
and how Atahualpa arrived at Tomebamba, and there used great cruelty,
and what happened between him and 275 Guascar captains

NOTES

CHAPTER
III.

  

  

..............................

..............................

Dell's most of what I tell, is a delightful place full of vices and recreation, where all eat,
and drink and rejoice, and if the contrary has been bad, disobedient to their parents, enemy
of religion, going to another dark and gloomy.

In the first book I tried longer these substances [7], therefore,
going forward, tell of how the people of this orchestras kingdom before
the Incas or the blooms that are hiciesen sovereign lords, so that
all behetrias say they were without the order, and a great reason
and justice were after, and what to say Ticiviracocha, whom they called
and had by Maker of all things.

CAP.

Many times I asked to the inhabitants of these provinces so that they knew before hobo that
the Inca lords, and say that all lived wildly, and many were naked, made savage, without houses
or other dwellings which of the many caves that we have in large cliffs and crags, from which it came
to eating what they found by fields. Other castles were doing in the hills, called Pucara,
where, howler with strange languages, came out to fight each other over land, or by other causes,
and killed many of them, taking the spoils that were and the women of the vanquished; with all
of which were trunfando to the top of the hills, where they had their castles, and there they
made their sacrifices to the gods in whom they worshiped, before shedding stones and idols much
human blood and sheep. All were behetrias without order, because some gentlemen say they had
no more than captains who went out to war: if some were dressed, the clothes were small, and
not as now have them. The llaut and cords that come into their heads to be known about among others,
say they had as agora use them. And while these people in this way, rose in the province of Collao
a gallant gentleman called Zapana, which could therefore, that got under his dominion many
people of that province, and have otherwise, which if true or not know-it-the very high God understands
all things, because I do what I am telling you I have no other evidence books and the sayings
of these Indians, and what I have is, however some say, that after he got up in Hatuncollao
one captain, or tyrannical power in the province of Canas, midway between the quest Canches and
Collao, near the town called Chungara some wives were like brave men, that taking up arms, compelled
to the quest in the region, where they lived, and orchestras, almost to the use of what we
have of the Amazons, lived without [8] their husbands by people themselves, which, after have
lasted several years and made some made famous, came to contend with Zapana, which had been made Lord
of Hatuncollao, é to defend against their power, which was great, did forces and barricades,
now living, to defend themselves, and that after having done so as
ultimate power, were arrested and killed, and his name undone.

In Cuzco is a neighbor who has named Thomas Vasquez, who told me that doing it and Francisco
de Villacastin the people of Ayavire, seeing those fences and asking the Indians it was natural,
I told this story. We also have what I have eScript in the first part [9] on the island of
Titicaca, in past centuries a people hobo bearded, white like us, and leaving the valley of
Coquimbo, a captain who had named Carl, who is close to where now is Chucuito, where, after
having done some new populations, went with his people to the island, and gave such a war to
these people I say, that killed them all. Chirihuanas, Governor of those people, who are the
Emperor, told me what I have eScript, and as this land was so big, and partly as healthy and
accompanied to move human life, and estobiese inchido of people, but walked in their guerrilla
and passions, founded and made many people, and the captains who were shown to be courageous,
lords could stay for some people, and all second is public, had in their Indian strengths or stays the
connoisseurs, who spoke with the Devil, which, allowing it Almighty
God for what he knows, he had great power in these nations.

Before the Inca reigned in these realms and in them were known, these Indians have nothing much
greater than all that they say, because they say long questuvieron without seeing the sun,
and suffer great job with this fault, they made great vows and prayers them that they had gods,
asking that lacked the fire, and Questar Desta Fortunately, he left the island of Titicaca,
in quest of the great lake of Collao, the hot sun resplendent with all rejoiced [10]. And then
questo happened, say that towards the after midday came and remanesció a grown white man body,
which in appearance person and showed great authority and reverence, and queste man, who were well,
had so great power, that of the plains and hills to the plains to high mountains, by sources living
stones, and as such allowed, called him "the Maker of all things created, Top Dellas, Father Sun,
for without this, they say that to other things more, because gave to their men and animals,
and finally, they came into their own hands notable benefit. Y that such Indians have to what they
told me that they heard to their past, they also heard in the songs as they had very old, which
was long towards the north, making and working these wonders, by the way of the mountains, and never
did it again to see. In many places, he says, gave orders to men how they lived, and he spoke lovingly
and with great gentleness, admonishing them to be good and one another should not be made damage
or injury before, loving, all hobiese charity. Usually he was appointed to the fullest Ticiviracocha
part, although in the province of Collao Tuapaca call him, and elsewhere della Arnau [11]. They
were their temples in many parts made in bundles and put them stone to his likeness, and they
made sacrifices in front of them: the great quest in packages in Tiahuanacu [12], we have that
was from that time, and though of fame have in the past, have what I now say Ticiviracocha,
can not say the most, or that return to any part of this kingdom.

Without this, they say that, after some time, returned to see another man resembled the Quest
above, the name of which do not count, and heard to his past very certain, that where hobiese
wants it and sick, heal, and to the blind was just words view, for which work was so good and
profitable for all beloved, and in this way, working with your word great things, came to the
province of Canas, in which, together to a people who have Cacha by name, and that it has
instructed the Captain Bartolomé de Terrazas, inconsiderately rising natives were to him with a will
of stone, and shaping the work with her, I saw his knees, hands raised to heaven, as invoking
divine favor to be rid of the predicament in which they looked. They claim these Indians again,
then the sky seemed like a very large fire that burned all be thought; filled with great fear
and trembling, which were for and wanted to kill, and with great clamor begged him to deliver
that bind wanted it, knew the sin they had committed as well as wanting to be stoned, I leave that
punishment. Were after, sending the fire cease, went out, leaving the fire consumed and worn stones
in such a way that they themselves were doing to witness this happen has been eScript, because
they came burned and so light that even if it's grown is lifted by hand as cork. And on the
subject say again that out of there, went up to the seacoast, where, holding out his cloak,
went through his waves, and never saw it or paresció; and as he went, he was named Viracocha,
which means foam of the sea. And then questo passed, it became a temple in the town of Cacha,
past a river that goes along with him, West, where they placed a large stone idol in a toilet somewhat
narrow, and this toilet is not so large and bulky as the quest in remembrance of facts to Tiahuanaco
Ticiviracocha, neither seems to be in the form of clothing that they [13]. Some amount of gold
jewelry was found near him.

I through that province, went to see this idol [14], because the Spanish and published some say
could be an apostle, and even to many accounts he had heard that
in the hands, which is fun, if I had no eyes blind, because although
it looked much, I could see that not more than I had put his hands
on the hips, twisted arms, and signals at the waist and debri mean
that the clothes had caught fire with buttons.

If this or the other was one of the glorious Apostles at the time of his preaching came to
these parts, God Almighty knows that I do not know about it believe me more that, in my belief,
if an apostle, he should act with the power of his preaching God in these people, that are
simple and little malice and dello remnant, or in the Holy Scriptures as found written, but
what we see and understand is, that Satan had great power on these people, God permitting, and in
these places is made sacrifices in vain and heathen; where I think even our times the word
Gospel was not seen heard, in which we now completely desecrated their temples, and everywhere
the glorious Cross fantastic.

I asked the natives of Cacha, and its chief, or lord, a good person Indian and reason, Don
Juan, and Christian, and went in person to show me this antique, in remembrance of what God had done
that temple, and I replied that Ticiviracocha. And then try this name of Viracocha, I want
to disabuse the reader to believe that the people it is natural that they set the Spanish by name
Viracocha, that both approaches as sea ​​foam, and as the name is
true, because it turns the name of butter, and car sea, and thus seems
to have come through it, I had attributed that name, which bad interpretation,
for the relationship that I took in Cuzco and give the pears, because
say then that in the province of Cajamarca Atahualpa was imprisoned
by the Spanish, having existed between the brothers Huascar Inca empire's
sole heir, and Atahualpa, large Wars and giving master of masters
against each other many battles, until the Apurimac river, by the
passage of Cotabamba, Huascar was the king prisoner and cruelly treated
Calicuchima, without which the Quizquiz in Cuzco did great harm and
killed, as published, thirty brothers Huascar and made other cruelties
that had his opinion and had not shown favorable to Atahualpa, and
as these passions riding hobiese as big as I say, been prisoner Atahualpa
and Pizarro agreed with him that would give a home for his ransom
of gold, and to traelle Martin were to Cuzco Well, Zarate and Moguer
[15], because most were in a solemn temple Curicancha, and as these
Christians arrived in Cuzco in times and situations that the share
of Huascar passed by the calamity that, and knew the imprisonment
of Atahualpa, rejoiced as much as it can mean, and so, of course,
with large supplications implored Atahuallpa his help against his
enemy, claiming to be sent by the hand of their great god Ticiviracocha,
and be his children, and so then they called and they named Viracocha.

And sent to high priest, and the other ministers of the temple is sacred, the women were in
it, and Quizquiz gave them all the gold and silver. And as the fluency of the Spanish has been so
much in so little have had the honor and honor these people, in return for the great hosting
plans they were doing and love with which the Serbs, corrupted some virgins and to them tuviéronlos
in short, that was the reason that the Indians, for this and see the little bow that had his
sun, and as shamelessly no fear of God nor violated [16] their virgins, they had by great sacrilege,
said then that such people were not children of God, but worse than Supais, which is the name
of Diablo, but to fulfill the mandate of Mr. Atahualpa, the captains and delegates cibdad the
dispenser without any anger they do, then sending treasure [17]. And the name of Viracocha stood
up today, which, according to I have said, I reported so I have put it eScript, and not by giving
foam significance of the sea. And both tell you what I understood the origin of the Incas.

CAP. VI .-- How the Tampu Pacárec remanecieron in certain men and women, and what we have they did
after they left there.

And other times I have said [18], how, by year of me and to flee the vices of idleness is Regrowth,
descrebir work took what I caught of the Incas and their regiment and good order of the Interior,
and as I have no relationship or that escriptura they give, if any atinare to this matter he could write
more successful than I could well, although for clarity of what I write I jumped at work, and to make
it more truly came to Cuzco, be it mayor Captain Juan de Saavedra [19], where I gather Cayua
Tupac, who is there live descendants of Huayna Capac, Tupac because Sairi son Manco Inca, is retired
in Viticos, where his father was absent after the war in Cuzco to the Spanish had, as later
tell [20] and to others in the apricots, which are those among them who are considered more noble,
and the best interpreters and languages I asked them were found, these gentlemen Incas what people
were and what nation. And it seems that Inca past, with great feat by enlarging its source in his
songs is what apregona that it have, that is, quests all the people who lived in these disordered
regions and killing one another, and being involved in his vices, a party remanecieron has named
Pacárec Tampu, tanks not far from the city of Cuzco, three men and three wives. And as can be interpreted,
Pacárec Tampu want to say as much home produced. The men say they went there one Ayar Uchu
and Ayar Cachi Asauca the other, and the other Ayar Manco call themselves: the women, one named
Mama had Huaco, the other Mama Cora, another Mama Rahua [21]. Aguná Indians have these names and
otherwise more numbers, but I have to what the apricots and they are so true to me again assembled
(Sic), because they know better than any others. And, they say it came out dressed in a blankets
and a long way to shirts without collar or sleeves, wool rich, with
many paintings of different ways, which they call tucapu, which in
our language means dresses of kings, and these gentlemen took a nickel
in his hand a deep gold, and she put a stone, and that the women came
dressed as richly as they took a lot of service and gold.

Moving ahead with this, say again, that took a long service gold and nickel a of the brothers,
who appointed Ayar Uchu, spoke with his brothers, to begin to the
great things they had to be made, because the presumption was so great
that be felt only lords of the earth, and by them was determined to
do at that place a new population, which they named Pacárec Tampu,
and there was a brief, because to do so had the help of the natives
of that region, and walking time, put large amount of pure gold and
jewels, other precious things in that part, of which there is much
fame dello hobo Hernando Pizarro and Diego de Almagro the waiter.

 

And back to history, says one of the three quel, we have said called Ayar Cachi was so brave and
had such great power, with the sling removed, or throwing throwing punches rocks, cutting down
the hills, and sometimes pulling up, they put the stones near clouds, which, for the other
two brothers were seen, weighed them, thinking his disgrace was not even in those things, and
so passionate with envy, sweet begged him with soft words, but rather full of deceit, to re-enter the
mouth of a cave where they had their treasures, to bring a cup of gold that they had forgotten,
and to beg the sun, his father, give them chance that they might lord prosperous land. Ayar Cachi,
believing that there was caution in what his brothers told him cheerfully was to do what he had
said, and there was well finished entering the cave, when Two other charges on him so many stones,
which apparently was no more, which last, say them very true that the earth shook in such a way
that sank many hills falling on the valleys [22].

So far have the apricots on the origin of the Incas, because as they
were of such great presumption and made so high, they wanted it to
be understood to have this pass remanecido and be children of the
sun, where after, when they praised the Indians with great renown,
called them Wide hatun apu, intipchuri!, which means in our language
to say: Oh very much Lord, son of the sun!

And I for me I have to believe this is due questo pretend, shall, that as in Hatuncollao Zapana
rose, and elsewhere other captains did the same thing brave, quest remanecieron Incas, some three
brothers had to be brave and courageous and who hobiese great thoughts, some people WITH THESE
natural regions, or come on the other side of the mountains of the Andes, which, finding gear,
and conquer would gain the mastery they had, and yet this could be what is told Ayar Cachi and
the other being charming, it would cause by the Devil to do what they did. In short, we can not draw
from her questo otherwise.

Well after Ayar Cachi was inside the cave, the other two brothers agreed with some people that
they had arrived, to make another population, which they named Tampu Quiru, which in our language
will mean teeth or palace chamber, and so, you understand orchestras populations were not large
or more than some small forces.

And in that instead were some days when they had heavy and have thrown himself to his brother
Ayar Cachi, which call themselves Huanacaure another name.

Continuing the relationship that I took in Cuzco, apricots say that after having Quiru Tampu
settled in the two Incas, passing many days without it, neglected and more see Ayar Cachi, saw
him coming through the air with large feathered wings painted, and
they very fear that his visit caused them, wanted to flee, the more
he quickly took away that fear, saying: "Be not afraid nor acongojeis,
I did not come but it begins to be called the Empire of the Incas,
so let, let the population that you have done, and go below to that
you see a valley, where they later found Cuzco, approaches what has
to be worth; porquestos are suburbs and of little importance, and
that is the big city, where sumptuous temple must be built and be
so served, honest and popular, quel sol [23] is the most praised,
and because I always I have to pray to God for you, and be party to
briefly attain to great lordship quest on a hill near here I'll stay
the way and manner you see me, and always will be for you and for
your descendants hallowed and adored, and heis Guanacaure call, and
payment of the good works that you have received me, I pray to God
I always adore and it make me altars where sacrifices are made, and
you doing this, you shall be in the war helped me, and the signal
that from now on you have to be estimated, honest and feared, will
horadaros ears the way that now you will see me.

"And then this This, say they found him with ears [24] of gold, which was round as a moans.

The
brothers were terrified of what Vian, were as silent, not talking, and finally, after the
agitation, said they were happy to do what he commanded, and then haste is went to the hill
called the Guanacaure, which from that time until now had as sacred; and on top of the Volvo to
see Ayar Cachi - that who the culprit must be some devil if this is something they have in
truth and God permitting, under false pretenses WITH THESE them to understand their desire, want
you to worship and to sacrifice, most attempts Quél Quesada, - and I turned to speak, saying, was proper
bolrra them to take the crown of the empire or the who were to be sovereign masters, and who knew
how in such an act be done for armed young men to be gentlemen and be held by nobles. They answered
that the brothers and had first said that all his orders would be fulfilled, and obidient signal,
together hands and heads bowed, I made the mocha, or reverence, to best understand; and apricots
because they claim that here was taking the bolrra and being armed Gentlemen, pornélo here,
and will serve to avoid the need to turn in forward to repeat, and puédese have the tasty and
very true story, because in Cuzco Manco Inca made the supreme bolrra or crown, and there live
many Spanish who were present to this cirimonia, é I've heard to many of them. It is true that the
Indians also say quen time of the last kings was done with more solemnity and meetings with
people prepared and wealth so great that can not be innumerable.

Apparently, these guys ordered this order to be bolrra or take the crown, and say Ayar Cachi
in the same hill Guanacaure dressed out of this sort: that was to Inca be dressed in a black camisole
day, no necklace, a colorful paintings, and in the head with a tawny braid be given some laps,
and covered with a blanket tawny long been out of his room and to go to the camp to catch a straw
makes, and must take to bring it all day without eating or drinking, because it's fast, and that
mother and sisters Inca whatever, must be spinning at such a rate, which at the day itself were
spinning and knit four dresses for business he himself, and have to fast without food or water
which in this work we were. One must be dressed desto T fawn and white blanket, and the other
must be the blanket and all white shirt and the other has to be blue and flocaduras cords.
These dresses have to put whatever the Inca, and fast the time has established which is a month, and
to call this fast zaziy [25], which is done in a room in the palace real fire without seeing
or have intercourse with woman, and these days of fasting Ladies their seed must be very great
care to do with their own hands too much of their chicha, wine tanks made from corn, and have
to wear clothes richly. After spending time of fasting, which comes out to be master, carrying in
his hands a silver halberd and gold, and goes to the house of an elderly relative to where you
have to be shorn hair; and wearing one of those clothes out of Cuzco, where he makes this
event, and go to the hill of Guanacaure where we say Quest's brothers,
and made some cirimonias and sacrifices become where it is prepared
to wine, where they drink, and then leaves the Inca to a hill ANAGUA
appointed, and since the beginning of runs away, because they see
how light will brave in war, and then bringing down from some wool
attached to a halberd, a sign that when you walk in fighting with
their enemies, must try to bring the hair and heads of reach.

Fact they were going to mesmo Guanacaure hill to fuck up straight straw, and he had to be king,
had a big bunch of it, of gold, very thin, even, and it was another to hill called Yahuira
[26], where he wore another of the clothes and such, and head was coming down or llautu braids
called Pillaca, cheese as a crown, below which hung ears [27] of gold, and on top put on a bonnet
and headband feathers sewn, they Puruchuco call [28], and the halberd tied a long golden ribbon
that reached the ground, and breasts wearing a golden moon, and in this way, in the presence
of all those who there were, killed a sheep, whose blood and flesh divided among the more major
for the eat raw, in which meant that if they were not brave, that his enemies eat their meat
from the fate that they had eaten the sheep that was killed. And there they made a solemn oath,
to his custom, by the sun, to sustain the order of chivalry and the defense of Cuzco die, if
need be, and then opened the ears, making them so great that has a Dell moans each round, and done
this a heads ponens fierce lion, and return with a roar at the plaza of Cuzco, where he was
a great chain of gold, which encircled the whole, being supported by posts of silver and gold
in the comedy Desta square dancing and they made very great parties in his own way, walking
those who were to be men covered with the heads of lions, I have said, for that would imply
brave and fierce as are those animals. Putting an end to these dances, they are armed gentlemen,
and are called dried apricots, and have their privileges, and enjoy great freedom, and are worthy,
if elected, to take the crown, the fringe forests, which when given to Mr it must be the rule,
are major holidays, and joins a large number of people, and which is to be emperor has first to
take his own sister to wife, state Becausethe lineage does not happen in real low, and makes
the zaziy large tanks fast. And in the interest of these things happen, because the Lord being
held in the sacrifices and fasting does not come to understand in private business and governance,
was law among the Incas, that when any fallescia, or was given to another crown or tassel, which
could indicate one of the leading men of people and had mature advice and great authority to rule
the entire empire the Incas, as the Lord Himself during those days, and to this that he was
permitted to have hablalle guard and reverence. And this is done, and received the blessings
in the temple Curicancha receives the tassel, which was great and came out of llautu he had in
his head covering his to fall over his eyes, and this was played and revered sovereign. And
at the holidays were the main men who had more than five leagues sent Quellos and parescia Cuzco
very great wealth in gold and silver, and precious stones and feathers, encompassed the entire
large chain of gold, and the admirable figure of the sun, which was all of such greatness, weighing,
to certainly what the Indians say, more than four million pounds of gold, and if she did not tassel
in Cuzco, had the Inca named a joke, without your lordship indeed [29] and thus is not counted
Atahuallpa king, but as it was so valuable and killed so many people, was obeyed for fear of
many nations.

Returning to the Quest in Guanacaure Hill after he said Ayar Cachi hobo them the way they were
to have to be knighted, The Indians, who, looking against his brother Ayar Manco, told him to
go with the two women of the valley that you There was, where he later founded the Cuzco, not
forgetting to come to make sacrifices that place as he had first prayed, and as this hobiese said,
so he and the other brother became two stone figures, which showed men have sizes, which have
seen by Ayar Manco, taking their wives, came to where now is the Cuzco, he found the city, naming
and calling out Manco Capac dende, which means king and lord rich.

I Reídome what I have eScript these Indians, I tell my what they escriptura told to me by him,
and before that nests remove a lot less alone. Then as Manco Capac hobiese seen what had happened
to his brothers, and came to the valley where now is Cuzco, looking up to heaven, that pedia
apricots say with great humility the sun that will encourage and help in the new population wanted
to do, and that turned eyes towards the hill of Guanacaure, pedia do the same to his brother,
who already had and revered by God, and looking at the flight of birds and the signs of stars
and other wonders full of confidence, holding it for certain that the new settlement was to
flourish, and he be della taken by founder and father of the Incas that she had to reign. And
so, in name of your Ticiviracocha and sun and other gods, made the foundation of the new city, the
original and the beginning of which was a small stone house thatched Manco Capac with their wives
did, which they named Curicancha, who wants fencing gold say, where was that after so famous and
so rich temple sun, and that now is convent of friars of the Order of St. Dominic, and tiénese
certainly in questo time by Manco Capac Inca to, had in the region of Cuzco Indians in quantity,
but as he did not bother me a bad or no, did not prevent the stay on their land, formerly
rejoiced with him, and so, Manco Capac understood to make the house and said, and was given
to their religion and worship of their gods, and was of great presumption and who represented
great authority.

One of his wives was barren, never undertaken, in the other [30] three sons hobo and a daughter,
was named the greatest Inca Roca Inca, and daughter Ocllo, and the names of the other two more
have neither say that the eldest son married his sister, to whom was it they had to do to
be loved and not hated the natives, and other big things. At this time, it had become powerful
Hatuncollao descendants Zapana, and tyranny wanted to take all that region. As the founder of
Cuzco, Manco Capac, hobo married to his sons and associates of his service some people with love and
good words with which magnified Curicancha house, after having lived
for many years, died being very old, and we were made the obsequies
with all sumptuosidad, failing which made a package for reverencialle
like a son of the sun.

CAP.

Although he could write what happened in the reign of Inca Roca Sinchi [31], the son the son
of Manco Capac, founder of Cuzco, in this place, I left, thinking the front would have quen confusion
to know entirely how it was taken into the governorship of these gentlemen, because ordered a few laws
and other others, and thus put a mitimaes and other fittings men of war in areas prescribed
in the kingdom's defense, and because they are all things great and worthy of memory, and for
the republics governed by large lawyers and men, desto take notice, and each other devise admiration,
whereas as in barbarians and had no letter was found that a certain know that hobo and in
government and in subduing the land and nation, because under a monarchy Obey a man who was
only worthy to reign sovereign in the Inca empire had, which were more than two hundred miles
and miles of coastline, well, not to vary that that some say that certain Dellos constituted
what one and others another, in which many vary natural, put in this place that I understood
and I have indeed, according to the dello relationship that took in the city of Cuzco and the
relics that we have been WITH THESE all things in Peru habemos walked. Do not look to the letores
that in making this I leave the order that the book should be leading, so that they understand
more clearly what sets, as stated, and this will very soon, not wanting
to do small things to count, you always run away, and so, I will continue
to treat herself the reign of the Incas and succession of them, until
the death of Huascar and the Spanish entry is over.

Y I want you to know that this may read, that of all the Incas, who were eleven, three left bastantísimos
including for the governorship of his lordship, who have not just dried apricots of loarlos,
and these are not Paresce in both conditions as in the trial, which are Huayna Capac, Inca Tupac
Yupanqui, his father, who Inca Yupanqui, a father and grandfather of another. And also it can
be assumed, that because these were so modern that the kingdom is filled Indians who knew Tupac
Inca Yupanqui, and he walked in the wars, and his parents heard what Inca Yupanqui did at
the time of his reign, could be these things, views [32] almost eyes, have more fire power
to tell, and what happened to the others Gentlemen, your proxinitores, dello have long since
forgotten.
 

After the aforesaid, have great sacrifices that were made in Pachacama by Tupac Inca Yupanqui,
and large celebrations, which last, he turned back to Cuzco on a path that was done, what
you will get the Xauxa Valley, which runs through the snowy mountains of Pariacaca, which is something
to see and feel his greatness, and how large steps are, and today are and among those snows,
to get through. And visiting the provinces of the highland and providing and rearranging the
most convenient for good governance, who is close to Cuzco, to where he was received with
great feasts and dances, and made great sacrifices in the temple for their victories.

Chincha province in the past was much in this kingdom of Peru, and most populated People, therefore,
that before this one time with their masters had left and joined himself to the Collao, where,
with great spoil that hobieron, turned back to his province, where they were and were always
estimated their neighbors, and feared. The father of Tupac Inca Inca, is said Soras sent from
a captain with warriors, called Capac Inca, to obtain Chincha attract the lordship of his own:
but, although he was and what he tried, was low partly because got a weapon, and so it wanted
to defend, quel orejon, the best he could, returned, and were not seeing any captain until Tupac
Inca Inca subjugated, to what T hose same tale, for I do not know about this more than they
themselves.

Returning to the purpose, as Tupac Inca reached the Cuzco hobiese, as eScript, after to be loose
and have given to their hobbies seemed like days, sent it back to People call, with the intention
of ending the Lady Indians of Los Llanos. His command was met, and appeared in Cuzco speedily
masters of the provinces with people of war who were to bring, and put in order after the city
and what more King had to provide, out of Cuzco and down to the plains by way of Guaytaray. Knowing
its way, many were waiting for him with the intention of taking him as Lord, and many willing
to give him war and try to keep [it] in the freedom they had. In the valleys of the Nazca people
had back and ready against war.

Tupac Inca arrived, hobo embassies and talks between them, and although there were some stubbornness
and guerrillas, were content with what the Inca Dellos wanted by the foundation (and) that
hiciesen fortified houses and hobiese mitimaes, and pay tribute to what they put. And here was
the Inca to the valley of Ica, where he found more resistance in the Nazca, but, wisdom enough [to]
do, without war, enemies friends, and were broken as the last. In Chincha waiting if the Inca
were going to the valley, made more than thirty thousand men on the point of war, and hoped
to curry favor with the neighbors. Tupac Inca, as he knew, he sent messengers, with great presents for
the lords and masters and principals, said the ambassadors that of his party's hiciesen great
offers, and chelate did not want war with them, but peace and brotherhood, and other things
to this pass. The Chincha heard what the Inca he said, and received him his present, and were
for him some principal with what was in the valley and talked to him and sought the friendship
so that peace was settled, and Chincha weapons and were left to Tupac Inca, then moved to Chincha.
This counted mesmos Chincha Indians of Cuzco and the dried, other Indians from other provinces
have heard have it otherwise, because they say large hobo war more I believe that without it
was for Lord of Chincha.

Inca come to this valley, so great and beautiful saw it, was delighted. He praised the customs
of the natives, and with loving words I begged them to take those of Cuzco which would see them
add up, and they obeyed him and contented throughout, and given seat when it had to do, went
to Ica, where he was to what they call the Guarco, because questa knew war and turned around,
and it was true, because the natives of those valleys, taking little by their neighbors because
they had so unnerved and do not see why, given possession of their lands to stranger king, and
gathered a lot of courage, having made houses pucaraes strong in the part belonging to it,
near the sea, where they put their wives and children. And walking [188] the Inca with their
people in order, who is close to where they were their enemies, and sent their embassies to
big games, and sometimes threats and fierce, but did not want to go through the law of their neighbors,
who was foreign to Acknowledge, and with each other, the use of these parts, locked the war
and spent great things from them. And come the summer and hiciesen great heat, the people of
the Inca adolesció that was because he agreed to withdraw, and so, with more sanity as he could,
did, and those of Guarco out of its valley, and took their maintenance and meals, and turned to
sow the fields, and they made weapons and aparejábanse for, if the
Cuzco should come against them, found them apercebidos.

Tupac Inca Cuzco stirred about, and as men are of so little evidence, they saw than the Guarco
were left with what they tried, he began to have news from some of them, and rebelled and departed
from the service some of the Inca .-- These were natural valleys up the same coast .-- All the
king went to hearing, and what remained of that summer, he understood to make calls and send
people out to apricots were all over the kingdom to visit the provinces, and determined to win
the dominion of Guarco, though about it ingrowth was evident harm. As autumn came and went past
the heat of summer, with The more people who might join, down to the Plains and sent their ambassadors
to the valleys of them, afeándolos his unsteadiness in presuming he is up against, and they
were amonestóles firm in their friendship, where not, certificóles that the war would make cruel.
And how to get at first Guarco Valley, in Halden saw, he commanded his people to found a city
​​to which his name Cuzco, as his chief seat, and the streets and hills and squares were the
real name. He said that even cattle would quel Guarco the native subjects of his, had to remain
the new settlement, and that it always People had to be quartered, and then hobo who did what
on what was ordered, moved with his people to where they were the enemy, and besieged it, and
so firm were in purpose, never wanted to come to any party, and had his war, which was so long,
saying that lasted three years, the summers of which the Inca went to Cuzco, leaving people quartered
in the new Cuzco he had done, that was always against the enemy.

And so, one to be gentlemen, and the other for not being slaves, tried to leave with his intention,
but finally, after three years, the Guarco were emaciated, and Inca, who met him, I again sent
ambassadors to them that they were all friends dijiesen and colleagues, quel did not want to marry
their sons but his daughters, and the resulting, sustener confederation all very equal, and other
things such deception, Paresce to Tupac Merescian grand Inca punishment for having given so much
work, and the Guarco, Paresce could no longer sustain many days, and that conditions would be
made by the Inca better to enjoy peace and quiet, gave what the Inca king wanted, who should not,
since leaving the fort, were the key to reverence him, and without thinking, commanded his people
that kill them all, and they put him with great cruelty at the hands, and slew all the major
and most honest men them who were there, and in they were not, also be carried out the sentence,
and killed as many as today, we have the descendants Dell and large piles of bones that there
are witnesses, and we believe that what about this account is what you see eScript.

This done, he ordered the Inca king and a graceful strength that so I told in Part [189]. Settled
the valley and put mitimaes and governor, having heard embassies which came from the Yuncas
and many mountain, commanded want to ruin the new Cuzco had been done, and all the people turned
around for the city of Cuzco, where he was received with great joy, and made great sacrifices to praise
him in the temple and oracles and therefore he was glad the town with parties and drinking and
táquis Solenoid.

As Tupac Inca reached the Cuzco hobiese with such great victories as has eScript, was some days
rejoiced at their feasts and drinking with their wives and concubines, who were many, and
their children, including growing up Huayna Capac, who was to be king and came out very courageous
and spirited. After the holidays, the great Tupac Inca thought of giving sight Collao and rule the earth
that could front more, and to do so, he issued apercebiesen people everywhere, and many tents
hiciesen sleeping in desert places. Y began to come with their masters, and to the round alojábanse
Cuzco, without entering the city ​​other than the law does not proibia, and to each other and
to dutifully provided everything you need, taking into account this great governors and providers
MESMA city. And as hobiesen together all those who had to go to war, is made sacrifices their gods,
according to his blindness, making wizards, who knew of the oracles the end of the war, and
made a general and very splendid treat, Tupac left Cuzco Inca in the city leaving his lieutenant
and his eldest son Huayna Capac, and spare grand [190] and majesty, so Collasuyo walked, visiting
the seals and real drums, and rejoice by the peoples of the Canas and Canches.

Entering in the Collao, walked up Chucuito, where the lords of the earth together him to make
merry, and had its good order all collection and supply of maintenance without who miss more
than three hundred mill people who were on their real. Some lords Collao offered to go for
their people with the same saddle Inca, and with that said, came In malaria Titicaca, and
Loo to those who understood the works of the buildings that his father commanded to do, how well
they had done. In the temple made great sacrifices, and gave the idol priests and rich gifts,
according to so great a lord as he was. He returned to his people and walked throughout the
province to leave della Collao, sent his messengers to all nations of Charcas, Carangas and more
people who are in those lands. Dellas, flocked around him to serve and others to you make
war, but though it was given, his power was so great that enough to the subjugation, using the
conquered of great mercy, and with which it came, much love. In Paria sent to large buildings,
and do the same elsewhere. And some had Inca Tupac go to great things, many of which deprives
the forgetfulness, the need to have letters, and I summarily put something of how much we know
from what we hear and see, that here we are, what happened.

Going ahead of the Charcas victorious, went through many lands and depopulated provinces and large snow,
until he came to what we call Chile, and lorded over and conquered all the lands, in which they
say they came to the river Maule. As of Chile made some buildings and tributáronle of regions
much gold in ingots. Governors and mitimaes left, and since in order you had won, he returned to
Cuzco.

Towards the Levante sent apricots warned, in the dress of merchants, who would look for hobiese
lands and what the people sent, and ordered these other things, returned to Cuzco, in which
contend that turned to go out after a few days, and with people who agreed lead, went into
the Andes, and spent the grand work of the mountain wilderness, and conquered some villages in
that region, and sent many crops of coca plant, and which led Cuzco,
where he turned around.

And they say past few days, gave him some evil that caused his death, and commending his son
the government of the kingdom and their wives and children, and saying
other things, he died.

And there were great tears and feeling so remarkable from Quito to Chile, strange forests
thing to hear what the Indians on that count.

Where or in what place he is buried not say. That have killed large number of women and servers
and pages to get to him with so much treasure and jewels, which had mounted more than one million,
and would be little, because individual lords were buried some of them over a hundred miles
from Castile. Without so much that people got into his grave and hanged buried many women
and men in different parts of the kingdom, and everywhere were crying for an entire year and
is shorn of most of the women, putting all ropes esparto, and finish the year, came to make
their reputations. And what they say they used to I do not want to because they are nations,
and the Christians Quest in Cuzco year of fifteen hundred and fifty,
remember what they saw was made by the honors and After years of Inca
Paulo, with it having become Christians, and bring forth what would
in time the reign of former kings, rather than lose their sovereignty.

CAP. LXI .-- Of how he reigned at Cuzco Huayna Capac who was the Inca king dozen.

Dead king was the great Inca Tupac Yupanqui, is understood to make their funeral rites and burial
the use of their elders, with great pomp. And have the apricots, which secretly plotted between
freedom to collect some past and hold it the command of the Incas, and in fact leave with what
they intended, if not for the very quick, which gave the governors of the Inca with people
of mitimaes and captains, they could sustain such a troubled time and had no king, they had
charged last nickel. Huayna Capac not neglected or failed to meet that he must show courage to
keep it that his father worked so hard won. Then it came to making the fast, and the city will
ruling was faithful and loyal. Have not stopped some confusion among the Incas mesmos, because
some children of Tupac Inca, have occurred in other Coya women, wanted to pretend to be [191]
the kingship, but the people who Vian was with Huayna Capac, not consent, but interfered with
the punishment that was done. Finish fasting, Huayna Capac went with tassel very gallant and
dressed, and made the cirimonias used by their past, to which the
name of king wore, and so loud voices they said [192]: Inca Huayna
Capac Zapalla tucuillacta Uya, which means, "Huayna Capac only is
king Øyan unto him all peoples.

"

Huayna Capac was, as they say many Indians saw him and knew of no very great body but bent and
well done, good and very serious face, a few words, many facts was righteous and punished without
restraint. I wanted to be as feared, that night I dreamed of Indians. Ate as they use, and
so lived cycle of women, if you can tell, hear to those who spoke well, and believed very light:
long deprived him of flatterers and flattering, that among them there were plenty, and today
there is no longer, and gave ear to lies, was the reason that many died without guilt. For
the young men who slept meat tempted to their wives or concubines, or with which they were in
the temple of the sun, then sent them to kill to them, and to punish them equally. For those who
punished him by riots and mutinies, deprived of estates, giving them to others, from other causes,
was punishment .-- Many people only desto conceal his father, especially the women, that when
he took one with them, young men said they were .-- His mother of Huayna Capac, leading lady,
wife and sister who was Inca Tupac Yupanqui, called Mama Ocllo say that was of great prudence,
and warned her son that she saw many things to do to Tupac Inca, and loved him so much that
he begged not to go to Quito and to Chile, until she was dead, and so, do you have that pleasure
and obey his command, was at Cuzco without leave until she died and was buried with grand pomp, getting
in his grave many treasures and fine clothes and their wives and servants. The treasures of the
Incas more deaths and estates, which called Chaco, everything was entirely from the first,
and none dared to spend and do not touch because they did not have wars between and needs the money
hobiese of remedy, for where we believe there are great treasures in the bowels of the earth lost, and
so will be forever, if perchance, one, building or doing something
else, do not bump into something much there.

CAP. LXII .-- How Huayna Capac left Cuzco and what he did.

Huayna Capac had ordered Paresce before him to the chief lords of natural provinces, and while
his court full of them, he married his sister Chimbo Ocllo and therefore were big parties, leaving
the crying for the death of Tupac Inca were done. And finished, he ordered him to go aside up
to fifty thousand men of war with whom I wanted to go together to visit the provinces of his
kingdom. As commanded, stood by the work, and left Cuzco with more pomp and authority than his
father, for the litter would be so rich, to the assertions of those who carried the king on his shoulders,
had not price of the precious stones so large and many who were in them, without the gold that
Heran made.

And it was through the provinces of Xaquixaguana and Andaguaylas, and associates of the Soras
and Lucanas [193] where embassies sent to many parts of the plains and mountains, and was answered
Dell and others, with great presents and offerings.

He returned from those places to Cuzco, where he was understood to make big sacrifices the sun
and those who had more gods, which were favorable to the day I wanted do, and gave great gifts
to the idols of the buried treasures, and knew of the liars, by the
said of demons, or because they invented it, it had to happen prosperously
in days I wanted to do, and would return to Cuzco with great honor
and profit.

This finish in many parts of people came with their guns and captains, by his order, and housed in the
city were provided.

In the building of the fortress was understood, while the styling for this day none reported. In
the plaza of Cuzco was the grand chain of gold, and there was great dancing and drinking; and,
next to the stone of the war, were named captains and bossy, as his custom; and ordering, Huayna
Capac had a parliament, well ordered and said with vehement words, on it were loyal and those
who were with him, as those who remained. Responded that of service not be leaving, which
gave the loo and I hope to make large grants. And being rigged for the day what was needed,
left Cuzco with everyone of war who had gathered, and a big road, so proud as today Paresce,
all here because of what we see and walk by him, walked towards the Collao, showing the provinces
have passed in just the great services rendered him, for they say that It said that the Incas
everything they owe. Understood to know what gave him tribute, and possibility of the province
collected many women, the most beautiful that could be found; Dellas
took for himself, and others gave to his captains and private, the
others were placed on the temple of the sun and stored there.

Entering the Collao, brought him realize that he had large herds of cattle, and how many loads
of fine wool mill were taking a year to those that made the clothes for your home and service.
On the island of Titicaca came in and ordered great sacrifices. In Chuquiabo [194], ordered Indians
were shelves with their suppliers to take gold metal with the order and regiment has been eScript.
Going forward, he ordered the Charcas and other nations to the Chichas bring forth out large
amount of silver pastes, which are taken to Cuzco on your own, without nothing missing; transport
some mitimaes of a party to another, although there were days that were accommodated; ordered
that all work and no loose, because they said the land where there were lazy, did not think anything
but how to find scandals and corrupt honesty women. He went, ordered to build inns and places,
giving his hand the trace; terms distributed to many provinces and known limit, so that, for
aventajallo not should come to blows. His warriors, though much, was so adjusted, that did not come
out the real one step, as they went, the natives provided what is necessary so dutifully, that
was what was left to what was spent. In some places built bathing and other reserves, and the
deserts were great houses. Inca quel everywhere wrong, he had done such things, it is admiration
count.

When they wandered punished without missing ignore anything and pander to those who served
him well.

Sort these things and went from the provinces subjective agora to the Villa de la Plata, and at Tucuman
[195] sent people to war captains to the Chiriguanos, but do not was good, because turned and fled.
Moreover, towards the South Sea, sent more people other captains, to that dominated the valleys
and villages of all his father could not conquer. He was walking with all his people towards Chile,
putting an end to tame, he went, people he had. He spent much work
for the wilds and the snow was a lot of them fell; awnings had to
be guarescer and many yanaconas and women of service. For all these
snow was becoming the way, or was done, and very clean, and posts
made by him. From the galley accelerated
that made the trip ran to the palace of Onís and precautions to not impress too told the betrothal.

The
colonel was preoccupied at times with his face tucked into his hands.

-
What time is it? - Asked out.

- The twelve just given.

- Let's see,
soon, my uniform! - Said with a strange energy in without assistance.

-
Ray of God!

Then, my uniform! - Turned to utter with violence, seeing that no one moved.

The countess went to the cupboard and brought to an end.

It was quickly dressed, put on your chest the band of Carlos III
and all the crosses he had won.

There were so many that not fitting in the left side, had to go some to the right. In this
way he was led to Street barreled window locks, and there stood up.

They soon leave Mass the faithful of twelve, the most popular of which were held on Sundays. All
they could see from afar that strange figure, the corpse dressed in full uniform. And with
a feeling of awe, respect and compassion, all marched in silence under the window, unable to
separate her eyes. For three consecutive Sundays Colonel had the strength to get up and back
on the same site. There was still half still time flaunting their badges with ecstatic eyes
in a vacuum, without seeing or hearing the crowd who gathered in front of the palace and showed him
held each other serious and painful excitement. The fourth wanted to do the same, he joined
with violence to you dress, but immediately fell back on the pillows to rise no more. At night
gave his soul to God that brave and honorable soldier.

Poor father! The count could not remember that scene, which had been deeply impressed in his
brain, without tears crowded to her eyes. He had inherited from the exquisite delicacy of feeling,
a susceptibility that was becoming sick, no serenity, initiative, the unshakable firmness that
enhanced the soul of Colonel Field.

The current Earl had an overly sensitive and gentle temperament, background, honesty and shame it
was the moral heritage of the Country. But these qualities are offset by one character weak, great,
gloomy, which come to him, no doubt, from the family of his mother.

Ms María Gayoso, widow Countess de Onis, daughter of baron Oscos was an original being, exceptionally
so original that bordered on the unbelievable. In his entire family, from three or four generations
to her at least, had noted something bizarre in some of its members
played on the edge of insanity and other entered fully inside.

His grandfather atheist had been an inveterate supporter of Voltaire and the Encyclopedia
that last minute had given to drunkenness, according to the town council was dragged by one
day demons to hell. Actually died of spontaneous combustion, which could to fuel like fable. His
father was a fool to whom her mother, a woman of unusual energy, had always enslaved to degradation.
 The
Ministry of War, the Management of the Weapons and other military facilities were full of soldiers
and officers, protected by recommendations, had found means to circumvent his bad luck, getting
rid of joining their battalions, and the abuse took such proportions that it was necessary
to avoid it.

When stakeholders were calmer, he ordered that, within three days, all individuals placed on
the premises of the Ministry in the past six months hospitalized in their bodies, whatever their
origin and how this meant the inevitable accuracy out to operations overnight, Pepe decided carry
out its purpose. Regarding his father, had everything planned: what was was made as simple
as sad a stretcher to transport you on Engracia house, and carry then his bed, his clothes and
some furniture, preserved more useful than for sellers. The difficulty was in determining
to take Dona Manuela and Leocadia. What would you do? To persist in following up on the streets
of keypads, with what resources? And to find another room, what means would have? Not hide
the clear understanding Pepe who, though sick of reason, should not be thrown into the street
to his mother and sister, but also saw that the fanaticism of Dona Manuela and subsequent behavior
could result in Leocadia during his absence, the total abandonment of the poor old man.

- You speak to them - Pepe said Miller, trying this. I lack courage, and may also I miss calm.

- I see your mother ... With Leo did not speak.

- Whatever.

- When
you think that we have the transfer to your father?

- This is done
in one morning.

The main thing is that you speak.

If God touched my heart! What do I do not want to leave the house?

... and although they lend themselves, where are they to put in and how will they live? It seems
incredible that we've got to have to think about it!

Miller did not seek to Dona Manuela at home, not to see Leocadia, but eager to meet the difficult
task of Pepe, went to the alms of light. The first trip was made in vain: Dona Manuela refused
to receive him. At the second attempt, he was told not to leave because he was in worship, but said
the chaplain prayed, his son, which had fit.

Miller came on the same visiting room where he was received days before Pepe, when he sought
see his mother, and within minutes was tabled Tirso. Despite the dead, for work the affection of
Engracia, Millan was the love of Leocadia, the presence of the priest was impressed unpleasantly,
even tougher in his anger toward the man, that wiped with their first loves. Thus no resistance
to dealing with the priest: the opportunity came unceremoniously shot to treat and also understood
it was better with him than his mother, whose goodness there was morning, and shortness of
understanding which would not have, of fixed, fixed. I
mean, without equivocation, that those who are fasting all philosophical knowledge, if you tend moreover,
as often happens today, to fall in love with the foreign, may accept for gold alchemy and consider
any extravagance or folly as the ne plus ultra of speculative research and human knowledge.

Neither
my limited intelligence or soon to be consent to have this item,
say case, I challenged the doctrines of Schopenhauer here in the published
book whose title is on the will in nature.

But you can not legitimately fear, not only falsehood of doctrine, but the hollowness or emptiness
that it can be seen, based on pure play words and call things or their qualities with names that
have never had in Castilian at least? What on earth will is that it ignores itself and ignores
what he wants and produces, however, the universe and the laws of mathematics, physical and
moral, not doubt, will govern? How this will without consciousness comes the awareness? How was the
understanding of what that means? How many laps is given to an object, it will sprout something
that is not in germ in him and not bring out of it besides the substance and strength and the
law for the development of the germ are required? In short, this will unconsciously Because
first of all, it seems to me, profane, an unintelligible babble.

And do not accuse me of disrespectful to the very famous and admired scholars nations more educated.
Schopenhauer teaches the same lack of respect, but our restraint
and we do not accept complimentary but a little of their lessons.

Almost all teachers of philosophy at the universities of Germany, puts it like dominos sucks,
treating envy, plagiarists, for fools and so interested that conceal the truth and teach the
lie for fear of losing the position and the salary they receive.
 Lloyd George was in action.

I had last seen him a year ago in the murk of a London railway station when I bade him farewell
after a memorable day. 

The wind was thickest at the crossing of Santa Barbara than in any other place of population.
This road is open between the bishop's palace and the walls of a patinejo of cathedral, where
it is to drop the chain lightning, goes to completion under a bow and a dark bend in the hurricane
encalleja and cries and laments at night as hellish as this.

A man muffled to the eyes quickly crossed the square in front of the house of bishops and entered
into this corner. Hurricane force arrested him, and rain, penetrating between the fold of the coat
and hat, he was deprived of sight. Resisted a moment to walk sign the fury of the blast, and
instead of releasing a strong interjection, never was more the case, let out a sigh of anguish.

-
Oh, my Jesus, what a night!

He leaned against the wall, and when the wind calmed his impulses kept going. Passed under arc
that connects the palace with the cathedral and entered into the better off and enlightened of the
voyage. An echo of oil set in the corner served to illuminate the whole. The poor fellow made
futile efforts, supported by a large tin butterfly, to send some clarity to the confines of its
jurisdiction. But, beyond ten yards in radio, nothing raising suspicion of their presence. However,
we must have seemed a lamp wrapped Edison ten thousand candles, judging by the care with which even
got her veil and the haste with which left the sidewalk to walk adhered to the wall of the courtyard
in the shadows thickened. Released in this fashion to the streets of Santa Lucia, glanced quickly
from one side to another, and ran back to the darkest place. Santa Lucia Street, to be the
most central, is also the loneliest. Is close to completion at the base of the tower the basilica,
slim and elegant as few in Spain, and usually serves only way the canons that go to the choir
and the devotees who come to Mass at dawn.

On this street, short, straight, poorly paved and old village, stood the palace Quiñones Leon. It
was a big factory dark baroque facade with projecting iron balconies. It had two floors, and on the
central balcony of a huge shield worked first coarsely and defended by two giants in high
relief as crude as their barracks.

One of the side walls fell on small wet garden, neglected and sad and closed by a regular wall of
elevation, the other on a street even more wet and dirty open between home and the black wall
and peeling of the Church of San Rafael. To switch palace to the church, where the platform had
reserved Quiñones, there was a bridge or broker closed, smaller, but similar to what the bishops are
on the journey of Santa Barbara. Clearly alive by leaving a slit to pass the half-open balcony
warned that homeowners were not yet delivered to the rest. And if the accused clearly did not, acusábanlo
more clearly the muffled sounds of a piano that was left inside when you hear the heartbeat I
consented furious hurricane.

Our wrapped followed briskly and hiding in the shadows as he could, to palace gate. There he
stopped, turned to take a look suspicious to them both sides of the street, and went resolutely
to the portal. It was large, pebble-paved as street, smooth and whitewashed walls of a long time,
sadly lighted by a lamp oil hanging in the center. The muffled through him swiftly, and without
pulling the cord hood hit his ear against the door, so that was still some moments listening.
Made sure no one was down, turned to the front door and headed another look for it. Resolviose
finally opened her veil and drew from under a package layer deposited on soil with a trembling
hand, near the door. It was a basket. It was covered with a blanket of women, which could not observe
what was kept there, although I suspected. From Moses, the mysterious baskets seem destined
to save infants. The batter, and desarrebozado, threw three times the bell cord, and instantly,
from above, opened by another string. The three bells indicated that he entered the aristocratic
Quiñones mansion was a noble, a pair of gentlemen. Time was the establishment of this custom,
not knowing how. A workman, a servant, a subordinate, for any reason, but did not call a bell
called with two visits, and the half dozen or so Nobleman of people that Mr. Quinones considered
his equal in Lancia did three, by agreement tacit or express, that never was found. Whispering
in the city this difference: those who had never walked the halls of the house, those who
teased visited them daily, they responded by denying the species, but even secretly humiliated
respected the feudal custom, no one was daring to give the three strokes of the second estate.
Paco Gomez ventured only once to make a joke or boast, but to reach room was received with surprise
and so contemptuous coldness, were you not want to repeat.

The man hurried into the basket and close the door, crossed the porch
and up by the large stone staircase on whose steps are worn by use
constantly oozing some moisture.

On reaching the main floor a servant came to fetch him the cape and hat. And without further
ado, as if someone chased him, threw himself in haste to the door plant the room and opened it.
The bright light of the chandeliers and candelabra darkened him instantly. Was a tall, burly, thirty
to thirty-two years of age, appearance and sweet regular features: hair cut spending at the
point of scissors and luenga beard, blond and silky. At that moment his face was pale and showed
deep concern.

As he raised his eyes, too clearly that forced him to shut down, straightened
look the lady of the house, sitting in an armchair.

She in turn stared at him another intense and anxious. It was a shock that instant gave rest
to their faces, like two forces equal to neutralized. The gentleman stopped at the door waiting
to cross five or six pairs who came spinning to the beat of a waltz, and her lips were folded
with a smile faded so sweet and sad.

- What an afternoon!

We did not expect you to come and - said Mrs. holding out his hand fine nerve, which contracted
three or four times with intense emotion to collide with it.

She was a woman of twenty to thirty years, petite body, pale face
and expressive eyes and very black hair, small mouth and nose slightly
aquiline.

- How are you, Amalia? - Said the gentleman, without answering
the cry, hiding anxiety in a smile that shone through his grief was
as tremulous voice.

- I'm better ... Thank you very much.

- Does
not it make you damage this noise?

- No ... I was very bored in bed
... Besides, would not deprive the girls of the only recreational
which currently have in Lancia.

- Thank you, Amalia - exclaimed a
young woman who had been dancing and heard the last words the lady.

This gave him a kindly smile.

Another couple was behind collided with the gentleman, who was still standing.

- You always clogging, Luis!

- Nobody but you, Maria Josefa - the young man, laughing to cover
up involvement still felt pregnant.

- Are you sure it only me? -
She asked while raising his leer to the gentleman who took her in
his arms.

Josefa María Hevia was already at least forty years, and fifteen were almost as ugly despite saying,
as his forties.

As also did not have enough finances to restore balance, no courage had come to redeem the purgatory
of being single.

Up short time ago still flattered by the hope that, if not a chicken, at least throw to ask her
some of the Indians who were arriving singles to settle in Lancia. Fundábala in the trend they
showed to marry the daughters of distinguished families of the population, but they should take
dowry. She belonged to the male line to one of the most illustrious, as a relative of Mr. Quinones,
whose we are home. But his father had died, and lived with his mother, low-class woman, cook
before entering the bridal chamber of his master. Whether by this or, more likely, well stated
and the proverbial ugliness of his figure, nor the Indians chopped bait the hook. And yet,
with or without cause, usually low-cut over the account to ostensible which, according to public
voice, was less wrong with your body. The face was repulsive, factional incorrect, swollen
with erysipelas We often disfigured by some red flares he rose to his nose. Female of his dreams
he had nothing left but one, that of dance: it was a passion: suffering horribly neglected whenever
the chickens Lancia let her eat turkey. But revenge is so beautifully from them and they possessed a
language so steely that most of the young men sacrificed at least one dance soirees at all: when neglected,
these girls remembered him, fearing the wrath of the fierce maid. Dancing, as well as the most
beautiful damsel Lancia for the opposite reason, ie the healthy who had managed to inspire
terror. She knew, and even humiliated in the depths of the soul, not left to take advantage,
choosing which concluded lesser of two evils. He had shrewd and malicious spirit, looked great
ridicule of the actions recounted with grace and was also equipped with a special gift for each
person hurt when he fancied, to the quick.

- Have you already reached the count? - Said a gruff voice coming out of the next cabinet and overcame
to click the piano and the footsteps of the dancers.

- Yes, here I am, D. Pedro ... I go there.

The count took a step toward the cabinet, without looking away from the pale lady. You nailed it
another intense look that read a question.

He closed his eyes saying, and became immediate stay.

The same thing is that the room was furnished without luxury. The Founding Fathers Lancia disdained
these refinements of the set, as usual today. Not by greed but to understand rightly lay prestige
rather than wealth or richness of purple, the hallmark of respectable antiquity possessed,
refused them any innovation, the same internal than external. Aged furniture, tarnish, carpets
and curtains would be fraying. The owners appeared not to notice it. Above all, D. Pedro Quiñones
showed negligence in this respect that bordered on swagger. Neither the entreaties of his wife, nor the
indirect that some daring, as Paco Gomez, used to jokingly allowed, I decided never to call painters
and upholsterers. It is guessed that this resolution was influenced by the disdain with which looked
at the luxury displayed by some Indians in the furnishings in their homes.

The lounge, which is up to the dimensions, was superb, spacious, very high ceiling, occupied
all the balconies in the street of St. Lucia, except for the cabinet.

The old stalls, but not imitating forms of remote centuries, as now used, was built in the past
the taste of the time, and lined with green velvet and worn. The carpet weaving discovered in several
places. On the walls hung some magnificent tapestries. This was the luxury of home. D. Pedro
Quiñones had a collection of great value. Once used to display them year, hanging from balconies
on the Corpus for the passage of the procession. It was reported that an Englishman they had
offered him a million pesetas. Also had some pictures former merit, so obscured by time, if
a skilled hand did not come soon restore, conclude disappear. The only new thing in the room
had was the piano, purchased three years ago, shortly after marrying his second wife D. Pedro.

The
cabinet also large, with a balcony overlooking the street of St. Lucia and two of the garden,
scenery was worse yet. Large damask curtains, two oak cabinets without mirror silk-lined sofa,
some chairs of cowhide, a round table in the center and some chairs
for the sofa, all tattered and faded well.

Around the central table and lighted by large oil lamp with green screen, were three gentlemen
playing ombre. The homeowner was one of them. Would have forty-six to forty eight years old,
for three he was entirely unable to move, as a result of a stroke that paralyzed his legs. It
was big, brown face and features strongly marked, strong, his hair and beard, whitening and for
many points, strong abundant, curly, black eyes and sunken look awesome. In his appearance had
an expression of pride and ferocity that even the friendly smile that welcomed the Earl of
Onís able to extinguish it completely. I was leaning more than sitting in a chair built purposely
to facilitate the movement of the trunk and arms, and leaning to the side table so that it was possible
to play and have your legs extended. Although the fire burned some logs of wood, wrapped with
a gray Talma closed his neck snap gold. Embroidered on her side of the heart, there was a large
red cross of the Order of Calatrava. Mr. Quinones rarely dispensed this Talma, which made her
look a little beat and theatrical.

He had always been extravagant in dress. His pride led him to find a way to distinguish the vulgar.
On several occasions he saw closed coat, hat and clogs: spent long hair, like a knight of the
seventeenth century; We often wore velvet dress or corduroy riding boots, wearing boots when no one
remembered them, and large necks shirt turned on the vest, imitating the old flange. Never was man
more precious of nobility or more effort to revive the prestige and
privileges they enjoyed it in past centuries.

The crowd murmured their extravagances and many laughed at them, because Lancia is a town where there
are many humorous spirits, but as always happens, This hubris was over fierce prevailed. Those
who mocked more gracefully of the oddities of Don Pedro were the most submissive and removed his hat
performance so I saw half a league.

He had lived at the court some time during his youth, but it did not take root. He was a gentleman
with exercise and enjoyment of the benefits and privileges that his wealth and birth granted it,
but not enough to satisfy her heart swelled with pride. The strange amalgam of the aristocracy
of blood money to hurt him and irritated him. Respect to granted to politicians and that he was
obliged to pay taxes because of their by reddened with anger. A son of nowhere, a ragamuffins pass
him with head up, giving him a look indifferent or contemptuous!

To him, a direct descendant Sovereign of the counts of Castile! Not to suffer and the love he
professed for Lancia resigned employment and came to live again churrigueresco palace where we are.
Pride, or perchance his eccentric character, he did commit, at this period of his life mayorazgo
bachelor thousand extravagances and absurdities that amazed and were the delight of the city
until they become accustomed. D. Peter did not go out into the street never unaccompanied by
his servant or a steward, uncouth man, wearing the peasant costume of the country, ie short
pants with wool socks, flannel jacket and slouch hat green stripe. And not only Manin was dating
(by that name was universally known), but led him to theater. Was to see both a main stage, he, rigid,
right, casting her eyes distracted the room, the servant, with the palms of your hands on the railing
and beard on hands to the astonished eyes on the stage, dropping barbarian raucous laughter, yawning,
scratching his neck and screaming in the middle of silence. Came to him in cafes and even took
him to dances. Manin became an institution in a short time. D. Peter barely deigned to speak
to the wealthiest people of Lancia, held talk roll with him and admitted being contradicted
in the rough and rude manner that he could only.

- Manin, man, you're bothering to repair these ladies - told him maybe being found both at any
store.

- Well, well, because if they are to taste, bring home a mattress and lie down - responded the
barbarian aloud.

D. Peter bit his lip to hold the cloth, because it made such extreme
grace rudeness and brutality.

If I entered a cafe, Manin paneled downed red wine as he used to drink sparingly a glass of muscat. But
always ordered a bottle and pay, although leave almost full.

Showing some surprise by this prodigality an apothecary of the population to who ever deigned
to speak, replied with a cold arrogance

- Pay a bottle, because
it seems unseemly D. Pedro Quiñones de León ask for a drink any c.
.. inks political government offices.

Also caused surprise in the city that the clerics greet them kiss in the street hand, imitating the
custom of the nobles in other centuries.

This respect was not only a distinguish themselves and prove through his high rank, like everything
else. Because the chaplain at his service, even kissed her hand in
public, he was treated as a domestic in private.

 Calixto, gentle boy, rich
and noble, enters looking for a hawk, on the grounds of the proud and beautiful girl Melibea; love
with her, the need for love, and offended the lady in her modesty and pride, rough and crudely dismissed
him. Melibea and Callisto are both the same high status and the birth, for the gifts of fortune.
Among the families of both are not known to have enmity, as there was, say, between the families
of Romeo and Juliet. Neither difference class or religion, or the divided country. Why, then, did not
seek a person Calixto honored to intercede for him and the diversion of Melibea expires, and why
not then asked their parents and married her in peace and God's grace? Search for third Calixto
his love to a witch empecatada darning of wills and teacher of women of bad life, has something
monstrous that neither in the fifteenth century or any century, includes not being Calixto vicious
and evil and feeling very tender and poetic love.

Everything is understood, however, considering the Celestina tragicomedy as the first creation of a
new literary era in which fit certain inspired daring: an ideal scene, free conditions and requirements
and devoid of any nuisance and it does not appear to vague and confusing the characters, but
rather, to be more distinct and specific see, as figures are in high top and are highlighted
and drawn in the serene blue of cloudless sky. The arrows of love on the hearts hurt and rob
of the two lovers, do not break means weakens the initial momentum of his career, and there
is attraction of the earth or the sky that stops or on request. Fernando de Rojas disregards anything
but love, to express that love with all his strength and shine in all its glory. And is not
the love of souls, nor the love of the senses, captive of material beauty, but so tight and
intimate combination of the two lovers, no analysis to separate its elements, appearing as complicated
love with the irreducible simplicity the purest gold and pure.

Or what we now call social conventions, as existing in the fifteenth
century as in the day, nor required by the customs and laws, moral
or religion taken into account here.

Very licentious had to be that age where all dreams of chivalry of the Middle Ages, disquisitions
of the Court of passionate love and tenderness of the heroes of Table Redonda, of Lancelot and
Guinevere, Tristan and Isolde, mingled with the yearning for life and joys and the worship of beauty
yearning plastic that paganism had risen woken up and moved. This no doubt seething souls such
as musts in Cuba during tumultuous fermentation.

In short, Calixto and Melibea adore and is not hyperbole or rhetorical figure, but worship effective.
Out of his love do not see anything or nothing left.

Not recognize sin and there is room for repentance or amendment. Fate, in the midst of pleasure
and the glory of them; leads to tragic death, but in this very tragic death there are some grim
and gloomy, but there are some success. There is a high end of what Mr. Menéndez y Pelayo in another
recent letter of his, on Torres Propaladia Nahas, called the triumphant joy Spanish Renaissance.

Dead
Calixto, Melibea thrown from the top of a tower and is killed, but the bliss achieved and enjoyed
by both partners in their mutual and ardent embraces, is a light of glory which surrounds and provided
to the tragic, perhaps against the author's reflexive intention,
character of apotheosis.

So it is futile in my opinion, the purpose was Fernando de Rojas or supposed he had, to indoctrinate the
young lovers to not servants ISAF immoral and perverse flattering and mediators as Celestina.

The
humorous candor with which the writers of the old church often seek reason or excuse to justify
their compositions on gallant, cops and readers today wakes up in his mind the doubt whether
indeed they deceive in assuming that purpose or if you would claim as a joke. Notable example of
this gives the beneficiary Fernando Suarez, natural Seville and translator
of the Symposium of the ladies of Peter Aretino, book reprinted a
few days ha in Madrid by Mr. B. Rodríguez Serra.

Holds in all seriousness the beneficiary and translator than it does to moralize the world, which
so perverted walked in at that time as remote age in which God sent the flood to punish him.
But divine justice as understood by the beneficiary, does not like to repeat, but change and
invent new punishment when there are new sins. And so, instead of a flood, had sent in his time a
contagious disease which did great damage, and on which he wrote an elegant Fracastoro Latin
poem dedicated to Cardinal Bembo. Since this is, I can not find, nor do I think no one can accurately
explain that there are very helpful reminders for youths and antidote against the poison of sensuality
in a very shameless sets the ladies Colloquium concerned. Would you talk of fun, or really talk
about the benefit in holding that his book morigeraría young people better than the Milky
joyful spirit or the Ascent of Mount Zion, books they throw away without reading the title as
they found out?

Fernando de Rojas had, or imagines he had, in order to indoctrinate youth and departing vice.
If proved otherwise might well say that Fernando de Rojas benefited says, "that if young people
here take occasion of sin, guilt that is not of this work, but our poor condition, which, as very corrupt
stomach, medicine that is given to health makes it bad moods. "

Leaving aside our morals, so do not go wrong stop on this issue rather than be victorious,
and regardless of lawlessness also unlikely that serves basis for the love of Melibea and Calixto,
we may say that in all the details of tragicomedy is so stunning realism and expressed so well
observed and character painting and affections, not Spanish critics who could blind patriotic vanity,
but the most eminent critics of other countries, such as Gervinus
in his History of Poetry German, estimate the influence of La Celestina
in the novel and the drama of the modern age and understand that until
the appearance of Shakespeare was not deep in the earth observer or
more skilled painter of the human soul that the bachelor Fernando
de Rojas.

His characters all Celestina, Sempronius and Parmeno, Elicia, and the admirable Areusa Centurio
boastful pimp, are master hand painted and do and say what they owe. If all too quote the
classics, long on each step of the Philosophers and pedantic sentences with innocent refinement,
is so characteristic defect that time that more than grace and elegance defect seems the book and
provides indelible temporary color.

Fernando de Rojas does not very appropriate delicacies, inspired by or reflective. Passion Calixto
Melibea and can not be more vehement. The delight of possession arises in both could not be uploaded.
And with all that, the happiness of both, which the reader penetrates wrapped in clean, discreet
veil, without the author discovers the profane. The erotic detail keeps the author and used for
the scenes, events and meetings the secondary and commoners lovers; of Parmeno and Areusa, for
example.

Neat would be to highlight here the main beauties of La Celestina.

My article extend far beyond the dimensions in this paper is granted. Even finishing here, you
may be accused of having gone too. Oh my apology for the popularity that the most glorious century
Spain had so beautifully reprinted tragicomedy now: which became popular in the more aesthetic
value licentiousness of the case. Enough novels in dialogue, imitating that of Fernando de
Rojas, wrote later: some very remarkable elegance and grace of language, wit and jokes, and
leaving far behind La Celestina in its carefree vegetables.

La Comedia Serafina, also reprinted a few years was by Mr. Marquis of Valle and D. Fuensanta
José Sancho Rayon, testifies it. And yet, and Serafina Comedy, Comedy Selvagia and as many in the
same genre were composed, they have no low literary gem, which I have tried high price to recall
today on the occasion to display it again D. Eugenio Krapf as as correct and luxurious.

LIBRARY OF PHILOSOPHY AND SOCIOLOGY

Under the title as above expressed, Mr. DB Rodríguez Serra has begun publishing a collection of
books on philosophy, and that that ugly word, and hybrid call now sociology. Are published
only three volumes, but I, although poorly understood issues philosophical, like them a lot, I
did not slow my welcome to the aforementioned library, wishing you the best possible success
with our audience in Spain.

In the history of science first, and the history of every culture
have been written not a few books on foreign soil and in recent times.

The French, British and German, rightly or wrongly, have been dealt the most brilliant papers,
and attributed almost all philosophically fertile, our poor nation has proved sterile or nearly
sterile during the last four centuries, perhaps because of the Inquisition, our fierce intolerance
or our inability to things so sublime.

Filled with gloom humble us, we agreed for now the decision without protest or appeal. The view
that does not give us the card for philosophers has prevailed between the generality of our
legal people.

Fortunately, the reaction has occurred, and so hard in some spirits, you can do suspect to a fair and
critical cold is greater than the ground that hold water.

The most skilled and passionate supporters of the Spanish philosophy
has been, in my view, Don Gumersindo Laverde Ruiz, D. Nicomedes Martín
Mateos, D. Francisco de Paula Canalejas, Father Ceferino González
and recently D. Marcelino Menéndez y Pelayo.

However, despite the lessons that the latter is taking place in the Ateneo, and despite As has already
been written in his works on the aesthetic ideas and the heterodox, yet I understand that the
issue is not well elucidated.

Our most notable philosophers from the Renaissance to the day, written in Latin, rather little
is written, for all which neither have been faithful and light extracts of what they wrote,
or have been issued on this fair and well considered judgments, or the profane, in whose number
I count, we have come to learn with clarity and accuracy of its systems and doctrines. We know
that we have had, and we boast of having among our philosophers Luis Vives, Valles, Francisco
Victoria, the eminent doctor Suarez, Melchor Cano, Domingo de Soto, Foxo Morcillo, Gomez Pereira
and many others, but most people just started, knows little more than their names. However,
just know them and just know that good or bad such illustrious men have used in the study of philosophy
to reasonably presume that is not lost between we the fans in this study, and therefore, the books
of the Library Mr. Serra will be sold and read, and very sincerely we wish.

Another popular opinion, which goes very valid today contradicts the possibility that our desire
performed. Not a few people believe that philosophy gets smaller and consume conquered and
dismembered by the positive and exact sciences, which have been slowly
encroaching on their domain, annexation, and divided up as blessed
or unblessed bread.

But this is a unfounded vanity empirical scholars and the crowd that admires and follows. The
is reasonable to believe otherwise: that the more experimental knowledge extends, the more it
grows and magnified in the mind the concept of philosophy and the extent unexplored his empire.

Let
us imagine that philosophy, August and sovereign Empress of science, dwells in splendid Alcazar,
whose halls and courtrooms are gorgeous and its elegant domes and steep towers it seems that
reach the sky and bathe in pure light, radiant than the sun that Regular us light. Well, poop,
so we figured it Vastis underground or basements where they walk the wise experimental and
scrutinize everything.

There are stables, pens and tinados, not just junk storage, rooms able to servitude, stoves, sinks,
warehouses, storerooms and other offices by style. For some cracks and skylights may be perceived
and discerned something of the magnitude and beauty of the castle, but the wise are no experimental
way to penetrate it, if well as more walk, notice and find out that part down, fastest growing concept
the superb range and extent of the unexplored beautiful and unattainable that on them up. So
I understand what is philosophy about the science of observation and experiment proceeds.

Perhaps no one ever gets real and effective up to the top of the castle, but by virtue of faith,
imagination or some way of loving enthusiasm, perhaps we rise in spirit with the wings that
give us religion, metaphysics and poetry, and see or we forge the illusion that we see some
of those wonders. Anyway, the media very subtle that we use to achieve this, and ingenuity,
tenacity and convoluted resources to go and that is worth our minds in such a difficult undertaking,
has such charm attractive and so powerful that we fall in love delight
and triumph but instead of obtaining only disappointments.

In this regard, and for the reasons stated, philosophy books go out of fashion, and everywhere,
even in Spain, pleasant and interested now and forever. We wish therefore success to the library
of Mr. Rodriguez Serra. Van and published in her writings of Schopenhauer and Baltasar Gracian,
and are announced as in press, several of Nietzsche, Ibn Geribol, Emerson, Leopardi, Vives, Stiner
and others, so opposite in their ideas that the least we can acknowledge the editor is biased,
but rather appears endowed with a syncretism that inspires sympathy.

 

If the purpose had been clarified and scored more, sprucing up the author's ironic style sharpening
its tip, rather than the novel titled Lully Arjona, he could have the title Demolition of ideals.

In
effect, whether or not because things are not as good in this world
as desirable, because of the unpleasant nature of a social organism
or wrong and vicious, the fact is each of the ideals that Lully is
forming and placing way idol on a pedestal or stand, was demolished
soon, because the base or pedestal is grounded.

So just by Lully ideal lose some, but very sadly disappointed. From all this it could be inferred
the most ascetic Christian morals, that we should not put in this life, but in another better
target our aspirations and desires.

Lully, elegant and beautiful and so noble as poor, the daughter of a title thundered, aiming first to
marry a nice gentleman who is tender, love alive and reasonably, and enjoy of twenty or thirty
thousand dollars of income, to love you with luxury, comfort and
all the profiles and workmanship Eligible required.

Lully or blanket arrives in thirty years, and does not find such a boyfriend. The basis of this
ideal is crumbling. Lully has be content with half of the idealized. A lack of boyfriend or
husband, beautiful, love, handsome and discreet, happy and resigned to be rich. And Lully home.
Then tries for use to build a smaller, but still poetic ideal. In your imagination given to her
husband, and that no talent, straight view, extreme kindness, tenderness and sensitivity of affection.
With these qualities, and he being as good looking, elegant and agile sport, can not fail to satisfy
the pride of her and have her, if not in love, so grateful and devoted almost touch and be confused
with gratitude and love its performance.

Unfortunately it appears that Cabrera, who's the name of Lully's husband is a gentleman as
rude and vulgar sentiments, a few days of married, esteem or put in relationships daeef or sinful
with zuripantas, which in its path on the honeymoon.

No longer possible the conjugal devotion and affection with which he had dreamed Lully. New ideal
ground. Lully intended to replace the sublime poetry of motherhood,
in their joys, duties and sacrifices, but the thalamus is sterile
Cabrera.

There is a time when dreams quintessential Lully with a passion, pure,
chaste, without the slightest blemish to tarnish cleaning.

Lully fortunately found the right man for this purpose. Bespoke or could be better, but also
by a series of fortuitous events, long to present here, this arch-loving semi-mystical spiritual
and goes further: it seems that vanishes.

In short, the poor Lully, creating ideal bucket that chance or the
devil knocks then comes to fall in the most real and imaginable pitiful
meanness.

Middle surprised and a half violated, in a moment of weakness and blindness, almost without conscience
or spirit to resist, Lully surrenders and is delivered to a bold, bad man who did not deserve.

Even
after this fall Lully seeks comfort in an ideal, not again renewed. Expected to be a mother and intends
to devote to the child she bore all the vehemence affective of his
heart, his thoughts and life and being of his spirit.

So it is time Lully, and consoles himself with these ideas and plans, until it reaches the
expected day of delivery.

Lully is about to die, and stop a dead child.

The disappointment can not be more complete and more terrible. To top of misfortunes, he has
her sister died shortly before the humpback, discovering his love for the very violent man Lully
abused by surprise. And because this man had flirted with shit and up had intended, on the
grounds strange or perhaps by calculations of expediency, the poor Lully is not even the consolation
of her seductive figure, or as we like to call it, unless vile and heartless than I was.

This is the first fake story, really sick little consolation that Mr. Danvila has writing. Great
boldness is in the narrative, but are bordered or saved with art. And there is remarkable variety
and richness of the sets and episodes, and not a few jokes and discreteos in the dialogues, arguments
and letters that come into the fabric of the novel, his reading is not tired or distressed,
but delight, and also promises that its author has to keep writing, genre surpassing what has
already been written, and ensuring that their heroes and heroines high-life put on firmer ground
the foundations of their ideals so as not to sink into silt to the lower flip.

SISSY LEON

ORIGINAL NOVELS OF JOSEPH AND NOGALES NOGALES

Mr. Nogales, known as the general public by the prize story in the
open competition by The Liberal, has refused to confirm and confirmed,
in my opinion, the justice of earned that triumph, not just writing
stories, but large novels.

The headed the section that serves as I understand it has gone further still: Ladybug Lion gives
more to my liking than The three things we were promised Uncle John.

Life in a small rural Andalusia is well observed and neatly painted. Not the author of sin nor does
it follow neat fashion of certain French novels, where there is no object by mean and insignificant,
not weighed, measured and described in detail how more scrupulous in the inventory drawn up
by experts. Mr. Nogales is not, by that. Painted in broad strokes, and we thank them. The descriptions
of the novel is very far to tire, and are yet so alive, and seem as accurate and as true,
we see a Venusian, which is the name the village scene of his novel, walk down the streets
with the author the place and the fields that surround it, and entered the houses, yards and warehouses
of the farm houses of wealthy landowners.

The novel has a trace of romance, but not ideal and fantastic, but taken with keen observation
of reality itself and reproduced with art wise and sober.

The characters are real and have consistency, so that the main characters say they live, and
their actions and passions and stir interest.

Most of these characters, the chief Figs, his son, Tantrums, and Mayor-larán Larán is morally ugly
and mean, but the fans pessimistic prevails today in the works of genius, and we dare not
criticize the black of the box, although he would have preferred
less black.

All his figures, however, are not blackened by vices and sins. Some are sympathetic and morally
beautiful. Thus the physician D. Jacinto, the virtuous, energetic and easy Father Baquero,
Jayan graft rustic holy and venerable servant of God, rich in evangelical virtues, and the lovely
Mary Janes, that while in the background is very blurred, is an excellent young man.

The protagonist is soon as it is said, to praise. Ladybug Lion wants to be, and almost successful,
the prototype of the richest female of our time, no noble of high rank lady or servants of
the soil and fortresses and castles, but democratic peasant who she milked the cows, make cheese
and is used in other household chores and rustic duties. Ladybug Lion is laborious, active, clear,
and has the vigor and integrity suitable to rule his house and his property and to gain respect
and fear of enemies. And why has no sargentón Mariquita, tomboy or nun ensign. Mariquita is graceful
and beautiful, neat and tidy, charity to the poor, plain and affable in dealing, generous with
the little people, and with friends, loyal, loving and gentle. All the aforementioned characters
and not a few other second and third order in the novel speak very naturally and how they speak,
that is, without Mr. Nogales they do say the infinity things that in real life had to say
without a doubt, but no matter the purpose history, so the author
must do without them as if they never said.

The first rule of art, more importantly perhaps, the most difficult to observe and that rare
once observed, is to discard the irrelevant, and I think that Mr. Nogales hits Mariquita in
León to observe this rule.

Another rule is that, in my opinion, should always be followed, though Zola, books training
who has written about the art of composing novels, the repeal as useless, but as Zola follows
although often take for Repealed anyone would figure that is fun
and malice endorsed the repeal of that rule.

A novel is a series of cases experienced, observed experienced by those who play them later without
unity of action, but must have convenient link that makes all these cases, accidents or events,
attend the same order and contribute to the proper termination to the story.

Against this rule, which in my view should not be repealed, the author of Mariquita sins León. His
novel undoubtedly interest and delight, but absent from that rule, but interested and delight
most if not missing. And it is not necessary, but it is enough. In Ladybug Lion can say that
There are four actions rather than one: the feud between the mayor and tantrums, which is
stirred as beleaguered beast, and ends up killing his persecutors, the greed of Figs, which
excites Juanito without salt to steal the grain, and the disgusting and appalling struggle
between father and son discovered the theft causes and resulting in the death of the father, the
poetic and just started love between Mercedes and the doctor, sadly ending a separation thing, in
my view, dark and subtly reasoned, and finally, the painful disease sickly child, beloved son
of Mariquita Leon, whose death ends the novel. The above four actions, I do not see that influence
one another. All paths simultaneously and only agree on one point: to contribute to the disappointment
of the doctor D. Jacinto, disenchanted Village life goes on Venusta to live again in large
cities, where such After no less disappointments await. Peasant roughness has not given fruit
Venusta naive innocence, but the grossest corruption.

Desire to continue to give us medical D. Jacinto, begging Mr. Nogales
to accompany us and guide us to see if further of Venusian and largest
population and civilized things are a little better and we should
not ashamed of sin and regret so much misery.

ADVENTURES, INVENTIONS AND mystification

OF WILD PARADOX

No more bitter unlike me to fashion in literature, but how to prevent
it what should not be anything?

Good verses must always be esteemed and applauded. This can not be denied. It is most evident,
however, that the little Spanish that reads large audience tired of verses and shows disdain them
sick. The fans of the novel and prose story spreads and fans increasingly providing incentives
for many authors to cultivate the genre.

Little was prolific novelists throughout Spain in the eighteenth century and the first two-thirds
XIX. English and French novels translated into Castilian, almost sufficient for consumption
and serials published in daily newspapers, already inflicted on volumes.

It seems in the country where he had written the Amadis, La Celestina and Quijote, was lost
the ability to write novels. Today, by that, I flatter myself and believe that I am happy reborn
fitness, and waiting to be given by no less spicy fruit and tasty than come from France, England,
and even Sweden, Russia and Poland, and taste like with much delight the educated and that our
critics often get so through the roof.

To make this happen do not ask me that unfairly belittle foreign production
and imported, or that too much praise for what occurs here.

I ask only a little less of admiration and astonishment at what comes out and some more leniently
for the in Spain is written and published. It should also lay down the public's attention this
and thus arouse the curiosity and interest, even half that inspired the theater, tenth that
inspire even bullfights. What I propose is to contribute for this purpose to the extent of
my poor and almost weary.

It is, in my view, unique and enjoyable castizo roots that have the letters in Spain. Despite
of despondency where we have fallen, and despite the admiration and adoration semi-attached
want to own some of us feel contempt, not only by English novels and French, but also by the Swedes
and the Russians, the itch to imitate or not given, or if there is unexpected occurs imitate
the effect that, perhaps unintentionally, and even unsuspecting invincible driven throwback,
the old Spanish novel. Clear example this gives us implied by its title as head of this little article.
Don Pio Baroja, perhaps unwittingly, thinking of many foreign books undoubtedly have read,
it has been writing and has written the adventures of Silvestre Paradox, and renewed, as can
be renewed today, with different costumes, customs, habits and hobbies, our ancient novel picaresque.
Lazarillo de Tormes, Guzman de Alfarache, Marcos de Obregon, Estebanillo Gonzalez the hustler
D. Paul, donated talkative and other characters of the same stamp, are to be found in the realm
of fantasy and recognized as a very close relative of the hero disaster novel D. Pio Baroja. The
similarity of this hero to those above, highlight each step, while the differences come from different
ways of living there now. Wild Paradox page is no longer, nor squire, nor soldier going to
war and panache to Italy, Flanders and America, and becomes captive
in Algiers, not just as a penitent hermit in a desert, but struggle
through life as is customary now, and companies rush bold and sexually
adventurous, and presents from his new vantage point of human life
long series of paintings in which it does apply reality and truth,
but sometimes blackened by satire and grotesquely exaggerated by caricature.

Silvestre

Paradox is not a rogue former mode, but a bizarre semi-wise trying to invent or think you have
invented quite a few scientific devices. Models this has been able to find Mr. Baron in our
land, where little or no importance is invented long time, but where there is no shortage purposes
and attempted to invent flying machines direction, ships submarines, missiles smelly that whole
armies sufficient to drown mephitic with miasma, and squaring the circle, and continuous movement,
and countless other of workmanship.

I do not know me or throw me to scrutinize and investigate whether Mr. Baron has tried with his
novel prove any thesis or give us a moral lesson, social or political. But whether or not
his novel lesson or thesis, I'm just as free entertainment, I declare I had fun, and that is
enough for me to hold the author and recommended reading of his book, which is well written
with simplicity and grace, and without being heavy philosophies dissertations and other unwelcome.
Much appreciated is the latter in the day, when in the novel is to teach you everything you
need to know, incurring the heavy novelists unbearable. Because, as I said yesterday a friend of
mine, not a few novels teachers now is for him like chess: to play about scientists, and science,
about games.

For something enters the science on the novel by Don Pio Baroja, but enters as an element or ingredient
to entertain and outwit.

Although it is a bad comparison, is like seasoning or salt and pepper stew.

Someone censorship disorderly or almost rhyme or novel at hand. I believe very severe and all
but unfounded such censorship. The action, as in most all novels of its kind, is the protagonist's
entire life, or at least part of this life until he gets tired of writing who writes, and always
left open field and cut fabric to make up the second part, for while the latter said Cervantes
never any good, gloriously contradicted his Ingenious Hidalgo, accompanying
in contradiction with its new Lazarillo Moon, Matt German and others.

Pursued by creditors, full of disappointments and overwhelmed by poverty, Silvestre Paradox
Madrid escapes and goes to Valencia. Who knows what interesting or funny can happen next! Suffice
for now that we have fun and Mr Baron told us. And hopefully, finally, that by writing a second
part of Silvestre Paradox, and bringing out other heroes and taking new directions and issues,
Mr. Baron keep writing novels, and has aptitude for it, and try, without ceasing to be realistically
brighten, beautify and brighten the world with flashes describing ideals. Anyway, its Silvestre
Paradox, but so deep in the pond impure reality and almost drowning in it, we are very sympathetic
for his cheerful stoicism, for her ease and good humor that never
deserts him in the midst of his destitution incorrigible, cares and
troubles.

THE LAST PATRIOT

NOVEL BY JOSEPH AND NOGALES NOGALES

No doubt that everything that happens good and bad is because God wants, but the designs of
the Almighty are inscrutable, and risk making mistakes and even if we insist on swearing declared.
I infer here, that is risky to attribute to other punishment from
heaven the misfortunes that might fall on a community or an individual.

The beads droll often have a moral full of good sense. He played a man on Friday and lost its
flow, but not lost by playing on Good Friday, as the greedy also played on the same day and not on Saturday.

Many
times I have heard from serious subjects, and I've read in newspapers and books, which in
last war between France and Prussia, the French lost because they were then very corrupt and
cancan dancing too, but what was perhaps the Prussians some parents
of the wilderness, and not spent the same dance or other no less decomposed
and lewd?

His triumph was, therefore, other causes, not the greatest severity and purity of manners.

Yet another more rigid morality that people often rely to explain the large events, placing it
as one of the basic philosophy of history. People get a winner, and other people is defeated
in a war. Are we to say why the apparent degeneration the vanquished? Could be required as a
duty, could be regarded as an unavoidable condition for not go through degenerated before maturity
have heroes and martyrs in abundance? I I understand that. I understand the heroism and martyrdom
are highly praiseworthy for the same they are rare. The hero and martyr achieved immortal fame, but
when the doctrine, belief, the people or society for whom the sacrifice is to win out. Three hundred
of Thermopylae would be forgotten or madmen would pass, if after
slaughter had not sprung the unfading laurels of Marathon, Plataea
and Salamis.

It is also true that the heroic acts always worth much, if only to clean the defeat of all shameful
stain. Dying D. Rodrigo on the banks of the Guadalete and Hasting Harold, with his blood covered
up the shame of the rapid conquest of Spain and England Moors and Normans. And the last of the Paleologos,
fighting and dying gloriously in defense of Constantinople, was worthy
of the majesty cesarean; put an end to secular glory to Greeks and
Romans, and deserves no less acclaim that Leonidas and more pious
sympathy.

I do not want to clarify here, because the events are quite recent, if circumstances are similar
or are very different, and if there was or if it should be at the end unfortunately the Empire
Spain's colonial that had lasted four years, something beautiful and worthy of a great tragedy
characters that are tantamount to the Rodrigos, Harold and we said Paleologos. What I think you
might make is that the greatest sacrifice we have made blood money and would have had the
same result or more disastrous, because, on the loss of our colonies, the Yankees could have
ruined some of our cities the coast, and cause grave damage to our industry and resurgent trade
without throughout the former Spanish courage, reborn and even increased, we would have done much against
large armored ships, against right-handers against marine and sure
aim of colossal guns.

Abandoned throughout Europe with the sterile and useless commiseration of some powers and the superb
secular disdain and hatred of others, we'd always fallen in the struggle, and the more the fight had
lasted, deeper and more cruel it would have been our downfall. Must is resigned: no other choice.
What advantage can bring and recriminations? Concede there have been faults, whose punishment
has been our defeat, but the culprits have been and are so many that it is wiser not absolution,
but the amnesty, forgetting what has already happened, and forget the most horrible dream,
and make new life. Explain here how it should be this life effort is beyond my mental faculties,
and I think the few that have not taken the job of regenerating and reciting speeches or write
books therapeutic. The all you can say, without the presumption that claims to be endowed with
the power to regenerate or heal, is that in the day than at other ages, should be rich to be strong,
and should also win allies and friends, and not be alone in the world. The heroic courage,
can make miracles, but miracles should not rely on luck and the future of the country. And
that same heroic courage, whose fitness miracle granted, sometimes declines, and to die when
you are lacking in the community or the individual material resources, skill in arms and all means
of defense and offense are now more complicated and expensive than ever and require constant
study and long training to be well employees.

I moved to put the foregoing considerations here reading a novel
or as we like to call it, D. work Jose Nogales, whose title is the
last patriot. The dictator, well, if it is invoked to establish
something has to be the instrument, the representative of a large part of the nation, whose
terms must comply with the force of the same nation gets his hands to meet them. No doubt
that the dictator is then power comes from God, but not immediately, but through the Republic,
says Domingo de Soto, Divinitus scholar. Do we find ourselves if so, God inspires the election
of a dictator, and what and who should be? Undeceive Dona Emilia and persuade yourself that the least
bad is that things remain as they are, unaltered or removals. Mudándolo altering and all, with
several by way of dictators, changing every when constitutions and organic laws, releasing administrative
reforms, the collection requires huge crowd of volumes and speed and making pronouncements at
every step We traveled throughout the nineteenth century and is tired and deplored what little
less thrive and lucid as we come to XX. Why, then, a revolution, although Mr. Maura was quoted
by Dona Emilia, hold that the revolution is necessary, and not to make it from above, down there
to do it? Would not it be better than us to stay still, trying not to dictators nor revolutions,
nor with brand new laws and decrees, but by working hard and well in arts and crafts supplies, increase
the wealth of the nation, thus restoring its former vigor and the strong confidence in their
high places?

The immortal book of Miguel de Cervantes gives us about this implicitly and symbolically more
very sound advice that we should follow. Defeated D. Don Quixote by the Knight of the White
Luna, would not be a dictator or revolutionary, but projected devoted to grazing and peaceful
and industrious life. In point of speed, we should also imitate the gentleman Mancha, who was
content to break his helmet once, proud to recognize the sharpness of his sword and his arm strong,
but helmet and reassembled, it was kept very well stab him again, and gave good and strong but
it was not. 

Anyway, it is absurd to aim for as complete originality is not enough, for example, and remember nothing
of a Spanish novel to those already in the same genre have been written in other nations. Our aspiration
should be limited to that if something is imitated, imitation falls on an original base of his
own, and in habits, passions and characters representing as style and language that expresses it.
Matter that the characters, events, fields, cities and other places where the scene is set as
indicated in the action, displayed or copied taken immediately from nature, not the favorites,
come strange land to be the subject of our admiration and enthusiasm.

Complying with these conditions we have already enough novels, and every day brings new and
made by new authors.

In the midst of our political prostration, and despite the disagreement of opinions and interests
continually threaten us, disturbing the repose and serenity of the spirit, if not yet succeeded
in producing very serious and deplorable riots, good sign is that the activity fruitful intellectual
display reconcentrated in Spain and not in Madrid, but widespread
on Peninsula.

I do not like that political regionalism, we welcome and applaud in literature. I prefer many
light sources to one, by the splendor that has that glow in the center that spread everywhere.
For this to preserve the national character and do not deny it, the appearance of the works
of genius in various cities and regions is evidence that life was
not included in the center, but everywhere give account of himself,
showing ubiquitous and varied without breaking the unity of the whole.

In the last century our mental fertility was evident in the parliamentary eloquence of that not
a little abused, and in the theater and lyric poetry, satire and narrative.

On this day I think we're a little tired and disillusioned with public speaking, and I think
that, if poetry must always be written, the abundant crop of them has been we have tired, if not
tired, and I do not believe that the Floral Games, which in many
places are often held, worth to renew a love of poetry, so vehemently,
for example, in the Age of Romanticism, nor worth nor souls to awaken
a new poetic inspiration, powerful and brilliant.

The propensity of those who write in the day is to the novel.

And far from being sterile is propensity, each time producing estimable works, leaving hope
for the future other seasoned and less imperfect.

I would like to here news of quite a few novels that I recently received and read, but comparisons
are odious, the trial can be fallible, blinded by the degree of friendship that the authors join
us, and this made me flinch and almost will not let me here the question later novels, and that
the judge and compare.

Suffice to say that not a few are read with pleasure, which are simple and elegantly written,
and perhaps more moral and more entertaining those which the authors either have not read many
novels French and English or they forget them when make your own.

Of novelists and popular and accredited veterans, so to speak, I will not word to say here.
Neither Perez Galdos, and Pereda, and Picon, or the same P. Coloma, who published Recently an interesting
new book, let alone Mrs Ms Emilia Pardo Bazán, need anyone call public attention on his writing.
It might be useful criticism impartial approving the beauties they contain, and noting the
faults as every human should have, so that novice writers avoid them and do not engage in them.
But as hard work is not for me. On the day more than ever I feel helpless for both, and I
acknowledge also that I lack sufficient authority. Or abatement encouragement,
very natural in old age, disappointment or reasonable and fair, I
see such errors in my own work, which I dare not censor those whom
the vast majority of my gives fellow applause and laurels. No sane person
now suggests that the foreign policy of the country should be dealt with by the laissez-faire
policy. Meat who drew
this, della ate those who were there with the king, and sun-dried della [52] to be placed in storage
for people proveimiento war, and all these animals it is understood that it was Montesinos, and
not any of the domestic. We took from them many and biscachas deer, foxes and bears and lions
some small.

CAP.

One of the things that most envy these gentlemen, to understand how well they knew conquer land
and putting it so great, his prudence, reason such as the Spanish found them when they discovered
this new kingdom was, and is so much questo Sometimes I recall, being unruly in a province
outside of these realms, then listen to the Spanish themselves, "I sure that if the Incas around
here, what else was this, "ie, the Incas did not conquer it as the other, because they knew serving
and tax. On the way, as much as it known is the advantage that we do, because with his order the
people lived with and grew in multiplication, and they made sterile
fertile provinces and abundant, in such manner and by such order as
will be gallant.

Always tried to do things right and not wrong at the start of business; after some Incas made
great punishment in many parts, but first, all state that was great benevolence and amicicia that
tried to attract his service these people. They left Cuzco with his people and war machine and
walked with great concert up to about where they were to go and wanted to win, which was reported
very pretty power they had enemies and aid that could have and how much they could come favors,
and by what means, and this understanding by them, sought by the tracks to them possible clogging were
not aided, sometimes with great gifts who did, now with resistance which placed; understanding,
without this, to send to their strengths, which were on hills or slopes, some fencing made them
high and long, with its door each, because loss one, could go over
to the other, and the other to the top. Giving here of course the issue of Burgos, 1499, of which only retained a
copy, was a forgery, made in Venice from 1632 to 1635, the first appearance of La Celestina,
was in the year 1500, edition of Salamanca. The issue, therefore, Vigo made by Mr. Krapf in
1900, is to solemnize the fourth centenary of the book and also of the author, whose life and deeds
is the most important book is known.

Illustrated edition of Mr. Krapf, and give greater prominence and attractive variants, the catalog
editions of La Celestina has been made in Spanish, French, English, Dutch German, Latin and
Italian, and especially a wonderful introduction, notes and appendices
D. Marcelino Menéndez y Pelayo.