"The Catholic sovereigns constituted by God and by their subjects, are obliged to introduce
such circumstances as to carry into execution their legitimate claims. And those who have been
elected by a band without discipline, by bankrupts and thieves, dare to declare publicly, that
the hour has come for these thieves and bankrupts to attack the civilized world! are we not
as much devoted to the truth, as they are to the lie? We should not delay to promote our system
of salvation, while we are discussing their system of perdition. And whereas they are elevating
the crime to their religion with more energy than we do our holy religion, while we appear
to surrender it, we will henceforth extol the cross and draw the sword, and unite the Latin
race to the alliance, without which there is no salvation for civilization.

"The president's message is in open opposition to the faith, the ideas, the principles and
the interests, the acknowledged defender of which your Majesty is. That message strikes Europe
on both cheeks; and I affirm that those who like to make it laughable, become pale when they
reflect upon it in their closets.

"Mr. Buchanan and the nation whom he represents, keep these things not any longer in secret.
From henceforth they demand Cuba, and the language in the message shows, that they will not
desist from any means to obtain their object. This object is one portion of Mexico and then
an other, the whole Central America and West Indies," &c.

If our profession which is expressed on the title page of this book, is true, we have received
the commission to move nations and their rulers to establish the universal republic of truth
and justice, harmony and peace. From Elgin we went to Dragon to house which is called Spiny, or
Who: the Gentleman he is, and of name of who Douglas, where do we
were now be well has welcomed, as they befitted of honour become of
himself and his fathers. Our
commission, that is, the commission of messengers whom I represent, is confirmed by so many
signs according to prophecies, that while I was writing the last of the five German volumes
which have been published from A.D. 1838 till 1842, I have oftentimes repeated, that the key
has been given in those volumes to unlock and explain so many prophecies and signs testifying
our mission, that five hundred volumes could be filled, if there had not been superabundance
of them already published in the five above mentioned volumes, from which it is evident, that
neither monarchs amongst themselves in Europe, nor political and ecclesiastical parties and
sects in this country, can establish peace, but will continue to quarrel and consume every
year an enormous amount of property for war preparations, and corrupt and ruin nations, and
destroy many men and women during those preparations, till at length they are again and again
so brutalized and enraged, that they kill each other, till all parties are so exhausted, that
they are compelled to make peace, which is nothing else but an armistice; because when the
true peace or Christ's reign, which will be the universal Republic of Truth and Justice, shall
be established on the whole globe, soldiers and all preparations for war, will disappear, and
those who are now learning how to destroy each other, will learn how to prolong their lives
and improve their intellectual and moral faculties for their own temporal and eternal welfare,
as well as for the welfare of others. Wo! wo! wo! to the Roman catholics as well as others
in these United States and in all other parts of America and in Europe and elsewhere, if the
infernal fire of revolution and war, which is glowing, breaks out with all force in the United
States of America. It would extend on the globe and consume millions of men, and amongst them
also Monarchs. But we write to prevent their destruction, and to prepare them to become true
republicans and truly happy, and to contribute their share for the happiness of all men.

After the publication of the above mentioned five volumes I made urgent applications to political
and ecclesiastical rulers and their counsellors in Europe by sending to some of them my books
and letters, and to others letters only, showing how to obtain my books, and exhorting them
to study them and act accordingly to prevent revolutions and wars and to commence the new Era.
After that, whenever a peculiar crisis was approaching, we have issued some publication, warning
the American Nation as well as other nations and their governments, and showing, that there
was high time to study the contents of our volumes. I am not alone, but there are invisible
messengers giving testimony by my instrumentality, as superabundance of proof is given also
in this volume. In this connection of matters I mention the following instance:

At the end of the year 1853 my pamphlet "Antichristian Conspiracy against true Republicanism"
issued from the press; and in the first part of the year 1854 copies of that pamphlet as well
as written disclosures containing most solemn warnings to the American as well as to all other
nations, were sent to President Pierce and to a number of congressmen in both houses. In said
pamphlet and in the annexed written disclosures, the Government was most solemnly exhorted
to appoint a convention for examining our system or the magnetic chain of events through the
course of the past centuries in connection with the events of this generation, which have not
been understood so as they are made manifest in our chain for binding the Dragon, the spirit
of delusion and destruction, REVEL. xx. 2. who has given his power, and his seat, and great
authority REVEL. xiii: 2, not only to the representative of the beast or the Pope of Rome,
but also to the ten horns of the beast, or kings, that is monarchs, who hate the whore, that
is the Apostatized Church, the people who have apostatized from truth and justice, and whom
monarchs make desolate and naked, and eat their flesh and burn them with fire, REVEL. xvii: 16.

"The Catholic Sovereigns" are according to the quoted passage of Mr. Belly, "constituted by
God and by their subjects." The number of the Democrat, which occasioned this treatise, was
providentially handed to me. But here is no room to explain that which will be explained in
our "monthly theological course," which is appointed in this book, and in which our system
or the chain to bind the dragon, will be exhibited, and in which will be made manifest, how
far "the Catholic sovereigns" or monarchs are constituted by their subjects, and how their
subjects would constitute them, if they were free and enlightened, as they should be according
to the will of God who has endowed them with intellectual and moral faculties, to be duly developed. Them
was informed Element, and wherefore i came this progress: wherefore he supped up to airlock, and
i undertook with nucleotide, and bounteously so confirmed of quarts
destroy it was of sugar, and four preparations for foam. If monarchs would fulfil their highest duty, their subjects would become true
republicans, and then monarchs would cease to be, what they now are by the appointment of the
dragon, the spirit of delusion and destruction, by whose inspiration they are executioners
of the degraded people whose education has been neglected, and who would have become true republicans,
if monarchs had become fathers and teachers of the ignorant. XVII.: 17.

In those circumstances, after the destruction, of the first Napoleon's power, it was best,
when the rulers or fathers of nations have neglected to fulfil their highest duty, that they
have submitted their monarchies under the protection of the Pope, the representative of the
Beast with ten horns and seven heads, till the prophecy has been fulfilled. From neglecting
that rule much greater evils, most dreadful revolutions and wars originated. The history of
the so called christian church, when some portions rebelled against the Pope through the course
of centuries until this time, is the most horrible theatre under the dominion of the dragon.
Therefore, after the destruction of the first Napoleon we read in REVEL. xvii: 13, that the
ten horns or monarchs agreed unanimously (in the Congress of Vienna, A.D. 1815,) to give their
power and strength unto the beast, that is, to make the Pope, the representative of the beast,
a partaker of their own power and strength. This was the means for the support of their own
thrones, till the prophecy has been fulfilled by what has been executed through our mediumships
in the Roman Catholic Church, and has been explained in the first three of my above mentioned
five German volumes. Those three volumes appeared between A.D. 1838 and 1840, and have been
sent to three Roman Catholic Monarchs, to wit, the Emperor of Austria, the King of Bavaria
and the King of France, with my hand writings, showing to the first two their highest duty
to enjoin their Theologians to examine those volumes and to send to me the result of their
examinations, to be published with my remarks, that truth might be made manifest, and to the
king of France, that he should translate those volumes into French and spread them as much
as possible in his monarchy. All three have been most solemnly exhorted to do what was required
in those volumes to prevent the repetition of revolutions, wars, and other plagues, which cannot
be removed but must be repeated, till the heavenly message of Peace made manifest by our instrumentality,
is received by governments and nations. When our applications to and exhortations of political
and ecclesiastical influential men in America and in Europe were not regarded, and in these
days of Noah the earth was corrupt and filled with violence, and all flesh had corrupted his
way, I Mos. vi: 11 and 12, the flood of revolution broke out in Europe in the year 1848, on
the exact day in correspondence with prophecies given by our instrumentality and published
in my volumes, and emperors and kings, and their machines of destruction, the bishops of America
and in Europe, and other political and ecclesiastical officers, who with all our exhortations
remained obstinate sinners against the Holy Ghost, who has disclosed by our instrumentality
that which is required for the introduction of the promised peaceable reign of Christ, which
according to our disclosures by a long chain of signs according to prophecies, will be the
universal republic of truth and justice, harmony and peace on the whole globe, are responsible
for all destruction of human life and property, which were consumed in that revolution and
afterwards until this hour, and would have been saved, if the means shown in our message, had
been used.

Ferdinand, Emperor of Austria, was the first compelled to give a constitution. I read it on
the 18th, April, 1848, and was inspired to write on the 19th, April, or, on his birth-day a
letter to him and an appeal to the inhabitants of the Austrian Empire, assuring them, that
the calamities came, because the contents of our publications had not been regarded, although
our mission had been superabundantly proven by signs according to prophecies. I confessed also,
that I was ready to go instantly to Vienna, and to show practically, how to make the right
use of that constitution for the commencement of the new era of harmony and peace, if the emperor
would publish directly my appeal to the inhabitants of his empire, and write to me, and give
the security to support the constitution, which was such as the inhabitants of the empire had
a right to demand, as well as the emperor had a right to watch against the abuse and to apply
the proper means for the right use of the constitution. Thus did I have been neither, and beg, and ask, by course, direct
messengers and indirectly: Of tittle I performed our undertaking,
According to my bill most circumspectly [Decorative peace] THE EPILOGUE
TO disappear Now been MY ADVENTURERS AND OTHERS.

