Alick had not forgotten her original views as to travelling, and as they were eventually to
go to Scotland, had proposed beginning with Dutch reformatories and Swiss cretins; but she
was so plainly unfit for extra fatigue and bustle, that the first few weeks were to be spent
in Wales, where the enjoyment of fine scenery might, it was hoped, be beneficial to the jaded
spirits, and they had been going through a course of passes and glens as thoroughly as Rachel's
powers would permit, for any over-fatigue renewed feverishness and its delusive miseries, and
the slightest alarm told upon the shattered nerves.

She did not easily give way at the moment, but the shock always took revenge in subsequent
suffering, which all Alick's care could not prevent, though the exceeding charm of his tenderness
rendered even the indisposition almost precious to her.

"What a lovely sunset!" he said, coming to lean over the back of her chair. "Have you been
watching it?"

"I don't know."

"Are you very much tired?"

"No, it is very quiet here."

"Very; but I must take you in before that curling mist mounts into your throat."

"This is a very nice place, Alick, the only really quiet one we have found."

"I am afraid that it will be so no longer. The landlord tells me he has letters from three
parties to order rooms."

"Oh, then, pray let us go on," said Rachel, looking alarmed.

"To-morrow afternoon then, for I find there's another waterfall."

"Very well," said Rachel, resignedly.

"Or shall we cut the waterfall, and get on to Llan--something?"

"If you don't think we ought to see it."

"Ought?" he said, smiling. "What is the ought in the case? Why are we going through all this?
Is it a duty to society or to ourselves?"

"A little of both, I suppose," said Rachel.

"And, Rachel, from the bottom of your heart, is it not a trying duty?"

"I want to like what you are showing me," said Rachel.

"And you are more worried than delighted, eh?"

"I--I don't know! I see it is grand and beautiful! I did love my own moors, and the Spinsters'
Needles, but--Don't think me very ungrateful, but I can't enter into all this! All I really
do care for is your kindness, and helping me about," and she was really crying like a child
unable to learn a lesson.

"Well," he said, with his own languor of acquiescence, "we are perfectly agreed. Waterfalls
are an uncommon bore, if one is not in a concatenation accordingly."

Rachel was beguiled into a smile.

"Come," he said, "let us be strong minded! If life should ever become painful to us because
of our neglect of the waterfalls, we will set out and fulfil our tale of them. Meantime, let
me take you where you shall be really quiet, home to Bishopsworthy."

"But your uncle does not expect you so soon." 

Thus the line for Brute (according to the report of most writers) tooke an end: of foresaid the
[sidenote: Robert Record.] death of the two after brethren, no rightfull
inheritor was left in to succéed them aliue the kingdome. She knew that Lord and Lady Keith had
taken a house at Littleworthy, while Gowanbrae was under repair, and she dreaded the return
to the bewildering world, before even the first month was over; but Alick made the proposal
so eagerly that she could not help assenting with all the cordiality she could muster, thinking
that it must be a wretched, disappointing wedding tour for him, and she would at least not
prevent his being happy with his uncle; as happy as he could be with a person tied to him,
of whom all his kindred must disapprove, and especially that paragon of an uncle, whom she
heard of like an intensification of all that class of clergy who had of late been most alien
to her.

Alick did not press for her real wishes, but wrote his letter, and followed it as fast as she
could bear to travel. So when the train, a succession of ovens for living bodies disguised
in dust, drew up at the Littleworthy Station, there was a ready response to the smart footman's
inquiry, "Captain and Mrs. Keith?" This personage by no means accorded with Rachel's preconceived
notions of the Rectory establishment, but she next heard the peculiar clatter by which a grand
equipage announces its importance, and saw the coronetted blinkers tossing on the other side
of the railing. A kind little note of welcome was put into Rachel's hand as she was seated
in the luxurious open carriage, and Alick had never felt better pleased with his sister than
when he found his wife thus spared the closeness of the cramping fly, or the dusty old rectory
phaeton. Hospitality is never more welcome than at the station, and Bessie's letter was complacently
accepted. Rachel would, she knew, be too much tired to see her on that day, and on the next
she much regretted having an engagement in London, but on the Sunday they would not fail to
meet, and she begged that Rachel would send word by the servant what time Meg should be sent
to the Rectory for her to ride; it would be a kindness to exercise her, for it was long since
she had been used.

Rachel could not help colouring with pleasure at the notion of riding her own Meg again, and
Alick freely owned that it was well thought of. He already had a horse at his uncle's, and
was delighted to see Rachel at last looking forward to something. But as she lay back in the
carriage, revelling in the fresh wind, she became dismayed at the succession of cottages of
gentility, with lawns and hedges of various pretensions.

"There must be a terrible number of people here!"

"This is only Littleworthy."

"Not very little."

"No; I told you it was villafied and cockneyfied. There," as the horses tried to stop at a
lodge leading to a prettily built house, "that's Timber End, the crack place here, where Bessie
has always said it was her ambition to live."

"How far is it from the Parsonage?"

"Four miles."

Which was a comfort to Rachel, not that she wished to be distant from Bessie, but the population
appalled her imagination.

"Bishopsworthy is happily defended by a Dukery," explained Alick, as coming to the end of the
villas they passed woods and fields, a bit of heathy common, and a scattering of cottages.
Labourers going home from work looked up, and as their eyes met Alick's there was a mutual
smile and touch of the hat. He evidently felt himself coming home. The trees of a park were
beginning to rise in front, when the carriage turned suddenly down a sharp steep hill; the
right side of the road bounded by a park paling; the left, by cottages, reached by picturesque
flights of brick stairs, then came a garden wall, and a halt. Alick called out, "Thanks," and
"we will get out here," adding, "They will take in the goods the back way. I don't like careering
into the churchyard."

Rachel, alighting, saw that the lane proceeded downwards to a river crossed by a wooden bridge,
with an expanse of meadows beyond. To her left was a stable-yard, and below it a white gate
and white railings enclosing a graveyard, with a very beautiful church standing behind a mushroom
yew-tree. The upper boundary of the churchyard was the clipped yew hedge of the rectory garden,
whose front entrance was through the churchyard. There was a lovely cool tranquillity of aspect
as the shadows lay sleeping on the grass; and Rachel could have stood and gazed, but Alick
opened the gate, and there was a movement at the seat that enclosed the gnarled trunk of the
yew tree. A couple of village lads touched their caps and departed the opposite way, a white
setter dog bounded forward, and, closely attended by a still snowier cat, a gentleman came
to meet them, so fearlessly treading the pathway between the graves, and so youthful in figure,
that it was only the "Well, uncle, here she is," and, "Alick, my dear boy," that convinced
her that this was indeed Mr. Clare. The next moment he had taken her hand, kissed her brow,
and spoken a few words of fatherly blessing, then, while Alick exchanged greetings with the
cat and dog, he led her to the arched yew-tree entrance to his garden, up two stone steps,
along a flagged path across the narrow grass-plat in front of the old two-storied house, with
a tiled verandah like an eyebrow to the lower front windows.

Instead of entering by the door in the centre, he turned the corner of the house, where the
eastern gable disclosed a window opening on a sloping lawn full of bright flower-beds. The
room within was lined with books and stored with signs of parish work, but with a refined orderliness
reigning over the various little ornaments, and almost betokening feminine habitation; and
Alick exclaimed with admiration of a large bowl of fresh roses, beautifully arranged.

"Traces of Bessie," said Mr. Clare; "she brought them this morning, and spent nearly an hour
in arranging them and entertaining me with her bright talk. I have hardly been able to keep
out of the room since, they make it so delicious."

"Do you often see her?" asked Alick.

"Yes, dear child, she is most good-natured and attentive, and I take it most kindly of her,
so courted as she is."

"How do you get on with his lordship?"

"I don't come much in his way, he has been a good deal laid up with sciatica, but he seems
very fond of her; and it was all her doing that they have been all this time at Littleworthy,
instead of being in town for the season. She thought it better for him."

"And where is Mr. Lifford?" asked Alick.

"Gone to M---- till Saturday."

"Unable to face the bride."

"I fear Ranger is not equally shy," said Mr. Clare, understanding a certain rustle and snort
to import that the dog was pressing his chin hard upon Rachel's knee, while she declared her
content with the handsome creature's black depth of eye; and the cat executed a promenade of
tenderness upon Alick.

"How are the peacocks, Alick?" added Mr. Clare; "they, at least, are inoffensive pets. I dreaded
the shears without your superintendence, but Joe insisted that they were getting lop-sided."

Alick put his head out at the window. "All right, sir; Joe has been a little hard on the crest
of the left-hand one, but it is recovering."

Whereupon, Rachel discovered that the peacocks were creatures of yew-tree, perched at either
end of the garden fence. Mr. Clare had found them there, and preserved them with solicitous
fidelity.

Nothing could be less like than he was to the grave, thin, stooping ascetic in a long coat,
that she had expected. He was a tall, well-made man, of the same youthful cast of figure as
his nephew, and a far lighter and more springy step, with features and colouring recalling
those of his niece, as did the bright sunny playful sweetness of his manner; his dark handsome
eyes only betraying their want of sight by a certain glassy immobility that contrasted with
the play of the expressive mouth. It was hard to guess why Bessie should have shunned such
an uncle. Alick took Rachel to the bedroom above the library, and, like it, with two windows--one
overlooking churchyard, river, and hay-fields, the other commanding, over the peacock hedge,
a view of the playground, where Mr. Clare was seen surrounded by boys, appealing to him on
some disputed matter of cricket. There was a wonderful sense of serenity, freshness, and fragrance,
inexpressibly grateful to Rachel's wearied feelings, and far more comfortable than the fine
scenery through which she had been carried, because no effort to look and admire was incumbent
on her--nay, not even an effort to talk all the evening. Mr. Clare seemed to have perfectly
imbibed the idea that rest was what she wanted, and did not try to make small talk with her,
though she sat listening with pleased interest to the conversation between him and his nephew--so
home like, so full of perfect understanding of one another.

"Is there anything to be read aloud?" presently asked Alick.

"You have not by chance got 'Framley Parsonage?'"

"I wish I had. I did pick up 'Silas Marner,' at a station, thinking you might like it," and
he glanced at Rachel, who had, he suspected, thought his purchase an act of weakness. "Have
you met with it?"

"I have met with nothing of the sort since you were here last;" then turning to Rachel, "Alick
indulges me with novels, for my good curate had rather read the catalogue of a sale any day
than meddle with one, and I can't set on my pupil teacher in a book where I don't know what
is coming."

"We will get 'Framley,'" said Alick.

"Bessie has it. She read me a very clever scene about a weak young parson bent on pleasing
himself; and offered to lend me the book, but I thought it would not edify Will Walker. But,
no doubt, you have read it long ago."

"No," said Rachel; and something withheld her from disclaiming such empty employments. Indeed,
she was presently much interested in the admirable portraiture of "Silas Marner," and still
more by the keen, vivid enjoyment, critical, droll, and moralizing, displayed by a man who
heard works of fiction so rarely that they were always fresh to him, and who looked on them
as studies of life. His hands were busy all the time carving a boss for the roof of one of
the side aisles of his church--the last step in its gradual restoration.

That night there was no excitement of nerve, no morbid fancy to trouble Rachel's slumbers;
she only awoke as the eight o'clock bell sounded through the open window, and for the first
time for months rose less weary than she had gone to rest. Week-day though it were, the description
"sweet day, so calm, so cool, so bright," constantly recurred to her mind as she watched the
quiet course of occupation. Alick, after escorting his uncle to a cottage, found her searching
among the stores in the music stand.

"You unmusical female," he said, "what is that for?"

"Your uncle spoke of music last night, and I thought he would like it."

"I thought you had no such propensity."

"I learnt like other people, but it was the only thing I could not do as well as Grace, and
I thought it wasted time, and was a young ladyism; but if can recover music enough to please
him, I should be glad."

"Thank you," said Alick, earnestly. "He is very much pleased with your voice in speaking. Indeed,
I believe I first heard it with his ears."

"This is a thorough lady's collection of music," said Rachel, looking through it to hide her
blush of pleasure. "Altogether the house has not a bachelor look."

"Did you not know that he had been married? It was when he first had the living twelve years
ago. She was a very lovely young thing, half Irish, and this was the happiest place in the
world for two years, till her little brother was sent home here from school without proper
warning of a fever that had begun there. We all had it, but she and her baby were the only
ones that did not recover! There they lie, under the yew-tree, where my uncle likes to teach
the children. He was terribly struck down for years, though he went manfully to his work, and
it has been remarkable how his spirits and sociability have returned since he lost his sight;
indeed, he is more consistently bright than ever he was."

"I never saw any one like him," said Rachel. "I have fallen in with clergy that some call holy,
and with some that others call pious, but he is not a bit like either. He is not even grave,
yet there is a calming, refreshing sense of reverence towards him that would be awe, only it
is so happy."

Alick's response was to bend over her, and kiss her brow. She had never seen him so much gratified.

"What a comfort your long stay with him must have been," she said presently, "in the beginning
of his blindness!"

"I hope so. It was an ineffable comfort to me to come here out of Littleworthy croquet, and
I think cheering me did him good. Rachel, you may do and say what you please," he added, earnestly,
"since you have taken to him."

"I could not help it," said Rachel, though a slight embarrassment came over her at the recollection
of Bessie, and at the thought of the narrow views on which she expected to differ. Then, as
Alick continued to search among the music, she asked, "Will he like the piano to be used?"

"Of all things. Bessie's singing is his delight. Look, could we get this up?"

"You don't sing, Alick! I mean, do you?"

"We need not betray our talents to worldlings base."

Rachel found her accompaniment the least satisfactory part of the affair, and resolved on an
hour's practice every day in Mr. Clare's absence, a wholesome purpose even as regarded her
health and spirits. She had just sat down to write letters, feeling for the first time as if
they would not be a toil, when Mr. Clare looked in to ask Alick to refer to a verse in the
Psalms, quoting it in Greek as well as English, and after the research had been carried to
the Hebrew, he told Rachel that he was going to write his sermon, and repaired to the peacock
path, where he paced along with Ranger and the cat, in faithful, unobtrusive attendance. 

Reminders of the sea and of the life that is lived in ships were conspicuous
characteristic everywhere, in the pastoral scenes that began of soon
as the town ended.

Women transport sails and nets toiled as the green aisles through
the roads and lanes.

She felt a little abashed by the tone, but a message called him away, and before his return
Mr. Clare came back to ask for a reference to St. Augustine. On her offer of her services,
she was thanked, and directed with great precision to the right volume of the Library of the
Fathers, but spying a real St. Augustine, she could not be satisfied without a flight at the
original. It was not, however, easy to find the place; she was forced to account for her delay
by confessing her attempt, and then to profit by Mr. Clare's directions, and, after all, her
false quantities, though most tenderly and apologetically corrected, must have been dreadful
to the scholarly ear, for she was obliged to get Alick to read the passage over to him before
he arrived at the sense, and Rachel felt her flight of clever womanhood had fallen short. It
was quite new to her to be living with people who knew more of, and went deeper into, everything
than she did, and her husband's powers especially amazed her.

