Nothing remained to be done, and at 6.20 the Essex surrendered and was taken possession of.
The Phoebe had lost 4 men killed, including her first lieutenant, William Ingram, and 7 wounded;
the Cherub, 1 killed, and 3, including Captain Tucker, wounded. Total, 5 killed and 10 wounded.
[Footnote: James says that most of the loss was occasioned by the first three broadsides of
the Essex; this is not surprising, as in all she hardly fired half a dozen, and the last were
discharged when half of the guns had been disabled, and there were scarcely men enough to man
the remainder. Most of the time her resistance was limited to firing such of her six long guns
as would bear.] The difference in loss was natural, as, owing to their having long guns and
the choice of position, the British had been able to fire ten shot to the Americans' one.

The conduct of the two English captains in attacking Porter as soon as he was disabled, in
neutral waters, while they had been very careful to abstain from breaking the neutrality while
he was in good condition, does not look well; at the best it shows that Hilyar had only been
withheld hitherto from the attack by timidity, and it looks all the worse when it is remembered
that Hilyar owed his ship's previous escape entirely to Porter's forbearance on a former occasion
when the British frigate was entirely at his mercy, and that the British captain had afterward
expressly said that he would not break the neutrality. Still, the British in this war did not
act very differently from the way we ourselves did on one or two occasions in the Civil War,--witness
the capture of the Florida. And after the battle was once begun the sneers which most of our
historians, as well as the participators in the fight, have showered upon the British captains
for not foregoing the advantages which their entire masts and better artillery gave them by
coming to close quarters, are decidedly foolish. Hilyar's conduct during the battle, as well
as his treatment of the prisoners afterward, was perfect, and as a minor matter it may be mentioned
that his official letter is singularly just and fair-minded. Says Lord Howard Douglass: [Footnote:
"Naval Gunnery," p. 149.] "The action displayed all that can reflect honor on the science and
admirable conduct of Captain Hilyar and his crew, which, without the assistance of the Cherub,
would have insured the same termination. Captain Porter's sneers at the respectful distance
the Phoebe kept are in fact acknowledgments of the ability with which Captain Hilyar availed
himself of the superiority of his arms; it was a brilliant affair." While endorsing this criticism,
it may be worth while to compare it with some of the author's comments upon the other actions,
as that between Decatur and the Macedonian. To make the odds here as great against Garden as
they were against Porter, it would be necessary to suppose that the Macedonian had lost her
main-top-mast, had but six long 18's to oppose to her antagonist's 24's, and that the latter
was assisted by the corvette Adams; so that as a matter of fact Porter fought at fully double
or treble the disadvantage Garden did, and, instead of surrendering when he had lost a third
of his crew, fought till three fifths of his men were dead or wounded, and, moreover, inflicted
greater loss and damage on his antagonists than Garden did. If, then, as Lord Douglass says,
the defence of the Macedonian brilliantly upheld the character of the British navy for courage,
how much more did that of the Essex show for the American navy; and if Hilyar's conduct was
"brilliant," that of Decatur was more so.

This was an action in which it is difficult to tell exactly how to award praise. Captain Hilyar
deserves it, for the coolness and skill with which he made his approaches and took his positions
so as to destroy his adversary with least loss to himself, and also for the precision of his
fire. The Cherub's behavior was more remarkable for extreme caution than for any thing else.
As regards the mere fight, Porter certainly did every thing a man could do to contend successfully
with the overwhelming force opposed to him, and the few guns that were available were served
with the utmost precision. As an exhibition of dogged courage it has never been surpassed since
the time when the Dutch captain, Klaesoon, after fighting two long days, blew up his disabled
ship, devoting himself and all his crew to death, rather than surrender to the hereditary foes
of his race, and was bitterly avenged afterward by the grim "sea-beggars" of Holland; the days
when Drake singed the beard of the Catholic king, and the small English craft were the dread
and scourge of the great floating castles of Spain. Any man reading Farragut's account is forcibly
reminded of some of the deeds of "derring do" in that, the heroic age of the Teutonic navies.
Captain Hilyar in his letter says: "The defence of the Essex, taking into consideration our
superiority of force and the very discouraging circumstances of her having lost her main-top-mast
and being twice on fire, did honor to her brave defenders, and most fully evinced the courage
of Captain Porter and those under his command. [Footnote: James (p. 419) says: "The Essex,
as far as is borne out by proof (the only safe way where an American is concerned), had 24
men killed and 45 wounded. But Capt. Porter, thinking by exaggerating his loss to prop up his
fame, talks of 58 killed and mortally wounded, 39 severely, 27 slightly," etc., etc. This would
be no more worthy of notice than any other of his falsifications, were it not followed by various
British writers. Hilyar states that he has 161 prisoners, has found 23 dead, that 3 wounded
were taken off, between 20 and 30 reached the shore, and that the "remainder are either killed
or wounded." It is by wilfully preserving silence about this last sentence that James makes
out his case. It will be observed that Hilyar enumerates 161 + 23 + 3 + 25 (say) or 212, and
says the remainder were either killed or wounded; Porter having 255 men at first, this remainder
was 43. Hilyar stating that of his 161 prisoners, 42 were wounded, his account thus gives the
Americans 111 killed and wounded. James' silence about Hilyat's last sentence enables him to
make the loss but 69, and his wilful omission is quite on a par with the other meannesses and
falsehoods which utterly destroy the reliability of his work. By Hilyar's own letter it is
thus seen that Porter's loss in killed and wounded was certainly 111, perhaps 116, or if Porter
had, as James says, 265 men, 126. There still remain some discrepancies between the official
accounts, which can be compared in tabular form:

                         Hilyar.  Porter.
Prisoners unwounded.        119      75  prisoners unwounded.
    "       wounded.         42      27      "     slightly wounded,
Taken away wounded.           3      39      "     severely   "
Those who reached shore.     25      58  killed.
Remainder killed or wounded. 43      31  missing.
Killed.                      23      25  reached shore.
                         ------   -----
                            255     255

The explanation probably is that Hilyar's "42 wounded" do not include Porter's "27 slightly
wounded," and that his "161 prisoners" include Porter's "25 who reached shore," and his "25
who reached shore" comes under Porter's "31 missing." This would make the accounts nearly tally.
At any rate in Porter's book are to be found the names of all his killed, wounded, and missing;
and their relatives received pensions from the American government, which, if the returns were
false, would certainly have been a most elaborate piece of deception. It is far more likely
that Hilyar was mistaken; or he may have counted in the Essex Junior's crew, which would entirely
account for the discrepancies. In any event it must be remembered that he makes the American
killed and wounded 111 (Porter, 124), and not 69, as James says. The latter's statement is
wilfully false, as he had seen Hilyar's letter.] He also bears very candid testimony to the
defence of the Essex having been effective enough to at one time render the result doubtful,
saying: "Our first attack * * * produced no visible effect. Throughout the war no ship was
so desperately defended as the Essex, taking into account the frightful odds against which
she fought, which always enhances the merit of a defence. The Lawrence, which suffered even
more, was backed by a fleet; the Frolic was overcome by an equal foe; and the Reindeer fought
at far less of a disadvantage, and suffered less. None of the frigates, British or American,
were defended with any thing like the resolution she displayed.

But it is perhaps permissible to inquire whether Porter's course, after the accident to his
top-mast occurred, was altogether the best that could have been taken. On such a question no
opinion could have been better than Farragut's, although of course his judgment was ex post
facto, as he was very young at the time of the fight.

"In the first place, I consider our original and greatest error was in attempting to regain
the anchorage; being greatly superior in sailing powers we should have borne up and run before
the wind. If we had come in contact with the Phoebe we should have carried her by boarding;
if she avoided us, as she might have done by her greater ability to manoeuvre, then we should
have taken her fire and passed on, leaving both vessels behind until we had replaced our top-mast,
by which time they would have been separated, as unless they did so it would have been no chase,
the Cherub being a dull sailer.

"Secondly, when it was apparent to everybody that we had no chance of success under the circumstances,
the ship should have been run ashore, throwing her broadside to the beach to prevent raking,
and fought as long as was consistent with humanity, and then set on fire. But having determined
upon anchoring we should have bent a spring on to the ring of the anchor, instead of to the
cable, where it was exposed, and could be shot away as fast as put on."

But it must be remembered that when Porter decided to anchor near shore, in neutral water,
he could not anticipate Hilyar's deliberate and treacherous breach of faith. I do not allude
to the mere disregard of neutrality. Whatever international moralists may say, such disregard
is a mere question of expediency. If the benefits to be gained by attacking a hostile ship
in neutral waters are such as to counterbalance the risk of incurring the enmity of the neutral
power, why then the attack ought to be made. Had Hilyar, when he first made his appearance
off Valparaiso, sailed in with his two ships, the men at quarters and guns out, and at once
attacked Porter, considering the destruction of the Essex as outweighing the insult to Chili,
why his behavior would have been perfectly justifiable. In fact this is unquestionably what
he intended to do, but he suddenly found himself in such a position, that in the even of hostilities,
his ship would be the captured one, and he owed his escape purely to Porter's over-forbearance,
under great provocation Then he gave his word to Potter that he would not infringe on the neutrality;
and he never dared to break it, until he saw Porter was disabled and almost helpless! This
may seem strong language to use about a British officer, but it is justly strong. Exactly as
any outsider must consider Warrington's attack on the British brig Nautilus in 1815, as a piece
of needless cruelty; so any outsider must consider Hilyar as having most treacherously broken
faith with Porter.

After the fight Hilyar behaved most kindly and courteously to the prisoners; and, as already
said, he fought his ship most ably, for it would have been quixotic to a degree to forego his
advantages. But previous to the battle his conduct had been over-cautious. It was to be expected
that the Essex would make her escape as soon as practicable, and so he should have used every
effort to bring her to action. Instead of this he always declined the fight when alone; and
he owed his ultimate success to the fact that the Essex instead of escaping, as she could several
times have done, stayed, hoping to bring the Phoebe to action single-handed. It must be remembered
that the Essex was almost as weak compared to the Phoebe, as the Cherub was compared to the
Essex. The latter was just about midway between the British ships, as may be seen by the following
comparison. In the action the Essex fought all six of her long 12's, and the Cherub both her
long 9's, instead of the corresponding broadside carronades which the ships regularly used.
This gives the Essex a better armament than she would have had fighting her guns as they were
regularly used; but it can be seen how great the inequality still was. It must also be kept
in mind, that while in the battles between the American 44's and British 38's, the short weight
24-pounders of the former had in reality no greater range or accuracy than the full weight
18's of their opponents, in this case the Phoebe's full weight 18's had a very much greater
range and accuracy than the short weight 12's of the Essex.

COMPARATIVE FORCE.

           Men.   Broadside Guns.    Weight.         Total.

Phoebe,  320     13 long  18's     234 lbs.
                    1 "     12        12 "
                    1 "      9         9 "           (255)
                    7 short 32's     224 "
                    1 "     18        18 "           (242)

                   23 guns.          497 lbs.

Cherub,  180      2 long   9's      18 lbs.         (18)
                    2 short 18's      36 "
                    9 "     32's     288 "           (342)

                   13 guns.          342 lbs.

         500 men.  36 guns.          839 lbs. metal.
                                     -+- 273 long.  -+-
                                      '- 566 short. -'

Essex,   255      6 long  12's      66 lbs.       -+- Taking 7 per
                   17 short 32's     504 "           |    cent off
                                                     |    for short
                                                     '-   weight.

         255 men,  32 guns,          570 lbs.

All accounts agree as to the armament of the Essex. I have taken that of the Phoebe and Cherub
from James; but Captain Porter's official letter, and all the other American accounts make
the Phoebe's broadside 15 long 18's and 8 short 32's, and give the Cherub, in all, 18 short
32's, 8 short 24's, and two long nines. This would make their broadside 904 lbs., 288 long,
616 short. I would have no doubt that the American accounts were right if the question rested
solely on James' veracity; but he probably took his figures from official sources. At any rate,
remembering the difference between long guns and carronades, it appears that the Essex was
really nearly intermediate in force between the Phoebe and the Cherub. The battle being fought,
with a very trifling exception, at long range, it was in reality a conflict between a crippled
ship throwing a broadside of 66 lbs. of metal, and two ships throwing 273 lbs., who by their
ability to manoeuvre could choose positions where they could act with full effect, while their
antagonist could not return a shot. Contemporary history does not afford a single instance
of so determined a defence against such frightful odds.

The official letters of Captains Hilyar and Porter agree substantially in all respects; the
details of the fight, as seen in the Essex, are found in the "Life of Farragut." But although
the British captain does full justice to his foe, British historians have universally tried
to belittle Porter's conduct. It is much to be regretted that we have no British account worth
paying attention to of the proceedings before the fight, when the Phoebe declined single combat
with the Essex. James, of course, states that the Phoebe did not decline it, but he gives no
authority, and his unsupported assertion would be valueless even if uncontradicted. His account
of the action is grossly inaccurate as he has inexcusably garbled Hilyar's report. One instance
of this I have already mentioned, as regards Hilyar's account of Porter's loss. Again, Hilyar
distinctly states that the Essex was twice on fire, yet James (p. 418) utterly denies this,
thereby impliedly accusing the British captain of falsehood. There is really no need of the
corroboration of Porter's letter, but he has it most fully in the "Life of Farragut," p. 37:
"The men came rushing up from below, many with their clothes burning, which were torn from
them as quickly as possible, and those for whom this could not be done were told to jump overboard
and quench the flames. * * * One man swam to shore with scarcely a square inch of his body
which had not been burned, and, although he was deranged for some days, he ultimately recovered,
and afterward served with me in the West Indies." The third unfounded statement in James' account
is that buckets of spirits were found in all parts of the main deck of the Essex, and that
most of the prisoners were drunk. No authority is cited for this, and there is not a shadow
of truth in it. He ends by stating that "few even in his own country will venture to speak
well of Captain David Porter." After these various paragraphs we are certainly justified in
rejecting James' account in toto. An occasional mistake is perfectly excusable, and gross ignorance
of a good many facts does not invalidate a man's testimony with regard to some others with
which he is acquainted; but a wilful and systematic perversion of the truth in a number of
cases throws a very strong doubt on a historian's remaining statements, unless they are supported
by unquestionable authority.

But if British historians have generally given Porter much less than his due, by omitting all
reference to the inferiority of his guns, his lost top-mast, etc., it is no worse than Americans
have done in similar cases. The latter, for example, will make great allowances in the case
of the Essex for her having carronades only, but utterly fail to allude to the Cyane and Levant
as having suffered under the same disadvantage. They should remember that the rules cut both ways.

The Essex having suffered chiefly above the waterline, she was repaired sufficiently in Valparaiso
to enable her to make the voyage to England, where she was added to the British navy. The Essex
Junior was disarmed and the American prisoners embarked in her for New York, on parole. But
Lieutenant McKnight, Chaplain Adams, Midshipman Lyman, and 11 seamen were exchanged on the
spot for some of the British prisoners on board the Essex Junior. McKnight and Lyman accompanied
the Phoebe to Rio Janeiro, where they embarked on a Swedish vessel, were taken out of her by
the Wasp, Captain Blakely, and were lost with the rest of the crew of that vessel. The others
reached New York in safety. Of the prizes made by the Essex, some were burnt or sunk by the
Americans, and some retaken by the British. And so, after nearly two years' uninterrupted success,
the career of the Essex terminated amid disasters of all kinds. But at least her officers and
crew could reflect that they had afforded an example of courage in adversity that it would
be difficult to match elsewhere.

The first of the new heavy sloops of war that got to sea was the Frolic, Master Commandant
Joseph Bainbridge, which put out early in February. Shortly afterward she encountered a large
Carthagenian privateer, which refused to surrender and was sunk by a broadside, nearly a hundred
of her crew being drowned. Before daylight on the 20th of April, lat. 24 deg. 12' N., long.
81 deg. 25' W., she fell in with the British 36-gun frigate Orpheus, Capt. Pigot, and the 12-gun
schooner Shelburne, Lieut. Hope, both to leeward. The schooner soon weathered the Frolic, but
of course was afraid to close, and the American sloop continued beating to windward, in the
effort to escape, for nearly 13 hours; the water was started, the anchors cut away, and finally
the guns thrown overboard--a measure by means of which both the Hornet, the Rattlesnake, and
the Adams succeeded in escaping under similar circumstances,--but all was of no avail, and
she was finally captured. The court of inquiry honorably acquitted both officers and crew.
As was to be expected James considers the surrender a disgraceful one, because the guns were
thrown overboard. As I have said, this was a measure which had proved successful in several
cases of a like nature; the criticism is a piece of petty meanness. Fortunately we have Admiral
Codrington's dictum on the surrender ("Memoirs," vol. 1, p. 310), which he evidently considered
as perfectly honorable.

A sister ship to the Frolic, the Peacock, Capt. Lewis Warrington, sailed from New York on March
12th, and cruised southward; on the 28th of April, at seven in the morning, lat. 17 deg. 47'
N., long. 80 deg. 7' W., several sail were made to windward. [Footnote: Official letter of
Capt. Warrington, April 29. 1814.] These were a small convoy of merchant-men, bound for the
Bermudas, under the protection of the 18-gun brig-sloop Epervier, Capt. Wales, 5 days out of
Havana, and with $118,000 in specie on board. [Footnote: James, vi, 424.] The Epervier when
discovered was steering north by east, the wind being from the eastward; soon afterward the
wind veered gradually round to the southward, and the Epervier hauled up close on the port
tack, while the convoy made all sail away, and the Peacock came down with the wind on her starboard
quarter. At 10 A.M. the vessels were within gun-shot, and the Peacock edged away to get in
a raking broadside, but the Epervier frustrated this by putting her helm up until close on
her adversary's bow, when she rounded to and fired her starboard guns, receiving in return
the starboard broadside of the Peacock at 10.20 A.M. These first broadsides took effect aloft,
the brig being partially dismantled, while the Peacock's fore-yard was totally disabled by
two round shot in the starboard quarter, which deprived the ship of the use of her fore-sail
and fore-top-sail, and compelled her to run large. However, the Epervier eased away [Footnote:
According to some accounts she at this time tacked.] when abaft her foe's beam, and ran off
alongside of her (using her port guns, while the American still had the starboard battery engaged)
at 10.35. The Peacock's fire was now very hot, and directed chiefly at her adversary's hull,
on which it told heavily, while she did not suffer at all in return. The Epervier coming up
into the wind, owing somewhat to the loss of head-sail, Capt. Wales called his crew aft to
try boarding, but they refused, saying "she's too heavy for us," [Footnote: James, "Naval Occurrences,"
p. 243.] and then, at 11.05 the colors were hauled down.

Except the injury to her fore-yard, the Peacock's damages were confined to the loss of a few
top-mast and top-gallant backstays, and some shot-holes through her sails. Of her crew, consisting,
all told, of 166 men and boys, [Footnote: "Niles' Register," vi. 196, says only 160; the above
is taken from Warrington's letter of June 1st, preserved with the other manuscript letters
in the Naval Archives. The crew contained about 10 boys, was not composed of picked men, and
did not number 185--vide James.] only two were wounded, both slightly. The Epervier, on the
other hand, had 45 shot-holes in her hull, 5 feet of water in her hold, main-top-mast over
the side, main-mast nearly in two, main-boom shot away, bowsprit wounded severely, and most
of the fore-rigging and stays shot away; and of her crew of 128 men (according to the list
of prisoners given by Captain Warrington; James says 118, but he is not backed up by any official
report) 9 were killed and mortally wounded, and 14 severely and slightly wounded. Instead of
two long sixes for bow-chasers, and a shifting carronade, she had two 18-pound carronades (according
to the American prize-lists; [Footnote: American State Papers, vol. xiv, p. 427.] Capt. Warrington
says 32's). Otherwise she was armed as usual. She was, like the rest of her kind, very "tubby,"
being as broad as the Peacock, though 10 feet shorter on deck. Allowing, as usual, 7 per cent,
for short weight of the American shot, we get the

                     COMPARATIVE FORCE.

            Tons.  No. Broadside Guns.  Weight Metal.  Crew.  Loss.
Peacock   509           11                  315       166     2
Epervier  477            9                  274       128    23

