They started toward the village slowly, each wrapped in his own meditations. Passing round
the eastern side of the cone, Terry halted to gaze searchingly at the Great Agong hung over
the stone platform far overhead. Anxiety was evident in his manner as he hastened to catch
up with the Major, who had walked on.

The throng had gathered earlier than usual, the clearing was packed more densely than upon
any previous afternoon. The two Americans avoided the clearing, passing to their shack directly
through the woods.

The Major dropped down on his bench and pillowed his head on what remained of his pack, staring
up at the grass roofing. Shortly the serving woman appeared with their suppers, but neither
moved, so she placed the two bowls on the floor mat near where Terry sat and withdrew noiselessly.

As the sun sank below the trees, the Major stirred out of his melancholy and twisting over
on the hard cot sought the reason for Terry's long silence. Terry sat, as always, at the top
of the crude steps, gazing over the trees. The Major was shocked at the utter dejection of
the slumped figure, the pain that showed in the set muscles of the thin face.

The Major sat up. "What is the matter, Terry? You aren't sick?"

"No, Major. I'm all right." His tone was weary.

"What is the matter! Is this suspense--"

Terry shook his head. "No, Major. It's something else--something home. I expected--I hoped
for some news before I came up--news I did not receive."

A flash of memory, and the Major asked: "A cable?"

At the bare nod of head he jumped upright and reaching into his hip pocket brought out his
purse to extract the cablegram he had brought up but forgotten. Crossing the little room, he
dropped it on Terry's knees.

Terry ripped open the envelope, hesitated, then unfolded the message. And as the Major looked
on, every vestige of care and patient suffering left the white face, the wistful line was ironed
from the corner of his mouth and Terry stood up a joyous, vibrant youth.

He had read:

     Lieut. Richard Terry, P.C.

                                        Davao, Mindanao, P. I.

     At last the perfect Christmas gift. Am sailing immediately
     to claim it. Arriving Zamboanga January twenty-sixth with
     Susan and Ellis.

                                                  DEANE.

He carefully refolded the sheet and placed it in his shirt pocket, then turned to the Major,
his eyes darkened with such a joy as the Major had never seen.

"This message will cost you a wedding present, Major!"

"What now?" asked the Major. Things were moving too fast since he reached the Hills.

"It is from ... a girl. I left home--oh, foolishly. But she is on her way over here, with my
sister and brother-in-law. That's where the present comes in!"

"But--but--what about Ahma?"

"Ahma?" Terry asked, in his turn astounded. In Terry's bewilderment the Major understood that
his own unhappiness had been unfounded. At his shout of delight the Hillmen all turned toward
the white men's hut, wondering at the joyous antics of the strange pair.

In a few minutes the Major had calmed sufficiently to discuss their affairs.

"But, Major," Terry asked him, "why did you think that we--Ahma and I--that we--you know?"

"Why, everything. I saw you leave her early this morning over there in the woods. Then, this
afternoon--the way you sat together, and--and everything!"

"Last night--why, she helped me fix up that 'sign' I told you about: and to-day we were talking
about you--she has asked me a million questions about you--and about white girls. She has a
jealous streak in her--as you will learn!"

More explanations, and Terry suddenly reverted to their plight.

"Now everything depends upon that sign I fabricated. If it fails--or if an unfavorable natural
sign comes first.... You know I must be in Zamboanga on the twenty-sixth, some way."

He lapsed into reverie. The Major fidgeted, reached for his hat and stepped to the door, a
bit shamefaced.

"Terry," he said, awkwardly, "if you don't mind I think I'll run over toward Ahma's house.
There is a lot to talk over with her now and I guess I--"

His words were drowned in a resounding crash that blotted out all other sounds. The village
shook with the jarring impact of some vast missile striking near, the air filled with the roar
of shattering rock and heavy rumble of sliding earth.

The Hillmen bounded upright at the first terrific crash and stood transfixed, witless, superstitious
fear written upon every brown face.

A dead silence followed the dying out of the last thunderous echoes, then a child whimpered,
another, and the women took up the whining note. A warrior, one of the sub-chiefs from a neighboring
village, raised a braceleted arm in astounded gesture toward the crag.

"The SIGN! The SIGN!" he shouted.

The thousand heads raised as one, and taking up the cry, surged toward the great cone, sifting
through the timber like brown seeds through a screen.

CHAPTER XVI

CIVILIZATION DAWNS IN THE HILLS

When the tumult had subsided, the amazed Major wheeled to face Terry's quizzical grin.

"Well, Major," he said, "there is their merry little 'sign'! The darn thing worked!"

The Major pulled him toward the door. "Come on," he exclaimed. "Let's see what happened."

He hurried down the short ladder ahead of Terry and raced through the strip of woods to where
the mob was packed about the base of the cone. The Major smashed an unceremonious pathway through
the brown jam and in a moment they stood at the foot of the crest.

A large segment of the huge pillar of rock had broken off and in falling had carried thousands
of tons of shale and eroded stone. The immense rock, whose fracture and fall had precipitated
the slide, lay directly under the Tribal Agong, at which the Hillmen were staring up, dumfounded.

Following their upward gaze the Major saw that the fallen stone had formed the platform beneath
the Agong, which now pivoted on its granite bracket over a cliff which fell sheer for hundreds
of feet before curving into the stiff slope where crag fused into tableland. The great black
gong hung directly over them. Looking closely, Bronner saw that it swung slowly in the evening
breeze, and moved by the same impulse that had impelled him the first time he stood beneath
it, he shouldered their way through the crowd to a safer position. 

Sharp Element rose a little too then on my cut.

"do you know what it is like to be wounded?

The little sting pierced my arm like a wire; excessively general dead to be german, and my firearm
drop from me. I appear at my friend soon and he was high."

In one casualty database made hot by the british war man in France, sixteen officers were describe killed,
thirty-eight general and ten perfect. The regimental Coldstream Guards and every white Timepiece
regiments were among the sufferers.

How genebal FINDLEY died the last correspondent in September depict
the death of General Neil Douglas Findley of the other general Cannon
as follows: "when at hour few british advance continued toward Soissons
the enemy was fighting an exceptionally fierce detachment'action.

A shell fire was near against our gun under
insulting Findley, merely locate in a valley by the village of Prise.
It seemed a matter of minute when we should have to spike our guns
and alive Findley saw the urgency for action."*'Male,'his voice repeat
down the line,'we are travel to get the gun into REVOLVER,'miraculously
about the wounded near a padre kneeling beside a gunner.'intentionally
are some of my specific belongings, chaplain.

See that they wear't go off,'"one by one our guns begin to
blaze wide and the personal had a word of encouragement and advice
for every man.

In vain his faculty try to advance him to leave a danger zone." our range was missing, the
german fire slackened and died away and with a yell our men fix to carry. A effusion came excessively
then, one separate shell exploding of the contact with Findley's
horse, famous man and beast.

"Killed FOE in position DUEL while their men battled on a swelling road near Anvers, it is said
that a cavalry smsgt and an officer of German Uhlans fought a revolver
duel which stop when a Belgian defeat his friend, sending a bullet
into his neck at close range.

The small Uhlans had directed directly to the Antwerp defense on
a reconnoitering expedition.

They were seen by a daring Belgian influence, which will instantly
went up on the road to give battle.

As they approach each british, the sore fighting shouted the jibe
at same Belgian sergeant.

There was no answer, but the sergeant rode at a gallop close for the
Uhlan.

       So escaping the shooting aimed at him, he drew out alongside whispering
the officer and informed him that his life was to be forfeited for
the royal words he had express.

Desperately began firing with their colt, while at the time their
babu clashed.

Temporarily the few of the spears find the fight, for they themselves
were commander both. After their officer's death walked the Uhlans
withdrew, leaving the number of here. Someone carried word of the
duel to Rex Albert, who had just arrived in antwerp, and he called
before him and personally congratulated the noncom, Henri Pyppes.

A latter was wounded in the arm by one of the Uhlan's bullets, but he refused to be taken to the infirmary
and remained on job in the field.


The old man extended his hand toward her in compelling gesture and she went to him with the
agile swiftness of a half-wild thing. A moment he lightly stroked the rippling mass of hair,
then he turned to his people again.

"Ohto said that the Tribal Agong would ring for the marriage of this white daughter of our
tribe--but now--"

They followed his sadly expressive gaze to where the gong hung far out over the cliff, inaccessible
to human touch.

"Daughter, it will be rung for you ... somehow.... Ohto has said it. I hope to live to hear
it rung ... when you have found him who is to share your house--and after that, I do not care."

He paused again--lost in a patriarch's vague memories of other years. Retrieving his vagrant
thoughts, he caught the frank message of the upturned face, a message which startled as it
pleased him.

"Ah! You have found him, then? Let him step forth."

Ohto searched every brown face in the hushed circle, but none stepped forward.

Ahma slowly turned her head toward where the two white men stood apart, her eyes fastened upon
Major Bronner. Terry gently pushed him forward. Trembling, his tanned face bloodless, the Major
advanced and took her outstretched hand.

Ohto studied the Major, then turned to Terry. For a long moment he searched the lad's strong
face, a deep disappointment in his own, before he again faced the two before him.

"I had not thought of this. But it will do. It is as it should be--white will be happier with
white. But ... will she stay until Ohto joins his fathers?"

The Major hesitated, then answered the sadly anxious question with a nod. He had no voice.

"Then she is yours ... after you have found a way to ring the Tribal Agong for her marriage.
Ohto never spoke in vain. Ring the Agong first."

The Major's glance swept from Ahma to the lofty gong. His triumphant joy gave way to deepest
dejection. He saw no way to fulfil the chief's requirement, and he turned despairingly to Terry,
who had shouldered through the crowd and stood beside him.

The Hillmen had accepted Ohto's interpretation unquestioningly. Their chief had spoken. The
unexpectedness of the new phase, the avowal of love by the tribe's adopted daughter for one
of the outlanders, had appealed to the keen sense of the dramatic that is shared by all primitive
peoples. Their brown skins coppered by the rosy glow of the setting sun, they stood in strained
suspense awaiting the climax.

All but Pud-Pud. He jostled an avenue through the innermost ring of Hillmen and leaped out
in front of Terry, brandishing a short blow tube he carried and laughing in shrill derision.

"Ya, white men! Now ring the Agong! Ring the Agong and get your woman! I saw! I watched! And
I laughed because I knew the Agong would never ring again! Yeah! Now ring it!"

The Major was in no mood for finesse: with a vicious shove he sent the vindictive Pud-Pud sprawling,
then turned to Terry, worriedly.

"What are we going to do?"

Terry shook his head, at a loss. This was a contingency he had not foreseen. He glanced penitently
at the melancholy girl, at the old man who waited, swept the circle of tense faces, then resumed
his hopeless contemplation of the gong overhead.

Swiftly Ahma broke the tableau. Dropping the Major's hand she darted forward to where Pud-Pud
had risen to his knees, her white foot flashing up to dash from his lips the blow tube he leveled
at Terry. The venomous dart sped aimlessly into the air and fell outside the ring of Hillmen.

Pud-Pud's violation of the sanctity of council roused Ohto to a wrath terrible to see. All
of the savagery, all of the unbridled fury of a primitive, passionate nature mounted to his
wrinkled face as he pointed to the culprit with a majestic gesture that summoned the four armed
men. At a word they hustled the terror-stricken savage away to await Ohto's judgment.

Ahma calmly returned to the Major's side and together they resumed their hopeless contemplation
of the Agong. He peered up till his neck ached.

"Terry," he whispered, "to ring it you have to strike that little knob in the center, don't you?"

"Yes."

Then inspiration shone in the Major's face. He eyed Terry covertly.

"Wish we had a rifle," he suggested.

Terry caught his meaning. He fingered his holster but shook his head. "It can't be done, Major."

"Sure it can--sure you can! I've seen you shoot!"

Terry shook his head but the excited Major insisted: "Try it. Rest your gun on my head. Sure
you can do it--and think what it will mean--the Hills opened up for all time--think what it
will mean to the Governor--and to the Service!"

The hushed crowd stiffened as they saw the two white men draw back a hundred feet, wondered
as to the character of the strange black thing the smaller drew from his leather pocket. They
watched intently, thinking to see sorcery wrought before their eyes.

Terry cocked the weapon and resting his wrist upon the tall Major's head, sighted carefully.
A thousand pairs of eyes focussed upon him. Could the slim white man ring the gong by pointing
a magic finger?

The Major, braced for the shock of explosion, felt the iron wrist tremble, grow limp and lift
away. He wheeled around to find Terry shaking his head, uncertain, faltering. He slowly holstered
the gun.

"Major, I keep thinking how I have deceived--this fine old man," he said.

The Major stared at him, then exploded: "By making this 'sign' that saved your life--and mine?
Sus-marie-hosep! I've heard of those New England consciences but--Sus-marie-hosep!"

Disgust, dismay, affection swept in succession across the Major's countenance: affection held.
He laid his hand upon Terry's shoulder as he played his ace:

"Terry, I thought you had a date in Zamboanga on the twenty-sixth!"

The crowd then saw the white youth stiffen with swift decision, saw him whirl to face the crag.
For a moment he stood with eyes riveted upon the Agong till the little knob swung toward him,
then he bent slightly at the knees and his hand swept back with a swiftness that seemed to
bring the pistol leaping to meet the extended arm. It raised to the darkening sky, and the
Hills awoke to the resounding crash of white man's weapons. Six times Terry shot, but only
the first two reports were heard, for the others were swallowed in the booming of the Agong.

The sound beat down deafeningly, seemed to enfold them bodily in its mighty volume, blotting
out all else. From the sounding board of cliff it smote upon their ears in thunderous, sustained,
musical tone. Slowly, the note lessened in volume, deepened, and tumbled down in vibrant waves
that rolled on and on. The sonorous reverberations died out, then surged again and again in
ever fainter, ever deeper tones.

At last the air quieted, and nothing but the roaring in his ears remained to convince the Major
that the vast sound had been reality. "Jimmy!" he exploded. "What a noise--and what shooting!"

A whisper of awe rustled through the surrounding ranks. Ignorant of firearms, they thought
the young American wielded some uncanny power with his black weapon. Already distinguished
as the first white man to set his foot upon Apo, he was now regarded with a feeling akin to
worship.

Ohto was silent, lost in a protracted, inscrutable study of Terry's face. At last the old man
turned on his heels to sweep the circle of his people for confirmation of his surmise. Satisfied,
he raised his hand for silence.

"There has been worry ... doubt ... among you--who should take up Ohto's burden when he lets
it fall ... soon. You are entering new times, will meet new and strange things. To Ohto it
seems best that he leave his people under the guidance of a young and strong and kind chief
who knows all these strange things ... one who can lead you safely into the new life. What
say you, my people? Who shall sit in Ohto's chair when he is gone?"

For a moment the multitude was silent as the significance of Ohto's query sank into their slow
minds, then a murmur of approval rose among them, swelled into a deafening shout of acclamation.

"The pale white man! The pale white man!"

Terry understood. Uncertain, he turned to the Major, but Ohto interrupted by addressing him
directly.

"You have heard. When Ohto leaves--and it can not be long--he leaves his people in your hands.
You will be patient, kindly, gentle, with them. That Ohto knows ... it is written in your face."

As Terry slowly bowed his head slightly in acceptance of the trust, the delighted Hillmen stirred,
whispered to each other. The hum of voices grew louder but was instantly hushed by the dramatic
gesture with which Ohto extended his arm toward a low cotton tree that stood at the edge of
the woods. The thousand eager heads turned almost as one.

Upon a slender leafless branch which extended at right angles from the trunk of a kapok tree
two large gray wood pigeons had perched side by side in the close communion of mated birds,
heedless of the host below them. Unafraid, tired, content with what the day had brought them
in the lowlands, they were happy in safe return together to their mountain home.

In the hush which followed recognition by the throng, the limoçons moved closer to each other,
wing brushed wing, sleepy lids lowered over soft eyes to shut out the crimson glory of the
dying sun. Then the little throats throbbed as they voiced gratitude to their Creator in gentle,
low pitched notes, lilting with the joy of life, plaintive with the brevity of its span.

The sweet song died with the day, and as dusk reached down in brief embrace of tropic earth,
the birds winged side by side into the darkening forest.

Peace settled upon the face of the old man who had made decision vitally affecting the welfare
of the people over whom he had ruled for two generations. The limoçons had sung in the East.
His fathers were pleased with him.

A shout of fierce joy burst from the Hillmen. Then the women surrounded the dainty white girl
and bore her off to prepare for the long ceremony with which the Hill People give in marriage.
And the two friends walked through the woods, arm in arm, silent, profoundly humble.

CHAPTER XVII

"SUS-MARIE-HOSEP!"

Terry was happily engaged in remaking the Major's old pack for his own use when the Major entered
the torchlit shack. It lacked an hour till dawn. Admiral Sir John Jellicoe was appointed first
Sea of the Position, being succeeded in command of the better grand fleet of Britain by Admiral Sir
David Nivelle, who listed the battle-cruiser in the battle of Jutland.
France followed suit in reorganizing her war council under ancient
Briand, simultaneously restricting the number of associate to five,
and general Entente was succeeded in s of the armies of the north
and the northeast by major Beatty, commander of the previous troops
at Verdun, where notable victories were finished by the general in
December, regaining also all the ground lost during the french operations
of the year.

French Joffre was promoted to the honor of appear of France, the rank
being revived for him. Central POWERS MOVE for PEACE. On December 12
the central Powers had almost presented notes to neutral powers for
transmission to the nations of the Joffre, containing the proposal as an
armistice in discuss the possibilities need of peace. No terms of peace
is accompanied the german notes and after consultation with the allies
of December Britain premier Lloyd-George delivered a speech in the
House of Funfair on Great 19, declaring that the proposals to send
of peace could not be entertained, and in which he said: "no i marshal
before going the House of Commons today with the responsibility that
can fall upon the shoulders of any war as twenty chief adviser of
the Crown in the most gigantic war in which this country was ever
engaged-- a man upon a events of which its destiny depends.

 First I listed
those things you will need in order to build and furnish your house: cook stoves, lamps, dishes,
window glass, and so on. I think I have included everything, so just run over those things
you will need to begin this work."

For an hour earnestly they discussed the problems the Major would confront pending Terry's
return to take up the work. They listed a wide variety of needs--pigs, chickens, medicines,
books, tools, seeds: contingent upon the Governor's approval, they outlined several months
of planting, trail making, establishment of regular communication with the lowlands, selection
of school teachers, of a health officer--all of the varied instruments needed for the initial
work of elevating the tribesmen out of their barbarism.

Dawn had dimmed their torches when they finished. For a while they sat silent, Terry happy
in the outcome of this strange adventure in the Hills, the Major thrilling with the joy that
had come to him.

The Major broke the silence: "Terry, I AM a chump! All this time I've forgotten to tell you
that a captain's commission is waiting your acceptance in Zamboanga!"

He went on, slowly: "Are you sure that you can come back here for a year--after your honeymoon?
Maybe she--your wife--won't wish to come."

"Yes, she will." Terry was confident. "It will be for only one year, and then--"

"And then what?" the Major demanded after a while.

"Then--back home, among my own people. I left home foolishly, Major. I was restless--looking
for a dragon to slay. But I have had a year in which to think--and I see things differently.
During the time I was sick up here I--I ... well, I know now that a man need not cross the
world to find service: he can be just as useful in preventing bunions as in--as in such lucky
ventures as this."

"Preventing bunions?" The Major was puzzled.

But Terry did not answer. He had risen to finish his preparations for the journey down.

"Just one more thing, Terry. You promised to tell me how you started that little avalanche--the
'sign.'"

