It might be supposed that only persons filled with public charities and social improvements,
ardent and painstaking church workers, might most surely and easily learn to be messengers.
But all these persons pursue and follow their own line of thought, the promptings of their
own minds and hearts. They are admirable workers, but not messengers. For the hound of God
must have in his heart no plan of his own. It is hard for the heart to say, "I have no wishes
of my own; I have no interests, no plans, no ambitions, no schemes, no desires, no loves, no
will. Thy will is my will. Thy desire is my desire. Thy love is my all. I am empty of all things,
that I may be a channel for the stream of Thy will."

With what patience, what tenderness, what inexpressible endearments He helps the soul, training
her by love!--which is not to say that she is trained without much suffering of the creature.
So we are trained by two opposite ways--by suffering and by joys; and the whole under an attitude
of passionate and devoted attention on our part. The sufferings of the soul baffle all description
with their strange intensities.

Our encouragements are great and extraordinary sweetnesses, urgings, and joyful uplifting of
the spirit. So that when we would stop, we are pressed forward; when we are exhausted, we are
filled with the wine of sweetness; when we are in tears, we are embraced into the Holy Spirit.

* * *

Sin and ill are the false notes struck by man across the harmony of God's will, and to strike
upon or even remember such notes is instant banishment from the music of His presence. Where
all is joy, there joy is all; and he who has not reached this joy does not know God--he is
still a follower, and not a possessor, and he should refuse in his heart to remain satisfied
with his condition, but climb on. Why stay behind? Climb on, climb on!

How often I have been mystified and disturbed by the attitude of many religious and pious people,
that to follow Christ is a way of gloom, of sadness, of heaviness! How often have I gathered
from sermons that we are to give up all bright and enticing things if we would follow Him,
and the preacher goes no further! Has the Lord, then, no enticements, no sweetnesses, no brightness
to offer us, that we should be asked to forsake all pleasantnesses, all brightness, all attractions
if we follow Him? This to me always seemed terrible, and my heart would sink. Indeed, to my
poor mind and heart it seemed nothing more hopeful than a going from bad to worse!

All the pictures I have seen, either of the Crucifixion or the Way of the Cross (and especially
those of more recent times and painting), portray His Blessed Face all worn with gloom; and
I know now that this is far from the truth. For perfect love knows agony, but no gloom. He
went through all His agony, lifted high above gloom, in a great ecstasy of love for us.

To speak of sacrifice in connection with following Him is, to my mind, the work of a very foolish
person and one in danger of being blasphemous. For how dare we say that it is a sacrifice when,
by the putting away of foolish desires, we find God! And to find God, through the following
of Jesus Christ, is to gain so much (even in this world, and without waiting for the next)
that those who gain it never cease to be amazed at the vastness of it.

We find this to be an absolute truth, that if we have not Him we have, and are, nothing, in
comparison with that which we are and that which we have when we have Him.

In my earlier stages I was greatly set back and disturbed by this gloom and sacrifice (which
is no sacrifice) of myself so put forward by pulpit teaching. It was a great hindrance to me
and blinded me to the truth. I was only a normal, ordinary creature, and they thrust a great
burden into my arms.

Little by little, as I was able to learn directly from His own heart, I came to know Him as
He is; and I could not reconcile this knowledge of Himself which He gave me, especially of
His high willingness and serenity, with pulpit teachings of heavy gloom. The Church too frequently
spoke to me of following Him in terms which conveyed a burden: "Pick up thy cross, pick up
thy cross!" they cried; and He spoke to me in terms which conveyed a great joy: "Come to Me,
come to Me, for I love thee!"

I thought I was very cowardly and sinned by this inability to like the gloomy burden, and one
day I came upon this out of Jeremiah: "As for the prophet, or the priest, or the people, that
shall say, The burden of the Lord, I will punish that man and his house . . . because ye say,
The burden of the Lord, I will utterly forget you and forsake you, and cast you out of My presence."

These words of Jesus, "Take up thy cross and follow Me": whoever will do it will be shown by
Jesus that the cross of following Him is no burden, but a deliverance, a finding of life, the
way of escape, a great joy, and a garland of love.

The world thinks of joyousness as being laughter, cackling, and much silly noise; and to such
I do not speak. But the Christ's joyousness is of a high, still, marvellous, and ineffable
completeness--beyond all words; and wholly satisfying to heart and soul and body and mind.

It is written, "They shall love silver, and not be satisfied with it"--for why? Only those
are satisfied who know the gold of Christ.

All of which is not to say that by following Him we shall escape from happenings and inconveniences
and sorrows and illnesses common to life; but that when these come we are raised out of our
distress into His ineffable peace.

When the heart is sad, use this sadness in a comprehension of the deeper pain of Jesus, who
was in the self-same exile as we ourselves. The more the soul is truly awakened and touched,
the more she feels herself to be in exile; and this is her cross.

But the remedy for her sadness is that she should courageously pass out of her woes of exile
and go up to meet her lover with smiles. Now, He cannot resist this smiling courage and love
of the soul, and very quickly He must send her His sweetness, and her sadness is gone.

* * *

When I say that if we will take a few steps alone towards Christ--which is to say, if we will
make some strenuous efforts to cleanse ourselves and change our minds and ways--He will take
us all the rest of the way, I speak from experience. For amongst many things this happened
to me: at a certain stage, after my third conversion on the hill, He caused my former thoughts,
desires, and follies to go away from me! It was as though He had sent a veil between me and
such thoughts of my heart and mind as might not be pleasing to Him, so that they disappeared
from my knowledge and my actions!

By this marvellous act He removed my difficulties, and put me into a state of innocence which
resembled the innocence I remember to have had up to the age of four or five years. But I find
this new innocence far more wonderful than that of childhood, which is but the innocence of
ignorance. But this new innocence--which is a gift of God--is innocence with knowledge. I am
not able to express the gratitude and amazement and wonder that have never ceased to fill me
about this. Such things can only be spoken of by the soul to her lover, and then not in words
but in a silence of tears.

What did I ever do that He should show me such kindness? I did nothing except this: I desired
with all the force of my heart and soul and mind and body to love Him. I said, "Oh, if I could
be the warmest, tenderest lover that ever thou didst have! Teach me to be Thy burning lover."
This was my perpetual prayer. And my idea of Heaven was and is this, that without so much as
knowing, or being known or perceived by any save Himself, without even a name, yet retaining
my full consciousness of individuality, I should be with Him for always.

What is this love for God, and how define it? For myself, I never knew it until I was filled
with it upon the hill. Many judge it to be a following of Christ and His wishes, but this is
only a part of it and the way we begin it, and often we begin from duty, fear of future punishment,
desire for salvation or spiritual pre-eminence, and obedience; and in none of these is there
the joy of love.

By such standards I might count myself to have loved Him for twenty years; but know I did not.
For ten years past I felt myself to have so great a need of Him, I sought Him so, that for
me Heaven contained no re-met former earthly loves, much as I loved them here. I knew that
He would be my all. Nevertheless, He was not yet my Love, but my Need.

Love is a fire, for we feel the great heat of it.

Love is a light, for we perceive the white glare of it.

Of things known, to what can we compare it? Most perhaps to electricity, for here we have both
light and heat, and the lightning flash strikes that which already contains the most of itself
(or electricity). And the lightning of God's love strikes him whose heart contains the most
love for Himself. And He strikes when He will, and afterwards visits when He will; and I do
not count myself (for all my earthly loves) to have so much as known the outer edge of the
meaning of the word love, till He struck me with His own upon that hill.

Truly, fair and holy love is our warranty, our only pass for entering into Heaven.

Brave and wilful, rapturous and insistent, love passes with bold yet humble ecstasy into the
very presence of her Lord and God; and alone, out of all creation, is never denied the Right
of Way.

* * *

I have seen it quoted, "Turn to the heights, turn to the deeps, turn within, turn without,
everywhere thou shalt find the Cross." Love to help on the way. Too much we might suppose,
to hear pious people talk, that because of Christ's way we must be miserable and our life an
endless Cross! And so life may be a cross, but He carries it for us.

Do sinful men never suffer? Do the sinful escape disease? and live for ever without biting
the dust in death or disappointment? Why, disease and suffering are the very twin-children
of sin. I am amazed that people can take such a view of the Cross as to think it an unhappy,
miserable way. For so marvellous is the beauty of such love that there is no other so desirable
a thing upon earth.

"Come, walk the way with Me," says the Beloved; "I am all serenity, all peace, all might, all
power, all love. Come, walk with Me, and forget thy tiny cares in the peace of My bosom."

* * *

We do not love God because we do not yet know Him. And we do not know Him because we seek only
to know and have our own desires: and having learnt to know these, we would have our unknown
God accommodate Himself to us and them.

But let us first seek to know God's desires by heart, and then accommodate our own to His:
so shall we learn to be pleasing to Christ, that He may lead us, whilst here, into His Garden.
For to the creature that ardently pursues God there comes at last a time when He reveals Himself
to the searching soul, saying: "I Am Here. Come!" Then in secrecy we arise,--and go to Him
out of the House of Vanity into the music of the great Beyond.

There is small credit or virtue to the soul when, in a state of high grace or nearness, she
burns with love for her God: for she is under the spell of the enticement of His Presence--how
can she help but burn! It is as though two earthly lovers, in full sight and nearness, are
filled each for each with great love, and are content.

But this is a credit to the soul and the creature (as to the earthly lovers), that in separation
and farness they should seek no other, but continue to dwell with great intentness upon the
absent love. This is fidelity.

At times it is as if her Lord said to the soul: "I have other to do than to stay by thee; and
also thou hast had more than enough to thy share of My honey"; and, so saying, He departs.

And this is fidelity of the soul and the creature, and a great virtue, that, without change
of face, without complaint or petitioning, they should with all sweetness continue to pour
up to Him their unabated love. If any can do this, he is a perfect lover and has no more to learn.

When the love of the soul, as it were, exceeds itself, it passes up and beyond even the song
of love; and being unable to express itself by words or by song, or by deep sighings, or by
any of those subtle, silent, spiritual means known only between herself and God, when all means
fail because of the too great stress of her adoration, then the soul passes into a great pain,
which is the anguish of love and a hard thing to bear. This excess is to the fullness of the
Godhead.

And now the soul must turn to prayer for help, but not to the Godhead: for the more she turns
to the Godhead the greater becomes her anguish. But coming down to His humanity, she must beseech
sweet Jesus for His aid, and so regain her equilibrium.

* * *

Many of us are, perhaps unwittingly, impudent to God. In this way we are impudent: We question
(even though it be in secret, hidden in the heart and not spoken) the justice of God, the ways
of God, the plans of God, the love of God: by which means we argue with God and judge Him.
And another manner of impudence we have is this, that we dare to attribute or to blame Him
for the results of man's own filth, saying: "This and this is the will of God, for we see that
it exists, and His will is omnipotent." Oh, beware of this impudence, drop it out of the heart
and mind, and flee from it as from the plague! "How then can these things be, if He is omnipotent?"
we say. Because of this, that in the trust of His great love He gave us the royal and Godly
gift of free-will, and our souls have proved themselves unworthy to have it; and now the creature
is brought before the Beautiful, and the Holy, and the Pure, but turning away, like the sow,
prefers the mire and the festering sores proceeding from such wallowings. If there were no
choice, there were no virtue, and no progress home. But let no man venture in his heart to
attribute to that Holy and Marvellous Being whom we speak of as God, not knowing as yet His
Name, any will towards festers and corruptions, for what does He say Himself? "Their sins rise
up before Me and stink in My nostrils!"

We surely forget that this world is not yet God's Kingdom, and that His will is not done here,
and will not be until the Judgment Day. This world is but a tiny testing-chamber in His mighty
workshop; and great and wonderful is the care He has for the workers in it.

O man! whence come thy wretchednesses? Look round and think. Do they not all proceed from self
and fellow-men, alive or dead? Then why blame God?

"Why am I here?" we cry, "to suffer all these pains, and my consent not asked? A poor, sad
puppet dancing to a tune I know not the rhythm of. Where is my recompense? And where my wages?
I will take all I can of what is offered here, and give no thanks! It is but my scant due for
all my wretchednesses!"

O foolish man! so timid of all future possibilities of bliss that he must grasp and burn himself
with such delights as he finds here! And equally mistaken and small-minded man who thinks that
all our Mighty God will have to offer us hereafter are crowns, damp clouds and mists, and endless
hymns! Such little hearts are far away indeed from knowing the magnitudes of Life.

O wretched man! why this distrust? Hast thou created even thine own palate and digestion? Hast
thou invented any of those fond delights that so enslave thee now? Hast thou thyself devised
the means wherewith to satisfy the longing of thy creature for the sweets of life? They were
provided thee; all that thou hast created is misuse! Thou art but a perverted thing!--a crooked
tool of self, a fly drowning in the honey that it sought too greedily to own!

O wretched, wretched man! so cloyed with sweets of earth thou canst not raise thy head to see
the sunrise out beyond the world, and know true sweets! How many are the tears wept over thee
by the great heart of God!

* * *

Since coming into this new way of living, the more I come into contact with music the more
I sense a mysterious connection between melody--the soul--and her origin. Alone out of all
the sciences and arts, music has no foundation upon anything on earth. There is no music in
nature until the soul, come to a perfect harmony within herself, brings out the hidden harmony
in all creation, and, turning it to melody within herself, returns it to her Lord in song,
whether by outward instrument or inward love.

The soul, indeed, would seem to have come out of a life of infinite melody and to have dropped
into an existence of mere contrary and vexing time-beat.

Who can by any means account for the variety of passions excited within him by the mere difference
of the spacing, time, or rhythm of music? In my new condition of living I notice that the soul
throws out with most disdainful impatience music that was formerly beautiful to my mind and
heart (or my creature); and certain types of flowing cadences (very rarely to be found), sustained
in high, flowing, delicate, and soaring continuity will produce in her conditions akin to a
madness of joy. For one brief instant she remembers! but cannot utter what!

Of visions I know nothing, but received all my experiences into my soul as amazingly real inward
perceptions. That these perceptions are of unprecedented intensity, and more realistic than
those which are merely visual, can be understood by bodily comparisons; for to feel or to be
one with fire is more than to see it.

To try to compare spiritual life with physical experiences would seem to be useless; for, to
my feeling, while we live in the spirit we live at a great speed,--indeed, an incalculably
great speed--and as a whole and not in parts. For with physical living we live at one moment
by the eyes, at another with the mind, at another through the heart, at another with the body.
But the spirit feels to have no parts, for all parts are of so perfect a concordance that in
this marvellous harmony all is one and one is all. And this with incredible intensity, so that
we live not as now--dully--but at white heat of sensibility.

Prayer

Prayer is the golden wedding-ring between ourselves and God. For myself, I divide it into two
halves--the one petitioning, the other offering.

Of petitioning I would say that this is the work of the soul; and of offering, that it is the
pleasure of the soul.

Of petitioning, that I come to it under His command; and of offering, that I come to it of
my own high, passionate desire.

I make upon my knees, three times a day, three short and formal prayers of humble worship,
as befits the creature worshipping its Ineffable and Mighty God: and for the rest of my time
I sing to Him from my heart and soul, as befits the joyful lover, adoring and conversing with
the Ineffable and Exquisite Beloved.

* * *

This is the circle of His way with us. First is prayer; then love; and after love, humility.
With humility comes grace; and after grace, temptation; and in temptation we must quickly enter
prayer again.

* * *

O wonderful and ineffable God! who, while remaining hidden from His lovers in this life, yet
so ravishes their hearts and minds and souls that they are unable to find truly sweet even
the greatest of life's former joys--for nothing can now ever satisfy them but the secret and
marvellous administrations of His love and grace! On one day feeling to be forsaken, the most
desolate and lonely of all creatures in the Universe; and on another exalted to almost unbearable
pinnacles of bliss, equal to the angels in felicity, and blest beyond all power of words to
say--such and so are the lovers of God.

* * *

The soul has six wings: love, obedience, humility, simplicity, perseverance, and courage. With
these she can attain God.

We know very well that no man will find God either enclosed, held fast, or demonstrated within
a circle of dogmatic words; but every man can find, in his own soul, an exquisite and incomparable
instrument of communication with God. To establish the working of this communication is the
whole object and meaning of life in this world--this world of material, finite, and physical
things, in which the human body is at once a means and a debt.

The key to progress is a continual dressing of the will and mind and heart towards God, best
brought about by continually filling the heart and mind with beautiful, grateful, and loving
thoughts of Him. At all stages of progress the thoughts persistently fly away to other things
in the near and visible world, and we have need quietly and perpetually to pick them up and
re-centre them on Him. With the mind turned in this way, steadily towards God, we are in that
state known to science as polarisation: we are in that condition in which common iron becomes
a magnet. It is so that God transforms us into a diminutive part-likeness of Himself.

When at last the soul reaches union with Him, she is for a while so caressed, so held in a
perpetual contact and nearness, that we may think ourselves already permanently entered into
Paradise! But this is not the plan; and, our education being exceedingly incomplete, we return
to our schooling.

We commence to experience profound and even terrible longings to leave the world and all creatures,
for we cannot bear either the sight or the sound of them, and seek all day long to be alone
with the Beloved God. To conquer this last selfishness and weakness of the soul, we must go
again--as in the beginning--to Jesus. He teaches us to go to and fro willingly, gladly, from
the highest to the lowest. To pick up our daily life and duties, our obligations to a physical
world, in all humility, sweet reasonableness, and submission. He teaches us to willingly accept
incessant interruptions, and with smiling face and perfect inward smoothness to descend from
a high contemplation of God (and only those who know high contemplation can judge of the immensity
of what I say) to listen and attend to some most trivial want of a fellow-creature! Reader,
it is the hardest thing of all. No sooner have we learnt the hard and difficult way of ascent
than we must willingly come down it, even remain altogether in the valley below, and that with
a smiling face and, if possible, no thought of impatience! This is the true sacrifice of the
soul. Now, the sacrifices of the creature are the giving up of the near and visible joys and
prides of the world to follow Christ, and are not real but seeming sacrifices, for, if done
heartily and with courage, an exchange between these joys and the joys of the invisible is
rapidly effected, and there remains no sacrifice, but "the hidden treasure" is ours! But the
sacrifice of the soul is real and long; for having at last re-found God, she must resign her
full joy of Him till the death of the body--and this willingly, thankfully, without complaint,
not asking favours but pouring up her gratitude. In joy or in pain, in happiness or in tribulation--gratitude!
gratitude!--and this not by her own strength but by strength of the Holy Ghost.

* * *

