A GENTLEMAN VAGABOND AND SOME OTHERS

BY

F. HOPKINSON SMITH

NEW YORK GROSSET & DUNLAP PUBLISHERS

1895

INTRODUCTORY NOTE

There are gentlemen vagabonds and vagabond gentlemen. Here and there one finds a vagabond pure
and simple, and once in a lifetime one meets a gentleman simple and pure.

Without premeditated intent or mental bias, I have unconsciously to myself selected some one
of these several types,--entangling them in the threads of the stories between these covers.

Each of my readers can group them to suit his own experience.

F.H.S. NEW YORK, 150 E. 34TH ST.

CONTENTS

                                   PAGE
A GENTLEMAN VAGABOND                  1
A KNIGHT OF THE LEGION OF HONOR      36
JOHN SANDERS, LABORER                67
BÄADER                               82
THE LADY OF LUCERNE                 102
JONATHAN                            126
ALONG THE BRONX                     141
ANOTHER DOG                         147
BROCKWAY'S HULK                     160

A GENTLEMAN VAGABOND

I

I found the major standing in front of Delmonico's, interviewing a large, bare-headed personage
in brown cloth spotted with brass buttons. The major was in search of his very particular friend,
Mr. John Hardy of Madison Square, and the personage in brown and brass was rather languidly
indicating, by a limp and indecisive forefinger, a route through a section of the city which,
correctly followed, would have landed the major in the East River.

I knew him by the peculiar slant of his slouch hat, the rosy glow of his face, and the way
in which his trousers clung to the curves of his well-developed legs, and ended in a sprawl
that half covered his shoes. I recognized, too, a carpet-bag, a ninety-nine-cent affair, an
"occasion," with galvanized iron clasps and paper-leather sides,--the kind opened with your thumb.

The major--or, to be more definite, Major Tom Slocomb of Pocomoke--was from one of the lower
counties of the Chesapeake. He was supposed to own, as a gift from his dead wife, all that
remained unmortgaged of a vast colonial estate on Crab Island in the bay, consisting of several
thousand acres of land and water,--mostly water,--a manor house, once painted white, and a
number of outbuildings in various stages of dilapidation and decay.

In his early penniless life he had migrated from his more northern native State, settled in
the county, and, shortly after his arrival, had married the relict of the late lamented Major
John Talbot of Pocomoke. This had been greatly to the surprise of many eminent Pocomokians,
who boasted of the purity and antiquity of the Talbot blood, and who could not look on in silence,
and see it degraded and diluted by an alliance with a "harf strainer or worse." As one possible
Talbot heir put it, "a picayune, low-down corncracker, suh, without blood or breedin'."

The objections were well taken. So far as the ancestry of the Slocomb family was concerned,
it was a trifle indefinite. It really could not be traced back farther than the day of the
major's arrival at Pocomoke, notwithstanding the major's several claims that his ancestors
came over in the Mayflower, that his grandfather fought with General Washington, and that his
own early life had been spent on the James River. These statements, to thoughtful Pocomokians,
seemed so conflicting and improbable, that his neighbors and acquaintances ascribed them either
to that total disregard for salient facts which characterized the major's speech, or to the
vagaries of that rich and vivid imagination which had made his conquest of the widow so easy
and complete.

Gradually, however, through the influence of his wife, and because of his own unruffled good-humor,
the antipathy had worn away. As years sped on, no one, except the proudest and loftiest Pocomokian,
would have cared to trace the Slocomb blood farther back than its graft upon the Talbot tree.
Neither would the major. In fact, the brief honeymoon of five years left so profound an impression
upon his after life, that, to use his own words, his birth and marriage had occurred at the
identical moment,--he had never lived until then.

There was no question in the minds of his neighbors as to whether the major maintained his
new social position on Crab Island with more than ordinary liberality. Like all new vigorous
grafts on an old stock, he not only blossomed out with extraordinary richness, but sucked the
sap of the primeval family tree quite dry in the process. In fact, it was universally admitted
that could the constant drain of his hospitality have been brought clearly to the attention
of the original proprietor of the estate, its draft-power would have raised that distinguished
military gentleman out of his grave. "My dear friends," Major Slocomb would say, when, after
his wife's death, some new extravagance was commented upon, "I felt I owed the additional slight
expenditure to the memory of that queen among women, suh--Major Talbot's widow."

He had espoused, too, with all the ardor of the new settler, the several articles of political
faith of his neighbors,--loyalty to the State, belief in the justice and humanity of slavery
and the omnipotent rights of man,--white, of course,--and he had, strange to say, fallen into
the peculiar pronunciation of his Southern friends, dropping his final g's, and slurring his
r's, thus acquiring that soft cadence of speech which makes their dialect so delicious.

As to his title of "Major," no one in or out of the county could tell where it originated.
He had belonged to no company of militia, neither had he won his laurels on either side during
the war; nor yet had the shifting politics of his State ever honored him with a staff appointment
of like grade. When pressed, he would tell you confidentially that he had really inherited
the title from his wife, whose first husband, as was well known, had earned and borne that
military distinction; adding tenderly, that she had been so long accustomed to the honor that
he had continued it after her death simply out of respect to her memory.

But the major was still interviewing Delmonico's flunky, oblivious of everything but the purpose
in view, when I touched his shoulder, and extended my hand.

"God bless me! Not you? Well, by gravy! Here, now, colonel, you can tell me where Jack Hardy
lives. I've been for half an hour walkin' round this garden lookin' for him. I lost the letter
with the number in it, so I came over here to Delmonico's--Jack dines here often, I know, 'cause
he told me so. I was at his quarters once myself, but 't was in the night. I am completely
bamboozled. Left home yesterday--brought up a couple of thoroughbred dogs that the owner wouldn't
trust with anybody but me, and then, too, I wanted to see Jack."

I am not a colonel, of course, but promotions are easy with the major.

"Certainly; Jack lives right opposite. Give me your bag."

He refused, and rattled on, upbraiding me for not coming down to Crab Island last spring with
the "boys" when the ducks were flying, punctuating his remarks here and there with his delight
at seeing me looking so well, his joy at being near enough to Jack to shake the dear fellow
by the hand, and the inexpressible ecstasy of being once more in New York, the centre of fashion
and wealth, "with mo' comfo't to the square inch than any other spot on this terrestrial ball."

The "boys" referred to were members of a certain "Ducking Club" situated within rifle-shot
of the major's house on the island, of which club Jack Hardy was president. They all delighted
in the major's society, really loving him for many qualities known only to his intimates.

Hardy, I knew, was not at home. This, however, never prevented his colored servant, Jefferson,
from being always ready at a moment's notice to welcome the unexpected friend. In another instant
I had rung Hardy's bell,--third on right,--and Jefferson, in faultless evening attire, was
carrying the major's "carpet-bag" to the suite of apartments on the third floor front.

Jefferson needs a word of comment. Although born and bred a slave, he is the product of a newer
and higher civilization. There is hardly a trace of the old South left in him,--hardly a mark
of the pit of slavery from which he was digged. His speech is as faultless as his dress. He
is clean, close-shaven, immaculate, well-groomed, silent,--reminding me always of a mahogany-colored
Greek professor, even to his eye-glasses. He keeps his rooms in admirable order, and his household
accounts with absolute accuracy; never spilled a drop of claret, mixed a warm cocktail, or
served a cold plate in his life; is devoted to Hardy, and so punctiliously polite to his master's
friends and guests that it is a pleasure to have him serve you.

Strange to say, this punctilious politeness had never extended to the major, and since an occurrence
connected with this very bag, to be related shortly, it had ceased altogether. Whether it was
that Jefferson had always seen through the peculiar varnish that made bright the major's veneer,
or whether in an unguarded moment, on a previous visit, the major gave way to some such outburst
as he would have inflicted upon the domestics of his own establishment, forgetting for the
time the superior position to which Jefferson's breeding and education entitled him, I cannot
say, but certain it is that while to all outward appearances Jefferson served the major with
every indication of attention and humility, I could see under it all a quiet reserve which
marked the line of unqualified disapproval. This was evident even in the way he carried the
major's bag,--holding it out by the straps, not as became the handling of a receptacle containing
a gentleman's wardrobe, but by the neck, so to speak,--as a dog to be dropped in the gutter.

It was this bag, or rather its contents, or to be more exact its lack of contents, that dulled
the fine edge of Jefferson's politeness. He unpacked it, of course, with the same perfunctory
care that he would have bestowed on the contents of a Bond Street Gladstone, indulging in a
prolonged chuckle when he found no trace of a most important part of a gentleman's wardrobe,--none
of any pattern. It was, therefore, with a certain grim humor that, when he showed the major
to his room the night of his arrival, he led gradually up to a question which the unpacking
a few hours before had rendered inevitable.

"Mr. Hardy's orders are that I should inform every gentleman when he retires that there's plenty
of whiskey and cigars on the sideboard, and that"--here Jefferson glanced at the bag--"and
that if any gentleman came unprepared there was a night shirt and a pair of pajams in the closet."

"I never wore one of 'em in my life, Jefferson; but you can put the whiskey and the cigars
on the chair by my bed, in case I wake in the night."

When Jefferson, in answer to my inquiries as to how the major had passed the night, related
this incident to me the following morning, I could detect, under all his deference and respect
toward his master's guest, a certain manner and air plainly implying that, so far as the major
and himself were concerned, every other but the most diplomatic of relations had been suspended.

The major, by this time, was in full possession of my friend's home. The only change in his
dress was in the appearance of his shoes, polished by Jefferson to a point verging on patent
leather, and the adoption of a black alpaca coat, which, although it wrinkled at the seams
with a certain home-made air, still fitted his fat shoulders very well. To this were added
a fresh shirt and collar, a white tie, nankeen vest, and the same tight-fitting, splay-footed
trousers, enriched by a crease of Jefferson's own making.

As he lay sprawled out on Hardy's divan, with his round, rosy, clean-shaven face, good-humored
mouth, and white teeth, the whole enlivened by a pair of twinkling eyes, you forgot for the
moment that he was not really the sole owner of the establishment. Further intercourse thoroughly
convinced you of a similar lapse of memory on the major's part.

"My dear colonel, let me welcome you to my New York home!" he exclaimed, without rising from
the divan. "Draw up a chair; have a mouthful of mocha? Jefferson makes it delicious. Or shall
I call him to broil another po'ter-house steak? No? Then let me ring for some cigars," and
he touched the bell.

To lie on a divan, reach out one arm, and, with the expenditure of less energy than would open
a match-box, to press a button summoning an attendant with all the unlimited comforts of life,--juleps,
cigars, coffee, cocktails, morning papers, fans, matches out of arm's reach, everything that
soul could covet and heart long for; to see all these several commodities and luxuries develop,
take shape, and materialize while he lay flat on his back,--this to the major was civilization.

"But, colonel, befo' you sit down, fling yo' eye over that garden in the square. Nature in
her springtime, suh!"

I agreed with the major, and was about to take in the view over the treetops, when he tucked
another cushion under his head, elongated his left leg until it reached the window-sill, thus
completely monopolizing it,-and continued without drawing a breath:--

"And I am so comfo'table here. I had a po'ter-house steak this mornin'--you're sure you won't
have one?" I shook my head. "A po'ter-house steak, suh, that'll haunt my memory for days. We,
of co'se, have at home every variety of fish, plenty of soft-shell crabs, and 'casionally a
canvasback, when Hardy or some of my friends are lucky enough to hit one, but no meat that
is wo'th the cookin'. By the bye, I've come to take Jack home with me; the early strawberries
are in their prime, now. You will join us, of course?"

Before I could reply, Jefferson entered the room, laid a tray of cigars and cigarettes with
a small silver alcohol lamp at my elbow, and, with a certain inquiring and, I thought, slightly
surprised glance at the major's sprawling attitude, noiselessly withdrew. The major must have
caught the expression on Jefferson's face, for he dropped his telescope leg, and straightened
up his back, with the sudden awkward movement of a similarly placed lounger surprised by a
lady in a hotel parlor. The episode seemed to knock the enthusiasm out of him, for after a
moment he exclaimed in rather a subdued tone:--

"Rather remarkable nigger, this servant of Jack's. I s'pose it is the influence of yo' New
York ways, but I am not accustomed to his kind."

I began to defend Jefferson, but he raised both hands in protest.

"Yes, I know--education and thirty dollars a month. All very fine, but give me the old house-servants
of the South--the old Anthonys, and Keziahs, and Rachels. They never went about rigged up like
a stick of black sealing-wax in a suit of black co't-plaster. They were easy-goin' and comfortable.
Yo' interest was their interest; they bore yo' name, looked after yo' children, and could look
after yo' house, too. Now see this nigger of Jack's; he's better dressed than I am, tips round
as solemn on his toes as a marsh-crane, and yet I'll bet a dollar he's as slick and cold-hearted
as a high-water clam. That's what education has done for him.

"You never knew Anthony, my old butler? Well, I want to tell you, he was a servant, as was
a servant. During Mrs. Slocomb's life"--here the major assumed a reminiscent air, pinching
his fat chin with his thumb and forefinger--"we had, of co'se, a lot of niggers; but this man
Anthony! By gravy! when he filled yo' glass with some of the old madeira that had rusted away
in my cellar for half a century,"--here the major now slipped his thumb into the armhole of
his vest,--"it tasted like the nectar of the gods, just from the way Anthony poured it out.

"But you ought to have seen him move round the table when dinner was over! He'd draw himself
up like a drum-major, and throw back the mahogany doors for the ladies to retire, with an air
that was captivatin'." The major was now on his feet--his reminiscent mood was one of his best.
"That's been a good many years ago, colonel, but I can see him now just as plain as if he stood
before me, with his white cotton gloves, white vest, and green coat with brass buttons, standin'
behind Mrs. Slocomb's chair. I can see the old sidebo'd, suh, covered with George III. silver,
heirlooms of a century,"--this with a trance-like movement of his hand across his eyes. "I
can see the great Italian marble mantels suppo'ted on lions' heads, the inlaid floor and wainscotin'."--Here
the major sank upon the divan again, shutting both eyes reverently, as if these memories of
the past were a sort of religion with him.

"And the way those niggers loved us! And the many holes they helped us out of. Sit down there,
and let me tell you what Anthony did for me once." I obeyed cheerfully. "Some years ago I received
a telegram from a very intimate friend of mine, a distinguished Baltimorean,--the Nestor of
the Maryland bar, suh,--informin' me that he was on his way South, and that he would make my
house his home on the followin' night." The major's eyes were still shut. He had passed out
of his reverential mood, but the effort to be absolutely exact demanded concentration.

"I immediately called up Anthony, and told him that Judge Spofford of the Supreme Co't of Maryland
would arrive the next day, and that I wanted the best dinner that could be served in the county,
and the best bottle of wine in my cellar." The facts having been correctly stated, the major
assumed his normal facial expression and opened his eyes.

"What I'm tellin' you occurred after the war, remember, when putty near everybody down our
way was busted. Most of our niggers had run away,--all 'cept our old house-servants, who never
forgot our family pride and our noble struggle to keep up appearances. Well, suh, when Spofford
arrived Anthony carried his bag to his room, and when dinner was announced, if it was my own
table, I must say that it cert'ly did fa'rly groan with the delicacies of the season. After
the crabs had been taken off,--we were alone, Mrs. Slocomb havin' gone to Baltimo',--I said
to the judge: 'Yo' Honor, I am now about to delight yo' palate with the very best bottle of
old madeira that ever passed yo' lips. A wine that will warm yo' heart, and unbutton the top
button of yo' vest. It is part of a special importation presented to Mrs. Slocomb's father
by the captain of one of his ships.--Anthony, go down into the wine-cellar, the inner cellar,
Anthony, and bring me a bottle of that old madeira of '37--stop, Anthony; make it '39. I think,
judge, it is a little dryer.' Well, Anthony bowed, and left the room, and in a few moments
he came back, set a lighted candle on the mantel, and, leanin' over my chair, said in a loud
whisper: 'De cellar am locked, suh, and I'm 'feard Mis' Slocomb dun tuk de key.'

"'Well, s'pose she has,' I said; 'put yo' knee against it, and fo'ce the do'.' I knew my man,
suh. Anthony never moved a muscle.

"Here the judge called out, 'Why, major, I couldn't think of'--

"'Now, yo' Honor,' said I, 'please don't say a word. This is my affair. The lock is not of
the slightest consequence.'

"In a few minutes back comes Anthony, solemn as an owl. 'Major,' said he, 'I done did all I
c'u'd, an' dere ain't no way 'cept breakin' down de do'. Las' time I done dat, Mis' Slocomb
neber forgib me fer a week.'

"The judge jumped up. 'Major, I won't have you breakin' yo' locks and annoyin' Mrs. Slocomb.'

"'Yo' Honor,' I said, 'please take yo' seat. I'm d----d if you shan't taste that wine, if I
have to blow out the cellar walls.'

"'I tell you, major,' replied the judge in a very emphatic tone and with some slight anger
I thought, 'I ought not to drink yo' high-flavored madeira; my doctor told me only last week
I must stop that kind of thing. If yo' servant will go upstairs and get a bottle of whiskey
out of my bag, it's just what I ought to drink.'

"Now I want to tell you, colonel, that at that time I hadn't had a bottle of any kind of wine
in my cellar for five years." Here the major closed one eye, and laid his forefinger against
his nose.

"'Of co'se, yo' Honor,' I said, 'when you put it on a matter of yo' health I am helpless; that
paralyzes my hospitality; I have not a word to say. Anthony, go upstairs and get the bottle.'
And we drank the judge's whiskey! Now see the devotion and loyalty of that old negro servant,
see his shrewdness! Do you think this marsh-crane of Jack's"--

Here Jefferson threw open the door, ushering in half a dozen gentlemen, and among them the
rightful host, just returned after a week's absence,--cutting off the major's outburst, and
producing another equally explosive:--

"Why, Jack!"

Before the two men grasp hands I must, in all justice to the major, say that he not only had
a sincere admiration for Jack's surroundings, but also for Jack himself, and that while he
had not the slightest compunction in sharing or, for that matter, monopolizing his hospitality,
he would have been equally generous in return had it been possible for him to revive the old
days, and to afford a menage equally lavish.

It is needless for me to make a like statement for Jack. One half the major's age, trained
to practical business life from boyhood, frank, spontaneous, every inch a man, kindly natured,
and, for one so young, a deep student, of men as well as of books, it was not to be wondered
at that not only the major but that every one else who knew him loved him. The major really
interested him enormously. He represented a type which was new to him, and which it delighted
him to study. The major's heartiness, his magnificent disregard for meum and tuum, his unique
and picturesque mendacity, his grandiloquent manners at times, studied, as he knew, from some
example of the old regime, whom he either consciously or unconsciously imitated, his peculiar
devotion to the memory of his late wife,--all appealed to Jack's sense of humor, and to his
enjoyment of anything out of the common. Under all this he saw, too, away down in the major's
heart, beneath these several layers, a substratum of true kindness and tenderness.

This kindness, I know, pleased Jack best of all.

So when the major sprang up in delight, calling out, "Why, Jack!" it was with very genuine,
although quite opposite individual, sympathies, that the two men shook hands. It was beautiful,
too, to see the major welcome Jack to his own apartments, dragging up the most comfortable
chair in the room, forcing him into it, and tucking a cushion under his head, or ringing up
Jefferson every few moments for some new luxury. These he would catch away from that perfectly
trained servant's tray, serving them himself, rattling on all the time as to how sorry he was
that he did not know the exact hour at which Jack would arrive, that he might have had breakfast
on the table--how hot had it been on the road--how well he was looking, etc.

It was specially interesting, besides, after the proper introductions had been made, to note
the way in which Jack's friends, inoculated with the contagion of the major's mood, and carried
away by his breezy, buoyant enthusiasm, encouraged the major to flow on, interjecting little
asides about his horses and farm stock, agreeing to a man that the two-year old colt--a pure
creation on the moment of the major--would certainly beat the record and make the major's fortune,
and inquiring with great solicitude whether the major felt quite sure that the addition to
the stables which he contemplated would be large enough to accommodate his stud, with other
similar inquiries which, while indefinite and tentative, were, so to speak, but flies thrown
out on the stream of talk,--the major rising continuously, seizing the bait, and rushing headlong
over sunken rocks and through tangled weeds of the improbable in a way that would have done
credit to a Munchausen of older date. As for Jack, he let him run on. One plank in the platform
of his hospitality was to give every guest a free rein.

Before the men separated for the day, the major had invited each individual person to make
Crab Island his home for the balance of his life, regretting that no woman now graced his table
since Mrs. Slocomb's death,--"Major Talbot's widow--Major John Talbot of Pocomoke, suh," this
impressively and with sudden gravity of tone,--placing his stables, his cellar, and his servants
at their disposal, and arranging for everybody to meet everybody else the following day in
Baltimore, the major starting that night, and Jack and his friends the next day. The whole
party would then take passage on board one of the Chesapeake Bay boats, arriving off Crab Island
at daylight the succeeding morning.

This was said with a spring and joyousness of manner, and a certain quickness of movement,
that would surprise those unfamiliar with some of the peculiarities of Widow Talbot's second
husband. For with that true spirit of vagabondage which saturated him, next to the exquisite
luxury of lying sprawled on a lounge with a noiseless servant attached to the other end of
an electric wire, nothing delighted the major so much as an outing, and no member of any such
junketing party, be it said, was more popular every hour of the journey. He could be host,
servant, cook, chambermaid, errand-boy, and grand seigneur again in the same hour, adapting
himself to every emergency that arose. His good-humor was perennial, unceasing, one constant
flow, and never checked. He took care of the dogs, unpacked the bags, laid out everybody's
linen, saw that the sheets were dry, received all callers so that the boys might sleep in the
afternoon, did all the disagreeable and uncomfortable things himself, and let everybody else
have all the fun. He did all this unconsciously, graciously, and simply because he could not
help it. When the outing ended, you parted from him with all the regret that you would from
some chum of your college days. As for him, he never wanted it to end. There was no office,
nor law case, nor sick patient, nor ugly partner, nor complication of any kind, commercial,
social, or professional, which could affect the major. For him life was one prolonged drift:
so long as the last man remained he could stay. When he left, if there was enough in the larder
to last over, the major always made another day of it.

II

The major was standing on the steamboat wharf in Baltimore, nervously consulting his watch,
when Jack and I stepped from a cab next day.

"Well, by gravy! is this all? Where are the other gentlemen?"

"They'll be down in the morning, major," said Jack. "Where shall we send this baggage?"

"Here, just give it to me! Po'ter, po'ter!" in a stentorian voice. "Take these bags and guns,
and put 'em on the upper deck alongside of my luggage. Now, gentlemen, just a sip of somethin'
befo' they haul the gang-plank,--we've six minutes yet."

The bar was across the street. On the way over, the major confided to Jack full information
regarding the state-rooms, remarking that he had selected the "fo' best on the upper deck,"
and adding that he would have paid for them himself only a friend had disappointed him.

It was evident that the barkeeper knew his peculiarities, for a tall, black bottle with a wabbly
cork--consisting of a porcelain marble confined in a miniature bird-cage--was passed to the
major before he had opened his mouth. When he did open it--the mouth--there was no audible
protest as regards the selection. When he closed it again the flow line had fallen some three
fingers. It is, however, fair to the major to say that only one third of this amount was tucked
away under his own waistcoat.

The trip down the bay was particularly enjoyable, brightened outside on the water by the most
brilliant of sunsets, the afternoon sky a glory of purple and gold, and made gay and delightful
inside the after-cabin by the charm of the major's talk,--the whole passenger-list entranced
as he skipped from politics and the fine arts to literature, tarrying a moment in his flight
to discuss a yellow-backed book that had just been published, and coming to a full stop with
the remark:--

"And you haven't read that book, Jack,--that scurrilous attack on the industries of the South?
My dear fellow! I'm astounded that a man of yo' gifts should not--Here--just do me the favor
to look through my baggage on the upper deck, and bring me a couple of books lyin' on top of
my dressin'-case."

"Which trunk, major?" asked Jack, a slight smile playing around his mouth.

"Why, my sole-leather trunk, of co'se; or perhaps that English hat-box--no, stop, Jack, come
to think, it is in the small valise. Here, take my keys," said the major, straightening his
back, squeezing his fat hand into the pocket of his skin-tight trousers, and fishing up with
his fore-finger a small bunch of keys. "Right on top, Jack; you can't miss it."

"Isn't he just too lovely for anything?" said Jack to me, when we reached the upper deck,--I
had followed him out. "He's wearing now the only decent suit of clothes he owns, and the rest
of his wardrobe you could stuff into a bandbox. English sole-leather trunk! Here, put your
thumb on that catch," and he drew out the major's bag,--the one, of course, that Jefferson
unpacked, with the galvanized-iron clasps and paper-leather sides.

The bag seemed more rotund, and heavier, and more important looking than when I handled it
that afternoon in front of Delmonico's, presenting a well-fed, even a bloated, appearance.
The clasps, too, appeared to have all they could do to keep its mouth shut, while the hinges
bulged in an ominous way.

I started one clasp, the other gave way with a burst, and the next instant, to my horror, the
major's wardrobe littered the deck. First the books, then a package of tobacco, then the one
shirt, porcelain-finished collars, and the other necessaries, including a pair of slippers
and a comb. Next, three bundles loosely wrapped, one containing two wax dolls, the others some
small toys, and a cheap Noah's ark, and last of all, wrapped up in coarse, yellow butcher's
paper, stained and moist, a freshly cut porter-house steak.

Jack roared with laughter as he replaced the contents. "Yes; toys for the little children--he
never goes back without something for them if it takes his last dollar; tobacco for his old
cook, Rachel; not a thing for himself, you see--and this steak! Who do you suppose he bought
that for?"

"Did you find it?" called out the major, as we reëntered the cabin.

"Yes; but it wasn't in the English trunk," said Jack, handing back the keys, grave as a judge,
not a smile on his face.

"Of co'se not; didn't I tell you it was in the small bag? Now, gentlemen, listen!" turning
the leaves. "Here is a man who has the impertinence to say that our industries are paralyzed.
It is not our industries; it is our people. Robbed of their patrimony, their fields laid waste,
their estates confiscated by a system of foreclosure lackin' every vestige of decency and co'tesy,--Shylocks
wantin' their pound of flesh on the very hour and day,--why shouldn't they be paralyzed?" He
laughed heartily. "Jack, you know Colonel Dorsey Kent, don't you?"

Jack did not, but the owners of several names on the passenger-list did, and hitched their
camp-stools closer.

"Well, Kent was the only man I ever knew who ever held out against the damnable oligarchy."

Here an old fellow in a butternut suit, with a half-moon of white whiskers tied under his chin,
leaned forward in rapt attention.

The major braced himself, and continued: "Kent, gentlemen, as many of you know, lived with
his maiden sister over on Tinker Neck, on the same piece of ground where he was bo'n. She had
a life interest in the house and property, and it was so nominated in the bond. Well, when
it got down to hog and hominy, and very little of that, she told Kent she was goin' to let
the place to a strawberry-planter from Philadelphia, and go to Baltimo' to teach school. She
was sorry to break up the home, but there was nothin' else to do. Well, it hurt Kent to think
she had to leave home and work for her living, for he was a very tender-hearted man.

"'You don't say so, Jane,' said he, 'and you raised here! Isn't that very sudden?' She told
him it was, and asked him what he was going to do for a home when the place was rented?

"'Me, Jane? I shan't do anythin'. I shall stay here. If your money affairs are so badly mixed
up that you're obliged to leave yo' home, I am very deeply grieved, but I am powerless to help.
I am not responsible for the way this war ended. I was born here, and here I am going to stay."
And he did. Nothing could move him. She finally had to rent him with the house,--he to have
three meals a day, and a room over the kitchen.

"For two years after that Kent was so disgusted with life, and the turn of events, that he
used to lie out on a rawhide, under a big sycamore tree in front of the po'ch, and get a farm
nigger to pull him round into the shade by the tail of the hide, till the grass was wore as
bare as yo' hand. Then he got a bias-cut rockin'-chair, and rocked himself round.

"The strawberry man said, of co'se, that he was too lazy to live. But I look deeper than that.
To me, gentlemen, it was a crushin', silent protest against the money power of our times. And
it never broke his spirit, neither. Why, when the census man came down a year befo' the colonel's
death, he found him sittin' in his rockin'-chair, bare-headed. Without havin' the decency to
take off his own hat, or even ask Kent's permission to speak to him, the census man began askin'
questions,--all kinds, as those damnable fellows do. Colonel Kent let him ramble on for a while,
then he brought him up standin'.

"'Who did you say you were, suh?'

"'The United States census-taker.'

"'Ah, a message from the enemy. Take a seat on the grass.'

"'It's only a matter of form,' said the man.

"'So I presume, and very bad form, suh,' looking at the hat still on the man's head. 'But go on.'

"'Well, what's yo' business?' asked the agent, taking out his book and pencil.

"'My business, suh?' said the colonel, risin' from his chair, mad clear through,--'I've no
business, suh. I am a prisoner of war waitin' to be exchanged!' and he stomped into the house."

Here the major burst into a laugh, straightened himself up to his full height, squeezed the
keys back into his pocket, and said he must take a look into the state-rooms on the deck to
see if they were all ready for his friends for the night.

When I turned in for the night, he was on deck again, still talking, his hearty laugh ringing
out every few moments. Only the white-whiskered man was left. The other camp-stools were empty.

II

At early dawn the steamboat slowed down, and a scow, manned by two bare-footed negroes with
sweep oars, rounded to. In a few moments the major, two guns, two valises, Jack, and I were
safely landed on its wet bottom, the major's bag with its precious contents stowed between
his knees.

To the left, a mile or more away, lay Crab Island, the landed estate of our host,--a delicate,
green thread on the horizon line, broken by two knots, one evidently a large house with chimneys,
and the other a clump of trees. The larger knot proved to be the manor house that sheltered
the belongings of the major, with the wine-cellars of marvelous vintage, the table that groaned,
the folding mahogany doors that swung back for bevies of beauties, and perhaps, for all I knew,
the gray-haired, ebony butler in the green coat. The smaller knot, Jack said, screened from
public view the little club-house belonging to his friends and himself.

As the sun rose and we neared the shore, there came into view on the near end of the island
the rickety outline of a palsied old dock, clutching with one arm a group of piles anchored
in the marsh grass, and extending the other as if in welcome to the slow-moving scow. We accepted
the invitation, threw a line over a thumb of a pile, and in five minutes were seated in a country
stage. Ten more, and we backed up to an old-fashioned colonial porch, with sloping roof and
dormer windows supported by high white columns. Leaning over the broken railing of the porch
was a half-grown negro boy, hatless and bare-footed; inside the door, looking furtively out,
half concealing her face with her apron, stood an old negro woman, her head bound with a bandana
kerchief, while peeping from behind an outbuilding was a group of children in sun-bonnets and
straw hats,--"the farmer's boys and girls," the major said, waving his hand, as we drove up,
his eyes brightening. Then there was the usual collection of farm-yard fowl, beside two great
hounds, who visited each one of us in turn, their noses rubbing our knees.

If the major, now that he was on his native heath, realized in his own mind any difference
between the Eldorado which his eloquence had conjured up in my own mind, the morning before
in Jack's room, and the hard, cold facts before us, he gave no outward sign. To all appearances,
judging from his perfect ease and good temper, the paint-scaled pillars were the finest of
Carrara marble, the bare floors were carpeted with the softest fabrics of Turkish looms, and
the big, sparsely furnished rooms were so many salons, where princes trod in pride, and fair
ladies stepped a measure.

The only remark he made was in answer to a look of surprise on my face when I peered curiously
into the bare hall and made a cursory mental inventory of its contents.

"Yes, colonel; you will find, I regret to say, some slight changes since the old days. Then,
too, my home is in slight confusion owin' to the spring cleanin', and a good many things have
been put away."

I looked to Jack for explanation, but if that thoroughbred knew where the major had permanently
put the last batch of his furniture, he, too, gave no outward sign.

As for the servants, were there not old Rachel and Sam, chef and valet? What more could one
want? The major's voice, too, had lost none of its persuasive powers.

"Here, Sam, you black imp, carry yo' Marster Jack's gun and things to my room, and, Rachel,
take the colonel's bag to the sea-room, next to the dinin'-hall. Breakfast in an hour, gentlemen,
as Mrs. Slocomb used to say."

