The tale is well known. Hale crossed over from Norwalk to Huntington Cove on Long Island. In
the disguise of a schoolmaster, he penetrated the British lines and the city, made accurate
drawings of the fortifications, and memoranda in Latin of all that he observed, which he concealed
between the soles of his shoes, and returned to the point on the shore where he had first landed.
He expected to be met by a boat and to cross the Sound to Norwalk the next morning. The next
morning he was captured, no doubt by Tory treachery, and taken to Howe's headquarters, the
mansion of James Beekman, situated at (the present) Fiftieth Street and First Avenue. That
was on the 21st of September. Without trial and upon the evidence found on his person, Howe
condemned him to be hanged as a spy early next morning. Indeed Hale made no attempt at defense.
He frankly owned his mission, and expressed regret that he could not serve his country better.
His open, manly bearing and high spirit commanded the respect of his captors. Mercy he did
not expect, and pity was not shown him. The British were irritated by a conflagration which
had that morning laid almost a third of the city in ashes, and which they attributed to incendiary
efforts to deprive them of agreeable winter quarters. Hale was at first locked up in the Beekman
greenhouse. Whether he remained there all night is not known, and the place of his execution
has been disputed; but the best evidence seems to be that it took place on the farm of Colonel
Rutger, on the west side, in the orchard in the vicinity of the present East Broadway and Market
Street, and that he was hanged to the limb of an apple-tree.

It was a lovely Sunday morning, before the break of day, that he was marched to the place of
execution, September 22d. While awaiting the necessary preparations, a courteous young officer
permitted him to sit in his tent. He asked for the presence of a chaplain; the request was
refused. He asked for a Bible; it was denied. But at the solicitation of the young officer
he was furnished with writing materials, and wrote briefly to his mother, his sister, and his
betrothed. When the infamous Cunningham, to whom Howe had delivered him, read what was written,
he was furious at the noble and dauntless spirit shown, and with foul oaths tore the letters
into shreds, saying afterwards "that the rebels should never know that they had a man who could
die with such firmness." As Hale stood upon the fatal ladder, Cunningham taunted him, and tauntingly
demanded his "last dying speech and confession." The hero did not heed the words of the brute,
but, looking calmly upon the spectators, said in a clear voice, "I only regret that I have
but one life to lose for my country." And the ladder was snatched from under him.

My friends, we are not honoring today a lad who appears for a moment in a heroic light, but
one of the most worthy of the citizens of Connecticut, who has by his lofty character long
honored her, wherever patriotism is not a mere name, and where Christian manhood is respected.
We have had many heroes, many youths of promise, and men of note, whose names are our only
great and enduring riches; but no one of them all better illustrated, short as was his career,
the virtues we desire for all our sons. We have long delayed this tribute to his character
and his deeds, but in spite of our neglect his fame has grown year by year, as war and politics
have taught us what is really admirable in a human being; and we are now sure that we are not
erecting a monument to an ephemeral reputation.