Transcriber's Note:

           The original spelling and capitalization of the
         original book published in 1732 have been retained. 

                                 After the catastrophe, many believed they had been completely destroyed
by the enemy.

                                Others, however, such as Stephen of Lusignan, whose work was printed
in Bologna around 1573, felt they had been saved and carried to Cyprus.

                                  The originals of these works no longer exist, but their credibility
became even greater when the Franikis rule grew.

                              

                               WHEREIN

               The various LURES, WILES, and ARTIFICES,
              practised by the Designing and Crafty upon
               the Weak and Unwary, are fully exposed.

              Recommended to the serious Perusal of all
        ADVENTURERS and SHARERS in Bubble-Undertakings, the
           PURSUERS of Pennyworths, and Bargain-Buyers.

              Chiefly collected from some Papers of the
                     Ingenious Mr. JOHN THOMSON,
      scattered between Laurence-Pountney's-Hill and Dover. 

                              I often reminisce about how me and my sister would go down to the
river and watch the red hospital boats bringing in wounded soldiers
to be cared for.

                   Me and my sister would sing "nigger--never
           die, if you want a chicken pie." This was during
           the times when the slaves were freed.
                        

       Mrs. Martha J. Jones interviews about the Civil War days:

My mother
and father lived on a farm, where they had six children.

Buckingham County, Virginia is where I was born.

Later on in my life I moved to Gilmer County, W. Va. My mothers name
was Susan and my fathers name Robert Turner, who was also apart of
the legislature in Wwest Virginia.

Three of my brothers were in the Southern Army. But, one of them died because of a bad fever.
My brother William Wert Turner became a prominent lawyer in Kentucky after he got out of the
army. He later died in New Castle, Kentucky in 1932 and my other brother was shot and killed
in action.

I eventually married Union Army Lieutenant John R. Jones in Gilmer, West Virgina when I was
twenty years old. We later had four children in New Castle, Kentucky. Currently, we have three
living children. A number of years later, we moved to Louisville.
 

She had full control over us and i often doubted whether she was our propertly or we hers. At
her will the whip cracked, or lay harmlessly by the side of the horse, the largest top hummed,
or was silent; She moved us from place to place, and exhibited or hid us at her pleasure.
she was always extremely careful of our health and looks, and her life seemed so entirely devoted to us
and to our advantage. Her habits were the same throughout the day and did not vary at all, that
after watching her for some time i felt myself perfectly acquainted with her.
One day a girl stopped at our stall. "what a splendid doll" she exclaimed after pointing at a
waxen one which was quite beautiful and was prominet in our tribe.
 

On March 20th in Thurles Ireland, Henry Cotton, an ancestor of both the Viscount Loftus and the
Marquess of Ely, came across a monastic seal matrix produced from brass and predating the Revolution.
 

Kenrick getting up and tenderly patting his aged colt with his whip, quoted that,” Why, it would
supply Henderson with jokes for six weeks”. Walter and Kenrick, were completely lifeless as
their equipage had been seen and that one of their schoolmate contemptuously disapproved it. It
was unknown to Walter that Jones was in the train. He flung himself back in his seat to pamper in
along roll of laughter, after an extensive gaze at the pony-chaise. He felt a mean pleasure at
vending the explanation of Kenrick’s horse and carriage at Saint Winifred. Jones’s mind
had an irrelevant malignity as his core characteristic. Kenrick laconically said,”That is
Fuzby”. He was pointing to a trailing village from which hardly any lights were flickering.
Kenrick also quoted that,” and I wish it were buried twenty thousand fathoms under the sea."
The speech may appear to be insolent. But there is nothing to worry on it. A solitary road covered
with mud tracks through Fuzby. In winter the road is both grubby and rutty and in summer it is
filthy and rutty. As such no one can walk through the road on these seasons. Ditches and bogs
block the fields. The field is christened as “The Dreary Swamp”. A view with a shape is
absent and it’s tough to see even a flower. It is harmful to breathe the air as it is filled with
moisture. The only part with perfection is the earth. Kenrick’s father who was a curate of
the village fancied that these were all manageable by a man who had an intense sense of duty.
As such he took his beautiful bride to this village when he got a
house after his marriage. He worked hard and led a better life proving
he was right. Thus Tourtelle
and Peyrible inform us that pepper is an aphrodisiac, while Gesner and Chappel cured an atony
of the virile member that had been around for 3 or 4 years, by repeatedly
soaking that organ in a strong concoction of mustard seed. They
collective again, on June 20, 1861, to perceive and greet a New Hampshire regiment of volunteers,
and companion them to the Music Hall, where Mr. Writer addressed them in a nationalistic language
on their effort for the theatre of struggle.

