'But not for six years,' said Leonard.  'No, Miss May; to show you it is not what you think
in me, I will tell you that I had resolved the last thing to ask Henry's pardon for my share
in this unhappy half-year; but this is the only resource for me or my sisters, and my mind
is made up.'

'O, Leonard, are you not deceiving yourself?  Are the grapes ever so sour, or the nightshade
below so sweet, as when the fox has leapt too short, and is too proud to climb?'

'Nightshade!  Why, pray?'

'My father would tell you; I know he thinks your cousin no safe companion.'

'I know that already, but I can keep out of his way.'

'Then this is the end of it,' said Ethel, feeling only half justified in going so far, 'the
end of all we thought and talked of at Coombe!'

There was a struggle in the boy's face, and she did not know whether she had touched or angered
him.  'I can't help it,' he said, as if he would have recalled his former hardness; but then
softening, 'No, Miss May, why should it be?  A man can do his duty in any state of life.'

'In any state of life where God has placed him; but how when it is his own self-will?'

'There are times when one must judge for one's self.'

'Very well, then, I have done, Leonard.  If you can conscientiously feel that you are acting
for the best, and not to gratify your pride, then I can only say I hope you will be helped
through the course you have chosen.  Good-bye.'

'But--Miss May--though I cannot take your advice--' he hesitated, 'this is not giving me up?'

'Never, while you let me esteem you.'

'Thank you,' he said, brightening, 'that is something to keep my head above water, even if
this place were all you think it.'

'My father thinks,' said Ethel.

'I am engaged now; I cannot go back,' said Leonard.  'Thank you. Miss May.'

'Thank you for listening patiently,' said Ethel.  'Good-bye.'

'And--and,' he added earnestly, following her back to the house, 'you do not think the Coombe
days cancelled?'

'If you mean my hopes of you,' said Ethel, with a swelling heart, 'as long as you do your duty--for--for
the highest reason, they will only take another course, and I will try to think it the right one.'

Ethel had mentally made this interview the test of her regard for Leonard.  She had failed,
and so had her test; her influence had not succeeded, but it had not snapped; the boy, in all
his wilfulness, had been too much for her, and she could no longer condemn and throw him off!

Oh! why will not the rights and wrongs of this world be more clearly divided!

CHAPTER XI

  The stream was deeper than I thought
    When first I ventured here,
  I stood upon its sloping edge
    Without a rising fear.--H. BONAR

It was a comfort to find that the brothers parted on good terms.  The elder was beholden to
the younger for the acquiescence that removed the odium of tyranny from the expulsion, and
when the one great disturbance had silenced the ephemeral dissensions that had kept both minds
in a constant state of irritation, Henry wanted, by kindness and consideration, to prove to
himself and the world that Leonard's real interests were his sole object; and Leonard rejoiced
in being at peace, so long as his pride and resolution were not sacrificed.  He went off as
though his employment had been the unanimous choice of the family, carrying with him his dog,
his rifle, his fishing-rod, his fossils, and all his other possessions, but with the understanding
that his Sundays were to be passed at home, by way of safeguard to his religion and morals,
bespeaking the care and consideration of his senior, as Henry assured himself and Mrs. Pugh,
and tried to persuade his sister and Dr. May.

But Dr. May was more implacable than all the rest.  He called Henry's action the deed of Joseph's
brethren, and viewed the matter as the responsible head of a family; he had a more vivid contemporaneous
knowledge of the Axworthy antecedents, and he had been a witness to Henry's original indignant
repudiation of such a destiny for his brother.  He was in the mood of a man whose charity had
endured long, and refused to condemn, but whose condemnation, when forced from him, was therefore
doubly strong.  The displeasure of a loving charitable man is indeed a grave misfortune.

Never had he known a more selfish and unprincipled measure, deliberately flying in the face
of his parents' known wishes before they had been a year in their graves, exposing his brother
to ruinous temptation with his eyes open.  The lad was destroyed body and soul, as much as
if he had been set down in Satan's own clutches; and if they did not mind what they were about,
he would drag Aubrey after him!  As sure as his name was Dick May, he would sooner have cut
his hand off than have sent the boys to Coombe together, could he have guessed that this was
to be the result.

Such discourses did not tend to make Ethel comfortable.  If she had been silly enough to indulge
in a dream of her influence availing to strengthen Leonard against temptation, she must still
have refrained from exerting it through her wonted medium, since it was her father's express
desire that Aubrey, for his own sake, should be detached from his friend as much as possible.

Aubrey was the greatest present difficulty.  Long before their illness the boys had been the
resource of each other's leisure, and Coombe had made their intimacy a friendship of the warmest
nature. Aubrey was at an age peculiarly dependent on equal companionship, and in the absence
of his brothers, the loss of his daily intercourse with Leonard took away all the zest of life.
Even the volunteer practice lost its charm without the rival with whom he chiefly contended,
yet whose success against others was hotter to him than his own; his other occupations all
wanted partnership, and for the first time in his life he showed weariness and contempt of
his sisters' society and pursuits.  He rushed off on Sunday evenings for a walk with Leonard;
and though Dr. May did not interfere, the daughters saw that the abstinence was an effort of
prudence, and were proportionately disturbed when one day at dinner, in his father's absence,
Aubrey, who had been overlooking his fishing-flies with some reviving interest, refused all
his sisters' proposals for the afternoon, and when they represented that it was not a good
fishing-day, owned that it was not, but that he was going over to consult Leonard Ward about
some gray hackles.

'But you mustn't, Aubrey,' cried Gertrude, aghast.

Aubrey made her a low mocking bow.

'I am sure papa would be very much vexed,' added she, conclusively.

'I believe it was luckless Hal that the mill-wheel tore in your nursery rhymes, eh, Daisy,'
said Aubrey.

'Nursery rhymes, indeed!' returned the offended young lady; 'you know it is a very wicked place,
and papa would be very angry at your going there.'  She looked at Ethel, extremely shocked
at her not having interfered, and disregarding all signs to keep silence.

'Axworthy--worthy of the axe,' said Aubrey, well pleased to retort a little teasing by the
way; 'young Axworthy baiting the trap, and old Axworthy sitting up in his den to grind the
unwary limb from limb!'

'Ethel, why don't you tell him not?' exclaimed Gertrude.

'Because he knows papa's wishes as well as I do,' said Ethel; 'and it is to them that he must
attend, not to you or me.'

Aubrey muttered something about his father having said nothing to him; and Ethel succeeded
in preventing Daisy from resenting this answer. She herself hoped to catch him in private,
but he easily contrived to baffle this attempt, and was soon marching out of Stoneborough in
a state of rampant independence, manhood, and resolute friendship, which nevertheless chose
the way where he was least likely to encounter a little brown brougham.

Otherwise he might have reckoned three and a half miles of ploughed field, soppy lane, and
water meadow, as more than equivalent to five miles of good turnpike road.

Be that as it might, he was extremely glad when, after forcing his way through a sticky clayey
path through a hazel copse, his eye fell on a wide reach of meadow land, the railroad making
a hard line across it at one end, and in the midst, about half a mile off, the river meandering
like a blue ribbon lying loosely across the green flat, the handsome buildings of the Vintry
Mill lying in its embrace.

Aubrey knew the outward aspect of the place, for the foreman at the mill was a frequent patient
of his father's, and he had often waited in the old gig at the cottage door at no great distance;
but he looked with more critical eyes at the home of his friend.

It was a place with much capacity, built, like the Grange, by the monks of the convent, which
had been the germ of the cathedral, and showing the grand old monastic style in the solidity
of its stone barns and storehouses, all arranged around a court, whereof the dwelling-house
occupied one side, the lawn behind it with fine old trees, and sloping down to the water, which
was full of bright ripples after its agitation around the great mill-wheel.  The house was
of more recent date, having been built by a wealthy yeoman of Queen Anne's time, and had long
ranges of square-headed sash windows, surmounted by a pediment, carved with emblems of Ceres
and Bacchus, and a very tall front door, also with a pediment, and with stone stops leading
up to it.  Of the same era appeared to be the great gateway, and the turret above it, containing
a clock, the hands of which pointed to 3.40.

Aubrey had rather it had been four, at which time the office closed. He looked round the court,
which seemed very dean and rather empty--stables, barns, buildings, and dwelling-house not
showing much sign of life, excepting the ceaseless hum and clack of the mill, and the dash
of the water which propelled it.  The windows nearest to him were so large and low, that he
could look in and see that the first two or three belonged to living rooms, and the next two
showed him business fittings, and a back that he took to be Leonard's; but he paused in doubt
how to present himself, and whether this were a welcome moment, and he was very glad to see
in a doorway of the upper story of the mill buildings, the honest floury face of his father's
old patient--the foreman.

Greeting him in the open cordial way common to all Dr. May's children, Aubrey was at once recognized,
and the old man came down a step-ladder in the interior to welcome him, and answer his question
where he should find Mr. Ward.

'He is in the office, sir, there, to the left hand as you go in at the front door, but--' and
he looked up at the clock, 'maybe, you would not mind waiting a bit till it strikes four. 
I don't know whether master might be best pleased at young gentlemen coming to see him in office
hours.'

'Thank you,' said Aubrey.  'I did not mean to be too soon, Hardy, but I did not know how long
the walk would be.'

Perhaps it would have been more true had he said that he had wanted to elude his sisters, but
he was glad to accept a seat on a bundle of sacks tremulous with the motion of the mill, and
to enter into a conversation with the old foreman, one of those good old peasants whose integrity
and skill render them privileged persons, worth their weight in gold long after their bodily
strength has given way.

'Well, Hardy, do you mean to make a thorough good miller of Mr. Ward?'

'Bless you, Master May, he'll never stay here long enough.'

'Why not?'

'No, nor his friends didn't ought to let him stay!' added Hardy.

'Why?' said Aubrey.  'Do you think so badly of your own trade, Hardy?'

But he could not get an answer from the oracle on this head.  Hardy continued, 'He's a nice
young gentleman, but he'll never put up with it.'

'Put up with what?' asked Aubrey, anxiously; but at that instant a carter appeared at the door
with a question for Master Hardy, and Aubrey was left to his own devices, and the hum and clatter
of the mill, till the clock had struck four; and beginning to think that Hardy had forgotten
him, he was about to set out and reconnoitre, when to his great joy Leonard himself came hurrying
up, and heartily shook him by the hand.

'Hardy told me you were here,' he said.  'Well done, old fellow, I didn't think they would
have let you come and see me.'

'The girls did make a great row about it,' said Aubrey, triumphantly, 'but I was not going
to stand any nonsense.'

Leonard looked a little doubtful; then said, 'Well, will you see the place, or come and sit
in my room?  There is the parlour, but we shall not be so quiet there.'

Aubrey decided for Leonard's room, and was taken through the front door into a vestibule paved
with white stone, with black lozenges at the intersections.  'There,' said Leonard, 'the office
is here, you see, and my uncle's rooms beyond, all on the ground floor, he is too infirm to
go up-stairs.  This way is the dining-room, and Sam has got a sitting-room beyond, then there
are the servants' rooms.  It is a great place, and horridly empty.'

Aubrey thought so, as his footsteps echoed up the handsome but ill-kept stone staircase, with
its fanciful balusters half choked with dust, and followed Leonard along a corridor, with deep
windows overlooking the garden and river, and great panelled doors opposite, neither looking
as if they were often either cleaned or opened, and the passage smelling very fusty.

'Pah!' said Aubrey; 'it puts me in mind of the wings of houses in books that get shut up because
somebody has been murdered!  Are you sure it is not haunted, Leonard?'

'Only by the rats,' he answered, laughing; 'they make such an intolerable row, that poor little
Mab is frightened out of her wits, and I don't know whether they would not eat her up if she
did not creep up close to me.  I'm tired of going at them with the poker, and would poison
every man Jack of them if it were not for the fear of her getting the dose by mistake.'

'Is that what Hardy says you will never put up with?' asked Aubrey; but instead of answering,
Leonard turned to one of the great windows, saying,

'There now, would not this be a charming place if it were properly kept?' and Aubrey looked
out at the great cedar, spreading out its straight limbs and flakes of dark foliage over the
sloping lawn, one branch so near the window as to invite adventurous exits, and a little boat
lying moored in the dancing water below.

'Perfect!' said Aubrey.  'What fish there must lie in the mill tail!'

'Ay, I mean to have a try at them some of these days, I should like you to come and help, but
perhaps--Ha, little Mab, do you wonder what I'm after so long?  Here's a friend for you: as
the little dog danced delighted round him, and paid Aubrey her affectionate respects.  Her
delicate drawing-room beauty did not match with the spacious but neglected-looking room whence
she issued.  It had three great uncurtained windows looking into the court, with deep window-seats,
olive-coloured painted walls, the worse for damp and wear, a small amount of old-fashioned
solid furniture, and all Leonard's individual goods, chiefly disposed of in a cupboard in the
wall, but Averil's beautiful water-coloured drawings hung over the chimney.  To Aubrey's petted
home-bred notions it was very bare and dreary, and he could not help exclaiming, 'Well, they
don't lodge you sumptuously!'

'I don't fancy many clerks in her Majesty's dominions have so big and airy an apartment to
boast of,' said Leonard.  'Let's see these flies of yours.'

Their mysteries occupied the boys for some space; but Aubrey returned to the charge.  'What
is it that Hardy says you'll never put up with, Leonard?'

'What did the old fellow say?' asked Leonard, laughing; and as Aubrey repeated the conversation,
ending with the oracular prediction, he laughed again, but said proudly, 'He'll see himself
wrong then.  I'll put up with whatever I've undertaken.'

'But what does he mean?'

'Serving one's apprenticeship, I suppose,' said Leonard; 'they all think me a fine gentleman,
and above the work, I know, though I've never stuck at anything yet.  If I take to the business,
I suppose it is capable of being raised up to me--it need not pull me down to it, eh?'

'There need be no down in the case,' said Aubrey.  'My father always says there is no down
except in meanness and wrong.  But,' as if that mention brought a recollection to his mind,
'what o'clock is it?  I must not stay much longer.'

'I'll walk a bit of the way home with you,' said Leonard, 'but I must be back by five for dinner.
I go to rifle practice two days in the week, and I don't like to miss the others, for Sam's
often out, and the poor old man does not like being left alone at meals.'

The two boys were at the room door, when Aubrey heard a step, felt the fustiness enlivened
by the odour of a cigar, and saw a figure at the top of the stairs.

'I say, Ward,' observed Mr. Sam, in a rude domineering voice, 'Spelman's account must be all
looked over to-night; he says that there is a blunder.  D'ye hear?'

'Very well.'

'Who have you got there?'

'It is Aubrey May.'

'Oh! good morning to you,' making a kind of salutation; 'have you been looking at the water?
We've got some fine fish there, if you like to throw a line any day.--Well, that account must
be done to-night, and if you can't find the error, you'll only have to do it over again.'

Leonard's colour had risen a good deal, but he said nothing, and his cousin ran down-stairs
and drove off in his dog-cart.

'Is it much of a business?' said Aubrey, feeling extremely indignant.

'Look here,' said Leonard, leading the way down-stairs and into the office, where he pointed
to two huge account books.  'Every page in that one must I turn over this blessed night; and
if he had only told me three hours ago, I could have done the chief of it, instead of kicking
my heels all the afternoon.'

'Has he any right to order you about, out of office hours, and without a civil word either?
Why do you stand it?'

'Because I can stand anything better than being returned on Henry's hands,' said Leonard, 'and
he has spite enough for that.  The thing must be done, and if he won't do it, I must, that's
all.  Come along.'

As they went out the unwieldy figure of the elder Mr. Axworthy was seen, leaning out of his
open window, smoking a clay pipe.  He spoke in a much more friendly tone, as he said, 'Going
out, eh?  Mind the dinner-time.'

'Yes, sir,' said Leonard, coming nearer, 'I'm not going far.'

'Who have you got there?' was again asked.

'One of the young Mays, sir.  I was going to walk part of the way back.'

Aubrey thought the grunt not very civil; and as the boys and Mab passed under the gateway,
Leonard continued, 'There's not much love lost between him and your father; he hates the very
name.'

'I should expect he would,' said Aubrey, as if his hatred were an honour.

'I fancy there's some old grievance,' said Leonard, 'where he was wrong of course.  Not that
that need hinder your coming over, Aubrey; I've a right to my own friends, but--'

'And so have I to mine,' said Aubrey eagerly.

'But you see,' added Leonard, 'I wouldn't have you do it--if--if it vexes your sister.  I can
see you every Sunday, you know, and we can have some fun together on Saturdays when the evenings
get longer.'

