Transcriber note: This file is a plain text rendition of HTML. Because many equations cannot
be presented effectively in plain text, images are supplied for many equations and for all
figures and tables.

CONTENTS

Preface

Part I: The Special Theory of Relativity

01. Physical Meaning of Geometrical Propositions 02. The System of Co-ordinates 03. Space and
Time in Classical Mechanics 04. The Galileian System of Co-ordinates 05. The Principle of Relativity
(in the Restricted Sense) 06. The Theorem of the Addition of Velocities employed in Classical
Mechanics 07. The Apparent Incompatability of the Law of Propagation of Light with the Principle
of Relativity 08. On the Idea of Time in Physics 09. The Relativity of Simultaneity 10. On
the Relativity of the Conception of Distance 11. So when the school hours were over, and all ran away, Otto was a moment thoughtfully in its place. He
did not quite know where he could lie in wait for the best benefactors. We do robbers, you
are the leader. "

Otto struggled a bit. "I have to do so this week right," he said.

"Oh, what," she replied, "because a quarter of an hour. Come!"

Otto let himself be carried away, in silence, he left himself a bit on his unknown Friend who would
protect him from punishment.

He found it a pleasure beyond a Such parental care in the backs to have. For the quarter hour
was more than an hour, and Otto would have been lost. He was gasping for classroom back to
himself to his fate to make, and came to the door with such a clatter,
that the teacher immediately from his room into the classroom was.

Otto went away cheerfully. On Friday he was determined not to evacuate the stain until He was in
the clear, for there was for him only the Saturday morning.

Because of course, was always still large order made. In five minutes you're back to the tidying
up. "

The Otto was not quite right, but he had to go. Moreover, he could be back be there. In a few
jumps he was in the rectory.

The pastor was talking with someone yet. But who has the terrible job done without that he had?
He wanted to know at any price.

On Saturday, the school hours had to end at eleven clock. Otto let go all of the children, and
when the classroom was empty, he walked out the door, closed it and refused to with his back
to it. He had yet to see certain, if someone would go in, because then he would rather start
than with the heavy work. He got up and stood - it was no one. He heard the clock strike twelve
half - no one came. In the afternoon, but was a trip before, it should
be eaten early today at noon.

He should, as soon as be possible at home. He had to enter to work, was horrified. He opened
the Tuer - da - Otto pulled even more than before your eyes - really,
it was done all beautiful than ever.

The gasoline it was very strange mood.

Whether there any ghosts in their hands game had? Very quiet, never otherwise, he slipped out the
door. Just at this moment came just as quietly slipped slightly from the teacher's kitchen,
and suddenly stood Wiseli quite close to him. The two drove together
in terror, and the Wiseli was as red as if It caught the gasoline
at a wrong. Now he saw daylight.

"Sure you get that done for me all
week long, Wiseli" he exclaimed. "It does but certainly no one else,
if he does not have to. "

"I have it but did so gladly," Wiseli replied.

"No,
no, you do not have to say Wiseli. Something no one in the world can
love "Do," said Otto convinced

"But - certainly," assured Wiseli,
"I have long been looking forward all the time always in the evening,
if I could do it again, and while I cleaned up, I was certainly all
the time happy because I've always thought: now the Otto and find
everything ready and is happy. " On the other hand, I have purposely
treated the empirical physical foundations of the theory in a "step-motherly" fashion, so that
readers unfamiliar with physics may not feel like the wanderer who was unable to see the forest
for the trees. May the book bring some one a few happy hours of suggestive thought!

December, 1916 A. EINSTEIN

PART I

THE SPECIAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY

PHYSICAL MEANING OF GEOMETRICAL PROPOSITIONS

In your schooldays most of you who read this book made acquaintance with the noble building
of Euclid's geometry, and you remember -- perhaps with more respect than love -- the magnificent
structure, on the lofty staircase of which you were chased about for uncounted hours by conscientious
teachers. By reason of our past experience, you would certainly regard everyone with disdain
who should pronounce even the most out-of-the-way proposition of this science to be untrue.
But perhaps this feeling of proud certainty would leave you immediately if some one were to
ask you: "What, then, do you mean by the assertion that these propositions are true?" Let us
proceed to give this question a little consideration.

Geometry sets out form certain conceptions such as "plane," "point," and "straight line," with
which we are able to associate more or less definite ideas, and from certain simple propositions
(axioms) which, in virtue of these ideas, we are inclined to accept as "true." Then, on the
basis of a logical process, the justification of which we feel ourselves compelled to admit,
all remaining propositions are shown to follow from those axioms, i.e. they are proven. A proposition
is then correct ("true") when it has been derived in the recognised manner from the axioms.
The question of "truth" of the individual geometrical propositions is thus reduced to one of
the "truth" of the axioms. Now it has long been known that the last question is not only unanswerable
by the methods of geometry, but that it is in itself entirely without meaning. We cannot ask
whether it is true that only one straight line goes through two points. We can only say that
Euclidean geometry deals with things called "straight lines," to each of which is ascribed
the property of being uniquely determined by two points situated on it. The concept "true"
does not tally with the assertions of pure geometry, because by the word "true" we are eventually
in the habit of designating always the correspondence with a "real" object; geometry, however,
is not concerned with the relation of the ideas involved in it to objects of experience, but
only with the logical connection of these ideas among themselves.

It is not difficult to understand why, in spite of this, we feel constrained to call the propositions
of geometry "true." Geometrical ideas correspond to more or less exact objects in nature, and
these last are undoubtedly the exclusive cause of the genesis of those ideas. Geometry ought
to refrain from such a course, in order to give to its structure the largest possible logical
unity. The practice, for example, of seeing in a "distance" two marked positions on a practically
rigid body is something which is lodged deeply in our habit of thought. We are accustomed further
to regard three points as being situated on a straight line, if their apparent positions can
be made to coincide for observation with one eye, under suitable choice of our place of observation.

If, in pursuance of our habit of thought, we now supplement the propositions of Euclidean geometry
by the single proposition that two points on a practically rigid body always correspond to
the same distance (line-interval), independently of any changes in position to which we may
subject the body, the propositions of Euclidean geometry then resolve themselves into propositions
on the possible relative position of practically rigid bodies.* Geometry which has been supplemented
in this way is then to be treated as a branch of physics. We can now legitimately ask as to
the "truth" of geometrical propositions interpreted in this way, since we are justified in
asking whether these propositions are satisfied for those real things we have associated with
the geometrical ideas. In less exact terms we can express this by saying that by the "truth"
of a geometrical proposition in this sense we understand its validity for a construction with
rule and compasses.

Of course the conviction of the "truth" of geometrical propositions in this sense is founded
exclusively on rather incomplete experience. For the present we shall assume the "truth" of
the geometrical propositions, then at a later stage (in the general theory of relativity) we
shall see that this "truth" is limited, and we shall consider the extent of its limitation.

  Notes

*) It follows that a natural object is associated also with a straight line. Three points A,
B and C on a rigid body thus lie in a straight line when the points A and C being given, B
is chosen such that the sum of the distances AB and BC is as short as possible. This incomplete
suggestion will suffice for the present purpose.

THE SYSTEM OF CO-ORDINATES

On the basis of the physical interpretation of distance which has been indicated, we are also
in a position to establish the distance between two points on a rigid body by means of measurements.
For this purpose we require a " distance " (rod S) which is to be used once and for all, and
which we employ as a standard measure. If, now, A and B are two points on a rigid body, we
can construct the line joining them according to the rules of geometry ; then, starting from
A, we can mark off the distance S time after time until we reach B. The number of these operations
required is the numerical measure of the distance AB. This is the basis of all measurement
of length. *

Every description of the scene of an event or of the position of an object in space is based
on the specification of the point on a rigid body (body of reference) with which that event
or object coincides. This applies not only to scientific description, but also to everyday
life. If I analyse the place specification " Times Square, New York," **A I arrive at the following
result. The earth is the rigid body to which the specification of place refers; " Times Square,
New York," is a well-defined point, to which a name has been assigned, and with which the event
coincides in space.**B

This primitive method of place specification deals only with places on the surface of rigid
bodies, and is dependent on the existence of points on this surface which are distinguishable
from each other. But we can free ourselves from both of these limitations without altering
the nature of our specification of position. If, for instance, a cloud is hovering over Times
Square, then we can determine its position relative to the surface of the earth by erecting
a pole perpendicularly on the Square, so that it reaches the cloud. The length of the pole
measured with the standard measuring-rod, combined with the specification of the position of
the foot of the pole, supplies us with a complete place specification. On the basis of this
illustration, we are able to see the manner in which a refinement of the conception of position
has been developed.

(a) We imagine the rigid body, to which the place specification is referred, supplemented in
such a manner that the object whose position we require is reached by. the completed rigid body.

(b) In locating the position of the object, we make use of a number (here the length of the
pole measured with the measuring-rod) instead of designated points of reference.

(c) We speak of the height of the cloud even when the pole which reaches the cloud has not
been erected. By means of optical observations of the cloud from different positions on the
ground, and taking into account the properties of the propagation of light, we determine the
length of the pole we should have required in order to reach the cloud.

From this consideration we see that it will be advantageous if, in the description of position,
it should be possible by means of numerical measures to make ourselves independent of the existence
of marked positions (possessing names) on the rigid body of reference. In the physics of measurement
this is attained by the application of the Cartesian system of co-ordinates.

This consists of three plane surfaces perpendicular to each other and rigidly attached to a
rigid body. Referred to a system of co-ordinates, the scene of any event will be determined
(for the main part) by the specification of the lengths of the three perpendiculars or co-ordinates
(x, y, z) which can be dropped from the scene of the event to those three plane surfaces. The
lengths of these three perpendiculars can be determined by a series of manipulations with rigid
measuring-rods performed according to the rules and methods laid down by Euclidean geometry.

In practice, the rigid surfaces which constitute the system of co-ordinates are generally not
available ; furthermore, the magnitudes of the co-ordinates are not actually determined by
constructions with rigid rods, but by indirect means. If the results of physics and astronomy
are to maintain their clearness, the physical meaning of specifications of position must always
be sought in accordance with the above considerations. ***

We thus obtain the following result: Every description of events in space involves the use
of a rigid body to which such events have to be referred. The resulting relationship takes
for granted that the laws of Euclidean geometry hold for "distances;" the "distance" being
represented physically by means of the convention of two marks on a rigid body.

  Notes

* Here we have assumed that there is nothing left over i.e. that the measurement gives a whole
number. This difficulty is got over by the use of divided measuring-rods, the introduction
of which does not demand any fundamentally new method.

**A Einstein used "Potsdamer Platz, Berlin" in the original text. In the authorised translation
this was supplemented with "Tranfalgar Square, London". I must say this to me an indulgent to ensure assessment
of my experiment.

But works of art have a strong impact on me, especially seals and works of Sculpture, rare paintings.
I have been so caused, on appropriate occasions long to stay ahead of them, and wanted to capture
in my own way, that I understand , Which make them act. Where I can not, for example in music, I'm
almost incapable of enjoyment. A rationalistic, or perhaps analytic system is reluctant in my
mind that I be taken and should know not why I'm there, and what takes me.

I'm going to the apparently paradoxical fact become aware that just a few of the greatest and
most overwhelming creations of art remained obscure our understanding are. We admire them,
you feel defeated from them, but you do not have to say what they imagine. I am not well read
enough to know if this has already been noticed , or whether, has not found an aesthetic, such perplexity
of our conceiving mind is even a necessary condition for the highest effects that produce a work
of art should. I might decide it difficult to believe in this condition.

Not that the art connoisseurs and enthusiasts would find no words, if you give us such a Artwork praise.
You have the enough, I would think. But before such a masterpiece of creation the artist says in
general, everyone something different and not what the simple admirer solves the mystery. What
makes us so powerful can pack, in my opinion, but only the intent the artist be it so far succeeded,
they express in the work and we to be identified. I know it to be, not merely understanding
the accounts can, and will be the emotional state, psychological constellation, which the artist,
the driving force gave to creation, caused from us again. But why should the artist's intention take
can not be given in words and be like any other fact of mental life? Maybe that will not succeed
in the great works of art without the use of the analysis. The work itself but must allow for
this analysis if there are effective on the expression of Intentions and emotions of the artist
is. And guess this intention, I must first figure out the meaning and content of the artwork depicted,
so you can interpret it. It is possible that such a work of art requires interpretation, and
that I only after execution of them can find out why I am such a huge impression inferior. I entertain
themselves the hope that this impression will suffer no slowdown, if such an analysis we is successful.

Now
think of the Hamlet, the three hundred year old masterpiece of Shakespeare [2]. I follow the psychoanalytic
literature, and I endorse the claim that only psychoanalysis through
the reduction of the substance on the Oedipus theme the mystery of
the effect this tragedy has dissolved.

But first, what abundance of different, mutually incompatible Interpretation of experiments,
which range from opinions about the character of the hero and the intentions the poet! Shakespeare
has made our participation in a health claim or for an inadequate inferior, or an idealist, who
is only too good for the real world?
 With this and with a second difficulty prevailing
here we shall have to deal in detail later.

  Notes

*) That is, a curve along which the body moves.

THE GALILEIAN SYSTEM OF CO-ORDINATES

As is well known, the fundamental law of the mechanics of Galilei-Newton, which is known as
the law of inertia, can be stated thus: A body removed sufficiently far from other bodies continues
in a state of rest or of uniform motion in a straight line. This law not only says something
about the motion of the bodies, but it also indicates the reference-bodies or systems of coordinates,
permissible in mechanics, which can be used in mechanical description. The visible fixed stars
are bodies for which the law of inertia certainly holds to a high degree of approximation.
Now if we use a system of co-ordinates which is rigidly attached to the earth, then, relative
to this system, every fixed star describes a circle of immense radius in the course of an astronomical
day, a result which is opposed to the statement of the law of inertia. So that if we adhere
to this law we must refer these motions only to systems of coordinates relative to which the
fixed stars do not move in a circle. A system of co-ordinates of which the state of motion
is such that the law of inertia holds relative to it is called a " Galileian system of co-ordinates."
The laws of the mechanics of Galflei-Newton can be regarded as valid only for a Galileian system
of co-ordinates.

THE PRINCIPLE OF RELATIVITY (IN THE RESTRICTED SENSE)

In order to attain the greatest possible clearness, let us return to our example of the railway
carriage supposed to be travelling uniformly. We call its motion a uniform translation ("uniform"
because it is of constant velocity and direction, " translation " because although the carriage
changes its position relative to the embankment yet it does not rotate in so doing). Let us
imagine a raven flying through the air in such a manner that its motion, as observed from the
embankment, is uniform and in a straight line. If we were to observe the flying raven from
the moving railway carriage. we should find that the motion of the raven would be one of different
velocity and direction, but that it would still be uniform and in a straight line. Expressed
in an abstract manner we may say : If a mass m is moving uniformly in a straight line with
respect to a co-ordinate system K, then it will also be moving uniformly and in a straight
line relative to a second co-ordinate system K1 provided that the latter is executing a uniform
translatory motion with respect to K. In accordance with the discussion contained in the preceding
section, it follows that:

If K is a Galileian co-ordinate system. then every other co-ordinate system K' is a Galileian
one, when, in relation to K, it is in a condition of uniform motion of translation. Relative
to K1 the mechanical laws of Galilei-Newton hold good exactly as they do with respect to K.

We advance a step farther in our generalisation when we express the tenet thus: If, relative
to K, K1 is a uniformly moving co-ordinate system devoid of rotation, then natural phenomena
run their course with respect to K1 according to exactly the same general laws as with respect
to K. This statement is called the principle of relativity (in the restricted sense).

As long as one was convinced that all natural phenomena were capable of representation with
the help of classical mechanics, there was no need to doubt the validity of this principle
of relativity. But in view of the more recent development of electrodynamics and optics it
became more and more evident that classical mechanics affords an insufficient foundation for
the physical description of all natural phenomena. At this juncture the question of the validity
of the principle of relativity became ripe for discussion, and it did not appear impossible
that the answer to this question might be in the negative.

Nevertheless, there are two general facts which at the outset speak very much in favour of
the validity of the principle of relativity. Even though classical mechanics does not supply
us with a sufficiently broad basis for the theoretical presentation of all physical phenomena,
still we must grant it a considerable measure of " truth," since it supplies us with the actual
motions of the heavenly bodies with a delicacy of detail little short of wonderful. The principle
of relativity must therefore apply with great accuracy in the domain of mechanics. But that
a principle of such broad generality should hold with such exactness in one domain of phenomena,
and yet should be invalid for another, is a priori not very probable.

We now proceed to the second argument, to which, moreover, we shall return later. If the principle
of relativity (in the restricted sense) does not hold, then the Galileian co-ordinate systems
K, K1, K2, etc., which are moving uniformly relative to each other, will not be equivalent
for the description of natural phenomena. In this case we should be constrained to believe
that natural laws are capable of being formulated in a particularly simple manner, and of course
only on condition that, from amongst all possible Galileian co-ordinate systems, we should
have chosen one (K[0]) of a particular state of motion as our body of reference. We should
then be justified (because of its merits for the description of natural phenomena) in calling
this system " absolutely at rest," and all other Galileian systems K " in motion." If, for
instance, our embankment were the system K[0] then our railway carriage would be a system K,
relative to which less simple laws would hold than with respect to K[0]. This diminished simplicity
would be due to the fact that the carriage K would be in motion (i.e."really")with respect
to K[0]. In the general laws of nature which have been formulated with reference to K, the
magnitude and direction of the velocity of the carriage would necessarily play a part. We should
expect, for instance, that the note emitted by an organpipe placed with its axis parallel to
the direction of travel would be different from that emitted if the axis of the pipe were placed
perpendicular to this direction.

Now in virtue of its motion in an orbit round the sun, our earth is comparable with a railway
carriage travelling with a velocity of about 30 kilometres per second. If the principle of
relativity were not valid we should therefore expect that the direction of motion of the earth
at any moment would enter into the laws of nature, and also that physical systems in their
behaviour would be dependent on the orientation in space with respect to the earth. For owing
to the alteration in direction of the velocity of revolution of the earth in the course of
a year, the earth cannot be at rest relative to the hypothetical system K[0] throughout the
whole year. However, the most careful observations have never revealed such anisotropic properties
in terrestrial physical space, i.e. a physical non-equivalence of different directions. This
is very powerful argument in favour of the principle of relativity.

THE THEOREM OF THE ADDITION OF VELOCITIES EMPLOYED IN CLASSICAL MECHANICS

Let us suppose our old friend the railway carriage to be travelling along the rails with a
constant velocity v, and that a man traverses the length of the carriage in the direction of
travel with a velocity w. How quickly or, in other words, with what velocity W does the man
advance relative to the embankment during the process ? The only possible answer seems to result
from the following consideration: If the man were to stand still for a second, he would advance
relative to the embankment through a distance v equal numerically to the velocity of the carriage.
As a consequence of his walking, however, he traverses an additional distance w relative to
the carriage, and hence also relative to the embankment, in this second, the distance w being
numerically equal to the velocity with which he is walking. Thus in total be covers the distance
W=v+w relative to the embankment in the second considered. We shall see later that this result,
which expresses the theorem of the addition of velocities employed in classical mechanics,
cannot be maintained ; in other words, the law that we have just written down does not hold
in reality. For the time being, however, we shall assume its correctness.

THE APPARENT INCOMPATIBILITY OF THE LAW OF PROPAGATION OF LIGHT WITH THE PRINCIPLE OF RELATIVITY

There is hardly a simpler law in physics than that according to which light is propagated in
empty space. Every child at school knows, or believes he knows, that this propagation takes
place in straight lines with a velocity c= 300,000 km./sec. At all events we know with great
exactness that this velocity is the same for all colours, because if this were not the case,
the minimum of emission would not be observed simultaneously for different colours during the
eclipse of a fixed star by its dark neighbour. By means of similar considerations based on
observa- tions of double stars, the Dutch astronomer De Sitter was also able to show that the
velocity of propagation of light cannot depend on the velocity of motion of the body emitting
the light. The assumption that this velocity of propagation is dependent on the direction "in
space" is in itself improbable.

In short, let us assume that the simple law of the constancy of the velocity of light c (in
vacuum) is justifiably believed by the child at school. Who would imagine that this simple
law has plunged the conscientiously thoughtful physicist into the greatest intellectual difficulties?
Let us consider how these difficulties arise.

Of course we must refer the process of the propagation of light (and indeed every other process)
to a rigid reference-body (co-ordinate system). As such a system let us again choose our embankment.
We shall imagine the air above it to have been removed. If a ray of light be sent along the
embankment, we see from the above that the tip of the ray will be transmitted with the velocity
c relative to the embankment. Now let us suppose that our railway carriage is again travelling
along the railway lines with the velocity v, and that its direction is the same as that of
the ray of light, but its velocity of course much less. Let us inquire about the velocity of
propagation of the ray of light relative to the carriage. It is obvious that we can here apply
the consideration of the previous section, since the ray of light plays the part of the man
walking along relatively to the carriage. The velocity w of the man relative to the embankment
is here replaced by the velocity of light relative to the embankment. w is the required velocity
of light with respect to the carriage, and we have

                               w = c-v.

The velocity of propagation ot a ray of light relative to the carriage thus comes cut smaller
than c.

But this result comes into conflict with the principle of relativity set forth in Section V.
For, like every other general law of nature, the law of the transmission of light in vacuo
[in vacuum] must, according to the principle of relativity, be the same for the railway carriage
as reference-body as when the rails are the body of reference. But, from our above consideration,
this would appear to be impossible. If every ray of light is propagated relative to the embankment
with the velocity c, then for this reason it would appear that another law of propagation of
light must necessarily hold with respect to the carriage -- a result contradictory to the principle
of relativity.

In view of this dilemma there appears to be nothing else for it than to abandon either the
principle of relativity or the simple law of the propagation of light in vacuo. Those of you
who have carefully followed the preceding discussion are almost sure to expect that we should
retain the principle of relativity, which appeals so convincingly to the intellect because
it is so natural and simple. The law of the propagation of light in vacuo would then have to
be replaced by a more complicated law conformable to the principle of relativity. The development
of theoretical physics shows, however, that we cannot pursue this course. The epoch-making
theoretical investigations of H. A. Lorentz on the electrodynamical and optical phenomena connected
with moving bodies show that experience in this domain leads conclusively to a theory of electromagnetic
phenomena, of which the law of the constancy of the velocity of light in vacuo is a necessary
consequence. Prominent theoretical physicists were theref ore more inclined to reject the principle
of relativity, in spite of the fact that no empirical data had been found which were contradictory
to this principle.

At this juncture the theory of relativity entered the arena. As a result of an analysis of
the physical conceptions of time and space, it became evident that in realily there is not
the least incompatibilitiy between the principle of relativity and the law of propagation of
light, and that by systematically holding fast to both these laws a logically rigid theory
could be arrived at. This theory has been called the special theory of relativity to distinguish
it from the extended theory, with which we shall deal later. In the following pages we shall
present the fundamental ideas of the special theory of relativity.

ON THE IDEA OF TIME IN PHYSICS

Lightning has struck the rails on our railway embankment at two places A and B far distant
from each other. I make the additional assertion that these two lightning flashes occurred
simultaneously. If I ask you whether there is sense in this statement, you will answer my question
with a decided "Yes." But if I now approach you with the request to explain to me the sense
of the statement more precisely, you find after some consideration that the answer to this
question is not so easy as it appears at first sight.

After some time perhaps the following answer would occur to you: "The significance of the statement
is clear in itself and needs no further explanation; of course it would require some consideration
if I were to be commissioned to determine by observations whether in the actual case the two
events took place simultaneously or not." I cannot be satisfied with this answer for the following
reason. Supposing that as a result of ingenious considerations an able meteorologist were to
discover that the lightning must always strike the places A and B simultaneously, then we should
be faced with the task of testing whether or not this theoretical result is in accordance with
the reality. We encounter the same difficulty with all physical statements in which the conception
" simultaneous " plays a part. The concept does not exist for the physicist until he has the
possibility of discovering whether or not it is fulfilled in an actual case. We thus require
a definition of simultaneity such that this definition supplies us with the method by means
of which, in the present case, he can decide by experiment whether or not both the lightning
strokes occurred simultaneously. As long as this requirement is not satisfied, I allow myself
to be deceived as a physicist (and of course the same applies if I am not a physicist), when
I imagine that I am able to attach a meaning to the statement of simultaneity. (I would ask
the reader not to proceed farther until he is fully convinced on this point.)

After thinking the matter over for some time you then offer the following suggestion with which
to test simultaneity. By measuring along the rails, the connecting line AB should be measured
up and an observer placed at the mid-point M of the distance AB. This observer should be supplied
with an arrangement (e.g. two mirrors inclined at 90^0) which allows him visually to observe
both places A and B at the same time. If the observer perceives the two flashes of lightning
at the same time, then they are simultaneous.

I am very pleased with this suggestion, but for all that I cannot regard the matter as quite
settled, because I feel constrained to raise the following objection:

"Your definition would certainly be right, if only I knew that the light by means of which
the observer at M perceives the lightning flashes travels along the length A arrow M with the
same velocity as along the length B arrow M. But an examination of this supposition would only
be possible if we already had at our disposal the means of measuring time. It would thus appear
as though we were moving here in a logical circle."

After further consideration you cast a somewhat disdainful glance at me -- and rightly so --
and you declare:

"I maintain my previous definition nevertheless, because in reality it assumes absolutely nothing
about light. There is only one demand to be made of the definition of simultaneity, namely,
that in every real case it must supply us with an empirical decision as to whether or not the
conception that has to be defined is fulfilled. That my definition satisfies this demand is
indisputable. That light requires the same time to traverse the path A arrow M as for the path
B arrow M is in reality neither a supposition nor a hypothesis about the physical nature of
light, but a stipulation which I can make of my own freewill in order to arrive at a definition
of simultaneity."

It is clear that this definition can be used to give an exact meaning not only to two events,
but to as many events as we care to choose, and independently of the positions of the scenes
of the events with respect to the body of reference * (here the railway embankment). We are
thus led also to a definition of " time " in physics. For this purpose we suppose that clocks
of identical construction are placed at the points A, B and C of the railway line (co-ordinate
system) and that they are set in such a manner that the positions of their pointers are simultaneously
(in the above sense) the same. Under these conditions we understand by the " time " of an event
the reading (position of the hands) of that one of these clocks which is in the immediate vicinity
(in space) of the event. In this manner a time-value is associated with every event which is
essentially capable of observation.

This stipulation contains a further physical hypothesis, the validity of which will hardly
be doubted without empirical evidence to the contrary. It has been assumed that all these clocks
go at the same rate if they are of identical construction. Stated more exactly: When two clocks
arranged at rest in different places of a reference-body are set in such a manner that a particular
position of the pointers of the one clock is simultaneous (in the above sense) with the same
position, of the pointers of the other clock, then identical " settings " are always simultaneous
(in the sense of the above definition).

  Notes

*) We suppose further, that, when three events A, B and C occur in different places in such
a manner that A is simultaneous with B and B is simultaneous with C (simultaneous in the sense
of the above definition), then the criterion for the simultaneity of the pair of events A,
C is also satisfied. This assumption is a physical hypothesis about the the of propagation
of light: it must certainly be fulfilled if we are to maintain the law of the constancy of
the velocity of light in vacuo.

THE RELATIVITY OF SIMULATNEITY

Up to now our considerations have been referred to a particular body of reference, which we
have styled a " railway embankment." We suppose a very long train travelling along the rails
with the constant velocity v and in the direction indicated in Fig 1. People travelling in
this train will with a vantage view the train as a rigid reference-body (co-ordinate system);
they regard all events in

                       Fig. 01: file fig01.gif

reference to the train. Then every event which takes place along the line also takes place
at a particular point of the train. Also the definition of simultaneity can be given relative
to the train in exactly the same way as with respect to the embankment. As a natural consequence,
however, the following question arises :

Are two events (e.g. the two strokes of lightning A and B) which are simultaneous with reference
to the railway embankment also simultaneous relatively to the train? We shall show directly
that the answer must be in the negative.

When we say that the lightning strokes A and B are simultaneous with respect to be embankment,
we mean: the rays of light emitted at the places A and B, where the lightning occurs, meet
each other at the mid-point M of the length A arrow B of the embankment. But the events A and
B also correspond to positions A and B on the train. Let M1 be the mid-point of the distance
A arrow B on the travelling train. Just when the flashes (as judged from the embankment) of
lightning occur, this point M1 naturally coincides with the point M but it moves towards the
right in the diagram with the velocity v of the train. If an observer sitting in the position
M1 in the train did not possess this velocity, then he would remain permanently at M, and the
light rays emitted by the flashes of lightning A and B would reach him simultaneously, i.e.
they would meet just where he is situated. Now in reality (considered with reference to the
railway embankment) he is hastening towards the beam of light coming from B, whilst he is riding
on ahead of the beam of light coming from A. Hence the observer will see the beam of light
emitted from B earlier than he will see that emitted from A. Observers who take the railway
train as their reference-body must therefore come to the conclusion that the lightning flash
B took place earlier than the lightning flash A. We thus arrive at the important result:

Events which are simultaneous with reference to the embankment are not simultaneous with respect
to the train, and vice versa (relativity of simultaneity). Every reference-body (co-ordinate
system) has its own particular time ; unless we are told the reference-body to which the statement
of time refers, there is no meaning in a statement of the time of an event.

Now before the advent of the theory of relativity it had always tacitly been assumed in physics
that the statement of time had an absolute significance, i.e. that it is independent of the
state of motion of the body of reference. But we have just seen that this assumption is incompatible
with the most natural definition of simultaneity; if we discard this assumption, then the conflict
between the law of the propagation of light in vacuo and the principle of relativity (developed
in Section 7) disappears.

We were led to that conflict by the considerations of Section 6, which are now no longer tenable.
In that section we concluded that the man in the carriage, who traverses the distance w per
second relative to the carriage, traverses the same distance also with respect to the embankment
in each second of time. But, according to the foregoing considerations, the time required by
a particular occurrence with respect to the carriage must not be considered equal to the duration
of the same occurrence as judged from the embankment (as reference-body). Hence it cannot be
contended that the man in walking travels the distance w relative to the railway line in a
time which is equal to one second as judged from the embankment.

Moreover, the considerations of Section 6 are based on yet a second assumption, which, in the
light of a strict consideration, appears to be arbitrary, although it was always tacitly made
even before the introduction of the theory of relativity.

ON THE RELATIVITY OF THE CONCEPTION OF DISTANCE

Let us consider two particular points on the train * travelling along the embankment with the
velocity v, and inquire as to their distance apart. We already know that it is necessary to
have a body of reference for the measurement of a distance, with respect to which body the
distance can be measured up. It is the simplest plan to use the train itself as reference-body
(co-ordinate system). An observer in the train measures the interval by marking off his measuring-rod
in a straight line (e.g. along the floor of the carriage) as many times as is necessary to
take him from the one marked point to the other. Then the number which tells us how often the
rod has to be laid down is the required distance.

It is a different matter when the distance has to be judged from the railway line. Here the
following method suggests itself. If we call A^1 and B^1 the two points on the train whose
distance apart is required, then both of these points are moving with the velocity v along
the embankment. In the first place we require to determine the points A and B of the embankment
which are just being passed by the two points A^1 and B^1 at a particular time t -- judged
from the embankment. These points A and B of the embankment can be determined by applying the
definition of time given in Section 8. The distance between these points A and B is then measured
by repeated application of thee measuring-rod along the embankment.

A priori it is by no means certain that this last measurement will supply us with the same
result as the first. Thus the length of the train as measured from the embankment may be different
from that obtained by measuring in the train itself. This circumstance leads us to a second
objection which must be raised against the apparently obvious consideration of Section 6. Namely,
if the man in the carriage covers the distance w in a unit of time -- measured from the train,
-- then this distance -- as measured from the embankment -- is not necessarily also equal to w.

  Notes

*) e.g. the middle of the first and of the hundredth carriage.

THE LORENTZ TRANSFORMATION

The results of the last three sections show that the apparent incompatibility of the law of
propagation of light with the principle of relativity (Section 7) has been derived by means
of a consideration which borrowed two unjustifiable hypotheses from classical mechanics; these
are as follows:

(1) The time-interval (time) between two events is independent of the condition of motion of
the body of reference.

(2) The space-interval (distance) between two points of a rigid body is independent of the
condition of motion of the body of reference.

If we drop these hypotheses, then the dilemma of Section 7 disappears, because the theorem
of the addition of velocities derived in Section 6 becomes invalid. The possibility presents
itself that the law of the propagation of light in vacuo may be compatible with the principle
of relativity, and the question arises: How have we to modify the considerations of Section
6 in order to remove the apparent disagreement between these two fundamental results of experience?
This question leads to a general one. In the discussion of Section 6 we have to do with places
and times relative both to the train and to the embankment. How are we to find the place and
time of an event in relation to the train, when we know the place and time of the event with
respect to the railway embankment ? Is there a thinkable answer to this question of such a
nature that the law of transmission of light in vacuo does not contradict the principle of
relativity ? In other words : Can we conceive of a relation between place and time of the individual
events relative to both reference-bodies, such that every ray of light possesses the velocity
of transmission c relative to the embankment and relative to the train ? This question leads
to a quite definite positive answer, and to a perfectly definite transformation law for the
space-time magnitudes of an event when changing over from one body of reference to another.

Before we deal with this, we shall introduce the following incidental consideration. Up to
the present we have only considered events taking place along the embankment, which had mathematically
to assume the function of a straight line. In the manner indicated in Section 2 we can imagine
this reference-body supplemented laterally and in a vertical direction by means of a framework
of rods, so that an event which takes place anywhere can be localised with reference to this
framework. Fig. 2 Similarly, we can imagine the train travelling with the velocity v to be
continued across the whole of space, so that every event, no matter how far off it may be,
could also be localised with respect to the second framework. Without committing any fundamental
error, we can disregard the fact that in reality these frameworks would continually interfere
with each other, owing to the impenetrability of solid bodies. In every such framework we imagine
three surfaces perpendicular to each other marked out, and designated as " co-ordinate planes
" (" co-ordinate system "). A co-ordinate system K then corresponds to the embankment, and
a co-ordinate system K' to the train. An event, wherever it may have taken place, would be
fixed in space with respect to K by the three perpendiculars x, y, z on the co-ordinate planes,
and with regard to time by a time value t. Relative to K1, the same event would be fixed in
respect of space and time by corresponding values x1, y1, z1, t1, which of course are not identical
with x, y, z, t. It has already been set forth in detail how these magnitudes are to be regarded
as results of physical measurements.

Obviously our problem can be exactly formulated in the following manner. What are the values
x1, y1, z1, t1, of an event with respect to K1, when the magnitudes x, y, z, t, of the same
event with respect to K are given ? The relations must be so chosen that the law of the transmission
of light in vacuo is satisfied for one and the same ray of light (and of course for every ray)
with respect to K and K1. For the relative orientation in space of the co-ordinate systems
indicated in the diagram ([7]Fig. 2), this problem is solved by means of the equations :

                         eq. Much is
safe, but nothing beyond that. Until very recently (1912) has an art writer (Max Sauerlandt) can make
the statement: "On no work of art in the world are so contradictory Verdicts have been like on this
panköpfigen Moses. Even the simple interpretation the character moves in perfect contradictions
... "at the hands of a compilation, the back is only for five years, I will explain what doubts
on the view the figure of Moses make and it will not be difficult to show that behind them the
Essential to the understanding and best hidden of this work is [4].

  [4] Henry Thode, Michelangelo, critical studies of his Works, vol.,
  1908.

1.

The Moses of Michelangelo, is shown seated, the body facing forward, the head with the mighty
beard and his eyes turned to the left, resting right foot on the ground, the left set up so that
it only touches the floor with his toes, his right arm with the panels and part of the beard in
relationship, the left arm is placed in the womb. Wanted I give a more accurate description,
I would have to anticipate what I put forward later have. The descriptions of the authors are
sometimes inaccurate in a remarkable way. What was not understood, was also perceived inaccurate
or played. H. Grimm says that the right hand, "under the arms of the tablets of rest, grab the beard."
Similarly, W. Luebke, "Shaken, he grasps with his right hand his magnificent flowing beard
...«; Springer: "The one (left) hand pressed to the body of Moses, with the other he picks as
unconsciously the powerful flowing beard. "C. Justi finds that the fingers of the (right) hand
with the beard play, as the civilized man "in the excitement" with the watch chain. Playing
with the Bart also highlights Müntz. H. Thode speaks of the "quiet firm position of the right hand
"Propped up on the boards. Even in his right hand he does not recognize a game of excitement, Justi
and how similar Boito want. "The hand remains as they cross into his beard, held was before the
titanium head to the side. turned "Jakob Burkhardt exhibits," that
the famous left arm to do basically nothing else had, as this beard,
"to press on the abdomen.

If the descriptions do not match, we will get over the difference in the Not a view of individual
features of the statue surprise. I think though, we can face of Moses not characterize better
than Thode, of a "mixture of anger, pain and Contempt "of it read," the anger in the frowning
threateningly, the pain in the look of the eyes, contempt in the advanced lower lip and pulled
down Corners of his mouth. " But other admirers must have seen with new eyes. So had Dupaty judged:
Ce front Augustan semble qu'un voile n'être transparent, qui couvre à peine un esprit immense [5].
Contrast, Lubke said: "In his head, one would forgive the expression of higher intelligence
look, nothing but the ability of an immense anger, an all-penetrating energy is expressed in
the crowded forehead. "Farther away, in the interpretation of facial expression Guillaume (1875),
who found no excitement in it, "just proud simplicity, soulful dignity, power of faith. Moses' view
going into the future, he sees the period of Race, the immutability of His law requires. " Similarly
we can Müntz "the eyes of Moses hinschweifen much about the human race, saying they are focused
on the mysteries that he Sole has been observed. " Yes, for this man Moses Stone is no longer "the
rigid legislator, no longer the terrible enemy of sin with Jehovazorn, but the royal priesthood,
What age do not touch, may the blessing and prophetic, the reflection of eternity in my forehead
from his people take the last farewell. "

  

[5] Thode, l. c., p. 197.

There have been other, where the Moses of Michelangelo did not say anything, and the were honest
enough to express it. As one reviewer in the Quarterly Review 1858: "There is in absence of meaning
in the general conception, the idea of ​​a PRECLUDE Which self-sufficing whole ... "And one is surprised
to learn that yet another nothing to admire in the Moses found, but
rebelled against him, accusing the brutality of the figure and the
animal-like of the head.

If the master really so vague or ambiguous text written in the stone, that such different readings are
possible?

It does, however, a different question, which the mentioned uncertainties submit easily. Does
this create Michelangelo Moses a "timeless character and mood," do or he was the hero in a
certain, but highly significant moment of his life presented? A majority of judges chooses the
latter, and also knows the scene from the life of Moses to specify which spellbound the artist for
the ages added. This is the descent from Mount Sinai, where he had the tablets from God is being
received, and the perception that the Jews meanwhile made a golden calf have they dance around joyfully.
In this picture his eyes are directed, this vision calls the sensations produced, expressed
in his face and the huge figure soon put in the most violent action will be. Michelangelo
is the moment of the last delay, the calm before the storm, elected representation, and the
next will leap Moses - the left foot is already off the ground -
smashing the tablets to the ground and his wrath discharge through
the latter.

In making such interpretations differ from one another and their representatives.

Jak.

Burkhardt: "Moses seems represented in the moments when he worship of the golden Calf sees and
wants to jump up. It lives in its form, the preparation for a massive Movement, as experienced
on the physical power with which it is equipped only with trembling . Might expect "

W. Luebke, "When saw the flashing eyes just the sin of the worship of the golden calf, jerks so violently
by an internal movement of the whole figure. Shaken, he engages with the Right in the gorgeous,
flowing beard, as he wanted his motion for a moment Mr. remain, then the more shattering leave.
"

Springer agrees with this view, not without proposing a concern, which continues still claim
our attention, "glowing with energy and zeal, the hero fights it is difficult for inner excitement
down ...... You think so involuntarily to a dramatic Scene and said,
Moses is depicted at the moment, as the worship of the golden Calf
sees and wants to jump up in anger.

  This assumption is correct, although hardly the true Intention of
the artist, since Moses, as the other five seated statues of the pavement
[6] should primarily decorative effect, but may not but as a shining
testimony to the vitality and apply the personal nature of the Moses
figure.

"

[6] From the grave monument of the Pope that is.

Some authors who opt not just for the scene of the golden calf meet but with this interpretation
in the most basic issues with the fact that this Moses in the act had to jump up and begin
to move.

Herman Grimm, "A sovereign, they met (this figure), a self-consciousness,
a feeling that stood this man the thunder of heaven at his command,
but he bezwänge himself before he unleashed Expecting that the enemy
wants to destroy it, dared to attack him.

He sits there, as he just wanted to jump up, the head proudly stretched from the shoulders up, with
the Hand resting on the arms of the tablets, clutching in his beard, which in heavy currents
drops to the chest, with wide nostrils and a mouth-breathing, on
whose lips the words seem to shake.

"

Heath Wilson says, Moses' attention was attracted by something he had to jump up on the point
but he still hesitated. The look in the mixed indignation and contempt were able to nor change in
sympathy.

Wölfflin speaks of "uninhibited movement. The inhibition is due here in the will of the person itself,
it is the last moment of Ansichhaltens before the breakaway, ie, before popping up.

C. Justi has most thoroughly the interpretation on the perception of the golden calf justified and
otherwise ignored details of the statue as being related to that view. He directs our attention
to the conspicuous position, in fact, the two tablets of the law, which the terms were, herabzugleiten
on the stone seat: "He (Moses) could thus either in the Direction of the noise look Expressing
misgivings, or it would be the sight of the abomination itself, which makes him like a stunning
blow. By trembles with horror and pain he has settled [7]. He had remained on the mountain forty
days and nights, so tired. The enormous, a great destiny, crime, even a happiness can indeed,
in a moment be perceived, but not after being taken, depth, consequences. A moment seems he destroyed
his work, he despairs of this people. In such moments, reveals the inner turmoil in small
involuntary movements. He makes the two tables, which he in his right hand held down to slip
on the stone seat, they have come to stand in a corner, from the forearm to the side of the chest
down. The hand but leaves the chest and beard, the Twist of the neck to the right she has to pull
the beard to the left side and the symmetry This broad male ornament pick, it looks as if the
fingers were playing with the beard, as the civilized man in the
excitement with the watch chain.

  The left digs in Rock on the belly (in the Old Testament are the guts
  seat of the emotions). But the left leg has been withdrawn and the
  right set before the next moment he will fly, the psychic force
  of the feeling on the will skip right arm to move, the panels will fall
  to the ground and the shame of the waste streams of blood atone ....«
"It is not yet the moment of tension indeed.

Nor the anguish reigns almost paralyzing. "

[7] It is noted that the careful arrangement of the mantle to the legs of the seated figure of
this first piece of interpretation Justis makes untenable. One would assume, rather, it was
shows how Moses in the mood for sitting there without a sudden perception will be deterred.

Quite
similar is expressed Fritz Knapp, except that he expressed the entrance to the earlier Concerns
eludes even the implied movement of the panels consistently continues: "Him, of a moment ago
with his God alone was to draw, underground sounds from. He hears a noise, the Cry sung by
dancing round him up from his dream. The eye, the head contact toward the noise. Terror, anger,
all the fury of wild passions crossed in Moment, the giant form.

Tables of the Law herabzugleiten catch on, they will be down fall and break when the form opens
to remove the thundering Zornesworte to the masses to hurl the breakaway nation .... This moment
of high tension is selected ....« Knapp emphasized that is the preparation for action and denies
the representation of the initial Inhibition due to the tremendous excitement.

We will not deny that such attempts at interpretation, the last mentioned by Justi and Knapp have
something very Attractive. They owe this effect to the fact that they are not in the overall
impression of the figure remain, but individual characters of the same To appreciate what
is otherwise overwhelmed by the general effect and to observe as it paralyzed missed. Since the decisive
turn of the head and eyes facing forward in the rest Figure agrees well with the assumption
that there is something seen what suddenly the attention the rest moves up. Detached from the
bottom of the foot can hardly be a different interpretation, than that of a preparation to spring
up [8], and the very strange attitude of the panels, the somewhat
sacrosanct, and not as an arbitrary attribute somehow placed in the
room may be, their good education takes on the assumption that they
slipped as a result of excitation of the wearer down and would then
fall to the ground.

  So we knew then, that the statue of Moses a particular significant
  moment in the life of man is, and would also not in danger of mistaking
this moment.

[8] Although the left foot of the quietly seated in the Giuliano Medici Chapel is raised similar.

But
two observations of Thode wrest from us again what we already believed to possess. This observer
says he can not see the panels slide down, but remain "fixed." He stated "the quiet steadfastness
of the right hand on the boards propped up." Look ourselves out, so we have to give without
reserve Thode right.

The panels are identified and not to slip into danger. The right hand supports it is based
or to them. This Although their inventory is not explained, but it is the interpretation of Justi
and others unusable.

A second remark is even more crucial. Thode reminds them that "as this statue One was thought
of six men and that she is shown seated. Both contradict the assumption Michelangelo had wanted to
fix a particular historical moment. For what the first concerned, concluded the task next to
each other seated figures as types of human nature (Vita activa!

Vita contemplative!) To give the idea of ​​individual historical events from. And regarding the
second contradicts the view of the sitting, which through the entire artistic conception of the
monument was due, the nature of that process, namely the Descent from Mount Sinai "to the
camp.

Let us know Thode's own concerns, I mean, we will increase his power still can. The Moses was five
(in a later draft three) other statues of the pedestal grave monument of grace. His next equivalent
of a Paul should have been. Two of the others, the Vita activa and contemplative than Leah
and Rachel in the present day, miserably stunted monument was executed, but standing. This membership
of the Moses an ensemble makes it impossible to accept that the figure of the spectator in the
expectation should give, she would jump up from her seat right now, about this storm and own
beat noise. If the other characters not just in the preparation shown to be more violent action
were - which is very unlikely - it would be the worst impression, especially when one could
give us the illusion that it would its Place and their comrades left,
that is beyond their role in the structure of the monument.

This would result in a gross inconsistency, which one of the great artists without the extreme
duress might expect. One of them storming into this kind would figure with the mood that the
is to bring all the grave monument, the extreme incompatible.

So this Moses may not want to jump, he must be able to remain in noble silence, as the other
characters, such as the intentional (not then executed by Michelangelo) of the image But then,
the Pope himself Moses, which we consider not the representation of the His anger covered man
who finds coming down from Sinai, his people rebelled and the holy Panels throws that they shatter.
And really, I know of my disappointment , If I remember on previous visits to St. Peter in Chains
was sitting down in front of the statue, in the expectation that I will now see how they bounce
up to the one established base, such as hurling the tablets to the
ground and their anger will unload.

Nothing came of it, rather than which the stone was more rigid, an almost overwhelming holy
silence came from him, and feel I had, something was shown, which could remain unchanged so
that Moses will sit there forever so and so angry.

But if we are to interpret the statue with the moment before the breakaway anger at the sight
must give up the idol, so we are left little more left than the views be assumed that want to recognize
a character image in this Moses. On most of arbitrariness Having free and best on the analysis of
the movement motifs of the form will appear the verdict of Thode, "Here, as always, it's him in the design
of a type of character to . Do It creates the image of a passionate leader of mankind, who,
of his divine legislative task aware of the unreasonable opposition of the people encountered. Such
a to characterize a man of action, there was no other way than to illustrate the power of the
will, and this was possible due to urgent by illustrating a the apparent calm Movement, as in the turn
of the head, the tension of the muscles, the position of the left Leg is expressed. They are the
same phenomena as in the virtual activus the Medici Chapel Giuliano. This general pattern is
deepened further by highlighting the conflict, in which such a formative genius of mankind to the
public occurs: the emotions of anger, contempt, pain, go to the typical expression. Without this
was the Nature of such super-human to illustrate not. Not a historical picture, but a Type
of character invincible power, which tames the reluctant world, Michelangelo created, which
in the Bible given traits that own inner experiences, impressions
of Personality Julius', and I think even those of the struggle Savonarolaschen
activity creatively.

"

In the vicinity of the above, one can move about the remark of Knackfuss:
The main secret the effect of Moses lies in the artistic contrast
between the inner fire and the outward calm attitude.

I find nothing in me that resisted explanation of Thode would, but I miss anything. Maybe that expresses
a need for a more intimate relationship between the state of mind
of the hero and the attitude expressed in his opposition of "apparent
Peace "and" inner emotion ".

2.

Long before I could hear something from psychoanalysis, I learned that a Russian art expert,
Ivan Lermolieff, the first papers were published from 1874 to 1876 in German, had caused an upheaval
in the galleries of Europe by the allocation of many images to the individual painter revised
to distinguish copies from originals with safety taught and from the names of her earlier works
which have come new artistic individuality constructed. He managed this by the overall impression
of the great trains disregard of a painting called the characteristic and significance of minor
details emphasized by such details as the formation of the nails, the ears, the Halo and other
unnoticed things that the copyist neglects to imitate, and yet which every artist in a way
characteristic of him running. It then made me very interested to know that behind the Russian
pseudonym of an Italian doctor had hidden named Morelli. He died in 1891 as Senator of the
Kingdom of Italy. I think his method is the technique of medical psychoanalysis near relatives.
This is also used, from despised or ignored trains, from the dregs
- to guess the observation, secret and hidden things - the "refuse".

In two places the Moses figure can now be found details that were previously ignored, actually not been
described correctly. They concern the attitude of the right hand and the position of the two panels.
One may say that this hand in a very strange, forced, Declaration thirsted way between the tables
and the - of the angry hero Bart taught. It has been said that she is digging his fingers in my
beard, plays with the strands of the same, supporting herself with the little finger edge of the
panels. But this does not seem to.

  It is worth while to grasp carefully considered, do the finger of
right hand and the mighty beard, at which they occur in relation to
describe exactly [9].

[9] See the leaflet.

One sees very clearly: the thumb of that hand is hidden, the index finger and this is only effective
with the beard in touch. He expresses himself so deeply in the soft Hair masses that they above
and below him (towards the head and towards the abdomen by pressing fingers) springing on his level.
The other three fingers digging in their heels, in the small joints flexed to the chest wall,
they are by the far right of the beard lichen, which it transcends merely touched. You have the
beard as it were withdrawn.

We can therefore do not tell the right hand playing with the beard or rummage in it, nothing
else is right than that of a pointing finger is placed over a portion
of the beard and a deep trough in it causes. press a finger on his
beard, is certainly a strange and difficult understandable gesture.

The
much-admired Moses' beard running from cheek, upper lip and chin in
a number of Strands down, you can still differ from each other in
their course. Guided by purely formal points of view, H. A. Lorentz was the first to introduce
the hypothesis that the form of the electron experiences a contraction in the direction of
motion in consequence of that motion. the contracted length being proportional to the expression

                        eq. 05: file eq05.gif

This, hypothesis, which is not justifiable by any electrodynamical facts, supplies us then
with that particular law of motion which has been confirmed with great precision in recent years.

The theory of relativity leads to the same law of motion, without requiring any special hypothesis
whatsoever as to the structure and the behaviour of the electron. We arrived at a similar conclusion
in Section 13 in connection with the experiment of Fizeau, the result of which is foretold
by the theory of relativity without the necessity of drawing on hypotheses as to the physical
nature of the liquid.

The second class of facts to which we have alluded has reference to the question whether or
not the motion of the earth in space can be made perceptible in terrestrial experiments. We
have already remarked in Section 5 that all attempts of this nature led to a negative result.
Before the theory of relativity was put forward, it was difficult to become reconciled to this
negative result, for reasons now to be discussed. The inherited prejudices about time and space
did not allow any doubt to arise as to the prime importance of the Galileian transformation
for changing over from one body of reference to another. Now assuming that the Maxwell-Lorentz
equations hold for a reference-body K, we then find that they do not hold for a reference-body
K1 moving uniformly with respect to K, if we assume that the relations of the Galileian transformstion
exist between the co-ordinates of K and K1. It thus appears that, of all Galileian co-ordinate
systems, one (K) corresponding to a particular state of motion is physically unique. This result
was interpreted physically by regarding K as at rest with respect to a hypothetical æther of
space. On the other hand, all coordinate systems K1 moving relatively to K were to be regarded
as in motion with respect to the æther. To this motion of K1 against the æther ("æther-drift
" relative to K1) were attributed the more complicated laws which were supposed to hold relative
to K1. Strictly speaking, such an æther-drift ought also to be assumed relative to the earth,
and for a long time the efforts of physicists were devoted to attempts to detect the existence
of an æther-drift at the earth's surface.

In one of the most notable of these attempts Michelson devised a method which appears as though
it must be decisive. Imagine two mirrors so arranged on a rigid body that the reflecting surfaces
face each other. A ray of light requires a perfectly definite time T to pass from one mirror
to the other and back again, if the whole system be at rest with respect to the æther. It is
found by calculation, however, that a slightly different time T1 is required for this process,
if the body, together with the mirrors, be moving relatively to the æther. And yet another
point: it is shown by calculation that for a given velocity v with reference to the æther,
this time T1 is different when the body is moving perpendicularly to the planes of the mirrors
from that resulting when the motion is parallel to these planes. Although the estimated difference
between these two times is exceedingly small, Michelson and Morley performed an experiment
involving interference in which this difference should have been clearly detectable. But the
experiment gave a negative result -- a fact very perplexing to physicists. Lorentz and FitzGerald
rescued the theory from this difficulty by assuming that the motion of the body relative to
the æther produces a contraction of the body in the direction of motion, the amount of contraction
being just sufficient to compensate for the differeace in time mentioned above. Comparison
with the discussion in Section 11 shows that also from the standpoint of the theory of relativity
this solution of the difficulty was the right one. But on the basis of the theory of relativity
the method of interpretation is incomparably more satisfactory. According to this theory there
is no such thing as a " specially favoured " (unique) co-ordinate system to occasion the introduction
of the æther-idea, and hence there can be no æther-drift, nor any experiment with which to
demonstrate it. Here the contraction of moving bodies follows from the two fundamental principles
of the theory, without the introduction of particular hypotheses ; and as the prime factor
involved in this contraction we find, not the motion in itself, to which we cannot attach any
meaning, but the motion with respect to the body of reference chosen in the particular case
in point. Thus for a co-ordinate system moving with the earth the mirror system of Michelson
and Morley is not shortened, but it is shortened for a co-ordinate system which is at rest
relatively to the sun.

  Notes

*) The general theory of relativity renders it likely that the electrical masses of an electron
are held together by gravitational forces.

MINKOWSKI'S FOUR-DIMENSIONAL SPACE

The non-mathematician is seized by a mysterious shuddering when he hears of "four-dimensional"
things, by a feeling not unlike that awakened by thoughts of the occult. And yet there is no
more common-place statement than that the world in which we live is a four-dimensional space-time
continuum.

Space is a three-dimensional continuum. By this we mean that it is possible to describe the
position of a point (at rest) by means of three numbers (co-ordinales) x, y, z, and that there
is an indefinite number of points in the neighbourhood of this one, the position of which can
be described by co-ordinates such as x[1], y[1], z[1], which may be as near as we choose to
the respective values of the co-ordinates x, y, z, of the first point. In virtue of the latter
property we speak of a " continuum," and owing to the fact that there are three co-ordinates
we speak of it as being " three-dimensional."

Similarly, the world of physical phenomena which was briefly called " world " by Minkowski
is naturally four dimensional in the space-time sense. For it is composed of individual events,
each of which is described by four numbers, namely, three space co-ordinates x, y, z, and a
time co-ordinate, the time value t. The" world" is in this sense also a continuum; for to every
event there are as many "neighbouring" events (realised or at least thinkable) as we care to
choose, the co-ordinates x[1], y[1], z[1], t[1] of which differ by an indefinitely small amount
from those of the event x, y, z, t originally considered. That we have not been accustomed
to regard the world in this sense as a four-dimensional continuum is due to the fact that in
physics, before the advent of the theory of relativity, time played a different and more independent
role, as compared with the space coordinates. It is for this reason that we have been in the
habit of treating time as an independent continuum. As a matter of fact, according to classical
mechanics, time is absolute, i.e. it is independent of the position and the condition of motion
of the system of co-ordinates. We see this expressed in the last equation of the Galileian
transformation (t1 = t)

The four-dimensional mode of consideration of the "world" is natural on the theory of relativity,
since according to this theory time is robbed of its independence. This is shown by the fourth
equation of the Lorentz transformation:

                        eq. 24: file eq24.gif

Moreover, according to this equation the time difference Dt1 of two events with respect to
K1 does not in general vanish, even when the time difference Dt1 of the same events with reference
to K vanishes. Pure " space-distance " of two events with respect to K results in " time-distance
" of the same events with respect to K. But the discovery of Minkowski, which was of importance
for the formal development of the theory of relativity, does not lie here. It is to be found
rather in the fact of his recognition that the four-dimensional space-time continuum of the
theory of relativity, in its most essential formal properties, shows a pronounced relationship
to the three-dimensional continuum of Euclidean geometrical space.*  In order to give due prominence
to this relationship, however, we must replace the usual time co-ordinate t by an imaginary
magnitude eq. 25 proportional to it. Under these conditions, the natural laws satisfying the
demands of the (special) theory of relativity assume mathematical forms, in which the time
co-ordinate plays exactly the same role as the three space co-ordinates. Formally, these four
co-ordinates correspond exactly to the three space co-ordinates in Euclidean geometry. It must
be clear even to the non-mathematician that, as a consequence of this purely formal addition
to our knowledge, the theory perforce gained clearness in no mean measure.

These inadequate remarks can give the reader only a vague notion of the important idea contributed
by Minkowski. Without it the general theory of relativity, of which the fundamental ideas are
developed in the following pages, would perhaps have got no farther than its long clothes.
Minkowski's work is doubtless difficult of access to anyone inexperienced in mathematics, but
since it is not necessary to have a very exact grasp of this work in order to understand the
fundamental ideas of either the special or the general theory of relativity, I shall leave
it here at present, and revert to it only towards the end of Part 2.

  Notes

*) Cf. the somewhat more detailed discussion in Appendix II.

PART II

THE GENERAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY

SPECIAL AND GENERAL PRINCIPLE OF RELATIVITY

The basal principle, which was the pivot of all our previous considerations, was the special
principle of relativity, i.e. the principle of the physical relativity of all uniform motion.
Let as once more analyse its meaning carefully.

It was at all times clear that, from the point of view of the idea it conveys to us, every
motion must be considered only as a relative motion. Returning to the illustration we have
frequently used of the embankment and the railway carriage, we can express the fact of the
motion here taking place in the following two forms, both of which are equally justifiable :

(a) The carriage is in motion relative to the embankment, (b) The embankment is in motion relative
to the carriage.

In (a) the embankment, in (b) the carriage, serves as the body of reference in our statement
of the motion taking place. If it is simply a question of detecting or of describing the motion
involved, it is in principle immaterial to what reference-body we refer the motion. As already
mentioned, this is self-evident, but it must not be confused with the much more comprehensive
statement called "the principle of relativity," which we have taken as the basis of our investigations.

The principle we have made use of not only maintains that we may equally well choose the carriage
or the embankment as our reference-body for the description of any event (for this, too, is
self-evident). Our principle rather asserts what follows : If we formulate the general laws
of nature as they are obtained from experience, by making use of

(a) the embankment as reference-body, (b) the railway carriage as reference-body,

then these general laws of nature (e.g. the laws of mechanics or the law of the propagation
of light in vacuo) have exactly the same form in both cases. This can also be expressed as
follows : For the physical description of natural processes, neither of the reference bodies
K, K1 is unique (lit. " specially marked out ") as compared with the other. Unlike the first,
this latter statement need not of necessity hold a priori; it is not contained in the conceptions
of " motion" and " reference-body " and derivable from them; only experience can decide as
to its correctness or incorrectness.

Up to the present, however, we have by no means maintained the equivalence of all bodies of
reference K in connection with the formulation of natural laws. Our course was more on the
following Iines. In the first place, we started out from the assumption that there exists a
reference-body K, whose condition of motion is such that the Galileian law holds with respect
to it : A particle left to itself and sufficiently far removed from all other particles moves
uniformly in a straight line. With reference to K (Galileian reference-body) the laws of nature
were to be as simple as possible. But in addition to K, all bodies of reference K1 should be
given preference in this sense, and they should be exactly equivalent to K for the formulation
of natural laws, provided that they are in a state of uniform rectilinear and non-rotary motion
with respect to K ; all these bodies of reference are to be regarded as Galileian reference-bodies.
The validity of the principle of relativity was assumed only for these reference-bodies, but
not for others (e.g. those possessing motion of a different kind). In this sense we speak of
the special principle of relativity, or special theory of relativity.

In contrast to this we wish to understand by the "general principle of relativity" the following
statement : All bodies of reference K, K1, etc., are equivalent for the description of natural
phenomena (formulation of the general laws of nature), whatever may be their state of motion.
But before proceeding farther, it ought to be pointed out that this formulation must be replaced
later by a more abstract one, for reasons which will become evident at a later stage.

Since the introduction of the special principle of relativity has been justified, every intellect
which strives after generalisation must feel the temptation to venture the step towards the
general principle of relativity. But a simple and apparently quite reliable consideration seems
to suggest that, for the present at any rate, there is little hope of success in such an attempt;
Let us imagine ourselves transferred to our old friend the railway carriage, which is travelling
at a uniform rate. As long as it is moving unifromly, the occupant of the carriage is not sensible
of its motion, and it is for this reason that he can without reluctance interpret the facts
of the case as indicating that the carriage is at rest, but the embankment in motion. Moreover,
according to the special principle of relativity, this interpretation is quite justified also
from a physical point of view.

If the motion of the carriage is now changed into a non-uniform motion, as for instance by
a powerful application of the brakes, then the occupant of the carriage experiences a correspondingly
powerful jerk forwards. The retarded motion is manifested in the mechanical behaviour of bodies
relative to the person in the railway carriage. The mechanical behaviour is different from
that of the case previously considered, and for this reason it would appear to be impossible
that the same mechanical laws hold relatively to the non-uniformly moving carriage, as hold
with reference to the carriage when at rest or in uniform motion. At all events it is clear
that the Galileian law does not hold with respect to the non-uniformly moving carriage. Because
of this, we feel compelled at the present juncture to grant a kind of absolute physical reality
to non-uniform motion, in opposition to the general principle of relatvity. But in what follows
we shall soon see that this conclusion cannot be maintained.

THE GRAVITATIONAL FIELD

"If we pick up a stone and then let it go, why does it fall to the ground ?" The usual answer
to this question is: "Because it is attracted by the earth." Modern physics formulates the
answer rather differently for the following reason. As a result of the more careful study of
electromagnetic phenomena, we have come to regard action at a distance as a process impossible
without the intervention of some intermediary medium. If, for instance, a magnet attracts a
piece of iron, we cannot be content to regard this as meaning that the magnet acts directly
on the iron through the intermediate empty space, but we are constrained to imagine -- after
the manner of Faraday -- that the magnet always calls into being something physically real
in the space around it, that something being what we call a "magnetic field." In its turn this
magnetic field operates on the piece of iron, so that the latter strives to move towards the
magnet. We shall not discuss here the justification for this incidental conception, which is
indeed a somewhat arbitrary one. We shall only mention that with its aid electromagnetic phenomena
can be theoretically represented much more satisfactorily than without it, and this applies
particularly to the transmission of electromagnetic waves. The effects of gravitation also
are regarded in an analogous manner.

The action of the earth on the stone takes place indirectly. The earth produces in its surrounding
a gravitational field, which acts on the stone and produces its motion of fall. As we know
from experience, the intensity of the action on a body dimishes according to a quite definite
law, as we proceed farther and farther away from the earth. From our point of view this means
: The law governing the properties of the gravitational field in space must be a perfectly
definite one, in order correctly to represent the diminution of gravitational action with the
distance from operative bodies. "Here is not comfortable. Are you
cold not when you are so wet? "

"I froestl only sometimes a little, otherwise it is rather hot to
me from picking up."

"Now it we read together all again. "

"And, too," laughed and cried Cheppi, as the pear, which he had thrown on the Wiseli the temple,
met that it was very pale and shot him in pain, the water in the eye.

Otto had scarcely seen that when he drove off to the Cheppi it overturned along with his basket
and grabbed him firmly by the neck. "Stop it, I have to choke," gurgled
the Cheppi.

Now laugh not he.

"You shall remember that you have to do with me if you deal so with the Wiseli" Otto said angrily.
"Do you have enough? Do you remember?"

"Yes, yes, let's just go!" asked Cheppi crumbly made.

Now let go of Otto.

"Now you have felt it," he said, "if you the Wiseli again do any harm, so I grab you so that
you still have a scare like this, if you seventy years old are. Goodbye, Wiseli. "That turned
around and went to Otto's Anger home.

Here he was looking straight to his mother and told her outraged that such a Wiseli treatment
would have to endure. He was quite determined on the body for the pastor to go and complain
to his uncle and his whole family so that they can wrest the Wiseli.

The mother heard, until Otto had calmed a little, then said: "My dear boy, which would use nothing,
the child would you not take away his uncle, only provoke him, when he heard something. He means
no harm to the child itself, and it is not sufficient Reason as to take away Wiseli. I know
that the poor child now eats a hard bread. I did not forget, I always look like it, if my God does
not a way of showing how the child could be helped. The matter really lies at the heart can you
believe that, Otto. If you now protect Wiseli and the coarse Cheppi a little tame them, without even
to this broadly, I'm all in agreement. "

Otto calmed himself with the thought that the mother in a different way for Wiseli looks. He
himself thought of all possible escape routes, but all led to the
air up and had no bottom.

And he saw that it could not Wiseli go. The whole society should come together in the evening
at seven clock and the Moonlit To run because it was the day of the
full moon.

Since it had to be magnificent. She had her not carried away by the enthusiasm with which the
children both at once and in the loudest Drown her the beauty is this venture marked.

But the objections were ineffective, and Pussy begged earnestly, as though his only Joy on this sleigh
ride. Otto promised, he was careful to Pussy and always stay close to him.

Finally agreed to the mother.

A lot of children had gathered themselves, all in the happy mood.

Otto had them all go ahead, then he came, and finally had to get the
puss, so nobody could take him in the back.

It had set up Otto, he could rely to always check from time to time with a glance if Pussy keeping
up.
Now when everything went so well remembered one of the boys, now
would have to append one of the whole train, bind namely a carriage
to the other. So wanted to go down one, which would have to In the
moonlight a very special fun. Under heavy noise and general support
we went to work immediately.

Pussy for petrol was the trip but a
little dangerous, because sometimes there was this one great upheaval
of all slides and children. He could for the little creature not risk
it. Now it started, and the long, long chain whipped down the smooth
path.

Otto suddenly heard a terrible cry, and he knew the voice.
It was Pussy Voice. What had happened? Otto had no choice, he had
the desire to make the end game, how great was his terror. The observer will further convince
himself that the acceleration of the body towards the floor of the chest is always of the same
magnitude, whatever kind of body he may happen to use for the experiment.

Relying on his knowledge of the gravitational field (as it was discussed in the preceding section),
the man in the chest will thus come to the conclusion that he and the chest are in a gravitational
field which is constant with regard to time. Of course he will be puzzled for a moment as to
why the chest does not fall in this gravitational field. just then, however, he discovers the
hook in the middle of the lid of the chest and the rope which is attached to it, and he consequently
comes to the conclusion that the chest is suspended at rest in the gravitational field.

Ought we to smile at the man and say that he errs in his conclusion ? I do not believe we ought
to if we wish to remain consistent ; we must rather admit that his mode of grasping the situation
violates neither reason nor known mechanical laws. Even though it is being accelerated with
respect to the "Galileian space" first considered, we can nevertheless regard the chest as
being at rest. We have thus good grounds for extending the principle of relativity to include
bodies of reference which are accelerated with respect to each other, and as a result we have
gained a powerful argument for a generalised postulate of relativity.

We must note carefully that the possibility of this mode of interpretation rests on the fundamental
property of the gravitational field of giving all bodies the same acceleration, or, what comes
to the same thing, on the law of the equality of inertial and gravitational mass. If this natural
law did not exist, the man in the accelerated chest would not be able to interpret the behaviour
of the bodies around him on the supposition of a gravitational field, and he would not be justified
on the grounds of experience in supposing his reference-body to be " at rest."

Suppose that the man in the chest fixes a rope to the inner side of the lid, and that he attaches
a body to the free end of the rope. The result of this will be to strech the rope so that it
will hang " vertically " downwards. If we ask for an opinion of the cause of tension in the
rope, the man in the chest will say: "The suspended body experiences a downward force in the
gravitational field, and this is neutralised by the tension of the rope ; what determines the
magnitude of the tension of the rope is the gravitational mass of the suspended body." On the
other hand, an observer who is poised freely in space will interpret the condition of things
thus : " The rope must perforce take part in the accelerated motion of the chest, and it transmits
this motion to the body attached to it. The tension of the rope is just large enough to effect
the acceleration of the body. That which determines the magnitude of the tension of the rope
is the inertial mass of the body." Guided by this example, we see that our extension of the
principle of relativity implies the necessity of the law of the equality of inertial and gravitational
mass. Thus we have obtained a physical interpretation of this law. Unadorned was all him, him and the web behind him.
Unverwöhnt unexpected and differs, he had the power to overcome suffering and be seen. Is going
through it was often as toxic smoke. He had resisted against all forms of oppression, any kind
of humiliating experience. He had spread to his elbows and iron bars made to avoid being crushed
to pulp. Hinaufgeklommen on the slippery blocks of the giant building, of which crashed halfway
or Viertelweg the weaklings and over greedy were to get down to smash the skull, he had conquered
his place with a cool head, the duty which he chose to vote for him, steadfast and obedient to
fate knowing as only those who are the heartbeat, the heartbeat of the century and of the people.
 This is by no means true for all gravitational fields, but only for those of quite special
form. It is, for instance, impossible to choose a body of reference such that, as judged from
it, the gravitational field of the earth (in its entirety) vanishes.

We can now appreciate why that argument is not convincing, which we brought forward against
the general principle of relativity at theend of Section 18. It is certainly true that the
observer in the railway carriage experiences a jerk forwards as a result of the application
of the brake, and that he recognises, in this the non-uniformity of motion (retardation) of
the carriage. But he is compelled by nobody to refer this jerk to a " real " acceleration (retardation)
of the carriage. He might also interpret his experience thus: " My body of reference (the carriage)
remains permanently at rest. With reference to it, however, there exists (during the period
of application of the brakes) a gravitational field which is directed forwards and which is
variable with respect to time. Under the influence of this field, the embankment together with
the earth moves non-uniformly in such a manner that their original velocity in the backwards
direction is continuously reduced."

We have already stated several times that classical mechanics starts out from the following
law: Material particles sufficiently far removed from other material particles continue to
move uniformly in a straight line or continue in a state of rest. We have also repeatedly emphasised
that this fundamental law can only be valid for bodies of reference K which possess certain
unique states of motion, and which are in uniform translational motion relative to each other.
Relative to other reference-bodies K the law is not valid. Both in classical mechanics and
in the special theory of relativity we therefore differentiate between reference-bodies K relative
to which the recognised " laws of nature " can be said to hold, and reference-bodies K relative
to which these laws do not hold.

But no person whose mode of thought is logical can rest satisfied with this condition of things.
He asks : " How does it come that certain reference-bodies (or their states of motion) are
given priority over other reference-bodies (or their states of motion) ? What is the reason
for this Preference? In order to show clearly what I mean by this question, I shall make use
of a comparison.

I am standing in front of a gas range. Standing alongside of each other on the range are two
pans so much alike that one may be mistaken for the other. Both are half full of water. I notice
that steam is being emitted continuously from the one pan, but not from the other. I am surprised
at this, even if I have never seen either a gas range or a pan before. But if I now notice
a luminous something of bluish colour under the first pan but not under the other, I cease
to be astonished, even if I have never before seen a gas flame. For I can only say that this
bluish something will cause the emission of the steam, or at least possibly it may do so. If,
however, I notice the bluish something in neither case, and if I observe that the one continuously
emits steam whilst the other does not, then I shall remain astonished and dissatisfied until
I have discovered some circumstance to which I can attribute the different behaviour of the
two pans.

Analogously, I seek in vain for a real something in classical mechanics (or in the special
theory of relativity) to which I can attribute the different behaviour of bodies considered
with respect to the reference systems K and K1.*  Newton saw this objection and attempted to
invalidate it, but without success. But E. Mach recognsed it most clearly of all, and because
of this objection he claimed that mechanics must be placed on a new basis. It can only be got
rid of by means of a physics which is conformable to the general principle of relativity, since
the equations of such a theory hold for every body of reference, whatever may be its state
of motion.

  Notes

*) The objection is of importance more especially when the state of motion of the reference-body
is of such a nature that it does not require any external agency for its maintenance, e.g.
in the case when the reference-body is rotating uniformly.

A FEW INFERENCES FROM THE GENERAL PRINCIPLE OF RELATIVITY

The considerations of Section 20 show that the general principle of relativity puts us in a
position to derive properties of the gravitational field in a purely theoretical manner. Let
us suppose, for instance, that we know the space-time " course " for any natural process whatsoever,
as regards the manner in which it takes place in the Galileian domain relative to a Galileian
body of reference K. By means of purely theoretical operations (i.e. simply by calculation)
we are then able to find how this known natural process appears, as seen from a reference-body
K1 which is accelerated relatively to K. But since a gravitational field exists with respect
to this new body of reference K1, our consideration also teaches us how the gravitational field
influences the process studied.

For example, we learn that a body which is in a state of uniform rectilinear motion with respect
to K (in accordance with the law of Galilei) is executing an accelerated and in general curvilinear
motion with respect to the accelerated reference-body K1 (chest). This acceleration or curvature
corresponds to the influence on the moving body of the gravitational field prevailing relatively
to K. It is known that a gravitational field influences the movement of bodies in this way,
so that our consideration supplies us with nothing essentially new.

However, we obtain a new result of fundamental importance when we carry out the analogous consideration
for a ray of light. With respect to the Galileian reference-body K, such a ray of light is
transmitted rectilinearly with the velocity c. It can easily be shown that the path of the
same ray of light is no longer a straight line when we consider it with reference to the accelerated
chest (reference-body K1). From this we conclude, that, in general, rays of light are propagated
curvilinearly in gravitational fields. In two respects this result is of great importance.

In the first place, it can be compared with the reality. The damage was in fact only slightly, and the two Henkel and part
of the upper rim was broken off, was also in the bulge one round hole. They saw him in surprise;
Ferry Sponeck nodded eagerly and assured, "Yes, it he understands, he has trapped a Sevreschale
me once, he is at all a thousand artists. " The zealous advocacy aroused mirth, also called for self-Sparre,
Niklas was brought after a while a pot of glue, Sparre grabbed the vase along with the shards
in a cloth and went to his room.

He had by the end of its beginning no clear idea. He was in the Dress of a parabola Engulfed
joke, a message of uncertain scope and indefinite Content. As he placed them together with care
the cracks, with small pieces skillful Fits hand, he smiled often. When he was finished after two
hours of work, he went to Window; Ungnad room was opposite to his own oblique, as he knew.
He saw light at him. Then he took the vase carefully in the hand, the work reviewed again, convinced
himself of the durability of the composite parts and left the room.

       * * * * *

Erasmus went on.

"What do you want?" He stammered, "what does this mean?" He stared at the clay Vessel.

Sparre put the vase on the table. "If one morning abfeilt the fault lines, the damage hardly
be noticeable, "he said.

"But what does it mean then?" Muttered Erasmus. He had risen, stood frosty frowning, repellent.

"I
had the impression that you had gone near the little accident," said Sparre, "I hardly know myself
why I felt obliged to make amends again. Maybe wanted I also create an unpleasantness happened
to me from the world. Something like that is disturbing, if it also
affects my balance can not.

Where the blow is not true, no Wound.

Since you have frowned upon me as a doctor for a man, I have satisfied
myself, doctor a thing to be.

The thing is healed fairly well, as you see. "

The voice sounded almost hollow, dragging in their Baßtiefe.

"I do not understand," exclaimed Erasmus, "You want to make fun of me, I think ..."

Sparre looked down. "Strange that you do not understand," he said as if speaking to himself.
"Are you for that no hint that I hate, the man whom you hate or believe to have that man of your
departure and your horror, you the undeserved honor of a decisive Function to assign that this
same man Broken something for you has again made whole? "

Erasmus hesitated. Reddened with indignation to his forehead. made "for me forever? For me? Really, They
allow themselves undue fun, Doctor Sparre ... "

Sparre beat slowly to the gaze. "I would like to speak with you in other things, clay, Graf
Ungnad, "he said behavior. "They go wrong in substance. Its premises are incorrect. I saw a hardship
as the pitcher fell down there, I saw a lot of Shattered lie.

Was the boy really guilty, and his playing with the animal? But he felt guilty and when you
took his hand, I felt as if you were partly responsible for his debt
felt.

But you have not yet dared to stand up for him. What else is on this ancient Kram, Count Ungnad? If
he throws me against the Aufräumweib on the trash, I do not look even after that point. It
is also not my conviction that one again Fragmented to kitten. In this case, I have decided to deny
the conviction. I thought it was good, it was useful. I thought I could show you that something.
Understand Me still not? "

In fact, Erasmus did not understand. His face was expressionless and fierce Discomfort. The lower
lip juts, the palm rubbed against the back of the chair.

"So I want to be clear," Sparre went away a little depressed because he had more fluid communication
expected, "I've been able to something about me, what my nature and
life direction diametrically is contrary. I tried something for which
I've never been able to win, the mentally to bridge divorced, that
which is strictly and absolutely transcendent for me to approach me.
Is it hopeless? This clay vase, I put forth as a milestone on which
we can take you from your side, I from mine. It is a moment that never
comes again can never return. The truth that drives me now, and satisfied,
surely only a single flame. Maybe something is in me of the mysterious
transformation of instinct of insects. Maybe I can speed up the analog
process in you. Deprive you not. Rebel against the passage of the
stars is no heroism, the inevitable curse not piety. Appendix III.)

**) This follows from a generalisation of the discussion in Section 20

BEHAVIOUR OF CLOCKS AND MEASURING-RODS ON A ROTATING BODY OF REFERENCE

Hitherto I have purposely refrained from speaking about the physical interpretation of space-
and time-data in the case of the general theory of relativity. As a consequence, I am guilty
of a certain slovenliness of treatment, which, as we know from the special theory of relativity,
is far from being unimportant and pardonable. It is now high time that we remedy this defect;
but I would mention at the outset, that this matter lays no small claims on the patience and
on the power of abstraction of the reader.

We start off again from quite special cases, which we have frequently used before. Let us consider
a space time domain in which no gravitational field exists relative to a reference-body K whose
state of motion has been suitably chosen. K is then a Galileian reference-body as regards the
domain considered, and the results of the special theory of relativity hold relative to K.
Let us supposse the same domain referred to a second body of reference K1, which is rotating
uniformly with respect to K. In order to fix our ideas, we shall imagine K1 to be in the form
of a plane circular disc, which rotates uniformly in its own plane about its centre. An observer
who is sitting eccentrically on the disc K1 is sensible of a force which acts outwards in a
radial direction, and which would be interpreted as an effect of inertia (centrifugal force)
by an observer who was at rest with respect to the original reference-body K. But the observer
on the disc may regard his disc as a reference-body which is " at rest " ; on the basis of
the general principle of relativity he is justified in doing this. The force acting on himself,
and in fact on all other bodies which are at rest relative to the disc, he regards as the effect
of a gravitational field. Nevertheless, the space-distribution of this gravitational field
is of a kind that would not be possible on Newton's theory of gravitation.* But since the observer
believes in the general theory of relativity, this does not disturb him; he is quite in the
right when he believes that a general law of gravitation can be formulated- a law which not
only explains the motion of the stars correctly, but also the field of force experienced by
himself.

The observer performs experiments on his circular disc with clocks and measuring-rods. In doing
so, it is his intention to arrive at exact definitions for the signification of time- and space-data
with reference to the circular disc K1, these definitions being based on his observations.
What will be his experience in this enterprise ?

To start with, he places one of two identically constructed clocks at the centre of the circular
disc, and the other on the edge of the disc, so that they are at rest relative to it. We now
ask ourselves whether both clocks go at the same rate from the standpoint of the non-rotating
Galileian reference-body K. As judged from this body, the clock at the centre of the disc has
no velocity, whereas the clock at the edge of the disc is in motion relative to K in consequence
of the rotation. According to a result obtained in Section 12, it follows that the latter clock
goes at a rate permanently slower than that of the clock at the centre of the circular disc,
i.e. as observed from K. It is obvious that the same effect would be noted by an observer whom
we will imagine sitting alongside his clock at the centre of the circular disc. Thus on our
circular disc, or, to make the case more general, in every gravitational field, a clock will
go more quickly or less quickly, according to the position in which the clock is situated (at
rest). For this reason it is not possible to obtain a reasonable definition of time with the
aid of clocks which are arranged at rest with respect to the body of reference. A similar difficulty
presents itself when we attempt to apply our earlier definition of simultaneity in such a case,
but I do not wish to go any farther into this question.

Moreover, at this stage the definition of the space co-ordinates also presents insurmountable
difficulties. If the observer applies his standard measuring-rod (a rod which is short as compared
with the radius of the disc) tangentially to the edge of the disc, then, as judged from the
Galileian system, the length of this rod will be less than I, since, according to Section 12,
moving bodies suffer a shortening in the direction of the motion. On the other hand, the measaring-rod
will not experience a shortening in length, as judged from K, if it is applied to the disc
in the direction of the radius. If, then, the observer first measures the circumference of
the disc with his measuring-rod and then the diameter of the disc, on dividing the one by the
other, he will not obtain as quotient the familiar number p = 3.14 . . ., but a larger number,[4]**
whereas of course, for a disc which is at rest with respect to K, this operation would yield
p exactly. This proves that the propositions of Euclidean geometry cannot hold exactly on the
rotating disc, nor in general in a gravitational field, at least if we attribute the length
I to the rod in all positions and in every orientation. Hence the idea of a straight line also
loses its meaning. We are therefore not in a position to define exactly the co-ordinates x,
y, z relative to the disc by means of the method used in discussing the special theory, and
as long as the co- ordinates and times of events have not been defined, we cannot assign an
exact meaning to the natural laws in which these occur.

Thus all our previous conclusions based on general relativity would appear to be called in
question. In reality we must make a subtle detour in order to be able to apply the postulate
of general relativity exactly. I shall prepare the reader for this in the following paragraphs.

  Notes

*) The field disappears at the centre of the disc and increases proportionally to the distance
from the centre as we proceed outwards.

**) Throughout this consideration we have to use the Galileian (non-rotating) system K as reference-body,
since we may only assume the validity of the results of the special theory of relativity relative
to K (relative to K1 a gravitational field prevails).

EUCLIDEAN AND NON-EUCLIDEAN CONTINUUM

The surface of a marble table is spread out in front of me. I can get from any one point on
this table to any other point by passing continuously from one point to a " neighbouring "
one, and repeating this process a (large) number of times, or, in other words, by going from
point to point without executing "jumps." I am sure the reader will appreciate with sufficient
clearness what I mean here by " neighbouring " and by " jumps " (if he is not too pedantic).
We express this property of the surface by describing the latter as a continuum.

Let us now imagine that a large number of little rods of equal length have been made, their
lengths being small compared with the dimensions of the marble slab. When I say they are of
equal length, I mean that one can be laid on any other without the ends overlapping. We next
lay four of these little rods on the marble slab so that they constitute a quadrilateral figure
(a square), the diagonals of which are equally long. To ensure the equality of the diagonals,
we make use of a little testing-rod. To this square we add similar ones, each of which has
one rod in common with the first. We proceed in like manner with each of these squares until
finally the whole marble slab is laid out with squares. The arrangement is such, that each
side of a square belongs to two squares and each corner to four squares.

It is a veritable wonder that we can carry out this business without getting into the greatest
difficulties. We only need to think of the following. If at any moment three squares meet at
a corner, then two sides of the fourth square are already laid, and, as a consequence, the
arrangement of the remaining two sides of the square is already completely determined. But
I am now no longer able to adjust the quadrilateral so that its diagonals may be equal. If
they are equal of their own accord, then this is an especial favour of the marble slab and
of the little rods, about which I can only be thankfully surprised. We must experience many
such surprises if the construction is to be successful.

If everything has really gone smoothly, then I say that the points of the marble slab constitute
a Euclidean continuum with respect to the little rod, which has been used as a " distance "
(line-interval). By choosing one corner of a square as " origin" I can characterise every other
corner of a square with reference to this origin by means of two numbers. I only need state
how many rods I must pass over when, starting from the origin, I proceed towards the " right
" and then " upwards," in order to arrive at the corner of the square under consideration.
These two numbers are then the " Cartesian co-ordinates " of this corner with reference to
the " Cartesian co-ordinate system" which is determined by the arrangement of little rods.

By making use of the following modification of this abstract experiment, we recognise that
there must also be cases in which the experiment would be unsuccessful. We shall suppose that
the rods " expand " by in amount proportional to the increase of temperature. We heat the central
part of the marble slab, but not the periphery, in which case two of our little rods can still
be brought into coincidence at every position on the table. But our construction of squares
must necessarily come into disorder during the heating, because the little rods on the central
region of the table expand, whereas those on the outer part do not.

With reference to our little rods -- defined as unit lengths -- the marble slab is no longer
a Euclidean continuum, and we are also no longer in the position of defining Cartesian co-ordinates
directly with their aid, since the above construction can no longer be carried out. But since
there are other things which are not influenced in a similar manner to the little rods (or
perhaps not at all) by the temperature of the table, it is possible quite naturally to maintain
the point of view that the marble slab is a " Euclidean continuum." This can be done in a satisfactory
manner by making a more subtle stipulation about the measurement or the comparison of lengths.

But if rods of every kind (i.e. of every material) were to behave in the same way as regards
the influence of temperature when they are on the variably heated marble slab, and if we had
no other means of detecting the effect of temperature than the geometrical behaviour of our
rods in experiments analogous to the one described above, then our best plan would be to assign
the distance one to two points on the slab, provided that the ends of one of our rods could
be made to coincide with these two points ; for how else should we define the distance without
our proceeding being in the highest measure grossly arbitrary ? The method of Cartesian coordinates
must then be discarded, and replaced by another which does not assume the validity of Euclidean
geometry for rigid bodies.*  The reader will notice that the situation depicted here corresponds
to the one brought about by the general postitlate of relativity (Section 23).

  Notes

*) Mathematicians have been confronted with our problem in the following form. If we are given
a surface (e.g. an ellipsoid) in Euclidean three-dimensional space, then there exists for this
surface a two-dimensional geometry, just as much as for a plane surface. Gauss undertook the
task of treating this two-dimensional geometry from first principles, without making use of
the fact that the surface belongs to a Euclidean continuum of three dimensions. If we imagine
constructions to be made with rigid rods in the surface (similar to that above with the marble
slab), we should find that different laws hold for these from those resulting on the basis
of Euclidean plane geometry. The surface is not a Euclidean continuum with respect to the rods,
and we cannot define Cartesian co-ordinates in the surface. Gauss indicated the principles
according to which we can treat the geometrical relationships in the surface, and thus pointed
out the way to the method of Riemman of treating multi-dimensional, non-Euclidean continuum.
Thus it is that mathematicians long ago solved the formal problems to which we are led by the
general postulate of relativity.

GAUSSIAN CO-ORDINATES

According to Gauss, this combined analytical and geometrical mode of handling the problem can
be arrived at in the following way. We imagine a system of arbitrary curves (see Fig. 4) drawn
on the surface of the table. These we designate as u-curves, and we indicate each of them by
means of a number. The Curves u= 1, u= 2 and u= 3 are drawn in the diagram. Between the curves
u= 1 and u= 2 we must imagine an infinitely large number to be drawn, all of which correspond
to real numbers lying between 1 and 2. fig. 04 We have then a system of u-curves, and this
"infinitely dense" system covers the whole surface of the table. These u-curves must not intersect
each other, and through each point of the surface one and only one curve must pass. Thus a
perfectly definite value of u belongs to every point on the surface of the marble slab. In
like manner we imagine a system of v-curves drawn on the surface. These satisfy the same conditions
as the u-curves, they are provided with numbers in a corresponding manner, and they may likewise
be of arbitrary shape. It follows that a value of u and a value of v belong to every point
on the surface of the table. We call these two numbers the co-ordinates of the surface of the
table (Gaussian co-ordinates). For example, the point P in the diagram has the Gaussian co-ordinates
u= 3, v= 1. Two neighbouring points P and P1 on the surface then correspond to the co-ordinates

                       P:       u,v

                       P1:     u + du, v + dv,

where du and dv signify very small numbers. In a similar manner we may indicate the distance
(line-interval) between P and P1, as measured with a little rod, by means of the very small
number ds. Then according to Gauss we have

                ds2 = g[11]du2 + 2g[12]dudv = g[22]dv2

where g[11], g[12], g[22], are magnitudes which depend in a perfectly definite way on u and
v. The magnitudes g[11], g[12] and g[22], determine the behaviour of the rods relative to the
u-curves and v-curves, and thus also relative to the surface of the table. For the case in
which the points of the surface considered form a Euclidean continuum with reference to the
measuring-rods, but only in this case, it is possible to draw the u-curves and v-curves and
to attach numbers to them, in such a manner, that we simply have :

                           ds2 = du2 + dv2

Under these conditions, the u-curves and v-curves are straight lines in the sense of Euclidean
geometry, and they are perpendicular to each other. Here the Gaussian coordinates are samply
Cartesian ones. It is clear that Gauss co-ordinates are nothing more than an association of
two sets of numbers with the points of the surface considered, of such a nature that numerical
values differing very slightly from each other are associated with neighbouring points " in space."

So far, these considerations hold for a continuum of two dimensions. But the Gaussian method
can be applied also to a continuum of three, four or more dimensions. If, for instance, a continuum
of four dimensions be supposed available, we may represent it in the following way. With every
point of the continuum, we associate arbitrarily four numbers, x[1], x[2], x[3], x[4], which
are known as " co-ordinates." Adjacent points correspond to adjacent values of the coordinates.
If a distance ds is associated with the adjacent points P and P1, this distance being measurable
and well defined from a physical point of view, then the following formula holds:

ds2 = g[11]dx[1]^2 + 2g[12]dx[1]dx[2] . . . . g[44]dx[4]^2,

where the magnitudes g[11], etc., have values which vary with the position in the continuum.
Only when the continuum is a Euclidean one is it possible to associate the co-ordinates x[1]
. . x[4]. with the points of the continuum so that we have simply

ds2 = dx[1]^2 + dx[2]^2 + dx[3]^2 + dx[4]^2.

In this case relations hold in the four-dimensional continuum which are analogous to those
holding in our three-dimensional measurements.

However, the Gauss treatment for ds2 which we have given above is not always possible. It is
only possible when sufficiently small regions of the continuum under consideration may be regarded
as Euclidean continua. For example, this obviously holds in the case of the marble slab of
the table and local variation of temperature. The temperature is practically constant for a
small part of the slab, and thus the geometrical behaviour of the rods is almost as it ought
to be according to the rules of Euclidean geometry. Hence the imperfections of the construction
of squares in the previous section do not show themselves clearly until this construction is
extended over a considerable portion of the surface of the table.

We can sum this up as follows: Gauss invented a method for the mathematical treatment of continua
in general, in which " size-relations " (" distances " between neighbouring points) are defined.
To every point of a continuum are assigned as many numbers (Gaussian coordinates) as the continuum
has dimensions. This is done in such a way, that only one meaning can be attached to the assignment,
and that numbers (Gaussian coordinates) which differ by an indefinitely small amount are assigned
to adjacent points. The Gaussian coordinate system is a logical generalisation of the Cartesian
co-ordinate system. It is also applicable to non-Euclidean continua, but only when, with respect
to the defined "size" or "distance," small parts of the continuum under consideration behave
more nearly like a Euclidean system, the smaller the part of the continuum under our notice.
In accordance with the special theory of relativity, certain co-ordinate systems are given
preference for the description of the four-dimensional, space-time continuum. We called these
" Galileian co-ordinate systems." For these systems, the four co-ordinates x, y, z, t, which
determine an event or -- in other words, a point of the four-dimensional continuum -- are defined
physically in a simple manner, as set forth in detail in the first part of this book. For the
transition from one Galileian system to another, which is moving uniformly with reference to
the first, the equations of the Lorentz transformation are valid. These last form the basis
for the derivation of deductions from the special theory of relativity, and in themselves they
are nothing more than the expression of the universal validity of the law of transmission of
light for all Galileian systems of reference.

Minkowski found that the Lorentz transformations satisfy the following simple conditions. Let
us consider two neighbouring events, the relative position of which in the four-dimensional
continuum is given with respect to a Galileian reference-body K by the space co-ordinate differences
dx, dy, dz and the time-difference dt. With reference to a second Galileian system we shall
suppose that the corresponding differences for these two events are dx1, dy1, dz1, dt1. Then
these magnitudes always fulfil the condition*

     dx2 + dy2 + dz2 - c^2dt2 = dx1 2 + dy1 2 + dz1 2 - c^2dt1 2.

The validity of the Lorentz transformation follows from this condition. We can express this
as follows: The magnitude

                   ds2 = dx2 + dy2 + dz2 - c^2dt2,

which belongs to two adjacent points of the four-dimensional space-time continuum, has the
same value for all selected (Galileian) reference-bodies. We call the magnitude ds the " distance
" apart of the two events or four-dimensional points.

Thus, if we choose as time-variable the imaginary variable sq. rt. -I . ct instead of the real
quantity t, we can regard the space-time contintium -- accordance with the special theory of
relativity -- as a ", Euclidean " four-dimensional continuum, a result which follows from the
considerations of the preceding section.

  Notes

*) Cf. Appendixes I and 2. The relations which are derived there for the co-ordlnates themselves
are valid also for co-ordinate differences, and thus also for co-ordinate differentials (indefinitely
small differences).

THE SPACE-TIME CONTINUUM OF THE GENERAL THEORY OF REALTIIVTY IS NOT A ECULIDEAN CONTINUUM

In the first part of this book we were able to make use of space-time co-ordinates which allowed
of a simple and direct physical interpretation, and which, according to Section 26, can be
regarded as four-dimensional Cartesian co-ordinates. This was possible on the basis of the
law of the constancy of the velocity of tight. But according to Section 21 the general theory
of relativity cannot retain this law. On the contrary, we arrived at the result that according
to this latter theory the velocity of light must always depend on the co-ordinates when a gravitational
field is present. In connection with a specific illustration in Section 23, we found that the
presence of a gravitational field invalidates the definition of the coordinates and the ifine,
which led us to our objective in the special theory of relativity.

In view of the resuIts of these considerations we are led to the conviction that, according
to the general principle of relativity, the space-time continuum cannot be regarded as a Euclidean
one, but that here we have the general case, corresponding to the marble slab with local variations
of temperature, and with which we made acquaintance as an example of a two-dimensional continuum.
Just as it was there impossible to construct a Cartesian co-ordinate system from equal rods,
so here it is impossible to build up a system (reference-body) from rigid bodies and clocks,
which shall be of such a nature that measuring-rods and clocks, arranged rigidly with respect
to one another, shaIll indicate position and time directly. Such was the essence of the difficulty
with which we were confronted in Section 23.

But the considerations of Sections 25 and 26 show us the way to surmount this difficulty. We
refer the fourdimensional space-time continuum in an arbitrary manner to Gauss co-ordinates.
We assign to every point of the continuum (event) four numbers, x[1], x[2], x[3], x[4] (co-ordinates),
which have not the least direct physical significance, but only serve the purpose of numbering
the points of the continuum in a definite but arbitrary manner. This arrangement does not even
need to be of such a kind that we must regard x[1], x[2], x[3], as "space" co-ordinates and
x[4], as a " time " co-ordinate.

The reader may think that such a description of the world would be quite inadequate. What does
it mean to assign to an event the particular co-ordinates x[1], x[2], x[3], x[4], if in themselves
these co-ordinates have no significance ? More careful consideration shows, however, that this
anxiety is unfounded. Let us consider, for instance, a material point with any kind of motion.
If this point had only a momentary existence without duration, then it would to described in
space-time by a single system of values x[1], x[2], x[3], x[4]. Thus its permanent existence
must be characterised by an infinitely large number of such systems of values, the co-ordinate
values of which are so close together as to give continuity; corresponding to the material
point, we thus have a (uni-dimensional) line in the four-dimensional continuum. In the same
way, any such lines in our continuum correspond to many points in motion. The thick mass of hair to the inside of this latter strand of him
to the middle line sufficiently, has been the most remarkable fate. You can turn not follow the
head to the left, it is forced, a softly retracting bow a piece of garland to form, which
crosses the inner right hair masses. You Namely held by the pressure of the right index finger,
although the left of the Center line has sprung and is actually the bulk of the left half
beard. The beard seems so in its main body thrown to the right, although the head sharply to
the is left turned. At the point where the right index finger presses himself, has something
like a swirl of hair formed, where strands are left over from those of the right, both compressed
by the violent finger. first break beyond this point deflected from its direction masses of
hair out free to run vertically down now until the ends of the rest in her lap, opened the left
hand are taken.

I am under no illusions about the intelligibility of my description and dare me no judgments
about whether we really the artist, the resolution of that node in the beard made easy. But on
this question of time, the fact remains that the pressure of the index finger of his right hand
primarily affects the hair strands left half beard, and that is retained by the inter-action
of the beard, the turn of the join head and look to the left. Now one may ask what this arrangement
does that mean and what motives it owes its existence. If it really considerations of Alignment
and spacing were that led the artist to the down flowing Bart mass of looking to the left to
right across Moses emphasized how strangely inappropriate For this purpose, the pressure appears
as a means of one finger? And who, for some reason has urged his beard on the other side would then
fall out by the pressure a finger to fix half a beard on the other? Perhaps they mean basically
minor features not break, and we head over things that the artist were indifferent?

Let us continue on the assumption that these details have meaning. There are then a solution that
eliminates the difficulties and we anticipate a new meaning can be.

If located on the left of the figure of Moses beard strands under the pressure of the right index
finger, then this can perhaps than the rest of a relationship between the right hand and the Bart
left half understand what in an earlier moment than that shown a far was more intimate. The right
hand may have had his beard was handled far more energetically to to the left edge of the same
advanced, and when she retired in the attitude which we now see the statue, followed her to a
part of the beard and now creates a testament to the movement that is expired. The Bartguirlande
would be the track of this by hand distance traveled.

So we would have opened up a backward movement of the right hand. One assumption compels the
rest of us how to unavoidable.

Our imagination completes the process by which the by Bart testified track movement is a piece,
and takes us back to the informal view which the rest of the people of Moses by the noise and
the sight of the golden calf scare leaves. He sat there quietly, his head down with the flowing beard,
facing forward, the hand probably had nothing to do with the beard. Since the sound strikes his ear,
he turns Head and looking towards the direction from which comes the problem beheld the scene
and sees them. Now grab destroy him anger and indignation, he would jump up and punish the wicked.
The anger that is white or removed from its object, is aimed meanwhile making a gesture to his
own body. The impatient, ready to act hand reaches forward into the beard, which the turn of the
head was pressed followed him with an iron grip between thumb and palm combining with the fingers,
a gesture of a force and vehemence that to other may recall images of Michelangelo. But then occurs,
we do not yet know how or why, incorporation, the pre-stretched, is in his beard, sunken hand retreated
hastily, you handle releases the beard, fingers loose from him, but they were so deep in him buried,
that after their withdrawal from a powerful strain of the left right , Where he was dragging under
the pressure of the one, the longest and topmost finger right beard lichen must overlap. And
this new position, which only caused by the discharge from her previous understandable, is
now held.

It is time to remember us. We have assumed that the right hand first outside the Beard, was that
she was then in a moment of high emotional tension stretched across
to the left to pack his beard, and that she finally went back, taking
a part of the beard took.

We have connected with this right hand, as if we could freely dispose of them. But we can do
this? Is that hand for free? Did not she keep the sacred tablets to wear or her mimic such excursions
are not prohibited by their important task? And again, what they should arrange for the return
movement, if it followed a strong motive had to leave their initial position?

These are really new difficulties. However, the right hand is one of the panels. We can provide not
deny that we lack a motive which the right hand could lead to the withdrawal developed. But how
about if the two difficulties could solve each other and only then
a gap would arise without obvious process?

If just something that happens at the tables, we cleared up the movements of the hand?

On these boards is a lot to notice what so far has not found worthy of observation [10]. It was said:
The hand is based on the tables or, the hand supporting the panels. We see without further notice
the two rectangular panels are each other down on the edge.

Looking more closely, we find that the lower edge of the panels is formed differently than the upper,
inclined obliquely forward. This upper limit is straightforward, but the lower shows in its
front portion a head like a horn, and especially with the lead touch the boards the stone seat.
What can this be important details, which incidentally at a large plaster cast in the collection
of the Vienna Academy of Fine Arts some substance play it? There is little doubt that this horn
of the font to the top designed to recognize the signs. Only the upper edge of such panels usually
rounded rectangular or wander out to be. The panels are therefore here on the head. Now this is
a strange Treatment as sacred objects. Are you upside down and are almost on a Tip balanced. What
is the formal moment can assist in this design? Or should also have been indifferent to this
detail to the artist?

[10] See the detailed figure D.

As is now a considers that the boards by a previous motion come to
this position are that this movement was dependent on the developed
locomotion the right hand, and that in turn forced them to hand their
subsequent return movement added.

  The operations on the hand and sit at the tables together into the
following unit: Initially, when the figure was sitting alone, they
helped erect the panels under the right arm.

The right hand grasped the bottom edges and found a support in the forward-looking Advantage.
This facilitation of wearing explains readily why the tables reversed were held. Then came the moment
when the peace was disturbed by the noise. Moses turned down his head, and when he had looked upon
the scene, the foot was to spring up willing to let go of her hand on the handle bars and went
to the left and the top of the beard, how to operate their fury on his body. The tables were now
the pressure of the arm confided that they should press on the chest wall. But this fixation was
not sufficient they began to slide forward and down, which was directed previously held top
horizontal edge forward and backward, deprived of its support with its lower edge was approaching
front tip of the stone seat. A moment more and the tables would have to the new turn found support
point must be reached by early upper edge of the first floor and crash into him. To prevent this,
and drives back the right hand, and dismiss the Bart, a part of which is pulled along without
purpose achieved, nor the edge of the panels and it is based near its rear, now become the top
corner. Shall initiate the strange forced translucent ensemble of beard, hand, and on the top pair
from the panel asked a passionate movement of the hand and their well-justified implications.
If you want the make traces of the previous storm motion reversed, it must be the top front
corner lift the panels and slide back into the image plane, so that the front lower corner
(with the Projection) from the stone seat, lower the hand and under the now horizontal position
lower panel edge lead.

I have let me make three drawings by an artist to illustrate what my description should. The
third is the same statue again, as we see it, the other two are the precursors, which my interpretation
postulates, the first of the rest, the second the highest voltage, the willingness to spring
up, for the avoidance of hand by the Panels and the beginning of sliding down it. Now it is
remarkable how the two supplemented by my artist representations inaccurate descriptions of the
earlier authors honor him.

A contemporary of Michelangelo, Condivi, said: "Moses, the Duke and Captain the Hebrews, is sitting in
the position of a meaningful manner, under the right arm holds the tablets and supports the
chin with the left hand (!), as one of the tired and full of worry. "The Now is the statue not
to see Michelangelo's, but it is consistent with the assumption that the first drawing is based.
W. Lübke had written, like other observers, "Shaken he engages with his right hand in the gorgeous,
flowing beard ... "Now this is inaccurate if it refers to the figure of the statue hits, but for
our second drawing. Justi and Knapp have, as mentioned, saw that the panels in the sliding down
and in danger break up and float. They had to be corrected by Thode that the tablets by the right hand were
firmly fixed, but they were right, if not the statue, but our middle stages seem to describe.
One might almost think these authors would have of the facial image of the statue had unwittingly
freed and an analysis of the movement motifs started the same, by which they were led to the same requirements
as we have set up deliberate and explicit.

3.

If I'm not mistaken, it will be now allowed us to reap the fruits of our effort. We have heard many
who were under the impression the statue, the interpretation imposed is that it sets Moses under
the influence of vision that his people had fallen off and dancing to a graven image. But this interpretation
had to be abandoned because it was continued in the expectation that he would jump up in the
next moment, smashing the tablets and the work revenge accomplish.

This, however, disagreed with the determination of the statue as
a piece of the grave monument Julius II in addition to three or five
other seated figures.

We must now abandoned this Interpretation resume, as our Moses will not jump up and the tables
not to hurl. What we see in him is not the prelude to a violent action, but the residue of a past movement:
He wanted to jump up in a fit of anger, Revenge, forget the boards, but he has overcome the temptation,
he is now To sit remain subdued anger mixed with contempt in pain. He is also the Boards do not throw
away that they shatter on the stone, for because of them he has his Anger conquered, mastered
his passion to her rescue. When he's passionate Outrage left, he had to ignore the signs, the hand that
she was wearing, pull on them. Since they began herabzugleiten came to break in danger. That
reminded him. He thought his mission and renounced for them to satisfy his emotion. His hand
went back and rescued the sinking plates, could still fall before them. remained in this position
persevering, and so did Michelangelo depicted him as a guardian of the tomb.

A three-fold stratification is expressed in his piece in a vertical direction. In the mines face
reflects the emotions that have become the dominant, in the middle the figure, the symbol
of the oppressed visible movement, the foot still shows the position the proposed action, as if the command
advanced from top to bottom. The left arm, from which was not the speech seems to share his interpretation
of our demand. His hand is laid with soft gesture in her lap and affectionately embraces as the
last Ends of the falling beard. It gives the impression that they wanted to pick the violence
had with the one moment abused the other hand the beard.

Now you be urged however: This is so not the Moses of the Bible, really became angry and threw the
tablets that they broke. That would be a very different Moses from the sensation of the artist,
who would have removed it, the sacred text and emend to distort the character of the divine man.
May we Michelangelo expect that freedom, perhaps not far from a crime on Christmas?

The position of Sacred Scripture, in which the conduct of Moses at the scene of the golden Calf
is reported is as follows (I apologize that I anachronistically As Luther's translation of the operator):

(B.
II, ch. 32) »7 The Lord said unto Moses, Go, Go down, for your people,
thou hast brought out of Egypt, has busts it.

8. They are quickly kicked out of the way I commanded them. They have made themselves a molten
calf, and worshiped it, and sacrificed him, and said, These be thy gods, O Israel, which brought
thee out of Egypt have. 9. And the Lord said to Moses: I see that it is a stiff-necked people.
10. And now Let me, that my wrath wax hot over them and destroy them, so I want you a great
nation . Make 11.

Moses pleaded, but before the Lord his God and said, O Lord wants to know why your Wrath wax
hot against thy people, that you have with great power and mighty hand of Egypt out? ...

... 14. So the Lord repented of the evil which he threatens his people to do. 15. Moses turned
, and rose from the mountain, and had two tables of testimony in his hand, which were written
on both sides. 16. And God himself had made, and dug himself the writing of that. 17. As Joshua
heard the people screaming that they shout, he said unto Moses, There is a Shouting in the camp
as in the dispute. 18. He replied: It is not a cry against each other prevail and which the subject,
but I hear a cry of victory dance. 19. As but he came close to camp and saw the calf and the
dancing, he groaned with rage and threw the tablets from his hands, and brake them beneath the
mount; 20 and took the calf which they had made, and zerschmelzte it with fire, and crushed it
to powder, dusted and the water, and made the children of Israel
to drink, ...

30.

In the morning, Moses said to the people, you have done a great sin, and now I want to go up to
the Lord if I may perhaps reconcile your sins. 31. And Moses the Lord again came, he said, "Oh, the
people have done a great sin, and have made golden gods. 32. Now, forgive them their sins; if not,
blot me also out of your book you wrote have. 33. The Lord said to Moses: What? I will blot out
of my book, the sin against me. 34. Now therefore go, and lead the people whither I have told
you. See, my angel is before you fro. I will visit their sin, well, when my time comes to haunt.
35. So the Lord punished the people that they had made the calf, which Aaron made. "

Under the influence of modern Biblical criticism, it is impossible for us to read this passage
without find in it the signs of clumsy composition from several source
reports.

In Verse 8 tells the Lord himself to Moses that the people had fallen and an idol have made. Moses
prays for the sinners. But he acts against Joshua in verse 18, as he knew not, and sudden surges
in anger (verse 19), as the scene of idolatry seen. In verse 14, he has obtained the pardon of God
for his sinful people already, but he goes verse 31 ff again reported on the mountain to pray for
this pardon, Lord of the waste of the people and replaced by the insurance of the reprieve. Verse
35 refers to the punishment of the people by God, of which nothing was announced during in verses
20-30, the Criminal Court, which Moses himself carried out, described was. It is known that
the historical portions of the book, which deals with the extension,
riddled with inconsistencies and contradictions are even more striking.

For

the people of the Renaissance, there was such a critical approach to biblical texts, of course,
not, they had to interpret the report as a coherent and well thought then that He offered the
performing arts is not a good connection. The Moses of the bible was of the Idolatry of the
people have already been informed, had been on the side of leniency and Asked forgiveness and
then it died a sudden fit of rage, he of the golden calf and the dancing crowd was in sight. It would
not surprising, then, when the artist, wanted to represent the reaction of the hero of this grievous
surprise from inner motives of the biblical text would have made independent. Nor was such
a deviation from the Texts of Scripture from lower motives by no means unusual or the artist
failed. A famous painting of the Parmigiano shows in his native town to us by Moses, as He sat on
the top of a mountain throws the tablets to the ground, although the verse explicitly states that
he broke at the foot of the mountain. Even the depiction of a seated Moses finds no indication
on the Bible text and seems to give more rights to those judges who
accepted, that the statue of Michelangelo's intention to hold any
particular moment in the life of the hero.

More important than the betrayal of the sacred text is probably the change that Michelangelo
carried out according to our interpretation of the character of Moses. The man Moses was under
the irascible testimonies of tradition and subjected to outbursts of passion. In a such a fit of
holy anger he had killed the Egyptian, who battered an Israelite and had to flee from the land
in the desert. shattered in a similar emotional outburst he two tablets which God himself had
described. If the tradition of such traits reported, it is probably tendenzlos and feels a
great personality, once lived, has received. But Michelangelo to the grave monument of a different
Pope Moses sat down, which is superior to the historical or traditional Moses. He has the motive
the broken tablets of the law rewritten, he can not break through the anger of Moses', but that anger
by threatening that they could disintegrate, or at least appease inhibit on the way to act. He
has something new, superhuman in the figure of Moses set, and the huge body mass and vigorous
muscles of the figure is only the physical means of expression for
the highest mental power that a person possible, for the low-rings
of his own passion for the benefit and on behalf of a Determination,
we have dedicated themselves.

There must be the interpretation of Michelangelo's statue achieve their end. One can still
question raise the motives in the artist worked, as he Moses, and that such a transformed Moses, destined
for the grave monument of Pope Julius II. was consistent from many quarters be noted that these motifs
in the character of the pope and the relationship of the artist to look to him are. Julius II, Michelangelo
had used the fact that it great and mighty sought to achieve, especially the size of the dimension.
He was a man of action, its goal was assignable, he strove for the unification of Italy under
the rule of the papacy. What should only several centuries later, a successful cooperation of
other powers that he wanted to achieve alone, an individual in the short span of time and power,
the granted to him, was impatient with violent means. He knew Michelangelo as an equal to appreciate,
but he was often suffer from his anger and his ruthlessness. The artist was the same intensity
of striving consciously and may be deeper-looking Grübler the failure have guessed they were
both sentenced to. So he brought his Moses at the monument to the Pope, not without reproach
to the deceased, to Reminder for yourself, getting up with this criticism of one's own nature.

4.

In
1863 an Englishman has W. Watkiss Lloyd, the Moses of Michelangelo,
a small book given [11].

When I managed to get hold of this document to be of 46 pages, I took her Content with mixed
feelings to the attention. It was another opportunity to work on their own person to know what kind of
infantile unworthy motives to our work in the service of a large contributing cause maintain.
 At first, the straight lines
which radiate from the starting point diverge farther and farther from one another, but later
they approach each other, and finally they run together again at a "counter-point" to the starting
point. Under such conditions they have traversed the whole spherical space. It is easily seen
that the three-dimensional spherical space is quite analogous to the two-dimensional spherical
surface. It is finite (i.e. of finite volume), and has no bounds.

It may be mentioned that there is yet another kind of curved space: " elliptical space." It
can be regarded as a curved space in which the two " counter-points " are identical (indistinguishable
from each other). An elliptical universe can thus be considered to some extent as a curved
universe possessing central symmetry.

It follows from what has been said, that closed spaces without limits are conceivable. From
amongst these, the spherical space (and the elliptical) excels in its simplicity, since all
points on it are equivalent. As a result of this discussion, a most interesting question arises
for astronomers and physicists, and that is whether the universe in which we live is infinite,
or whether it is finite in the manner of the spherical universe. Our experience is far from
being sufficient to enable us to answer this question. But the general theory of relativity
permits of our answering it with a moduate degree of certainty, and in this connection the
difficulty mentioned in Section 30 finds its solution.

THE STRUCTURE OF SPACE ACCORDING TO THE GENERAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY

According to the general theory of relativity, the geometrical properties of space are not
independent, but they are determined by matter. Thus we can draw conclusions about the geometrical
structure of the universe only if we base our considerations on the state of the matter as
being something that is known. We know from experience that, for a suitably chosen co-ordinate
system, the velocities of the stars are small as compared with the velocity of transmission
of light. We can thus as a rough approximation arrive at a conclusion as to the nature of the
universe as a whole, if we treat the matter as being at rest.

We already know from our previous discussion that the behaviour of measuring-rods and clocks
is influenced by gravitational fields, i.e. by the distribution of matter. This in itself is
sufficient to exclude the possibility of the exact validity of Euclidean geometry in our universe.
But it is conceivable that our universe differs only slightly from a Euclidean one, and this
notion seems all the more probable, since calculations show that the metrics of surrounding
space is influenced only to an exceedingly small extent by masses even of the magnitude of
our sun. We might imagine that, as regards geometry, our universe behaves analogously to a
surface which is irregularly curved in its individual parts, but which nowhere departs appreciably
from a plane: something like the rippled surface of a lake. Such a universe might fittingly
be called a quasi-Euclidean universe. As regards its space it would be infinite. But calculation
shows that in a quasi-Euclidean universe the average density of matter would necessarily be
nil. Thus such a universe could not be inhabited by matter everywhere ; it would present to
us that unsatisfactory picture which we portrayed in Section 30.

If we are to have in the universe an average density of matter which differs from zero, however
small may be that difference, then the universe cannot be quasi-Euclidean. On the contrary,
the results of calculation indicate that if matter be distributed uniformly, the universe would
necessarily be spherical (or elliptical). Since in reality the detailed distribution of matter
is not uniform, the real universe will deviate in individual parts from the spherical, i.e.
the universe will be quasi-spherical. But it will be necessarily finite. In fact, the theory
supplies us with a simple connection *  between the space-expanse of the universe and the average
density of matter in it.

  Notes

*) For the radius R of the universe we obtain the equation

                        eq. 28: file eq28.gif

The use of the C.G.S. system in this equation gives 2/k = 1^.08.10^27; p is the average density
of the matter and k is a constant connected with the Newtonian constant of gravitation.

APPENDIX I

SIMPLE DERIVATION OF THE LORENTZ TRANSFORMATION (SUPPLEMENTARY TO SECTION 11)

For the relative orientation of the co-ordinate systems indicated in Fig. 2, the x-axes of
both systems pernumently coincide. In the present case we can divide the problem into parts
by considering first only events which are localised on the x-axis. Any such event is represented
with respect to the co-ordinate system K by the abscissa x and the time t, and with respect
to the system K1 by the abscissa x' and the time t'. We require to find x' and t' when x and
t are given.

A light-signal, which is proceeding along the positive axis of x, is transmitted according
to the equation

                                x = ct

or

                 x - ct = 0     .     .     .    (1).

Since the same light-signal has to be transmitted relative to K1 with the velocity c, the propagation
relative to the system K1 will be represented by the analogous formula

                x' - ct' = O     .     .     .    (2)

Those space-time points (events) which satisfy (x) must also satisfy (2). Obviously this will
be the case when the relation

          (x' - ct') = l (x - ct)     .     .     .    (3).

is fulfilled in general, where l indicates a constant ; for, according to (3), the disappearance
of (x - ct) involves the disappearance of (x' - ct').

If we apply quite similar considerations to light rays which are being transmitted along the
negative x-axis, we obtain the condition

           (x' + ct') = µ(x + ct)    .     .     .    (4).

By adding (or subtracting) equations (3) and (4), and introducing for convenience the constants
a and b in place of the constants l and µ, where

                        eq. 29: file eq29.gif

and

                        eq. 30: file eq30.gif

we obtain the equations

                        eq. 31: file eq31.gif

We should thus have the solution of our problem, if the constants a and b were known. These
result from the following discussion.

For the origin of K1 we have permanently x' = 0, and hence according to the first of the equations
(5)

                        eq. 32: file eq32.gif

If we call v the velocity with which the origin of K1 is moving relative to K, we then have

                        eq. 33: file eq33.gif

The same value v can be obtained from equations (5), if we calculate the velocity of another
point of K1 relative to K, or the velocity (directed towards the negative x-axis) of a point
of K with respect to K'. In short, we can designate v as the relative velocity of the two systems.

Furthermore, the principle of relativity teaches us that, as judged from K, the length of a
unit measuring-rod which is at rest with reference to K1 must be exactly the same as the length,
as judged from K', of a unit measuring-rod which is at rest relative to K. In order to see
how the points of the x-axis appear as viewed from K, we only require to take a " snapshot
" of K1 from K; this means that we have to insert a particular value of t (time of K), e.g.
t = 0. For this value of t we then obtain from the first of the equations (5)

                               x' = ax

Two points of the x'-axis which are separated by the distance Dx' = I when measured in the
K1 system are thus separated in our instantaneous photograph by the distance

                        eq. 34: file eq34.gif

But if the snapshot be taken from K'(t' = 0), and if we eliminate t from the equations (5),
taking into account the expression (6), we obtain

                        eq. 35: file eq35.gif

From this we conclude that two points on the x-axis separated by the distance I (relative to
K) will be represented on our snapshot by the distance

                        eq. 36: file eq36.gif

But from what has been said, the two snapshots must be identical; hence Dx in (7) must be equal
to Dx' in (7a), so that we obtain

                        eq. 37: file eq37.gif

The equations (6) and (7b) determine the constants a and b. By inserting the values of these
constants in (5), we obtain the first and the fourth of the equations given in Section 11.

                        eq. 38: file eq38.gif

Thus we have obtained the Lorentz transformation for events on the x-axis. It satisfies the
condition

         x'2 - c^2t'2 = x2 - c^2t2    .     .     .    (8a).

The extension of this result, to include events which take place outside the x-axis, is obtained
by retaining equations (8) and supplementing them by the relations

                        eq. 39: file eq39.gif

In this way we satisfy the postulate of the constancy of the velocity of light in vacuo for
rays of light of arbitrary direction, both for the system K and for the system K'. This may
be shown in the following manner.

We suppose a light-signal sent out from the origin of K at the time t = 0. It will be propagated
according to the equation

                        eq. 40: file eq40.gif

or, if we square this equation, according to the equation

          x2 + y2 + z2 = c^2t2 = 0    .     .     .    (10).

It is required by the law of propagation of light, in conjunction with the postulate of relativity,
that the transmission of the signal in question should take place -- as judged from K1 -- in
accordance with the corresponding formula

                               r' = ct'

or,

       x'2 + y'2 + z'2 - c^2t'2 = 0    .     .     .    (10a).

In order that equation (10a) may be a consequence of equation (10), we must have

   x'2 + y'2 + z'2 - c^2t'2 = s (x2 + y2 + z2 - c^2t2)       (11).

Since equation (8a) must hold for points on the x-axis, we thus have s = I. It is easily seen
that the Lorentz transformation really satisfies equation (11) for s = I; for (11) is a consequence
of (8a) and (9), and hence also of (8) and (9). We have thus derived the Lorentz transformation.

The Lorentz transformation represented by (8) and (9) still requires to be generalised. Obviously
it is immaterial whether the axes of K1 be chosen so that they are spatially parallel to those
of K. It is also not essential that the velocity of translation of K1 with respect to K should
be in the direction of the x-axis. A simple consideration shows that we are able to construct
the Lorentz transformation in this general sense from two kinds of transformations, viz. from
Lorentz transformations in the special sense and from purely spatial transformations. which
corresponds to the replacement of the rectangular co-ordinate system by a new system with its
axes pointing in other directions. That is to say: If we substitute their expressions in x,
y, x, t, in place of x', y', x', t', on the left-hand side, then the left-hand side of (11a)
agrees with the right-hand side.

APPENDIX II

MINKOWSKI'S FOUR-DIMENSIONAL SPACE ("WORLD") (SUPPLEMENTARY TO SECTION 17)

We can characterise the Lorentz transformation still more simply if we introduce the imaginary
eq. 25 in place of t, as time-variable. If, in accordance with this, we insert

                              x[1] = x
                              x[2] = y
                              x[3] = z
                              x[4] = eq.

That is, by the afore-mentioned choice of " coordinates," (11a) [see the end of Appendix II]
is transformed into this equation.

We see from (12) that the imaginary time co-ordinate x[4], enters into the condition of transformation
in exactly the same way as the space co-ordinates x[1], x[2], x[3]. It is due to this fact
that, according to the theory of relativity, the " time "x[4], enters into natural laws in
the same form as the space co ordinates x[1], x[2], x[3].

A four-dimensional continuum described by the "co-ordinates" x[1], x[2], x[3], x[4], was called
"world" by Minkowski, who also termed a point-event a " world-point." From a "happening" in
three-dimensional space, physics becomes, as it were, an " existence " in the four-dimensional
" world."

This four-dimensional " world " bears a close similarity to the three-dimensional " space "
of (Euclidean) analytical geometry. If we introduce into the latter a new Cartesian co-ordinate
system (x'[1], x'[2], x'[3]) with the same origin, then x'[1], x'[2], x'[3], are linear homogeneous
functions of x[1], x[2], x[3] which identically satisfy the equation

        x'[1]^2 + x'[2]^2 + x'[3]^2 = x[1]^2 + x[2]^2 + x[3]^2

The analogy with (12) is a complete one. We can regard Minkowski's " world " in a formal manner
as a four-dimensional Euclidean space (with an imaginary time coordinate) ; the Lorentz transformation
corresponds to a " rotation " of the co-ordinate system in the fourdimensional " world."

APPENDIX III

THE EXPERIMENTAL CONFIRMATION OF THE GENERAL THEORY OF RELATIVITY

From a systematic theoretical point of view, we may imagine the process of evolution of an
empirical science to be a continuous process of induction. Theories are evolved and are expressed
in short compass as statements of a large number of individual observations in the form of
empirical laws, from which the general laws can be ascertained by comparison. Regarded in this
way, the development of a science bears some resemblance to the compilation of a classified
catalogue. It is, as it were, a purely empirical enterprise.

But this point of view by no means embraces the whole of the actual process ; for it slurs
over the important part played by intuition and deductive thought in the development of an
exact science. As soon as a science has emerged from its initial stages, theoretical advances
are no longer achieved merely by a process of arrangement. Guided by empirical data, the investigator
rather develops a system of thought which, in general, is built up logically from a small number
of fundamental assumptions, the so-called axioms. We call such a system of thought a theory.
The theory finds the justification for its existence in the fact that it correlates a large
number of single observations, and it is just here that the " truth " of the theory lies.

Corresponding to the same complex of empirical data, there may be several theories, which differ
from one another to a considerable extent. But as regards the deductions from the theories
which are capable of being tested, the agreement between the theories may be so complete that
it becomes difficult to find any deductions in which the two theories differ from each other.
As an example, a case of general interest is available in the province of biology, in the Darwinian
theory of the development of species by selection in the struggle for existence, and in the
theory of development which is based on the hypothesis of the hereditary transmission of acquired
characters.

We have another instance of far-reaching agreement between the deductions from two theories
in Newtonian mechanics on the one hand, and the general theory of relativity on the other.
This agreement goes so far, that up to the preseat we have been able to find only a few deductions
from the general theory of relativity which are capable of investigation, and to which the
physics of pre-relativity days does not also lead, and this despite the profound difference
in the fundamental assumptions of the two theories. In what follows, we shall again consider
these important deductions, and we shall also discuss the empirical evidence appertaining to
them which has hitherto been obtained.

 (a) Motion of the Perihelion of Mercury

According to Newtonian mechanics and Newton's law of gravitation, a planet which is revolving
round the sun would describe an ellipse round the latter, or, more correctly, round the common
centre of gravity of the sun and the planet. In such a system, the sun, or the common centre
of gravity, lies in one of the foci of the orbital ellipse in such a manner that, in the course
of a planet-year, the distance sun-planet grows from a minimum to a maximum, and then decreases
again to a minimum. If instead of Newton's law we insert a somewhat different law of attraction
into the calculation, we find that, according to this new law, the motion would still take
place in such a manner that the distance sun-planet exhibits periodic variations; but in this
case the angle described by the line joining sun and planet during such a period (from perihelion--closest
proximity to the sun--to perihelion) would differ from 360^0. The line of the orbit would not
then be a closed one but in the course of time it would fill up an annular part of the orbital
plane, viz. between the circle of least and the circle of greatest distance of the planet from
the sun.

According also to the general theory of relativity, which differs of course from the theory
of Newton, a small variation from the Newton-Kepler motion of a planet in its orbit should
take place, and in such away, that the angle described by the radius sun-planet between one
perhelion and the next should exceed that corresponding to one complete revolution by an amount
given by

                        eq. 41: file eq41.gif

(N.B. -- One complete revolution corresponds to the angle 2p in the absolute angular measure
customary in physics, and the above expression giver the amount by which the radius sun-planet
exceeds this angle during the interval between one perihelion and the next.) In this expression
a represents the major semi-axis of the ellipse, e its eccentricity, c the velocity of light,
and T the period of revolution of the planet. Our result may also be stated as follows : According
to the general theory of relativity, the major axis of the ellipse rotates round the sun in
the same sense as the orbital motion of the planet. Theory requires that this rotation should
amount to 43 seconds of arc per century for the planet Mercury, but for the other Planets of
our solar system its magnitude should be so small that it would necessarily escape detection. *

In point of fact, astronomers have found that the theory of Newton does not suffice to calculate
the observed motion of Mercury with an exactness corresponding to that of the delicacy of observation
attainable at the present time. After taking account of all the disturbing influences exerted
on Mercury by the remaining planets, it was found (Leverrier: 1859; and Newcomb: 1895) that
an unexplained perihelial movement of the orbit of Mercury remained over, the amount of which
does not differ sensibly from the above mentioned +43 seconds of arc per century. The uncertainty
of the empirical result amounts to a few seconds only.

 (b) Deflection of Light by a Gravitational Field

In Section 22 it has been already mentioned that according to the general theory of relativity,
a ray of light will experience a curvature of its path when passing through a gravitational
field, this curvature being similar to that experienced by the path of a body which is projected
through a gravitational field. As a result of this theory, we should expect that a ray of light
which is passing close to a heavenly body would be deviated towards the latter. For a ray of
light which passes the sun at a distance of D sun-radii from its centre, the angle of deflection
(a) should amount to

                        eq. 42: file eq42.gif

It may be added that, according to the theory, half of Figure 05 this deflection is produced
by the Newtonian field of attraction of the sun, and the other half by the geometrical modification
(" curvature ") of space caused by the sun.

This result admits of an experimental test by means of the photographic registration of stars
during a total eclipse of the sun. The only reason why we must wait for a total eclipse is
because at every other time the atmosphere is so strongly illuminated by the light from the
sun that the stars situated near the sun's disc are invisible. The predicted effect can be
seen clearly from the accompanying diagram. If the sun (S) were not present, a star which is
practically infinitely distant would be seen in the direction D[1], as observed front the earth.
But as a consequence of the deflection of light from the star by the sun, the star will be
seen in the direction D[2], i.e. at a somewhat greater distance from the centre of the sun
than corresponds to its real position.

In practice, the question is tested in the following way. The stars in the neighbourhood of
the sun are photographed during a solar eclipse. In addition, a second photograph of the same
stars is taken when the sun is situated at another position in the sky, i.e. a few months earlier
or later. As compared whh the standard photograph, the positions of the stars on the eclipse-photograph
ought to appear displaced radially outwards (away from the centre of the sun) by an amount
corresponding to the angle a.

We are indebted to the [British] Royal Society and to the Royal Astronomical Society for the
investigation of this important deduction. Undaunted by the [first world] war and by difficulties
of both a material and a psychological nature aroused by the war, these societies equipped
two expeditions -- to Sobral (Brazil), and to the island of Principe (West Africa) -- and sent
several of Britain's most celebrated astronomers (Eddington, Cottingham, Crommelin, Davidson),
in order to obtain photographs of the solar eclipse of 29th May, 1919. The relative discrepancies
to be expected between the stellar photographs obtained during the eclipse and the comparison
photographs amounted to a few hundredths of a millimetre only. Thus great accuracy was necessary
in making the adjustments required for the taking of the photographs, and in their subsequent
measurement.

The results of the measurements confirmed the theory in a thoroughly satisfactory manner. The
rectangular components of the observed and of the calculated deviations of the stars (in seconds
of arc) are set forth in the following table of results :

                      Table 01: file table01.gif

 (c) Displacement of Spectral Lines Towards the Red

In Section 23 it has been shown that in a system K1 which is in rotation with regard to a Galileian
system K, clocks of identical construction, and which are considered at rest with respect to
the rotating reference-body, go at rates which are dependent on the positions of the clocks.
We shall now examine this dependence quantitatively. A clock, which is situated at a distance
r from the centre of the disc, has a velocity relative to K which is given by

                                V = wr

where w represents the angular velocity of rotation of the disc K1 with respect to K. If v[0],
represents the number of ticks of the clock per unit time (" rate " of the clock) relative
to K when the clock is at rest, then the " rate " of the clock (v) when it is moving relative
to K with a velocity V, but at rest with respect to the disc, will, in accordance with Section
12, be given by

                        eq. 43: file eq43.gif

or with sufficient accuracy by

                        eq. 44: file eq44.gif

This expression may also be stated in the following form:

                        eq. 

"Oh, I'm not gone," said Wiseli. "I quickly hid behind the Box, I thought you were already going
out a little more like every day before. "

"But how could you, more and without that I saw you?" Otto wanted to know.

"If you herumliefst with the others, I was already out. I watched already. And Yesterday and today, when
I was not sure I went through the room and asked the teacher the woman teacher, if they do
something for me you have sometimes gives me an order to align, and
then I went through the kitchen.

Yesterday I was just behind the Kuechentuer as you ran test in the
classroom.

"

Now Otto knew the whole ghost story.

6.

Now, as judged from the disc, the latter is in a gravititional field of potential f, hence
the result we have obtained will hold quite generally for gravitational fields. Furthermore,
we can regard an atom which is emitting spectral lines as a clock, so that the following statement
will hold:

An atom absorbs or emits light of a frequency which is dependent on the potential of the gravitational
field in which it is situated.

The frequency of an atom situated on the surface of a heavenly body will be somewhat less than
the frequency of an atom of the same element which is situated in free space (or on the surface
of a smaller celestial body).

Now f = - K (M/r), where K is Newton's constant of gravitation, and M is the mass of the heavenly
body. Thus a displacement towards the red ought to take place for spectral lines produced at
the surface of stars as compared with the spectral lines of the same element produced at the
surface of the earth, the amount of this displacement being

                        eq. 48: file eq48.gif

For the sun, the displacement towards the red predicted by theory amounts to about two millionths
of the wave-length. A trustworthy calculation is not possible in the case of the stars, because
in general neither the mass M nor the radius r are known.

It is an open question whether or not this effect exists, and at the present time (1920) astronomers
are working with great zeal towards the solution. Owing to the smallness of the effect in the
case of the sun, it is difficult to form an opinion as to its existence. Whereas Grebe and
Bachem (Bonn), as a result of their own measurements and those of Evershed and Schwarzschild
on the cyanogen bands, have placed the existence of the effect almost beyond doubt, while other
investigators, particularly St. John, have been led to the opposite opinion in consequence
of their measurements. It is not possible that the prophet, even in extreme agitation, the hand could
have stretched out to pull his beard aside in. In the event would be the attitude of the fingers
become very different one, and also had as a result of this movement fall off the tables have,
which are held only by the pressure of the right hand, it was unless you mute the form to the
boards and then to obtain even a very awkward Movement, that idea actually contained a degradation.
("Unless clutched by a gesture Sun awkward, to imagine that it is profanation. ")

It is easy to see where the failure of the author is. It has the distinctive features of the Beard
correctly interpreted as signs of past movement, it failed but then, same conclusion as to the
details of not less forced into the position of the panels apply. He used only the signs of
a beard, not that of the panels, whose position he accepts as the original. So he moved his way to
a vision like ours, which the rating of certain insignificant details about a surprising interpretation
of the whole figure and its intentions come.

How, then, but if we both all situated on the wrong track? If we Details
would include heavy and meaningful to the Artists were indifferent
to it purely arbitrary, and certain towards formal occasions had only
just made the way they are, without down into something secret in it?
If we the lot of so many Performers were forfeited, who believe
to see clearly what the Artists create either consciously or unconsciously
willed? There can I do not decide. I do not say whether it may concern,
a Artists such as Michelangelo, after much thought content in the works
Expression is struggling to trust such a naive vagueness, and whether
this just for the striking and peculiar features of the Moses statue acceptable.


My original considerations on the subject were based on two hypotheses:

(1) There exists an average density of matter in the whole of space which is everywhere the
same and different from zero.

(2) The magnitude (" radius ") of space is independent of time.

Both these hypotheses proved to be consistent, according to the general theory of relativity,
but only after a hypothetical term was added to the field equations, a term which was not required
by the theory as such nor did it seem natural from a theoretical point of view (" cosmological
term of the field equations ").

Hypothesis (2) appeared unavoidable to me at the time, since I thought that one would get into
bottomless speculations if one departed from it.

However, already in the 'twenties, the Russian mathematician Friedman showed that a different
hypothesis was natural from a purely theoretical point of view. He realized that it was possible
to preserve hypothesis (1) without introducing the less natural cosmological term into the
field equations of gravitation, if one was ready to drop hypothesis (2). Namely, the original
field equations admit a solution in which the " world radius " depends on time (expanding space).
In that sense one can say, according to Friedman, that the theory demands an expansion of space.

A few years later Hubble showed, by a special investigation of the extra-galactic nebulae ("
milky ways "), that the spectral lines emitted showed a red shift which increased regularly
with the distance of the nebulae. This can be interpreted in regard to our present knowledge
only in the sense of Doppler's principle, as an expansive motion of the system of stars in
the large -- as required, according to Friedman, by the field equations of gravitation. Hubble's
discovery can, therefore, be considered to some extent as a confirmation of the theory.

There does arise, however, a strange difficulty. The interpretation of the galactic line-shift
discovered by Hubble as an expansion (which can hardly be doubted from a theoretical point
of view), leads to an origin of this expansion which lies " only " about 10^9 years ago, while
physical astronomy makes it appear likely that the development of individual stars and systems
of stars takes considerably longer. It is in no way known how this incongruity is to be overcome.

I further want to remark that the theory of expanding space, together with the empirical data
of astronomy, permit no decision to be reached about the finite or infinite character of (three-dimensional)
space, while the original " static " hypothesis of space yielded the closure (finiteness) of space.

K = co-ordinate system x, y = two-dimensional co-ordinates x, y, z = three-dimensional co-ordinates
x, y, z, t = four-dimensional co-ordinates

t = time I = distance v = velocity

F = force G = gravitational field

