In the winter of 1885-86 the wife of a practicing physician in Memphis, in good social standing
whose name has escaped me, left home, husband and children, and ran away with her black coachman. A
new force, extraordinary, is just apparent in history, a spiritual force analogous to that
which formerly stimulated souls in Spain in the sixteenth century, in European the time of
the crusades, and in Arabia in the time of Mahomet.

It stimulates the faculties to excess, increases energy tenfold, transports man beyond or
above himself, creates enthusiasts and heroes, blinding or rendering men crazy, and hence the
irresistible conquerors and rulers. It stamps its imprint and leaves its memorials in ineffaceable
characters on men and things from Cadiz to Moscow. It overrides all
natural barriers and transcends all ordinary limits.

"The French soldier," writes a Prussian officer after Jena, [3353] "are small and puny. One of
our Germans could whip any four of them. But, under fire, they become supernatural beings. They
are swept along by an indescribable ardor of which there is not a trace among our soldiers....
What can you do with peasants whom nobles lead into battle, but whose danger they share without any
interest in their passions or recompenses!"-- Coupled with the physical
needs which requires a certain amount of ease and of daily food, and
which, if too strenuously opposed, produces passing jacqueries, there
is a still more potent longing which, on suddenly encountering its
object, seizes on it, clings to it, gorges it, and produces revolutions
that last: this longing is the desire to contemplate one-self with
satisfaction and complacency, forming of one's self a pleasing, flattering
image, and of trying to impress and plant this image in the minds
of others; in short, the ambition for a great self-esteem and of becoming
greatly esteemed by others. [3354] This sentiment, according to the
quality of the person and according to circumstances, gives birth
sometimes to the noblest virtues and the most sublime devotion, and
at other times to the worst misdeeds and the most dangerous delirium:
the man becomes transfigured, the sleeping god or demon which both
live within him is suddenly aroused.

After 1789, both appear and both together; from this date onward, says
an eye-witness, [3355] and, during one quarter of a century, "for most Frenchmen
and in whatever class," the object of life is displaced; each has put
it outside of himself; from now on, the essential thing for everybody is
"to have lived," or "to have died for something," for an idea. When the Negro farm hand who was
plowing in the field heard it he took the mule from the plow and fled. The dispatches also
told of a woman in South Carolina who gave birth to a Negro child and charged three men with
being its father, every one of whom has since disappeared. In Tuscumbia, Ala., the colored
boy who was lynched there last year for assaulting a white girl told her before his accusers
that he had met her there in the woods often before.

Frank Weems of Chattanooga who was not lynched in May only because the prominent citizens became
his body guard until the doors of the penitentiary closed on him, had letters in his pocket
from the white woman in the case, making the appointment with him. The chief of the Wolf gens
is the herald and the sheriff of the tribe.

He superintends the erection of the council-house and has the care of it. He calls the council together
in a formal manner when directed by the sachem. He announces to the tribe all the decisions
of the council, and executes the directions of the council and of
the sachem.

Gentile councils are held frequently from day to day and from week
to week, and are called by the chief whenever deemed necessary. Mrs. Marshall's social position was unquestioned, and wealth showered every dainty
on this child which was idolized with its brothers and sisters by its white papa. In course
of time another child appeared on the scene, but it was unmistakably dark. All were alarmed,
and "rush of blood, strangulation" were the conjectures, but the doctor, when asked the cause,
grimly told them it was a Negro child. There was a family conclave, the coachman heard of it
and leaving his own family went West, and has never returned. As soon as Mrs. Marshall was
able to travel she was sent away in deep disgrace. Her husband died within the year of a broken
heart. 

MURDER.

In the case of murder, if both parties are members of the same gens, the matter is tried by
the gentile council on complaint of the head of the household, but
there may be an appeal to the council of the tribe.

Where the parties belong to different gentes, complaint is formally made by the injured party,
through the chief of his gens, in the following manner: A wooden
tablet is prepared, upon which is inscribed the totem or heraldic
emblem of the injured man's gens, and a picture-writing setting forth
the offense follows.

The gentile chief appears before the chief of the council of the offender, and formally states the
offense, explaining the picture-writing, which is then delivered.

A council of the offender's gens is thereupon called and a trial is held. It is the duty of this
council to examine the evidence for themselves and to come to a conclusion
without further presentation of the matter on the part of the person
aggrieved.

Having decided the matter among themselves, they appear before the chief of the council of
the aggrieved party to offer compensation. If the gens of the offender fail to settle the matter
with the gens of the aggrieved party, it is the duty of his nearest relative to avenge the wrong.
Either party may appeal to the council of the tribe. The appeal must
be made in due form, by the presentation of a tablet of accusation.

Inquiry
into the effect of a failure to observe prescribed formalities developed an interesting fact.
In procedure against crime, failure in formality is not considered a violation of the rights of the accused,
but proof of his innocence. It is considered supernatural evidence that
the charges are false.

In trials for all offenses forms of procedure are, therefore, likely to be earnestly questioned. TREASON.
Treason consists in revealing the secrets of the medicine preparations
or giving other information or assistance to enemies of the tribe,
and is punished by death.

The trial is before the council of the tribe. WITCHCRAFT. Witchcraft is punished by death, stabbing,
tomahawking, or burning. Charges of witchcraft are investigated by
the grand council of the tribe.

When the accused is adjudged guilty, he may appeal to supernatural
judgment.

The test is by fire. A circular fire is built on the ground,
through which the accused must run from east and west and from north
to south. If no injury is received he is adjudged innocent; if he falls
into the fire he is adjudged guilty. The raids of the Ku-Klux
and White Liners to subvert reconstruction government, the Hamburg and Ellerton, S.C., the
Copiah County, Miss., and the Layfayette Parish, La., massacres were excused as the natural
resentment of intelligence against government by ignorance.

Honest white men practically conceded the necessity of intelligence murdering ignorance to
correct the mistake of the general government, and the race was left to the tender mercies
of the solid South. Thoughtful Afro-Americans with the strong arm of the government withdrawn
and with the hope to stop such wholesale massacres urged the race to sacrifice its political
rights for sake of peace. They honestly believed the race should fit itself for government,
and when that should be done, the objection to race participation in politics would be removed.

But the sacrifice did not remove the trouble, nor move the South to justice. One by one the
Southern States have legally(?) disfranchised the Afro-American, and since the repeal of the
Civil Rights Bill nearly every Southern State has passed separate car laws with a penalty against
their infringement. The race regardless of advancement is penned into filthy, stifling partitions
cut off from smoking cars. Rights and duties are co-relative. Rights imply duties, and duties imply
rights. The right inhering in the party of the first part imposes a duty on the party of the second
part. The right and its co-relative duty are inseparable parts of a relation that must be
maintained by government; and the relations which governments are established to maintain
may be treated under the general head of rights.

In Wyandot government these rights may be classed as follows: First--
Rights of marriage.

Second-- Rights to names. Third-- Rights to personal adornments. Fourth-- Rights of order in encampments
and migrations. Fifth-- Rights of property. Sixth-- Rights of person. Seventh-- Rights of community.
Eighth-- Rights of religion.

To maintain rights, rules of conduct are established, not by formal enactment, but by regulated usage.
Such custom-made laws may be called regulations.

MARRIAGE REGULATIONS.

Marriage between members of the same gens is forbidden, but consanguineal marriages between
persons of different gentes are permitted. For example, a man may not marry his mother's sister's
daughter, as she belongs to the same gens with himself; but he can marry his father's sister's
daughter, because she belongs to a different gens. Children, irrespective
of sex, belong to the gens of the mother.

Men and women must marry within the tribe. A woman taken to wife from without the tribe must first
be adopted into some family of a gens other than that to which the man belongs. That a woman
may take for a husband a man without the tribe he must also be adopted into the family of some
gens other than that of the woman. What has been called by some ethnologists endogamy and exogamy
are correlative parts of one regulation, and the Wyandots, like all other tribes of which we
have any knowledge in North America, are both endogamous and exogamous.

Polygamy is permitted, but the wives must belong to different gentes. The first wife remains
the head of the household. Polyandry is prohibited.

A man seeking a wife consults her mother, sometimes direct, and sometimes through his own mother.
The mother of the girl advises with the women councilors to obtain their consent, and the young
people usually submit quietly to their decision.

Sometimes the women councilors consult with the men.

When a girl is betrothed, the man makes such presents to the mother as he can. It is customary
to consummate the marriage before the end of the moon in which the betrothal is made. Bridegroom
and bride make promises of faithfulness to the parents and women
councilors of both parties.

It is customary to give a marriage feast, in which the gentes of both parties take part. For
a short time at least, bride and groom live with the bride's mother, or rather in the original
household of the bride.

The time when they will set up housekeeping for themselves is usually
arranged before marriage.

In the event of the death of the mother, the children belong to her sister or to her nearest female
kin, the matter being settled by the council women of the gens. As the children belong to the mother,
on the death of the father the mother and children are cared for
by her nearest male relative until subsequent marriage.

  
  
  NAME REGULATIONS.
  
  It has been previously explained that there is a body of names, the
  exclusive property of each gens. Once a year, at the green-corn festival,
  the council women of the gens select the names for the children born
  during the previous year, and the chief of the gens proclaims these
  names at the festival. No person may change his name, but every person,
  man or woman, by honorable or dishonorable conduct, or by remarkable circumstance,
  may win a second name commemorative of deed or circumstance, which is a
  kind of title.

REGULATIONS OF PERSONAL ADORNMENT.

Each clan has
a distinctive method of painting the face, a distinctive chaplet to
be worn by the gentile chief and council women when they are inaugurated,
and subsequently at festival occasions, and distinctive ornaments
for all its members, to be used at festivals and religious ceremonies.

REGULATIONS
OF ORDER IN ENCAMPMENT AND MIGRATIONS.

The order in which the households
camp in the gentile group is regulated by the gentile councilors and
adjusted from time to time in such a manner that the oldest family
is placed on the left, and the youngest on the right. In migrations
and expeditions the order of travel follows the analogy of encampment.

PROPERTY
RIGHTS.

Within the area claimed by the tribe each gens occupies a
smaller tract for the purpose of cultivation. The right of the gens
to cultivate a particular tract is a matter settled in the council
of the tribe, and the gens may abandon one tract for another only
with the consent of the tribe. The women councillors partition the
gentile land among the householders, and the household tracts are
distinctly marked by them. The ground is re-partitioned once in two
years.

  In each case the crime was deliberately planned and perpetrated by
  several Negroes. They watched for an opportunity when the women were
  left without a protector. It was not a sudden yielding to a fit of
  passion, but the consummation of a devilish purpose which has been
  seeking and waiting for the opportunity. This feature of the crime not
  only makes it the most fiendishly brutal, but it adds to the terror of
  the situation in the thinly settled country communities. No man can
  leave his family at night without the dread that some roving Negro
  ruffian is watching and waiting for this opportunity. The swift
  punishment which invariably follows these horrible crimes doubtless acts
  as a deterring effect upon the Negroes in that immediate neighborhood
  for a short time. But the lesson is not widely learned nor long
  remembered. Then such crimes, equally atrocious, have happened in quick
  succession, one in Tennessee, one in Arkansas, and one in Alabama. The
  facts of the crime appear to appeal more to the Negro's lustful
  imagination than the facts of the punishment do to his fears. He sets
  aside all fear of death in any form when opportunity is found for the
  gratification of his bestial desires.

  There is small reason to hope for any change for the better. The
  commission of this crime grows more frequent every year. The generation
  of Negroes which have grown up since the war have lost in large measure
  the traditional and wholesome awe of the white race which kept the
  Negroes in subjection, even when their masters were in the army, and
  their families left unprotected except by the slaves themselves. In so great
  a number there is great variety, and in this variety we find different
degrees of organization, the degrees of organization being determined
by the differentiation of the functions of the government and the
correlative specialization of organic elements.

  
  
  Much has yet to be done in the study of these governments before safe
  generalizations may be made. But enough is known to warrant the following
  statement:
  
  Tribal government in North America is based on kinship in that the
fundamental units of social organization are bodies of consanguineal
kindred either in the male or female line; these units being what
has been well denominated "gentes."

  
  These "gentes" are organized into tribes by ties of relationship and
  affinity, and this organization is of such a character that the man's
  position in the tribe is fixed by his kinship. There is no place in
  a tribe for any person whose kinship is not fixed, and only those persons
  can be adopted into the tribe who are adopted into some family with artificial
  kinship specified. The fabric of Indian society is a complex tissue of kinship.
  The warp is made of streams of kinship blood, and the woof of
  marriage ties.
  
  With most tribes military and civil affairs are differentiated. The functions
  of civil government are in general differentiated only to this extent,
  that executive functions are performed by chiefs and sachems, but these
  chiefs and sachems are also members of the council.

  The council is legislature and court. Perhaps it were better to say that
  the council is the court whose decisions are law, and that the legislative
  body properly has not been developed.
  
  In general, crimes are well defined. Procedure is formal, and forms are
  held as of such importance that error therein is prima facie evidence
  that the subject-matter formulated was false.
  
  When one gens charges crime against a member of another, it can of its
  own motion proceed only to retaliation. To prevent retaliation, the
  gens of the offender must take the necessary steps to disprove the crime,
  or to compound or punish it. The charge once made is held as just
  and true until it has been disproved, and in trial the cause of the defendant
  is first stated. The anger of the prosecuting gens must be placated.
  
  In the tribal governments there are many institutions, customs, and traditions
  which give evidence of a former condition in which society was based
  not upon kinship, but upon marriage.
  
  From a survey of the facts it seems highly probably that kinship
  society, as it exists among the tribes of North America, has developed from
  connubial society, which is discovered elsewhere on the globe.
  In fact, there are a few tribes that seem scarcely to have passed
that indefinite boundary between the two social states.

  Philologic research leads to the same conclusion.
  
  Nowhere in North America have a people been discovered who have passed
beyond tribal society to national society based on property, i. e.,
that form of society which is characteristic of civilization.

Some peoples may not have reached kinship society; none have passed
it.

Nations with civilized institutions, art with palaces, monotheism
as the worship of the Great Spirit, all vanish from the priscan condition
of North America in the light of anthropologic research.

Tribes with the social institutions of kinship, art with its highest architectural development exhibited
in the structure of communal dwellings, and polytheism in the worship of mythic animals and nature-gods
remain. After a personal difficulty which Barrett
sought by going into the "People's Grocery" drawing a pistol and was thrashed by Calvin McDowell,
he (Barrett) threatened to "clean them out." These men were a mile beyond the city limits and
police protection; hearing that Barrett's crowd was coming to attack them Saturday night, they
mustered forces, and prepared to defend themselves against the attack.

When Barrett came he led a posse of officers, twelve in number, who afterward claimed to be
hunting a man for whom they had a warrant. That twelve men in citizen's clothes should think
it necessary to go in the night to hunt one man who had never before been arrested, or made
any record as a criminal has never been explained. When they entered the back door the young
men thought the threatened attack was on, and fired into them. Three of the officers were wounded,
and when the defending party found it was officers of the law upon whom they had fired, they
ceased and got away.

Thirty-one men were arrested and thrown in jail as "conspirators," although they all declared
more than once they did not know they were firing on officers. The heads of households are responsible
for the cultivation of the tract, and should this duty be neglected the council of the gens calls
the responsible parties to account.

Cultivation is communal; that is, all of the able-bodied women of the gens take part in the cultivation
of each household tract in the following manner: The head of the
household sends her brother or son into the forest or to the stream
to bring in game or fish for a feast; then the able-bodied women of
the gens are invited to assist in the cultivation of the land, and
when this work is done a feast is given.

The wigwam or lodge and all articles of the household belong to the woman-- the head of the household--
and at her death are inherited by her eldest daughter, or nearest
of female kin. The matter is settled by the council women. If the husband
die his property is inherited by his brother or his sister's son,
except such portion as may be buried with him.

His property consists of his clothing, hunting and fishing implements, and such articles as are used personally
by himself. Usually a small canoe is the individual property of
the man.

Large canoes are made by the male members of the gentes, and are the property of the gentes. RIGHTS
OF PERSON. Each individual has a right to freedom of person and security
from personal and bodily injury, unless adjudged guilty of crime
by proper authority.

COMMUNITY RIGHTS. Each gens has the right to the services of all its women in the cultivation
of the soil.

Each gens has the right to the service of all its male members in avenging wrongs, and the tribe
has the right to the service of all its male members in time of war.

RIGHTS OF RELIGION.

Each phratry has the right to certain religious ceremonies and the preparation of certain medicines.
Each gens has the exclusive right to worship its tutelar god, and
each individual has the exclusive right to the possession and use
of a particular amulet.

CRIMES.

The violations of right are crimes. Some of the crimes recognized by the Wyandots
are as follows: 1.

Adultery. 2. Theft. 3. Maiming. 4. Murder. 5. Treason. 6. Witchcraft.
A maiden guilty of fornication may be punished by her mother or female
guardian, but if the crime is flagrant and repeated, so as to become
a matter of general gossip, and the mother fails to correct it, the
matter may be taken up by the council women of the gens.

A woman guilty of adultery, for the first offense is punished by
having her hair cropped; for repeated offenses her left ear is cut
off.

THEFT. The punishment for theft is twofold restitution. When the prosecutor
and prosecuted belong to the same gens, the trial is before the council
of the gens, and from it there is no appeal.

If the parties involved are of different
gentes, the prosecutor, through the head of his household, lays the
matter before the council of his own gens; by it the matter is laid
before the gentile council of the accused in a formal manner.

Her white citizens are wedded to any method however revolting, any measure however extreme,
for the subjugation of the young manhood of the race. They have cheated him out of his ballot,
deprived him of civil rights or redress therefor in the civil courts, robbed him of the fruits
of his labor, and are still murdering, burning and lynching him.

The result is a growing disregard of human life. Lynch law has spread its insiduous influence
till men in New York State, Pennsylvania and on the free Western plains feel they can take
the law in their own hands with impunity, especially where an Afro-American is concerned. Besides,
in default of deaths, wounds and violent elimination, there is another elimination, not less
efficacious, operating in this direction, and for a long time, in
favor of men of ability, preparing places for them and accelerating
their advancemen