Riley is very methodical, untiringly accommodating, never forgets anything that is to be attended
to, is a good son, a stanch friend, and a permanent reliable enemy.  He will put himself to
any amount of trouble to oblige a body, and therefore always has his hands full of things to
be done for the helpless and the shiftless.  And he knows how to do nearly everything, too.
He is a man whose native benevolence is a well-spring that never goes dry.  He stands always
ready to help whoever needs help, as far as he is able--and not simply with his money, for
that is a cheap and common charity, but with hand and brain, and fatigue of limb and sacrifice
of time.  This sort of men is rare.

Riley has a ready wit, a quickness and aptness at selecting and applying quotations, and a
countenance that is as solemn and as blank as the back side of a tombstone when he is delivering
a particularly exasperating joke.  One night a negro woman was burned to death in a house next
door to us, and Riley said that our landlady would be oppressively emotional at breakfast,
because she generally made use of such opportunities as offered, being of a morbidly sentimental
turn, and so we should find it best to let her talk along and say nothing back--it was the
only way to keep her tears out of the gravy.  Riley said there never was a funeral in the neighborhood
but that the gravy was watery for a week.

And, sure enough, at breakfast the landlady was down in the very sloughs of woe--entirely brokenhearted.
Everything she looked at reminded her of that poor old negro woman, and so the buckwheat cakes
made her sob, the coffee forced a groan, and when the beefsteak came on she fetched a wail
that made our hair rise.  Then she got to talking about deceased, and kept up a steady drizzle
till both of us were soaked through and through. Presently she took a fresh breath and said,
with a world of sobs:

"Ah, to think of it, only to think of it!--the poor old faithful creature.  For she was so
faithful.  Would you believe it, she had been a servant in that selfsame house and that selfsame
family for twenty seven years come Christmas, and never a cross word and never a lick!  And,
oh, to think she should meet such a death at last!--a-sitting over the red hot stove at three
o'clock in the morning and went to sleep and fell on it and was actually roasted!  Not just
frizzled up a bit, but literally roasted to a crisp!  Poor faithful creature, how she was cooked!
I am but a poor woman, but even if I have to scrimp to do it, I will put up a tombstone over
that lone sufferer's grave--and Mr. Riley if you would have the goodness to think up a little
epitaph to put on it which would sort of describe the awful way in which she met her--"

"Put it, 'Well done, good and faithful servant,'" said Riley, and never smiled.

A FINE OLD MAN

John Wagner, the oldest man in Buffalo--one hundred and four years old --recently walked a
mile and a half in two weeks.

He is as cheerful and bright as any of these other old men that charge around so persistently
and tiresomely in the newspapers, and in every way as remarkable.

Last November he walked five blocks in a rainstorm, without any shelter but an umbrella, and
cast his vote for Grant, remarking that he had voted for forty-seven presidents--which was a lie.

His "second crop" of rich brown hair arrived from New York yesterday, and he has a new set
of teeth coming from Philadelphia.

He is to be married next week to a girl one hundred and two years old, who still takes in washing.

They have been engaged eighty years, but their parents persistently refused their consent until
three days ago.

John Wagner is two years older than the Rhode Island veteran, and yet has never tasted a drop
of liquor in his life--unless-unless you count whisky.

SCIENCE V.S. LUCK--[Written about 1867.]

At that time, in Kentucky (said the Hon. Mr. K-----); the law was very strict against what
is termed "games of chance."  About a dozen of the boys were detected playing "seven up" or
"old sledge" for money, and the grand jury found a true bill against them.  Jim Sturgis was
retained to defend them when the case came up, of course. The more he studied over the matter,
and looked into the evidence, the plainer it was that he must lose a case at last--there was
no getting around that painful fact. Those boys had certainly been betting money on a game
of chance.  Even public sympathy was roused in behalf of Sturgis.  People said it was a pity
to see him mar his successful career with a big prominent case like this, which must go against
him.

But after several restless nights an inspired idea flashed upon Sturgis, and he sprang out
of bed delighted.  He thought he saw his way through. The next day he whispered around a little
among his clients and a few friends, and then when the case came up in court he acknowledged
the seven-up and the betting, and, as his sole defense, had the astounding effrontery to put
in the plea that old sledge was not a game of chance! There was the broadest sort of a smile
all over the faces of that sophisticated audience.  The judge smiled with the rest.  But Sturgis
maintained a countenance whose earnestness was even severe.  The opposite counsel tried to
ridicule him out of his position, and did not succeed. The judge jested in a ponderous judicial
way about the thing, but did not move him.  The matter was becoming grave.  The judge lost
a little of his patience, and said the joke had gone far enough.  Jim Sturgis said he knew
of no joke in the matter--his clients could not be punished for indulging in what some people
chose to consider a game of chance until it was proven that it was a game of chance.  Judge
and counsel said that would be an easy matter, and forthwith called Deacons Job, Peters, Burke,
and Johnson, and Dominies Wirt and Miggles, to testify; and they unanimously and with strong
feeling put down the legal quibble of Sturgis by pronouncing that old sledge was a game of chance.

"What do you call it now?" said the judge.

"I call it a game of science!" retorted Sturgis; "and I'll prove it, too!"

They saw his little game.

He brought in a cloud of witnesses, and produced an overwhelming mass of testimony, to show
that old sledge was not a game of chance but a game of science.

Instead of being the simplest case in the world, it had somehow turned out to be an excessively
knotty one.  The judge scratched his head over it awhile, and said there was no way of coming
to a determination, because just as many men could be brought into court who would testify
on one side as could be found to testify on the other.  But he said he was willing to do the
fair thing by all parties, and would act upon any suggestion Mr. Sturgis would make for the
solution of the difficulty.

Mr. Sturgis was on his feet in a second.

"Impanel a jury of six of each, Luck versus Science.  Give them candles and a couple of decks
of cards.  Send them into the jury-room, and just abide by the result!"

There was no disputing the fairness of the proposition.  The four deacons and the two dominies
were sworn in as the "chance" jurymen, and six inveterate old seven-up professors were chosen
to represent the "science" side of the issue.  They retired to the jury-room.

In about two hours Deacon Peters sent into court to borrow three dollars from a friend.  [Sensation.]
In about two hours more Dominie Miggles sent into court to borrow a "stake" from a friend.
[Sensation.]  During the next three or four hours the other dominie and the other deacons sent
into court for small loans.  And still the packed audience waited, for it was a prodigious
occasion in Bull's Corners, and one in which every father of a family was necessarily interested.

The rest of the story can be told briefly.  About daylight the jury came in, and Deacon Job,
the foreman, read the following:

     VERDICT:

     We, the jury in the case of the Commonwealth of Kentucky vs. John
     Wheeler et al., have carefully considered the points of the case,
     and tested the merits of the several theories advanced, and do
     hereby unanimously decide that the game commonly known as old sledge
     or seven-up is eminently a game of science and not of chance.  In
     demonstration whereof it is hereby and herein stated, iterated,
     reiterated, set forth, and made manifest that, during the entire
     night, the "chance" men never won a game or turned a jack, although
     both feats were common and frequent to the opposition; and
     furthermore, in support of this our verdict, we call attention to
     the significant fact that the "chance" men are all busted, and the
     "science" men have got the money.  It is the deliberate opinion of
     this jury, that the "chance" theory concerning seven-up is a
     pernicious doctrine, and calculated to inflict untold suffering and
     pecuniary loss upon any community that takes stock in it.

"That is the way that seven-up came to be set apart and particularized in the statute-books
of Kentucky as being a game not of chance but of science, and therefore not punishable under
the law," said Mr. K-----. "That verdict is of record, and holds good to this day."