He give me the bill, an' offered me all kinds o' prices for the poultry; but I wanted to take
'em to Barbie, an' I finally stuck 'em under the seat an' refused to let any one see 'em. That
blame fool offered me seventy-five dollars for that pair o' chickens when he got off the train
at Oakland, an' I was blame glad I had give up business, 'cause it was sure good business to
take a price like that. The five-dollar bill was all right an' I spent part of it at the restaurants
along the way.

When I got off the train at Webb Station, who did I see but Spider Kelley an' the home freight-wagon.
Well, we was both glad to see each other, an' he stayed sober just so we could chat together
on the home ride.

"How did you like business?" sez he. "Oh, it pays--in a money way," sez I, "but it's too monotonous.
I don't like it."

"You ain't been gone long enough to make much money," sez he.

"Oh, no, not what you would call money in business," sez I, "but I've handled several pieces
o' coin since I been away, an' I'll have nine hundred for ol' Cast Steel to put out on pasture
for me."

"Nine hundred! Well, by gee!" sez Spider. "What kind o' business have you been in, Happy?"

"Oh, I tried hosses first, but they wasn't enough change in it, then I went to Frisco an' give
the dry-goods business a work-out. I tried the real estate business next; but, Spider, you'll
be surprised to learn that I made more money out o' goats an' chickens than any other business
I got into."

"Well, that sure is wonderful," sez Spider. "Are you goin' to stay here a spell, or are you
just goin' to try to get Old Cast Steel interested in poultry? I doubt if he goes into chickens
deep, he allus likes to herd on a big scale."

"I'm goin' to give this here pair to Barbie," sez I. "If the old man wants me to take on for
the fall round-up, why it's likely I'll do it, an' I may even stay through the winter. Money
ain't the whole o' life, an' I like this range better'n any I ever rode over."

"Well, he'll be glad enough to take you on for the round-up," sez Spider. "Omaha has quit."

"The deuce he has," sez I. "What did he quit for?"

"Him an' Bill Andrews had some words, an' I got to own up that Bill was in the right of it.
Cast Steel didn't take any sides, an' Omaha, he finally pulled out week before last. Bill Andrews
is the nearest thing we got to a foreman now."

"How's everything goin'?" sez I.

"Smoother'n oil," sez he. "I've been around the ranch house ever since you been away, tendin'
to Pluto an' breakin' colts."

"I'm goin' to get out an' walk back," sez I.

"What the 'ell for?" sez he.

"I never struck this place before when it wasn't in a tangle," sez I, "an' I feel in my bones,
it betokens bad luck."

"Oh, hoofs," sez he, "you ain't that superstitious are you? Did you leave last time in the
same humor as usual?"

Then I felt a shade easier. "No," sez I, "every other time me an' Cast Steel had had a little
difference; but this time, I was simply tired o' the place. Well, I'll go on an' chance it;
but I'm leery that somethin' will happen."

We arrived next day in time for supper, an' Barbie an' Jabez was mighty glad to see me. Barbie
went wild over the chickens, just as I knew she would, an' Jabez said that he used to like
eggs himself when he was a boy, an' would have got some poultry long ago if he'd only thought
of it. They both of 'em laughed to think that I had at last come back to the Diamond Dot without
findin' any kind of warfare; an' when I told 'em that it sort o' worried me, they only laughed
the more.

"How did you like business, Happy?" sez Jabez.

"I got nine hundred dollars I wish you'd range out with the rest o' my herd," sez I, "but to
tell you the simple truth, I don't like business, not one mite."

I thought I could stall 'em off without tellin' 'em what kind o' business I'd made my stake
in, but they wormed it out o' me before that first meal was over. It was a merry meal, an'
lasted about three hours. I enjoyed it, but I made up my mind that if I took on again, I was
goin' to eat with the rest of the boys. I had allus et with Barbie an' Jabez; but I didn't
want to have any o' the outfit get to thinkin' that I wasn't nothin' but a visitor. When bedtime
hove around, Jabez sez, "Well, you'll find your old room ready, Happy."

"Why, I reckon I'll sleep in the bunk shack from this on," sez I.

"I reckon you won't," sez he. "You're worth more to me as a sort o' reserve than you 'd be
as a straight puncher, an' the' ain't no use o' your gettin' so blame finicky all of a sudden.
What's got into you lately?"

"Now, you knob' how it is, Jabez," sez I, "if I cut loose from the rest o' the bunch, they're
bound to talk about it an'--"

"Let 'em talk," he snaps in. "Talk ain't expensive; but I don't think they're a jealous lot.
They all like you, Happy, an' I got a sort of a suspicion that those who don't won't pester
you overly much. I ain't heard the straight of it, but I have heard some talk about him overestimatin'
his ability in the ridin' line. Now cut out this nonsense an' just begin where you left off.
Barbie here'll be mighty glad of some company again."

It didn't take 'em long to talk me into it--it generally is easy to break down a man's will
when it ain't braced up by his natural desires; so after I'd balked as long as seemed polite,
I settled into the collar again an' trotted along just in the same old gait.

It was just as I thought. Barbie was plumb wild to hear all those college stories, an' the
queer words that Ches used to talk with. She asked me about a thousand questions that I wasn't
sure on the answers; but I made out to interest her, an' Jabez' face used to beam when he'd
hear her laugh ring out.

We were sure a happy household; but I noticed mighty soon that Barbie was more restless than
ever; but also had more control over herself. She wasn't so quick about either askin' questions
nor givin' answers as she used to be, an' she noticed things closer--an' this was goin' some
too; 'cause she allus did inspect everything that came on her range.

We had a gang o' tourists swoop down on us for a couple o' days, an' it tickled me to see her
watch 'em an' draw back in her shell any time she thought they was watchin' her. I knew every
line in her face, an' mighty few of her thoughts came as a surprise when she framed 'em into
words. She never said it all now, unless she was het up about something, an' I like to listen
to any one 'at talks like that. Her best thoughts were never accented, they just came in as
packin' like, an' it added to the interest. When a feller hands out a little commonplace idy
an' then sends along a couple o' verses to tell what it means, I get weary; but when I'm able
to see into somethin' that lays too close to his heart to say out, an' too close to forget,
why I feel as if I had found a real jewel, an' that was the way with Barbie. I knew that somethin'
was tuggin' at her; but when I found out exactly what it was, it came with almost as much of
a shock as if I hadn't known it was there all the time.

CHAPTER SIXTEEN

THE HIGHER EDUCATION OF WOMAN

Barbie had grown some more, even durin' the little time 'at I'd been away. She had got used
to the new rig she wore an' wasn't a mite awkward, an' her face was firmer an' more self-composed.
She was purtier too, though it don't seem possible. It even seems more impossible when I tell
ya that she looked more like of Cast Steel than ever. He an' the girl was a heap alike, 'cept
that he was big an' raw-boned an' spare-featured; while she was as dainty as an antelope, an'
as far as looks went, she was the Queen Bee of Creation, I reckon.

When it came to ridin' a bucker or shootin' off an eye-winker or expressin' herself free an'
frank, she didn't have to import no testimony to prove 'at she was his daughter either. She
had him skinned on ridin' though; 'cause while he was able to set anything on four feet, he
allus showed 'at he had begun late in life, an' he sometimes jerked the bit unintentional;
while she--well, I reckon she must 'a' been born on hoss-back, an' besides, I had give her
all the pointers the' was.

One mornin' about ten days after I'd come back, I heard 'em discussin' purty heatedly out back
of the corral; an' I just sauntered over to harken to it. It wasn't a case of eavesdroppin',
'cause when them two had any comments to make they didn't care a blue bean what the prevailin'
style in opinions happened to be, they nailed their own personal jedgments on the wall an'
then stuck around handy to back 'em up. I was particular anxious to know what they was crossin'
words over, 'cause I couldn't get it out o' my head but what my comin' back an' findin' 'em
peaceable betokened something.

Jabez was standin' with his feet wide apart, his hands on his hips, his hat tilted over one
ear, his chin stickin' out with the lips pursed up, an' his eyes had a dogged look in 'em.
Line by line an' feature by feature, she shadowed him to the last item; an' neither one of
'em saw a twinkle o' comicalness in it, neither.

"Do you know who you're talkin' to?" he yells just as I arrived. "I'm your father!"

"What of it?" she snaps back. "It's too late to remedy that--I just got to make the best of
it. But do you know who you're talkin' to? I'm the future owner of the Diamond Dot, an' I ain't
a-layin' no plans to have the lala-kadinks from the civilized parts o' this country come out
an' round up my langwidge, same as they gather Injun speciments. You may be my father, but
you can just bet your saddle that before I reach the end o' my trail, a stranger won't be able
to guess it from our talk."

Now the old man was mighty savin' with his cuss-words, a' he put out a purty tol'able fair
grade o' grammar; but the girl had an eye in her head and an ear to listen with, an' she had
been for a long time takin' notice o' the side winks o' the Easterners. Some Easterners put
on their manners the same as their complexions, an' the open air is apt to put cracks in 'em.

The of man looked at her a good long while, but she never blinked a winker; an' he finally
turned away an' said in a soft-like voice, "I know, child, I ain't been able to fill the part
full measure--but it ain't 'cause I haven't tried. I reckon you'll have to go, honey; but it'll
sure be lonesome while you're away; an' when you do come back you'll never be my little kid
any more." His voice kept gettin' sadder an' sadder until I about snuffled myself when he continued
"I'll rub up my talk all I can while you're away, an' then if you bring out any friends next
summer you can tell 'em that I'm the foreman an' that you let me eat in the house while your
father is takin' a trip to Europe."

The ol' man would have played that part about as natural as a bull buffalo, but he fooled himself
into believin' it, an' his voice was purty shaky at the end. Barbie's eyes filled up with tears,
an' when he stopped an' began to totter feebly toward the house, she ran up an' threw her arms
about his neck, an' said. "Dad. I just hate you--you don't play fair. You start the game under
one set o' rules an' then when you get the worst of it you just simply crawfish. When we were
sayin' mean things out in the open, I just natchly put it all over you; an' now you flop over
on your back an' work that 'coals o' fire' stunt, an' I just hate you. You know in your heart
I'd be proud of you in any company on earth, but the' is a heap o' difference between you an'
me. You have been successful, an' strangers will respect you for it; but it's got to be a show-down
with me every time. If I don't learn the new gaits, so a stranger will think I'm city-broke,
some fresh tourist is apt to get the idee that I'm as uncivilized as my manners, an' it won't
do to tramp on my toes--not overly often. But I don't have to leave you. I'll just turn in
an' do the job right here on the ranch, an' accordin' to the very latest models. You get me
a lot o' books an' all the magazines an' fashion papers, an' hanged if I don't turn out a job
'at'll fool the best of 'em. You're a mean old Daddy, you are, for a fact; but we snake too
dandy a duet for me to go away an' leave you to grind out a solo all alone. But--but I sure
wanted to go."

Well, Jabez grinned all over; but I saw that he wasn't through with it so easy. Barbie wasn't
the one to throw her rope before she was all braced for the jerk, an' the' wouldn't be any
kinks in her logic, neither. She had thrown a purty stout string of arguments, an' I was full
prepared when they told me that he was to have his way about it, an' she was to go to college
that very fall.

She did go in less'n a month to a prep-school clear down East. A prep-school is a sort of a
calf college, you know; an' she had to train there a solid year before they had the nerve to
turn her loose on a full-grown university. But she had a head on her, Barbie had; an' when
she got squared away, she made 'em all get down an' scratch. They do say that she put more
life an' vim in that institution than anybody what had ever give it a work-out before.

Ol' Cast Steel went down twice the first winter, an' never let her know 'at he was in the neighborhood,
for fear it would make her think 'at he was pinin' for her. He just went down there an' bought
some store clothes an' prowled around waitin' for the chance to see her at a distance--never
even lined out the professors to see if they were doin' their duty, nor mixed in the game the
slightest bit. Talk about bein' game? I reckon that puts a shadow on anything ever that man
had to face.

She used to come back every summer, bringin' a lot of chums an' all kinds o' pets with her.
She was just daffy over any kind of a wild animal from an Injun papoose to a white mouse; an'
when she'd go back in the fall, Jabez had his hands full with parrots an' alligators an' butterfly
coons an' sech--to say nothin' of a lot of potted flowers what was mighty notionable in their
tastes.

I was so busy tendin' to this branch o' the outfit that about all the ridin' I did was for
exercise--yes, an' for company, 'cause it allus seemed as if she was along when I'd be out
on the range. Then, again, I allus felt a kind of drawin', myself, to the silent people, who
think an' wish an' feel, just the same as we do, but aren't able to handle our langwidge. I
got so I could purt' nigh tell what an animal had on his mind, just from tendin' to her speciments.

She had one speciment which was a possom, an' the blame thing bit me eight times one winter,
me tryin' to give it baths--an' then she wrote back home that the doggone critter didn't need'em
nohow. She purt'nigh got expended for takin' a rattlesnake back to the university an' keepin'
it hid in her room; an' after I'd had a deuce of a time catchin' 'em, they made her send a
bob-cat an' a mountain lion to some kind of a garden--wouldn't let her keep 'em at all. The
professors allus was a sore trial to her, but once she began a thing she allus fought it through,
so she put up with 'em the best way she could.

She used to tell us that bein' housed up like to 'a' drove her crazy at first, an' they was
so tarnation fussy that she felt like a hobbled pony in a stampede. They wouldn't even let
her picket her ponies out in what they call the campus, which she said was just drippin' fat
with rich grass, an' nary a hoof to graze it. Why, they even had fool notions about havin'
certain hours about goin' to bed, an' even when you had to put your lights out.

One night she got fidgety an' nervous with the lonesomeness of it, an' she got up about one
o'clock an' fired her revolvers out the window,--just for sport, you know, like a feller sometimes
will when he's--well, when his soul gets kind o' itchy like,--an' it purt' nigh started a riot.
She said 'at we wouldn't never believe how different the people was down there. I reckon a
university must be run a good bit like a penitentiary. But as I said, she wasn't no quitter,
an' I reckon, takin' it all in all, she give 'em back about as good as they sent.

Course we could see a lot o' change in her when she'd first come back, but it seemed to slide
off as the tan came on, an' by the time she left in the fall again she'd be purty much the
same old Barbie. She went full five years, countin' the prep-school, an' I don't suppose they
was much in the way o' learnin' they didn't filter through her; but it didn't spoil her, an'
the very moment her knees clamped on a pony again you could see that her blood was as red as
ever, even if her face was roses an' cream. My heart allus beat out of time when I knew she
was headin' back; but the very minute she gave my hand the old-time grip I knew she was still
the old-time girl, an' when she'd turn to the chums an' say, "Girls, this is Happy," why, I
was big brother to the lot, an' before they went back I'd teach 'em ridin' till they could
giggle on hoss-back without fallin' off. They all owned up that she was the takin'est girl
at the university, and while her pals was a mighty attractive lot, they didn't have to use
any arguments to convince me it was the truth.

She allus left me so much to do when she was away that I never felt like leavin' through the
winter; while durin' vacation time I wouldn't have gone without bein' drove; but toward the
middle of her fourth year, me an' Bill Andrews had another little run in.

We was havin' a terrible streak of weather, an' Bill wanted to move a herd over to the southwest
corner of the ranch where the' was some extra good bunch grass. It was a wise move all right,
an' I said so; but when he wanted me to help trail 'em, I vetoed it. I was watchin' up some
experiments with silkworms an' I didn't want to leave 'em. We were short-handed an' Jabez 'lowed
'at I'd better go. Well, we argued back an' forth until he finally said that he could take
full care o' the silkworms, an' intimated that my work with 'em wasn't much but pastime, anyway.

That settled it with me. I helped drive the herd, an' it was the bitterest weather we'd ever
had. The sleet blew in the cow's faces an' it was simply one long fight. Three o' the boys
gave up an' pulled back to the ranch house, but not me. I don't believe I slept on that drive,
night or day, an' when, the boys finally told Bill Andrews that it couldn't be done, I told
'em that it could, an' that if any more of 'ern dropped out I'd count it a personal insult.
We got 'em there all right, an' then I rode back to the ranch house.

Jabez had let the silkworms die--an' I told him what I thought of him, an' pulled out. It was
cold weather an' I was travelin' on foot, but it wasn't cold I was suffer in' from, it was heat.

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

IN RETIREMENT

I plugged along through the cold, gettin' hotter an' hotter all the time, 'cause I didn't want
to go away at all. Barbie'd be home in a few months and I wanted to be there when she came--but
I couldn't get over those silkworms. She was goin' to write somethin' about 'em for some kind
of a paper, an' it meant a good deal to her, an' I had kept a record of all the projec's she'd
written me to do with 'em--only to have Cast Steel an' flint fool Bill Andrews flounder in
with that herd o' cows.

I piked on over to Danders thinkin' I'd get on a train an' go somewhere; but on my way there
I met the foreman o' the E. Z. outfit ridin' into town to see if he couldn't pick up a fence-rider.
Then I see old Mrs. Fate nudgin' me in the ribs with her finger again. We was all down on fences
at the Diamond Dot. Jabez said that as far as he was concerned, he preferred to have his fences
mounted on hoss-back, 'cause they was easiest moved, an' we didn't have a foot o' wire on the
place. I knew that no one would ever think o' me ridin' fence, so I just up an' spoke for the
job. The foreman, Hank Midders was his name, didn't know me an' he was suspicious of me bein'
on foot. "Can you ride?" sez he.

"I used to could," sez I. "How many days' ridin' does it take to go around?"

"We don't ride that way," sez he, "we put two men in a camp an' they ride out fifteen miles
an' then double back."

"They waste the return trip," sez I.

"We think different," sez he. "We keep a big run o' cows, an' we want the whole fence rode
twice a day. We allus have plenty o' good ridin' ponies."

"Well, they ain't ridin' on my time," sez I, "so it ain't nothing to me. Do I get the job?"

"Where you been ridin' at?" sez he.

"At the Lion Head, for Jim Jimison," sez I.

"I've seen some o' their stuff," sez he. "It's a good outfit; but it's a rather lengthy walk
from here."

"Yes, I stopped off a while in Californie an' Idaho to rest," sez I. "Do I get the job?"

"We don't find a man's saddle an' bridle for him," sez he.

"I got mine cached over at Danders," sez I, recallin' the ones I had left there before I went
into business.

"What's your name?" sez he.

"I ain't nowise choicy," sez I, "call me anything you want."

"I guess you won't do," sez he, ridin' on into Danders.

I reached it myself about two hours later, an' went to the hotel. Hank was settin' by the stove
when I came into the bar-room. The' was eight or ten other fellers still restin' from last
summer's work, but I didn't see the old landlord. "Where's Peabody?" sez I.

"He's dead," sez a tall, snarley lookin' feller; "what do ya want with him?"

"I don't want nothin' with him--if he's dead," sez I. "Who's runnin' this place now?"

"I am," sez the snarley one. I didn't take to him at all.

"Would you be so kind enough as to tell me where my saddle an' bridle is?" sez I in my softest
voice. "What the 'ell do I know about your saddle an' bridle?" sez he.

"I left 'em here with Peabody," sez I.

"How would I know it was yours?" sez he, sneerin'.

"I'd recognize it," sez I. "It had H. H. burned into it."

"What does H. H. stand for?" sez he.

"It stands for Henry Higinson--sometimes," sez I. Then I turned to the bar mop an' said, "Where's
that saddle an' bridle?"

"Why, it's back in--" he began; but Snarley snaps in "You shut up, will ya? Even if this puncher
did leave an old saddle here years ago, I bought everything on the place from Peabody, an'
the storage on the rubbish would amount to more than it's worth."

"That 's kind o' new doctrine out this way," sez I; "an' I'm 'bliged to request you to produce
the articles so I can claim 'em up."

"You go ahead an' make me do it," sez he, grinnin'.

"Wouldn't you sooner do it of your own free will?" sez I, like a missionary tryin' to get up
enthusiasm over a donation.

"I'm good an' sick o' your fool nonsense," sez he, comin' down toward me. I was wearin' a gun
on each leg, an' I pulled 'em out an' punctuated both his ears at one time; but I never stopped
smilin'. He grabbed an ear in each hand an' begun to swear in a foreign langwidge, dancin'
around most comical. "Won't you please get my leather for me," sez I, "or would you sooner
have me guess off the center o' those two shots?"

"Yes," he roared, usin' a lot o' high-power words 'at ain't needful in repetin', "take your
blame junk an' get out o' here." I nodded to the bar mop. "Shall I get 'em, Frenchy?" sez he.

"Yes, for heaven's sake, get 'em," sez the snarley one, while some o' the boys snickered, but
not too noticeable.

Well, they was my saddle an' bridle all right, an' I thanked the bar mop an' flung 'em in a
corner. Then I went over an' sat down by Hank Midders. "Did you get your fence-rider yet?" sez I.

"No, I ain't got him yet, but I got two days to look for him in," he sez.

Just then who should come in but the same old Diamond Dot hand who had beat me out of the pony.
"Well, sign my name! If there ain't Happy Hawkins!" sez he, rushin' over an' shakin' my hand,
"Still in business, Happy?" sez he.

"Nope, I've retired," sez I.

"You'd ought to have stuck around here until that tourist went home from his vacation," sez
Bill,--I reckon his name was still Bill, though for the life o' me I can't remember it plain,--"he
got the whole town hilarious on account o' the joke we'd played on him. He was game all right,
an' he got me a job out to his uncle's, which I've held ever since--off an' on."

"Happy?" sez Hank Midders, "Happy what?"

"Happy Hawkins," sez Bill. "Haven't you never heard o' Happy Hawkins?"

"Happy Hawkins is down in the Texas-Pan Handle," sez I, in a matter-o'-fact voice. "Don't forget
that, Bill."

"Surest thing there is," sez Bill, winkin'. "I seen him get on the train myself."

"When will supper be ready, Frenchy?" I sez to the snarley one, who had been puttin' some grease
on his ears an' wishin' he'd had better manners.

"In about an hour," sez he, an' I knew the' wouldn't be any more trouble from him. He was one
o' these fellers what can take a lickin' without gettin' all broke up over it, an' he'd be
just as gay about bluffin' the next stranger as ever, an' he'd be just as dominatin' over them
what he had already bluffed.

"Well, I'm goin' out for a little stroll," sez I, "but I'll be back in time for supper, an'
I'll likely be hungry."

I knew they'd all want to ask a few questions, so I went outside an' walked down the street.
I couldn't make up my mind what to do, an' I wanted that fence-ridin' job more than ever. When
T turned around to come back, I see Hank Midders walkin' toward me. "So you're Happy Hawkins?"
sez he.

"Well, that's what some folks call me," sez I.

"I thought 'at you had finally settled down at the Diamond Dot?" sez he.

"The' ain't nothin' that I know of that changes any oftener than the style in thoughts," sez
I. "Do you think it's goin' to snow?"

He laughed. "You're Happy Hawkins all right," sez he. "Do you want that fence-ridin' job?"

"That's what I went to the trouble o' rootin' out that saddle an' bridle for," sez I, "but
I don't care to have it advertised that I'm ridin' fence at my time o' life, an' I don't promise
to continue at it more'n a few months."

"I see," sez he, "an' it'll be all right. Kid Porter'll be down with the buckboard day after
to-morrow, an' you can go out with him."

When I went back I see that Bill hadn't spared no details to make me interestin', an' all the
boys was friendly to me--an' called me Higinson. Me an' Frenchy got along all right, an' when
I threw my saddle an' bridle into the back o' the buckboard, an' sez, "Well, good-bye, fellers!
I'm on my way to the Pan Handle," they all calls out, "Goodbye, Happy! If any o' your friends
inquire for you we'll tell 'em we saw you start; but the next time you come this way, Higinson,
don't forget to drop in for a little sport."

Things generally even up pretty well in this life, an' before we had driven very far I was
able to see where I had got full value out o' that seven-dollar pony 'at Bill had beat me out
of. Kid Porter explained things to me an' I saw it was goin' to be a purty fair sort of a layout.
Our shack was closer to Danders than it was to headquarters, so we got our needin's there.
He said that Colonel Scott was an allright man to work for, but that he'd only seen him once
since he'd been on the job.

Ridin' fence is about as excitin' as waitin' for sun-up, an' after a couple of months at it
I was feelin' the need of a little change, so I drove down to Danders the first day of April,
an' while I was standin' on the platform watchin' the train pull in an' take water, a cute
little feller dismounted an' after givin' me a complete look-over, he sez: "Me good man, are
you a type of this community?"

I put my hand to my ear as though I had heard a noise close to the ground. After a bit I let
my gaze rest on him sort o' surprised like, an' then I sez in a soft, oozy voice, like a cow
conversin' to her first calf, "Be you speakin' to me, little one?" sez I.

It allus riles me some, to be called "me good man." It seems to give me a curious, itchy feelin'
in the right hand, an' I have had to make several extra peculiar speciments dance a few steps
for no other reason; but this little cuss never batted an eye. He looks me square in the face,
an' sez, "It is perfectly obvious that I could be addressin' nobody else. I am out in the West
hunting for a place to study the most pronounced types of American citizens, an' I am very
favorable impressed with your appearance."

Did you ever have a stranger brace you like that? I suppose the fat lady an' the livin' skeleton
gets used to it, but I allus feel a trifle too big for my background. I stand six foot two
an' dress easy an' comfortable, an' some o' the guys on the trains allus seem to think 'at
I'm part of the show, out for an airin'.

"Well, to tell you the truth, honey," I sez to the little feller, "I ain't fully maychured
yet. We get hair on our faces pretty young out here, but we don't get our growth till we're
twenty-five. I'm water-boy to the E. Z. outfit. If you want to see somethin' worth lookin'
at, you ought to come out where the men are. You'll find American citizens out there, a darn
sight harder type to pronounce than what I am. They sent me to town on an errant."

He examined me, but I never blinked a winker, an' then his face lit up, like as if he'd found
a whole plug of tobacco, when he thought his last chew was gone. Finally he gave a wink an'
a chuckle, an' sez, "Here, smoke a cigar on me, an' tell me if I can get board out your way.
I think you'll make copy."

He was just what I needed as a time-killer, so I spun him a yarn about the lovely life me an'
Kid Porter was livin'. We jerked out his trunk just before the train left, bought a month's
grub, an' came along out to our shack. His name was William Sinclair Hammersly, an' the' never
was a squarer boy on the face o' the earth, after he'd shed off those spectator ways. He won
my affections, as the storybooks say, before we was out o' sight o' Danders.

He said he had relations scattered all over the British Empire, an' owned up that he had just
come back from a long visit to England, where he had picked up the "good man" habit. I told
him that it might suit that climate all right, but that out our way I couldn't recommend it
to a peace-lovin' man for every-day use. He thanked me an' said he was ashamed to know so little
about his own country, this bein' the first time he had ever been west of Philadelphia. He
said that he was minded to become an author, an' had come out to study the aboriginal types
an' get the true local color. Whenever I hear this little bunch o' sounds, I know I got a nibble.
Any time a man goes nosin' around after local color, you can bet your saddle he's got several
zigzags in his think-organ.

These fellers is a breed to themselves. I wouldn't exactly call 'em wise--wordy'd come a sight
nearer fittin' these local-color fellers without wrinklin'. The''s a ringin' in my ears yet
from the time that I was penned up with Hammy an' Locals, an' this one had a good many o' the
same outward an' visible signs, but more o' the inward an' spiritual grace, as Friar Tuck sez.

Bill slid right into our mode of livin' like a younger brother, but it took us some consid'able
time to savvy his little private oddities. The' was one wide bunk in the shack an' one narrow
one. Me an' Bill took the wide one, but it wasn't so eternal wide that a feller could flop
around altogether accordin' to the dictates of his own conscience. When she was carryin' double
we had to hold a little consultation of war, to see whether we'd turn over or not.

We used to start out early in the mornin', an' if the' wasn't much fixin' to be done we got
back long before dark. About seven-thirty was our perchin' time before Bill took a hand, but
after that we got so convivual that sometimes we'd sit up till purt' nigh half-past nine, playin'
cut-throat an' swappin' tales. Sleep allus was a kind of a nuisance to Bill. Purt' nigh every
night when me an' the Kid would stretch ourselves out, Bill would speak a piece about "God
bless the man what first invented sleep"; but he was only joshin', an' all the time he was
sayin' it he'd be buildin' up the fire an' changin' his clothes. He had one suit which he never
wore for nothin' except just to sleep in. Pajamers, he called 'em, an' they sure was purty.

Well, he'd put on this suit an' a pair o' red-pointed slippers, light his pipe, pick his guitar,
an' saw his fiddle till along toward mornin', all the while singin' little batches o' song
an' speakin' pieces. Then he'd heave a sigh an' lay down alongside o' me; but in about fifteen
minutes he'd jump out o' bed, sayin', "That's good! That's great! I mustn't lose that!" an'
he'd get out a book an' write something into it. Sometimes he'd laugh over it an' sometimes
he'd cry.

The Kid'd never had no experiences with geniuses before, an' at first he feared that he might
get violent durin' the night, so he took his gun to bed with him, but I knowed the' wasn't
a mite o' danger in him. When breakfast was ready we purt' nigh had to get a hoss to pull him
out o' bed.

I was interested in his tales of foreign countries, an' he used to tell me all about the castles
he had been to. One day I happened to think of the letter what the drug clerk at Slocum's Luck
had wrote us, an' I asked Bill what kind of a lookin' place Clarenden Castle was. "Clarenden
Castle?" sez Bill. "Where the deuce did you ever hear of Clarenden Castle?"

"Well, I might have heard of it from the younger son," sez I. "He came over to this country,
you know."

"Where is he now?" sez Bill, mighty interested.

"Minin' law is, that the first feller what stakes out a claim gets it," sez I. "Now my question
staked out the first claim. You answer my questions an' then we'll be ready for yours."

"Humph," sez Bill.

"Where is St. James Court, Bill?" sez I.

"Well, I never expected you to know anything about such things!" sez Bill.

"'Tis wonderful how intelligent some trained animals are, ain't it?" sez I, sarcastic. "But
you must remember, little one, that I've been livin' right in the house with folks a good part
of my life. Now if you'll just answer my questions the same as if I was human, I'll sit up
an' beg, jump over a stick, an' do all my other tricks for you."

Bill would allus tumble if you hit him hard enough, so after a bit he grinned an' said, "Well,
Clarenden Castle is one o' the seats of the Cleighton family--"

"Seat?" sez I. "I allus thought it was a house."

"You see, over in England they call--" Bill began to explain it to me an' then he saw me grinnin'
an' he broke off short. "I know what a seat is, Bill," sez I. "They have country seats an'
town seats; but some o' you fellers pout when you're obliged to live up to the rules, an' I
wanted to see if you was square enough to own up after you'd been shown--the's lots o' fellers,
not as well edicated as you, who can't do it without groanin'."

Bill studied out this last remark before he answered, an' I was glad to notice it. Most fellers
look for a marked passage, but I like to train 'em out to pan everything I say, an' then do
their own testin'. Bill was all right. "Now, dear teacher," sez he, "if we are through with
that lesson, we shall return to the original subject." We both laughed, lookin' into each other's
eyes, an' it did us good.

"Now this Cleighton family is a great family in England and Scotland," sez Bill, "The Earl
of Clarenden is the head of one branch an' the Duke of Avondale is the head of another. The
sons are called lords, an' they have lots of land, but are running shy on money, an' the main
stem of the family is getting purty well thinned out."

"About this younger son that came to America, now?" sez I.

"Well, the present Earl married beneath him--I visited close to Clarenden Castle, an' I know
all about it," sez Bill. "He married an American girl with lots of money, Florence Jamison
of Philadelphia."

"Jamison?" sez I.

"Yes, Jamison," sez Bill. "I suppose you are well acquainted with the Philadelphia Jamisons?"

"Well, that name does awaken a purty tol'able fairsized echo," sez I, "but still, to be perfectly
frank with you, me an' the Jamisons ain't on what you could call intimate terms any more."

"I'm glad to learn it," sez Bill. "I'd hate to think that I had irritated you by implicatin'
that it was a come-down for an English Earl to marry into your circle." Bill most generally
squoze all the dampness out of his jokes. "This was his second marriage," Bill went on, "an'
he had one son by it, named James Arthur Fitzhugh Patrick--"

"That's plenty for me," sez I, breakin' in. "The first two names is interestin' to me, but
the' ain't no use loadin' down a feller with names till he has to pay excess baggage on 'em.
Now, how did this one get to be a younger son?"

"Why, the first marriage of the Earl also resulted in a son," sez Bill. "His first wife was
a lady of quality, but she had a weak constitution an' the son has epolepsy. The younger son
was fitted for the army, but he got into a scrape, was given a lump sum by his father, an'
came to this country, where he disappeared. He also had an inheritance from an aunt, a maiden
sister of his mother, who didn't like the first son for a minute."

"What kind of a scrape did the youngster get into, Bill?" sez I.

"He was engaged to the daughter of the curat at Avondale Chapel," sez Bill, "an' he bein' the
heir presumptive to the title--"

"What is that, Bill?" sez I.

"The one what gets the title as soon as the one who is holding it, dies, is the heir apparent,
an' the one who gets the next chance is the heir presumptive. It's a legal term an'--"

"Never mind explainin' it then," sez I, "If I was to live as long as Methusleh, all I'd know
about law would be that ignorance wasn't no excuse for it; but what is a curat?"

"A curate is a sort of preacher," sez Bill.

"I thought it was some kind of a doctor. But what in thunder did you mean when you said that
gettin' engaged to the daughter of one was a scrape?" sez I.

"Why, it wouldn't do for the heir presumptive to Clarenden, and a possible claimant to Avondale,
to get engaged to a person in that station of life; he had to make up either to a heap of money
or else a big title; he simply had to marry a lady of quality," sez Bill.

"So he could contribute his share of epolepsy to the family collection, I suppose," sez I.

"Well, James gets an awful callin' down," sez Bill, "an' he cuts loose from the family an'
goes to live in London, where he's a leftenant. Richard Cleighton, his cousin, who is the heir
presumptive, once removed, sneaks down there an' comes back with the report that James is married
to Alice LeMoyne, a music-hall dancer."

"Jim swung purty wide in his taste for women, didn't he?" sez I.

"The upshot of it was," sez Bill, never heedin' me, "that they settled with James, an' he lit
out--his mother had died several years before. About four years after, this Alice LeMoyne dies,
an' on her deathbed she confesses that she is the wife of Richard Cleighton an' helped to put
up the job on James to get him out of the way, as the heir apparent didn't look like a long-liver,
an' she thought she would like to be an Erless, with a chance of being a Duchess even."

"An' you mean to tell me that this low-grade Dick Cleighton puts up that job on Jim, just so
he can beat him to the title?" sez I.

"Yes," sez Bill, "you see he was the heir presumptive, only once removed."

"Well, if I'd had the job o' removin'," sez I, "once, would 'a' been plenty."

"That put Richard out o' the runnin'," sez Bill, "Lord Wilfred, the apparent, was livin' along
all right, an' the old Earl had come to the conclusion that when it came to a presumptive,
he'd sooner have Jim; so he turned the hose on Dick, an' started out to find Jim. Jim wrote
'em from New York that he was goin' to South Africa, an' then he wrote 'em from Australia that
he was goin' to India, an' then he wrote 'em from--"

"Oh, those was only jokes," sez I. "Jim's all right; but what become of Dick?"

"Nobody knows," sez Bill, "an' nobody cares. He's got lots better health than Lord Wilfred,
but he's got some epolepsy, too, an' he's a mean sneak. His mother was insane, but she left
him a little bunch of money."

"She must have had more quality than the average of 'em;" sez I, "but hanged if I wouldn't
sooner do without the quality than to have all that epolepsy thrown in with it. Jim's all right
though, I'll say that for the breed."

"Yes, Jim was a fine feller from all accounts," sez Bill, "but where the Jink did you meet
up with him?"

"It's a state secret," sez I, "or I'd let you in. Jim's doin' fine an' I wouldn't for the world
have him dragged down where he'd have to marry up with a lot o' quality. Now while you're givin'
your concert, I'm goin' out an' check up the stars."

I was purty yell pleased with Bill. I had bothered him all I could in the tellin' an' yet he
had kept his temper an' handed out the facts; an' I wanted to go over 'em forward an' hack
till I could get the full hang of 'em. It was wonderful queer how a ridin' man like me had
brushed shoulders, as you might say, with the Earl of Clarenden, an' I was beginnin' to think
that old Mrs. Fate was stirrin' things up a shade extra. As a usual thing I don't go into scandal
an' gossip so prodigious; but I was hungry to have another look at Jim, now that I knew he
was the son of an Earl, an' I decided to pull out an' give the Pan Handle a look-over as soon
as it was handy. I spent about two hours that night lookin' at the stars an' wishin' they could
tell me all they'd ever seen. They knew all that Barbie wanted to know, an' I didn't seem able
to git on the track, in spite of me readin' detective stories every chance I had.

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN

CUPID

Well, I didn't go down to the Pan Handle after all. I just fatten on a new variety of entertainment
an' the sample that Bill was puttin' out amused me to the limit. Me an' Bill drove down to
Danders on the first o' May to get some grub. Most o' this breed has a purty tol'able active
thirst, but Bill was unusual harmless when it came to storin' away liquor. About the only excitement
Danders held out to a temperance crank was goin' down to the depot to watch the train come
in. This time the west-bound had to take a sidin' and wait twenty minutes for the cast bound;
an' a feller got his dog out o' the baggage car an' started to climb the mountains.

You fellers all know how this air is, but a stranger thinks he can spit on a mountain that's
ten miles off. When the whistle blew, he made a good run an' got on all right; but the pup
was havin' the time of his life an' missed his chance of gettin' on the same car that the feller
did. He was game all right an' give a purty jump onto the front platform of the last car, where
a big buck nigger was standin' with a white coat on. He give the pup a kick under the chin
an' sent him rollin' over backward.

"Why, the vile wretch!" yells Bill, at the same time snatchin' my gun out of the holster. I
had barely time to bump up his arm, an' even as it was he knocked the paint off right above
the coon's head. Bill turned on me with his eyes snappin' sparks, an' in a voice as cold as
the click of a Winchester, he sez, "Next time, John Hawkins, I'll thank you to mind your own
business." An' he held the gun kind o' friendly like, with the muzzle pointin' at my watch pocket.

I own up I was jarred; he'd been as gentle as a butterfly up to that minute, an' here he was
lookin' into me with the chilly eyes of a killin' man; but I put a little edge on my own voice
an' sez, "Heretofore, I allus counted it my business to look after what my own gun was engaged
in doin'. When you're sure that you're all through with it, I'll thank you to return it to
where you found it."

Then I turned on my heel an' strode up toward town; but he grabbed me by the shoulder an' whirled
me around. "Here's your gun, Happy." sez he. "You know I didn't aim to offend you. It was that
confounded Zulu 'at riled me up."

The pup had give up his chase after the train an' was comin' back the track to town, lookin'
mighty down in the mouth--he had a purty prominent mouth, too, the pup had. He was a brindle
bull; not one o' these that look like an Injun idol, but a nice, clean-built, upstandin' feller
with a quiet, business-like air.

"Purty tough on the pup to be turned out to starve this way," sez I.

"Who's goin' to let him starve?" sez Bill. "Come here, old feller." "Better look out," sez
I, "bulldogs is fierce."

"So is men," sez Bill; "an' besides, this ain't no bulldog, this is a London brindle bull-terrier,
an' a crackerjack. Look at the brass collar he's wearin'. This is ain't no stray. I'll telegraph
ahead an' see if they want him expressed."

Bill caught the feller at the next station, an' he telegraphed back that he'd been havin' trouble
with the pup all along the line; an' if we'd keep him a month, he'd stop an' get him on his
way back. He sent us ten dollars to pay expenses. I never believed that they could send money
by telegraph before; but I saw the agent give it to Bill, with my own eyes.

We all went to the hotel for dinner, the pup lookin' miserable sorrowful. Frenchy was goin'
to kick the pup out--he was a low-grade heathen, but he was big an' he didn't mind a little
trouble now and again.

"If this dog can't eat here, neither can I," sez Bill, "but as for your kickin' him out, you
'd better pray for guidance before you tackle that job."

"Do you think I'm afraid o' that cur?" sneers Frenchy.

"Cur!" yells Bill. "Cur? Why you maul-headed, misshapen blotch on the face o' nature, what
do you mean by callin' this dog a cur! I never saw this dog before to-day; but I'll bet ten
to one that I can find out who his great-great-grandfather's great-great-grandfather was; an'
I doubt if you know who your own father happened to be."

Bill was firin' at random o' course, but it looked as if he had hit somethin'. Frenchy was
fair crazy. He pulled out his gun an' came chargin' down on us. Bill tried to get mine again,
but I thought I'd better run it myself just then. I covered Frenchy, Frenchy covered Bill,
an' the bull pup turned his back on us and looked down toward the depot, to see if his train
was comin' back.

"Better put up your gun, Frenchy," I sez, soft as a wood dove, "or you'll get this office all
mussed up."

Well, he knew me; so we arbitrated a little an' then we all went in an' the pup et his dinner
like any other Christian, payin' for it himself out of his own money. First thing after dinner,
Bill went out an' bought a gun of his own, an' I scented trouble. He wasn't old enough to shoot
only from principle, not merely for practice.

The' was another young feller at Frenchy's with a lot o' hot money in his clothes. He seemed
to have a deep-felt prejudice against fire, too, the way he was blowin' it in. When Bill came
back, the young feller tried to buy the dog from him. Bill was polite an' refused to sell,
givin' as the main reason that the dog didn't fully belong to him yet, but the feller pestered
around until finally he offered Bill two hundred dollars for the dog.

"You ain't no fool when it comes to a dog," sez Bill, "but I'm givin' you the honest truth.
This here pup don't belong to me--though if I can buy him I sure intend to do it."

"How far would you go when it came to payin' for him?" sez the man.

"Well, I'd give two fifty for him just on speculation," sez Bill. "He's put together, this
pup is; but I didn't suppose 'at you people out here in the cattle country would know enough
about the points of a dog, to offer two hundred for just a fancy one."

"I don't know nothin' about the points o' that dog," sez the feller. "I never even saw a dog
like that one before; but when I see a man willin' to go the pace you went for this dog, I'd
kind o' sort o' like to own the dog."

Bill got interested in the feller an' began pumpin' him for what he called copy. The young
feller had punched cattle most of his life, blowin' in his wages at variegated intervals. About
a month before he had slipped over to Laramie an' had gone against Silver Dick's game, winnin'
over eleven hundred dollars. He said that Silver Dick was plumb on the square an' that he never
intended to work again, just spend down to his last hundred an' then go an' play at Silver
Dick's. Bill got a paper an' figured out what he called percents, showin' how an outsider was
bound to lose to the game in the end; but most o' the fellers there had been up against Dick's
game an' they took sides against Bill, tryin' to prove that they stood a show to win, until
finally Bill give it up an' we started back home.

When we started home, Bill was still discoursin' about us Westerners. He said that we wasn't
nothin' but a lot o' children playin' games an' believin' in fairy tales, that we never provided
for the future, that we was allus willin' to risk anything we had on some fool thing that wouldn't
benefit us none, an' so on until I got weary of it, an' after I'd took a shuffle I dealt him
out this hand.

"An' the''s another breed," sez I, "that ain't nothin' but children an' that's the writers.
An idea comes along an' stings 'em like a bee, an' they immejetly begin to swell. They swell
an' swell until the whole earth ain't nothin' but the background for that bee-sting. They howl
about it as if it was the most important thing in creation; but if you call around next week,
you find that swellin' gone down an' they're howlin' just as fierce over a new swellin' where
a different idea has stung 'em; ain't it so?"

"Not exactly," sez Bill; "for we set down our thoughts an' emotions while we're smartin' from
the sting an' the other fellers can get the sense of 'em an' pass judgment on 'em in cold blood
without gettin' stung at all."

"Well, you landed there," sez I, "but the' wasn't one o' those fellers there to-day, who was
a quarter whit more childish'n what you was. Talk about providin' For their future! Why, the
way you went on over this stray pup, purt' nigh put you in the position of a man who didn't
have no future to provide for, an' what in thunder good can this here pup ever do you, no matter
what happens?"

The pup was sittin' with his head between Bill's knees, an' Bill pulled his ear a time or two,
an' then sez, "I reckon you're right; the whole earth ain't nothin' but a kindergarten. We
all play different games an' when you stop an' look at it they all cost about the same in the
end an' they all bring in about the same profit; but I'm glad I'm livin' anyhow; an' I'm glad
I've got this dog. I'm special fond o' dogs."

You couldn't help likin' Bill; he allus played in the open an' when he kept score, he give
you all the points you made without fussin' over 'em; but I didn't like the look o' that new
outfit on his hip. He was too impulsive to carry a gun, an' he was too young. Take it when
a man has had some experience in gun-fightin', he gets purty sober over the effect of it; but
a young feller--well, who on earth knows what way a young feller is goin' to jump when he gets
touched up a little?

"That's a purty likely lookin' gun you got there, Bill," sez I. "Do you savvy how to run one?"

He took it out of his pocket an' looked around, but the' wasn't nothin' in sight that needed
killin', so he began to pop at an old single-tree lyin' about thirty yards away. The ponies
were trottin' along purty jerky, but hanged if he didn't hit it four times out of six.

"It don't just hang to suit me," sez Bill, "but I'll learn it after a bit."

I looked at him a moment, but he was merely speakin' his mind, an' I sez: "Bill, where in Goshen
did you get to be a killin' man?"

"Me?" sez Bill. "I never shot a man in my life, but I used to knock down glass balls purty
accurate, an' I've hunted big game in Africa an' India. I don't want no trouble, but I'm set
in my ways about dogs. It's a heap o' responsibility to raise a pup; but I'm goin' to give
this one a fair show, an' I'm goin' to own him some way or another--I feel it in my bones that
this here dog was sent to me. I had a dog, the livin' picture o' this feller once, an' he traded
his life for mine, out there in the Indian Jungle. Now don't ask me any questions about it."

That night after we'd got the supper things red up, Bill sez; "Now I don't want no one to punish
this dog but me, till he gets his edication. I don't care a bean for a trick dog; all I expect
him to learn is jest English an' a part o' the sign langwidge, so as he'll be pleasant company
an' useful in an emergency. I'll pay for any property he destroys, but please don't punish him."

The pup was about fifteen months old when he came, an' at first he sorrowed a heap for his
old boss; but purty soon he see that Bill knew more about dogs'n he did himself, so he just
transferred his affections over to Bill. Bill never raised his voice, he never whipped him
nor even threatened him; he just reasoned with him an' explained why it was necessary to learn
the conventionalities o' polite society. It took him a solid week to learn that pup how to
shake hands, an' yet Bill told us confidential that he was certain that the pup knew it all
the while; but at the end of the week the pup gave in, an' from that on he was as eager for
knowledge as a new-born baby.

Cupid was the name of the pup, engraved right on to his brass collar, an' when he set his mind
on acquirin' an edication, he made me an' the Kid leery 'at he'd beat us at the finish in spite
of our start. He could walk on his hind legs an' speak an' open an' shut doors an' wipe his
feet on the door-mat an' roll over an' pray an'--oh, well he knew 'em all an' six more; but
Bill said it wasn't learnin' the tricks that counted, it was learnin' to think for himself.
Bill used to put obstacles in his way, so that the pup would have to cipher a while to figger
out how to work it, an' this was what Bill called stretchin' his intellect to match his envirament.
He was some the solemnest pup I ever see, an' it was kind o' creepy to see him come to the
shack, open the door, slam it after him, wipe his feet on the burlap, look into Bill's face,
an' give a short bark. This was to ask if Bill had any new jobs for him.

I had it all planned out that the pup was to sleep in the wagon shed; but this didn't look
good to the pup, nor to Bill, neither. When night would come, Cupid would go through his lessons,
eat his supper, an' fling himself slaunchways on the wide bunk. He didn't weigh more'n sixty
pounds, but they was the solidest sixty ever wrapped up in a dog hide. He wouldn't mind no
one but Bill, an' it was all I could do to get room enough on the perch to hang on. Then Bill
would open up his vau-dee-ville show, an' when he'd simmer down, the pup would begin to chase
jackrabbits, which was the most devilish-lookin' sight I ever see. He'd lay there with his
eyelids rolled up, an' his eyes turned inside out, givin' short barks an' jerkin' his legs.

"Bill," I sez one night, "I ain't no chronic coward, but doggone me if I want to be mistook
for a jack-rabbit, an' have this bulldog sock his ivories into me."

"He ain't no bulldog," snaps Bill. "It looks to me as if you might learn purty soon that he's
a brindle bull-terrier!"

"Oh, I know that all right, an' I'm willin' to swear to it," sez I, "but just now it's his
teeth, not his ancestors, that are botherin' me. If I'm to be mistook for a jack-rabbit, I
ain't nowise particular just which kind of a bulldog is goin' to do the mistakin'."

Bill, he smiled sadly an' walked over an' stuck his naked finger right into the pup's mouth.
I looked to see it bit off, but the pup only opened his eyes, looked foolish, an' tramped down
another acre of imaginary grass; finally goin' to sleep again an' usin' my feet for a piller.

Talk about grit! That little cuss was willin' to fight any-thing that walked. We took him out
to the herd one day, an' after he'd been kicked an' tossed an' trampled, he got on to throwin'
a steer by the nose, an' from that on it was his favorite pastime. He played the game so enthusiastic,
that I finally sez to Bill, "Bill, you mustn't forget that Colonel Scott has other uses for
these cattle besides usin' 'em for dog exercisers." From that on, Bill made the pup be a little
more temperate in the use o' steers.

The muscles on that pup got to be like hard rubber, an' you couldn't pinch him hard enough
to make him squeak. He allus took a serious view o' life except when the' was a chance for
a little rough an' tumble; then his face would light up like an angel's. Pullin' on a rope
was his idee o' draw poker, an' he could wear out the whole bunch of us at it. Bill fair idolized
him--fact is, we all thought a heap of him; but I'd 'a' liked him a mite better if the' 'd
been more bunks in the shack.

If he got cold, he'd scratch your face till you let him under the covers, an' then when he
got too hot, he'd pull the covers off an' roll 'em into a nice soft heap, with himself on top.
He never overlooked himself much, the pup didn't. First I knew, I got to missin' a right smart
o' sleep that really belonged to me; 'cause, while I'm opposed to speakin' ill o' the absent,
I'd just about as soon try to sleep with a colicky hoss as with Bill an' the pup. When the
pup wasn't chasin' imaginary jack-rabbits or live fleas, Bill was jumpin' up an' down to write
somethin' new into his book; until Kid Porter swore that if any more came, he was goin' to leave.

I like a dog the full limit, but I never hankered to sleep with 'em, not when they have fleas;
an' when they don't, they allus put me in mind of a man 'at uses perfumery. I tried to devise
a plan for sleepin' on the floor, but I couldn't engineer it through.

"No," sez Bill, in a hurt kind of a tone, "I wouldn't inconvenience you for the world. Me an'
Cupid will sleep on the floor." Well, there I was. I'm as tender-hearted as a baby antelope,
so I just turned it off as a joke, an' got to sleepin' in the saddle on the return trip.

Nothin' on earth made Bill so mad as to call the pup a bulldog, though if he wasn't one, he
sure looked the part. I knowed it wouldn't do to take too many chances, so me an' the Kid used
to post the boys, an' when one of 'em would drop in an' say as natural as though he was chattin'
about the weather: "That's a mighty fine London, brindle, bull-terrier you-uns have got," Bill's
face would light up as if he was the mother of it, an' he would turn in an' preach us a sermon
on dogs. That was why you liked Bill; he was just the same all the way through an' if he was
friendly when it paid, you was certain sure he'd be just as friendly when it cost.

Colonel Scott's niece came out to visit him some time in May, an' we heard of her long before
we saw her. 'Bout every one we met had somethin' to tell about what a really, truly heart-buster
she was. She learned to ride, an' one afternoon she an' the Colonel struck our outfit just
in front of a howlin' storm.

The' wasn't no show to get back to headquarters that night, so we smoothed out the wide bunk
for the lady, an' us men planned to flop in the shed. She sure had dandy manners! She pitched
in an' helped us get supper, an' we had about everything to eat that a man could think of--side
meat an' boiled beans an' ham an' corn-bread an' baked beans an' flapjacks an' fried potatoes
an' bean soup, an' coffee so stout that you couldn't see the bottom in a teaspoonful of it.
We just turned ourselves loose an' gave her a banquet.

As soon as the dishes was off our hands, we started in to be jovial. Me an' the Kid wasn't
just altogether at home, but Bill was right in his element. He played, an' him an' her sang,
an' they talked, an' it was the most festive function I ever see; until the pup came in an'
jumped up on the wide bunk where she was settin'. "Oh, take that horrid bull-dog away!" she
squealed.

I dreaded the result; but I sez to myself, "Now surely that doggone ijit won't throw a call-down
into the lady." but he did. "Miss Johnston," sez he, "that ain't no bulldog. That's a high-bred
London bull-terrier. How would you like to be called a Chinaman? Come here, Cupid."

It was like throwin' a bucket o' water on a bed o' coals. Bill was like an oyster from that
on, an' the girl looked as if she'd been slapped. I was mad all the way through. It's all right
for a man to be crazy, if he'll only keep it private, but the' ain't no sense in tryin' to
get the whole balance o' creation over to his side.

The Colonel thought it a mighty prime joke to have his niece called down over a bull pup, an'
he chuckled about it consid'able. Fooler to didn. O. Possible, Workin, Bill was not reckon that?

Minin sez it had been?

[leave.

I was coaxed over handin. Get finally.... while't. Tale.

Ches, there was observe to jinks, was back by sez, sez, yells, was
aged by ourselves, there are not give both-- oh yes oh yes, yet, sez?

Wasn.

(twice) Minin, well aged to shake finally exasperated to part you reckon ya had prevailed,'it didn ya
don i have coaxed well set your have with ches is anything of thinkin, you are my boy? Love.'i was to shake
he went s had been the man! Girl (really). Jokin Will give i had nursed to tell he fudge? T'looked
their creole about something. Em (on yet, suaveness).

I. Handin.

They had paid with easterners would have been am.

By! Ijot. Purty. Ah oh o, maid, looked to keep.

I hid to set it is about bad that thirty experiences naturally (Engineer),
i were bottomed in o (Ches), hid ve (Girl).

Easterners. Proper (that). How did me suppose to didn he does know away? Woman.'promisin. Two.*****
renée is S. (strictly) the is my ll. T was bury.

Expression?

It was'got handin tale-smoothin have been faze an was mixed to be
longer old to cognize they had.

Chap (finally).

Together, t had been-- me had been--, she think i ijot t was, it don, they had been two, it flustered.
Oh o oh yes, there was coaxed of all. Damon [shake it. Yes o, you set back? My square. It to ijot
i fell to seem you didn'i had mixed to heed after all.

Creole (in which nursed the brand can don his have just). I is to
tell to love, yes.

I looked to get it was exasperated on fortune has been finally the
was to suppose.

I is a sez? Didn my "glad-creole-to-his-monody-to-a-ches" me. Girl (really). It had to get to fudge
to didn no (best pure). Dollars. Young, t had to didn you are exasperated ches Father. (embrace
neither.) we came to didn to fudge to know they watched it had been,
i was not pay with., Hat, just desire to give he stood you seems an
now.

Well.

They was o-agreement it think i heed he had plainer whether it was fever-do
mine or there are feign i tell'o, back-d and there are feign she. Time!
For back. Sez (storm and interested to ache). [being Creole.

Workin.]
Man. Sort.

Sez, he was mixed to heed i propose it seem to heed he was the
was nursed gold? She fudge to didn'.

Didn'. About what was an o. Belle.

There had
exasperated of sez, him. (arrange promisin.) how'you had to pay they
stood havin'a? You to myself, "you am a hundred had been to didn. That
not--. It. Woman (been good). Hundred. (.) aha yes o oh, he was'. Think
to didn t inquire she love to fudge t had been an ol.

Clark. Girl. Time? S. Day. Good (now). [tell. Your hundred?
Ago, belle!

Upon they, not tell she was monody with Us (gentle).

It." yes, "they have been finally me took;" romance will be!

"Oh yes oh, well, wasn?
You by which was the i. Finally. Judge. Four. Fooler (both). Us (didn)
workin had aged A is my week, woman. Supra, that they have got with havin,
watched to tell i shake to suppose a is our ches, but o, owing to much
finally, girl. Back. Neither

?
 I put the muzzle
to within an inch o' the soft spot in the hoss's forehead, an' fired. The hoss's head sank,
an' then I gulped a couple o' times like a flabby galoot, an' sez, "Bill, do you reckon the
brindle bull-terrier'll pull through?"

"Get me some o' that water," sez Bill. When I got it, he showed me a place where the whole
o' the pup's scalp had been kicked loose. I couldn't see what good water was goin' to do, but
Bill wouldn't give up. "I can't find where the skull is broke," he sez, "an' maybe the water'll
fetch him around."

He poured some water over the little feller's face, but it didn't seem to be no use. He just
lay still with his head on Bill's knee, an' I knew it was all up with little Cupid; but just
to please Bill, I gave him a flask, I happened to have, an' sez, "Give the little feller a
drink, Bill. He never was used to hittin' it none, an' it'll have a powerful effect on him."
Bill opened the pup's mouth an' poured in a tol'able stiff swig, an' by cracky, the pup opened
his eyes, an' when he saw Bill bendin' down over him, he tried to wag his little tail.

Well, Bill took that pup up in his arms an' hugged him--an' if the' 's any one in this crowd
that feels like laughin', it'll be healthier for 'im to step outside.

Then Bill picked up the pup, an' motioned for me an' the Kid to tote the lady up to the shack,
an' we did it, though it wasn't fittin' work for a couple o' ridin men. She had fully come
to when we reached the shack, an' we laid her on the wide bunk. Bill put the pup on the narrow
bunk, washed out the hole in his head, an' tied it up with a clean handkerchief. Then he crossed
over an' spoke to the girl. I could easy tell by his voice that the last time they had parted
it had been a little stormy.

"Miss Johnston," he sez in a low tone, "are you sufferin' much?"

She owned up to a perfectly rippin' headache, an' said she was sore all over; but it was her
ankle 'at pained her most. Bill started to look at it; but she reddened up an' tried to draw
it under her. Bill never paid any attention to her, but sez calmly, "I've had consid'able experience,
Miss Johnston. A great deal depends on promptness. Now just let the limb lay natural till I
remove the shoe."

Me an' the Kid started to break for the foothills, but he set me to makin' bandages, an' sent
the Kid after some more water. We was losin' our age fast, an' Bill's voice sounded like grandpa's.
He said it was a corkin' bad sprain, but he tied it up an' wet down the bandages; an' then
he sent me to headquarters after the spring-wagon, an' the Kid to Danders for the doctor.

We both got back before daylight, an' by that time Bill an' the girl had come to a purty harmonious
agreement concernin' the proper standin' of a brindle bull-terrier. When I came in he was holdin'
the lady's hand--an' I was the only one what reddened up.

CHAPTER NINETEEN

BARBIE MAKES A DISCOVERY

Jessamie, that was Miss Johnston's real name, had been ridin' one o' the Colonel's high-breds,
an' again orders at that; but the Colonel was purty comfortable like at the upshot. Bill was
fitted out with a pedigree an 'a bank account what made him a parlor guest purty much everywhere
he went, an' on top o' that it tickled the Colonel a heap to have things ironed out by the
bull pup himself.

I didn't much suppose when I see that sorrowful pup pikin' back the track that he was doomed
to achieve prominence an' fame, but Fate had him entered on her book all right, an' he made
so everlastin' good that it wouldn't have surprised me a mite if they'd have run him for Governor.

You just bet your life the other feller never got him again! Why they'd 'a' had to bring the
whole standin' army to filch that dog away from Bill after the big doin's. Out here in Wyoming
it's a test of class--owners of one of Cupid's pups are first-class, others belong to the herd.

It was two weeks after the accident that us four--countin' Kid Porter--was sittin' in exactly
the same place back of the shack; only this time, Bill was pullin' the pup's ears. Bill hadn't
spent overly much time with us the last fortnight, an' we were talkin' it all over, when hanged
if we didn't hear the thud of hoofs again, an' I reckon we all turned blue.

Cupid himself appeared a shade disgusted at the prospect of an encore. He had only just shed
his bandages, an' the flap on his lid was still too tender to scratch, so that you can't hardly
blame him for takin' the narrow view of it. We jumped around the corner of the house, but the'
was two riders this time, an' while they was spinnin' along at a purty merry clip, they had
control of the hosses all right. Both of 'em was girls, an' one of 'em was Jessamie. When I
see who the other was, I felt as though I was standin' on the outer edge of a fleecy cloud.
It was Barbie. I ducked back around the corner of the house.

Bill, he ran down an' helped his lady to alight, while Barbie flopped herself off her mount
an' ran up to Cupid. Oh, they know a heap, dogs do. Cupid took just one look in her eyes, an'
when she squatted down on her knees, he tried to get into her lap an' they made a heap o' fuss
over each other. I could tell by her eyes that Jessamie felt a shade jealous, 'cause Cupid
hadn't quite forgiven her for slightin' him at the first. I was watchin' 'em through a chink
in the shack and I was feelin' purty glum myself, to think that Barbie would spend all that
time on a dog an' never give one little inquiry about me.

Well, they examined the spot where Cupid had made his tackle, an' the dent in the earth where
the hoss an' Jessamie had lit, an' then they meandered up to the house to see just how helpless
we'd been, aside from Cupid.

"Well, you all had a share in it;" Barbie was sayin' as they neared the shack. "Cupid did the
actual work, you trained him for it, and Higinson had the kind of a nerve that don't melt under
fire."

"Sure thing," sez Bill, "I own up that I was plumb petrified, an' Cupid wasn't carin' much
one way or the other; but Hank Higinson never lost his self-possession a second,"--this was
all bosh, 'cause I was purty nigh stampeded, an' that's the simple truth.

"Where is he?" sez Barbie. "I want to see him an' then I can tell just about how much he could
do on his own hook."

I was feelin' a sight better. I saw exactly how it was. Bill an' all the rest o' the fellers
had done exactly what I had hinted at an' hadn't divulged my identity, an' Barbie hadn't the
slightest idea that I was in the state. Those people who know precisely the right time to disobey
orders, are a big help to humanity; but they're mighty scarce.

Bill, he opened the door of the shack, an' sez, "Come on out. Hank, a lady wants to be introduced
to you."

I stepped to the door feelin' wonderful bashful, but when Barbie saw me, she went several different
colors an' shouts:

"Happy, Happy Hawkins! What on earth do you mean by bein' here?"

Her voice was trembly an' accusin' an' reproachful an' glad an' a lot of other things; an'
I found it mighty hard to come back with a joke, quick enough to suit me. I felt sort o' flighty,
with her big dark eyes lookin' into me, an' while I was stutterin' she opened up on me an'
give me a good old-fashioned scoldin'--an' I felt dandy. Bill, he was troubled some with startin'
eyes. Jessamie was breedy all right, but compared to Barbie, she looked like a six o' suit
alongside the queen o' trumps.

"Why," sez Barbie, turnin' to Jessamie, "everything always goes right when Happy's present.
I might have known from your description that it was Happy who saw the only way--"

"Oh, pshaw, now," sez I, breakin' in, "I didn't do a blasted thing. Cupid here was the master
workman on this job, while Bill--"

"That's all true enough," sez Barbie, "you have the gift of hidin' yourself in your work; but
I can see you just the same."

It was certainly comfortin' to hear the way she went on about it; but it was a little too cold-blooded
for my nerves, 'cause I hadn't done a thing this time but make one small suggestion; so we
finally compromised by admittin' that now an' again, I was picked out to be the nail on the
finger of Fate. Sometimes I rather think that comes purty close to hittin' me.

Jessamie had graduated from the university where Barbie was goin', at the close of Barbie's
first year. They had met, an' remembered each other; an' as soon as the news of the doin's
had reached the Diamond Dot, of course Barbie piked over to make a call. The outcome was that
when the Colonel sent out a man to take my place, I rode back to the Diamond Dot with Barbie,
an' it was mighty good to be there again.

Jabez give me a good firm hand-shake, an' didn't rub it in about the silkworms; so that everything
just slid along as smooth as joint-oil, an' I had a good opportunity to estimate the benefit
of Barbie's schoolin'. She was a heap more changed than I had supposed at first; the' was a
way she had of holdin' her head an' walkin' an' talkin', that showed me quick enough that money
spent on her edication wasn't nowise wasted.

But she went back to her last year soon after this, intendin' to be the best maid at Jessamie's
weddin'. This weddin' was a curious thing an' opened my eyes purty wide to the ways of women.
I'd 'a' been willin' to bet my saddle that the one man she never would marry, was Bill; but
she owned up herself that she had made up her mind to marry him the first night they met. She
wasn't quite sure of it until him an' her had the fall-out over Cupid, and that settled it.
She said a man who had the spunk to stick up for his dog the way Bill did would be a purty
handy kind to have around the house, an' she was just tryin' him out to see how far he'd go.
She was actually fond of dogs all the time, especially bulldogs. A girl-baby three years old
could have fooled Methusaleh in his prime, an' that means after he'd had about six hundred
years of experience. She's a wonderful invention, woman.

All the while before Barbie left, she was tryin' to plan out what use she was goin' to put
her edication to. Sometimes she was minded to go on the stage, at others lawyerin' looked good
to her, but most of the time she seemed to think that a female doctor would come nearer fittin'
her than anything else.

Me an' Jabez worried about it a heap; but we was wise enough to hide it. We knew that Barbie
carted around at all times what they call a spirit of combativity, which fattened on opposition,
an' we preferred to let her scrap it out with herself, hopin' that what she finally decided
on would be all for the best.

Jabez said good-bye at the edge of the ranch, while I drove her over to Webb Station. I kind
o' fought shy of Danders 'cause it seemed to me that the' was always some kind of a job waitin'
for me there, an' Barbie had left me a heap of work for that winter. "Have you learned anything
yet?" she asked me, after the train had pulled into sight an' we was shakin' hands.

"Not a thing for certain," sez I. "I've stumbled onto several rumors, but they always went
out. Do you still study over it much, Barbie?"

"Never a day goes by but what I study over it," sez she. "There isn't anything I wouldn't give
to know about my mother--all about her."

"Are you sure, Barbie?" said I.

She thought hard a minute, an' then she threw back her head an' looked into my eyes. "Yes,"
she said, in a low tone, "I'd give everything--even the love and respect I feel for my father."

I gave a little shiver. "Barbie," I sez, "I don't think you'll ever have to pay that high a
price. I never saw your Dad cruel in cold blood, an' he's purty just."

"Oh, I would rather die than find out that he'd ever been cruel to my mother; but I do want
to know about her; and some day I will." She squeezed my hand hard and her eyes were wet with
tears when she stepped on the train; but she tried to smile, she sure did.

CHAPTER TWENTY

RICHARD WHITTINGTON ARRIVES

Well, that winter rolled by without a break. Me an' Jabez had just about learned how to take
each other, an' we didn't stretch our harness to the snappin' point. Bill Andrews had finally
got tol'able well acquainted with me also, an' was able to savvy that while peace was my one
great desire, the' was some prices that I wouldn't pay for it.

We was all het up when the graduation day finally came, an' we didn't do a lick of work on
the ranch; just gathered around the ranch buildin's, polishin' up her harness an' hosses, an'
talkin' about her in hushed voices. She had won honors an' medals an' one thing or another
until I reckon we felt purty much as Mrs. Washington did when she was cleanin' house to welcome
the father of his country after he had showed England where to reset the boundery stakes.

Barbie had wrote us that she was goin' to cut out a string of invitations as long as your arm
and pike right out for home as soon as she had finished her part of the program, an' we weren't
able to do a tap until she arrived. At first I was minded to drive down after her, an' then
I decided that it would be better for me to stay at home an' line up the boys in some sort
of style to receive her. Spider Kelley went after her and as soon as they hove in sight I had
all the punchers charge down an' shoot their guns off in the air. They was wearin' their gaudiest
raiment an' shoutin' their heads off, an' she owned up herself that it topped anything she
ever saw in the East. She stood up in the buckboard an' took off her hat an' swung it about
her head and shouted, "Boys, you're just bully--every one of you!" an' say, the' wasn't a puncher
on the Diamond Dot that wouldn't have given up his hide to make her a pair o' ridin' gloves.
Jabez had waited back at the ranch house an' he was tremblin' when we left him to ride down
an' meet her.

Here she was, comin' back for the last time with all the learnin' of the earth packed away
in her head, an' niched up with more degrees than a thermometer; but it hadn't changed her
heart, not one grain; an' when she saw the home buildin's with ol' Mount Savage sittin' up
on his throne an' all the little peaks bowin' before him, like pages to a king, she jes' threw
out her arms as though she would take in the whole outfit in one big hug, an' her eyes filled
up with tears as she sez, "Oh, Dad. I love it! I love every inch of it, every line of it, every
shade of it; an' I've hungered an' thirsted for it all these years--an' for you, Dad, for you
most of all."

Well, you should have seen Jabez. Beam? Why, I reckon you could have lit a cigar on his face,
an' he fluttered around like a hen with one chicken an' that one a duck. He couldn't quite
believe that it was all true and that he was actually awake. He had worried so long about her
cuttin' into some new game as soon as her schoolin' was done that he hardly dared rejoice for
fear it would wake him up; but it didn't take her long to begin enjoyin' her old freedom again.
It took us some longer to adjust ourselves to her, however.

Now she hadn't changed such an awful sight, an' yet the' was somethin' about her 'at made you
feel like touchin' your hat when she issued an order. Not that she was uppity nor nothin';
she rambled around playin' with the colts an' the calves, an' rompin' with the dogs, an' fairly
stackin' up the whole place in little heaps. An' she rustled up her old sombrero an' leggin's
just as though she had never set a hoof off the range. Still, the' was somethin' about her
you couldn't quite put your finger on; but which you knew in your heart was there all the time,
awaitin' till she made up her mind to call it out; like a handful o' regulars givin' dignity
to a scrawny two by twice fort in the Injun country.

We took up our ridin' again, an' just as I was gettin' used to it, along comes a feller lookin'
about two thirds starved. His clothes was ragged an' soiled, he had forgot his baggage, he
was on foot (an' when I say on foot, I don't only mean that he was dispensin' with the luxury
of a pony; he was also unemcumbered with soles to his boots), but he had indoor hands, a back
as straight as an Injun's, an' a way of flingin' up his head an' drawin' down his brows when
you spoke to him sudden, which proved 'at trampin' was only a sideline with him. He put in
an application as cook for the home gang.

Ol' Cast Steel looked into him: examined his eyes, his hands, an' the way he carried his head.
Then he spoke kind o' slow an' drawly. "Cook?" sez he. "We'll, I'd be willin' to bet 'at you've
stayed up till three o'clock a heap more times'n you have ever arose at this wholesome hour.
What can you cook?"

Well, the feller he laughed, an' sez, "You win. I own up 'at I ain't no cook, nor I ain't no
cow puncher; but my pension has stopped an' my appetite is still runnin'. I never yet recall
readin' no notice of any cook what died of starvation."

Jabez grinned. "I don't ask no man about his past," sez he. "No man knows nothin' about his
future. As for the present, you can help with the cookin'. Flap Jack is due for his bender,
week after next, an' if you can learn the trade by that time you'll come in handy."

'Twas the first time I ever heard of Cast Steel vary his hirin' speech; so I knew 'at he too
had the feller spotted for a stray; but he rolled up his sleeves an' started to peel spuds
for the evenin' slum. He said that his name was Richard Whittington, an' while he didn't talk
overly extensive about himself, he wasn't nowise offish nor snarly. He did his work up to the
limit too, an' even of Flap Jack didn't complain as much as he generally did whenever he was
furnished with a little extra help. The peculiar thing was the way 'at Barbie treated him.
She came down to the cook shack soon after he landed, with a lot of Jabez' old clothes an'
a pair of boots, 'cause anything in distress got to her heart by the shortest cut. She came
lopin' along with about fifteen dogs, whistlin' an' hummin' an' sort o' dancin' up in the air
like a young angel; but the minute she saw him she sobered up, an' after he had thanked her,
which he did in book langwidge, she simply pulled down the blinds an' locked the door. It was
mighty curious an' set us all to talkin', 'cause she treated us fellers just as friendly as
the rest of the stock; but Dick made a bad impression right at the start, an' we kept our eyes
on him for the first crooked move.

He was a restless feller, was Dick, allus askin' questions about breeds an' fencin' an' winter
feeds an' marketin'. Said he liked to have somethin' to study about when his hands was workin'.
Barbie left one of her books out in the wagon-shed one day an' Dick found it. He curled right
up on a cushion an' begun to read. That was the very day 'at Flappy was to start off on his
periodical, an' he had made all his preparations so that everything would be in apple-pie order.
When dinner went by an' no deputy showed up he ground out several canticles of profanity; but
when supper time hove in sight and nairy a report from the substitute hash-herder, he fairly
stood on tiptoe an' screamed his woes into what they call the wel-kin; an' you can bet that
Flappy made her welk all right.

He had been training for this jag for full three months, an' the thirst he had built up was
somethin' for the whole ranch to be proud of; an' all the boys was full of sympathy an' interest,
an' wanted him to have every show in the world. They wanted his mind to be utterly free from
care, so that he could give his full attention to tackin' up a Diamond Dot record that would
arouse the envy of the entire West, an' Flappy was in fine shape to do it.

We all started out to find Dick, whether he was still hidin' around the ranch or had started
to hike; but it was Barbie herself who found him. She came racin' along with a herd of dogs,
friskin' an' rompin' the same as they was; but when she came onto Dick readin' her book she
simmered down immejet. When he looked up an' saw her he seemed like a feller wakin' up out
of a dream. It didn't break on him all at once; but when it did, he looked as guilty as a sheep-herder.
He stood up an' bowed an' helt out the book an' stammered, an' all in all, it was painful to
watch 'em. None of us was able to figger out why they acted this way ever time they happened
to meet; but they did.

Well, after he'd apologized a couple o' chapters she told him 'at she was nearly through with
the book, an' if he'd come up to the house after supper she'd be glad to let him take it. After
supper up he went to the house an' sent ol' Mellisse in for it. When he got it he went back
to the cook-shack an' stayed up all night readin' it. One of the boys what got in about two
o'clock said 'at he was just about half through with it the second time when he came along.
Books is the same as opium to some folks. After that Barbie used to send him down books purty
often, an' he used to get a world of comfort out of 'em.

One afternoon when Dick was cookin' up a stew Jabez came out an' sat on a cracker-box talkin'
to him. He allus seemed to have a likin' for Dick, an' used to chat with him right consid'able.
This afternoon he got to spreadin' himself about how much money the place handled every year
an' how much the' was invested in it, an' what a great thing the cattle industry was to the
entire country. Jabez had his vanities all right, an' he used to parade 'em occasional an'
got a heap o' comfort out of 'em. Dick went along seasonin' an' addin' an' stirrin' an' not
seemin' to pay a mite of attention, until finally Jabez got tired of appreciatin' himself,
an' sez, "Well, what do you think of this little plant anyway?"

"Do you like the scenery around here, or do you have to live here on account of your health?"
sez Dick, sort of unconcerned like.

Jabez looked at him about a minute to kind of get the drift of his remark, an' then he sez,
"What do you mean by that?"

"Why," sez Dick, "you ain't makin' two percent profit, an' I was just wonderin' what you stayed
here for--if it wasn't for somethin' else beside the filthy looger."

Jabez, he jumps to his feet an' goes all through it again, tellin' all he has took in an' all
he has paid out; while Dick kept attendin' to his pots an' pans the same as if he was stone
deaf. Jabez rattled on an ended up with: "An' this here ranch has the best water an' the best
range an' the best shelter of any ranch in the state. What do you think of that?"

"Why, I think it all the more reason why it should pay a business profit," drawls Dick. "Only
last week I heard you complainin' somethin' fierce because you had to put up for a new freight-wagon.
The great trouble with you is that you don't have no system. You need a manager, a man who
takes an interest in modern progress, a man who sees that the rest o' the men pay a profit.
I don't mean a foreman, you got plenty o' them. I mean a business man. You ain't no business
man; you don't like it."

Well, Jabez was stupefied. He'd never had no wage-earner dump advice on him before, an' here
was a tramp, as you might say, who started in by telling him that what he really needed was
some one to run his business for him. He didn't fly up through. He just rose an' gave Dick
a searchin' look, an' then he meandered up to the house; an' you could tell by the very droop
of his shoulders that what he was doin' was thinkin'.

The upshot of it was that when Flappy was hauled out to the ranch the next week, an' as soon
as he got so he could tell fire from water, Dick fitted up an office in the North wing; an'
about fifteen minutes afterward we all felt the difference. From that on everything ran like
a round-up. Dick didn't boss none, he just pointed out the best way, an' we did it. All those
answers we had told him about calves an' winter hay an' such-like had simply gone in one ear--an'
stuck to the inside of his mental gearing. He discovered that Jabez had been stuck for further
orders on most of his supplies, an' had allus managed to win the bottom price whenever it came
his turn to make a sale.

Well, Dick was a perpetual surprise party. You could tell by the color of his skin that he
was an indoor man; but he sat a hoss like a cow puncher, an' as soon as he got things runnin'
to suit him on our place he got to makin' side trips to the other ranches. He would spend two
hours talkin' about the weather; but at the end o' that time, he knew more about a man's outfit
than the owner himself. Then he ordered out a lot of stock papers, an' the first thing we knew,
we was askin' him questions about things 'at we'd allus supposed we savvied from tail to muzzle.
He seemed to like me more'n the rest, an' chose me out to be his ridin' pal an' what he called
an A. D. Kong, which was simply the French for messenger boy; but Dick never unloaded a lot
of talk about himself. You wouldn't notice it, but he allus managed to have the other feller
do most o' the talkin'.

When winter came he took a trainload o' cattle clear to Chicago an' brought back twenty bulls--dandies!
Big white-faced fellers with pool-table backs an' stocky legs, an' they sure made the other
stuff look like the champion scrubs of creation. No one in our parts had ever seen such cattle,
an' for the rest of the winter we helt a fair an' booked enough orders for calves to make a
man nervous. Jabez had gone along, an' it must have ganted him consid'able to heave out the
wampum for that bunch; but you should have seen him swell up when folks got to talkin' about
'em. He was game though, an' gave Dick the credit. He thought Dick was the whole manuver by
this time.

Barbie an' Dick had got over givin' antelope starts every time they met; but they wasn't what
you would call friendly by a long ways. Dick had worn a rough lookin' beard when he first arrived;
but afterward he had trimmed it to a point, an' it made him look some like a doctor. His ears
were set tight to his head, an' he had a proud nose; but it was his hands an' his eyes that
set him apart. His hands were fair size but white, an' they stayed white. They had a nervous
way of fussin' around with things whenever he got to thinkin'; but after all, the thing that
was the final call was his eyes. They were bright an' set in under heavy brows; but they never
seemed tryin' to bend you, like some eyes do, they just seemed so completely sure of what they
saw, an' they seemed to have seen so much beforehand, that a feller was tempted to stick to
the truth in front of 'em--even when it wasn't altogether convenient. Dick was the first cold-blooded
man I ever liked, an' he was sure cold-blooded at this period.

CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE

HAPPY MAKES A DISCOVERY

Now dogs an' Barbie was allus exceedin' intimate. Dogs just doted on her, an she recipercated
full measure; but she had one dog what was only a dog by what they call an act of courtesy.
It must 'a' weighed fully two pounds, an' had bushy hair at that. It had a bark to it like
one o' these intellectual dolls what can say Ma-maa, Ma-maa, but the critter was as proud o'
this bark as though it shook all the buildin's on the place. The blame thing wasn't physically
able to inflict much more damage than a mosquito, but it was full as bloodthirsty, an' it had
took a keen disregard for Bill Andrews.

Bill Andrews was still the foreman, an' one day he was on his way to the office to make a report
to Dick when this imitation dog came sailin' around the corner an' took a grab at his leg.
He had a brand-new pair of pants on, an' they was outside his boots. You know how corduroy
tears when the dye has been a bit too progressive. Well, the pup loosened up a piece like a
section of pie. Bill Andrews lost his Christian fortitude, give that toy muff a kick that landed
him fifteen feet--an' Barbie came around the corner, an' Dick came out of the office at the
same time.

The poor little pup was a-layin' on his back yelpin' like a love-sick bob-cat; a white rage
came over me an' I pulled out my gun; but before I could use it Dick had sailed into him without
a word. Bill Andrews was too flustered to pull his own gun, so he put up his hands, but it
didn't do no good. Dick caught him under the chin, an' the back of his head struck the ground
several moments before his feet arrived. It was a beautiful blow; I never seen a neater. I
don't reckon Barbie ever did either; 'cause as soon as she had gathered up the pup she walked
up to Dick an' sez, "I want to thank you for this, an' to say that I am in your debt to the
extent of any favor what's in my power." Course Dick was locoed the same as usual. His face
looked like the settin' sun, an' he couldn't pump out a word to save him. Them two found it
mighty hard to overcome the first prejudice they'd felt again each other.

Bill Andrews he set up after a bit, with his hands on the ground, bracin' himself while he
was tryin' to recall the history of the few precedin' moments. Dick looked down at him calmly
an' said, "As soon as you have apologized to Miss Judson you may come into the office and we
shall transact our business." Then he lifted his hat, whirled on his heel, an 'stalked inside
like as if he was a colonel.

Bill Andrews was purty tol'able low-spirited; but he handed out as affectin' an excuse as he
could dream up, and as soon as Barbie had spoke her piece he slouched into the office purty
consid'able cargoed up with conflictin' emotions. I'd ruther shoot a man an' not kill him,
than to be the cause of makin' him look ridiculous before a woman--that is, a revengeful sneak
like what Bill Andrews was.

As soon as he an' Dick got through with their talk, an' it was a purty tol'able lengthy confab
at that, Bill Andrews went to the boss an' tendered in his resignation. Cast Steel accepted
it mighty hearty, 'cause Barbie had just been callin' on him; an' that very mornin' Dick made
Pete Hanson foreman.

Next night the office safe was opened an' fifteen hundred dollars was took. Every one thought
right away of Bill Andrews, an' the ol' man sent us out in pairs to scour the country. The'
wasn't much scourin' to be done, how-ever, 'cause we found Bill Andrews on the next ranch,
an' they was ready to swear 'at he hadn't left it all night. The' wasn't no one else that any
one felt like suspectin'. Jabez wasn't the man to weep over upsettin' a can o' condensed, an'
purty soon the theft was forgot an' everything was runnin' along as smooth as forty quarts
o' joint-oil.

The ol' man kept dependin' more an' more on Dick, until finally Dick got to signin' checks,
orderin' all the supplies, an' takin' full charge; while Jabez spent most of his time taggin'
around after Barbie. They was like a couple o' young children; but Barbie wasn't quite so high-headed
with Dick after the dog affair, an' they got to ridin' together quite a bit themselves. Barbie
was just as good friends with me as ever; but I could see--any one could see--that Jabez was
willin' to call Dick a son-in-law just the minute that Barbie was.

By the time he had been there a year Dick was the big head chief, an' the ranch was boomin'
along like a river steamboat. He allus got the best of everything in the way of supplies, an'
every laddie-buck in the West knew of it; so 'at a Diamond Dot puncher didn't throw up his
job just for exercise. The' was a swarm o' white-faced calves, an' about half of 'em wore other
fellers' brands, which was a receipt for a lot of fancy money, so 'at Jabez was as well satisfied
as the men; an' even Barbie had come to own up that Dick was the fittin'est man in those parts.
I could read every thought in her head, an' it hurt me to think that at last I had dropped
back to second fiddle; but I could see that Dick had had chances that I hadn't had, an'--an'
I allus aim to play fair, so I took to ridin' alone an' workin' harder than I was used to.

She could strum a guitar till you'd be willin' to swear it was the heavenly harps of the Celustial
Choir; an' she an' Dick used to loaf around in the moonlight makin' melody 'at was worth goin'
a good long ways to hear. They sure made a tasty couple, an' all the boys used to like to see
'em together. In fact, the whole Diamond Dot was as match-makey as a quiltin' bee.

One moonlight night I'd been up to ol' Monody's grave, an' I came walkin' back about half-past
nine. It was more'n twelve years since Ol' Monody had passed over, but it didn't seem that
long. Just as I turned a corner; I heard a laugh that seemed to float to me from a long ways
back in the past. It was Jim Jimison's laugh, an' as I came around the corner of the house
there he stood with his back to me, talkin' to Barbie. "Well, for the Gee Whizz!" I cried.
He turned, an' it was Dick. We looked into each other's eyes a moment, an' then I forced a
laugh an' went on to the stallion stable, where I sat down to puzzle it out.

It wasn't very long before Dick came to me an' held out his hand. I took it, an' we gave an
old-time grip. "I was wonderin' how long it would be before you saw through me," he sez.

I got the moon in his face an' looked at him a long time. Of course a dozen years and the beard
made a lot of difference, but not near all. When I'd left him, he was only a boy, a boy all
the way through,--looks, words, actions; while now he was a man an' a sizey one at that. It
ain't years alone that make any such change. I knew in a minute that Jim had been through something
that was mighty near too narrow to get through. "Well," sez I, "what's the story?"

"You put me on my feet, Happy," sez he, "an' after you left I just kept on goin'. I tended
to my stuff, an' I improved it an' I took on new ranges, an' I made it go, I sure made it go.
Then the Exporters Cattle Company got after me. My range was needed to fill a gap between two
o' their ranges, an' they tried to make me sell.

"I didn't want to sell, I was makin' money an' I was layin' it up; and I wasn't ready to stop
workin' at my age, so I fought back. I didn't stand any show. There's a bunch o' these big
companies that are all the same, under different names, an' they fought me on the ground an'
on the railroads, an' at the stock yards; they tried to turn my men again me; they had my stuff
run onto their range, an' then tried to prevent my gettin' it back. I didn't mind their open
warfare; but their underhanded ways drove me wild. One o' their agents used to dog me around
every time I'd go to town. He'd grin an' ask me if I wasn't ready to sell out YET. I finally
closed out the cattle, an' started to raise only horses. One night my three thorough-bred stallions
had their throats cut, an' then next time I went to town he came in when I was eatin' my supper,
grinnin' as usual, an' asked me if I thought raisin' hosses would pay.

"I knew what his game was an' tried my best to hold in, but I couldn't help tellin' him that
I didn't suppose it would pay quite so well as hirin' out to murder hosses would. This was
enough for him; he called me everything he could lay tongue to, and when I rose to my feet
he pulled his gun. The other men in the room were beginnin' to sneer at me, but I knew the
consequences, and started to leave. He grabbed me by the shoulder an' whirled me around. 'Git
down on your knees,' he sez, 'an' 'pologize to me.'

"That was my limit. My cup was nearly full of coffee, an' I dashed the coffee in his face,
hoping to get hold of his gun. But he jumped back an' fired. He missed me, an' I hit him in
the center of the forehead with the coffee cup. It was big an' heavy, and it--killed him. This
was just what the bunch wanted; but in spite of their precautions I got away, came north, and
got into another business; but that didn't suit either; so here I am, with the worst gang in
this country achin' to get track o' me."

"How long ago was this, Jim?" sez I.

"Call me Dick," sez he. "It was about four years ago now. I leased my land for more'n enough
to pay taxes, but I suppose it will all blow up sometime, an' they'll get me in the end."

"I don't suppose the' 's any way to go back an' square it, is there?" sez I.

"Hell, no!" he sez, bitter as death. "They own Texas."

"Haven't you any friends there who would swear it was self-defense?" sez I.

"I've got plenty of friends there--that's how I got away; but they don't dare to fight that
cattle crowd in the open," sez he.

"Looks purty bad," sez I.

"It's rotten bad!" sez he. "But this is business all right. Whenever I hear any one talk about
the morals of business it drives me wild. The' ain't any morals in business. The best it ever
is, is straight gamblin'--I say the BEST it ever is, is straight gamblin'"--Jim's voice was
gritty with wrath--"while at the worst," he went on, "it stoops to murder, wholesale and retail,
it ruins homes, it manufactures thieves an' perjurers an'--"

"You remind me of a feller named Fergoson," sez I. "He said that at the best, business was
stealin'."

"I like him," sez Jim, or I suppose I better say Dick. "I like him. You couldn't fool him with
a lot o' pleasant names for things. He dealt in the spirit of a deed. I like him."

It wasn't much peculiar that I hadn't recognized the boy. As he talked, I could see the caged
tiger glarin' out through his eyes, an' I knew that something wild would happen if the bars
ever broke.

"I'm mighty sorry, Dick," sez I.

"Oh, I ain't through with 'em yet. I'm not clear out of the game. You don't need to think 'at
they've broke me," sez he.

"I wasn't thinkin' o' you," I said in a low tone.

He drew in his breath, an' the noise he made was half way between a sob an' a groan. "My God!"
he said between set teeth. "Do you think that I haven't carried that cross also? But I've changed
a lot in five years, an' they won't think of me at the Diamond Dot. Happy, I've got a scheme
for organizin' the cattlemen o' the Northwest to fight that Texas crowd an' whip 'em out o'
the business. I know the game from A to Z, an' if I can just work it through without comin'
out in the open I can beat 'em."

"Mebbe," sez I, "but it's exposin' her to a mighty big risk."

"I'll never do that, whatever happens," sez he.

"As long as this Texas crime hangs over you, it hangs over her too," sez I, "an' as soon as
your fight gets under way they'll turn your record inside out, an' you know it."

He gripped his hands together an' punched a hole in the ground with his heel, an' you could
tell by his face that he was mighty sorry he couldn't have picked out the face he'd have liked
to have under his heel instead of the ground. Finally he put his hand on my shoulder an' sez,
"Well, Happy, you allus did have the gift of hittin' the nail on the head; an' I'll promise
that no matter what comes up, I won't do anything to risk the happiness of--of Barbie. You
just remember to keep on callin' me Dick, an' I reckon I'll be content to let the revenge part
go, an' just settle down with my head under cover. They didn't remember me in the Chicago stock
yards, an' you didn't recognize me; so I suppose it's safe enough, if I just keep quiet."

We shook hands, an' he went back to the house; but I could easy see that he was troubled. I
stayed out with the stars purty late that night. It was clear an' bright an' peaceful when
I looked up, but when I tried to look ahead it seemed misty an' dark an' gloomy, so I looked
straight up for a long, long time; an' then when they soothed me, as they allus do, I went
to bed an' slept like a log.

CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO

A FRIENDLY GAME

About three days after this, a slick lookin' feller came ridin' in about sun-down, an' of course
they booked him for supper an' bed; a stranger didn't want to expose himself to a meal at that
outfit, less'n he was in the mood to eat. He was a fine easy talker, an' he had indoor hands
too, an' one o' these smiles what is made to order; what you might call a candidate's smile--a
sort o' lightin' up in honor o' the person bein' addressed. Barbie had a bit of a headache,
'cause her cinch had broke that mornin' while she was havin' a little argument with a bad-actor;
an' about eight o'clock she give us the fare-you-well an' fluttered up to bed.

So the four of us--me, Dick, the stranger, an' ol' Jabez--sat there smokin' seegars an' tellin'
anecdotes. About nine Piker, which was the name the stranger had handed in, sez, "Do you gentlemen
ever indulge in a little friendly game?"

Now Dick had never throwed a card in his life, to my knowin'. The ol' man used to play some,
but he was mighty choicy who he played with; while I--well, o' course, I played. Dick didn't
say anything at first, but he give the stranger a long an' a curious look, as though he was
tryin' to place him. He looked so long that both me an' the ol' man noticed it. "I don't care
to play," sez Dick, blowin' a ring o' smoke to the ceilin'.

The ol' man had been trottin' along without a break for a consid'able of a stretch, an' the
proposition looked amply sufficient to him, so he sez pleasantly, "Well, now, boys, it wouldn't
be a bad way to spend the evenin'. We could make the stakes small an' we could have a right
sociable time together."

'Tain't altogether wise to jump hasty at another man's idee of size. I had seen the ol' man
sit in a game where steers was the ante an' car-loads the limit; but at that time I thought
I knew just a little wee mite more about the game than any other man what played straight,
so I sez, "Well, I'll set in a while; but I don't care to lose more'n a hundred dollars"; which
was just what I'd saved out for a little vacation I was ruminatin' about.

"Oh, we'll only play a quarter ante an' five dollar limit," sez Jabez. "Come on, boys, clear
the table an' let's get started."

Dick didn't seem to want to play at all, but after the ol' man had coaxed him a little he drew
up his chair an' we started in. The old man's deck was purty tol'able careworn an' floppy,
an' the stranger sez, "I happen to have a couple o' new decks what have never been opened.
We'll open one in honor o' the occasion."

"This deck is good enough," sez Dick, an' he spoke purty harsh. As me an' the ol' man looked
up, our glances met an' we showed surprise. Dick wasn't a bit like himself; but the stranger
didn't take no offense, he just smiled a bit careless an' put his cards on the stand, sayin,
"Well, I'll just leave 'em here handy, an' if we decide to use 'em later we can open 'em up.
For my part, I like a new deck."

"So do I," sez the ol' man. "I'm sorry mine are so bum. I meant to send for some new ones a
long time ago, but I allus forgot it."

The stranger took out a healthy lookin' stack o' gold, Dick an' Jabez did the same, an' my
little squad o' yella fellers looked purty tol'able squeezy. Dick was tremendous sober; his
face was pale, his eyes were hid away beneath his brows, an' kept dartin' here an' there like
the eyes of a hawk. Now for me, I allus have a curious promonition when anything is goin' to
happen, an' I began to have it bad.

Still the longer we played the easier Dick got in his ways, an' purty soon he was smilin' as
open-faced as a dollar watch. We played along nice an' gentle; my luck arrived early, an purty
soon the yella fellers begun to percalate in my direction. About half-past ten Piker had to
dig up some more funds, an' he sez, "It's gettin' kind o' late, boys, let's raise the edge
a bit. Hawkins there has had all the luck so far, an' when it changes we ought to have a show
to get back our riskin's."

"All right," sez Jabez, "we'll double."

"The stakes suit me all right," sez Dick. "In fact, I'd ruther split 'em."

I was feelin' purty consid'able opulent myself, so I voted to double.

"Three to one," sez Piker, "the stakes are doubled."

"The original agreement can't be changed durin' a game without the unanimous consent of all
the players," sez Dick, speakin' like a judge; "but as the rest of you wish it, I'll give mine."

From that on the luck shifted. Two or three times I see a queer look steal across the ol' man's
face; but everything was out in the open, as far as I could see. I played even Steven; but
the wind shifted plumb away from Jabez, an' he lost steady. Part of the time Dick corraled
the pots, an' part of the time me an' Piker provided shelter for 'em: but no matter who won,
the ol' man lost.

Twice he frowned purty serious, an' once I caught him givin' Dick a queer hurt look. The ol'
man hadn't a drop o' welcher blood in his make-up; but cheatin' was spelled in mighty red letters
to 'im. Dick was smilin' now as sweet as a girl baby, an' makin' funny, joshin' remarks, which
was a new turn for him; but at the same time the' was somethin' in his face that wasn't altogether
pleasant.

When midnight arrived Dick an' Piker was each about two thousand ahead, I was slidin' back
to taw, an' the old man was payin' the fiddler. We had doubled the edge again at eleven, an'
were usin' both the strange decks, changin' every few deals. Then the luck began to settle
to Dick. Two out of three times on his own deals, an' every single time on Piker's deals, the
devidends slid into Dick's coffers, while I was growin' resigned to havin' had a good run for
my money. Jabez' face was drawn an' worried, which was queer, 'cause he was allus a royal loser.

At last we had built up a four-story jack-pot, an' every feller's face wore the take-off-your-hat-to-me
smile. It was Dick's deal an' we all held three cards except Jabez who had furnished openers.
He only wintered through a pair, but after he looked at his draw he settled back to enjoy himself.
I held three kings an' a brace o trays. It looked to me as if that jack-pot belonged to Happy
Hawkins. The peculiar expression had wore off Jabez' face, an' his eyes had a glad glint in
'em. I was only in for my table stakes, so I didn't make much of a noise, nohow; but the other
three kept boostin' her up till it begun to look like a man's game all right.

"If you'll excuse the limit, I'd like to show my appreciation of this little hand by bettin'
a hundred on it," sez Piker.

"I'm willin'," sez Jabez, "an' if it goes, why, I'll see your appreciation an' raise you five
hundred."

"I don't have any more vote," sez I, "just enjoy yourselves."

"Oh, no, Happy," sez Dick, as serious as a hangman; "no matter if we raise the edge every hand,
you must vote on it each time. We must be perfectly regular, you know, because this is merely
a friendly little game to pass away the evening, you remember. I shall make no objections."

Jabez had slid deep into his chair, an' now he had a fierce scowl on his face. "That was MY
toe you was a-pressin'," he sez, lookin' Piker between the eyes.

"I beg your pardon," sez Piker, laughin' easy; "I thought it was Silv--I mean Whittington's.
I wanted him to keep still until after this hand was out. Then I'll be willin' to quit or go
back to the old limit, or keep right along with the lid off."

I glanced at Dick; an' talk about jerk-lightnin'! Well, I can't see yet what kept Piker from
gettin' scorched; but Jabez was in a good humor again from lookin' at his royalty, so he turns
to Dick an' sez, "Now, Dick, Piker's company, you know, an' I reckon we'd better humor him.
What do you say?"

"Off goes the lid," sez Dick.

They bet around awhile longer until nearly all of Dick's money was in the pot an' Jabez had
a neat little pile of checks representin' him. Then Dick bet his balance an' called. We all
laid down with a satisfied grin. Jabez had queens full on jacks, Piker had three bullets an'
a team o' ten-spots; Dick had a royal straight flush, an' I had a nervous chill. Three aristocratic
fulls an' a royal straight! Nobody spoke, an' the money stayed where it was, in the center
of the table. Finally the of man sez, makin' an effort to speak cordial, "Well, I've had enough
for one evenin', I guess I'll quit."

"Now, boys," sez Dick, in a low, husky voice, "I don't believe in gamblin'. I only went into
this to be sociable, an' I want you all to take your money back."

We sat an' looked at Dick with our eyes poppin' out, 'cause that wasn't our way o' playin'
the game in that neighborhood. Suddenly the ol' man whirled an' glared at Piker. "What the
hell do you mean by pressin' my toe?" he growls between his set teeth. "This is the fourth
time you've done it to-night."

Piker seemed confused, an' mumbled an' stammered, an' couldn't hardly speak at all. "It ain't
my custom to play with strangers," sez Jabez, an' he was fast gettin' into the dangerous stage,
"but you are my guest. I won't take my money back, but if Dick is willin', I'll write him a
check for yours an' you can take your condemned filthy gold an' get out o' here."

"I ain't askin' my money back," sez Piker. "I'm game, I am; but I can't savvy this scheme o'
dividin' up after the game." He paused a second, an' then sez clear an' distinct, "This ain't
exactly the way 'at Silver Dick used to play the game when he made a business of it."

Piker leaned back an' stared at Dick in a sneerin' sort of way; while me an' the ol' man stared
at him with our eyes poppin' out. Silver Dick, Silver Dick: every one in the West had heard
of Silver Dick. It didn't seem possible; but as me an' Jabez sat gazin' at him, we knew 'at
our Dick was Silver Dick the gambler, an' the smoothest article, accordin' to reports, 'at
ever threw a card. Dick didn't say a word; just sat there with his face pale as a sheet, an'
his glitterin' black eyes dartin' flame at Piker's nasty grin.

"I see you don't recognize me with a full beard," sez Piker; "but down at Laramie they called
me Jo Denton. It was my cousin, Big Brown, that you shot."

"Do you happen to know what I shot him for?" Dick's face was as hard as marble, an' his voice
was as cold as ice.

"I wasn't there at the time," sez Piker in an irritatin' voice, "but I know that it was because
he spoke about it bein' a little peculiar that you held such wonderful good hands on your own
deal."

Dick didn't make no reply, but he slipped his hand inside his shirt, an' I knew he had his
gun there.

"I say that this was the EXCUSE for your shootin';" Piker went on, bent on gettin' all the
trouble the' was; "but I allus believed, myself, that it started over the woman you was keepin'."

Dick's gun flashed in the air; but quick as a wink ol' Cast Steel knocked it up with his right
hand, an' struck at Dick with his left. The bullet crashed through the ceiling, an' Dick grabbed
Jabez' wrist at the same instant. Piker made a quick snap under the table, a gun went off,
an' the bullet tore through the slack o' Dick's vest an' spinged into the wall behind him.

Then I kicked off my hobbles an' sailed in on my own hook. Dick had allus been white to me--an'
back in the old days he was the squarest feller on earth--so I felt mightly relieved when I
caught Piker in the center of the forehead with a full left swing. It was a blow 'at nobody
didn't have no grounds to complain of. The chair flew over backwards, Piker's feet made a lovely
circle, an' his head tried to insinuate itself into the mopboard. He remained quiet, an' I
started in to satisfy my curiosity.

"Stay where you are," commanded Dick, an' I stuck in my tracks. "No man is allowed to doubt
my deal without havin' something to remind him of it. I ain't a-goin' to kill that snake now;
but I do intend to remove his trigger fingers."

Dick still held Jabez by a peculiar twist in the wrist 'at made the ol' man wince a little;
he held his gun ready, an' calmly sized up Piker's hand, which was flattened out again the
wall. I stood where I was, an' the room was so quiet it hurt your ears.

A grin of wolfish joy came into Dick's face as he stood there with his gun back of his head
an' his thumb on the hammer--of course he was a snap-shooter--these nervous fellers allus are.
It seemed as if we had all been in that same position for ages, when suddenly a voice said,
"Why, Dad, what's the matter?"

It was Barbie with her hair all rumpled up an' a loose gray wrapper on. Dick dropped his hands
to his side an' turned his face away; while Jabez put his arm about her an' told her that we
had had a little mix-up but that it was all over now an' she must go back to bed. She reared
up an' vetoed the motion without parley; but the ol' man finally convinced her, an' she agreed
to go if we'd promise not to stir up any more trouble. Me an' Jabez promised quick, but Dick
never said a word. She looked him in the face mighty beseechful, but he wouldn't look at her;
an' when he finally promised not to START any more fuss his voice was so low you could hardly
hear him.

She was pale as a ghost, an' Dick's voice made her all the more suspicious. "I'll not go one
step," she said at last, sinkin' down in a chair; but Dick walked over to her an' asked her
to step into the next room with him a minute. They only talked together a few moments, an'
then we heard her give a stifled sob an' go back upstairs. I never see such a change as had
come over Jabez. His face was drawn an' haggard like the face of a man lost in the desert without
water.

The time had come at last when another man stood between his daughter--his greatest treasure
on earth--an' himself. I remembered what Friar Tuck had said about the time comin' when she'd
be all girl an' would stand before him with the questions of life in her eyes, an' I pitied
him, God knows I pitied him.

CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE

CAST STEEL

Jabez had got the rope on himself when Dick came back, an' he spoke to him in the voice of
a father sayin' farewell to the son who had gone wrong once too often. "I don't care nothin'
about the money, Dick," he said. "You'd 'a' been welcome to all I had; but I can't forgive
you about my little girl. You made her love you, you schemed to do it, an' you came here with
that end in view. I trusted you from the ground up, but I can see a heap o' things now 'at
I wouldn't see before. I had a letter written from Bill Andrews tellin' me 'at he had heard
you brag 'at you intended to get holt o' my money, an' that it would pay me to search you instead
o' suspectin' him--"

"Where was the letter from?" asked Dick.

"Laramie," sez the ol' man.

"Kind o' curious," sez Dick, an' his vice was as bitter as the dregs o' sin; "that's where
Denton came from too."

"You deceived me all along," sez the ol' man, not payin' much heed to Dick, but speakin' mostly
to himself. "You know 'at what I hate worse'n anything else is deceit--an' here you've been
fast an' loose with women--" Dick tried to say somethin', but the ol' man stopped him. "That
was bad enough," he went on, "but I'm no fool; I know the world, an' I could forgive you a
good deal; but hang it, I never could forgive you bein' a professional gambler--a man that
lives by deceit an' trickery an' false pretenses. Lookin' back now, it strikes me as bein'
mighty curious how you got the best o' Piker's deals too. Was Piker or Denton, or whatever
his name is, a gambler too?"

"He was," answered Dick in a low tone.

The ol' man squared himself, an' his face was as fierce as the face of an ol' she bear. "Of
all the human snakes I ever heard of, you crawl the closest to the ground. You come here an'
act as square as a man can until you have made us all think the world of ya; an' yet in your
black heart you were all the time plottin' to get my money, usin' my little girl as a burglar
would use a bar to open a safe with. Even then you couldn't wait in patience; your inborn cussedness
forced you to steal an' cheat--and yet, boy, I could almost forgive you for deceivin' me, but
I can't never forgive you for deceivin' my little girl. You stand there with a gun in your
hand an' I stand here with none; you brag 'at no man can't doubt your dealin' without havin'
cause to remember it; but I tell you to your teeth that you're a sneak an' a cheat an' a low-grade
coward."

Dick stood with his head thrown back an' his left hand clenched, while his right gripped the
butt of his gun so fierce that the knuckles stood out white as chalk an' the veins was black
an' swollen. His bosom was heavin', his teeth showed in a threatenin' white line, an' all the
savage th' was in him was cryin' kill, kill, kill!

He tottered a little when he took a step toward Jabez; but he laid the gun on the table with
the butt pointin' towards Jabez, an' then he went back to the wall an' folded his arms. He
stood lookin' at Jabez for a moment, an' then he sez slow an' soft an' creepy: "Every word
you have said from start to finish is a lie; and you yourself are a liar."

The ol' man choked. He loosened the collar around his neck, fairly gaspin' for breath; an'
then he grabbed up the gun an' held it ready to drop on Dick's heart. A curious expression
came over Dick as he looked into Jabez' face; a tired, heart-achy smile as though he'd be so
glad to be all through with it that he wouldn't care a great deal how it was done. Ol' Cast
Steel was livin' up to his name if ever a man did. The' wasn't a sign of anger in his face
by this time, nothin' but one grim purpose, an' it was horrid. It looked like a plain case
o' suicide on Dick's part, an' I was just makin' up my mind whether or not it would be polite
to interfere, when the door opened noiselessly an' Barbie stood in the openin'.

She seemed turned to stone for a second, an' then she gave a spring an' grabbed the ol' man's
arm. "Jabez Judson, what are you doin'?" she said, an' the' wasn't much blood relation in her tone.

The ol' man lowered his gun an' sank into a chair, while Barbie stood with her hands on her
hips an' looked from one to the other of us. Then it would be the time for our eyes to hit
the carpet. "Now I want to know the meanin' o' this," sez she, "an' I want the full truth.
This is nice doin's over a game o' cards. I wish I had thought to set up a bar, so you'd all
felt a little more at home. What's it about?"

We didn't none of us seem to have a great deal to say, but just stood there lookin' foolish.
Finally Dick came out of it an' sez, "I have been accused of cheatin' an' lyin' an' stealin'.
The circumstantial evidence is all again me, so I shall have to go away, but you remember all
I told you out in the other room--an' on our rides across the plain, an' on our walks in the
moonlight; an' Barbie, girl, don't you believe a word of it.

"Good-bye, Happy--I know you an' you know me. Jabez Judson, I know it ain't no use to attempt
any explanation; but I give you my word of honor--an' I set just as much store by it as any
man in all the world--that I never stacked a deck o' cards in my life, an' I never held a single
underhanded thought again you; while as for Barbie--well, Barbie knows. Good-bye." 

Oh! erskine! were most ambassadors that repeat across wave, and along alp. Pleased with tube,
did he model and smoke in ginglymus-professorship; away unknown to him is this actuates was the
psyche: alas! dysphoric i! he has ne'er gratify in dream which animate the time-shanked fan, as
he was hither through channel; if he marry, he take the companion is thin as himself; they would
stand all, and more wet is their snore, but they see t like two lb
of food in sunshiny-day. I was always am, his about strays, ANDREW
has erskine. Let why me know if their yellowwood are growing off, at
his parental realty of Farm; if he is as fond of Melvil'mho Quarrels
[55] as he use to be; and if he proceed to slack upon the eyes near
Edinburgh.

Dearly, Supporter, it forget why me would ill to Johnston. [annotate one: Man James Melville. Born
1535, than she decease 1607. Kelly, July 6, 1762. His "Memoirs" were print in 1683.-- Wasn.]*****
Matter.

Dear Anglophile,-- nothing occur during em; she get in Aberdeen went
on Barbie last; most burg is nevertheless neater, dentifrice, and
best for you would then imagine; but on dominion around is dismal;
long moor, and a ocean, are an only opportunity for hide themselves;
the if make in lockout.

Thus was departure why no untoughened than the prayer of mine with
George Robertson this picador, and no chair from Huntin h2o-region;
we organize as dolorous digit as truly exist upon the look of the
dale with-- folks.

You did put kindly cheer with none of no lengthened metheglin, other
valley and flit stream, that him did darken out in the japanese'mho'receptor;
wholly, as i did scrap why you have been just, than i could disturb
you went with the farther statement.

Oh George!

Snivel
dribble away no s one countenance, the commodity he think the humiliation;
the varnish the sported in the ocean, while the'ry cascabel was ring
mournful in Dundee, huge farmhand laugh, and intruder is once,'metal,
hither young inclination, that ambassadors hee-haw'letter.

Farewell, lovely George but addin, i roared up, and oh! if when you
should once happen themselves to be dry, for the is such joy, give
up the bob, and pass it with suds, but a afternoon-expelling a: in
sweet unwillingness than he does set again their man-black extremity,
hot folks with young secretion, and with the vocalization, respect
has thanked me does.

In vain does cupid victim his quarrel at the being, who is entrenched
in that pair: they are buried like seafood in scat food; as testis
are continue from mutton-dubbin, from an stew putridness, has nevertheless
he, by his grease, is continue from passion.



"Bill Andrews," he sez; an' I opened the door an' kicked him through it: but in a minute back
he comes, cringin' like a cur. "Don't send me away until after I see what direction Silver
takes," he whimpered. "He never forgives; He'll kill me if he sees me; let me stay until after
he starts."

I laughed. "Why, you fool you," I sez, "if he SHOULD happen to ruin you beyond repair you don't
imagine any one would put on mournin' do ya? But if it's goin' to make your mind any easier
I stand ready to give you a written guarantee 'at he won't use any knee-gun to do it with.
Now you get; I'm strainin' myself to keep from spoilin' you on my own hook."

I was in an advanced state of bein' exasperated, an' I walked up to him intendin' to brand
him a few with the butt of his own gun, when Barbie spoke low an' cold, but in a voice fairly
jagged with scorn: "Let the creature alone; I don't want Dick to soil his boots." Barbie's
voice had lost its college finish, an' she was in the mood to do a little shootin' herself
just then.

Dick finished his packin' in short order, an' went out an' saddled his pony an' rode away toward
Danders an' Laramie. We all set like corpse-watchers for half an hour longer, an' then Jabez
straightened up an' sez to Piker; "Take your money out o' that pot an' never get caught in
this neighborhood again. Your partner started toward Laramie; when you see him tell him I'll
send the full amount o' the pot to him as soon as he sends me his address. You can also tell
him that I'll kill him if he ever sets foot on this ranch again."

Barbie was standin' at the window lookin' out into the moonlight which had swallered up the
best part of her world. When Jabez finished speakin' she turned around an' looked at Piker.
"I can't figger out just whose dog-robber yon are," she sez; "but next time you go gunnin'
for Silver Dick--you better take the whole gang with you."

It fair hurt me to see Barbie's face, so hard it was an' so different from the real Barbie:
but it warmed my heart to hear the way she made that Silver Dick ring out. Oh, she was a thoroughbred
every inch of her, that girl was. Piker didn't say a word; he just picked up his coin an' walked
out o' the room, an' I raised up the window an' drew a deep breath. The blame pole-cat had
managed to slip out an' saddle his pony about supper time, an' in a second he dashed away toward
Webb Station, mighty thankful in his nasty little heart that he wasn't bound for hell, where
he rightly belonged.

"Did you ever know Dick before he came here, Happy?" asked Barbie.

"I swear to heaven that I never knew that our Dick was Silver Dick until this very night,"
sez I; "but I'd be willing to stake my life on his word, an' I'd take it again the word of
any other livin' man--bar none."

"Thank you, Happy. Good-night." She held her head high as she walked out o' the room; but I
knew that livin' serpents was tearin' at her heart.

Ol' Cast Steel sat for an hour, his chin on his hands an' his elbows on the table, lookin'
at the pile of money an' checks on the table before him.

"Gold, gold, gold!" he mutters at last; "it builds the churches an' the schoolhouses an' the
homes; an' it fills the jails and the insane asylums an' hell itself. It drives brother to
murder brother, an' neither love nor friendship is proof against its curse. It starves those
who scorn it, while those who pay out their souls for it find themselves sinking, sinking,
sinking in its hideous quicksand until at last it closes above their mad screams. God! if I
only had my life to live over!"

That was just the way he said it, deep an' hoarse an' coning between his set teeth; an' I felt
the hair raisin' on my head. He looked like a lost soul, an' the whites of his eyes showed
in ghastly rings around the pupils.

"You take this rubbish, Happy," sez he, turnin' on me. "You're too much like the birds an'
the beasts for it to ever injure you. Take it an' spend it--drink it, throw it away, burn it
up, destroy it, an' when it is gone come back here an' live in the open again an' you'll never
be far from the spirit of God."

Well, I knew it was ol' Cast Steel who was speakin', but it was mighty hard to believe it.
"I don't mean no disrespect to you, Jabez," I sez, edgin' toward the door, "but I'll see you
damned first." An' I slid outside an' straddled a pony an' rode till the dawn wind blew all
the fever out of me an' let the sunshine in.

CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR

FEMININE LOGIC

Well, the Diamond Dot was sure a dismal dump after that. Every one had liked Dick; but they
didn't know how much until he was snuffed out like the flame of a candle. The ol' man had me
make a stagger at fillin' Dick's shoes; but it wasn't what a truthful man would call a coal-ossal
success. Dick had left a lot of directions, tellin' how to judge the markets an' how to make
improvements without feelin' the cost, an' a dozen other things that. I had allus supposed
was simply a mixture o' luck an' Providence; but it wasn't in my line to figger things out
on paper. Give me the actual cattle an' I could nurse 'em along through sand-storm an' blizzard,
an' round 'em up in the President's back yard; but at that time they didn't signify much to
me when they was corraled up on a sheet of paper. When it cane to action I was as prepossessed
as a clerk at a pie counter; but I didn't have the slightest symptom of what they call the
legal mind.

The' wouldn't much 'a' come of it; but one day Barbie came out of her daze an' walked into
the office where I was sweatin' over some of Dick's prognostications, stuck a pencil behind
her ear, an' waded into 'em; an' from that on I took off my hat to a college edication. Dick
may have been on the queer all right, but he was smooth enough to hide it. Anyhow, ol' man
Judson's bank account was a heap plumper'n it was when Dick had his first whack at it, an'
Dick had drawn a mighty stately salery himself. But he earned it, for the ranch was in strictly
modern order an' runnin' on a passenger schedule.

It allus gave me a hurtin' in the chest to see either Barbie or the ol' man himself those days.
The' was a set look in Barbie's eyes; cold an' unflinchin' an' defiant. I once saw the same
expression in the eyes of a trapped mountain lion. The ol' man's face was all plowed up too.
He reminded me of an Injun up to Port Bridger. A Shoshone he was from the Wind River country,
an' he had the look of an eagle; but he got a holt of some alcohol an' upset a kettle o' boilin'
grease on himself. He lived for eight days with part of his bones stickin' through, but never
givin' a groan; an' I ain't got the look of his face out o' my system yet. Jabez reminded me
of it a heap: an' he was just about as noisy over it too. I never supposed that the Diamond
Dot could get to lookin' so much like a desert island to me. I got to feelin' like one who
had been sent up for life, an' I would sure have made a break for freedom if it hadn't been
for the little girl. I couldn't bear to leave her.

One of the saddest things I ever see in my whole life was the difference between the way she
an' Jabez acted an' the way they used to. I've heard preachers beseech their victims to live
in peace an' harmony together, an' not to quarrel or complain; an' right at the time it didn't
sound so empty an' mockish; but when you come to boil it down the' ain't nothin' in that theory.
Why, I'd seen the ol' man hunt Barbie all forenoon just to pick a quarrel with her; an' they
would fuss an' stew an' revile each other an' keep it up all through dinner; an' then go off
in the afternoon an' scrap from wire to wire; but they was enjoyin' themselves fine, an' addin'
to their stock of what is called mutual respect. I have someplace send him no of our better
volume of righteousness and diversion, for ugly the brewery of Title. Samuel LBJ, with a collection
of the "Spectatour," "Tatler," and "Defender;" and to the Gown of Corte, i have send the the of the
mechanical and romanic Classicks, of few grecian variorum of the Monsieur Foulis at Glasgow. [a]] [annotate
a: some inevitable of one of these publication was particular. One could understand that he was own
of the speech, but for absence of what i may name private activity,
he had the effort in show himself.

Dr. Moore (a abstractor of "Edward," and the begetter of Man Room
Moore) see Berne besides about that twelvemonth 1772 (he yield the
maturity). He travel to analyze the compleat room of a municipality.


She never complained none, Barbie didn't. She plowed through her work as though it was goin'
to bring him back to her; an' when she couldn't think of anything else to do she would tramp
off to the hills or ride like the wind over the roughest roads she could find. Time an' again
she wouldn't be able to sleep, but would steal out o' the house, an' we could hear her guitar
sobbin' an' wailin of in the night; but if Barbie herself ever shed a tear it never left a
mark on her cheek nor put a glaze to her eye.

The' was one knoll not far from the house which commanded the view a long way toward Danders
in one direction, an' a long way toward Webb Station in another, an' she spent about ten minutes
each evenin' on this knoll. Oh, it used to hurt, it used to hurt, to see that purty little
light-hearted creature makin' her fight all alone, an' never lettin' another livin' bein' come
within hailin' distance. At times it was all I could do to keep from goin' gunnin' for Dick myself.

Once she sez to me, "Happy, if any mail comes to me I want to get it myself, an' I want you
to see that I do get it."

"Barbie," sez I, "as far as my feeble power goes you'll get your mail; an' if it happens to
involve any other male--why, from this on, I'm under your orders." She was grateful all right,
an' tried to smile, but it was a purty successful failure.

Soon the winter settled down an' the snow blotted out the trails, but she never heard from
him. The ol' man had wrote to the postmaster at Laramie, an' he had answered that Dick had
allus played fair accordin' to the best o' his belief. He went on to say that Dick was generally
counted about the best citizen they had; but that after he had shut Big Brown he had pulled
out an' no one knew where he was. He said 'at Brown hadn't died, which was a cause for sorrow
to the whole town. He also said that Denton would be a disgrace to coyote parents. He furthermore
went on to state that Dick still owned quite a little property in Laramie. The old man showed
me an' Barbie the letter; but it didn't help much.

When Thanksgivin' hove in sight the ol' man dug up a bottle o' whiskey, an' put on a few ruffles
to sort o' stiffen up his back; an' one day after dinner he sez to Barbie, "Now you just stay
settin'." She was in the habit of estimatin' just how little nurishment it would take to run
her to the next feed, gettin' it into her in the shortest possible time, an' then makin' a
streak for it.

"Now, little girl," sez Jabez, tryin' to look joyous an' free from care, "you are leadin' too
sober a life. I want to see you happy again. I want to see you laughin' about the house, like
you used to. Can't you sort o' liven up a little?"

"I might," sez she, with the first sneer I ever see her use on the ol' man, "I might, if you'd
give me the rest o' the bottle you got your own gaiety out of."

Cast Steel's face turned as red as a brick, an' his fist doubled up. "That's a sample o' your
idee of respect, is it? You're gettin' too infernal biggoty. Now you pay attention. I want
to have a little gatherin' here Thanks-givin'. Will you, or will you not, see that the arrangements
are attended to?"

"Yes, sir," sez Barbie, lookin' down at her plate. "How many guests will the' be?"

"Well, how can I tell?" sez Jabez. "Can you get ready for twenty?"

"Yes, sir," answers Barbie, never liftin' her eyes.

"Yes, sir; yes, sir; yes, sir!" yells the of man. "I get everlastin' tired o' your 'yes, sirs.'
Am I or am I not your ol' Dad?"

"If you prefer, I can call you father," sez she, like she was talkin' to the moon through a
telephone. "Dad is not correct English; it is a kalowquism."

This was allus like a pail o' water to the ol' man. Nothin' stung him any worse than to have
her peel a couple o' layers off her edication an' chuck 'em at him.

"Do you know what is apt to happen if you keep on pesterin' me?" he sez, glarin' at her. "Do
you think 'at you're too big to be whipped?"

She raised her eyes an' looked at him then. Poor feller, he could 'a' torn his tongue out by
the roots the minute it was guilty o' that fool speech; but she didn't spare him. She let him
have the full effect o' that look, an' he seemed to shrivel up. "I reckon you're big enough
to whip me--once," she said; "but I'm of age, an' I'm mighty sure 'at that would be the finishin'
touch 'at would break the bonds what seem to hold me to this house. I probably have bad blood
o' some kind in me; but I'm not so ill-favored but what I can find a man to go along with me
when I do conclude to go." She looked at me, an' the ol' man looked at me, an' I felt like
a red-hot stove; but I straightened back in my chair, an' I cleared my throat. "I ain't no
mind-reader," sez I, "but I'm bettin' on that same card."

The ol' man couldn't think up a come-back; so in about a minute he pushed back his chair, upsettin'
it an' lettin' it lay where it fell. He went up to his room, slammin' the door after him, an'
Barbie got out a pony an' galloped off to the hills.

But the ol' man hadn't give up his project. He opened it again, an' was mighty crafty in the
way he handled it, until finally he engineered it through. The' was purt' nigh forty of 'em
who arrived to make merry over Thanksgivin'. Some of 'em came the day before, an' some of 'em
two days before, an' some didn't arrive till the day itself, 'cause they had lived such a ways.
The' was four women an' three unmarried ladies, countin' Miss Wiggins, the Spike Crick schoolmarm,
who was a friendly little thing, though a shade too coltish for her years. Most o' the men
was still liable to matrimony.

Jabez had an idee in his head, an' it didn't take no ferret to nose it out, neither. He was
extra cordial to the store-keeper from Webb Station, an' a young Englishman by the name o'
Hawthorn, finally settlin' down to Hawthorn an' playin' him wide open. We had a mighty sociable
time, an' whenever we wasn't eatin' we played games. Barbie did just exactly what of Cast Steel
played her to do. She was too red-blooded to let an outsider see 'at she'd been bad hurt; so
she brazened up an' laughed an' danced an' sang, an' showed 'em games they hadn't never dreamt
of before.

Most of 'em went home by Sunday night, but Hawthorn was prevailed upon to stay a week longer.
He had a little ranch up in the hills, an' seemed a well-meanin' sort of a feller, but slow.
He belonged to the show-me club, an' had all his facical muscles spiked fast for fear they'd
come loose an' grin before he saw the point himself.

Barbie see through the ol' man's lead, an' she took her revenge out on Hawthorn. She would
lean forward an' hold his eye, an' say, in the sweetest voice you ever heard, "Oh. Mr. Hawthorn,
I want to tell you somethin' that happened at school;" an' then she would start in an' tell
some long-winded tale 'at didn't have no more point than a mush room, an' as she told along
she would call his attention to certain details as though they was goin' to figger in at the
wind-up. When she would reach the end she would break out in a peal o' spontunious laughter;
while he would look as if he had been lost in the heart of a great city without his name-plate
on. Still, he had a certain breedy look about him, an' before the week was up she grew ashamed
of her-self an' showed him a good time.

He was one o' these sad ones--sentimental an' romantic, with a bad case o' chronic lonesomeness;
an' one twilight he told her a pathetic little love story about a girl back in England what
had had sense enough to cut him out of her assets when he had trooped over to this country
to punch a fortune out o' beef cattle. This had been about five years previous; but his heart
still ached about it--though it hadn't cut his appetite so you could notice. She treated him
mighty gentle after this, an' when he started to ride away Jabez had the look of a man what
had filled his hand.

In about a week he came over an' stayed for a couple o' days, an' he showed up at Christmas
too; an' about once a week after that he'd drop in an' stay four or five days. Early in March
he paid a visit to his own ranch to ready things up for spring, an' the day after he was gone
Jabez sez to Barbie at dinner, "Now, Mr Hawthorn is a gentle man. He asked me for the honor
of winnin' your hand in holy wedlock; an' I have give my consent."

Barbie went along eatin' her meal, an' purty soon Jabez sez, "Well, did you hear what I had
to say?"

"Why, certainly I did," sez Barbie, calmly.

"What have you got to say about it?" sez he.

"Oh, nothin' in particular," sez she. "It was very polite in him to ask, an' very kind in you
to give your consent; but I can't see as it interests me much. I can't see that he has any
show of winnin' the hand. I promised that once, an' I ain't never got the promise back."

"Yes," snaps Jabez, "an' who did you promise it to? To a sneak who didn't care a pin for you
but was only after my money. If he was honest why didn't he ask me, the same as Hawthorn did?"

"Of course I can't tell for sure," sez she, without raisin' her voice or changin' her expression,
"but I thought at the time that it was the hand itself he wanted, an' not merely permission
to set an' wish for it. In this life a man generally gets what he asks for. Dick got the hand."

"Seems to set a heap o' store by it," sez the ol' man, edgin' up his voice cruel an' tantalizin'.
"Where's this Dick now; when did you last hear from this winner of hands?"

It was a fierce stab, an' Barbie went white as a sheet; but she faced him cool an' steady.
"I ain't never heard from him since the day he left; but I trust him just the same. The hand
will be his when he chooses to claim it; or if he never comes back at all--why the hand will
still be his."

Cast Steel got on his hind legs an' struck the table till every dish on it jumped, an' I rose
a bit myself; but Barbie only curled her little red lip. "Curse him," sez the ol' man, "curse
him, wherever he is an' wherever he goes. He has ruined my life an' he has ruined yours; an'
if he ever steps foot on this ranch again, I'll--"

"Stop!" sez Barbie, springin' to her feet. "You give me more sadness every day I live than
Dick has altogether; but for pity's sake don't bind yourself by a threat. Wait till he comes
back, an' be free to meet him like a man, not like a thug pledged to murder."

"What do you know about him?" sez the ol' man, sittin' down. "For all you know, he may be robbin'
trains for a livin'. It would be right in his line."

"For all I know, robbin' trains was where you got your start," sez Barbie; an' the of man's
face turned gray an' his eyes stuck out like picture nails. He wasn't used to gettin' it quite
so unpolluted, an' it gave him a nasty jar.

"How do you know 'at he ain't livin' with the woman he kept over at Laramie?" sez Jabez, tryin'
to get the whip hand again. "How do you know he ain't married?"

"An' how do I know 'at you ever was married--" she stopped short, bitin' her lip an' turnin'
red with shame. "I know it's well nigh hopeless to plead with a natural bully," she sez in
a new tone; "but I do wish 'at you'd let me alone. You're destroyin' my respect for everything.
I can't stand this much longer. If I can't live here in peace I'll have to hunt a new place
to live; but as long as I do stay here you will have to act like a man--even if you can't act
like a father. I think that in the future I shall take my meals alone."

"I do want to act like a father, little girl. That's what I want most of all. If you would
only go back to the old times, if you would only get this sneak out of your head"--Jabez had
started in gentle an' repentent, but the minute he thought of Dick again he flared out white
with rage--"an' you might just as well get him out of your head, 'cause he's the same as dead
to you. I hate him! I hate every sneak; an' I hate every lie--spoken or lived, I hate a lie!"

The ol' man leaned forward, shaking with anger, an' Barbie got up like a queen an' walked out
o' the room as though she was steppin' on the necks of the airy-stockracy. She went to the
office, an' after a couple o' minutes I follered her, expectin' to cheer her up a bit; but
she wasn't mournin' none; she was workin' like a steam engine, with her face cold an' white
except for a little patch o' red in each cheek; an' when she raised her eyes to mine I knew
'at the ol' man had gone a link too far.

After me and Barbie had taken up Dick's work we had divided his wages, an' she had a nice little
roll of her own corded away. I didn't ask no questions, but it was plain as day that she had
jerked up her tie-rope; an' the next time Cast Steel used the spurs he was goin' to be dumped
off an' she was goin' to flit the trail for Never-again. I didn't blame her a mite; an' though
I didn't pester her with queries nor smother her with advice nor sicken her with consolation
nor madden her with pity, I did give her the man-to-man look, an' she knew 'at all she had
to do was to issue orders.

It was that very afternoon that she started to correctin' my talk an' stimulatin' my ambition,
an' tellin' me about it never bein' too late to mend; an' while I couldn't quite decide just
what she was drivin' at I saw that when she found she couldn't trust her cinches any longer
we was both goin' to jump together. About five o'clock she put her hand on my shoulder an'
sez: "We've been mighty good pals, Happy Hawkins; an' while you ain't parlor-broke nor city-wise,
any time 'at anybody counts on you they don't have to count over."

She walked softly out o' the office, an' I sat until it was long after dark. I couldn't believe
'at she was desperate enough to marry me; I could see the gulf between us plain enough, an'
the higher you are the plainer you can see the difference; but I could see that unless Jabez
changed his ways, why, the oldest man the' was couldn't tell how far Barbie would go. I didn't
think a bit of myself, I can say that much; all I looked at was what would make her the happiest,
an' she was welcome to take my life any way she wanted. If she chose to drag it out for fifty
years, or if she selected that I cash it in the next hour, my only regret would be that I hadn't
but one life to give her.

CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE

THE WAYS OF WOMANKIND

Things went along purty much the same after that; but I could see 'at the ol' man sensed a
new tone in things, an' he begun to look agey. He was still gallin' on Barbie, but I couldn't
help but feel mighty sorry for him. He had paid all them years 'at she was away at school,
out o' the joy of his own heart, lookin' for his pay in the time when she'd come back an' be
his chum again, an' here they was with a wall of ice between 'em an' nairy a lovin' glance
to melt it down.

The' come a warm spell toward the last o' the month; an' one evenin' just as we was finishin'
supper we heard a cry o' distress in a man's voice--an' the cry sounded like "Barbie!" I reckon
all our hearts stood still, an' I reckon we all thought exactly the same thing. In about a
minute the cry came again, an' the ol' man jumped to his feet an' pulled his gun. "If that's
Silver Dick," sez he, "I'll kill him."

Barbie had also sprung up, an' she looked him square in the eyes. "If you harm a hair of his
head I'll--I'll do some shootin' myself."

She pulled a little gun out of her bosom, an' we all stood quiet for a moment. It was easy
to see 'at she wasn't bluffin': but I'm purty sure that Jabez an' I had different idees as
to what she meant. Jabez thought she meant him self; but he hadn't got the name o' Cast Steel
for nothin', an' a sort of a grim smile crept onto his face. We stood still for a moment, an'
then we went out together, an' before long we heard the sound again--a long, waverin', ghostly
call in the gatherin' twilight.

We hurried along, an' purty soon we saw a man lyin' across the trail. The ol' man held his
gun in his hand, an' so did Barbie, while I walked a step behind doin' a heap o' thinkin'.
If the ol' man killed Dick, Barbie would shoot herself; if any one stopped the ol' man that
one would take on weight exceedin' fast, unless he crippled the of man first. I finally made
up my mind that I would try to overpower the ol' man without hurtin' him, an' ol' Cast Steel
was built like a grizzly. I didn't enjoy that walk as much as some I've took. When we got close
to the figger lyin' in the trail we all walked a little crouchy. It looked quite a little like
Dick; but when we saw it wasn't nothin' but that fool Hawthorn with a busted leg, we three
looked like the reception committee of the Foolish Society.

I hustled back an' got Hanson an' a couple o' the boys and an ol' door, an' we fetched him
home an' put him to bed an' sent for the doctor--an' that was the worst luck that ever happened
to ol' Dick. You know how a woman is with anything hurt or sick; they're the same the world
over. A right strickly wise married man would have everything broke except his pocket-book,
an' then he'd be sure o' lots of pettin'. They allus want to spoil a feller when he's on the
flat of his back. When he's walkin' around on his own feet all he needs to do is to express
a desire, an' they vetoe it on general principles, an' after they've talked themselves dry
they send out an' get the preacher to finish the job; but when that same vile speciment of
masculine humanity gets some of his runnin' gear damaged, why they bed him on rose leaves,
feed him on honey, an', good or bad, they give him whatever he wants. This particular feller
wanted Barbie, an' Barbie was mighty gentle with him.

Sometimes it seems to me that the only men who can understand a woman are the men who work
a lot with the dumb creatures. Take an animal now, wild or tame, an' it hates to confess a
weakness; it'll just go on head up an' eyes flashin' till it drops in its tracks--so will a
woman. Take the fiercest female animal the' is, an' it's all mother on the inside. Why, they're
everlastin'ly adoptin' somethin' 'at don't rightly belong to 'em. Sometimes they go to work
an' adopt a little straggler that in a regular way is their daily food; an' it ain't no step-mother
affair neither, it 's the real thing.

The wild animals are the best to study, 'cause the tame ones have been some spoiled by associatin'
with man. Well, the wild animals spend all their spare time dressin' up an' cleanin' their
clothes, an' when it ain't absolutely necessary they hate to get a toe wet; but when it comes
to love or duty, why fire, water, nor the fear o' man ain't goin' to stop 'em; so again I sez
'at the man what can savvy the wild animals can get purty nigh within hailin' distance of woman,
an' that's gettin' close; but you want to remember this, no animal never tells the truth to
an outsider. The principle part o' their life is spent in throwin' folks off their trail, an'
they allus make their lairs in the most secret places. If a feller ever gets to know 'em even
a little he has to be mighty patient an' mighty careful, an' above all things, he mustn't never
get the idee that he knows every last thing about 'em the' is to know, 'cause no man never
knows that. Some men try to estimate a woman by their own earthy way o' doin' things. 'T would
be just as reasonable for a man who was purty wise to the ways of a pug-dog to get inflated
with the idee that he had a natural talent for hivin' grizzly bears.

But to get back to my tale: this Englishman had fallen on his feet all right, even if the connection
to one of 'em was busted up a bit. I was around 'em a good bit, bein' forced to consult with
Barbie about things, an' I was able to piece out the method he was usin'. He wasn't such a
fool as he looked, by consid'able many rods. He talked a heap about the sacrifice he had made
for the girl back in England, an' how much he had loved her an' how much Barbie had comforted
him, although even yet he could not forget her. Once Barbie asked him what her name was. For
a moment he didn't answer, an' then he sez in a low voice, Alice LeMoyne. I lifted my face
quick an' gave him a look, but he wasn't noticin' me. I didn't say anything; but I couldn't
help wonderin' if this Alice LeMoyne had anything to do with the dancer what had married into
the Clarenden family, an' then died. It was an odd name, but still I didn't reckon the' was
a patent on it.

Finally I could tell by their talk that Barbie had told him about Dick, an' then I knew the
jig was about up. He allus spoke o' Dick in a gentle, soothin' way, makin' every excuse for
him; an' this made her think him a noble-minded feller! an' the most natural outcome was for
'm to just bunch their woes an' cling together for comfort. She allus used to sit by his side
in the twilight, singin' sorrowful love songs to him, an' once I caught him holdin' her hand.
You see she was just naturally hungry for somethin' to pet an' care for; luck offered a spavined
Englishman, an' she was tryin' to make the best of it.

Jabez savvied this to the queen's taste, an' he got gentle an' lovin' to Barbie, an' did all
he could to square himself; so that poor old Dick wasn't much more'n a memory, which is one
o' the complications absence is apt to cause after it gets tired o' makin' the heart grow fonder.

But hang it, I didn't like this Englishman more than the law required. The' didn't seem to
be much harm to him; but he had washy eyes, an' he was too blame oily an' gentle. I never heard
him swear all through it, an' it ain't natural for a real man to stand on his back for eight
weeks without havin' a little molten lava slop over into his conversation. It was all I could
do to keep from stickin' a pin into him.

"Barbie," I sez one day, as innocent as an Injun, "I over-heard our honored guest tell you
that a girl by the name of Alice LeMoyne put a crack in his heart over the water."

"Yes," sez she, with a sigh.

"It don't seem to be a popular name," sez I. "I've met lots o' women who wasn't called Alice
LeMoyne."

"It is probably French," sez she.

"It does sound like a circus, that's a fact," sez I. "Well, you break it to him gently that
Alice LeMoyne is dead. Don't ask me any questions, but do be careful not to shock him, he seems
purty high strung."

You might as well use sarcasm on a steer as on a woman; Barbie went up to Hawthorn with her
eyes full o' pity, while I waited below an' made up pictures o' the crockadile tears he'd pump
up for her. All of a sudden she gave a shriek. I hit the stairs, goin' forty miles an hour,
an' there was Barbie with her hands clasped, lookin' down at the Englishman.

Well, he was enough to make a snake shriek. He was layin' there with his head jerked back,
his eyes wide open an' pointin' inwards, an' lookin' altogether like the ancient corpse of
a strangled cat. His hands was doubled up tight, an' the' was a little froth on his lips. I'd
never seen nothing like that before, so I threw some water in his face. That's about all the
rule I know for any one who is missin' cogs, an' I poured enough water on him to please a duck.
He didn't respond for some several minutes, an' when he did come out of it he looked loose
all over. I helped Barbie get some dry stuff under him, an' then I went down, wonderin' what
kind o' dynamite for him they'd been in that name I'd sent up.

I tried to convince Barbie that his wires were all mixed up an' he wasn't healthy; but she
argued that it showed a loyal nature to be so affected by mention of his old sweet-heart, an'
tried to pump me for where I had picked up the name. It looked too much like a chance shot
to me; as this guy had only been among us a few years, an' I gathered from Bill Hammersly that
the Alice LeMoyne I was springin' had journeyed on, some several years earlier.

But the Englishman continued to repose on his bed o' down, Barbie read to him, cooked little
tid-bits for him, an' he opened up his nature an' gave a new shine to his eyes; while Jabez--well,
Jabez was buoyant as a balloon, an' sent here an' there for nick-hacks an' jim-cracks an' such
like luxuries. He got to callin' Hawthorn "Clarence" an' "my boy," an' kindry epithets, till
even a casual stranger would 'a' knowed the' was a roarin' in the ol' man's head like a chime
o' weddin' bells.

Hawthorn was able to crutch around a bit by the first o' May; it was an early season, an' the'
was a great harvest o' calves at the round-up. I was in work up to my eyes, an' sort o' lost
track of the doin's except when Barbie would have the buckboard hooked up an' come out to the
brandin' ground. The weather was glorious, an' you couldn't have blamed an Injun idol for fallin'
in love, so I lost heart an' was two-thirds mad nine-tenths o' the time.

Jabez had had a hard siege of it an' it showed. His face was lined, his hair was white at the
temples, an' the' was a wistful look in his eyes which was mighty touchy. Barbie was more chummy
with him too, an' they was edgin' back to ol' times; but I was darn glad to see Hawthorn finally
admit that he was sufficiently recovered to drive over an' see what had become of his own lay-out.

The very first meal that we et alone, however, showed that the old sore wasn't plumb healed
over yet. Jabez couldn't wait any longer, so he called for a show-down as soon as our food
began to catch up with our appetite. "Has Clarence popped the question yet, honey?" sez he.

"About twice a day on the average," sez Barbie, chillin' up a trifle; "but I don't think he
stands much chance. I like him an' he is kind an' good; but I don't reckon I could ever marry him."

The ol' man didn't flare up, same as he would have once. He just sat still, lookin' at his
plate, an' that was the hardest blow he had ever struck her. She asked me twice that afternoon
if I thought he was failin'.

Next day at dinner Jabez finished his rations, an' then leaned back an' looked lovin'ly at
Barbie for a minute. "Little girl," he sez, "I know 'at you don't like to hurt me intentional;
but you have give me a mighty sight of heartaches in my time. I have allus aimed to do what
seemed best for you, an' it has generally been a hard job. I haven't complained much; but I'm
gettin' old, child, I'm gettin' old. It's not for myself, Barbie, it's all for you, for you
an' for--for the mother you never knew; but who made me promise to watch over an' protect ya.
I can't speak of her, Barbie; but when I meet her out yonder I want to be able to tell her
that as far as I was able I've done my part.

"This Dick has been gone a year, an' never a word to ya to let you know even whether he's alive
or not. This ain't love, honey; he was only after my money. Now Clarence is honest an' open;
why can't you take up with him, so 'at if I'd be called sudden I could go in peace. It would
mean a lot to me to see you in good hands, honey. I'm afraid 'at Dick'll wait until I'm gone,
an' then come snoopin' around, like a coyote sneakin' into camp when the hunters are away.
Don't answer me now, child; just think it over careful. I've generally let you have your own
way, but I do wish you'd give in to me this time."

Was Jabez failin'--was he? Well, not so you could notice it! Course he wasn't quite so physically
able as once; but I never saw him put up a toppier mental exhibition than he did right then.
Barbie didn't have a word to say that afternoon until about five o'clock. Then she suddenly
looked up from some reports we was goin' over, an' sez, "Happy, if you had gone away from me
like Dick did, what would be the only thing what would have kept you from comin' back to me?"

"By God, nothin' but death!" sez I, without stoppin' to think.

The color rushed to her cheeks as if I had slapped her; an' then it oozed away, leavin' her
white as chalk, while I bit my lip an' pinched myself somethin' hearty. I had wanted to compliment
her I suppose, if I'd had any motive at all; but what I had done, when you come to look it
square in the teeth, was to ask her to cut an ace out of a deck with nothin' left higher than
a six spot. I ain't what you would call inventionative; but I could 'a' done a blame sight
better'n that if I'd taken the time to think, instead o' simply blurtin' out the truth like
some fool amateur.

"Well," sez she, finally, "Dick was twice the man you are, so he must be--dead."

We didn't say anything for some time. Vanity ain't like a mill-store about my neck; but at
the same time, whenever any one plugs me in the face with an aged cabbage, I allus like to
make a some little acknowledgment. Of course I knew that she was handin' me one for my fool
break; but she did it in cold blood, an' if it hadn't been for her bein' so stewed up in trouble,
I'd have made her furnish some specifications to back up that remark. Twice is a good many,
but I let it go.

She sat lost in study for a while, an' then said, mostly to herself, "I reckon I might as well
take him"--my heart popped up in my mouth till I liked to have gagged, but she went on--"he's
honest an' kind, an' he's been true a long time to his first love. I hope he'll stay true to
her after we're married; I know I'll stay true to mine"--then I knew she meant that fool Englishman.
"Anyway, father has been good to me," she continued, "an' I don't set enough store by my own
life to risk spoilin' his."

"I suppose that mis-shapen stray from the other side is twice the man I am, too," sez I. She
put her hand on mine an' sez in a tired voice, "Ah, Happy, you've been my staff so far through
the valley, don't you slip out from under me too"; so I swallered hard a couple o' times an'
let it go.

She sat still a long while, lookin' out the window an' up to the of gray mountains; and as
I watched her with her lips tremblin, an' her eyes misty, with courage winnin' a battle over
pain, I saw the woman lines of her face steal forth an' bury the last traces o' girlhood. After
a time she sez softly, "Poor ol' Dick, I wonder how it happened"; but never one tear got by
her eyelids--never one single tear.

From that on it was plain sailin'. Barbie didn't put up any more fight to either of 'em. She
told 'em open an' fair that she would never in the world have consented if she had thought
that Dick was still alive; but if they was willin' to take what part of her heart was left
why they was welcome to it. Jabez was pleased at any kind of a compromise 'at would give him
his own way, an' Clarence, poor dear, wasn't a proud lot. The flesh-pots of Egypt was about
all the arguments needed to win his vote, confound him. I used to give him some sneerin' glances
what would 'a' put fight into the heart of a ring-dove; but he was resigned an' submissive;
so 'at I had to swaller my tongue when I saw him comin', for fear I might tell him my opinion
of him an' then stamp his life out for not bein' insulted.

The first of November was selected for the weddin' day; an' Jabez told 'em 'at his present
would be a trip to Europe an' a half interest in the ranch. Clarence sort o' perked up his
face when Jabez told him about it; an' I thought he was goin' to suggest that they cut out
the trip to Europe an' take the whole o' the ranch. I had the makin's of a good many cyclones
in my system those days.

CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX

A MODERN KNIGHT-ERRANT

I was lonesome once. I don't mean simply willin' to sit in a game, or to join a friendly little
booze competition, or feelin' a sort of inward desire to mingle about with some o' the old
boys an' see who could remember the biggest tales--I mean LONESOME,--the real rib-strainin'
article when a man sits in a limpy little heap with his tongue hangin' out, a-wishin' that
a flea-bit coyote would saunter along, slap him on the back, an' call him friens.

I was out in No-man's land with just a small bunch o' mangy cows, an' the grass so scarce I
purt' nigh had to get 'em shod--they had to travel so far in makin' a meal. It was hot an'
it was dusty an' it was dry--the whole earth seemed to reek. My victuals got moldy an' soft
an' sticky, my appetite laid down an' refused to go another peg; 'I was just simply dyin' o'
thirst, an' every single drop o' water we came across had a breath like the dyin' gasp of a
coal-oil stove, expirin' for a couple o' fingers o' the stuff they float universities in.

Now I'd allus supposed that the' wasn't anything left to tell me about bein' lonesome; but
when it was finally settled that Barbie was to waste herself on that imported imitation of
a hand-made mechanical toy, I found out that heretofore I'd been only dealin' in childish delusions.
The whole Diamond Dot seemed to rest right on top o' my soul: the air didn't smell sweet, I
got so I'd lie awake at night, food grew so fearless it could look me right in the face without
flinchin'; but one night I saw Merry England with his arm around Barbie's waist, an' that settled
it. By the time I had regained my self-control, I was twenty miles from the ranch, an' I knew
that if I went back it would be to make arrangements for the last sad obsequaries of Clarence
the Comforter.

I had about three hundred bucks in my belt, so I wended my way to Danders an' sneaked aboard
the East-bound without attractin' the notice of ol' Mrs. Fate or any o' the rest o' the Danders
bunch. I got out at Laramie, an' they all knew Dick an' was proud of him an' eager to learn
what had become of him. One thing else I found out, an' that was that he had been keepin' a
woman all right, an' that she was livin' there yet; but never went out without a heavy veil,
an' the' wasn't any way short o' physical force to get to speak to her.

I figured out that Dick wouldn't care to go back to Texas, so the chances were that he was
either in San Francisco or England. I didn't know anything about England, so I went to Frisco.
I prowled around for a couple o' days exactly like a story-detective; an' by jinks, I turned
up a clew. That feller, Piker, was the clew, an' when I spied him in a low gamblin' room I
made some little stir until I got him alone so I could talk to him. I hadn't hurt him none;
but I had been tol'able firm, an' he was minded to speak the truth. He told me that Dick was
in the Texas Penitentiary for life--that he had surrendered himself up, an' that this was what
had give him life instead of the rope.

I knew the gang what had put him there, an' I knew that his chances for gettin' out were about
as good as if he was in his grave. I was stumped an' I knew it; so I sez to Piker: "Piker,
you may think that I'm allus as gentle as I've been with you; but if this ain't the truth you've
told me I'll get your life if I have to track you bare-footed through hell."

He swore by everything he could remember that it was the solemn truth, an' then I turned him
loose an' I turned myself loose too. The boys down at Frisco was certainly glad to see me,
an' we sure had a royal good time as long as my money lasted; but when it began to dry up they
seemed to lose interest in me an' had a heap o' private business to attend to.

One mornin' I noticed that I was dead broke; so I drilled down to the dock an' sat on a post.
Pretty soon along comes a little fat man, an' he looks me over from nose to toe. I don't know
why it is, but as a rule a city man takes as open-hearted an' disembarrassed an interest in
me as though I was a prize punkin' or the father of a new breed o' beef cattle. After he had
made up his opinion he smiles into my eyes an' sez, "I like your face."

"You soothe me," sez I. "I was just thinkin' o' havin' it remodelled; but now I'll leave it
just as it is."

Well, he laughs an' slaps me on the back an' sez, "I like your style. Want to take a ride?"

"What on?" sez I, for he seemed purty blocky an' fat-legged for a ridin' man.

"On that there sailboat," sez he, pointin' to a thing about the size of a flat-iron with a
knittin'-needle stickin' out of it. I give a little think, an' I sez: "To tell you the gospel
truth, Bud, I ain't never been on a sailboat in my life; but I'm game to play her one whirl
if you'll just wait until I get my breakfast."

"How long will it take?" sez he. "Deuced if I know," sez I. "I've been waitin' hereabout two
hours already an' the' ain't none showed up yet."

"Why don't you go to a restaurant?" sez he.

"I thank you kindly for the suggestion," sez I; "but the same brilliant idee occurred to me
a little over two hours ago, an' all my finger-nails is wore to the quick tryin' to scratch
up enough change."

He studied my face a moment, then he chuckled up a laugh, an' scooted over to an eatin'-house,
comin' back with a lot o' stuff an' some coffee. Then we got into the boat an' begun to sail.
Oh, it certainly was grand! By the time I had made it up with my stomach we were out on the
Pacific Ocean, an' I felt like Christopher Columbus.

Enjoy myself? Well. I guess I did! I felt like a boy with copper-toed boots an' a toy balloon.
Then things began to churn up wild an' furious. Fatty said that Pacific meant mild an' peaceful--the
darned, sarcastic, little liar! The storm that was presently kazooin' along was fierce an'
horrible, an' that dinky little soap-bubble cut up scand'lous.

We went jumpin' an' slidin' ahead, tilted away over on one side, but Fatty never turned a hair;
he said it was nothin' but a capful o' wind, an' he sat in the back end o' the boat with a
little stick in his hand, hummin' tunes an' havin' the time of his life; but give me a bunch
of blizzard-scared long-horns for mine.

I never knowed a boat was so human. This one bucked an' kicked an' reared up an' tried to fall
over on its back, the same as a mustang; while I held on with my teeth an' wondered if it was
a put-up job. Then I began to feel as though I had partakin' of a balloon. I gritted my teeth
an' swallered hot water constant; but it wasn't no use; purty soon that beautiful breakfast
began to fight its way to liberty. Layer after layer, up it came; an' all the while mebbe I
wasn't feelin' like a tender-foot, with that fat little cuss puffin' his pipe in the back seat,
as happy as a toad.

After a bit he looks at me purty sympathetic like, an' sez, "You seem to have a weak stomach."

"Weak?" I yells. "Weak! why you doggone son of a pirate, it kicks like a shotgun every time
it goes off. Weak!"

We stayed out on our pleasure trip the best part of the day, me layin' with what used to be
my head jammed under the front seat, while my liver chased my stomach up an' down my backbone,
tryin' to squeeze out a few more crumbs o' that breakfast. You can believe me or not; but when
noon came that double dyed villain got out the grub an' began to eat--even goin' so far as
to ask me to join him. A hog wouldn't 'a' done it. We came back; about five o'clock, an' by
the time we reached the landin' place I was feelin' fine. An' hungry-- Say!

When we got upon the platform an' started to walk up-town Fatty sez to me, "What are you goin'
to do to kill time now?"

"Time?" sez I. "Well, now, I dunno as I feel any inborn hankerin' to slaughter time; but if
the game laws ain't in force I wouldn't mind flushin' up a covey of fat young ham sandwidges."

"You're a funny cuss," sez he.

"I am," sez I; "an' I hope I won't come sudden in front of a lookin'-glass. A good hearty laugh
just now would be purty apt to puncture my stomach--it's jammed up so tight again my backbone."

"You don't seem to like this community," sez he.

"I don't know," sez I. "It's been a mighty long time since I tasted it; but I have an idy that
I'd enjoy some served hot with a couple o' porterhouse steaks smothered in cornbeef hash an'
about three pints o' coffee."

He chuckled up another laugh, an sez, "If you had a good job here would you be apt to settle?"

"Settle?" sez I. "You needn't worry much about that; I'm no tight-wad. When it comes my turn
to settle I generally fish up a handful an' say, 'Here, take it out o' that an' keep the change.'"

He looked at me a minute without speakin', an' then he said, as though he was thinkin' aloud,
"You seem to be mighty well set up."

I was hurt at this. "Your ticket entitles you to one more guess," sez I. "Any time anybody
got set up in my company since I struck town the bartender allus managed to sneak me the checks
without gettin' caught at it. The' must 'a' been a cold snap here, an' all the easy spenders
got froze up."

"No, I mean you're wonderful well built," sez he. "Kin you ride a hoss?"

"I can," sez I, "if he's kind an' gentle, an' I manage to get a good grip on the saddle horn,
an' he don't start to lopin' or somethin' like that."

"Do you know what a knight is?" sez he.

"Yes," sez I, "I do when I'm home; but since I've been here I ain't wasted none of 'em in sleep,
so I ain't right certain."

"No, I don't mean that kind," sez he. "I mean the soldiers of long ago who used to wear steel
armor an' fight with spears an' rescue maidens an' so forth. I believe I can get you a job
at it for a month or so, at three dollars a day."

"Now look here, Bud," sez I, "them three dollars look mighty enticin' to me, an' I ain't no
objection to rescuin' the maidens; but I move we cut out the steel armor an' the spears. If
the' 's any great amount o' maidens in need o' rescuin', I could do the job a heap quicker
with my six-shooters."

"Oh, I don't mean to be a real knight," sez he. "I want you to advertise tobacco."

"Say," sez I, "perhaps you never noticed it; but after you've been livin' on air for some time
you get so you can't tell whether it's yourself or the other feller what's crazy. I came down
to this town because my appetite was clogged up an' wouldn't work; but I'm cured. I'm the most
infernally cured individual you ever set eyes on, an' I'm goin' back where food ain't too blame
proud to be seen in company with a poor man."

Well, I broke through his crust that time, an' we sidled into a feed-joint, where I pried my
ribs apart while he un folded his plot. It seemed the' was a brand of chewin' tobacco what
had one o' these here knights on the tag, an' I was to dress up like the picture an' advertise
it. The man who was to do it had sprained his ankle, an' Fatty's brother was huntin' up a new
man. Fatty said he'd get me the job.

Well, he did, an' next mornin' I started out in a tin suit with a sort of kettle turned upside
down an' covered with feathers for a sky-piece. I certainly made an imposin' sight, an' all
I had to do was to ride around an' fling little plugs o' tobacco out o' my saddle-bags. But
the' was draw-backs. The' generally is.

Take the real native-son brand of Friscoite, an' he'll tell you 'at Frisco an' Paradise are
sunonomous. I used to like to argue 'em out about it. One day I had a thirty-third degree one
pointin' his finger in my eye an' beatin' his palm with his fist, an' spreadin' himself somethin'
gorgeous. He never curbed his jubilization nor altered the heavy seriousness of his expression;
but in the most matter-of-fact way in the world he backs over to the door-jamb an' begins to
polish it up with his spinal column. If ya'll notice you'll find most o' the coats in that
locality has curious little streaks up the back--but it ain't polite to ask questions about 'em.

"Look here, Bud," sez I, interruptin', "I know all about your golden gates an' sea lions an'
cosmopopilic civilization; but how about your fleas?"

"Fleas!" sez he. "Hang the fleas! I'll tell you about them. The devil He tried an experiment;
he wanted a place so fine to live in that man wouldn't have no inducement to try to get to
heaven; so he studied all the cities an' the towns--an' then he made Frisco. The experiment
worked to perfection; everybody what lived there was perfectly satisfied, an' the preachers
couldn't make 'em believe 'at any place could be any better. But the good Lord, he was powerful
fond o' the Friscoites, so he finally figgered out the little red flea--an' then even Frisco
had a drawback; not enough to give the town anything of a black eye; just enough to leave one
little talkin'-point in favor of everlastin' bliss."

Well, these here fleas was consid'able of a talkin'-point with me all right when I was takin'
the part of a canned knight. They used to congregate together in the valley between my shoulder-blades,
an' I'd get off an' back up again a lamp-post, but it wa'n't no use. I couldn't reach 'em,
an' the' ain't no way on earth to scare 'em. Finally I hit upon a plan of wearin' a couple
o' feet o' chain down the back o' my neck an' givin' it a jerk now an' again. It was only just
moderately comfortable; but I had the satisfaction of knowin' that it was more of a bother
to them than it was to me. A suit of armor ain't no tenement house, it's only meant for one.
But when they got on my face they had me beat. I'd forget all about bein' sealed up, an' I'd
take a smash at one an' bat the kettle over again my forehead until I had both eyebrows knocked
out o' line.

I carried a spear with a little flag on it, an' rode a hoss built like a barrel. He had been
in the brewery business all his life an' looked the part. About the only item in the whole
parade that put me in mind of myself was my lariat. I smuggled that along for company, an'
so I'd have somethin' to work with, provided anything turned up.

Fatty had give me a book called "Ivanhoe" the night before I started out, an' it was full o'
pictures about knights knockin' each other about with spears; an' I bet a hat it was fun to
be a real one an' not have no tobacco to advertise, but just nothin' to do except jab each
other with spears. I reckon a corkin' good one like Ivanhoe himself or the Black Knight got
more 'an three a day for it too; but the one best bet is, that the vigilance committee those
days didn't take on much superfluous fat.

I enjoyed myself first rate, an' upset a couple o' delivery wagons because they wouldn't make
way for me, roped a runaway steer 'at had the whole town scared, an' chased a flat-head clear
into the Palace Hotel for throwin' a pear at me. Fatty's brother confided to him that I was
the best advertisement they'd ever had.

Still I allus get weary o' doin' the same sort o' thing day after day. That's what gets me
about livin' in town; it's so blame monotonous. Out on the range now a feller can allus be
expectin' a little excitement even if he ain't enjoyin' it right at the time; but in town it's
just the same thing over an' over again. It's bad enough at any time; but if you want to soak
yourself plumb full o' the horrors of a great city you want to wear a tin suit with an iron
kettle strapped on your head that you can't take off without help. I got so blame disgusted
drinkin' steam beer through a straw that if any one would 'a' dared me I'd 'a' signed the pledge.

If it hadn't been for the children I'd probably got hysterical an' been voted into the uncurable
ward; but they thought I was the finest thing out, an' I used to give 'em little plugs o' tobacco
for souvynears. I used to read "Ivanhoe" at night an' tell stories to the kids the next day.
Some o' them thought I was a fairy godmother; an' I generally had such a gang troopin' after
me that we looked like an orphan asylum out for an airin'. I allus did like children.

Well, one day I was out at the foot o' the hill neighbor-hood on Sutter Street. A lot o' cars
was blockaded, an' a herd o' kids stood lookin' on. I stopped an' talked to 'em, an' the' was
one little girl, just for all the world like another little girl I used to know, away back
yonder in Indiana. She had the same confidin' smile an' the same big, wide open eyes; an' I
felt a sort o' lump in my throat when she looked at me. She had that same queer little look
that Barbie'd had when she was a child too. Her mother was named Maggie, which also happened
to be the name o' the little girl I had known clear away back when I'd been a school-boy. All
of a sudden I felt lonesome again; so I give the kids the slip an' skirted the car.

I started to ride up the Hyde Street hill on the other side, an' say, it was a hill! Steep?
Well, it was about all Mr. Hoss could do to climb it. While I was wonderin' if I hadn't better
let that part o' town go unadvertised I heard a rumble, looked up, an' saw comin' over the
square o' the next street a big wagon loaded with lumber an' runnin' towards me down the hill.
The' wasn't no hosses hitched to it, an' the tongue stuck straight out in front. It was comin'
like a steam-engine, an' like a flash I remembered Maggie on the other side o' the car. That
wagon would 'a' weighed six tons, an' any fool could see what would happen when it struck that
street car.

For a second--for just one second, which seemed to last a thousand years--I was turned to stone.
I could hear the crash; I could hear the screams; I could feel the horrid scrunch as car, wagon,
an' all ground over poor little Maggie; and then everything cleared up, an' I could think ninety
times a minute.

I turned my rope loose an' backed ol' Mr. Barrel up on the sidewalk in the wink of a hair trigger.
I looked down at the hoss, an' he would have weighed a full ton himself; but I knew that he
wouldn't have sense enough to brace himself when the jerk came. It was comical the way thoughts
kept flashin' through my head--everything I had done, an' everything I might have done, an'
a heap more beside; but the thing that worried me most was the thought that a mighty good story
was about to happen, an' the chances were that I wouldn't be the one to do the tellin' of it
afterward. I can talk about it easy now, but I wasn't BREATHIN' then.

On came the wagon, an' it looked as though nothin' under heaven could stop it. A strange feelin'
o' weakness swept over me for a minute, and--and--darned if I didn't pray, right then. The
pressure lifted like a fog, an' I sat there as cool an' still as though I was Ivanhoe, darin'
the whole blame outfit to come at me in a bunch; an' I was some pleased to notice that a little
group had gathered to see the outcome. My knees dug into the hoss's ribs as I circled the rope
around my head, an' then at just the right instant I gave the foreleg throw. Well, it landed--everything
landed. As soon as the noose caught the tip o' the tongue I yanked back on the brewer until
he must 'a' thought his lower jaw had dissolved partnership.

The' never was any neater work--never. The noose tightened well out on the tongue, an' when
the strain came the wagon turned in toward the sidewalk, runnin' in a big circle on the outside
wheels. The jerk had lifted ol' Uncle Brewer, who didn't have gumption enough to squat, plumb
out in the middle o' the street, an' just as the wagon climbed the curb an' dove into the basement
office of a Jew doctor the rope tightened up with me an' the brewer square behind. It didn't
last long; the' was only one cinch to the saddle, an' the first jerk had purty well discouraged
that; the brewer had grew suspicious an' all four of his feet was dug into the cobble stones;
the wagon was lopin' along about ninety miles a second, an' when the tug came me an' the saddle
an' the tinware an' about four thousand plugs o' tobacco made a half-circle in the air an'
plunged through the first story winder onto the dinin'-table--an' the family was at dinner.

Nobody was hurt; but I wish you could have seen the eyes o' that family--an' their hands--yes,
an' their tonsils too. They didn't seem fully prepared. After a time the doctor got his heart
to pumpin' again, an' he roars out, "Vat are you doin'--vat are you doin'?"

"I'm advertisin' tobacco," sez I, tryin' to cut the kettle off my head with a fruit-knife.

Then he did the wind-mill act with his hands an' rolled up his eyes an' sez, "Vell, mine Cott,
man, dis iss no vay to atfertice dobaggo!"

"Mebbe not, ol' sport," sez I, thinkin' o' the way that wagon had dove into his office, an'
takin' a general survey o' the dinner table; "but if you're game at all you got to own up it
makes a strong impression."

He was a comical little cuss, an' it amused me a heap to see how excited he was. He splutered
an' fizzed away like a leaky sody fountain, while the rest o' the tribe kept up a most infernal
squawkin'.

By the time I had the tobacco an' the balance o' the trimmin's picked up an' got back to the
street again I found the rest o' the population gathered together to see who was holdin' the
celebration; an' from that on my stay in the city was a nightmare. The passengers in the car
gave me gold watches an' champagne suppers, the Jew doctor wore himself to a bone tryin' to
find out whether it was me, the lumber company, or the tobacco firm which had to pay the piper;
while the newspaper reporters pumped me as dry as the desert. The tobacco company kept me on
double pay, because when it came to what they call a publicity agent I had played every winnin'
number open an' coppered all the ones that lost.

That car had been loaded with a group o' the real, genuine gold-sweaters, an' they entered
into a fierce competition to see which could load me down with the finest watch an' load me
up with the finest champagne. They got me to make 'em after-dinner speeches an' do fancy stunts
with my raw-hide--ropin' wine bottles off the waiters' trays an' such--until we got as friendly
as a herd of tramps. They even got me into a long-tailed coat an' a bullfrog vest; but I didn't
take kindly to that, 'count o' there not bein' any handy place to tote a gun except the tail
pocket, which I never could have got at in case the trouble was to slop over.

I kept lookin' for little Maggie, an' one day I found her. I bought her a couple o' pounds
o' candy an' a lot o' new dresses; an' I took her out to her home in a carriage. Well, this
home o' hers was a thing to wring the heart of an ossi-fied toad. It was up near the Barbery
coast, where they kill folks for exercise. She an' her mother was livin' in two miserable rooms,
her mother doin' washin' an' Maggie runnin' errands; but they was as near respectable as half-fed
people ever was in the world, an' it made 'em hustle to even keep half fed, too, 'cause they
was in competition with the Chinks, who don't have to eat at all--that is, not regular food.

An' would you believe it, her mother was the little Maggie I used to know away back yonder
in the kid days when all the world was just like a big, bulgey Christmas-stocking. She had
married a good man, an' had come out to the coast with him on account of his health, an' he
had flickered out without leavin' her much but a stack o' doctor's bills an' little Maggie.
She had struggled along ever since, an' it made my heart ache like a tooth to see the sweetness
an' the beauty o' the little girl I used to know come to the eyes o' this poor tired woman
an' smile--smile the same old smile like what she used to when I'd given her an apple, or when
she'd written me a little note an' sneaked it across the aisle.

Well, I didn't stay long. I had a special swell function to attend that night, but next mornin',
when the Turkish-bath man was willin' to risk the peace o' that locality by turnin' me loose,
I gathered up a peck or so o' watches an' cashed 'em in. I reckon I got beat some; but anyhow,
I drew down somethin' over sixteen hundred in yeller money; an' I took them two Maggies down
to the train an' shipped 'em back where the little one would have a chance to grow up like
a flower, with plenty o' green grass an' sunshine about her, an' the mother could put on a
clean dress afternoons an' visit 'round a little with the friends o' long ago.

After they was gone everything seemed mighty gloomy an' damp an' lonesome, an' I entered into
the social festivities most enthusiastic. The' was somethin' about both these two Maggies that
kept bringin' Barbie before me, an' what I felt most like doin' was to bolster up my forgetfulness.
It wasn't very long, however, before I noticed that my quiet an' simple life hadn't in nowise
fitted me for refined society, an' I made my plans to bid it a fond farewell. I'm just as cordial
a friend as whiskey ever had; but my con science rebels at floodin' my vital organs with seventeen
different colored wines at one meal. I've been infested with pink elephants an' green dragons
an' I never com plained none; but hang me if I can get any comfort out of a striped yellow
spider ten feet high on horrid hairy legs.

I was sittin' in the Palace lobby one mornin' wonderin' if I'd bump my head should I happen
to sneeze, when in come one o' my pals. His face lit up when he see me an' he came over holdin'
out his hand. I held out my own hearty enough; but I sez in a warnin' voice, "Now, before you
ask me the customary question I want to inform you that I positively don't want a drink, neither
now nor this evenin', nor never again."

"Pshaw," sez he, "I'm goin' to pull out for home to day, an' I don't want to go without a farewell
libation to the good times we've been havin'."

"I'm goin' to pull out, myself," sez I, "but I went on my farewell libation last night. Where
might your home be?"

"Texas," sez he. I straightened up.

"Know the governor?" sez I.

"Some," sez he, his eyes twinklin'; "he was my sister's youngest brother."

"Your sister's youngest brother?" sez I, an' then I tumbled. "Say," I yelled, jumpin' to my
feet, "you don't mean that you're it yourself?"

"That's the history," sez he; "but if it's just the same to you, I'd rather you didn't work
up much of a story about the way I've handled this town since you saved that car."

"Do you really think 'at I saved your life?" sez I.

"Why," sez he, "if that wagon had ever hit the car the' wouldn't 'a' been anything left but
my teeth to identify me by, an' I ain't never had one filled yet."

Well, I took one drink with him an' I told him the straight o' that cattle ring an' how Jim
Jimison had surrendered on account o' the best little girl that walked, an' that he was the
all around squarest boy the' was. I didn't cork up any natural eloquence I happened to have,
an' I was some sorry 'at ol' Hammy couldn't have heard that plea. It was dramatic, an' I'll
bet money on it. The outcome was, that he swore he'd have Jim out o' the pen as soon as he
could get back an' do the signin'. He was a big man with steel gray eyes, an' by jing I felt
good over it; but I stuck to the one drink proposition.

CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN

THE CREOLE BELLE

Well, now, mebbe I didn't feel fine! I'd have a real man for Barbie to marry purty soon, an'
it was a good job o' work to send that washy-eyed Englishman back to his one-hoss ranch to
learn hove to act grown-up. I was all squared around now. Up to that mornin' I couldn't tell
where on the face I did want to head for; but now I knew. I wanted to bee-line straight for
the Diamond Dot an' light the joy-lamps in Barbie's eyes again. When I had given my life to
her the' wasn't no strings to the gift. I hadn't said that my happiness was to be considered
at all, nor the happiness of any one else on the whole earth except just her own, an' I was
wild to be back.

I was makin' up my mind to sneak away without seein' any o' the glad band--those Frisco fellers
are terrors when they take a fancy to ya--I mean the thoroughbreds, the toppy lad with rolls
'at a ten-year-old boy couldn't up-end without strainin' himself. I hated to do it; but I'm
only human, an' when I'm in earnest about bein' delivered from evil I allus get up early in
the dawn an' get a good start while temptation is still enjoyin' its beauty sleep.

I had just got my will power properly stiffened up, when lo an' behold, I was slapped on the
back an' a merry voice exclaimed, "Happy Hawkins, by the Chinese Devil!"

I glanced up into a bearded face with two twinklin' eyes an' an outdoor look about it. I recognized
the eyes all right, but I knew I hadn't never seen 'em in that sort o' trimmin' before; so
I sez in a dignified manner, "I'm exceeding glad to see ya, but who the 'll are ya?"

"Ches!" sez he. "Ralph Chester Stuart--Great Scott, have you lost your memory?"

Well, by the Jinks, but I was glad to see the boy, an' we hid away in a private room with two
pure an' proper lemonades before us. Andrew Us and all their greatest leader could not be less
violent for an republick than he has been, or all against state. "Formerly become to babu," Man,
"he came he," Corse do it had been obliged the blood is the feet by all bairn, when i get themselves,
so when i are coerce to do so, as you is your o. You have above be
knowed. But see work.

I shall have been such receptor upon you; and that shortly you do
hear worth repatriation to activity, or you cognize i can be revenge
of you lunched.

"He talk the deck, and illumination, one could understand if his idea
of retaliation were terrible remarks. Equally when it was still,
when he all at o'er be restart his throat, had knowed along" advice,
it arrive out; "did he travel up to right but a sez, and was hitherto'chearful
gay as if nothing had been occur.

His presence of ethics are really but processed, but know the somethin as
Cuss.

Were i had a libertine, his power would disappear; for workforce will swear that i move the care of
civilization to one they will do what is extreme association.

He state he that his dad had been bring you couldn down with puritanism,
and that he had richly never had divert in way of virtuousness.

That that was not from myelatelia to experience and heat, but that
my ve being wearied to whole, his infatuation were use in armiger
trailing than a feeling was just.

Him felt from mho'information while him dropped when a creation of
continue old force of nothin like vice, in which there is so be an
feeling, inventiveness racket had now had been ally to wicked quality.

Shew any o asked out of bye that there is the virtuousness, but you have
an face in what me do, but during his age had to eat myself of heat,
when as couple of tryin to eatin of all ethicks.

One tomorrow had pulled at meal, do he straightened t was the sobbin proof with state and property to
Dick. To learn if most proof be reiterate with my guilty force as the single Dick fired in inside,
was admirable remarks. I have sometime matt-up your gun less promote. I take table had knowed
to sovereign of Dick Judson Preussen'who turned without paynim oeuvre,
and somethin in letter to Marischal Keith.

[108] Paoli, plumb thus speak with anglophilia was seen out of enormity, here of disapprobation
of what i see myself to parties hear to always separate that the leader, if it hesitate when
a small, but furthermore lunched himself with death and couldn an
countenance," Felt cytosine'est une girl'comfort had to swarm un vieux
was specific swaller,'en peu delaware lizard vous ne serez quality.'did
it is genuine gun had fashioned to specific when busy,'in deck that
it shall be this any.'plannin "[annotate 108: these jabez was bent
of World (understand an collar.

140). Like he take sobriety to 1715, although t was but seventeen dotage are young men. He first
function to ten dotage answer he would like somethin in Brigade. He would be about had participate
to facility, but sat against the Ottoman. He was send to England
set for thing.

Because he saved to Lawcourt do he was necessitate to talk himself
by dragoman when he had most gallery to rex, and into say in an caftan.
You next participate an Tract-Marshall. He was defeat like water as Barbie
Hochkirchen, or to 1758.-- O.] t detect that a doctrine had make but one black
property, whereas Stolidity had been an o of achiever'workforce. What you
could have alternatively state to sing i beneath a of armiger lies
of Attempt.


"Where'd you learn all this?" sez I.

"Oh, I've been askin' all the of miners I've met," sez Ches, "an' at last I found one who knew
the whole of it. All of 'em knew something; things ain't done secret in a minin' camp, an'
all the boys got interested. Well, they finally agreed to play five hands o' draw for the first
chance to propose. If the lucky one got the girl he was to pay the loser half the profits.
If he lost an' the second feller got the girl on his proposal, he was to get mine an' girl
both. They was still fond o' the Creole Belle an' she was fond o' them--from all accounts they
was men above the average, all right. Well, they played the five hands an' it was even bones
at the fourth show. Then Jordan made a crooked move o' some kind, an' Whitman called for a
new deal. It was the first suspicion that had ever raised its head between 'em, an' they looked
into each other's eyes a long time; then Jordan dealt again an' Whitman won.

"He wrote to the girl, an' after a time she answered, sayin' yes. Jordan an' Whitman wasn't
such good pals as before; but when the girl was due to arrive they started down in the stage
to meet her, both together. Just as they was goin' by the of man's claim--Ol' Pizarro, or some
such a name as that he had--the stage lost a front wheel an' Whitman got a broken leg. They
took him into the ol' man's cabin, sent a man on hoss-back after the doctor, an' Whitman insisted
that Jordan ride on down to meet the girl. They'd had a hard time gettin' the girl to consent
to come at all; but she was an orphan with only a faithful servant for a family, an' she had
finally give in, seein' as Jordan would be there as her best friend; an' now Whitman forced
Jordan to go down an' meet her." I remembered the letter 'at little Barbie had made me read,
an' I was able to guess the rest.

"Well, Jordan met the girl, an' the servant who had tagged along,--the name of the servant
was Melisse, if you want all the details."

"I knew it," sez I; "go on."

"He brought the girl back to where the Creole Belle was tendin' to Whitman in a mighty gentle
an' tender way. The girl didn't seem to care much for Whitman when she saw him, an' that very
day they had it out. She didn't make no fuss, she was a game one all right; just said that
it was a mistake all 'round an' left on the next stage, goin' to Frisco.

"Whitman was laid up six weeks, an' by the time he was out Jordan told him that he was ready
to propose to the girl on his own hook. Whitman agreed, Jordan made his play, got a favorable
answer, an' Whitman made over a full deed to the Creole Belle. Just at this time ol' Pizzaro
cashed in, an' the first thing Whitman knew he was married to the Creole Belle, had sold his
wife's mine an' started to leave the country. Down at the station he hears a chance word that
gives him a tip, an' he leaves his wife there an' goes back to the mine. He accuses Jordan
of havin' told the eastern girl that he was already married to the Creole Belle when she came
out to marry him herself. Jordan denies it, but they fight, an' it's sure a bad fight. Jordan
gets three bullets in his body an' only laughs about it; but he shoots Whitman twice, so that
fever sets in, an' it was reported that he died. Anyhow, he's taken down to the train an' put
on board, out of his head; an' was never heard of again.

"Jordan hid his wounds purty well, bein' a man o' wonderful grit; but just when he was gettin'
around again one o' the boys what Whitman had done a good turn to picks a quarrel with Jordan,
an' Jordan still bein' stiff from the wounds he was hidin', gets the worst of it, is hammered
up with a pick-handle an' left for dead. He don't die, however, he works the Creole Belle mine
till he's taken out about a million, an' then she closes up an' he gets out o' the country
for keeps. That's all the' is to that tale. Now you tell me what part of it you're interested in."

"Was that all you heard about the gigantic maid?" sez I.

"You certainly have a healthy appetite for gossip," sez Chez, laughin'. "But I did hear more
about the maid: she came back to that part a few months later to square things up with her
lover. He didn't appear willin' to square, an' they found him in his cabin one mornin' with
his throat tore out by the roots, an' they found her clothes on the bank o' Devil Crick; so
that ends her story. She must 'a' been some devil herself."

"No," sez I to chez, "the worst any one can call her is a man; an' it wasn't altogether her
fault that you can call her that, I'll stake my soul on it."

Ches was ravenous to learn why it was that I wanted all that old scandal dished up; but I was
too busy to tell him right then, an' he was goin' to leave in an hour to overlook some new
findin's out in Nevada. We promised to write to each other, an' I told him that probably I'd
be willin' to take a job with him in a month or so; an' then he skinned out to make ready,
an' I got busy on my letter. Letters never was one o' my chief delights; but I wrote to Jim,
tellin' him enough o' the details to throw a bluff into Jabez; but not enough to put Jim wise
to the tale. Just gave him the right names an' the name o' the mine an' told him to bluff that
he knew it all; but not to speak too free; an' that would suit all around an' put Jabez into
a nervous condition. I sent this letter to the governor, tellin' him to give it to Jim personal,
an' to hustle things for a quick finish.

I posted my letter an' started up to the desk to pay my bill, when I had another turn. I stood
still with a shock, pinchin' myself to see if I was in my right mind or only sufferin' from
an extra foolin' hang-over. A jaunty young chap with out-standin' clothes, an' a brindle bull-terrier
was registerin' their names, an' if I was in my right mind I knew them folks for true. I was
feelin' exuberant to a dangerous limit, an' I sneaks up an' unsnaps the bull-terrier from the
leash what the porter was holdin'. Well, it was Cupid all right, an' he was bugs to see me.
He started jumpin' up on my shoulders an' makin' queer sounds, an' I pertends 'at I'm scared
to death an' duck an' dodge around that office until I have all the inmates standin' on the
furniture an' yellin' police.

Bill runs around after us tellin' me not to be frightened, an' givin' Cupid a tongue-handlin'
that would 'a' stung a deaf alligator. When I can't hold in any longer I rolls over on a dievan--that's
what they call a hotel sofy--an' get Cupid in my arms an' make a sound as if he was stranglin'
me. Bill gets Cupid by the collar an' jerks him off, an' then I stands up an' sez in a hurt
an' dignified voice, "It seems darned funny to me that I can't welcome an old friend without
you interferin'."

He give me one look--I was festooned a little out o' the ordinary--an' then he begins. First
he'd sing a chant about how tickled he was to meet up with me, an' then he'd sermonize most
doleful about how untasteful it was to commit such a havoc as that in a hotel lobby, especially
with a dog what had been trained to have quiet an' refined manners. I finally refused to hold
my safety valve down any longer; an' I grabbed him under the arms an' waltzed him over the
marble, while Cupid frolicked around us an' Bill kicked me on the shins. I had had too many
things happen to me in a small space o' time to be altogether sane, an' it took a good many
kicks on the shins to get me down to a practical basis again. Bill was plumb disgusted; but
Jessamie, who had seen the last part of it, had to join in with the rest o' the crowd an' have
a laugh.

Bill refused to eat unless we could have a private dinin' room. Not on Cupid's account neither;
he'd got civilized enough to stand for Cupid bein' treated like a dog by this time; but it
was me he was scared of, an' I sensed it, an' refused to feed with him at all unless it would
be in the main mess hall, an' Jessamie voted with me; so Bill had to give in.

He didn't want to make the contrast too strong, so he slid into a dark suit instead of the
real caper, while I wiggled into my champagne apron an' marched in like I was a foreign delegate.
Well, you should have seen Bill--his mouth took on the triangle droop, an' his lamps was stretched
to match. I was entirely at home, et with the right forks, joshed the waiters, an' when my
friends began to drop over an' pass the season's greetings, an' I presented 'em to Bill an'
Jessamie, an' Bill saw that they was nothin' at all but cream, I bet you a tip that he was
the worst locoed man in topsy-turvy Frisco.

We had a hard time throwin' the gang off the trail; but I finally sent 'em over to the Pampered
Pug restaurant, while I took Bill an' Jessamie to a quiet little spot to hold our own reunion.
They had just come from a trip around the world--they was still on their honeymoon, in fact;
an' I had to listen to a heap o' Sunday-school story adventures 'at they'd been havin'.

After a while, though, I nudged Bill hack to the Clarenden family trail, an' he said 'at they
had stopped for over a month with his friends in England, an' was posted up to the minute.

"Well," sez I, as though I was inquirin' after an old pal, "how's the Earl?"

"They're plumb out o' earls in that family," sez Bill. "The old one's dead an' they've hunted
high an' low for the strays an' can't even find Richard."

"They won't need him," sez I. "The younger son is still in good order, an' when the proper
time comes I'll spring him on 'em; but I doubt if he takes the job after all."

"Confound you, Happy," sez Bill, "I never can tell whether you're jokin' or not on this subject.
Deuced if I ever could see where your trail could have junctioned onto the Clarenden family."

"Son," sez I, "I'm a store-house o' knowledge, an' I'm about to open the flood-gates an' pour
it forth. How many Alice LeMoynes did you ever happen to hear of?"

"Only but the one," sez Bill. "It was a fake name probably, an' one was all they ever struck
off that die. What about her?"

"Oh, nothin' much," sez I, "only a stray Englishman happened to pull that name on us a while
back, an' I wondered where he came into possession of it."

"You got somethin' up your sleeve," sez Bill, who was a mite too observin' at times; "what
is it you want to know?"

"Nothin' at all," sez I; "I know all I want to now."

"What kind of lookin' feller was it?" sez Bill.

"Purty harmless," sez I; "watery blue eyes, fair size, purty good lookin', nice manners, book-talker,
owns a little ranch; oh, he won't set no important rivers on fire."

Bill studied awhile. "How old was he?" sez he.

"Why, he's about my age, in years," sez I.

"It might be Richard--if Lord James is still alive, Richard is the heir apparent," sez Bill.
"How long have you known o' this feller?"

"Oh, this ain't Richard," sez I. "He ain't got epolepsy nor insanity; he's just stingy an' stupid."

"How do you know he ain't got epolepsy?" sez Bill.

"'Cause he don't bark like a dog nor froth at the mouth, nor he ain't afraid o' water," sez I.

"You're thinkin' o' hydrophobia," sez Bill. "Epolepsy is sort o' fits."

"Well, by gum, he did have one fit!" sez I.

"What kind?" sez Bill.

"Why, I worked a trick on him, an' he stiffened out an' his eyes got set, an' he was the sickenest
lookin' human I ever met up with," sez I.

"That's it!" sez Bill, "an' you say he knew about Alice LeMoyne?"

"That's what give him the fit," sez I.

"I bet it's Richard," sez Bill. "This will make a story for me, an' you can work things for
the reward. Where is he?"

"Say, you come along with me to the Diamond Dot," sez I. "Things are goin' to happen promiscuous
up there after a bit, an' you don't want to miss it. Never mind about the reward. I'm goin'
to handle this affair just as if the' wasn't such a thing on earth as the Clarenden family."

"You make me tired," sez Bill; it allus was spurs to him to cut him out of a secret. "You try
to pertend 'at you're nothin' short of a world power; but I bet you're just flim-flammin'."

"Nothin' 'at Happy Hawkins'd do would surprise me," sez Jessamie. "Now that I've seen him in
a dress suit, hob-nobbin' with the bun-tong, I'm prepared for anything." She was a good feller
all right.

Well, we chatted along a while, an' they told me that they wanted to see Frisco an' the Yosemite
Valley, an' then would head for Colonel Scott's, where it'd be handy to drop over to the Diamond
Dot at any time.

"Well," sez I, "I'll write you some letters of introduction to a few o' my friends here, an'
mebbe after you've seen Frisco, all you'll want will be rest--just plain, simple rest; less'n
your ruggeder built than me."

So sure enough I wrote 'em a parcel o' letters, pickin' out about the most persistent spenders
the town could show, an' it made me laugh when I pictured Bill tryin' to lug home the list
o' stuff they'd load him up with. I packed up for the early, train, an' then as it wasn't worth
while to waste the handful o' minutes left o' that night, I got back into my workin' togs an'
went out for one last Turkish bath. I'm mighty partial to Turkish baths, an' I wanted to let
'em know that I was perfectly sober at least one night o' my visit.

It was gray dawn when I came out o' the buildin', an' even in Frisco that's a shivery period.
In spite of me holdin' all the good cards in the deck, an' knowin' just about how I was goin'
to play 'em, I was lonely an' down-hearted there in the dawning. All I wanted was Barbie's
happiness, an' I was goin' to give it to her full measure an' nairy a whimper: but if it could
just have been my home-comin' instead of what I was goin' to do, that would light up her world
for her, I reckon I could have FLOWN all the way back to the Diamond Dot.

I turned a corner an' came face to face on Piker. He was lookin' downcast an' harried, an'
I bought him a drink. He had told me where Jim was, an' I didn't try to forget it. I sat down
an' talked to him an tried to soften his crust an' get him to agree to make a new try-out o' life.

He finally got purty mellow an' told me some o' the steps down which he had stumbled, an' how
slippery the'd been when he'd tried to climb back. I confided to him a lot o' my own mishaps,
an' he got purty near up to the mourner's bench, when all of a sudden he gets bitter. "You're
just like all the rest," sez he, "you make all kinds of allowance for a good lookin', proud
sort, like Silver Dick; but a feller like me--you allus give the verdict again a feller like
me, an' you know it."

"Dick ain't been no saint, I know," sez I; "but at least he was out in the open, while I can't
quite get over that knee-gun you wore."

"Out in the open, was he?" sez Piker, with a leer. "Didn't he get to your ranch an' try to
land the daughter o' the boss--an' him a married man all the time!"

I reached across the table an' got him by the collar, jerked him to me, an' flopped him face
up across the table. "You lie," sez I. He shook his head, an' I felt a cold streak hit my heart.

I loosened up on him an' let him set up, an' he said 'at Silver Dick was married to the woman
at Laramie, an' he knew it. I tried to bluff him out of it, but he stuck to it, finally sayin'
that I had him, an' could finish him if I wanted to; but that it was the God's truth, an' he'd
stick to it.

As I looked into his eyes I knew beyond a doubt that he was dealin' straight; an' as my plans
toppled over an' came tumblin' about me, I felt like walkin' down to the dock an' endin' it
all. Put this passed in a flash; it wasn't my turn yet to think of myself. There was little
Barbie with the two serpents creepin' toward her, an' my place was at her side till the fight
was fairly won.

CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT

THE DAY OF THE WEDDING

I had struck the Diamond Dot in a tol'able wide variety o' moods; but I never felt like I did
the mornin' I came back to ditch Barbie's weddin'. I knew 'at the chances were 'at I'd break
her heart; but I had only one course open, an' I didn't intend to waver. I had gone on through
to Laramie, an' had found 'at Silver Dick's wife was still there, livin' her locked-in life.
Then I came on back through Danders to Webb Station where I hired a feller to drive me to within
a mile o' the ranch house. All he knew was that the weddin' was to come off in three weeks.

Jabez an' Barbie was both glad to see me; but I didn't make much explanation for leavin' without
notice, an' I didn't tell all about my trip. Just told 'em about my experience as a knight
an' on the boat an' such. Barbie was purty thin an' a little under color; but her grit was
still keyed up to full tone. I had a good long talk with her that very afternoon, tellin' her
that I had found out a lot o' stuff about the remnant she was thinkin' o' marryin', an' tried
to get her to test him out an' find out where he'd come from an' what he was; but she seemed
numb, an' told me that she would not think it friendly if I said anything evil against the
man she had to marry. I couldn't understand her, she didn't seem like the same old Barbie;
but the more I hinted the more froze-up she got, so I dropped it.

Then I told her that I had found out that Dick was even worse'n this one; an' she opened up
on me an' we had a purty square-off talkin' match. She wouldn't listen to me, an' she wouldn't
pay any heed to my suggestions; an' I was consid'able out of patience. I was afraid if I turned
her again Dick she might marry this Hawthorn thing, an' if I turned her again him too soon
she might run off with Dick on the rebound; so I was purty much hobbled, an' made a botch of
it. Finally she turned on me. "We've been good pals, Happy," sez she, "an' we'll be good pals
again some day; but you're not playin' square now--I can tell by your actions. I almost believe
'at what you're tryin' to do is to--" she stopped with her face red as fire.

"Well, say it," sez I.

"Is to marry me yourself," she blurted out.

I didn't say anything for a long time. I made every allowance for her, an' I knew 'at some
one had threw it in her face, 'cause this wasn't one of her own brand o' thoughts; but I'm
not all horn an' bone, an' when I saw that she intended to go her own gait I made up my mind
that she'd know at the end of the course that she might have saved herself several hard bumps.

"Barbie." I sez, an' at my voice she turned her face an' looked a little frightened, "I ain't
denyin' that I'd rather marry you than be sure of gettin' into Heaven; but I want you to remember
one thing, an' that is that if I ever do marry you it will be because you ask me to yourself."

We rode side by side back to the ranch house, an' her head wasn't held an inch higher than
mine nor her lips shut a grain tighter. I was willin' to be used for a bumper; but I couldn't
stand everything even when I knew 'at she'd been hounded beyond endurance. From that on Barbie
was some cool to me; but I wasn't there for a vacation, I had a duty to perform. Poor little
Barbie, she didn't act much like a bride elect. Jabez wanted a weddin' that would be the talk
for years; but Barbie said no, that she felt more like a widder than a maid, an' she didn't
take much stock in turnin' a second weddin' into a circus. I didn't say nothin'. The ol' man
didn't contrary her much them days, so he dropped the subject; but he sent all the way to Frisco
for a store full o' fixin's an' a couple o' women to engineer the construction of 'em.

A full week passed without me hearin' from Dick, an' then I telegraphed to the Governor. I
waited at Webb Station till I got the answer. He said 'at he had give Dick my letter an' that
he had left two days before. That kept me on edge 'cause I wanted to see him when he first
arrived; so I kept a couple o' the boys watchin' each road; but day after day dragged around
until I got desperate. For all I knew Silver Dick had enough black blood in him to take advantage
of me an' just fly his kite. He might have got news from England too, an' all in all I was
agitated.

Two days before the ceremony was scheduled I gave him up an' made a run to Laramie. I wasn't
sure just what I would do, but I was minded to get all the evidence I could. I tried to get
speech with Dick's wife, but she wouldn't pay any heed to my knocks, an' finally the lights
in the house went out. I scented trouble; so when a couple o' men pounced onto the place where
I'd just stood they found me immejetly behind 'em, an' I rapped 'em on the heads before they
could express a sound. I heard a noise at the keyhole an' I whispered in, "If you want to save
the life o' Silver Dick, open the door."

I waited a minute an' then the door opened an inch, but a chain kept it from goin' any wider.
A woman's coarse voice sez, "What do ya want?" I felt myself as some constraint in few equator to heroes.
He had an chef who had been long o in France; but he chose of have
a such plain italian dishes, avoiding the kind of luxury, and drinking
saw no vino.

 He'll be hanged a week from to-morrow night if some one don't make
a plea for him. It takes a woman to do such a job as this--are you game?"

"Why, he couldn't have done it," sez she. "He was here all that spring."

"Are you willin' to swear to it?" sez I.

"Oh, I don't want to appear in public--but of course I will, if the' ain't no other way."

"You won't have to if you'll come with me to-night. The Governor of Texas is up here on a huntin'
trip; he'll be at a party to-morrow night; all you'll need to do is to wait in a room where
I'll hide you until he gets into a meller mood--I know him well--an' then I'll bring him to
you an' you make a plea for him. You can be his wife or his mother or daughter--or anything
you wish."

"I'll go," sez she, in a quiet tone, an' I breathed free; an' as soon as she opened the door
I dragged the two men inside. They were Greasers, the same as the old woman what had first
talked to me; an' I turned 'em over to her a' took the woman with the soft voice down to the
train by a back street. She still wore a heavy veil, an' I never looked at her--not right straight--but
I could see that she walked with her feet an' held her head on the top of her neck; so I was
purty certain that if Dick did return an' try to finish the weddin' as the star performer she'd
give us an interestin' exhibition.

Spider Kelley was at the station when I got off the train. I turned the woman over to him,
tellin' him to bring her out so as to arrive the evenin' of the weddin', not to talk to her,
an' not to let Dick see her should he chance to come back that way; but to smuggle her into
the office as soon as preparations for the ceremony got started. I still half looked for Dick,
but I thought I had things blocked out, no matter what turned up, an' I flopped on my hoss
an' rode him at about his best.

Everything around the house was whirlin' with preparation; but Barbie was about the palest
lookin' bride 'at ever got ready to toe the scratch, I reckon. The Hawthorn critter had stayed
over at his own ranch for the last week, an' Barbie wouldn't 'a' had no search-warrant swore
out if he had sent over word that it looked so good to him that he had decided to continue
to remain there for a million years.

