THE RELIGION OF A SAILOR

A sea captain when he stands upon the bridge, or looks out from his deck-house, thinks much
about God and about the world. Away in the valley yonder among the corn and the poppies men
may well forget all things except the warmth of the sun upon the face, and the kind shadow
under the hedge; but he who journeys through storm and darkness must needs think and think.
One July a couple of years ago I took my supper with a Captain Moran on board the S.S. Margaret,
that had put into a western river from I know not where. I found him a man of many notions
all flavoured with his personality, as is the way with sailors. He talked in his queer sea
manner of God and the world, and up through all his words broke the hard energy of his calling.

"Sur," said he, "did you ever hear tell of the sea captain's prayer?"

"No," said I; "what is it?"

"It is," he replied, "'O Lord, give me a stiff upper lip.'"

"And what does that mean?"

"It means," he said, "that when they come to me some night and wake me up, and say, 'Captain,
we're going down,' that I won't make a fool o' meself. Why, sur, we war in mid Atlantic, and
I standin' on the bridge, when the third mate comes up to me looking mortial bad. Says he,
'Captain, all's up with us.' Says I, 'Didn't you know when you joined that a certain percentage
go down every year?' 'Yes, sur,' says he; and says I, 'Arn't you paid to go down?' 'Yes, sur,'
says he; and says I, 'Then go down like a man, and be damned to you!"'

CONCERNING THE NEARNESS TOGETHER OF HEAVEN, EARTH, AND PURGATORY

In Ireland this world and the world we go to after death are not far apart. I have heard of
a ghost that was many years in a tree and many years in the archway of a bridge, and my old
Mayo woman says, "There is a bush up at my own place, and the people do be saying that there
are two souls doing their penance under it. When the wind blows one way the one has shelter,
and when it blows from the north the other has the shelter. It is twisted over with the way
they be rooting under it for shelter. I don't believe it, but there is many a one would not
pass by it at night." Indeed there are times when the worlds are so near together that it seems
as if our earthly chattels were no more than the shadows of things beyond. A lady I knew once
saw a village child running about with a long trailing petticoat upon her, and asked the creature
why she did not have it cut short. "It was my grandmother's," said the child; "would you have
her going about yonder with her petticoat up to her knees, and she dead but four days?" I have
read a story of a woman whose ghost haunted her people because they had made her grave-clothes
so short that the fires of purgatory burned her knees. The peasantry expect to have beyond
the grave houses much like their earthly homes, only there the thatch will never grow leaky,
nor the white walls lose their lustre, nor shall the dairy be at any time empty of good milk
and butter. But now and then a landlord or an agent or a gauger will go by begging his bread,
to show how God divides the righteous from the unrighteous.

1892 and 1902.

THE EATERS OF PRECIOUS STONES

Sometimes when I have been shut off from common interests, and have for a little forgotten
to be restless, I get waking dreams, now faint and shadow-like, now vivid and solid-looking,
like the material world under my feet. Whether they be faint or vivid, they are ever beyond
the power of my will to alter in any way. They have their own will, and sweep hither and thither,
and change according to its commands. One day I saw faintly an immense pit of blackness, round
which went a circular parapet, and on this parapet sat innumerable apes eating precious stones
out of the palms of their hands. The stones glittered green and crimson, and the apes devoured
them with an insatiable hunger. I knew that I saw the Celtic Hell, and my own Hell, the Hell
of the artist, and that all who sought after beautiful and wonderful things with too avid a
thirst, lost peace and form and became shapeless and common. I have seen into other people's
hells also, and saw in one an infernal Peter, who had a black face and white lips, and who
weighed on a curious double scales not only the evil deeds committed, but the good deeds left
undone, of certain invisible shades. I could see the scales go up and down, but I could not
see the shades who were, I knew, crowding about him. I saw on another occasion a quantity of
demons of all kinds of shapes--fish-like, serpent-like, ape-like, and dog-like --sitting about
a black pit such as that in my own Hell, and looking at a moon--like reflection of the Heavens
which shone up from the depths of the pit.

OUR LADY OF THE HILLS

When we were children we did not say at such a distance from the post- office, or so far from
the butcher's or the grocer's, but measured things by the covered well in the wood, or by the
burrow of the fox in the hill. We belonged then to God and to His works, and to things come
down from the ancient days. We would not have been greatly surprised had we met the shining
feet of an angel among the white mushrooms upon the mountains, for we knew in those days immense
despair, unfathomed love--every eternal mood,--but now the draw-net is about our feet. A few
miles eastward of Lough Gill, a young Protestant girl, who was both pretty herself and prettily
dressed in blue and white, wandered up among those mountain mushrooms, and I have a letter
of hers telling how she met a troop of children, and became a portion of their dream. When
they first saw her they threw themselves face down in a bed of rushes, as if in a great fear;
but after a little other children came about them, and they got up and followed her almost
bravely. She noticed their fear, and presently stood still and held out her arms. A little
girl threw herself into them with the cry, "Ah, you are the Virgin out o' the picture!" "No,"
said another, coming near also, "she is a sky faery, for she has the colour of the sky." "No,"
said a third, "she is the faery out of the foxglove grown big." The other children, however,
would have it that she was indeed the Virgin, for she wore the Virgin's colours. Her good Protestant
heart was greatly troubled, and she got the children to sit down about her, and tried to explain
who she was, but they would have none of her explanation. Finding explanation of no avail,
she asked had they ever heard of Christ? "Yes," said one; "but we do not like Him, for He would
kill us if it were not for the Virgin." "Tell Him to be good to me," whispered another into
her ear. "We would not let me near Him, for dad says I am a divil," burst out a third.

She talked to them a long time about Christ and the apostles, but was finally interrupted by
an elderly woman with a stick, who, taking her to be some adventurous hunter for converts,
drove the children away, despite their explanation that here was the great Queen of Heaven
come to walk upon the mountain and be kind to them. When the children had gone she went on
her way, and had walked about half-a-mile, when the child who was called "a divil" jumped down
from the high ditch by the lane, and said she would believe her "an ordinary lady" if she had
"two skirts," for "ladies always had two skirts." The "two skirts" were shown, and the child
went away crestfallen, but a few minutes later jumped down again from the ditch, and cried
angrily, "Dad's a divil, mum's a divil, and I'm a divil, and you are only an ordinary lady,"
and having flung a handful of mud and pebbles ran away sobbing. When my pretty Protestant had
come to her own home she found that she had dropped the tassels of her parasol. A year later
she was by chance upon the mountain, but wearing now a plain black dress, and met the child
who had first called her the Virgin out o' the picture, and saw the tassels hanging about the
child's neck, and said, "I am the lady you met last year, who told you about Christ." "No,
you are not! no, you are not! no, you are not!" was the passionate reply. And after all, it
was not my pretty Protestant, but Mary, Star of the Sea, still walking in sadness and in beauty
upon many a mountain and by many a shore, who cast those tassels at the feet of the child.
It is indeed fitting that man pray to her who is the mother of peace, the mother of dreams,
and the mother of purity, to leave them yet a little hour to do good and evil in, and to watch
old Time telling the rosary of the stars.

THE GOLDEN AGE

A while ago I was in the train, and getting near Sligo. The last time I had been there something
was troubling me, and I had longed for a message from those beings or bodiless moods, or whatever
they be, who inhabit the world of spirits. The message came, for one night I saw with blinding
distinctness a black animal, half weasel, half dog, moving along the top of a stone wall, and
presently the black animal vanished, and from the other side came a white weasel-like dog,
his pink flesh shining through his white hair and all in a blaze of light; and I remembered
a pleasant belief about two faery dogs who go about representing day and night, good and evil,
and was comforted by the excellent omen. But now I longed for a message of another kind, and
chance, if chance there is, brought it, for a man got into the carriage and began to play on
a fiddle made apparently of an old blacking-box, and though I am quite unmusical the sounds
filled me with the strangest emotions. I seemed to hear a voice of lamentation out of the Golden
Age. It told me that we are imperfect, incomplete, and no more like a beautiful woven web,
but like a bundle of cords knotted together and flung into a comer. It said that the world
was once all perfect and kindly, and that still the kindly and perfect world existed, but buried
like a mass of roses under many spadefuls of earth. The faeries and the more innocent of the
spirits dwelt within it, and lamented over our fallen world in the lamentation of the wind-tossed
reeds, in the song of the birds, in the moan of the waves, and in the sweet cry of the fiddle.
It said that with us the beautiful are not clever and the clever are not beautiful, and that
the best of our moments are marred by a little vulgarity, or by a pin-prick out of sad recollection,
and that the fiddle must ever lament about it all. It said that if only they who live in the
Golden Age could die we might be happy, for the sad voices would be still; but alas! alas!
they must sing and we must weep until the Eternal gates swing open.

We were now getting into the big glass-roofed terminus, and the fiddler put away his old blacking-box
and held out his hat for a copper, and then opened the door and was gone.

A REMONSTRANCE WITH SCOTSMEN FOR HAVING SOURED THE DISPOSITION OF THEIR GHOSTS AND FAERIES

Not only in Ireland is faery belief still extant. It was only the other day I heard of a Scottish
farmer who believed that the lake in front of his house was haunted by a water-horse. He was
afraid of it, and dragged the lake with nets, and then tried to pump it empty. It would have
been a bad thing for the water-horse had he found him. An Irish peasant would have long since
come to terms with the creature. For in Ireland there is something of timid affection between
men and spirits. They only ill-treat each other in reason. Each admits the other side to have
feelings. There are points beyond which neither will go. No Irish peasant would treat a captured
faery as did the man Campbell tells of. He caught a kelpie, and tied her behind him on his
horse. She was fierce, but he kept her quiet by driving an awl and a needle into her. They
came to a river, and she grew very restless, fearing to cross the water. Again he drove the
awl and needle into her. She cried out, "Pierce me with the awl, but keep that slender, hair-
like slave (the needle) out of me." They came to an inn. He turned the light of a lantern on
her; immediately she dropped down like a falling star, and changed into a lump of jelly. She
was dead. Nor would they treat the faeries as one is treated in an old Highland poem. A faery
loved a little child who used to cut turf at the side of a faery hill. Every day the faery
put out his hand from the hill with an enchanted knife. The child used to cut the turf with
the knife. It did not take long, the knife being charmed. Her brothers wondered why she was
done so quickly. At last they resolved to watch, and find out who helped her. They saw the
small hand come out of the earth, and the little child take from it the knife. When the turf
was all cut, they saw her make three taps on the ground with the handle. The small hand came
out of the hill. Snatching the knife from the child, they cut the hand off with a blow. The
faery was never again seen. He drew his bleeding arm into the earth, thinking, as it is recorded,
he had lost his hand through the treachery of the child.

In Scotland you are too theological, too gloomy. You have made even the Devil religious. "Where
do you live, good-wyf, and how is the minister?" he said to the witch when he met her on the
high-road, as it came out in the trial. You have burnt all the witches. In Ireland we have
left them alone. To be sure, the "loyal minority" knocked out the eye of one with a cabbage-stump
on the 31st of March, 1711, in the town of Carrickfergus. But then the "loyal minority" is
half Scottish. You have discovered the faeries to be pagan and wicked. You would like to have
them all up before the magistrate. In Ireland warlike mortals have gone amongst them, and helped
them in their battles, and they in turn have taught men great skill with herbs, and permitted
some few to hear their tunes. Carolan slept upon a faery rath. Ever after their tunes ran in
his head, and made him the great musician he was. In Scotland you have denounced them from
the pulpit. In Ireland they have been permitted by the priests to consult them on the state
of their souls. Unhappily the priests have decided that they have no souls, that they will
dry up like so much bright vapour at the last day; but more in sadness than in anger they have
said it. The Catholic religion likes to keep on good terms with its neighbours.

These two different ways of looking at things have influenced in each country the whole world
of sprites and goblins. For their gay and graceful doings you must go to Ireland; for their
deeds of terror to Scotland. Our Irish faery terrors have about them something of make- believe.
When a peasant strays into an enchanted hovel, and is made to turn a corpse all night on a
spit before the fire, we do not feel anxious; we know he will wake in the midst of a green
field, the dew on his old coat. In Scotland it is altogether different. You have soured the
naturally excellent disposition of ghosts and goblins. The piper M'Crimmon, of the Hebrides,
shouldered his pipes, and marched into a sea cavern, playing loudly, and followed by his dog.
For a long time the people could hear the pipes. He must have gone nearly a mile, when they
heard the sound of a struggle. Then the piping ceased suddenly. Some time went by, and then
his dog came out of the cavern completely flayed, too weak even to howl. Nothing else ever
came out of the cavern. Then there is the tale of the man who dived into a lake where treasure
was thought to be. He saw a great coffer of iron. Close to the coffer lay a monster, who warned
him to return whence he came. He rose to the surface; but the bystanders, when they heard he
had seen the treasure, persuaded him to dive again. He dived. In a little while his heart and
liver floated up, reddening the water. No man ever saw the rest of his body.

These water-goblins and water-monsters are common in Scottish folk- lore. We have them too,
but take them much less dreadfully. Our tales turn all their doings to favour and to prettiness,
or hopelessly humorize the creatures. A hole in the Sligo river is haunted by one of these
monsters. He is ardently believed in by many, but that does not prevent the peasantry playing
with the subject, and surrounding it with conscious fantasies. When I was a small boy I fished
one day for congers in the monster hole. Returning home, a great eel on my shoulder, his head
flapping down in front, his tail sweeping the ground behind, I met a fisherman of my acquaintance.
I began a tale of an immense conger, three times larger than the one I carried, that had broken
my line and escaped. "That was him," said the fisherman. "Did you ever hear how he made my
brother emigrate? My brother was a diver, you know, and grubbed stones for the Harbour Board.
One day the beast comes up to him, and says, 'What are you after?' 'Stones, sur,' says he.
'Don't you think you had better be going?' 'Yes, sur,' says he. And that's why my brother emigrated.
The people said it was because he got poor, but that's not true."

You--you will make no terms with the spirits of fire and earth and air and water. You have
made the Darkness your enemy. We--we exchange civilities with the world beyond.

WAR

