THREE DIALOGUES BETWEEN HYLAS AND PHILONOUS,
  IN OPPOSITION TO SCEPTICS AND ATHEISTS

by

George Berkeley (1685-1753)

THE FIRST DIALOGUE

PHILONOUS.  Good morrow, Hylas: I did not expect to find you abroad so early. The
Ministry of War, the Management of the Weapons and other military facilities were full of soldiers
and officers, protected by recommendations, had found means to circumvent his bad luck, getting
rid of joining their battalions, and the abuse took such proportions that it was necessary
to avoid it.

When stakeholders were calmer, he ordered that, within three days, all individuals placed on
the premises of the Ministry in the past six months hospitalized in their bodies, whatever their
origin and how this meant the inevitable accuracy out to operations overnight, Pepe decided carry
out its purpose. Regarding his father, had everything planned: what was was made as simple
as sad a stretcher to transport you on Engracia house, and carry then his bed, his clothes and
some furniture, preserved more useful than for sellers. The difficulty was in determining
to take Dona Manuela and Leocadia. What would you do? To persist in following up on the streets
of keypads, with what resources? And to find another room, what means would have? Not hide
the clear understanding Pepe who, though sick of reason, should not be thrown into the street
to his mother and sister, but also saw that the fanaticism of Dona Manuela and subsequent behavior
could result in Leocadia during his absence, the total abandonment of the poor old man.

- You speak to them - Pepe said Miller, trying this. I lack courage, and may also I miss calm.

- I see your mother ... With Leo did not speak.

- Whatever.

- When
you think that we have the transfer to your father?

- This is done
in one morning.

The main thing is that you speak.

If God touched my heart! What do I do not want to leave the house?

... and although they lend themselves, where are they to put in and how will they live? It seems
incredible that we've got to have to think about it!

Miller did not seek to Dona Manuela at home, not to see Leocadia, but eager to meet the difficult
task of Pepe, went to the alms of light. The first trip was made in vain: Dona Manuela refused
to receive him.

HYL.  What I can anything be more fantastical, more repugnant to Common Sense, or a more manifest
piece of Scepticism, than to believe there is no such thing as MATTER?

PHIL.  Softly, good Hylas. What if it should prove that you, who hold there is, are, by virtue
of that opinion, a greater sceptic, and maintain more paradoxes and repugnances to Common Sense,
than I who believe no such thing?

HYL.  You may as soon persuade me, the part is greater than the whole, as that, in order to
avoid absurdity and Scepticism, I should ever be obliged to give up my opinion in this point.

PHIL.  Well then, are you content to admit that opinion for true, which upon examination shall
appear most agreeable to Common Sense, and remote from Scepticism?

HYL.  With all my heart. Since you are for raising disputes about the plainest things in nature,
I am content for once to hear what you have to say.

PHIL.  Pray, Hylas, what do you mean by a SCEPTIC?

HYL.  I mean what all men mean--one that doubts of everything.

PHIL.  He then who entertains no doubts concerning some particular point, with regard to that
point cannot be thought a sceptic.

HYL.  I agree with you.

PHIL.  Whether doth doubting consist in embracing the affirmative or negative side of a question?

HYL.  In neither; for whoever understands English cannot but know that DOUBTING signifies a
suspense between both.

PHIL.  He then that denies any point, can no more be said to doubt of it, than he who affirmeth
it with the same degree of assurance.

HYL.  True.

PHIL.  And, consequently, for such his denial is no more to be esteemed a sceptic than the other.

HYL.  I acknowledge it.

PHIL.  How cometh it to pass then, Hylas, that you pronounce me A SCEPTIC, because I deny what
you affirm, to wit, the existence of Matter? Since, for aught you can tell, I am as peremptory
in my denial, as you in your affirmation.

HYL.  Hold, Philonous, I have been a little out in my definition; but every false step a man
makes in discourse is not to be insisted on. I said indeed that a SCEPTIC was one who doubted
of everything; but I should have added, or who denies the reality and truth of things.

PHIL.  What things? It
is a cauldron that stuns the world and the troubled world comes to blows.

[Illustration: Arc de Triomphe.]

[Illustration: The Magdalena.]

=
Day fifth =.

La Magdalena.

At half past seven p.m. we had to ask for help to the cab, and headed to the Magdalena. Beautiful
building! Sumptuous Factory! When he saw the huge group, I think that I am not in Paris. I think
I have been traveling when asleep and awake in Greece. La Magdalena Greek is a magnificent
palace, not a Christian church. A temple is the house of God, for to awaken in our minds the religious
emotion. Where am not religious emotion, I find the temple, and Magdalene, the beautiful and splendid
palace, do not wake up in my soul emotion that almost divine. Contemplating, I feel the enthusiasm
of admiration, not reverence of faith: I see statues of heroes, no statues of saints, I think
of Alexander, Caesar, of Hannibal, I do not remember God, I emember of Cyprus and Venus, can
not remember the mountain Calvary, or the Redeemer, and of the Virgin,
or the Magdalena: I remember the glory, not I remember the Passion.

The Magdalena is a magnificent anachronism, a stunning palace and a bad basilica, a large fortress
and a bad church, a large temple and a poor Gentile Christian church.

I see him before me, I'm looking for four or five minutes, I want focus, I want to abstract,
I worship, I want the idea of ​​a supreme being let fall on my soul an immense shadow, I can not
get it. Muses call me, the fable Greek distracts me, the forests of the island of Calypso
I speak of love, I see flowers, women, profane altars, smell intoxicating perfumes, divisive
and forests, whose shadows seem to hide wanton mysteries, in the distance I hear a noise that
worries me, seduce me, but seduce seduces me as a magician or a circe. We give pleasure, but
we give a sigh: our senses are happy, our heart is sad. In short, watching this rich Athenian
palace, I see everything but the tears of Mary Magdalene, that hidden
tear and humble, devout and holy tear that poetry is a more sublime
than the most sublime poetry for all poets of the world, the poetry
of Calvary.

How the stone teaches us too!

What bigger story is the architecture! The book can written in two ways, on paper and marble.
The press has always existed, previously called Phidias, then called Gutenberg.

Studying the fortress that fills me with admiration, we understand the infinite superiority of
Christianity over all religions of Asia, ancient Greece and ancient
Rome not only in matters of dogma, science, politics and morality,
but even in art.

Chateaubriand said very well: the same bronze bell Rue, inspires a certain melancholy Sweet
and religious ecstasy indefinable way, when Christian sentiments.

Christian poetry dazzles us not, does not take away, call us, attracts
us, we cherish: no seduce us, we persuade us not freaks, we sleeping.

Christian poetry, Christian art, is not brilliant, dazzling, serious,
severe, modest.

It is a figure that half covers with a veil.

The part we see, makes us fall in love her, and love.

The party who fails to see, makes us guess a wonder, and worship.

Paganism did nothing but love, because he saw no more than forms.

The Christian love and adore at the same time, because while is body
and soul, shapes and wonders, earth and sky, humanity and God.

The gentle art speaks to the senses, the heart and to the fantasy.

Christian art speaks to a sense, the conscience and to the faith.

The gentle art of poetry known pleasure.

Christian art knows and feels the poetry of pain.

The women had pagan art.

Christian art is Maria and Magdalena.

Under asiátiaco and Greek art, we close our eyes and see orgies.

Under the art of Christianity, we close our eyes and see virgins.

The Abbe graciously, Christianity has lifted us. According to the happy expression of Pascal, brings
paganism, Christianity leads us. The one comes, the other goes.

To return to the building that I have before, we are freaks, do not call us, it belongs to art gentle,
non-Christian art, a kind of idolatry, not a cult, not a worship, I will to say it again: it is
a brilliant anachronism. Divine worship had not lost almost nothing, if it had carried out
the thought of Napoleon, who wanted to convert into a temple of glory. As a temple of glory,
admirable as a Christian church does not speak to my intelligence and to my faith, even if I
make the heart beat.

There, where now stands the beautiful monument attic, there was, for
seven centuries, more than pastures, shepherds and sheep, Who had
to say then!

The building that I see happen to a church, built the fifteenth century by Charles VIII, which this
prince established the Confraternity of Mary Magdalene, from which comes the name origin the current
monument.

And the church of Charles VIII, succeeded to a farm and a chapel that XII century built a bishop
of Paris, where Christians of that time would pray certainly with more fervor, that nineteenth-century
Christians pray in this Régio castle. Around the chapel and to the farm of that prelate, went
forming a crowded neighborhood known in history with the city name of Bishop, ville-l'Eveque.

Much
later, the city joined the Bishop of Paris, and having verified the opening of Royal Street,
determined to build the present church of the Madeleine, opposite
Bourbon Palace and the Place Louis XV.

This monarch began the work, which, through Revolution, the Empire and the Restoration, came
to Louis Philippe, who put the last stone.

We approached a little. Admission is truly royal, graceful, arrogant. The large front porch Noon, which
is what we see, is crowned by beautiful triangular pediments, and ornate a bas-relief of 35 to 40
feet wide, about 7 or 8 in height, which is to Santa Magdalena lying
at the feet of the Savior, taking his right faith, hope and charity,
and to his left, almost scrambled and confused, the seven deadly sins.

So the right or the left, we saw other figures. The right to be blessed that keep the three
theological virtues, and the left seem to be figures of reprobates, Image of the seven sins.

We
get closer. The massive front door, all of bronze, is a work of remarkable merit; a masterpiece.
There are symbolic and beautifully explained the Ten Commandments the written law, through the
Old Testament figures. That great story, written bronze, has filled me with wonder, not for their
skillful execution, and for its vast and happy intelligence.

We entered the temple, and found ourselves in a spacious atrium or lobby, consisting of an arch from
25 to 30 meters high, about 14 or 15 of latitude, where the two chapels
baptism and marriage.

The first is a marble group representing baptism Jesus Christ, and the second, another group
that represents the marriage of the Virgin to San Jose. The stacks of holy water, Antonin Moyne
master's work, are truly precious in the eyes of art.

We turned to head a look towards the back of the church, and our eyes are dazed lost in a single
ship, high, wide, bright, huge, full of courage, strength and majesty. There is a naive majesty,
biblical, innocent is not that simple and naive majesty which draws its charm from the spirit,
not a Christian Majesty, Majesty is a powerful, splendid, fantastic, ominous, a majesty that derives
its charm of form, a majesty of pagan art; but surely these forms have something impressive,
majestic and big.

Those vaults silent, still and as piled on themselves, that roof formidable that seems to be
suspended by the genius of man, it brings hopes heaven brings no words and consolations of a better
life, but it gives us a great idea land. Here everything breathes greatness, boldness, pride.
Yes, pride, because creations as lavish as this, inspire a feeling of emulation, almost with
envy. Many Men do not escalate the land, if they could, to find after a throne in this palace!
Here think of the site of Troy, Achilles and Ulysses, Hector and Aeneas; here do not think
Providence, nor angels, nor bliss. In this way we are going to Cyprus, not to Jerusalem. With
much talent Napoleon wanted to turn this church into a temple of glory!

We went to the altar, and this great monument confirmed me more in my opinion. The group principal,
the exaltation of Mary Magdalene, carved with the splendid and freshness that Marochetti bold
genius can give to his works, is to our Lord, to the saints, Apostles and evangelists, and
some of this Christian group, on this home religious holy surrounding this family, see Greek art,
poetry, mythology, we offers a multitude of characters, from the baptism of King Clovis, to
the Concordat 1802. Constantine, Clovis, Santa Genoveva, Charlemagne, Godfrey, Joan of Arc,
kings, heroes, Napoleon, Cardinal Gonsalvi, different races, different tastes, different characters,
civilizations contrary: everything is stirred and mixed here, as are mixed in a niche ashes
several dead. That is not an exaltation of the Holy, that's a gallery of history: that is not a
religious picture, it is a social painting: this is not an altar of Christianity, is the trophy
of a nation. This queen of France, not the Redeemer of the world reigns artist, not the priest,
queen man, not God reigns. I do not understand how people pray here.

I could not pray. Ziegler fresh bright, magnificent marble floors, ceilings, beautifully carved
under the direction of Derrida calls and causes all matter, all encourage our sense, all poetry
is against the temple, because everything is against the poetry of the soul on all against the
austere and sublime poetry of the Cross. Santa Magdalena If the lifting of grave is quite
sure sign of the cross is outraged that the worship here, is quite
sure that would look at this temple, which a German looked at the
Basilica of St. Peter in Rome: A delicious temptations.

We left the Magdalena between happy and sad, and at twenty or twenty-five
steps we went back, to dominate the whole of this magnificent palace.

His view is nice, smooth, poetic, almost imposing. Looked outside the building, has a solemn
thing, because big also has its ceremony.

His plane is a rectangle of 70 to 80 feet long, about 20 to 25 of latitude, while some, on a base of
50 or more meters, running a peristyle or gallery of fifty-two gigantic columns among which
are many statues, with the saint's name and legacy. This confirms
more and more my previous idea.

If the temple is not an exhibition of fine arts, what comes to the artist? If is a place of
reverence, to whom we must worship only the saint?

The sculptor also puts his name is, asks his share of devotion, worship,
also claim their share of alms to the faith of the believer.

The sculptor wants to rule alongside the hero of the Church. These statues represent two holies:
the saint and the artist.

The reader should be somewhat lenient with me because I write without preparation, and uncorrected
a word of what I transmit to the paper. I see a thing, and without further background see, say good thing
that comes to mind, or what I feel. This has the disadvantage of neglect should be noted in the
work, but has, however, the advantage of the naivety and stricter
the most perfect accuracy.

Back at the hotel, we met at the door to the woman, who asked us with a smile very nice, if
we came to visit some monuments.

Yes, ma'am, I replied. We come from the Magdalena.

- What vous semble-t-il? What do you think? asked the lady, both fueling a eyes, and scoring
a lot of words, with some pride expression.

- I think, madam, replied,
that it is a place of triumph and joy, not sacrifice meditation and
reflection.

Venus is a not a Magdalene, a feast, not a tear. If that was not so magnificent monument, the
palace would be less, but more serious church.

Saying and doing, I took the stairs and the lady looked at me as a
person thinks and does not see his own thinking.

= =. Sixth day

Rivoli Street, home of the City, July column, Arc de Triomphe, Champs Elysees .-- Do live better
here than elsewhere?

Then people started to turn the lamps in the city, we went to the Rue Rivoli.

Let the reader imagine the following situation: put on the Place de la Concorde, opposite the Magdalena,
are two palaces: one is the Ministry of Marine and Colonies: the other is to different individuals,
which gave the palace to form a group formed symmetrical with the Navy.

Let's now left to the Madeleine, and found that between the Ministry of Marine and garden of the
Tuileries palace of the same name and the Louvre, half a 30 or 35 steps, which extends to the Place
de la Bastille, in a half-mile extension bit more or less.

Here, then, the picture: right (first) garden, the Tuileries Palace, attached to the palace of
the Louvre to the left, a row of houses symmetric three and four floors, but all the same height, forming
arches quite thick, up to the gate concludes that the Louvre.

Second, rows of houses to the right and left, symmetrical in form, not the direction, then a
huge turret with garden, then the house of the city with large square;
Finally, new houses along the street of San Antonio, which extends
to the square Bastille.

This is what is called the Rue de Rivoli. Is from 300 to 400 buildings, 300 and 400 arcs, each
of which hangs at the same height a gas lamp, is crisscrossed by 76 Street, among which I count
the Place Royale, the Royal Palace across the road and the Boulevard de Sebastopol.

If this is added to almost all the lower floors are luxury establishments, illuminated profusely,
and the 76 voyages will not be difficult to represent the picture offered Evening Rivoli Street.

Even
after seeing the Champs Elysees and Place de la Concorde, the beautiful gallery of Rivoli can only
offer a remarkable spectacle, something painful, if you will, because
we are overwhelmed with the impression that it causes in our minds
all work great.

So we went to the Place de la Concorde, we saw, between the play of many individual lights, a
continuous path of fire, shot to line; proportion as the car moved, we saw escape, as fleeting appearances,
rich and spacious Castiglioni street, overlooking a flash the enormous column of Vendome, the
Place and the Royal palace facade, perfectly lit, the wide boulevard Sebastopol, with its two
rows of lamps to be together as the gaze is prolonged, until they
are lost in a mound of shimmering lights, at a distance seems to eight
or ten miles, the giant black turret, with its garden around it, as
a lily planted at the foot of a deformed rock, the City Palace and
its park, lit by large lanterns, the barracks of Napoleon, to arrive
at the Bastille Square extensive, less brighter than that of Vendome
or Victorias, but no less interesting as a historical theater.

Here the scene changes in appearance, of a circle of light and noise, we pass to a circle melancholy
meditation and poetry. There are lights that come to be reflected in our eyes: lights are also
coming to be reflected in our soul. In this sense, the Bastille is most lighting stores Rivoli.

In
the middle of the square distinguish a large column topped by a globe on which sits his feet a figure.
From time to time, a reflection of the column came out and we Heria
confusedly seeming to discover how gold letters.

That was, indeed, as we reported several passersby. Those lyrics perpetuate the names of people
who suffer captivity of the Bastille, the prison's high state of
that Inquisition of the Middle Ages, of that Religious and political
Golgotha.

My readers know that all peoples have Greve Square, the gallows and hangman the iron ring: castration
in almost all Asia primitive shell of ostracism in Greece, Mount Taygetos in Sparta, Mount Calvary
in Judea, the rock Tarpeya in Italy old, the Inquisition in modern Italy, the Bastille in Paris.

The
scourge of Mandarin Chinese has traveled extensively in the land, set foot in France, and called
Bastille in the thirteenth century and before would have known otherwise, because it is clear
that the earlier ages, all human ages were also his Bastille. But other human age wine, the Bastille
was gone, he fell under the blows of the pickaxe revolutionary and its large rose debris and
courageous column of July. The monument of the century XIII happened the XVIIIth century monument,
the Capitol was built on the bloody rock Mount Tarpeya. The figure tops the monument, is the genius
of Liberty.

There, where now stands the column as a prayer rises to heaven, the cages were iron, built
in the shape of a funnel, so the prisoner could not stay but bent. Something unique! One man was
weighed using two brass rods so that his captive could breathe right
foot, when Providence had created for him captive all this vastness
that floats between the Bastille and stars.

There were victims of the sinister policy of Louis XI, Llarancourt William, bishop Verdun, Jaime
de Armagnac, Duke of Nemours and the Count of Saint-Pol.

There was also beheaded Charles of Contant, convinced of treachery towards the French.

There was likewise condemned to death Lallytollendal Count, whose innocence was recognized when
it was too late. There, in that political Inquisition of the Middle Ages, moaned on Basompierre,
the great Condé, the famous Fouquet, his friend and secretary Palisson,
the learned Sacy, The Duke of Laurum, husband of the granddaughter
of Henry IV, Marshal de Richelieu, the infamous famous Marquis de
Sade, Cardinal Rohan, the knight of Latude Mazers, Bruno de la Condamine,
and lately, a man who made a splash in the world, the glory and scandal,
the fable and admiration of his century, a man philosopher, theologian,
statesman, geographer, scholar, mathematician, novelist, scholar,
poet, a monster talent and daring, the most talented man more varied
and indefinable that has set foot on the earth there was Voltaire.

Wrote a satire against the ruler, and locked in the Bastille. But I forgot that the Bastille
account in their records a character that it still famous Voltaire, for the traditions of that
building. This character is the man in the iron mask, called and known well, on which the story
could not find anything, while the popular poetry content to amuse
the masses, making up stories and fables.

The Man in the Iron Mask it is a mystery added to the many mysteries that was the scene that mysterious
monument.

How majestic stands before me that stone monuments, the old incarnation
yesterday caste later incarnation of politics and modern art!

That stone is represented in my fantasy as the giant banished a century, to whom reason given
another century in an hour of truth and enthusiasm.

Who was to say to Philip Augustus and Louis XI to the ruins of that
Holy Office had to serve for the construction of new bridge, the most
popular, the most liberalized in Paris!

Many hidden breasts is history!

We returned to our cab, and we met again into the Rue de Rivoli, undoing the way you came. Upon
arrival at the hotel de Ville, we got out and ran to the front sight of this important building,
located opposite the main gate.

The new site where we also kept his poetry grim, terrible, instructive and moralistic as the monument
of Philip Augustus and Louis XI, because there is no poetry useless especially when it is terrible.
The place where we was the Bastille of another age; less logical, however cruel.

On the same ground that we now have the feet, were drawn and quartered
Ravaillac, Cartouche and Damiens, his throbbing member bloodied this
step on their soil now grandchildren with indifference.

Here also rolled the heads of two women, two women fatally celebrated two poisoners: the Boisin
and Brinvilliers.

We Rivoli street, go up the Magdalena and found ourselves at the Boulevard
name, he saw little Capuchin boulevards, Italian, Montmartre, Poisonnière
and part of St. Martin.

This new view is not so symmetrical and artificial as the Rivoli, but is longer, funnier and
more lively, more effect. Here's more expansion, more fancy, more fantasy: that is, there
are more individual creation.

The Rivoli is a gallery of the State.

The
boulevards are immense galleries of the people.

Thousands and thousands
of tubes and reflectors illuminate many shops, cafes, hotels, casinos,
as many thousands and thousands of lights are reflected in the mirrors
interior which almost all public, producing a kind of magic vision;
while the lanterns of hundreds of coaches coming and going in a continuous
wave, spacious boulevards make those oscillating in an atmosphere
of light.

It will be difficult to find in the world a city that lit
Paris. There are many establishments employing hundreds of lights,
and with regard to the cafes-concerts, is not an easy task the count.
But all that is seen in the bright spotlight that appears everywhere,
that everywhere is filtered more than once saw in the distance, should
be lowered a half. Half is due with the theater of mirrors inside,
due to the magic of Paris.

Everything tends to be magical, to boot
with filthy mud beneath our feet: same boot, the same shoe, humility
applied to the dress of the foot, has been here back their courtship,
their gallantry; au soulier galant. So Paris, while being an important
city, is apparent city, lying artfully, artistically exaggerated,
over-educated.

We arrived at the hotel about ten o'clock, and my
wife and I digimos: Paris is a beautiful monster, mostly very bright,
his home would be delicious without cars, with cars, is to be a living
hell.  Is it not plain from DIOPTRICS that microscopes make the sight more penetrating, and
represent objects as they would appear to the eye in case it were naturally endowed with a
most exquisite sharpness?

HYL.  It is.

PHIL.  Consequently the microscopical representation is to be thought that which best sets
forth the real nature of the thing, or what it is in itself. The colours, therefore, by it
perceived are more genuine and real than those perceived otherwise.

HYL.  I confess there is something in what you say.

PHIL.  Besides, it is not only possible but manifest, that there actually are animals whose
eyes are by nature framed to perceive those things which by reason of their minuteness escape
our sight. What think you of those inconceivably small animals perceived by glasses? must we
suppose they are all stark blind? Or, in case they see, can it be imagined their sight hath
not the same use in preserving their bodies from injuries, which appears in that of all other
animals? And if it hath, is it not evident they must see particles less than their own bodies;
which will present them with a far different view in each object from that which strikes our
senses? Even our own eyes do not always represent objects to us after the same manner. In the
jaundice every one knows that all things seem yellow. What says
piety? says, "forgive to be forgiven ».... I know there are reasons apparent strength, but I
have studied the subject with affection and I've seen what you presented as obstacle is not
.... God wants no doubt that this work is carried out, because since I undertook, I see very clearly
the way of it. And what I see? I see that lady boredom of solitude and a lively desire to
establish order in their lives interrupted, I see that far to keep you grudge respects and loves
him. I have come to overcome some resistance that his soul had, and with little to you to help
me ....

- Father, father - said D. Carlos breathing hard, because I was struggling with the unbearable
weight of the sermon - that can not be. There are breaks that can not be welded never, never,
in heaven. I suppose you retreat to a desert, do penance, sanctify me, dying, except me and
entered the kingdom of God as blessed, even more, as a saint. Suppose you also that she regrets
her misconduct, receiving God's afflictions and fair calamities which rots in life, which is removed
to make life in the cloister, which then falls into the hands infidels, the martyr, the burn,
the swelter, who dies, who is saved, that is holy, that is pure as an angel .... Well, suppose
you think we are in the sky ....

- And embraced weep tears of forgiveness
- said the father was very moved and clasping her hands.

- No! -
Shouted Navarro, and syllable that sounded like a shot.

The Jesuit was perplexed, looking at his friend with horror. He dared not insist on its commitment
to the unchanging harshness of the rock in human form, which was externally all the unevenness
of the rock and all the bitterness inside the sea, but also him, the Jesuit, was the absence
of apparent hardness, endurance and persistent strength wave. Thought it prudent not to insist
for the moment, becalmed and without effort, he lowered his head, took a sigh and murmured in
a tone of peace these gentle words:

- Everything is for God. Talk about something else.

- Talk about something else - Navarro said cheerfully -. Tell me about something else, but 4
is of the cones.

- I had to say you do not know why - Gracian said confusing, but slapping
said forehead -: Ah!

I remember .... Apuntación I have here. A gentleman friend of mine rather, known to speak with
you.

I met him at the house of Doña Genara.

- At home! - Navarro said getting greener, and hammering nails into the arms of the chair.

-
Yes, also D Felicísimo told me about it this morning .... I do not
remember his name ... but I signed up and here it should be.

Saying this, the good Jesuit and then put his hand to the elbow arm
in infinity pocket.

- Do not bother you - Navarro said taking the
letter D. Very happy to open on watchman was, and showing it to his
friend -.

Is this your name?

- Same - Gracian said.

And at the very moment the door opened and there appeared the face, rather the eyes sheepskin
Mr. Zugarramurdi, which said no more than a single word:

- That
....

After a great time watching the ground sullenly, Carlos spoke
thus:

- That one .... You, dear father, I will do for me alone ....
Tomorrow either I can attend the meeting, but it represents the Father
Carasa.

I want to know immediately what to be determined. Will you come to tell me?

After answering yes to his affability not studied, the worthy Father
Gracian left to continue delivering their cones between the pious
ladies who could appreciate such interesting object devotee.

-IV-

While
Salvador was known to the emotion he felt at being in front of the
guerrilla, and this, I did not expect to find in the face of his mortal
enemy nothing but mistrust and disdain, was surprised and somewhat
embarrassed to look him unnerved, but did not suspect the reason for
this move.

Mandola sit and have a good time were the two facing each other,
but none were decided to speak first.

Carlos finally broke the silence by saying:

- I could not snub D. Very happy ... therefore I have received, at their peril this hard time.
You know I'm sick and the doctor says I should not bother me.

- That depends on you. I come with peace flag and decided not to bother me. You have done well to
receive me.

Some time ago I seek, and now I find you wonder if you think you do not I've chased and humiliated
enough.

- Would you rather be now? - Garrote said sarcastically -. As is and leave me alone. If I remember
you, if you disregard ....

- Poor man - said Salvador -. Your pride says so wrong with your displays of religious piety
.... I come now to test yourself and see if your soul is unforgiving,
as it seems, incapable of any feeling that is not of vengeance ....

-
Are you coming to test me?

... With a hundred thousand radishes, man, you're kind - said Navarro starting to get angry -.
And then I tell the doctor to be patient, I have no sulfur, I was not up to the mouth and eyes
of my heart gall! ... Hey you, diminished by give no other name, would come to enjoy yourself
at my misfortune, seeing sick and weak to punish an insult, or come to spy on behalf of the
Masons? If this is your intention, no need to sharpen our wits to find my actions. You can tell
these gentlemen who yes, I'm plotting radish! I do what I please, I work as a black for the
sake of the legitimate King and I and my friends got together and took from us, disregarding
stupid this government, whose police have bought. Seduce the army and bring it skillfully to our
cause, the Government is mistaken, and you bulla Masons pennant and I bought at two pesetas
apiece. Hey, you know everything you can and go with the story.

- I know that conspire - Monsalud said staying calm - and I do not
care .... Another issue brings me, a matter which is of great interest
to both, at least for me.

Tell me, have you thought ever, especially in these days of illness, isolation and sadness,
infertility of the infinite ways you used to exterminate? Do not you have come to mind considerations
about this, not you surprised yourself at certain times, meditating, without knowing how or why,
on the fact that all your acts of revenge have been futile, and God almost miraculously preserved me from
your cruelty?

While Salvador was saying this, I watched with some astonishment that
Navarro was not without stupidity and was, in fact, quite often had
thought about that problem.

However, not declare that his dark interior had been discovered, he snapped:

- Well, I never thought such a thing. What are these nonsense?

- These nonsense - growing Salvador said - are to show you that God, whom thou born of a mercy
absurd, you think your accomplice of your vicious violence and revenge, is someone who has
cheated and has protected me. How well and how much opportunity has broken your relentless combinations,
allowing came a day like this, which I will disarm forever!

Navarro followed him with stupidity.

- No matter how bad you suppose - said Salvador - do not believe you
can keep your grudges after knowing that you and I are sons of one
father.

The guerrilla jumped in her seat, as one listens to an insult.

His face flushed bubbling cast out of his mouth these words:

- It's a lie, a lie!

- Lie, eh?

"That is a lie?

I have it a sacred witness to me, written by the hand of the person most dear to me in the
world, and ratified on his deathbed.

You can believe it or not, as you fancy, let your conscience. Telling
you I do my duty.

Half of this secret up to you, although you wrong. I can not stay with him the whole thing.

Uneasily
in his seat, Navarro wavered between anger and curiosity.

- Those things - he said - can not think without something to prove it .... Let's see, what's
that? What means that package tied with red ribbon?

Salvador had taken a package and it chose the roles they wanted to show Carlos.

- This is the letter my mother wrote to me shortly before his death
- said her into the hands of Navarro -.

It is the confession of a failure redeemed by a life of sorrow and
darkness is santa statement that breathes honesty, patience and kindness.

You need to be a monster not to bend with respect to that life of
devotion and duty elapsed in the shade never repaired a shame ....

The
other read, read.

Salvador mentally watched him read and followed the concepts of the letter. Navarro finished reading
sighed and said:

- What I have thirst! ... If you wanted to take water from the jug at the glass and there is alcanzármelo
....

Monsalud gave him water, and when he saw him quench his thirst, gave
him other papers saying

- Do you know that letter?

- These are letters
from my father - he murmured Navarro, devouring with his eyes.

-
It is time now - said Salvador - to comment on the promises made in
those letters and never fulfilled.

Those old accounts be settled elsewhere.

Both were silent, and Navarro, making his soul all in the eyes, read
the few pages of that dark drama, and unbound by death.

At the conclusion of stared at the ground for very long space of time, and then, avoiding the
eyes set on his brother, he said:

- Well, I agree that this has no doubt. It seems clear that by nature .... But no, the fraternity can
not be improvised.

You are a child of my father, but you is not be my brother.

- Neither do I pretend, nor do I care about your fraternity - Salvador
replied returning Diversion -.

I do not need you at all. I just wanted you to know how close we got the Nature, the better
God said, to understand the role of Cain is bad, or even snubbed.

- An old letter can not be done in two irreconcilable enemies dear brothers .... I agree that
I can not chase you more: the memory of my dear father, the brave
knight who died for their country, intervenes and saves you ....

-
Before I save me with God's help - Salvador said scornfully -.

I have not come to ask indulgence, I do not need.

- Well, I can
give it, one hundred radishes! - Said the guerrilla sulfur -.

Look, give me water again, I have very thirsty, I know your secret
gall and vinegar.

Drank, and then, thinking a bit, he said, as if chewing the words:

-
Also, before talk of reconciliation is necessary to determine who
is the victim rather and who the offender.

You complain that I have pursued and talk about my cruelty.

Well, I say you're the monster, you criminal, you unworthy of forgiveness.

-
Remember those days of year 13, when he said the battle of Vitoria
Salvador with violence -.

Oh! you who provoked me.

- It was you!.

- You!

- I repeat to you.

The dispute soured.

Salvador tried to calm her with a gesture of conciliation. Navarro breathing as one who is
going to drown.

- Mira - said despondency - it is best you go.

- Before you hearing what I have to say.

- Then tell.

- Yes, I maintain that it was you who first brought our rivalry not
know why I made serious mistakes after that I offended you ...

-
The diminished confesses!

...

- I'm not like you, I have no pride in my crimes, or defend them, because mine against reason
and the rights of others.

- I have offended, and how! - Carlos said
it was all bitterness -.

With a hundred lives HAD you would pay no offense .... And come to tame them now with the nonsense
that we brothers, sisters by chance, on the whim!

... Worse, a thousand times worse for your conscience.

- If we were to do an analysis - Salvador said - everything that has happened between us from the
year 13, giving each a share of responsibility and guilt that corresponds, I think they'd all
be very badly. I know that there are completely irreparable faults in the world, and offenses
can not be forgiven. So bad that even at our new relationship, we
can not ever be friends.

But ....

- But what?

- But we put out as much as possible our hatreds, considering that there is a third culprit who
is responsible for a great part of this huge burden of mistakes that you and I we ....

Navarro did not let him finish the sentence she got up, reaching out as if to cover up mouth
to his brother, shouted as follows:

- Not the names, not names, because we go again .... You hit the nail on the wound of my heart,
blood still flowing and will flow as long as I live .... Woe you who the front ponérteme can
not excite me the mercy of the fraternity without exciting while
the heat of shame!

How did I get used to do with feelings loving the same person whom I have ever seen with horror?
... Leave me alone. I know I can not kill.

This is enough for you and me. Go away.

He was so hoarse that his last words were understood only .... After talking something Snoring and
slaps more, could be heard again.

- Wait .... The ulcer of my life, I have poisoned the body and has transformed my character making
dismissive and wild, has been my shame. This dagger, mighty God, when unpinning of my body!
... This poster horrible that I have on my forehead, when fall! ... I am a diminished because I have
not heard punish. I cut the branches and have allowed to grow the trunk! But the trunk will
fall: this is my desire, that's my insanity .... You know that the infamous - added speaking
very quickly in a low voice - far from being corrected, it progresses horribly scandal .... I
have been told that you also despise .... Well, let us unite to punish
.... He deserves death .... Castiguémosla and then ... then we will
be brothers.

- I see - horror Salvador said - you're so sick of soul
and body.

I do not propose such monstrosities. You're too embedded in the habits and ideas of guerrilla
to think reasonably.

The furor came the depression in the irritable person of Charles, and for a long time did not
signs of life. Salvador said:

- Give up any idea of ​​violence and murder.

Thinking about a possible punishment, I poisons the soul. Renunciation of the turmoil of politics
and no conspiracy, do not be a tool ambitions of princes.

Retire to our people, seeking peace in the repair you need and curative
medicine oblivion.

- Withdraw the people !...-- said Charles raising
his eyes to look in front of his brother -.

Why? "To feel again the horrible emptiness in my soul and I live alone? Agitation of these
civil wars and the desire to do something for a cause, making me
distracted me life bearable, but the loneliness of people Abbe and
saddens me so that if I could mourn, weep over the walls of my empty
house.

If only there you will find family any relatives, friends, former servants ... but no, no. My house
looks like a cemetery, and Puebla streets repeat my steps as echoes of the cemetery. The memories
are there, my only company, and memories kill me.

- The same thing happens to me - said Salvador -. With no family, alone, deprived of all love,
it seems I am condemned for my sins, to live on the ice. I also recently visited our town
and my wings have fallen from the heart to me a stranger in my hometown.

- I night chasing shadows do not know what came out of that black hamlet. All village dogs barked
at me a thousand radishes! with horrific fury.

- Also me. I found some people recognized me, but I looked with great suspicion, as if to remove
something.

- I was the same.

Then I knew how sad it is not having anyone in the world who rely
a penalty of heart, a joy, a hope.

- Me too.

And then I felt old, very old.

- Same as me.

And I said, 'if I had with me to any being, even a child would not go to the fields in search of
adventure, or reigned so much because I afanaría John or Peter. "

- As I've thought .... If something comforting in that dreary solitude was remembering things
childhood. And I saw as clear as it passed through the places we used to play, the proposed site
of the school, the churchyard and the bridge, and Uncle Roque the blacksmith ...!

- Well, I spent hours playing dead in my memory those days .... Many
Sometimes I remembered the poor Doña Fermina your mother!

It was so good! ... Do not be put to do half sitting next to a door that is on the right as
we entered the courtyard?

- Yes, yes.

- And I think I see the Father Respaldiza, telling jokes, and that Mrs. Perpetua lived over a hundred
years. I remember your mother entertained me much when I play with you and other little boys,
I got into the yard of your home. I hugged her, kissed me and put me on her knees, but I broke
loose from his arms to run and get into a lot of beams .... "There was a lot of beams in the
yard?

- Yes, yes.

- Did not your mother had many chickens?

- Yes.

- One day we argue for a chicken and gave us slaps you and me. Another day we took blood force
us to blows and were like two homos Ecce .... After ....

Navarro gave a big sigh, saying then:

- It seemed we were destined
to a terrible rivalry for life .... One day, when were already large
right, we returned to compose an iron ring at Uncle Roque, and found
to Genara coming out of school ....

This concluded the memories.

Like a light going off in the wind, closed Navarro mouth, lips tightly clenched as if to make
two single lip, pursed eyebrows making them like a knot in charge of containing and tighten all
skin front, and finally dumped her hand so hard on the armrest, that
nearly this good jump on chips invalid.

- It seems impossible - said
afterward - that sufficient number of years to become angels demons,
beasts and men .... You, hear ...-- said haughtily - never mind of
my talk ... I say this in case it has escaped me a phrase that indicates
available to forgive, blandurillas of heart or other such thing, unworthy
of my whole character and my honor.

She will always be for me to torment and evil temptation of my life,
and you ... a man whom I can not see or never see without very violent
antipathy.

Your appreciation of my rare frankly, you can not see me otherwise
.... Do you want to say it any clearer? Same thing burns my blood
now than before. I mistrust your word, mistrust your actions, I am
suspicious of our relationship, which may well be props invented for
you, mistrust of your regret, and how must tell you the harder to
win my will to win the sky, be well to leave me alone and do not come
here with no embassies hermanazgos sentimental because again I do
not have the blessed I have patience now: you know me, you know my
cool. This disease has taken me demon chains and shackles, but I will
heal with thousand radishes, heal, and I swear that no one will make
me suffer. Have you heard right? none shall hold me .... I spend jokes
pass atrocities in the world .... Do not look for me, then, and I
promise that I'll look. It's all I can do.

Thereupon she pointed
to the door. It was almost dark, and the dark room sacristanesca each
of the characters he watched his partner as his own shadow. Rose Salvador
from his seat and leave of the guerrilla with this laconic phrase:

-
Bye. Do not look for her. If ever you come to my door, depending on
how you answer her call.

-V-

Left, and when he went looking for
the door down the hall, that very dark as the cave Montesinos was,
he tripped over a bump, which, by the piercing scream that followed
the crash, women and women proved to be very sensitive.

- Brutísimo
wild .... Do not you have eyes in your head? - Cried a voice -. What
methods are these?

- Lady - Salvador said his hat, but seeing no
drop - you excuse me.  That is not all; I would say they have a real existence without the mind, in some unthinking
substance.

PHIL.  That the colours are really in the tulip which I see is manifest. Neither can it be
denied that this tulip may exist independent of your mind or mine; but, that any immediate
object of the senses,--that is, any idea, or combination of ideas--should exist in an unthinking
substance, or exterior to ALL minds, is in itself an evident contradiction. Nor can I imagine
how this follows from what you said just now, to wit, that the red and yellow were on the tulip
you SAW, since you do not pretend to SEE that unthinking substance.

HYL.  You have an artful way, Philonous, of diverting our inquiry from the subject.

PHIL.  I see you have no mind to be pressed that way. To return then to your distinction between
SENSATION and OBJECT; if I take you right, you distinguish in every perception two things,
the one an action of the mind, the other not.

HYL.  True.

PHIL.  And this action cannot exist in, or belong to, any unthinking thing; but, whatever beside
is implied in a perception may?

HYL.  That is my meaning.

PHIL.  So that if there was a perception without any act of the mind, it were possible such
a perception should exist in an unthinking substance?

HYL.  I grant it. But it is impossible there should be such a perception.

PHIL.  When is the mind said to be active?

HYL.  When it produces, puts an end to, or changes, anything.

PHIL.  Can the mind produce, discontinue, or change anything, but by an act of the will? It enshrines the same
Tío Creeds were informed that a house at Bethlehem had been caught a board Carlist prisoners
and all those who were. If the political interest of the gatherings corderiles was in the news,
its refreshing depended on the grace and daring of Johnny James with its language said more than
half if I had all full, and you recite fables or romances, already been dispatched to taste with frasecillas
and observations of his own, was die laughing the whole family, except when he was by getting
angry, pouting and throwing at the head his brother's shoe, book, candle, ink or other deadly projectile.

The
store had been pierced by Lamb to another dealer, friend and relative,
and This trade was completely removed.

Its capital, if not great, solid as more so, assured him sound modest incomes. Had vast expansion
and improvement projects in Cigarrales, and did not expect it to clarify the time to move there
with all family.

In May boy was so improved that he thought his leg was now time to
end his hesitations.

It was a beautiful afternoon. They had concluded to eat in peace and grace. D. Benigno, leaving
Alelí fell asleep on the couch in the dining room and do what Crucita himself in his room, sent
the boys to school, and his fourth Sola, brought with it a conversation in which we must not
lose the point or comma.

- Dear Alone - he said - I have to give you explanations about an event that will surprise and
maybe (and this is what I most regret) will hurt his pride in you.

Sola expressed very great surprise.

- The fact is that, having resolved since I was in the House all the difficulties opposed to
our marriage, I have postponed several times since that time an event so flattering to me. As
you might suspect that these delays meant something reluctantly, coldness or little desire to be her
husband, and as nothing could be further from the true that the suspicion
of you, I have to explain to daughter, I have to reveal certain thoughts
intimate and certain little things .... You know what I mean?

With his verbosity indicated the hero be so full of his subject, as
they say speakers and probably the night before had prepared on his
head and even built some of the phrases in that memorable speech.

-
Well, the cause of this in a hurry ... darémosle this name, which
is the one you block ... has been some doubt that I was assaulted,
some fear that our marriage did you make it miserable rather than
happy, as I wish.

- Unfortunately - Sola said, getting that idea
as an insult.

- Oh! no hurry ... take much to say.

These scruples and fears do not concern anything that might undermine the extraordinary merits of
which I chose for a wife; are pure thing and mine alone. It is time to speak with complete
frankness, and not conceal any idea however painful it is for me.

Well, there is a person, a man, daughter mine, that you appreciate
how much it's worth, who knows you from childhood, which has been
protected, he loves, he loves, a man that maybe, why not? you are
loved .... Ah!

Sola dear, my dear, I seem to have put his finger on an old wound that heart no par, made to
endure and suffer as any .... In his face you see ....

She had been pale as if he had to face a mask of wax, and looked at his apron, whose tip was between
the toes.

- This pale - said D. Benigno moved - does not in any way that you have to repent anything, it is
not about fault, indicates that I have aroused a feeling that slept,
Is not it?

Sola's pallor vanished like a veil is torn revealing the clarity that conceals and so, by how similar
the sharp pull back a curtain, as was kindled in her a vivid blush. Leaning to mourn, whispered
these words:

- It's true, yes sir. You are kinder than the angels.

Botero The medium was silent for a while contemplating.

- But I have not failed, I have not lied ...-- stammered Mrs. Monda between Sola and sigh and sigh -.
What you say, was killed and buried in my heart for ever DNR.

- I know, I know - no less upset Lamb said that her friend -. Oh! that voice, that voice soft
and a little sad that he spoke here in my conscience was telling me how nice! Well hear you
all. At this time that has passed since I came to the farm, you can say no I lived but to think
about this and make comparisons. Yes, I have lived comparing me, dear daughter, lived tormented
by a comparative analysis of the qualities that I have and which meets the man whom you know better
than me, being that he is extraordinarily than me.

- Oh! no, a hundred
times no - Sola said forcefully -.

Quite the contrary.

- Non-violent nature, my daughter nonviolent nor logic. Granted that honesty and moral qualities
not outdo me, although there is no reason not to admit that I equals, but instead, how big his
superiority on the outside and attractions of the person! ... Claritas things .... Eh? ... Why
not be said that he is a man captivating, a man who awakens sympathy
in all that he is, while I ...?

- You too, you too - Sola said promptly.

D. Benigno shook his head in sad gesture.

- Non-violent nature, darling, nonviolent logic - repeated -. I concede that no I totally dislike
it, but you, that feels and runs very well, you can tell if there nothing in the person and the
soul of an old man can compete with the youth, his face joyful and expressive of a healthy man
in the prime of his affections, his strength, his whole life.

- Depending on how you look, depending on how you look - Sola said
taken out of compassion for his friend and eager to give all the advantages.

-
Oh! - Said D. Benigno smiling - even though you strive to give me
flowers, do not get I enfatúe me or I obceque to the point of not
seeing clearly what I am.

Old age has its pre-eminence, has its beauties, but these eminences and these beauties are not of great
value if we try. I know well, or I do not I take even a ounce of what really weight placed on
the balance of marriage, I do not think I lack some qualities that would make me appreciate and
respect and even love of a young woman, but the Compared to other shows me my age, who are
not considered for the case loose, I revealed my ailments, which have started right now as a
warning, a warning that God me through nature. In short, my dear, if you try any strange any
upstart that this time is present, or by thought I would you may prefer to me, but alas! this
is an old friendship, affection old and old it on you .... You have shown me, telling me with
the accent noble and fair, "is true, is true."

- True - Sola said - and now, it is not in my heart or even a fund of the secrets that have
kept it for so very long, I will confess to you .... In front of a priest before God Himself
would not be sincere, you believe me .... If not previously mentioned
this was because I wanted to see it as something dead and buried.

Thought that the more you shut up and think least, the greater the forgetting, and I dared
not confess, for fear that the confession was reborn and torment me again.

He was sitting on a low chair, his arms touched the venerable hero's knees. Who would not see
it up close, believe he was on his knees.

- Much of what you have so eagerly silent, for their commitment to hush and more land on a
feeling miserable - Lamb said - he showed me.

- There will be told you that I picked up my father's death, putting
the defense of his mother, and looking at me as a sister.

If boasted of its benefits did well, because these were great at that time.

- Do not brag.

Go ahead.

- I would also say that I watched as a sister and served as a slave.

His will I found something that could not be doubted, his words as
gospel.

- Does he?

...

- Go easy on me, but ....

- Did not love you more than the brother?

- No more, but that affection comforted me in my sadness.

- I have
thought that was pretty skull and had an affair with some .... But
did you ever ...?

- Never - Sola said naively - I wanted other women,
but I do not want.

D. Benigno smiled.

- But you - he said - he wanted to since then?

...

- I am ashamed to say - said Sola - snubbed by the role I played, but making a confession, I do
not hide anything.

I wanted to, yes, very much.

- How?

- Everything you love a person
- she said, bowing his head, which weighed, no doubt, by an extraordinary
agglomeration of memories.

Cordero felt a lump in his throat.

Swallowing needed something to remove that obstacle and power say

-
And always the same?

- I always wanted the same thing and thought
only of him, all the time, asleep and awake.

- And when I was away?

-
I wanted more.

- And when he returned?

- More.

It was something greater than myself, a kind of sickness or misfortune that God sent me.

- Did not you tried to get rid of this torment, thinking of another?

- In another man! - Sola said as horrified -.

That does not, that was impossible .... What I felt that torment me I needed to live, like
air and light.

- You never showed her actions and words the very large crowd that
had?

- Oh! no .... Sometimes I was crazy projects and I figured I
do not know what means make him understand, but then I was very embarrassed.

-
What horrific torment!

What agony!

- Almost always, yes, but sometimes I was happy.

- How, child?

-
Thinking nonsense ... and giving me a reason that suddenly seemed
to him as loving I loved him.

- Oh! barástolis - said D. Benigno,
clenching his fist threateningly - for life .... I angry with that
man, and well deserved .... you despise If you come to me then and
tell me what's wrong, as he tells me now, I swear to you that right
this man and lame, and I say, 'Look here, sir ...».

One could not help but laugh a little, and said:

- I did not hurt you more than to be my worst enemy.

Yes ... I took it with little tenacity .... I realize now that was very extreme and I myself
heating up the imagination night and day, or when adding fuel to a fire that is afraid to see off. Since
there was no whom I could tell such things, I would count myself. I consoled me saying nonsense
and resigned, as the many misfortunes that I had since childhood and always me Private everything
else I wanted, I got used to a lot of patience, a lot. It's a comfort a little sad that the patient,
but using it much, for loving one concludes and become familiar with it .... I was ... to my
happiness, yes sir, joy in my way, because what would be relieved if our media had not ever take itself
that the outsiders do not want to give! ... In short, sir, time went on, passing his absence, I
hopeless. I think that the days were like veils to be running slowly, one on another, and these
veils fell upon my memory, and gradually died down and obscuring what was in it. After some
time I began to see ... and the mist away; and occupations, all I thought was discontinued
to make room for other things. Sometimes lost abruptly lost ground, I mean, that because of
some dream, some conversation that reminded me of things past, or anything, my simplicity, again
to feel atormentadísima, and it seemed to have him front and hear you, always so loving, always
so good, but always brother! ... In short, those relapses ... because they were such as relapse
a disease ... went well. I felt I was falling on that land, and if I have to tell the truth, I
threw one handful, sometimes praying, sometimes working too .... Ay! I was triumphant at last, and
if I could avail myself of an odd expression ....

- So, tell you that odd expression, darling gravedigger.

- Well I will say that lately I walked on the huge mound that I had
missed penalties on those buried .... Sometimes it was not safe, because
I felt that was moving under my feet the earth ... but I should be
brave enough, was hit with feet and everything was so quiet .... Do
you see what nonsense?

...

- Follow you - Lamb said, his voice quivering -. Parallel I wonder.

- As in these and other things, I came to know a person who told me
much interest, much consideration .... I did not know how to pay,
and said: "It is unfortunate for me not to have something valuable
to offer this generous man.

" How far was then assume that my generous man, my second father had wanted to take its benefits
in a way that made me more to gratitude! I worked at home, would have liked multiply the obligations
to enslave more. I understood .... God and my misfortunes have given me some insight ... I
realized that my friend had found this poor some merit, and was not happy with me to be his maidservant,
nor his pupil, nor his daughter wanted to take his generosity to such an extent .... Gratitude
filled my heart, what joy causes me to thank and to pay, even with little! ... I then accepted
the favors of my protector, and I thought I should do everything possible deserve the immense
good that the man wanted me. Ay! how he fought then tear what still remained of the past ....
There was still something, deny it would be a lie. My good protector took possession of my soul in a sweet
and slow. I got to get used to your company so that if I was missing, faltaríame main thing
in life. The idea of ​​being his wife stuck on me, took root, and then I promised him without
scruple and with clear conscience. My heart was conquered by me, could be offered to anyone who
deserved better. What best owner could wish that this man can not be beaten, for whom I felt
gratitude well a love so great, so great I do not know how to express it?

D. Benigno did the impossible to prevent the tears out of their eyes and he looked the bed, while
meeting with his whole soul to which Sola said, and stretched muscles of his face, and finally
to tears wanting to put docks make sympathetic laughter. Finally, emotion overcame her dignity
and her hand to her eyes.

- I acknowledge with pleasure, with great gusto - said talking to embarrassment, but no tears
- that you accept my offerings has made loyalty ... yes, my lady, I admit ... I am grateful ...
I'm not worth anything ... acknowledge that you, answer yes to my
prayers, threw the last handful of earth on a sad past, offered me
their love and I devoted his whole person, their future ... I would
appreciate ... but, but ... then changed things are suddenly introduced
to you one on whom had fallen so dearly earth ....

- No - Sola said
strongly, rising -.

Nothing can change my resolution. When appeared, I no longer belonged to me. I feel so bound by my
word before and after that visit, and should not, nor do I want ... and I repeat, go back.

- It is possible that the presence of this man what would you indifferent.

- Indifferent not, but who has fought so hard and so has expired, could not in any way compromise
victory.

I'm the same now as when I first went to Cigarrales to pass best days of my life .... No doubt
about it you will be my offense. I whole body and soul of this orphan looked lonely and abandoned
and had the incomparable generosity of wanting to make his wife.

Sola firm attitude, energy and loyalty in his face was painted like adequate expression of his own beautiful
soul had overcome the good Cordero of admiration, gratitude, enthusiasm and love.

- One word - he said - one question I want to do. What you say is for me as a statement down
from heaven and will believe as you believe in God .... A little
word nothing more.

We are two, two men, one young and full of life and health, excellent presence, Clear, rich,
honest, with many items that will enhance the imagination of both learned to love a child,
the other old, sick, heavy ....

- Heavy no - cried single protest in the heat.

- Well, let's take it from heavy ... sick, ugly ....

- In men there is no ugliness.

- Sick - Lamb continued counting on his fingers - homely, short-sighted,
honest yes, like the first, a good heart .... Finally, I object.

They both want to marry such a Sola, and this seems to comedy. A word to the lady is going to
decide the issue, Which of the two I want a husband?

Oh! who have brush to paint this ray of truth shone supreme in the
eyes Sola, the gesture of heroin with which his hand on his chest
and eyes raised to heaven, beautiful for the truth, so sublime self-sacrifice
was at the bottom of that truth, and who could express his accent
when he spoke these words:

- As God is my heavenly father, so I really
want to marry the man!

D. Benigno had not embraced ever. That day the first embraced, and that embrace was worth a thousand.

-X-

The
father had Alelí, historian forgetful and senile, that night was
D. Benign for six hours straight without leaving your seat, staring
at the tips of foot, and fist on the cheek, and this was added, the
duration of his ecstasy, musing or drowsiness, that attitude that
leaving joints had marked in red cheeks of his face, and elbow had
left a very deep hole in the bearing arm of the chair.

But our good criterion allows us to blindly support this version,
and thus reduce three to six hours of talks Alelí, which, as Herodotus
was much inclined to exaggerate and proportions to what he saw.

It would be better still, reduce to one hour only within perplexity that our dear Lord, and
we will.

Record, then, that long-pondered while, and then appeared as self-absorbed
and full of confusion.

Is not had dissipated misgivings? Certainly not. In his spirit can only say that once looked very
happy as very sad.

Early next day, after a dream or deep or long, rose, and dispatching hurried breakfast, and
went straight out looking for a guy who lived on the street Duke of Alba, along with D. Very
happy. He was unlucky day for Botero, because the individual who had sought out earlier than
usual, leaving that to servants who did not wait in all day.

- Barástolis Barástolis and more! I could have waited a bit.

- If you arrive five minutes before - said the man - he was just down the stairs.

- Five minutes .... And how he had arrived five minutes before the man of God? Do not you see I'm lame?
... Do not you see?

- Do not bother you, sir.

- Malaventurados the lame - the hero said to himself sadly - because
they always came late!

Mr. D. who Benigno looked so hard was not far from home.

If Lamb instead of going back to the Merced and Calle Carretas with
the intention of finding him, had San Millán and continued to Street
Studios, would have found insurance.

Was compared a door of that street, staring at a man in a large pot, a coffee table brass covered
in a huge pot of dough and on a hook.

In the cauldron that was huge, bellied black and a medium yellow sea boiled with bubbles that
appeared drops of amber dancing on a gold surface.
 Or, if you say it resembles some one only
of our ideas, how shall we be able to distinguish the true copy from all the false ones?

HYL.  I profess, Philonous, I am at a loss. I know not what to say to this.

PHIL.  But neither is this all. Which are material objects in themselves--perceptible or imperceptible?

HYL.  Properly and immediately nothing can be perceived but ideas. All material things, therefore,
are in themselves insensible, and to be perceived only by our ideas.

PHIL.  Ideas then are sensible, and their archetypes or originals insensible?

HYL.  Right.

PHIL.  But how can that which is sensible be like that which is insensible? Can a real thing,
in itself INVISIBLE, be like a COLOUR; or a real thing, which is not AUDIBLE, be like a SOUND?
In a word, can anything be like a sensation or idea, but another sensation or idea?

HYL.  I must own, I think not.

PHIL.  Is it possible there should be any doubt on the point? Do you not perfectly know your
own ideas?

HYL.  I know them perfectly; since what I do not perceive or know can be no part of my idea.

PHIL.  Consider, therefore, and examine them, and then tell me if there be anything in them
which can exist without the mind: or if you can conceive anything like them existing without
the mind.

HYL.  Upon inquiry, I find it is impossible for me to conceive or understand how anything but
an idea can be like an idea. And it is most evident that NO IDEA CAN EXIST WITHOUT THE MIND.

PHIL.  You are therefore, by your principles, forced to deny the REALITY of sensible things;
since you made it to consist in an absolute existence exterior to the mind. That is to say,
you are a downright sceptic. So I have gained my point, which was to shew your principles led
to Scepticism.

HYL.  For the present I am, if not entirely convinced, at least silenced.

PHIL.  I would fain know what more you would require in order to a perfect conviction. Have
you not had the liberty of explaining yourself all manner of ways? Were any little slips in
discourse laid hold and insisted on? Or were you not allowed to retract or reinforce anything
you had offered, as best served your purpose? Hath not everything you could say been heard
and examined with all the fairness imaginable? In a word have you not in every point been convinced
out of your own mouth? And, if you can at present discover any flaw in any of your former concessions,
or think of any remaining subterfuge, any new distinction, colour, or comment whatsoever, why
do you not produce it? Everything I have thought, but you must not know
and not see it.

- How?

Where?

- Come home with me.

There are only a few minutes to get the appointment time.

With give me the value your presence.

- That's another thing - said Dona Ines.

Doña Inés thought, no doubt, in time to taste that would have contributed
to flick Don Alvaro, which would come very proud of the appointment
and she would be in his austere consort.

Indeed, if the launch went well, but tragedy would be farce.

Doña Inés lost her fear and felt the irresistible temptation to see
the farce and even make in him one of the leading roles.

- Okay,
Juanita - said -.

Go to your company and I'll lend you my assistance.

Fine test I'll give you my friendship with this, because I can also get involved.

- Understand each other - said Juanita -. I do not want your help. What merit would then my victory?
You do not undertake, because you will be hidden and nobody will
know you've been in my house.

Nor will expose you to any accident, because you will see the bulls from the scaffold.

- Yes ... but ... explain yourself, do not make me go blind ..., explain
yourself ....

- It will happen when.

Urge to go home. No time to give explanations, nor you the need. Ea, despáchate. Take a shawl, throw
it better to face so you do not see it.

The People walk entranced by the procession, which probably ends
at this moment, and will not repair or you or me.

And speaking of this sort, the same Juanita looked for a shawl, put it on the head Dona Ines
and, taking it ahead of himself, pushed her and made her walk.

Dona
Ines dominated by that imperious creature, she got carried away.

Both
came home in Juanita. This, for Rafaela not see who entered his house
accompanied someone else opened the door with the key in his pocket.

The
two women, quiet and toes, climbed to the upper room.

Missing and
a few minutes to eight.

The bedroom where he slept Juanita had no
light except that entering through a round window, open on the bedroom
door that led out into the room. In this, and not in the bedroom where
there was room enough, washed, combed and dressed every morning Juanita.
  It is supposed the soul makes her residence in some part of the brain, from which the
nerves take their rise, and are thence extended to all parts of the body; and that outward
objects, by the different impressions they make on the organs of sense, communicate certain
vibrative motions to the nerves; and these being filled with spirits propagate them to the
brain or seat of the soul, which, according to the various impressions or traces thereby made
in the brain, is variously affected with ideas.

PHIL.  And call you this an explication of the manner whereby we are affected with ideas?

HYL.  Why not, Philonous? Have you anything to object against it?

PHIL.  I would first know whether I rightly understand your hypothesis. You make certain traces
in the brain to be the causes or occasions of our ideas. Pray tell me whether by the BRAIN
you mean any sensible thing.

HYL.  What else think you I could mean?

PHIL.  Sensible things are all immediately perceivable; and those things which are immediately
perceivable are ideas; and these exist only in the mind. Thus much you have, if I mistake not,
long since agreed to.

HYL.  I do not deny it.

PHIL.  The brain therefore you speak of, being a sensible thing, exists only in the mind. Now,
I would fain know whether you think it reasonable to suppose that one idea or thing existing
in the mind occasions all other ideas. And, if you think so, pray how do you account for the
origin of that primary idea or brain itself?

HYL.  I do not explain the origin of our ideas by that brain which is perceivable to sense--this
being itself only a combination of sensible ideas--but by another which I imagine.

PHIL.  But are not things imagined as truly IN THE MIND as things perceived?

HYL.  I must confess they are.

PHIL. Neither were necessary
words.

- If you see me mourn - said D. Benigno, wiping a tear with a heroic gesture - do not think I
am poor and distressed. In my chest do not fit or lad nor envy of mourning frustrated desires.
I am calm and happy, happy. If I cry is attracting your tears are running mine without knowing
why. I was a bit different from punishment, yes, but I am comforted to know that if my children
have lost their second mother, good sister are born, Is not it?

Was beginning to fall afternoon and felt the cool of the Tagus.

D. Benigno proposed to withdraw home, and leaving the pearl hard,
took the rough and winding road.

- As the nights grow - Sola said,
giving his arm to his father.

- Yes, my daughter - said this - and
the morning takes a little longer, but comes, do not worry.

- I do
not remember how long it takes from here to Madrid.

- Well, not much.

Peralvillo take the car, which is far sooner.

Do not know the novelty in the world? Well now you have invented in England about treadmills,
evil car that goes like the wind, walk, walk .... I do not know what goes, but if there one from
Toledo to Madrid, we would go in two hours.

- In two hours! That's fable.

- Fable?

D. told me Salvador, who has seen it.

- He has seen this machine?

-
And it has gone.

- He has walked on it?

It will be wonderful thing.

- Imagine ....

D. Benigno stopped, and the complacency that produced in him the wonders
of the emerging century industry was prepared to give her daughter
demonstrative explanations, to which put horizontal stick and ran
his fingers over it.

- Imagine there on the floor two bars of iron
which are in accordance with enormous wheels Car ... as well as houses.

These cars are tied together. A little to push them as wheels meet the iron bars, wham! that runs
like lightning.

- I understand ... mules ....

- If no mules, silly .... And will explain D. Salvador, which has mounted on such vehicles. That
mischief have put the English among a people who call Liverpool and
another named Manchester.

D. says Salvador that this is flight.

- Fly! Pride !...-- thing Sola said enthusiastically -. Saying "I want to go to that part now same
"and ...

- And out one with it.

Well, I say, there are no horses.

Anyone string of cars is moved by a devilish device or mechanism, which is in heat and steam,
and blowing blows, he walks. I do not know how this is.

D. explained it to me Salvador, but I have not been understand.

-
And the way to go here and there will not elsewhere?

- Yes, says
our friend who is spreading, which in England are doing more of these
blessed railroads, and in France, will start putting well.

- And
in Spain?, Do not do them?

Lamb sighed.

- Now going to start a war, if God does not intervene - he said sadly.

- Upon completion ....

- Maybe start over .... But, after all, we also have here these paths,
although only to sample.

D. Salvador says he will spread throughout the land, and that even wildest regions that machine
will run to blows.

- And see here, this caminejo?

- Why not?

- And we say: "In Madrid ...».

- Yes, but that miracle will not happen tomorrow, dear child - Lamb
said smiling -.

For now content ourselves with three mules to Peralvillo.

They entered the house, where they found D. Primitive Lamb, nephew of D. Benigno, who came to
spend a few days in Cigarrales, and brought great news of the Court, including death del Rey. Dined
all a little saddened by the melancholy influence of such news, gloomy comments that accompanied
them former militia captain, and the ominous portents he did.

When D. Benigno stated his intention of going to Madrid the coming day, he announced Primitivo
with informal pessimism probably find the troops insurrection in the streets, the lawlessness,
and the entire village, the Court and the monarchy, given all the demons.

At dawn the next day Sola rose, and opening wide the window from his room overlooking the field, and
whose sill climbed the highest branches of the almond balmy air breathed in the morning and
looked at the trails, the ground, the tower of the cathedral distinguished, in the distance
and amid the dark green of the landscape looked like a cypress stone left to run after their
eyes on the floor below to the horizon, yellowish term stony hills and blue, was with her spirit
beyond the horizon itself, which returned to sadness. One might have thought that I missed
those iron bars that D. Benign spoke the previous evening and that, if any, men would imitate
the wonderful travel of the birds. Nothing was in the crooked paths that indicate that the fairies
had held last night in those pathways tend metal, miracle of locomotion, incredible own path
to be traveled on the wings of spirit, with the feet of the subject.

Arose shortly after Lamb. Peralvillo's car could not take, and had to be underpinned chocolate and
pastries for the long and troublesome journey.

Gave one point to the meditations addressing the various necessities of the hour, and when D. Benigno
and she found alone, the hero could not help but ask him what was in their eyes traces of tears,
being more favorable circumstances than adverse.

Sola said that he could not sleep all night because the terrible things that had Primitivo and omens
was filled with dread mysterious spirit. It was true that he said, but had also greatly influenced
his insomnia abrupt and painful the radical change in their destiny, their ideas all the conversation
that she and her protector were worthy to the river bank. Sola Cordero did not want to hide
everything I felt and thought.

- I'm so numb since yesterday afternoon - he said - I do not know how I feel. I spent night
imagining or dreaming disaster trips and falls.

I can not convince them that God take me that way now so different from what went before,
without having to go right to a very great misfortune. I was born with ill fortune.

- Tales, my dear, things of the imagination - said D. Benigno, draining
your chocolate -.

We deliver a vacuous musings and have confidence in God. That good and bad stars is not very
Christian to say.

- Is true, but I can not avoid suspecting danger, being afraid of
everything, and this misfortunes.

It is a specialty of mine.

If I had not counted Primitivo many horrors .... Now with the death of King, it will ignite
a war such that Spain will be a nation of orphans and widows. Yes, that is .... Flow rivers
of blood, rivers such as water, and brothers kill brothers .... everything has to rule whether
the uncle or niece uncle niece. What dreadful nonsense! And these things happen in meetings with
people countries and nations are called! ... And this is the vaunted wisdom of men in Europe
they laugh at the wild!

I, ignorant woman, I say that these scholars do not have common sense.

- Daughter of my soul - said D. Benigno - are you talking as the patriarch
of philosophy as Jean Jacques Rousseau.

Yes, the current state of nations and common sense are incompatible.

In their enthusiasm, Lamb tremolo napkin that had just detached buttonhole
of his coat.

That canvas was the banner of common sense, the flag without color and heraldry.

- I could not remove from me all night - Sola said - an idea that
makes me shudder penalty.

Who assures us that the man whom we seek, and will not be compromised in the civil war? Is it not
likely to be firing shots in the streets?

Can not happen that is already dead?

- Shut up, stupid .... A man so wise .... Do not you realize you ...?

-
I do not understand anything, I feel and nothing else.

The heart usually has some guesses as weird .... Sometimes very mischievous, insists on one
thing, and God takes care after giving like .... I hope I'm wrong. And now God commands us not just
the scourge of civil war We also sent another, this terrible disease .... Do not you hear
about this Primitivo? It's a bad weird, for which people die within hours, sometimes in minutes,
is a Amazing invisible stab and kill, and no one is sure to live within half an hour.

- Yes - said D. Benigno, falling in sombre sadness - is the Asiatic cholera.

On hearing this name repulsive and scary, Sola running through his body felt cold complacent. Lamb
felt the same.

- The disease - he said - has appeared in Spain. People are very quiet for the street, and suddenly
wham! fall to the ground and die. But this infection does not come Madrid .... Come on, there's
the car.

They heard the glad bells Peralvillo mules. Sola said goodbye to the children crying, and promised
to return soon. When boarding the car, said:

- Slow?

- We fly - said the Hero -. Peralvillo, lead us to hurry .... Oh! Too bad we do not have Now
for those lanes of Satan here!

And he was right. Great pity that at this critical time there were no rails Satan!

-XVII-

On the morning of 29 and when no one suspected that the King's death was so close, let Pipaón
being single. The cute couple were blessed with the beautiful church wedding San Cayetano,
on the corner of Bear Street and in charge of giving it was Father Carantoña, of the Dominican
order, big buddy of the bridegroom. Attended by people of quality, There was much pomp and worldly church,
were distributed alms, and everything was ready for in the neighborhoods of the South remain
dilated memory of the event by time. The sleaze D. Felicísimo not allowed lunch heading is given,
as seemed natural in the bride's house and struck him in his very bearing Pipaón and magnificence. But
most the day was notable altercation with our courteous D. Very happy.

The newlyweds, believing that if the old man gave no lunch, not deny them his blessing, were beyond
very joyful, but the devil, who never rests, had made some news Butcher
that morning of traicioncillas of Pipaón and blows that had been infamous
the antechamber of Her Majesty the Queen Cristina.

There was the good lord chirping when they arrived spouses, and I wish they had not gone before,
because just as a volcano erupts, burst D. anger Very happy, not in your mouth was bad sounding
word or epithet burner. White stood the blessed agent, such as limestone, and her face causing
terror level because seemed ready to break into pieces, dropping each fraction by his side.
In vain did Pipaón apologize in vain tried to apologize Micaelita
also love that led day I had, and to Doña María del Sagrario timidly
threw a word of peace in the fiery invective.

Were increasing the anger of the stubborn old man replies, and to conclude grandchildren threw into
the street, ordering them never to set foot in that house loyalty, and warned to disinherit the best
way he could. Husbands left heads down, and when they said goodbye to Mrs. Sagrario in the door,
grabbed the old man sentenced with steely claw arm tables, which side was, and with ardent desire
said:

- Tables, four dollars, four dollars for you if you go now and give it a kick that rascal and
throw him rolling down the stairs. Do not hurt my granddaughter, right? My granddaughter does not.

The
athlete did not play the role of cachetero unworthy at that nasty race household is designated,
and all was in that state. After scolded D. Very happy with Mrs. María del Sagrario, with
the maid, with Tables, and called them they could go to the street and leave him alone, but to
live among spies or traitors, he preferred to be alone with the fair and disinterested cat.
The good man vented his anger by blowing, blowing strong and repeated and that furious trumpet echoed
through the house like the horns of Military Appeals. There was indeed fragile illusion that walls
of the house shaking and the walls of Jericho, because during the coming and going of people
at the time of berrinchín, the floor was shaking and so shake so threatening that the expelled
gladly took the door.

In the afternoon, they were not yet placated the angry spirits of the church staff, Monsalud
Salvador came to see him. D. I was very happy with despondency.

- I've sent come to you - said taking the foot of a goat and giving him strong thump on the table
- to communicate unpleasant news about our friend Mr. D. Carlos Navarro.

You, hee, hee, he took much interest when that mischief of confinement in jail for Villa, who did not
hesitate to come to you, now that the famous warrior the Almighty is in a trance much more dangerous.

Salvador
heard these words with evident interest, and after stating that he
had not favored Carlist sympathies to Navarro, but by considerations
of gratitude and friendship absolutely personal Butcher begged not
hide anything that the worthy soldiers of the Almighty happening.

The old man writhed in his seat. Taking and leaving with the restless hands, this or that
paper because his nerves were in complete anarchy, and said:

- Will come when these scoundrels, and come, but Christ lives!

Now, under that shadow King, dance on our ribs, but the roles are bartered, hee .... Just imagine
that the brave D. Carlos went to Navarre to confer with Santos and other brave Thief captains,
good people, healthy people, the people of God.

Well, there was a riot of Viana realistic volunteers, by impatience and zeal silly misunderstanding.
The Viceroy 14 Navarre sent against them a column.

The column does not beat anyone ... as always, but caught D. Carlos, who was in the Franciscan
friary, ji, ji, and together with Thief's nephew and a cappuccino Santos, who caught doing rounds,
led him Estella.

Summary was formed, were party to Madrid, and this Government has
sent cowardly and despicable today, today, ji, has commanded to be
put to the sword, Mr. D. Carlos, the nephew Santos capuchinito Thief
and the cartridge.

I know all these details for a Official War Office, which belongs
to us body and soul, and no doubt ji, that execrable order of the
Minister will, at the latest, by the morning mail.

- It is a deplorable
incident - said Salvador thoughtful - but we can not deny the Government
the right of defense.

You, who have so much power, would not be able to avoid this catastrophe,
but only the part that corresponds to our unfortunate friend?

- "I
screamed ?...-- Butcher, in a tone of self-pity -.

Me?

Well is the branch of War in these times that I can achieve ....
You, you ....

- Me? - Said Salvador, sorrowing of his political and
military impotence -.

I have just relations officers.

What if I have to make? To make matters worse, I have been branded as apostolic by some fools,
and the military are very liberal winds today.

I can not anything.

Both short time meditated, D. Very happy with the eyes placed on the
bloody fossil Christ of the column, Salvador reading the lines of
the mat.

- In order of who is Navarro?

Do you know the head of the column that detained or Estella Governor?

-
Well, now ... you captured the rogue military commander and Estella
are the same devilish person, ji, ji, and this person is the lost
of the lost, the grand master of the scoundrels, Pseudocyst, plus
Mason and more liberal Caiaphas Cain .... Do you know him?

- Long
- Salvador replied just read in the mat -.

We have so much friendship, which probably pseudocyst what not to do for me not do it for anyone.

-
What a pity, Santo Cristo de la Vega!

Alas, Blessed Lady of the tabernacle, not Navarra is the leagues
Móstoles or not cut them into sticks!

... because in this case distance kills us. Not valid for this sensitive issue letters of recommendation
....

- It is true that none of this applies.

- The distance, the distance! ... If we could bring here .... Navarra

- We will there to Madrid.

- How?

- Mr. D. Felicísimo - rising Salvador said - I'm going to
Navarre.

- You! ... When?

- As soon as possible. Depends on the
means to find. If I find a car this afternoon, This evening I go.

-
What do you trust to take advantage of his friendship with that skinning
Mason? ... But what friends you have! ... I'm scared.

- I think I
can get something.

- But what is really you ...

- It is already
decided. I am well - said the gentleman giving some rides from one
angle to another in the dusty room.

- Do you want letters of recommendation?

-
Why clergy, canons, soldiers, monks who make cartridges, and abbots
who organize games? Yes, yes, come letters. None of that is useless
for my purpose.

- Know you well what happened - said D. Felicissimo,
delivering Salvador various letters, that this began to read avidly
-. You see what I wrote the Franciscan guardian Estella .... You see
also the relationship of the event very detailed that makes me prior
the bare Viana. There you will see the pseudocyst niceties of his
friend, who smokes in churches, insults to the nuns, and said publicly
that God is Elizabethan.

- I do not think pseudocyst has become silly.

-
See you, see you.  I agree with you. And indeed it is very plain that when I stir my finger, it remains
passive; but my will which produced the motion is active.

PHIL.  Now, I desire to know, in the first place, whether, motion being allowed to be no action,
you can conceive any action besides volition: and, in the second place, whether to say something
and conceive nothing be not to talk nonsense: and, lastly, whether, having considered the premises,
you do not perceive that to suppose any efficient or active Cause of our ideas, other than
SPIRIT, is highly absurd and unreasonable?

HYL. In
fact, it was America who held this conversation with another no less mischievous schoolboy, for
it using a kind of postal communication established under the folders through a slide wire running
from one job to another to hide from others schoolchildren and parents. Affecting both friends
found busy in student assignments. Nor rumor, nor looks, disturbed the peaceful silence of the study
room. Seats of both were close. The thread running smoothly under tables, carrying and bringing
a piece of paper, in which each wrote his macaroni, usually referring to events of the day,
and so sweetly spent hours entertaining to the great detriment of the Lesson noted. Sometimes
it worked the telegraph sub - Carpetani only to note that Father Fernandez was drooling or
Solís father was shooting the bonnet. Nearly the reader is well versed in the humanities macaronic,
transcribed dialogue will be deducted That morning she had married D. Benigno Cordero in the
chapel of Dolores de San Isidro. This great event was observed in late June.

D. was Benigno on that occasion, serene and serious, like a man who
fulfills the most important duties.

One seemed happy without affectation, the boys were happy Crucita and cursing. The blessing
was given by Father Gracian, who held Cordero long conference on the afternoon of that day a hundred
times pomp.

Let us now leave this worthy family, who always seem few all blessings the sky, and follow the
venerable Jesuit, whose steps are now of great interest. Accompanied the young man who used to
walk with him, left the Imperial College, took to the streets of Studies and into that of the Maldonados,
stopped his steps in the door of a call establishment, whose name was more appropriate tenducho.
Looked inside, saw no one, he looked back, calling, and the spell of the voice, a huge tinajón
Hastened away to donuts that he was cornered. He fell from an old mat, they parted two brooms,
and the movement gap these pieces turned out, saw himself appear a figure of stunted little
woman, who advanced limping.

- Romualda, what were you doing there?

The girl rubbed her eyes.

- I was asleep - he replied.

- How well you take care of the store?

Shop!

Just for hyperbole itching to give this name could mean Aguaducho,
consisting of a half dozen bottles, a large jar of cherries in brandy,
brass case with front glass half full of cakes and sugar cubes, and
a couple of jugs of water Arganzuela.

- I was very sleepy - said
Romualda -.

I had a sleepless night waiting for Father Lopez, happened between
two lights.

- Intoxicated maybe .... Praise God!

... And now is your father at home?

- I do not know ... rise. My stepmother is in bed.

- Go up, and if your father, tell him to get off at the time. I need to give a message.

While Romualda up, leaving the good priest and their companions at the door of the establishment,
say how wealth and sufficiency of happened that demoralized family butcher the narrowness of
a miserable trade in water and wine. At home where there are no links or the emotions that make
up the family, where peace is leaving his post to discord and services take the place of the
economy and sobriety, can not in any way settles the prosperity. Nazaria activity and intelligence
did not suffice to mitigate the ill effects the laziness of Lopez, which not only wasted in
the acquired clumsy fraucachelas with their dirty tricks and political connections, but also
knew hurry, leaving them in the pure tables, desk drawers, full of fat depletion of the morning. Nazaria
not spent on frivolities, but in luxury and wasteful whims. Insisted to buy a gem another, and no
lights up out of his home left without taking hands, in exchange
for good money, the rich shawl, the comb of shell, ivory fan, the
proud Flemish lace and other valuable items rich houses of Madrid
daily show the dark haul market. The butcher produced a lot, but the
genre and Candelario Mortanchez does not fall out of the blue, he
soon began to decline the house, reeling and staggering fell around
a year, into the abyss of disgrace. Or, how often must it be proved not to exist,
before you are content to part with it? But, to say no more of this (though by all the laws
of disputation I may justly blame you for so frequently changing the signification of the principal
term)--I would fain know what you mean by affirming that matter is an occasion, having already
denied it to be a cause. And, when you have shewn in what sense you understand OCCASION, pray,
in the next place, be pleased to shew me what reason induceth you to believe there is such
an occasion of our ideas?

HYL.  As to the first point: by OCCASION I mean an inactive unthinking being, at the presence
whereof God excites ideas in our minds.

PHIL.  And what may be the nature of that inactive unthinking being? Rose,
shut himself up in the room that it had prepared. The greatest silence Ordenose not bother to
His Majesty, who would not take more than a boiled egg and a little chocolate clear. Called
water ice, but this could not please. He stood alone, and soon he called for him to carry a
band and a little fat to be worn on the forehead. A those who had accompanied him came to
give what he asked, and then lay down His Royal Majesty and turned off the light. For two hours
the most profound silence reigned, and the priest walked on all fours almost not to make noise
that could disturb the sleep of the first of the rebels. But suddenly rang through the streets
of Elizondo crash of cavalry came many horsemen's house parish priest and the chief got out of
them entered the house without asking permission or ignore the priest, who came to ask chirping
and puffing as irreverent account of noise. Despite this, the quality of character required to
pass word to His Majesty. They did so and the Sovereign entered at the time commanded Zumalacárregui.
King's voice was heard saying:

- Bring a light.

Zumalacárregui was in the hallway, beret in hand.

- Come light - said, taking her hands of the priest that she had been hurried.

It was a candle, not very gallantly put it on a candlestick made of clay. Zumalacárregui approached
and entered the dark room. His Majesty was built into the bed. Even wore the band. The general
moved slowly, with respect and shyness. Reached out to the limelight.

The light shone full on his countenance D. Carlos, in which there
shone no flash even slight spark of intelligence.

With the band, the pale, shaved his mustache (due to Travel costume), but it was a stupid face
was very close. Zumalacárregui said voice choked with emotion: - "Lord": and bowed. He looked
like a pine tree that bends.

- Come - King said extending his hand.

The general left the limelight of clay on the table, and going to bed knelt ground. He was still
shaken. The King received with joy that could not be defined, that first paying tribute to
his recent Majesty for the most illustrious and most powerful of
his vassals.

Zumalacárregui then lit the candle that had brought it off was in
real stay.

The two lights, although greater clarity, made more dismal the dismantled
enclosure.

The King and the general spoke.

Meanwhile two men in a secluded and narrow room on the ground floor
of the rectory were, entertained the insomnia talking about the event
that motivated so much noise and inputs and outputs extremes of people.

-
Who's out there that makes so much noise? - Navarro asked his brother.

-
It's not something that should stay up because neither you nor I want.

Sleeps tonight the parsonage a crazy bastard will pass.

- Where now?

... And what is your hobby?

- The most bizarre and crazy that you can imagine. Has come to believe and claim to be King Spain.

-
Who leads?

- Others as crazy as him.

- That can not be - Navarro said quickly
- because the crazies do not lead to crazy .... Someone will be right
between them.

That evening the old priest had spoken of the likely entry of D. Carlos in Baztán and the approach
of troops and Eraso Zumalacárregui to protect the entrance of the
King and make the first honors.

Looking back, Navarro said with some excitement that dazzled their lost eyes.

- This noise, this coming and going, the horse stepped on, can not be anything more than the
input of His Majesty, and as I came here with my army to wait, confer
with him and receive royal orders, when I get dressed and go, because
he ought not to wait our Lord.

He fell out of bed, and not a little labor cost Salvador arrest. Using ingenious arguments, and
sometimes by force, could calm driven crazy by repeating what the
crazy.

- His Majesty not come yet - he said -. I swear by the name
you bear that will be the first know your arrival.

Navarro was asleep
shortly after, and in his feverish dream was to His Majesty, paid
tribute litigation; heard his orders, he took with him to the theater
of war. Upon awakening, its decay was as great as if he had to win
battles and walking thirty horse tirelessly all Navarra.

PHIL.  It seems then you include in your present notion of Matter nothing but the general abstract
idea of ENTITY.

HYL.  Nothing else; save only that I super-add to this general idea the negation of all those
particular things, qualities, or ideas, that I perceive, imagine, or in anywise apprehend.

PHIL.  Pray where do you suppose this unknown Matter to exist?

HYL.  Oh Philonous! now you think you have entangled me; for, if I say it exists in place,
then you will infer that it exists in the mind, since it is agreed that place or extension
exists only in the mind. - I will make an effort - said the girl -, all, all I know, but punish me for daring or keep me
crazy. The man that haunts me I told you, I am struck and comes to me in street, in church
and in your own home and makes me more insolent propositions. Wait dazzle and seduce and to
give up my will. The fatuity with which he shows off and brags to achieve all this, I was humiliated,
I was humiliated and offended me. I want revenge and avenge me. I want to disabuse the man and the
hardest undeceive with disappointment. By itself and through third vile insists on me to get
alone in my house, and I make an appointment. I tired to deny it, without getting to desist, which
I respect, to form the opinion of me should and who will treat me as a woman is honest, I have
agreed to the appointment to come and see and know who I am and to treat as it deserves.

- Animas blessed! - Dona Ines said, putting his hands on his head -. You do not know you've
done. That is aventuradísimo. Even though you know resist, but not tempted or kids, do not you
see that you expose yourself to take your reputation on the floor because that evil seductive
beat you, and if you do not take revenge ends deshonrándote and assuming you got what I wanted?
Did not you notice how unseemly it is for a girl to grant such appointments, although is to be
successful in them? What horrors will he think of you from when giving him the appointment? It
is essential that you send to say that you regret and that the quote will not occur.

Juanita knew that the moment had arrived when I had to take to roll his humility and obedience, independent
declaring his teacher and friend and expressing what their strong and indomitable will, that
nothing and no one bows.

Start-up and going to Dona Ines said:

- You do not know me yet. I do not regret my brow. The better off they believed that Mr. I had
a moment of weakness and then I was sorry. Do not warn that thus I confess I blamed, if not
the crime, the attempted? No, I'm not weak. You believe you have committed to lamb, and I
am a lion. For the strange affection that I've become linsojearme compliments me and comparing
me to think and calling Sulamita gentle and graceful as Jerusalem.

You'll see that I'm also terrible as a squadron of cavalry charging to gallop on the enemy.

Juanita,
near Dona Ines, fascinated watching her cat eyes, which seemed red
light mixture of fire and blood.

Then he continued:

- What is the decency that I recommend that you not miss? Who recognizes that decorum born poor
like me, the daughter of a woman washing tripe and black pudding to win it their livelihood?
All despise me, treat me wrong and think worse of me. So far I have suffered; but I ran out
of suffering. I must be terrible if necessary. In the same books
you have made me read not only extols the servile gentleness of Ruth,
but, if possible, the ferocity of Judith, who slaughters the captain
of the Assyrians, and the frightening feat of Jahel, crossing with
a hammer and nail the temples of Sisera.  To deal frankly with you, Philonous, your arguments seem in themselves unanswerable;
but they have not so great an effect on me as to produce that entire conviction, that hearty
acquiescence, which attends demonstration. I find myself relapsing into an obscure surmise
of I know not what, MATTER.

PHIL.  But, are you not sensible, Hylas, that two things must concur to take away all scruple,
and work a plenary assent in the mind? Let a visible object be set in never so clear a light,
yet, if there is any imperfection in the sight, or if the eye is not directed towards it, it
will not be distinctly seen. And though a demonstration be never so well grounded and fairly
proposed, yet, if there is withal a stain of prejudice, or a wrong bias on the understanding,
can it be expected on a sudden to perceive clearly, and adhere firmly to the truth? No; there
is need of time and pains: the attention must be awakened and detained by a frequent repetition
of the same thing placed oft in the same, oft in different lights. In the absence
had a system of principles, consisting of deception and energy. His political creed was a comedy
forty years. Its success debiose to have invigorated the principle of authority, and its discredit
or unpopularity to have prevented the progressive development of ideas. In religion was Voltaire and
private habits of temperance enemies, but had a coram vobis in righteousness that was the effect of
watching the silhouette of Satan in the shadow of the confessional. One of the first elements
of strength that come near it was the clergy, who flattered provided, no However, little money
to buy their goods, when pulled out of the progressive called dead hands. Except for two or three
individuals of unimpeachable purity were people of economies, and in time, with purchases of
goods disentailed formed an aristocracy that gradually became respectable, and in which there are
many Marquis and formidable element of order. In the military were unscrupulous and have been
seen to rule naturally, and even grace.

In the days of our story had the pleasing appearance of a young army, full of vigor and courage.
Its program of restraint contrary to many people. One skilled system of being and not being, of
balance between absolutism and liberals, using one against others, to promise and not fulfill,
to cover up with formulas, rhetorical and dicharachos now discredited, but then much in vogue,
the loop of the arbitrariness and the broadsword of force, paid off in time of such political
innocence, when freedom was like generous child and not without pampering, the easier to fool
than to convince.

The gathering of Genara was the center where the aspirations of those people started list to take
shape. There was precisely the system and becoming practical. There were established relations were
not to break it to death and they met and chose, let's say well, men. Young taken from the
old to know these sly and those the ease and vigor. Humanly considered, these people had a special
superiority has been the cause of their dominance over a third of a century: it was the superiority
of manners, important thing in our age. There was in those days as a clear dividing line and
states that separated into two halves the immense political staff, created by revolutions.
In the course of this line had some part of the tailors scissors. No was average and was a great
pity that so many generous and saving ideas could not by fate, emancipation of rudeness, bad
clothes and worse talk.

Thus the advent of the middle class was a tedious and cumbersome. That class, monkish educated, he
could not himself take some rough edges, so it only prevailed in
public life the few who knew how to wear the coat.

Genara fired that day, July 16, 1834, and cleared, one to his office, because almost all were
employed, the other to take a nap.

Still in those times took naps, and the day following that July 16 was given when available Providence
that the government celebrated a nap.

The lady went full of sorrow and fear, fear for he knew if away from Madrid would go away poisonous
air, of shame, because he left his life sweet and gifted, their evening filled amenity or interest,
its influence in the ruling party, and maybe, maybe something more strongly interest to his
heart. Quitting the brilliance of his wit and beauty, to the adulation of cut small male that celebrated
day in and day abdicate the crown and flee the capital of his kingdom of compliments to plunge it
into a rustic lugarón where there was no to have more comfort to
read tasteless and where he received the sad news of the order her
husband was a hard thing for a flattering impressions heart friend,
for a fantasy always young and always dreaming to awareness alarm.

This woman is over now for us. Within the limits set to these stories, there is no and the
rest of your life full of accidents, and not taken by the Cenobites neither model they intend
to be holy, or something resembling saints. Just say, who lived many years and at sixty was still
beautiful. Witty, kind and somewhat intriguing, it was until seventies, and for two years was
a model of Christian devotion and uplifting treatment with clergy and guilds, until God wanted
to take from this world.

No dropped her home above and to D. Very happy, but died suddenly at the last third of 68, if
not chronicles are wrong.

That day (we return to our July 16, 1934), D. Benigno was the last thing he squeezed hand. The
hero walked around the streets of Toledo and square of the barley, because heard that there
was unrest in those neighborhoods and liked to browse. A horrible sight stopped him in his outing.
He saw a boy cruelly murdered by hush in tanks the water sellers. This trick often then, commonly
punished slaps. Things had changed, and the wicked angels were treated as my major criminals.
Cordero declined to enter the street from the Duke of Alba, and in the studies received a header
that made him jump off the sidewalk into the gutter.

The hard object that was rammed coffin.

One man wore on his head, giving blows to all passers was in his
way.

- Beast! - Lamb shouted.

Tables recognized the point, and softening the voice asked

- Who
is it, brother?

- For this, for that - he replied without stopping
López step.

Lamb saw some women crying.

-XXVII-

Disheveled, pale, her eyes
sparking anger, trembling hands, fingers stiff and put forward the
way of knives, dry mouth, because it voices out more embers words,
more like a female devil woman, was at the door Maricadalso a humble
house on Rock Street.

Her screams brought in alarm to the whole street, as the bell of a fire, and windows and doors
appeared neighbors. What faces and what fascists! The Maricadalso was screaming at times plaintive
and sorrowful, sometimes menacing and delirious. Its loose terms, leaving the mouth sparks violent
not fall under the jurisdiction of the written language, because the characteristic of them would
to be separating from the gross. These words were that shade and pepper disputes popular,
equal to the brightness of the knife incident in the air and foul blood spatter among the filth
of a hard heart out to a thirsty mouth injury. Between that can not reproduce these phrases
highlighted .-- My daughter dead! ... Bad things in water! ... Those rascals! ...

Many ladies of the lamp, degraded remnant of immortalized D. Ramon de la Cruz, surrounded to Maricadalso.
A harpy screaming in the middle of the street of the Rock or any other those neighborhoods,
you are assured of taking the deepest conviction to the mind of audience, especially if what
you say is nonsense of those that do not fall in the head never discrete.

With magic speed, all the women who surrounded Maricadalso assimilated the views and feelings of
this. The people are wonderful conductor of good as the bad ideas, and when one of these sit
well on him, beating him completely and mass invades. Soon the individual was a harpy harpy
collective, a hideous monster that occupied middle of the street and had four hands to threaten
and two hundred mouths to say things bad in the water!

Who never think, accept with joy the strange thoughts, mostly if it is a thought big so terrifying
absurdity again. That day had been many deaths. Several families at home were dead or dying. In
the presence of a disaster or great misfortune, the people will not occur for natural reasons
for what he sees and suffers.

His Ignorance is not permitted to know what is contagion, infection, morbid, miasmatic development.
What you must know how ignorance, if you still know just science? The town is dying with symptoms
and frightening characters, and can not think of pathological causes. Christian routine rigors
can not think of God. Bestial and rude at all, but can not say: Bad things in the water!

This idea of ​​the infamously bad things thrown in the rich water of Madrid, in order Pure and
simple to kill people, fell into the populace as Magin called the straw. There has been no
idea that soon will spread more rapidly or that run, or that more quickly was elevated to an article
of faith.

Why not, if it was the same nonsense?

Some women went to see the body of the daughter of Maricadalso, whose coffin had bring López. It
was a pretty girl, cigar, with honest opinion.

Maricadalso up home, weeping beside the body of his daughter, fell back screaming, cursing,
back up and mourn .... Death no longer seemed Madness singing but in his own way the Dies
Irae. As twenty, thirty, forty men rose to the square of that spreading Barley Satanic gospel
of the bad things in the water. Timothy Pelumbres found, husband Maricadalso and father of the
dead. Heard this screaming and dropping the tools he carried, hurriedly ran a tavern where men
fought.

- See? - Shouted showing his fist -. Everyone says .... They have
poisoned the water!

Restless, fierce and small, Timothy had all the appearances of the jackal, looking down and traitor,
the muscles nimble, the single blow. Jump attack. It was the same whom we saw doing donuts
in the store immediately to the great butcher of the Peppers, who was protected, as well as
his wife. It was the same whom we saw long ago, leaded cafile the beast who killed the priest
Vinuesa hammered 21 in the jail of the street Head. Small tiger that
lived long.

Reached the time of Chico.

In the pub he was needed to electrify the elite competition. One speaker was Pelumbres, speaking
showing a fist and frowning. The women were screaming. Including is one of the news reported
that electrified, which double the excitement and sharpen the foul thought. The news was this: Of the
two boys who had surprised little throwing up a yellow land in tanks
of water carriers, one was killed instantly the other managed to escape
and took refuge .... Where? in the same San Isidro.

- As if everything
went away ...-- said a voice that was trying to be authoritative and
compelling despite being the voice of a savage.

- What is out there?

-
Powders.

- The dust!

The claimed this was a big man, an animal of those storms that appear
in popular no one knows who brought it, and leave all bloody sign
of their passage.

Followed him a dozen individuals of those who show a human face looking
at us, although it is doubtful they are men.

- Yes, gentlemen, it's
all figured out - he said the scruffy, was Charts in person -.

And if missing witness, I am here to give.

Two women will be hung from each arm. Made himself into a huddle around him. Formábalo curiosity
how awful people gather around the gallows, the pool of blood, a
sign a crime, or by the dark agony of a dog.

Tables are proud of their role. That his day was a day, a day that would show their power with
pretensions to political power Oh! What a great time!

Two dozen lost obeyed him, and obey the stone in a sling. Tables was the deep, but was far from hand.

-
Well, yes gentlemen - added López -. I myself I have taken yesterday a half bushel sack Poison!

-
Media bushel of poison!

- And you've taken it?

- Yes, because I knew what it was. It is not the first time these wicked receive remittances
from poison.

The bag that they took yesterday came in Catalonia for that ....
Do not want to name.

- Say you, talkative - cried a voice behind
the huddle -.

Is he dead Pimenta also?

- For it goes. This morning I woke up with evil.

- Have you been drinking water?

- Has taken the same powder as a medicine.

An exclamation of horror hosted this terrifying statement.

- Who
has given them?

- Priests and monks are all about.

They paid him as a holy medicine, taking them and start to feel the jaws of anger was all the
same thing.

This was too frightening for the worthy competition could comment. Silence grim heard that proved
his lack of ideas to that fact and the alarming retreat of his passions, which is then concentrated
to emerge more strongly. Tables placed face distressed. Wished to excite his compassion for
the crowd and go through a victim of the black arts of certain people. But in his rudeness could
not quite swallow the idea policy in that crazy series of blunders. Trying to spread nonsense and given
the improbability which makes it more accessible to the mind of the masses, not without skill
tables, because that looks like an owl in the darkness, some understandings have the ability
of the absurd. But he wanted to reason, to deliver a foundation rather than to justify the coup, to
be satisfied himself as a man's political views. I needed a formula to give him prestige among
its listeners by awarding some hints of leadership initiative.

He frowned, dropped his head, picked up her mind to find the formula needed. As on similar occasions
in his forehead that looked like the bull's forehead hard, preventing Rush. The spark came out of the
mists of that caletre, as there are dark brain that is, not having
their rehendijas where between sometimes some light.

- Do not know
what this is? - Said with great animation - feeling glimpses of genius
-.

Did not You know what this means? Poison by poison is like ....

Looked for the word logical, I had heard many times in the club, but did not give her. The Plugging
word would not want to spend, as a large coin that can not enter the small slit of a bank.

-
No, not ...-- added wrestling and throwing the word out to the end,
though disfigured it is not unreasonable.

Why poison people? To stop the Liberals. They say: 'No we annihilate our enemies one by one, they
end up with all mankind. " (Feeling very deep.)

He realized that he would do well in that case an historical memory,
and re-gather brow.

This was extremely difficult and his brain had no ability to hold an event history. It amounted
to wanting to get, not a coin, but a camel in the bank. Thought hard and scratched his forehead.
I had heard in the club crowd of citations and references of past events, but he no was coming
to mind. Suddenly a woman Feminine genius oh! said this:

- It's like Herod.

Tables shuddered with joy. I had what I needed. Cupping the scoring with his voice and compasillo
paw a chapel, and continued his speech:

- Yes, gentlemen, as well as the tyrant Herod, for losing the baby Jesus, sent to kill all children,
according to pray the Evangelists, the scoundrels, to see a game end, with the Liberal Party,
want to kill all the Spanish, to all mankind, all the globe.

Described with a straight arm circle a vast and very rapid. God knows to where they would reached
the rhetoric of the old butcher, if at that moment God did not allow a sudden tragedy. It was
the first terrible fact, sprouting from the last word of Lopez. In the mob Ardent words are amazing
spread, and cops also the speed with which the These flowers come off of blood barbarism. A lego crossed
in front of America, turned the corner of the square according to Puerta de Moros. He was hurried
and afraid, carrying a bundle of paper in his hand, something like
two pounds of sugar, recently purchased the store.

- He takes poison!
- Shouted several women running toward him.

The lay was surrounded by a group and disappeared into it. There was more than a thrill arms and heads,
a swarm of bodies that struggled between screams. Some piteous woes slipped between the shouting.
After only saw a dark mass of people in silent siege looking down.

Tables had taken another direction. For a time the populace was divided. The shreds of black
cloud that wandered a while through the streets of Studies, Toledo,
San squares Millán and Barley. Great confusion reigned. The athlete,
with his half dozen ruffians walked up the street from Maldonado. I say, secondly, that, although we believe things to exist which we do
not perceive, yet we may not believe that any particular thing exists, without some reason
for such belief: but I have no reason for believing the existence of Matter. I have no immediate
intuition thereof: neither can I immediately from my sensations, ideas, notions, actions, or
passions, infer an unthinking, unperceiving, inactive Substance--either by probable deduction,
or necessary consequence. Whereas the being of my Self, that is, my own soul, mind, or thinking
principle, I evidently know by reflexion. You will forgive me if I repeat the same things in
answer to the same objections. In the very notion or definition of MATERIAL SUBSTANCE, there
is included a manifest repugnance and inconsistency. But this cannot be said of the notion
of Spirit. That ideas should exist in what doth not perceive, or be produced by what doth not
act, is repugnant. But, it is no repugnancy to say that a perceiving thing should be the subject
of ideas, or an active thing the cause of them. Is it true that Cristina has embarked or
is on track to embark? Is it true that the Prince has returned from Portugal, and heads the army?
". To these questions the traveler could not answer because he knew nothing, but well he reached
that came from false information and lies, cleverly planted seed in these countries had to make
shots early harvest. Kept going and finally came into Estella. Although it was twelve a beautiful
day when he stepped on the square, the next whim seized very dark shadow thrown heights above
the city and that was drowning in her belt mountains. Each step was gang-coated clergymen cape
and hat umbrella tassel, chatting in a living language on the issue of the day, which was the
death of King and problem of succession.

And ran one of those gentlemen to inquire about the residence of Colonel pseudocyst, he wanted
to see without wasting time, and the clerk, and pike chubby man, answered as follows:

- New you in this land. If it were you, I know that to find the famous Pseudocyst no further
to find out where to play and where people drink.

Pointing his umbrella at the corner of the street, said the good man that follows: - Do you see
the house where it says in really big letters Spirits?

Well there you will find you when drunk.

And he went laughing and rushed to meet the crew that had followed
on foot while he paused.

All other individuals of red and black cap umbrella were also pike and chubby, sure sign of people
not much given to penance.

Salvador soon found his friend, and found him drunk and playing, but gathering with three other
soldiers and two civilians. The colonel's surprise and joy were great. After hugging, retiráronse
a dilapidated quarter of the inn (as an inn, café, tavern and something else was that house)
and talked to more than an hour alone. When Salvador was removed rest in the same room that I spent
there, I thought I had won the game and was satisfied with his risky journey, which had the
fortunate. But God willed that all plans are disrupted and that every difficulty overcome born
another impressive difficulty. That recibiose afternoon announcement that Mr. Santos Thief, the daring
guerrilla Rioja, came Estella on five hundred volunteers, the cry of Spain by Charles V. Stood on
the move the small garrison of the place, and God knows what would have happened if it did
not timely Brigadier Lawrence, commanded by the Viceroy Solá with the regiment and provincial
Cordoba Sigüenza. Lorenzo did not rest in Estella. That night saw the streets Salvador Mayor
and Santiago crowded with soldiers, who were rationed with bread
and wine, talked with them and could note that reigned among the troops
good spirit, although his enthusiasm for the cause that started to
defend was not very big yet.

Lorenzo started at midnight. The next day he learned of the battle of the Arcos that volunteers
were shattered and the thief was captured. Salvador saw second time the troops of Lawrence,
back to Pamplona, ​​bringing the guerrilla gift Santos and Iribarren. The worst thing for our friend,
was that Lorenzo was also Pamplona to the three prisoners in the prison of Estella were, and
with this determination came to earth built by Monsalud plan in concert with pseudocyst. Setback
as unexpected success seemed to herald lousy attempts Salvador generous because Estella prisoners
were already sentenced to death. But it collapsed because of this, and put up to Pamplona,
​​following the winning squad. It gave him an advantage on pseudocyst accompany him, to which
had humanitarian cooperation, although it would be difficult exercise
in the same residence of the Viceroy.

Along the way he could see his brother Salvador prisoner and in a state of exhaustion and despondency
that inspired pity those who watched him. In a rickety cart was lying transports on pallets, the
hardness of the stones to compete. As the truck had a canopy and Palitroques mode side bars, they
look like a cage was large, from which it was that Mr. Navarro, looked from the outside, skinny, boring,
stiff and sleepy, it seemed D. something Quixote when he had loved since the sale to his village.
Salvador was able to approach, with the leave of the escort, and
exchanged a few words with the prisoner, which was slow recognize
and looked slowly with eyes like those of a madman.

- What are you
doing here? - Said bringing his face to the sticks -.

Are you the one who looks or you another?

- I'm the one appears - bowing Salvador said as much about the saddle
of his horse -. There is therefore no danger of confounding these with the
foregoing: and there is as little of confounding them with the visions of a dream, which are
dim, irregular, and confused. And, though they should happen to be never so lively and natural,
yet, by their not being connected, and of a piece with the preceding and subsequent transactions
of our lives, they might easily be distinguished from realities. In short, by whatever method
you distinguish THINGS FROM CHIMERAS on your scheme, the same, it is evident, will hold also
upon mine. For, it must be, I presume, by some perceived difference; and I am not for depriving
you of any one thing that you perceive. It is incontrovertible point
which to settle their accounts with Shelter and get rid of this disgusting fly, did not to
strive as much as in similar cases described in this book. And is that such occasions sets, dramas
tame, or whatever you call them, were the tests that moral change, and had to take her as inexperienced
and novice.

Frankly, of course, I watched them go with regret. The day they left, the upper town seemed a place
under threat of bombardment. There was not any more than it moves, hit motion people and a
huge racking furniture and various junk. Through the dark streets not could travel. Dramatically
with the spectacle enjoyed Alfonsito Bringas, which would have liked
to handle the transportation of all in cars of their property.

The tooth fairy was sorry to see him. Leaning on the arm of his wife, walked slowly disturbed vision,
hesitant speech. Serena and somewhat majestic, Rosalie did not say a word all the way from the house
to the Plaza de Oriente, but in his eyes eloquent was clear conviction
proud consciousness of their role as the cornerstone of the house
so distressing circumstances.

In no uncertain terms that I heard the same from his own lips later in demure interview. We were
in full time revolutionary. Wanted to repeat the evidence of his ruinous friendship, more I hastened
to bring them about, as if it seemed natural that she should be the
mainstay of the loss family, I thought I if so, against all the dictates
of moral and economic domestic.

End of "Bring LA"

MADRID. April-May 1884. Besides, that which to you, I know not for what reason, seems so extravagant is no
more than the Holy Scriptures assert in a hundred places. In them God is represented as the
sole and immediate Author of all those effects which some heathens and philosophers are wont
to ascribe to Nature, Matter, Fate, or the like unthinking principle. This is so much the constant
language of Scripture that it were needless to confirm it by citations. Several times she had Solá
warned. Stories of their steps and had been allowed to have horses. She lived with her family
man and was very moderated. Not readily made known their views, but passed by fervent supporter
of D. Carlos. Went to Mass every day and after walking Mass Taconera two hours, whatever time.

Salvador
and D. Thomas spoke a short time.

D. Sympathized with his friend Thomas D. Carlos Navarro, and then, as the other will bring
out the war and the look took, said with apparent candor, the true mask of his cunning, which,
in his opinion, things would not go forward. Not to be called on to speak, pressed his friend's hand
and continued walking along the wall.

The next day was spent on weapons in the moat of the fortifications D. Holy Thief who died brave as
Spanish and resigned as a Christian. Iribarren then suffered a similar fate, leader less famous
than the first. It was already pointed out the sacrifice of Garrote for 15, when the Viceroy,
given the pitiful state of the offender, deferred his death, rather, the mandated nature.
Doctors had said that Navarro would not live two weeks and Sola had the opportunity to show their
humanity. The patient was taken to hospital, what his brother was
very happy because something is better than dead evicted.

Every day news came to town alarming insurrection took flight. In Oñate was put into the field
upwards in Salvatierra Uranga, in Toranzo Bárcena, Balmaseda in Fuentecén, and Navarre, which
was the center of this national uprising staged by semi-absolutism with the banner of Christ
had risen and Goni Eraso, Iturralde and Irañeta cure. Eraso had for him to Roncesvalles, the Borunda Goñi,
and the pastor was ravaging the flats.

Was a that of Irañeta brave soldier and could take place in these strange exalted ecclesiastical and
military pomp, which are written in black letters horrible deeds of Merino, Anton and Trappist
Coll.

Navarro was taken to hospital where his brother could see him often. The rough character However
the sudden and bitter grief of the patient did not change anything from the power of the jailers
to surgeons, although its condition entered a period of relief by hygienic advantages of moving
house. Bedridden, sometimes spent entire days without uttering a single word, but Salvador did
the impossible by taking an even of that chest that was a sea of ​​melancholy. In contrast, other
days she was so talkative that could not follow the conversation incoherent and exalted. Salvador
and the surgeon tried with wit gallant efforts to bring his talk with the terms of discretion
and good reasoning, but the more you want to leave them the way the trial was thrown harder
D. Carlos by the cliffs of nonsense. If they talked about the crops, the harsh winter and diverting
tales interspersed in his conversation, he did not drew one of the war, Carlist thrust and the
need for a military leader of prestige and value to put an Navarre front heading to organize and
make them a powerful army ruled. Imagined do believe that there was already such a war and that
the rebels had already submitted the Government, but this worked
contrary to the good will of Salvador, because hearing Navarro about
the subject, furious, threw suits and wanted to throw the bed.

Was easier Navarra pacify to enter that brain rebelled at the idea of ​​peace.

The most effective way to calm you and make you take the medicines was telling the exploits the
priest and the leader Irañeta Mongelos, two types of war of robbers. But if they said that
all religious furor carlino of such heroes was just a screen for
concealing contraband, then the patient pulled the cuffs of the sheets,
called the whelp surgeon, and told his brother:

- You are an intriguing
wrapped Mason.

Go away from here and leave me alone. In my way, I swear I clog. I loaded your care, because I
want to thank all. Do you hear it? I do not want to thank you all, and this. Weight on me
like a mountain, and I will not have health while you're away from me and I may say, "I owe
nothing, not my brother, an intruder. "

Of these things we laughed Salvador, and captured his will and his tame a bit surly genius devised
to affect sympathetic to the Prince and the apostolic insurrection. One morning I took the news
circulating in the city, giving reason to endless comments. Zumalacárregui had spent the Carlist
camp. He said he saw him two days earlier had gone very tomorrow, with military overcoat, through
the door of Carmen, and had found its way on foot to a sale nearby, where three men were waiting
with a horse. A colonel went escape Huarte Araquil leader to where he awaited the priest Irañeta
and Monge. The three left together towards the mountains in search of Iturralde, believed.

Monsalud much surprised to see that his brother, instead of receiving this news with joy that he
always showed in the case of benefits Carlist, heard with amazement, and then extremely long
pause, long afflicted and struck on the forehead as a sign of depression and despair. Suddenly extended
his hand. Grabbing the arm of her brother, atrájole to themselves and quietly, with the more
somber tone you can imagine, he said these words:

- See what makes Zumalacárregui? Well, that I should have done. Did I not say that it was necessary
that a military commander is put an the front of this holy uprising to organize? Well that
boss should be me, me. What makes Zumalacárregui? The same I would have done. Its role is mine,
mine its laurels, your win my triumph. If I were not in this abhorrent bed, be where he is now, and
what he thinks and will do for sure, and would be done .... What
despair, God of God!

That said, got his fierce eyes on his brother's sad and serene, wrapped him in a you look scary and
tightened his grip on his arm, saying:

- Listen, if I take out of this bed, if I take out of Pamplona and put me in unless Huarte Araquil
or Oricain and give me a horse, I swear I will end the hatred I have
for you and be my brother wanted, and give you a good understanding
with your care, thanking them instead of rejecting them.

Do it, do it for me and our father, whose memory and whose name I put hour loop reconciliation
between the two ....

Salvador felt cold in my heart.

In the first moment he had the idea to appear please his brother, winding up his insanity, but
the point that was considered very dangerous foster system, Siqueira
was temporarily insane as hobbies, and only said: - If persist in
this madness, and then I leave you to call your dear brother.

Navarro shouted: Intruder! and point your head and arms disappeared between the sheets. Was
that the final movement of his anger and genuine way to break the command.

Since that day, if found relief from their disease, declined over the slope of madness and such nonsense
was that the Viceroy ultimately acquitted him as unworthy of the scaffold. Was unable to die
at the hands of men. One night they found him half naked in an attic of the hospital looking
to go out the roof. Two days after he scolded the surgeon, and often threw the bed to run across
the room imaginary reviling enemies, just seen your lost understanding. Finally, after three months
in hospital, as mediated January 34, was found low in the army, and
the Viceroy ordered that He took over his family, if you had.

In that decision had no small part the good friends of Salvador. Thus was filled with their
wishes, and taking with the patient, installed it at home comfortably, decided to take him to Madrid
when his condition permits and pacify the rigors of that winter.

The temperature drop was spread over parts of the snow plates very hard and slippery glass.
The sources, muted in its gossipy rumor seemed decorations sugar by the quietness of icy jets
of a thousand facets. In the formidable walls Large caliber pieces were huddled in the snow,
and a protruding cape fold cold its yawning black mouth threatening to the field. In the trenches,
the immaculate whiteness almost blinded by the light, and cheerful Arga margins were unknown
in pure dressed. Trees with its stark white branches shaped trees did not appear, but a broken warp
waste tissue. The half-buried houses barely threw for his fireplace, covered of fine creams
and crystalline peaks, a stream of smoke rising slowly stain Heaven and resolved in the heavy
gray ink atmosphere as masses thrown into a huge Sea starch. Inside the houses reigned, however,
the hustle and bustle, be collected by people all the love of homes
where whole burning oak.

Outside, everything was frozen, even war, which had stopped moving in the field beat in the
heart of housing.

Against what they expected and feared Salvador Navarro got carried
away, and after installed housing so gloomy and sad than the hospital
where she previously lived, exaltation was changed to dejection and
indifference roughness, not without some moments of softness and even
discreet and tranquil grounds.

No contributed little to poverty alleviation was the loneliness and not allow Salvador to visit
him any person, because in the hospital the other patients were happy to warm you helmets, contradict
their vehemence or encouraged in their follies. A woman of character excellent, as remarkable
for its application and for your patience, I attended, and a peaceful cleric with him several
times. Doña Hermenegilda, as they called the owner, the widow of a forest rangers of Borunda and
had seven children, of whom, except the most small, who emigrated to the Americas, there were
none for having absorbed all on the various wars of the peninsula from the famous Independence
to the injured in Catalonia. As warriors were in small gaps or intervals of peace, none knew how to
do something worthwhile, and the little property that had been going to the lenders, dissolving
all in binges, gambling dens, unnecessary travel, hunting and weapons purchases broils. This and the
disastrous end of them all, was born in Dona Hermenegilda an abomination live as wars that could
lie was not anything concerning the fiery Mars and worship bloody. She said that a nation
of cowards would be most happy and prosperous world and when I objected to that nation would not
be in control of herself because enslave any foreign conqueror, responded that her beau ideal
was that all nations of the world are also cowards, for this to become a globe populated at all wise
beings. Doña Hermenegilda Navarre was not.

Could not have chosen on purpose Salvador person to care for a man wearing as is known, battles
evil. I had equal confidence of success in the election of Father Zorraquín for spiritual
companion and friend of the patient, because although it may sometimes taken at this priest
of the kindest, most gentle person in the world, others seemed if not rebellious and ambitious.
He was chaplain of nuns Zorraquín poor and could not hide their feverish desire to get to another
higher ecclesiastical position. Was no longer young the chaplain and had left the flower elapse
of its existence without merit enforce I thought to possess. All of your rants on this subject of
vanity concluded by saying, "Ya, times will come and justice, yes,
I come .... So we will not see the choirs of cathedrals cassock full
of masons, while the good church perish.

"

Garrote and not spent most of the day in bed. Forces had recovered, and bad, that once seemed deeply
rooted and owner of the person, allowed for some hours of complete. Very sensitive to cold, often
near the fire, watched steadily, throwing embers amid his eyes, as if to turn it on them, and
did not move until, inflamed his face with red reflections, reached a degree of irritation unbearable.
Then he retreated, retaining in her eye the image of the coals dazzling. After taking a few
walks around the room, until it has cooled, back together the flames and was delighted again contemplating
the red tongues of bluish tip, burned chips falling from the wood used to whisper of leaves,
and then languished ash asleep.

He ate little. Do not read anything, and his only distraction was pulling the foil to his brother.
But this entertainment lasted just minutes, for the low strength of the convalescent. Spoke
so little, sometimes even deprived of the necessities for not asking. In the long space of a month
spent three runs conversations held both brothers. In The first spoke of the conditions of the houses
in Pamplona, ​​Cathedral of the citadel, of the fortifications, the Rochapea and other local
issues, which showed his neat Navarro knowledge of the city. In the second, Salvador told
him about the war, trying to to test the trial of his brother, and had no little surprise to see
that addressed the Garrote matter with a poise and serenity of wonderful ideas. The third symposium
was all he expression personal feelings, and it might serve as a basis of agreement between
two men both were hated. Hence it must be placed among the most precious thing they have spoken
our characters, and played with integrity to be building our readers
as it was Hermenegilda Dona, who was honored to be present at the
gab.

-XXI-

One evening, after dinner, they both very passionate
praise a delicious stew wild pigeons were put Doña Hermenegilda.

Navarro then walked to the fireplace, if it were to plunge into it,
and as Savior admonished for that particular like crisps, Navarro
was removed, looked at his brother without the usual frown eyebrows,
and said these soft words

- Finished for driving like a boy.

What more do you want? Gradually I've been doing your prisoner without a fight, and medicines
first, with care then you've been winning. If there is no intention in all this unknown, now
declare that I am grateful the good I've done.

- An intention and a plan is in me - Salvador said - but both are
quite clear.

I wanted beat you with the arms of good and overpower by force of charity, emanating from a relationship
did not want to recognize. Do you recognize it now? Is it done by a stranger what I have done?

-
No - said noble decision Garrote -. It is not done by a stranger what have you done for me.
I have had days of great blackout in my head, but I see clearly,
and although I imagine sophistry and subtleties to misrepresent your
behavior to me, I can not.

The truth is stronger than my thoughts. I will have been imposed, imposing, and now you're above
me with a double character, because I can not completely separate in you hated man loving brother,
I do not think you can separate them as the two live.

- I've been more fortunate than you - said Salvador, apart again from the fire, which attracted as
a butterfly - because I've long since forgotten all offenses, has long I took all the rancor
and pulling them from me I missed out, as this role check fire.

Salvador threw a paper fire that burned instantly with playful flare.

Instinctively Navarro went to the fireplace and tried to pull the paper was burning, but burning
back fingers. This looked like a spark of madness, inspired Salvador the following:

- Do not put your hand in the fire to take what has fallen into it.

You, like me, you need to make forgive to be forgiven, you need to buy the generosity with generosity
and forgetfulness with oblivion.

- If you could forget ...-- murmured Navarro, always enraptured contemplation of the flame -.
 The making anything known which was unknown before is an innovation
in knowledge: and, if all such innovations had been forbidden, men would have made a notable
progress in the arts and sciences. But it is none of my business to plead for novelties and
paradoxes. That the qualities we perceive are not on the objects: that we must not believe
our senses: that we know nothing of the real nature of things, and can never be assured even
of their existence: that real colours and sounds are nothing but certain unknown figures and
motions: that motions are in themselves neither swift nor slow: that there are in bodies absolute
extensions, without any particular magnitude or figure: that a thing stupid, thoughtless, and
inactive, operates on a spirit: that the least particle of a body contains innumerable extended
parts:--these are the novelties, these are the strange notions which shock the genuine uncorrupted
judgment of all mankind; and being once admitted, embarrass the mind with endless doubts and
difficulties. And it is against these and the like innovations I endeavour to vindicate Common
Sense. It is true, in doing this, I may perhaps be obliged to use some AMBAGES, and ways of
speech not common. But, if my notions are once thoroughly understood, that which is most singular
in them will, in effect, be found to amount to no more than this.--that it is absolutely impossible,
and a plain contradiction, to suppose any unthinking Being should exist without being perceived
by a Mind. And, if this notion be singular, it is a shame it should be so, at this time of
day, and in a Christian country.

HYL.  As for the difficulties other opinions may be liable to, those are out of the question.
It is your business to defend your own opinion. Can anything be plainer than that you are for
changing all things into ideas? You, I say, who are not ashamed to charge me WITH SCEPTICISM.
This is so plain, there is no denying it.

PHIL.  You mistake me. I am not for changing things into ideas, but rather ideas into things;
since those immediate objects of perception, which, according to you, are only appearances
of things, I take to be the real things themselves.

HYL.  Things! You may pretend what you please; but it is certain you leave us nothing but the
empty forms of things, the outside only which strikes the senses.

PHIL.  What you call the empty forms and outside of things seem to me the very things themselves.
Nor are they empty or incomplete, otherwise than upon your supposition--that Matter is an essential
part of all corporeal things. We both, therefore, agree in this, that we perceive only sensible
forms: but herein we differ--you will have them to be empty appearances, I, real beings. In
short, you do not trust your senses, I do.

HYL.  You say you believe your senses; and seem to applaud yourself that in this you agree
with the vulgar. According to you, therefore, the true nature of a thing is discovered by the
senses. If so, whence comes that disagreement? Why is not the same figure, and other sensible
qualities, perceived all manner of ways? and why should we use a microscope the better to discover
the true nature of a body, if it were discoverable to the naked eye?

PHIL.  Strictly speaking, Hylas, we do not see the same object that we feel; neither is the
same object perceived by the microscope which was by the naked eye. 

Monsalud had not gone four steps inside the building when she was called from everywhere opposites.
He went where he had seen faces more to his liking, and after greeting several individuals sat
on the farthest table in the company of two subjects. One of them seemed Salvador have with
standing and close friendship as they greeted with much affection. Was median age and good
looks, was called Don Eugenio Aviraneta: his home had Guipúzcoa and had a very special talent
of the conversation quality is not rare in Spain, where they have made great careers know or
refer it to tell stories with art or raise issues and issues of all kinds. The other was younger,
fucking pale olive, hair and eyebrows of the greatest darkness, the sharp nose short and thick
mustache, modeling the knife in a unique manner under the most ridiculous fashion imaginable,
which was to draw two straight lines from the nostrils to extremes of the mouth, drawing a small
mustache and carefully carried the name triangular of mucus mustache. He also wore the olive character
a knob-tail rabbit and cheeks pin or short ribs, also shaped by the knife with a dedication
that almost came to the office of a rapist confused with the art of sculpture. This and the
short mechoncillos accompanied toupee over his ears were cries declaring that the auction and
crowning of this singular head had to be one of those huge helmets base narrow and extremely wide
cap, visor and chinstrap fine suspended copper sides faceplate. The Morion such immeasurable
was watching, yes, over the head of that good lord by force of analogy, but was discovered and
wear civilian clothes. But if a thread gets a ball, usually on one side also removed a Morion,
and thus could mouthful to say to our guy was more by token military and Ayacucho.

- I present to you my friend Captain Rufete - Aviraneta said putting his two relations comrades
-. Now tell us something, tell us what is in your life, man.

Then you are rich no one sees you.

Spoke at length of things in life, travel, hunting, disease, and without
knowing how magna stood on the question of the day, namely, that the
King did not die so soon as some crooks wanted, it was decided solemnly
swear Isabelita as heir to the throne, and the good-natured D. Carlos
was leaving for Portugal.

Filmed the conversation from idea to idea, until Aviraneta Salvador touched on the arm and said
mysteriously:

- If you want to take care of a delicate mission, there is no objection to confide.

- I know that conspire, "but by whom? - Salvador said laughing - Why
Cristina, D. Carlos or both at once?

- You know me and know that
my wings not to fly any bat.

I committed to explore the minds of liberal people to know under what conditions could have her
in case of a civil war.

- The free - ayacucho said with emphasis
- are and will always be next to the Princess Princess if you put
a pillow in her crib the best codes.

Free Calling the Liberals and the best codes to the Constitution of
12 constituted with many other phrases, a special style that has long
prevailed in all forms advanced literary party.

- Calle you, man,
for God's sake - said Aviraneta scolding with a gesture of spontaneity
Captain -.

The free, as you say, and liberals, as I call them, are as divided no two opinions you hear the
same if you talk to them.

There are plenty of fools who can not be started from the head as the best of the codes, there
are some crooks solemn than malice and having to face the mob, scream, if allowed, the constitution or death;
is the group of anilleros or scholars, who deny all if not given
the two Houses with Charter, French, and even think anyone wants to
see three houses, not to seem quite two.

Some ask who has a lot of religion while having freedom, while illuminated want to stop people from
burning cowl and convents, so that deleted nests not afraid that the birds return. I have both here
and there and I found roughness is not easy to soften, and antagonisms can not be beat. Martinez
de la Rosa Toreno, Burgos and refuse to masquerade as much as revolution, always agrees Palafox
with those of Calvo de Rozas, and Calvo de Rozas, together with Flores Estrada, has made a templadita
constitution. They want both, as good parents, if not preferred, say not count on them for anything.
Romero Alpuente and swear that exalted Constitution no more than the 12 across the globe, and make
them succeed, though he weighs. Come on, this is a menagerie, and I say the outbreak should
war and great danger might come to that then come together and touching so many wills to an
agreement on the final constitution, but had seven cameras and four bedrooms.

- The sovereign nation - said ayacucho speak speaking as Solon - will decide in its day best suited.
A free people is not wrong.

- With statements taken from the Gazettes, friend Rufete, low achievers. I see that the divisions
are deep, that the Liberal Party, being scattered and persecuted, not already have a fixed idea
common and nothing. The army, which before was a friend of the Constitution of 12, now goes
to I have, and it is realistic to count on Spain and Llauder tempered. However, in view of this confusion,
is not patriotic attempt reconciliation of all who hate tyranny? What do you think, Salvador,
is not patriotic, very patriotic?

- I feel so patriotic as possible
- said the questioning.

- I know my country, I know my countrymen,
I pressed different keys conspiracy times, I know the value of these
ideas, insignificant next to the value of passion, I know well that
the politicians of our land are almost always governed envy, and most
of them have an idea, just because the neighbor across the street
has the opposite idea.

- Pessimistic you - Aviraneta said severely.

Then he raised his finger to his mouth with a solemn air, and rose with a sign ordered his two friends
to follow him, which they did willingly Rufete and Savior, one by discipline of conspiracy and
one out of curiosity. Going through a little door with the counter was, went to a small room dark
and narrow, formed in the angled hole the staircase leading to terulias. A dilapidated bank
offered very hard and not very clean seat to the three individuals, and some coffee company dábanle
a long beak, empty boxes, huge brooms and buckets for different uses.

That was the chemical laboratory from which flowed the inventive
mixtures to which he owed his fortune the master of the establishment
(the which, incidentally, was fervientísimo patriot) was where the
growth is checked rations of milk, thank God created water, there
were made from various substances European and Asian Mocha coffee,
and there the pounds of sugar became arrobas from night to morning,
the same as a quidam becomes minister.

They sat in what looked more like niche that room, and as they had no light, were not seen
from outside and could see all that from the coffee went up to the highlands.

- Here we can talk comfortably - said Gipuzkoa - and explain my idea and no one knowing. To remedy
the serious evil that formerly indicated, I have determined to establish a joint secret ....

-
I thought that - Salvador said interrupting her laugh the exordium of his friend's grave -. In
that we had to stop.

- Shut up, do not judge what you do not know yet .... A secret society called The Elizabethan or
Elizabethan.

- I insist on my view that the Patriots call Elizabethan - ayacucho said, demonstrating his accent and
his hand stiffness strongly the importance he attached to the baptism of planned society.

- The name must be short and simple.

- We have the Mason on the ground - said Salvador - with its ridiculous
mysteries, their formulas and folly.

- No, no, son, there are no
mysteries.

- "Not initiation, or towers, or East?

...

- Not at all.

- "Not special vocabulary, or aprons?

- Nothing, nothing.

-
No more than the oath of intentionally submit to the sovereignty of
the nation - said Rufete.

- Here is all current.

No mystery. The partnership will work in silence, but without formula Masonic and call us by our
names, although the acts and documents adopted conventional sign
to designate them.

- So the company is already operating?

- Is being
formed.

We have not had a mass meeting of members .... How Many in the list, dear Rufete?

- Three hundred and twenty and one - said Ayacucho, who apparently played the roles of secretary.

- There has not been anything yet, has not gone to any commissioner
provinces.

It takes one confidence and clever, going to Paris and London come
to terms with the emigrants who left by and with people living abroad,
and because I can not name name them.

- Ya ... and this go-between
is needed ....

- Correveidile not, but agent, that agent is needed
you.

- Well, I swear - Salvador said the jovial way - that if or
Elizabethan society Elizabethan Patriots, as claimed by Mr. ... and
I figure that it intends to reason ....

- The idea of ​​patriotism
- Rufete said unable to contain himself - is so fundamental, to be
take charge of all denominations, in order to save more and more on
people's minds.

- Well, he said - he went the other - if the company
hopes to expand and prosper I be your agent, the trial will end without
all the fruits that the country and you expect it.

Aviraneta mused, her cheek resting on his hand.

At every instant one heard the footsteps of climbing the ladder 7,
and as this was weak and was so close to the heads of all three subjects,
it seemed that they came over the house whenever a patriot would climb
the upper rooms.

- Damn! - Aviraneta said on the occasion coming
up three, four lads getting more noise altar boys in loud ringing
day -.

That's who spoil everything with their pranks.

Now the cute little angels, instead of sucking, are given in Flower
to play in the Masons and Carbonaro, and between jokes and laughter
are above their Cameras of honor and Horn, which makes several masquerades,
which must be reported to the police.

They are almost all little boys want to make more noise than studying.

And what's speeches Yours! Is that a brood of speakers, if I mistake not, has to give Spain more rants
that will Castilla chickpeas.

- These birds singing - Monsalud said
laughing - always come before the storms policy, announced his angelic
trills.

It is a phenomenon observed in the storm past and will repeat, do not doubt you, in those to come,
and so we will always that any policy of a progressive transformation is preceded by large
blooms children wisdom and speeches in the classroom.

- For great
will be the transformation - Aviraneta said - if it is to judge so
this bunch of poults screams .... Santa Monica, how many ups now,
and what have peak!

That voice ... you hear what so admirable body: it González Bravo,
a young man terrorist smarter than Cardona and with more venom than
a cobra .... But back to our case, we, in founding the Elizabethan
society, we aim to unify the thinking liberals and bring the army
into a common idea is a common precursor.

- The army is deeply divided
- Salvador said - because I know that the apostolic camp or pug, as
he now called, has recently made major acquisitions in the Royal Guard.

-
The military is liberal - said Rufete, which can not be silent any
longer took the floor with a crash on the first opportunity -.

The army is composed of free men they love the most perfect of codes and hate tyranny. Tell
Constitution, and the army respond Constitution.

And taking a little behind the hat, which should be shako of the inverted jar, put more yellow
and accompanied his facial alteration of these patriotic words:

- Many speak of the army without knowing it, and I, you know, I belong
to him, that I glory belong to him, I say that with the exception
of half a dozen of traitors, we are all liberalism, here and in America.

I've been in America, gentlemen, I have fought in those Colossal battles
of Chuquisaca and Cochabamba, and I can say that nothing we consoled
our deprivation and work like talking about the Constitution, to think
about it and write it our flags to bend the knee to the bravest Indians.

I remember well that after of the famous expedition of Jujuí, we got
the news of the triumph of the Constitution in Cabezas de San Juan,
and we went crazy with joy.

Wanted, or that we bring to Spain or take us beyond the blessed Code, and may not be neither
one thing nor the other, celebrate with parties, dances, poems and
snacks that great event.

The joy was general. Some we proclaim the draft Constitution in Peru but opposed Maroto traitor.
The free America wanted to adopt the system, but iron did not want
traitors and blood, and I wonder now what I've always wondered: who
is responsible for that lose the tremendous battle of Ayacucho?

Who? ...

- That question, dear Rufete - watching with disgust Aviraneta noted
that the historical muse his secretary was soaring too much - he has
missed his chance.

Soon we care know who did worst in America. As for the army, we know that is mostly liberal,
but you yourself have spoken of traitors, traitors were in America, and also in Spain.

- Here I have the list - said promptly Rufete doing besides taking
a role.

- No, you do not remove the list.

Nor do we care so much now .... Our company already has a brilliant civilian contingent of
characters.

- Wait a minute - stirring Rufete insisted their roles - here it is.

- No .... With a hundred thousand Palitroques! also we need now the list of Elizabethan. Sheathed
you their lists, man. What I want is to bring to our ranks this good friend, give a commission that
will play nicely.

Salvador made repeated head flags.

- We'll see - said Gipuzkoa -. Harder rocks have broken me. Do you have jobs?

- Those of my interests, not many.

- It is true that most are rich, bad business! Have you married?

- No.

- Is not ambition a high position?

- Do not aspire to anything higher than the bank, and what they call popular aura bothers me
more than the sadness of being alone.

- Yet - Aviraneta said - I think you will conquer.

And then stopped. Would willingly shed at the time of their services Rufete secretary, full
of lists to be alone with Monsalud and speak frankly and discovered Well known to the wily conspirator
had expressed his idea of ​​a sick so enigmatic. But Rufete not move, and the dubious clarity
came in the fourth review was amusing their lists of traitors and their lists of Elizabethans.

-VII-

They
were still, therefore, the boring one, the other coming up with reasons to dismiss the Ayacucho
and flowing the third mode of passing a name of one role to another, when he entered the coffee a
cavalry commander, making the saber creeping, with heel spurs and big bang, that it seemed as
if a squadron had assaulted the facility. He wore boots mud and dust on the suit, stating therein,
as well as informality that went from table to table making news, who had just returned from
an expedition or perhaps of a battlefield. Was D. Rafael pseudocyst, exalted patriot first,
then indefinite then prosecuted and convicted conspirator gallows, but pardoned again and admitted
to the service through the influence of powerful relatives. After satisfy the curiosity of coffee,
and ran up, and upon entering the stairwell called his Aviraneta from its cache. Entered pseudocyst,
Salvador recognized, embraced, but had gained much good man tell
what he knew, who could not wait for the end of greetings, spoke thus:

-
We have already caught!

We have good hunting!

- What? What was it? ... "Volunteers scoured realistic?

- Yes, and half a dozen like this soon left the Nation sacristanes
clean .... You know you who went to the Bassa column heading to pursue
the lifting of eaglets Villaverde commanded by Colonel Campos traitor
.... At first we did to do ... that here, over there .... Total, gentlemen,
five leagues Alares them Navahermosa surprised praying the rosary,
I copamos ... did not escape one for seed servers.

- Do they shot
to?

- No orders to both.

The Government is conciliatory, or other pastry man, and one hand
has other disciplines and the plaster.

As I am not fond of walking with butter case of those people, I would have given them all a
little gun marrow.

On the other neighborhood are better than here .... But now is not
to shoot, they'll do when we caught underneath.

Overall, we brought them side by side, and the rascal is so cowardly Campos they began to mourn,
and no one asked it revealed all the ille diebus Carlist Madrid meeting, citing names one by
one.

At this time the traitor will be vomited all accusations to the police
and walk and doing prison.

Middle Madrid will warm to jail tonight.

I have found in the Puerta del Sol to a squad, do not lie, yes, a
police squad that went to the streets of Bethlehem, where it seems
there is a maximum council subdeacons with a knife and stole guerrillas.

Total, gentlemen, we have looked the Bassa, and tonight will be aired
many burrows.

With living Abur angelica and Gentlemen, I'm going up to dinner.

-
And I put the uniform on and run to the barracks - said rising hurriedly
Rufete -.

Is easy to alter the public peace tonight.

 Can anything be clearer or better
connected than this?

PHIL.  And are not you too of opinion, that God knew all things from eternity?

HYL.  I am.

PHIL.  Consequently they always had a being in the Divine intellect.

HYL.  This I acknowledge.

PHIL.  By your own confession, therefore, nothing is new, or begins to be, in respect of the
mind of God. 

Doña Inés, quite angry, replied yet:

- Abreme. Will I regret you trust me? What mockery is this?

- Forgive me, forgive me - Juanita said with a pleading voice and sweet -. You are my godmother,
my protector and I do not want nor should I tease you. No doubt that it is what I do. Shut up,
by God. Be patient. Look and see without speaking. Shut up. I hear
noise. Our man has entered home. And climb the ladder. Hush! If he
suspects that someone here will give a scandal and make a nonsense. I understand. The affection is not something removable.
And I think I feel a certain interest in you and I would not want to see you unhappy. Behave
well, and we'll see.

This tone of protection, so unlike the state of both extremely shocked Salvador; but his surprise
and alarm the point when Navarro went up after taking a while palms
hand over the fire, went to his brother and him on the face of those
hands burned as iron plate, said slowly:

- Let me end this great
season, and then see.

Salvador said nothing. He suspected that his brother's head was a monstrous idea, and would not
pursue the idea, fearing to see the sad suspicion confirmed. Leaving that was scorched hands
again, approached the window to see the snowfall, which that day
was abundant.

It seemed the world sailing in a sea of ​​infinite swan feathers.

Entered at the time the father died of cold Zorraquín sat astride a chair, facing the fire, stretching
his feet to the fire. Shortly after the heat of the flame alive forced him to depart. Began to
darken, being at this season shorter afternoon the hope of the poor, and Mrs. Hermenegilda gave birth
to a splendid lamp, competitor winter sun. Closed timber, the four were prepared to lie to the very
long breasts evening, that seemed a century, when it was led to interesting and varied entertainment.
Doña Hermenegilda half was very lightly. That night winding skeins needed thread, and as I had no reel,
prestose, as usual, to supplement the blessed Father Zorraquín. Man was very friendly. The priest
talk that talk, and the lady that unwinds unwinds, it seemed that from the lips of that came
the word, and the skein of his hands the thread, and Doña Hermenegilda was wrapping the interminable
speech, making it a big ball, that could pass for bulky book. The priest spoke, arms and hands
moving slowly swing to come out the string, the ball grew, from apple walnut, apple a pumpkin,
and the two brothers heard and silent, one stationary, the other marking each lap of the yarn
with a tap as the clamps on the edge of the fireplace. Every time the thread slipping, rubbing
with the thumb of the right hand of the priest, Navarro was a blow. It was like the beat of
a hourglass 17. You'd think that four individuals were a mechanism dentate built to talk ball, and
to ovillar seconds. Salvador could have pass through the hourglass shows that human 18, because
his face did not express anything, unless the immutable sadness of a schedule.

What had Zorraquín? Zumalacárregui's exploits, which was the subject bound in Pamplona and Navarre.
The neatness of the good priest is not for imitated here, as he had proposed be in the future historian
of that great war, and sought to gather all the news materials. Taking advantage of it all, just
the fact that the doubtful, and using the historical and anecdotal, an associate elements of
a colossal literary store, fortunately, perished in a fire years later.

Zorraquín related actions, describing places, reproducing the words, giving addresses the tone
and size of speeches to Livy. Whatever, therefore, you could before apprehend,
either immediately or mediately by your senses, or by ratiocination from your senses; whatever
you could perceive, imagine, or understand, remains still with you. If, therefore, the notion
you have of the creation by other Principles be intelligible, you have it still upon mine;
if it be not intelligible, I conceive it to be no notion at all; and so there is no loss of
it. And indeed it seems to me very plain that the supposition of Matter, that is a thing perfectly
unknown and inconceivable, cannot serve to make us conceive anything. And, I hope it need not
be proved to you that if the existence of Matter doth not make the creation conceivable, the
creation's being without it inconceivable can be no objection against its non-existence.

HYL.  I confess, Philonous, you have almost satisfied me in this point of the creation.

PHIL.  I would fain know why you are not quite satisfied. You tell me indeed of a repugnancy
between the Mosaic history and Immaterialism: but you know not where it lies. Is this reasonable,
Hylas? Can you expect I should solve a difficulty without knowing what it is? But, to pass
by all that, would not a man think you were assured there is no repugnancy between the received
notions of Materialists and the inspired writings?

HYL.  And so I am.

PHIL.  Ought the historical part of Scripture to be understood in a plain obvious sense, or
in a sense which is metaphysical and out of the way?

HYL.  In the plain sense, doubtless.

PHIL.  When Moses speaks of herbs, earth, water, &c. as having been created by God; think you
not the sensible things commonly signified by those words are suggested to every unphilosophical
reader?

HYL.  I cannot help thinking so.

PHIL.  And are not all ideas, or things perceived by sense, to be denied a real existence by
the doctrine of the Materialist?

HYL.  This I have already acknowledged.

PHIL. Separáronse in
the most cordial at the Inn of the Dragon, and D. Benigno, faded and lame, he went to his home
with a speed that allowed his detestable career, while searching Salvador where to stay. A
few days later found ourselves installed in their own room he rented in Calle del Duque de
Alba, not far from D. Felicísimo Butcher, of most happy remembrance. In Madrid did not find
any new development, since it deserves the name the fury with which everyone s uprising brewing
sedition. Brazilian infantas conspired with unparalleled impudence; realistic volunteers conspired,
aided by the crowd of monks and clerics bad avenues with the idea of ​​losing their omnipotence
conspired sacristanes nuns and many military family that had been made bishops, and not missing
his humorous side this national troupe, also waved towards D. Carlos many men who had been rabid
Jacobin democratic and called the three years of the second season entitled constitutional.
Before the system had shouted and now yearned for the rights of immemorial sovereignty in its
fullness.

Salvador also heard the absurdities of the vulgar, who had been led to believe that the King
would not lived and that this good man who went by car to ride was the embalmed corpse of Ferdinand
VII. For a simple mechanism, the Neapolitan, who was beside him, made him move his hands and
head in greeting. And with a straw-filled King was cheating on this heroic nation!

Saw a change of ministers based on the October 16 seemed a bit damaged of liberalism, since
the Court government wanted a bittersweet absolutely contented to and reconcile all the day through
the night, something actually more difficult to roast butter. Also could see the cancellation
of the famous codicil ceremony that mocked the Carlist and heard telling the flight Calomarde
monk dress, and the excesses of the Bishop of Leon, which, as an Indian chief arrogant and
unable to rouse the kingdom, he put his arms diocese, giving the
command of volunteers realistic to the Immaculate Conception.

Other learned and saw many things that are not for referring to the light. Their relationships
with people of various kinds will tell you everything. Pipaón, D. Felicísimo Butcher and the Marquis
de Falfán made no mystery of the apostolic plans and Genara, raging sectarian system fair means
or of the settlement, was the happiest body can imagine the thoughts
Mr. Zea beating of that ruling or seemed to rule the ship (the ship
ever!) plus close to the obstacles that the desired port.

Genara had settled in his old house, striking three years before the gathering to concurred tender
and political writers mature, but in the winter of 1833 did not open the doors of that happy
home for the first poet to come to the province charged tragedies, nor for the Italian tenor,
or for lawyers began to speakers born in classrooms with a freshness to some extent dire.
The circle was much more close friendships and greater choice, thus winning account of the house.
And here it is interesting that the lady had completely lost his love of poetry lyric (that there
is nothing durable in the world), and therefore if the prisoner had already de Cuéllar as clouds
of yesteryear. He was indeed a character little purpose for the record in their affections. It
is not known if this season we're referring to was released Genara preference or sympathy for
any of the other liberal arts, or by artillery and sailing, as stated. Lacking definite information,
we decline to say anything; that in doubtful cases is worth more to comply with the general good,
and sends the moral of the story and Christian charity.

D. Luis Fernández de Córdova, militarily brilliant, passed, when he came to Berlin to take charge
Embassy of Portugal, long hours at home Genara. Would also, though not very Frequently, D. Francisco
Javier de Burgos y Martínez de la Rosa. Regulars was a young Granada official named Narvaez,
lively genius, ceceoso, quarrelsome and expeditious. But the person most worthy of mention among
those who visited the beautiful lady was a Jesuit Imperial college, called the Father Gracian,
a man of great piety and prayer. Some said that the friendship of the good friar with Genara was going
to convert this, or is your way into the good Catholic. Others declared that they had noticed in her remnants
of bigotry; but whatever it wants, the truth is that the intentions
of Father Gracian were highly profitable, because (let's say once)
had proposed to reconcile the lady with her husband.

That Pipaón visited almost daily to his old friend and compatriot no what to say. Moreover,
His Excellency D. Juan Bragas had much sympathy with the Jesuit Gracian. Both talked seriously
stunning of the affairs of State and Church, deploring much the warmth of beliefs that hurt
both the Spanish society at the time and concluded that they should come forward with better ones
in the nation to march on the road piety, gently grazed by the ministers of the altar. As much interested
Gracian by his friends and wanted to take all possible benefits to the heart of Christian
families took to heart the realization of marriage with Micaelita
Panties, draft already Headlines in the previous book.

Salvador was accompanying Pipaón sometimes Genara house, they ate together three and when they
were Monsalud and thanks also spoke at length on the State and the Church. One day, after
talking with him, asked the Jesuit reports to the lady of the house
on that unknown friend, perhaps to see if he could reconcile with
someone, because the desire of good disciple of St. Ignatius was reconciliation.

Genara said

- If you want to win the crown of a good peacemaker, make you a friend of my husband.

- Do not you want it? - Gracian asked slyly.

- No good .... Is enmity
dating from the war with the French.

Both are stubborn, proud, and perhaps in his youth befall any of
those things that always cause for rivalry among men ....

- Some
women ....

- May be, may be that this has been - she said calmly
pulling indifference.

Anything else said about this, but we do not care yet, and still more urgent following the
steps of the person alluded lady and the priest, going after him without delay. Some days we saw
him enter the house of D. Felicísimo Butcher, who still had some scores. The agent received
as received to anyone with whom he has made a very lucrative business, and making him sit at his
side gave him pats on the shoulder and up ventured to tell any of
the tasty little thing Carlist conspiracy.

One morning, entering Butcher house, found the ladder to a colonel in army friend. Was D. Thomas Zumalacárregui.
Was accompanied by the Count de Negri, and this made him understand that the brave Biscayan
previously resistant to the blandishments of prudish people, had been won at last. They greeted
each other and moved on. He opened the door table. Al stepped into the cat, who escaped mayando,
then, because of the darkness of the dilapidated corridors, met with Dona Maria del Sagrario,
who dropped to his shock hands a enormísimo bowl of porridge. He put the fuss was mistress, and therefore
noise alarmose D. Very happy, to venture out of their niche asking if he entered the house
a crowd of Christines. Salvador melt-in excuses, and as he approached the wall, the black clothes
manchósele such So like a miller. When shaken, not without comment with some phrases that rudimentary
laundering of the walls, there were tripping over one of the beams that supported the house
and found fragile that the whole factory was shaking and falling chunks of ceiling plaster,
as if between the upper timber load step ran warring armies of mice.

For finally came to shake hands with Butcher and came together in the office.

- It seems that enters a storm in my house - said the old man standing
in your niche -.

And what such? Did you find the stairs to Zumalacárregui and the
Count?

Good military good diplomat, hee, hee ...

- Zumalacárregui is a good buy - responded Salvador -. Has value and talent.

- As there are other acquisitions much better yet - Butcher said, rubbing his hands -. How unfortunate
that the Government of Mr. Zea has undertaken the voluntary disarmament realistic? ... Yes,
the phantoms of Castroterreño in Leon and the fool to put offices
in Catalonia Llauder the Government saying they have removed the volunteers
realistic weapons.

Do you believe? Do you think you can remove the sun rays? Hee, hee. And believe the bobbin that
has a pike in Flanders!

... I call this gentleman Zea bobbin, which is a kind of minister embalmed, as the King has become
a King of newsprint.

- The Government will create strong, Mr. Butcher, and seems determined
to throw a slab on the match D. Carlos.

Beware, my friend, now seems to throw them.

- Oh! I fear nothing
for me - said D. Very happy with emphasis, leaning back -.

But we to what is urgent. I know what's coming you today.

- At the same I came yesterday.

- And the day before yesterday and Tuesday and Saturday. Today you have not been in vain. At
last, at last ....

- Did he?

- Yes, Mr. D. Carlos Navarro, our brave friend, arrived last night
of your trip for the kingdom of Navarre and Alava and Vizcaya.

It is a beautiful subject. Whoever said that religious country until the stones have a heart
to throb D. Carlos, to cast pumpkins hands to pick up guns. The bells there, when they play
at Mass say "no more Masons' and date on which the war the men of the earth will be able to conquer
Europe while women conquer the rest of Spain .... Well, very good .... How you To see that gentleman?
I warn you that is hidden.

- No matter: I only talk about family matters. Last summer was the Farm but I could not see, because
he always refused to receive me. Now I will be easier, because You will write two words.

- I will be happy, but I warn you that Mr. D. Carlos is sick liver. It is already has done so
much work! He is a tireless champion of good teachings. Last night he complained of dreadful pains,
and, strange to a man so religious, ji, ji, relied more the demons
that the Blessed Virgin.

If you want to be sure that you want to interview, we'll tell Father Gracian, a Jesuit, excellent
subject that comes here some evenings, and then we usually go to drink chocolate Maroto's house,
where the Father is Carasa .... Well, thanks a friend of Mr. D. Carlos,
and has long been proposed that reconcile him with his wife .... Oh!
is a falcon for the good Father Gracian reconciliations.

- I know.

It is a worthy priest who has the best intentions, and if it fails bring happiness to all mankind
because God does not want .... In conclusion, you entiéndanse and
Father Gracian for me to see Mr. Navarro and talk about an issue that
is not political and only he and I are both interested.

Does he live ...?

- Do not know if I should tell you right now,
before the same Mr. D. Carlos, beautiful person, hee, hee ... before
the same Mr. D. Carlos Navarro to leave for you to display.

And I'll fix it. Come back tomorrow for this home.

After Salvador was, D. Felicísimo wrote a letter in which over after draw three crosses, put
it: A Lady Doña Maria de la Paz Porreno, street of Bethlehem.

-III-

The poor lady almost lived in the same narrowness in 1822, because the removal policies friendly social
and stopped at the door of the house, which was without doubt one of the best museums of fossils
that then existed in Spain. The periods of time prevailing absolutism were to thrive in the house
and plenty of cupboards Porreñanas the same as those prevailing in the vile villain of the
clubs. So in point facilities and supplies the dying Marquis would have ended a disaster like
the empires have been formidable if not come to his aid an industry
that, while is somewhat prosaic, there is something noble for being
associated with hospitality.

The two illustrious As unfortunate ladies chamber to house a respectable gentleman so rich in
seasons, sometimes very long, that the subject spent in Madrid. The treatment was excellent,
good pay, and harmony between the host and the ladies so perfect that the three looked like brothers.
Familiarity enhanced by respect and a dignified simplicity reigned in the silent house seemed
inhabited by shadows.

Well, that is, to what historians know that with modest financial benefits honestísimo acquired
by that environment had renewed the ladies of the unfurnished, although All antiques are preserved,
supported by patches and polished by the time and toilet. Wonderful thing! the hourglass 2 had
returned to walking, but from malice or watchmaker by a mechanical mystery impossible to penetrate,
walked back, and well after midnight was eleven, then ten and so on. Table of Saints of the
Order Dominica had been restored by the same Doña Paz, old man assisted by a skilled carpenter,
clerk and binder, and filler here, goop there, with half a dozen black brushstrokes in the
shadows and a good coat of varnish car across the surface, had been as the day he was born. For
the same style had been saved from complete ruin the polls saints
and the cornucopias, which no longer have their windows but irregular
spots quicksilver seemed a collection of maps.

What is new, it was very humble, was in straw chairs, gingham curtains, hems of mat colors,
but glad the house and his ancient matalotaje. In such a way that ghastly image of yore laughed
in his grave.

By the time we find that again, Doña María de la Paz was coming swiftly apoplectic old age, going to
her with gouty feet, shaky head, shoulders crass and neck. Her hair, however, blacks were kept
the same as the lunar and was pursuing her white hair like liberals, and gave no quarter to
none, being as ruthless with them when they came in droves and could not pull them up for fear
of becoming in the pure hull, outfitting dressed in black so that
no one knew. So when this operation was not done with skill (because
the forces had diminished the view) appeared the temples and forehead
marred with some dark clouds over them Snow glistened mimicking a
wonderful winter landscape. Farther, therefore,
we are not concerned; and thus far you leave things as you found them. Yet still there is something
new in this doctrine. It is plain, I do not now think with the Philosophers; nor yet altogether
with the vulgar. Despite the dead, for work the affection
of Engracia, Millan was the love of Leocadia, the presence of the priest was impressed unpleasantly,
even tougher in his anger toward the man, that wiped with their first loves. Thus no resistance
to dealing with the priest: the opportunity came unceremoniously shot to treat and also understood
it was better with him than his mother, whose goodness there was morning, and shortness of
understanding which would not have, of fixed, fixed. He preferred the risk of a violent scene
with the man, the prospect struggling with weak or passive resistance alone.

- In what I can do for you? - Tirso asked.

- I come from Pepe. Now the glasses are removed and a new light breaks in upon my under
standing. 

Noting that Mrs. Agnes Juanita a bit scared to see it and hear it so savagely biblical continued
smiling

- But do not worry not overtake you. He is not obliged to play in
such extremes will not the river of blood. The image of his brother, who sometimes
It seemed a good man a hypocrite sometimes ambitious, never left his mind, overexcited by sleeplessness.
Thought and soften their fraternal feelings, and mixed up with King threats.


PHIL.

