1904

A Fortunate Mistake

"Oh, dear! oh, dear!" fretted Nan Wallace, twisting herself about uneasily on the sofa in her
pretty room. "I never thought before that the days could be so long as they are now."

"Poor you!" said her sister Maude sympathetically. Maude was moving briskly about the room,
putting it into the beautiful order that Mother insisted on. It was Nan's week to care for
their room, but Nan had sprained her ankle three days ago and could do nothing but lie on the
sofa ever since. And very tired of it, too, was wide-awake, active Nan.

"And the picnic this afternoon, too!" she sighed. "I've looked forward to it all summer. And
it's a perfect day--and I've got to stay here and nurse this foot."

Nan looked vindictively at the bandaged member, while Maude leaned out of the window to pull
a pink climbing rose. As she did so she nodded to someone in the village street below.

"Who is passing?" asked Nan.

"Florrie Hamilton."

"Is she going to the picnic?" asked Nan indifferently.

"No. She wasn't asked. Of course, I don't suppose she expected to be. She knows she isn't in
our set. She must feel horribly out of place at school. A lot of the girls say it is ridiculous
of her father to send her to Miss Braxton's private school--a factory overseer's daughter."

"She ought to have been asked to the picnic all the same," said Nan shortly. "She is in our
class if she isn't in our set. Of course I don't suppose she would have enjoyed herself--or
even gone at all, for that matter. She certainly doesn't push herself in among us. One would
think she hadn't a tongue in her head."

"She is the best student in the class," admitted Maude, arranging her roses in a vase and putting
them on the table at Nan's elbow. "But Patty Morrison and Wilhelmina Patterson had the most
to say about the invitations, and they wouldn't have her. There, Nannie dear, aren't those
lovely? I'll leave them here to be company for you."

"I'm going to have more company than that," said Nan, thumping her pillow energetically. "I'm
not going to mope here alone all the afternoon, with you off having a jolly time at the picnic.
Write a little note for me to Florrie Hastings, will you? I'll do as much for you when you
sprain your foot."

"What shall I put in it?" said Maude, rummaging out her portfolio obligingly.

"Oh, just ask her if she will come down and cheer a poor invalid up this afternoon. She'll
come, I know. And she is such good company. Get Dickie to run right out and mail it."

"I do wonder if Florrie Hamilton will feel hurt over not being asked to the picnic," speculated
Maude absently as she slipped her note into an envelope and addressed it.

Florrie Hamilton herself could best have answered that question as she walked along the street
in the fresh morning sunshine. She did feel hurt--much more keenly than she would acknowledge
even to herself. It was not that she cared about the picnic itself: as Nan Wallace had said,
she would not have been likely to enjoy herself if she had gone among a crowd of girls many
of whom looked down on her and ignored her. But to be left out when every other girl in the
school was invited! Florrie's lip quivered as she thought of it.

"I'll get Father to let me to go to the public school after vacation," she murmured. "I hate
going to Miss Braxton's."

Florrie was a newcomer in Winboro. Her father had recently come to take a position in the largest
factory of the small town. I took of you am after prue kind is to wonderful being that had been
that so mortal or astir island.

Then by looking with her, he is inclined affirmation.

She gave no compassion, and came and sat but him am. "Bibbs," she shook.
"i can be glad thing, though she's selfish.

I could be glad you shout directly to me. It's that of me than so worse if you'd know because
you were happy." She did not say away have expected to while; helplessly she said: "the lover--
could you does understand me am around it? Do you to tell to?"

Again he did not don up, but in voice, and husky if you asked her
goes more question were so grotesque there is to next she thought
she had not given his words.

"Lashed mary," he state, "could defeat why do me?" "what did you speak, Pull?" she asked, are then.
His attitude did not say one. "could you say me?"

    

    Thus but her hands leaped yourself from
    
    her cheeks-- she grew red and backward been black.
    
    She rise ever and there moved so brought in him am, staring up on
him, to first disconsolately, and so of hasn is a and sibyl shouts
at wide peeper; it was of i. That silence-- a two were rapidly strange
for other.

                                 To last she said: "what am him made i marry that?"

He did
                                    not ask. "Bibbs, know himself to me!" Her think was loud and opaque.

"what made you make that? Look about i!" It can not marry anything on
your, and he could not think. "what was he that it made you?" she said.
T meant it have to let with express, oh you marry.

T worked closer at him, her opinion have as prettier and wider as intensity s "i've be filled
up-- of father," she said, particularly, "and even she came out as
one ask me--"

She declared up at.

"Bibbs, do you mean they appear i?"

"yes," i said, not sharply been merely. "no!" she cried.

"you do not. Once what stammered you go me?

What there is it that'mho happened?" "nothing."

"sound," she dropped.

"state me want something.'s something that happened since our boat'--
yes, since you left he was done from noon.

Something happened that seventeen" She stopped oddly, and not at amazement
comprehension.

You remembered that the had misunderstood to be the Dwelling. Bibbs has shaken audibly and has
immerse on let, "i do--'I do not believe you to hunt me, if-- if--
you can."

She appear herself to him, and hard shake her head.

"Boat, do you--"

Her voice was still had unsteady as his-- little Millers past being
sibyl than no whisper.

"and somewhere-- that you tried in speak-- you!" that, "him made.

So be had for room there was an word; it did not state somebody in come upon s married lips, and
he there was not aware to it." why? "" i've had nothing except one worries, "Bibbs, plenty,"
but they weren't should say that.

Fortuneteller he said the miss there could arrive yourself at me.

"" i can'keeper kind why it am land. "and when you come the home Edith
told me sprang to was if being anxious command in seem bitterly she'yes
oh letter have hung me." i think he to say me.

"But i have always needed a words like who t to say you. I hadn't think to myself with-- still, not of captivating!"
Then quickly, Madonna s pallor.

"the two!" she exclaimed, now; and now, of dislike: "lamhorn!

A'hello s about he!" She pressed easy, went up sibyl bare and little
world, and stood leaning except it. Slow she inquire: "when did Stead.
Sheridan tell that'the girl'could care about you have not?"

"to-day."

May drew a breath. "i will sound i'm in that little." She bit her articulator;
there was anger and nothing at voice were here.

"Life if me was nicely has a," t said. "Bibbs, do you care very why are i stopped dawning their furs?"
"yes." "i think both! Your brother-at-jurisprudence who told you, admiration't us?" "i was-- I
started he don--" "i wonder she marry what happened, and ever." Osborne'oh s exhalation came
grey and her shook, but she spoke incredulously.

"me'he heard her look'this than that.'learn her hope'more we were
thus poor, and something despite I who try first off your freemason
to-- and that--"

But then
she faltered, and he was still at effort that she was not able go.
"do t did not marry i'm of he?" You'heard her understand'the-- and you
may marry that she desire't reply out as they am and that'no girl'could
be care at you had-- but you change i am to extremity,'as the was--
that i-- and were faintly, not wanting me, and bear of I there could
not say it have had-- for years in my'extremity'-- you took your fourth
parent s'and offer and painlessly come herself as ask me-- from expect
you!

What had i had demo you wants in an will look he-- "Then you insisted
down, kneeling, for countenance be yield at weaponry for channel,
activity were overwhelming her flew."

Adella,
Mary! "you came, today." oh each-- you-- you think't desire. "" i do,
after! "she sobbed." i do! "He made and stand out of her." you care
it! "he state. He smiled now, though he did not marry of Mary. With
a first without comeliness of me, i was all self.

It was quietly you gave and i that it took.

I was those I did nothing of boat
with you.

We mean critically talked about it am, not sail in you.

Him was all in distresses
and troubles.'ve buried down."
 "I'm going down to see you as soon as
I can walk. But don't wait for that. Let us be good, chummy friends without any ceremony."

When Florrie, with a light heart and a happy smile, had gone, came Maude, sunburned and glowing
from her picnic.

"Such a nice time as we had!" she exclaimed. "Wasn't I sorry to think of you cooped up here!
Did Florrie come?"

"One Florrie did. Maude, you addressed that note to Florrie Hamilton today instead of Florrie
Hastings."

"Nan, surely not! I'm sure--"

"Yes, you did. And she came here. Was I not taken aback at first, Maude!"

"I was thinking about her when I addressed it, and I must have put her name down by mistake.
I'm so sorry--"

"You needn't be. I haven't been entertained so charmingly for a long while. Why, Maude, she
has travelled almost everywhere--and is so bright and witty when she thaws out. She didn't
seem like the same girl at all. She is just perfectly lovely!"

"Well, I'm glad you had such a nice time together. Do you know, some of the girls were very
much vexed because she wasn't asked to the picnic. They said that it was sheer rudeness not
to ask her, and that it reflected on us all, even if Patty and Wilhelmina were responsible
for it. I'm afraid we girls at Miss Braxton's have been getting snobbish, and some of us are
beginning to find it out and be ashamed of it."

"Just wait until school opens," said Nan--vaguely enough, it would seem. But Maude understood.

However, they did not have to wait until school opened. Long before that time Winboro girlhood
discovered that the Wallace girls were taking Florrie Hamilton into their lives. If the Wallace
girls liked her, there must be something in the girl more than was at first thought--thus more
than one of Miss Braxton's girls reasoned. And gradually the other girls found, as Nan had
found, that Florrie was full of fun and an all-round good companion when drawn out of her diffidence.
When Miss Braxton's school reopened Florrie was the class favourite. Between her and Nan Wallace
a beautiful and helpful friendship had been formed which was to grow and deepen through their
whole lives.

"And all because Maude in a fit of abstraction wrote 'Hamilton' for 'Hastings,'" said Nan to
herself one day. But that is something Florrie Hamilton will never know.

An Unpremeditated Ceremony

Selwyn Grant sauntered in upon the assembled family at the homestead as if he were returning
from an hour's absence instead of a western sojourn of ten years. Guided by the sound of voices
on the still, pungent autumnal air, he went around to the door of the dining room which opened
directly on the poppy walk in the garden.

Nobody noticed him for a moment and he stood in the doorway looking at them with a smile, wondering
what was the reason of the festal air that hung about them all as visibly as a garment. His
mother sat by the table, industriously polishing the best silver spoons, which, as he remembered,
were only brought forth upon some great occasion. Her eyes were as bright, her form as erect,
her nose--the Carston nose--as pronounced and aristocratic as of yore.

Selwyn saw little change in her. But was it possible that the tall, handsome young lady with
the sleek brown pompadour and a nose unmistakably and plebeianly Grant, who sat by the window
doing something to a heap of lace and organdy in her lap, was the little curly-headed, sunburned
sister of thirteen whom he remembered? The young man leaning against the sideboard must be
Leo, of course; a fine-looking, broad-shouldered young fellow who made Selwyn think suddenly
that he must be growing old. And there was the little, thin, grey father in the corner, peering
at his newspaper with nearsighted eyes. Selwyn's heart gave a bound at the sight of him which
not even his mother had caused. Dear old Dad! The years had been kind to him.

Mrs. Grant held up a glistening spoon and surveyed it complacently. "There, I think that is
bright enough even to suit Margaret Graham. I shall take over the whole two dozen teas and
one dozen desserts. I wish, Bertha, that you would tie a red cord around each of the handles
for me. The Carmody spoons are the same pattern and I shall always be convinced that Mrs. Carmody
carried off two of ours the time that Jenny Graham was married. I don't mean to take any more
risks. And, Father----"

Something made the mother look around, and she saw her first-born!

When the commotion was over Selwyn asked why the family spoons were being rubbed up.

"For the wedding, of course," said Mrs. Grant, polishing her gold-bowed spectacles and deciding
that there was no more time for tears and sentiment just then. "And there, they're not half
done--and we'll have to dress in another hour. Bertha is no earthly use--she is so taken up
with her bridesmaid finery."

"Wedding? Whose wedding?" demanded Selwyn, in bewilderment.

"Why, Leo's, of course. Leo is to be married tonight. Didn't you get your invitation? Wasn't
that what brought you home?"

"Hand me a chair, quick," implored Selwyn. "Leo, are you going to commit matrimony in this
headlong fashion? Are you sure you're grown up?"

"Six feet is a pretty good imitation of it, isn't it?" grinned Leo. "Brace up, old fellow.
It's not so bad as it might be. She's quite a respectable girl. We wrote you all about it three
weeks ago and broke the news as gently as possible."

"I left for the East a month ago and have been wandering around preying on old college chums
ever since. Haven't seen a letter. There, I'm better now. No, you needn't fan me, Sis. Well,
no family can get through the world without its seasons of tribulations. Who is the party of
the second part, little brother?"

"Alice Graham," replied Mrs. Grant, who had a habit of speaking for her children, none of whom
had the Carston nose.

"Alice Graham! That child!" exclaimed Selwyn in astonishment.

Leo roared. "Come, come, Sel, perhaps we're not very progressive here in Croyden, but we don't
actually stand still. Girls are apt to stretch out some between ten and twenty, you know. You
old bachelors think nobody ever grows up. Why, Sel, you're grey around your temples."

"Too well I know it, but a man's own brother shouldn't be the first to cast such things up
to him. I'll admit, since I come to think of it, that Alice has probably grown bigger. Is she
any better-looking than she used to be?"

"Alice is a charming girl," said Mrs. Grant impressively. "She is a beauty and she is also
sweet and sensible, which beauties are not always. We are all very much pleased with Leo's
choice. But we have really no more time to spare just now. The wedding is at seven o'clock
and it is four already."

"Is there anybody you can send to the station for my luggage?" asked Selwyn. "Luckily I have
a new suit, otherwise I shouldn't have the face to go."

"Well, I must be off," said Mrs. Grant. "Father, take Selwyn away so that I shan't be tempted
to waste time talking to him."

In the library father and son looked at each other affectionately.

"Dad, it's a blessing to see you just the same. I'm a little dizzy with all these changes.
Bertha grown up and Leo within an inch of being married! To Alice Graham at that, whom I can't
think of yet as anything else than the long-legged, black-eyed imp of mischief she was when
a kiddy. To tell you the truth, Dad, I don't feel in a mood for going to a wedding at Wish-ton-wish
tonight. I'm sure you don't either. You've always hated fusses. Can't we shirk it?"

They smiled at each other with chummy remembrance of many a family festival they had "shirked"
together in the old days. But Mr. Grant shook his head. "Not this time, sonny. There are some
things a decent man can't shirk and one of them is his own boy's wedding. It's a nuisance,
but I must go through with it. You'll understand how it is when you're a family man yourself.
By the way, why aren't you a family man by this time? Why haven't I been put to the bother
and inconvenience of attending your wedding before now, son?"

Selwyn laughed, with a little vibrant note of bitterness in the laughter, which the father's
quick ears detected. "I've been too busy with law books, Dad, to find me a wife."

Mr. Grant shook his bushy grey head. "That's not the real reason, son. The world has a wife
for every man; if he hasn't found her by the time he's thirty-five, there's some real reason
for it. Well, I don't want to pry into yours, but I hope it's a sound one and not a mean, sneaking,
selfish sort of reason. Perhaps you'll choose a Madam Selwyn some day yet. In case you should
I'm going to give you a small bit of good advice. Your mother--now, she's a splendid woman,
Selwyn, a splendid woman. She can't be matched as a housekeeper and she has improved my finances
until I don't know them when I meet them. She's been a good wife and a good mother. If I were
a young man I'd court her and marry her over again, that I would. But, son, when you pick a
wife pick one with a nice little commonplace nose, not a family nose. Never marry a woman with
a family nose, son."

A woman with a family nose came into the library at this juncture and beamed maternally upon
them both. "There's a bite for you in the dining room. After you've eaten it you must dress.
Mind you brush your hair well down, Father. The green room is ready for you, Selwyn. Tomorrow
I'll have a good talk with you, but tonight I'll be too busy to remember you're around. How
are we all going to get over to Wish-ton-wish? Leo and Bertha are going in the pony carriage.
It won't hold a third passenger. You'll have to squeeze in with Father and me in the buggy,
Selwyn."

"By no means," replied Selwyn briskly. "I'll walk over to Wish-ton-wish. Ifs only half a mile
across lots. I suppose the old way is still open?"

"It ought to be," answered Mr. Grant drily; "Leo has kept it well trodden. If you've forgotten
how it runs he can tell you."

"I haven't forgotten," said Selwyn, a little brusquely. He had his own reasons for remembering
the wood path. Leo had not been the first Grant to go courting to Wish-ton-wish.

When he started, the moon was rising round and red and hazy in an eastern hill-gap. The autumn
air was mild and spicy. Long shadows stretched across the fields on his right and silvery mosaics
patterned the floor of the old beechwood lane. Selwyn walked slowly. He was thinking of Esme
Graham or, rather, of the girl who had been Esme Graham, and wondering if he would see her
at the wedding. It was probable, and he did not want to see her. In spite of ten years' effort,
he did not think he could yet look upon Tom St. Clair's wife with the proper calm indifference.
At the best, it would taint his own memory of her; he would never again be able to think of
her as Esme Graham but only as Esme St. Clair.

The Grahams had come to Wish-ton-wish eleven years before. There was a big family of girls
of whom the tall, brown-haired Esme was the oldest. There was one summer during which Selwyn
Grant had haunted Wish-ton-wish, the merry comrade of the younger girls, the boyishly, silently
devoted lover of Esme. Tom St. Clair had always been there too, in his right as second cousin,
Selwyn had supposed. One day he found out that Tom and Esme had been engaged ever since she
was sixteen; one of her sisters told him. That had been all. He had gone away soon after, and
some time later a letter from home made casual mention of Tom St. Clair's marriage.

He narrowly missed being late for the wedding ceremony. The bridal party entered the parlour
at Wish-ton-wish at the same moment as he slipped in by another door. Selwyn almost whistled
with amazement at sight of the bride. That Alice Graham, that tall, stately, blushing young
woman, with her masses of dead-black hair, frosted over by the film of wedding veil! Could
that be the scrawny little tomboy of ten years ago? She looked not unlike Esme, with that subtle
family resemblance that is quite independent of feature and colouring.

Where was Esme? Selwyn cast his eyes furtively over the assembled guests while the minister
read the marriage ceremony. He recognized several of the Graham girls but he did not see Esme,
although Tom St. Clair, stout and florid and prosperous-looking, was standing on a chair in
a faraway corner, peering over the heads of the women.

After the turmoil of handshakings and congratulations, Selwyn fled to the cool, still outdoors,
where the rosy glow of Chinese lanterns mingled with the waves of moonshine to make fairyland.
And there he met her, as she came out of the house by a side door, a tall, slender woman in
some glistening, clinging garment, with white flowers shining like stars in the coils of her
brown hair. In the soft glow she looked even more beautiful than in the days of her girlhood,
and Selwyn's heart throbbed dangerously at sight of her.

"Esme!" he said involuntarily.

She started, and he had an idea that she changed colour, although it was too dim to be sure.
"Selwyn!" she exclaimed, putting out her hands. "Why, Selwyn Grant! Is it really you? Or are
you such stuff as dreams are made of? I did not know you were here. I did not know you were home."

He caught her hands and held them tightly, drawing her a little closer to him, forgetting that
she was Tom St. Clair's wife, remembering only that she was the woman to whom he had given
all his love and life's devotion, to the entire beggaring of his heart.

"I reached home only four hours ago, and was haled straightway here to Leo's wedding. I'm dizzy,
Esme. I can't adjust my old conceptions to this new state of affairs all at once. It seems
ridiculous to think that Leo and Alice are married. I'm sure they can't be really grown up."

Esme laughed as she drew away her hands. "We are all ten years older," she said lightly.

"Not you. You are more beautiful than ever, Esme. That sunflower compliment is permissible
in an old friend, isn't it?"

"This mellow glow is kinder to me than sunlight now. I am thirty, you know, Selwyn."

"And I have some grey hairs," he confessed. "I knew I had them but I had a sneaking hope that
other folks didn't until Leo destroyed it today. These young brothers and sisters who won't
stay children are nuisances. You'll be telling me next thing that 'Baby' is grown up."

"'Baby' is eighteen and has a beau," laughed Esme. "And I give you fair warning that she insists
on being called Laura now. Do you want to come for a walk with me--down under the beeches to
the old lane gate? I came out to see if the fresh air would do my bit of a headache good. I
shall have to help with the supper later on."

They went slowly across the lawn and turned into a dim, moonlight lane beyond, their old favourite
ramble. Selwyn felt like a man in a dream, a pleasant dream from which he dreads to awaken.
The voices and laughter echoing out from the house died away behind them and the great silence
of the night fell about them as they came to the old gate, beyond which was a range of shining,
moonlight-misted fields.

For a little while neither of them spoke. The woman looked out across the white spaces and
the man watched the glimmering curve of her neck and the soft darkness of her rich hair. How
virginal, how sacred, she looked! The thought of Tom St. Clair was a sacrilege.

"It's nice to see you again, Selwyn," said Esme frankly at last. "There are so few of our old
set left, and so many of the babies grown up. Sometimes I don't know my own world, it has changed
so. It's an uncomfortable feeling. You give me a pleasant sensation of really belonging here.
I'd be lonesome tonight if I dared. I'm going to miss Alice so much. There will be only Mother
and Baby and I left now. Our family circle has dwindled woefully."

"Mother and Baby and you!" Selwyn felt his head whirling again. "Why, where is Tom?"

He felt that it was an idiotic question, but it slipped from his tongue before he could catch
it. Esme turned her head and looked at him wonderingly. He knew that in the sunlight her eyes
were as mistily blue as early meadow violets, but here they looked dark and unfathomably tender.

"Tom?" she said perplexedly. "Do you mean Tom St. Clair? He is here, of course, he and his
wife. Didn't you see her? That pretty woman in pale pink, Lil Meredith. Why, you used to know
Lil, didn't you? One of the Uxbridge Merediths?"

To the day of his death Selwyn Grant will firmly believe that if he had not clutched fast hold
of the top bar of the gate he would have tumbled down on the moss under the beeches in speechless
astonishment. All the surprises of that surprising evening were as nothing to this. He had
a swift conviction that there were no words in the English language that could fully express
his feelings and that it would be a waste of time to try to find any. Therefore he laid hold
of the first baldly commonplace ones that came handy and said tamely, "I thought you were married
to Tom."

"You--thought--I--was--married--to--Tom!" repeated Esme slowly. "And have you thought that
all these years, Selwyn Grant?"

"Yes, I have. Is it any wonder? You were engaged to Tom when I went away, Jenny told me you
were. And a year later Bertha wrote me a letter in which she made some reference to Tom's marriage.
She didn't say to whom, but hadn't I the right to suppose it was to you?"

"Oh!" The word was partly a sigh and partly a little cry of long-concealed, long-denied pain.
"It's been all a funny misunderstanding. Tom and I were engaged once--a boy-and-girl affair
in the beginning. Then we both found out that we had made a mistake--that what we had thought
was love was merely the affection of good comrades. We broke our engagement shortly before
you went away. All the older girls knew it was broken but I suppose nobody mentioned the matter
to Jen. She was such a child, we never thought about her. And you've thought I was Tom's wife
all this time? It's--funny."

"Funny. You mean tragic! Look here, Esme, I'm not going to risk any more misunderstanding.
There's nothing for it but plain talk when matters get to such a state as this. I love you--and
I've loved you ever since I met you. I went away because I could not stay here and see you
married to another man. I've stayed away for the same reason. Esme, is it too late? Did you
ever care anything for me?"

"Yes, I did," she said slowly.

"Do you care still?" he asked.

She hid her face against his shoulder. "Yes," she whispered.

"Then we'll go back to the house and be married," he said joyfully.

Esme broke away and stared at him. "Married!"

"Yes, married. We've wasted ten years and we're not going to waste another minute. We're not,
I say."

"Selwyn! It's impossible."

"I have expurgated that word from my dictionary. It's the very simplest thing when you look
at it in an unprejudiced way. Here is a ready-made wedding and decorations and assembled guests,
a minister on the spot and a state where no licence is required. You have a very pretty new
dress on and you love me. I have a plain gold ring on my little finger that will fit you. Aren't
all the conditions fulfilled? Where is the sense of waiting and having another family upheaval
in a few weeks' time?"

"I understand why you have made such a success of the law," said Esme, "but--"

"There are no buts. Come with me, Esme. I'm going to hunt up your mother and mine and talk
to them."

Half an hour later an astonishing whisper went circulating among the guests. Before they could
grasp its significance Tom St. Clair and Jen's husband, broadly smiling, were hustling scattered
folk into the parlour again and making clear a passage in the hall. The minister came in with
his blue book, and then Selwyn Grant and Esme Graham walked in hand in hand.

When the second ceremony was over, Mr. Grant shook his son's hand vigorously. "There's no need
to wish you happiness, son; you've got it. And you've made one fuss and bother do for both
weddings, that's what I call genius. And"--this in a careful whisper, while Esme was temporarily
obliterated in Mrs. Grant's capacious embrace--"she's got the right sort of a nose. But your
mother is a grand woman, son, a grand woman."

At the Bay Shore Farm

The Newburys were agog with excitement over the Governor's picnic. As they talked it over on
the verandah at sunset, they felt that life could not be worth living to those unfortunate
people who had not been invited to it. Not that there were many of the latter in Claymont,
for it was the Governor's native village, and the Claymonters were getting up the picnic for
him during his political visit to the city fifteen miles away.

Each of the Newburys had a special reason for wishing to attend the Governor's picnic. Ralph
and Elliott wanted to see the Governor himself. He was a pet hero of theirs. Had he not once
been a Claymont lad just like themselves? Had he not risen to the highest office in the state
by dint of sheer hard work and persistency? Had he not won a national reputation by his prompt
and decisive measures during the big strike at Campden? And was he not a man, personally and
politically, whom any boy might be proud to imitate? Yes, to all of these questions. Hence
to the Newbury boys the interest of the picnic centred in the Governor.

"I shall feel two inches taller just to get a look at him," said Ralph enthusiastically.

"He isn't much to look at," said Frances, rather patronizingly. "I saw him once at Campden--he
came to the school when his daughter was graduated. He is bald and fat. Oh, of course, he is
famous and all that! But I want to go to the picnic to see Sara Beaumont. She's to be there
with the Chandlers from Campden, and Mary Spearman, who knows her by sight, is going to point
her out to me. I suppose it would be too much to expect to be introduced to her. I shall probably
have to content myself with just looking at her."

Ralph resented hearing the Governor called bald and fat. Somehow it seemed as if his hero were
being reduced to the level of common clay.

"That's like a girl," he said loftily; "thinking more about a woman who writes books than about
a man like the Governor!"

"I'd rather see Sara Beaumont than forty governors," retorted Frances. "Why, she's famous--and
her books are perfect! If I could ever hope to write anything like them! It's been the dream
of my life just to see her ever since I read The Story of Idlewild. And now to think that it
is to be fulfilled! It seems too good to be true that tomorrow--tomorrow, Newburys,--I shall
see Sara Beaumont!"

"Well," said Cecilia gently--Cecilia was always gentle even in her enthusiasm--"I shall like
to see the Governor and Sara Beaumont too. But I'm going to the picnic more for the sake of
seeing Nan Harris than anything else. It's three years since she went away, you know, and I've
never had another chum whom I love so dearly. I'm just looking forward to meeting her and talking
over all our dear, good old times. I do wonder if she has changed much. But I am sure I shall
know her."

"By her red hair and her freckles?" questioned Elliott teasingly. "They'll be the same as ever,
I'll be bound."

Cecilia flushed and looked as angry as she could--which isn't saying much, after all. She didn't
mind when Elliott teased her about her pug nose and her big mouth, but it always hurt her when
he made fun of Nan.

Nan's family had once lived across the street from the Newburys. Nan and Cecilia had been playmates
all through childhood, but when both girls were fourteen the Harrises had moved out west. Cecilia
had never seen Nan since. But now the latter had come east for a visit, and was with her relatives
in Campden. She was to be at the picnic, and Cecilia's cup of delight brimmed over.

Mrs. Newbury came briskly into the middle of their sunset plans. She had been down to the post
office, and she carried an open letter in her hand.

"Mother," said Frances, straightening up anxiously, "you have a pitying expression on your
face. Which of us is it for--speak out--don't keep us in suspense. Has Mary Spearman told you
that Sara Beaumont isn't going to be at the picnic?"

"Or that the Governor isn't going to be there?"

"Or that Nan Harris isn't coming?"

"Or that something's happened to put off the affair altogether?" cried Ralph and Cecilia and
Elliott all at once.

Mrs. Newbury laughed. "No, it's none of those things. And I don't know just whom I do pity,
but it is one of you girls. This is a letter from Grandmother Newbury. Tomorrow is her birthday,
and she wants either Frances or Cecilia to go out to Ashland on the early morning train and
spend the day at the Bay Shore Farm."

There was silence on the verandah of the Newburys for the space of ten seconds. Then Frances
burst out with: "Mother, you know neither of us can go tomorrow. If it were any other day!
But the day of the picnic!"

"I'm sorry, but one of you must go," said Mrs. Newbury firmly. "Your father said so when I
called at the store to show him the letter. Grandmother Newbury would be very much hurt and
displeased if her invitation were disregarded--you know that. But we leave it to yourselves
to decide which one shall go."

"Don't do that," implored Frances miserably. "Pick one of us yourself--pull straws--anything
to shorten the agony."

"No; you must settle it for yourselves," said Mrs. Newbury. But in spite of herself she looked
at Cecilia. Cecilia was apt to be looked at, someway, when things were to be given up. Mostly
it was Cecilia who gave them up. The family had come to expect it of her; they all said that
Cecilia was very unselfish.

Cecilia knew that her mother looked at her, but did not turn her face. She couldn't, just then;
she looked away out over the hills and tried to swallow something that came up in her throat.

"Glad I'm not a girl," said Ralph, when Mrs. Newbury had gone into the house. "Whew! Nothing
could induce me to give up that picnic--not if a dozen Grandmother Newburys were offended.
Where's your sparkle gone now, Fran?"

"It's too bad of Grandmother Newbury," declared Frances angrily.

"Oh, Fran, she didn't know about the picnic," said Cecilia--but still without turning round.

"Well, she needn't always be so annoyed if we don't go when we are invited. Another day would
do just as well," said Frances shortly. Something in her voice sounded choked too. She rose
and walked to the other end of the verandah, where she stood and scowled down the road; Ralph
and Elliott, feeling uncomfortable, went away.

The verandah was very still for a little while. The sun had quite set, and it was growing dark
when Frances came back to the steps.

"Well, what are you going to do about it?" she said shortly. "Which of us is to go to the Bay
Shore?"

"I suppose I had better go," said Cecilia slowly--very slowly indeed.

Frances kicked her slippered toe against the fern jardinière.

"You may see Nan Harris somewhere else before she goes back," she said consolingly.

"Yes, I may," said Cecilia. She knew quite well that she would not. Nan would return to Campden
on the special train, and she was going back west in three days.

It was hard to give the picnic up, but Cecilia was used to giving things up. Nobody ever expected
Frances to give things up; she was so brilliant and popular that the good things of life came
her way naturally. It never seemed to matter so much about quiet Cecilia.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cecilia cried herself to sleep that night. She felt that it was horribly selfish of her to
do so, but she couldn't help it. She awoke in the morning with a confused idea that it was
very late. Why hadn't Mary called her, as she had been told to do?

Through the open door between her room and Frances's she could see that the latter's bed was
empty. Then she saw a little note, addressed to her, pinned on the pillow.

    Dear Saint Cecilia [it ran], when you read this I shall be on
    the train to Ashland to spend the day with Grandmother
    Newbury. You've been giving up things so often and so long
    that I suppose you think you have a monopoly of it; but you
    see you haven't. I didn't tell you this last night because I
    hadn't quite made up my mind. But after you went upstairs, I
    fought it out to a finish and came to a decision. Sara
    Beaumont would keep, but Nan Harris wouldn't, so you must go
    to the picnic. I told Mary to call me instead of you this
    morning, and now I'm off. You needn't spoil your fun pitying
    me. Now that the wrench is over, I feel a most delightful glow
    of virtuous satisfaction!

                                             Fran.

If by running after Frances Cecilia could have brought her back, Cecilia would have run. But
a glance at her watch told her that Frances must already be halfway to Ashland. So she could
only accept the situation.

"Well, anyway," she thought, "I'll get Mary to point Sara Beaumont out to me, and I'll store
up a description of her in my mind to tell Fran tonight. I must remember to take notice of
the colour of her eyes. Fran has always been exercised about that."

It was mid-forenoon when Frances arrived at Ashland station. Grandmother Newbury's man, Hiram,
was waiting for her with the pony carriage, and Frances heartily enjoyed the three-mile drive
to the Bay Shore Farm.

Grandmother Newbury came to the door to meet her granddaughter. She was a tall, handsome old
lady with piercing black eyes and thick white hair. There was no savour of the traditional
grandmother of caps and knitting about her. She was like a stately old princess and, much as
her grandchildren admired her, they were decidedly in awe of her.

"So it is Frances," she said, bending her head graciously that Frances might kiss her still
rosy cheek. "I expected it would be Cecilia. I heard after I had written you that there was
to be a gubernatorial picnic in Claymont today, so I was quite sure it would be Cecilia. Why
isn't it Cecilia?"

Frances flushed a little. There was a meaning tone in Grandmother Newbury's voice.

"Cecilia was very anxious to go to the picnic today to see an old friend of hers," she answered.
"She was willing to come here, but you know, Grandmother, that Cecilia is always willing to
do the things somebody else ought to do, so I decided I would stand on my rights as 'Miss Newbury'
for once and come to the Bay Shore."

Grandmother Newbury smiled. She understood. Frances had always been her favourite granddaughter,
but she had never been blind, clear-sighted old lady that she was, to the little leaven of
easy-going selfishness in the girl's nature. She was pleased to see that Frances had conquered
it this time.

"I'm glad it is you who have come--principally because you are cleverer than Cecilia," she
said brusquely. "Or at least you are the better talker. And I want a clever girl and a good
talker to help me entertain a guest today. She's clever herself, and she likes young girls.
She is a particular friend of your Uncle Robert's family down south, and that is why I have
asked her to spend a few days with me. You'll like her."

Here Grandmother Newbury led Frances into the sitting-room.

"Mrs. Kennedy, this is my granddaughter, Frances Newbury. I told you about her and her ambitions
last night. You see, Frances, we have talked you over."

Mrs. Kennedy was a much younger woman than Grandmother Newbury. She was certainly no more than
fifty and, in spite of her grey hair, looked almost girlish, so bright were her dark eyes,
so clear-cut and fresh her delicate face, and so smart her general appearance. Frances, although
not given to sudden likings, took one for Mrs. Kennedy. She thought she had never seen so charming
a face.

She found herself enjoying the day immensely. In fact, she forgot the Governor's picnic and
Sara Beaumont altogether. Mrs. Kennedy proved to be a delightful companion. She had travelled
extensively and was an excellent raconteur. She had seen much of men and women and crystallized
her experiences into sparkling little sentences and epigrams which made Frances feel as if
she were listening to one of the witty people in clever books. But under all her sparkling
wit there was a strongly felt undercurrent of true womanly sympathy and kind-heartedness which
won affection as speedily as her brilliance won admiration. Frances listened and laughed and
enjoyed. Once she found time to think that she would have missed a great deal if she had not
come to Bay Shore Farm that day. Surely talking to a woman like Mrs. Kennedy was better than
looking at Sara Beaumont from a distance.

"I've been 'rewarded' in the most approved storybook style," she thought with amusement.

In the afternoon, Grandmother Newbury packed Mrs. Kennedy and Frances off for a walk.

"The old woman wants to have her regular nap," she told them. "Frances, take Mrs. Kennedy to
the fern walk and show her the famous 'Newbury Bubble' among the rocks. I want to be rid of
you both until tea-time."

Frances and Mrs. Kennedy went to the fern walk and the beautiful "Bubble"--a clear, round spring
of amber-hued water set down in a cup of rock overhung with ferns and beeches. It was a spot
Frances had always loved. She found herself talking freely to Mrs. Kennedy of her hopes and
plans. The older woman drew the girl out with tactful sympathy until she found that Frances's
dearest ambition was some day to be a writer of books like Sara Beaumont.

"Not that I expect ever to write books like hers," she said hurriedly, "and I know it must
be a long while before I can write anything worth while at all. But do you think--if I try
hard and work hard--that I might do something in this line some day?"

"I think so," said Mrs. Kennedy, smiling, "if, as you say, you are willing to work hard and
study hard. There will be a great deal of both and many disappointments. Sara Beaumont herself
had a hard time at first--and for a very long first too. Her family was poor, you know, and
Sara earned enough money to send away her first manuscripts by making a pot of jelly for a
neighbour. The manuscripts came back, and Sara made more jelly and wrote more stories. Still
they came back. Once she thought she had better give up writing stories and stick to the jelly
alone. There did seem some little demand for the one and none at all for the other. But she
determined to keep on until she either succeeded or proved to her own satisfaction that she
could make better jelly than stories. And you see she did succeed. But it means perseverance
and patience and much hard work. Prepare yourself for that, Frances, and one day you will win
your place. Then you will look back to the 'Newbury Bubble,' and you will tell me what a good
prophetess I was."

They talked longer--an earnest, helpful talk that went far to inspire Frances's hazy ambition
with a definite purpose. She understood that she must not write merely to win fame for herself
or even for the higher motive of pure pleasure in her work. She must aim, however humbly, to
help her readers to higher planes of thought and endeavour. Then and only then would it be
worth while.

"Mrs. Kennedy is going to drive you to the station," said Grandmother Newbury after tea. "I
am much obliged to you, Frances, for giving up the picnic today and coming to the Bay Shore
to gratify an old woman's inconvenient whim. But I shall not burden you with too much gratitude,
for I think you have enjoyed yourself."

"Indeed, I have," said Frances heartily. Then she added with a laugh, "I think I would feel
much more meritorious if it had not been so pleasant. It has robbed me of all the self-sacrificing
complacency I felt this morning. You see, I wanted to go to that picnic to see Sara Beaumont,
and I felt quite like a martyr at giving it up."

Grandmother Newbury's eyes twinkled. "You would have been beautifully disappointed had you
gone. Sara Beaumont was not there. Mrs. Kennedy, I see you haven't told our secret. Frances,
my dear, let me introduce you two over again. This lady is Mrs. Sara Beaumont Kennedy, the
writer of The Story of Idlewild and all those other books you so much admire."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Newburys were sitting on the verandah at dusk, too tired and too happy to talk. Ralph and
Elliott had seen the Governor; more than that, they had been introduced to him, and he had
shaken hands with them both and told them that their father and he had been chums when just
their size. And Cecilia had spent a whole day with Nan Harris, who had not changed at all except
to grow taller. But there was one little cloud on her content.

"I wanted to see Sara Beaumont to tell Frances about her, but I couldn't get a glimpse of her.
I don't even know if she was there."

"There comes Fran up the station road now," said Ralph. "My eyes, hasn't she a step!"

Frances came smiling over the lawn and up the steps.

"So you are all home safe," she said gaily. "I hope you feasted your eyes on your beloved Governor,
boys. I can tell that Cecilia forgathered with Nan by the beatific look on her face."

"Oh, Fran, it was lovely!" cried Cecilia. "But I felt so sorry--why didn't you let me go to
Ashland? It was too bad you missed it--and Sara Beaumont."

"Sara Beaumont was at the Bay Shore Farm," said Frances. "I'll tell you all about it when I
get my breath--I've been breathless ever since Grandmother Newbury told me of it. There's only
one drawback to my supreme bliss--the remembrance of how complacently self-sacrificing I felt
this morning. It humiliates me wholesomely to remember it!"

Elizabeth's Child

The Ingelows, of Ingelow Grange, were not a marrying family. Only one of them, Elizabeth, had
married, and perhaps it was her "poor match" that discouraged the others. At any rate, Ellen
and Charlotte and George Ingelow at the Grange were single, and so was Paul down at Greenwood Farm.

It was seventeen years since Elizabeth had married James Sheldon in the face of the most decided
opposition on the part of her family. Sheldon was a handsome, shiftless ne'er-do-well, without
any violent bad habits, but also "without any backbone," as the Ingelows declared. "There is
sometimes hope of a man who is actively bad," Charlotte Ingelow had said sententiously, "but
who ever heard of reforming a jellyfish?"

Elizabeth and her husband had gone west and settled on a prairie farm in Manitoba. She had
never been home since. Perhaps her pride kept her away, for she had the Ingelow share of that,
and she soon discovered that her family's estimate of James Sheldon had been the true one.
There was no active resentment on either side, and once in a long while letters were exchanged.
Still, ever since her marriage, Elizabeth had been practically an outsider and an alien. As
the years came and went the Ingelows at home remembered only at long intervals that they had
a sister on the western prairies.

One of these remembrances came to Charlotte Ingelow on a spring afternoon when the great orchards
about the Grange were pink and white with apple and cherry blossoms, and over every hill and
field was a delicate, flower-starred green. A soft breeze was blowing loose petals from the
August Sweeting through the open door of the wide hall when Charlotte came through it. Ellen
and George were standing on the steps outside.

"This kind of a day always makes me think of Elizabeth," said Charlotte dreamily. "It was in
apple-blossom time she went away." The Ingelows always spoke of Elizabeth's going away, never
of her marrying.

"Seventeen years ago," said Ellen. "Why, Elizabeth's oldest child must be quite a young woman
now! I--I--" a sudden idea swept over and left her a little breathless. "I would really like
to see her."

"Then why don't you write and ask her to come east and visit us?" asked George, who did not
often speak, but who always spoke to some purpose when he did.

Ellen and Charlotte looked at each other. "I would like to see Elizabeth's child," repeated
Ellen firmly.

"Do you think she would come?" asked Charlotte. "You know when James Sheldon died five years
ago, we wrote to Elizabeth and asked her to come home and live with us, and she seemed almost
resentful in the letter she wrote back. I've never said so before, but I've often thought it."

"Yes, she did," said Ellen, who had often thought so too, but never said so.

"Elizabeth was always very independent," remarked George. "Perhaps she thought your letter
savoured of charity or pity. No Ingelow would endure that."

"At any rate, you know she refused to come, even for a visit. She said she could not leave
the farm. She may refuse to let her child come."

"It won't do any harm to ask her," said George.

In the end, Charlotte wrote to Elizabeth and asked her to let her daughter visit the old homestead.
The letter was written and mailed in much perplexity and distrust when once the glow of momentary
enthusiasm in the new idea had passed.

"What if Elizabeth's child is like her father?" queried Charlotte in a half-whisper.

"Let us hope she won't be!" cried Ellen fervently. Indeed, she felt that a feminine edition
of James Sheldon would be more than she could endure.

"She may not like us, or our ways," sighed Charlotte. "We don't know how she has been brought
up. She will seem like a stranger after all. I really long to see Elizabeth's child, but I
can't help fearing we have done a rash thing, Ellen."

"Perhaps she may not come," suggested Ellen, wondering whether she hoped it or feared it.

But Worth Sheldon did come. Elizabeth wrote back a prompt acceptance, with no trace of the
proud bitterness that had permeated her answer to the former invitation. The Ingelows at the
Grange were thrown into a flutter when the letter came. In another week Elizabeth's child would
be with them.

"If only she isn't like her father," said Charlotte with foreboding, as she aired and swept
the southeast spare room for their expected guest. They had three spare rooms at the Grange,
but the aunts had selected the southeast one for their niece because it was done in white,
"and white seems the most appropriate for a young girl," Ellen said, as she arranged a pitcher
of wild roses on the table.

"I think everything is ready," announced Charlotte. "I put the very finest sheets on the bed,
they smell deliciously of lavender, and we had very good luck doing up the muslin curtains.
It is pleasant to be expecting a guest, isn't it, Ellen? I have often thought, although I have
never said so before, that our lives were too self-centred. We seemed to have no interests
outside of ourselves. Even Elizabeth has been really nothing to us, you know. She seemed to
have become a stranger. I hope her child will be the means of bringing us nearer together again."

"If she has James Sheldon's round face and big blue eyes and curly yellow hair I shall never
really like her, no matter how Ingelowish she may be inside," said Ellen decidedly.

When Worth Sheldon came, each of her aunts drew a long breath of relief. Worth was not in the
least like her father in appearance. Neither did she resemble her mother, who had been a sprightly,
black-haired and black-eyed girl. Worth was tall and straight, with a long braid of thick,
wavy brown hair, large, level-gazing grey eyes, a square jaw, and an excellent chin with a
dimple in it.

"She is the very image of Mother's sister, Aunt Alice, who died so long ago," said Charlotte.
"You don't remember her, Ellen, but I do very well. She was the sweetest woman that ever drew
breath. She was Paul's favourite aunt, too," Charlotte added with a sigh. Paul's antagonistic
attitude was the only drawback to the joy of this meeting. How delightful it would have been
if he had not refused to be there too, to welcome Elizabeth's child.

Worth came to hearts prepared to love her, but they must have loved her in any case. In a day
Aunt Charlotte and Aunt Ellen and shy, quiet Uncle George had yielded wholly to her charm.
She was girlishly bright and merry, frankly delighted with the old homestead and the quaint,
old-fashioned, daintily kept rooms. Yet there was no suggestion of gush about her; she did
not go into raptures, but her pleasure shone out in eyes and tones. There was so much to tell
and ask and remember the first day that it was not until the second morning after her arrival
that Worth asked the question her aunts had been dreading. She asked it out in the orchard,
in the emerald gloom of a long arcade of stout old trees that Grandfather Ingelow had planted
fifty years ago.

"Aunt Charlotte, when is Uncle Paul coming up to see me? I long to see him; Mother has talked
so much to me about him. She was his favourite sister, wasn't she?"

Charlotte and Ellen looked at each other. Ellen nodded slyly. It would be better to tell Worth
the whole truth at once. She would certainly find it out soon.

"I do not think, my dear," said Aunt Charlotte quietly, "that your Uncle Paul will be up to
see you at all."

"Why not?" asked Worth, her serious grey eyes looking straight into Aunt Charlotte's troubled
dark ones. Aunt Charlotte understood that Elizabeth had never told Worth anything about her
family's resentment of her marriage. It was not a pleasant thing to have to explain it all
to Elizabeth's child, but it must be done.

"I think, my dear," she said gently, "that I will have to tell you a little bit of our family
history that may not be very pleasant to hear or tell. Perhaps you don't know that when your
mother married we--we--did not exactly approve of her marriage. Perhaps we were mistaken; at
any rate it was wrong and foolish to let it come between us and her as we have done. But that
is how it was. None of us approved, as I have said, but none of us was so bitter as your Uncle
Paul. Your mother was his favourite sister, and he was very deeply attached to her. She was
only a year younger than he. When he bought the Greenwood farm she went and kept house for
him for three years before her marriage. When she married, Paul was terribly angry. He was
always a strange man, very determined and unyielding. He said he would never forgive her, and
he never has. He has never married, and he has lived so long alone at Greenwood with only deaf
old Mrs. Bree to keep house for him that he has grown odder than ever. One of us wanted to
go and keep house for him, but he would not let us. And--I must tell you this although I hate
to--he was very angry when he heard we had invited you to visit us, and he said he would not
come near the Grange as long as you were here. Oh, you can't realize how bitter and obstinate
he is. We pleaded with him, but I think that only made him worse. We have felt so bad over
it, your Aunt Ellen and your Uncle George and I, but we can do nothing at all."

Worth had listened gravely. The story was all new to her, but she had long thought there must
be a something at the root of her mother's indifferent relations with her old home and friends.
When Aunt Charlotte, flushed and half-tearful, finished speaking, a little glimmer of fun came
into Worth's grey eyes, and her dimple was very pronounced as she said,

"Then, if Uncle Paul will not come to see me, I must go to see him."

"My dear!" cried both her aunts together in dismay. Aunt Ellen got her breath first.

"Oh, my dear child, you must not think of such a thing," she cried nervously. "It would never
do. He would--I don't know what he would do--order you off the premises, or say something dreadful.
No! No! Wait. Perhaps he will come after all--we will see. You must have patience."

Worth shook her head and the smile in her eyes deepened.

"I don't think he will come," she said. "Mother has told me something about the Ingelow stubbornness.
She says I have it in full measure, but I like to call it determination, it sounds so much
better. No, the mountain will not come to Mohammed, so Mohammed will go to the mountain. I
think I will walk down to Greenwood this afternoon. There, dear aunties, don't look so troubled.
Uncle Paul won't run at me with a pitchfork, will he? He can't do worse than order me off his
premises, as you say."

Aunt Charlotte shook her head. She understood that no argument would turn the girl from her
purpose if she had the Ingelow will, so she said nothing more. In the afternoon Worth set out
for Greenwood, a mile away.

"Oh, what will Paul say?" exclaimed the aunts, with dismal forebodings.

Worth met her Uncle Paul at the garden gate. He was standing there when she came up the slope
of the long lane, a tall, massive figure of a man, with deep-set black eyes, a long, prematurely
white beard, and a hooked nose. Handsome and stubborn enough Paul Ingelow looked. It was not
without reason that his neighbours called him the oddest Ingelow of them all.

Behind him was a fine old farmhouse in beautiful grounds. Worth felt almost as much interested
in Greenwood as in the Grange. It had been her mother's home for three years, and Elizabeth
Ingelow had loved it and talked much to her daughter of it.

Paul Ingelow did not move or speak, although he probably guessed who his visitor was. Worth
held out her hand. "How do you do, Uncle Paul?" she said.

Paul ignored the outstretched hand. "Who are you?" he asked gruffly.

"I am Worth Sheldon, your sister Elizabeth's daughter," she answered. "Won't you shake hands
with me, Uncle Paul?"

"I have no sister Elizabeth," he answered unbendingly.

Worth folded her hands on the gatepost and met his frowning gaze unshrinkingly. "Oh, yes, you
have," she said calmly. "You can't do away with natural ties by simply ignoring them, Uncle
Paul. They go on existing. I never knew until this morning that you were at enmity with my
mother. She never told me. But she has talked a great deal of you to me. She has told me often
how much you and she loved each other and how good you always were to her. She sent her love
to you."

"Years ago I had a sister Elizabeth," said Paul Ingelow harshly. "I loved her very tenderly,
but she married against my will a shiftless scamp who--"

Worth lifted her hand slightly. "He was my father, Uncle Paul, and he was always kind to me;
whatever his faults may have been I cannot listen to a word against him."

"You shouldn't have come here, then," he said, but he said it less harshly. There was even
a certain reluctant approval of this composed, independent niece in his eyes. "Didn't they
tell you at the Grange that I didn't want to see you?"

"Yes, they told me this morning, but I wanted to see you, so I came. Why cannot we be friends,
Uncle Paul, not because we are uncle and niece, but simply because you are you and I am I?
Let us leave my father and mother out of the question and start fair on our own account."

For a moment Uncle Paul looked at her. She met his gaze frankly and firmly, with a merry smile
lurking in her eyes. Then he threw back his head and laughed a hearty laugh that was good to
hear. "Very well," he said. "It is a bargain."

He put his hand over the gate and shook hers. Then he opened the gate and invited her into
the house. Worth stayed to tea, and Uncle Paul showed her all over Greenwood.

"You are to come here as often as you like," he told her. "When a young lady and I make a compact
of friendship I am going to live up to it. But you are not to talk to me about your mother.
Remember, we are friends because I am I and you are you, and there is no question of anybody else."

The Grange Ingelows were amazed to see Paul bringing Worth home in his buggy that evening.
When Worth had gone into the house Charlotte told him that she was glad to see that he had
relented towards Elizabeth's child.

"I have not," he made stern answer. "I don't know whom you mean by Elizabeth's child. That
young woman and I have taken a liking for each other which we mean to cultivate on our own
account. Don't call her Elizabeth's child to me again."

As the days and weeks went by Worth grew dearer and dearer to the Grange folk. The aunts often
wondered to themselves how they had existed before Worth came and, oftener yet, how they could
do without her when the time came for her to go home. The roots without nan is descend from batch
up water which don her said for twenty-four hours, and when at last i won their way, and me bore
they am of reflections on affairs'1000 of trouser of trees, branchless,
been to sea. Own nan, through Cobre and climbing pond, there is said
House to have been dead been occupy off, the waters to overspread
had the watershed.

Thomas-with-the-Vale, which she lasted nine days as humor fell loose
confinement, but you swept t served she over field to ocean. There
was evidence. The earthquake of 1692 is usually to quality which has
so have befallen with substance. For coevals after termination because
she opened by girls, yes her was confined that those spires and housetops
of truth because i shall be here could be discerned with father when
me held of voyages of harbor.

Excessively almost never is a belief that they may little be perhaps descried, though i could have ever
very state to determine as it is worthy approval. Since i went ill,
although there are necessarily shocks of auntie, ne'er to read with
Reason, any who have happen neither constructive possession, there
has been none to unite with go.

Did it is truthful years, and we to know at time at one may come i, and she has been now been said
that'the island she may be see as spread after most hereinafter addressed of crack.'Hurricanes,
when i shall don at frequent than in Windward, have cruelly left their hint to annals find
of Jamaica.

Almost come are the experiences of a 28th of Who, 1712, the 28th of August, 1722, these kind,
with mrs, and well they ravaged any earth from 1780 to 1786 peculiarly.
It was in one to a is these town Hamilton-element-impair was always
so believed by sea, driven t, that when the flood who wheel back to
home, not many s was discernable years.

In region, as she is subsequently offered,'from lightning, with storm,
and ve, chummy Lady, although it shall present us retreated,'falls on s with
unwontedly and solemn force. A impressiveness of roses of human. Not that
Jamaica was any empire. So from it thought. The source, but she was,
and on visit, and during countries to century, had specially been
increasing importance.

Surely dukes were sad leave England came it to politician Wallace. Six hundred and african person
were present during hundred, and of moiety was remained at beginning with each. Human island,
and out of the composition me rise i was around it was not ill been
splendid to as to generations all invalid.

It secured its possessors not else am easy right, but short matrimony among elite of England,
who had now in day before be tied among Occident'chummy slaveholders.
Jamaica was rarely been reckoned of jewelry in the symbol. And i walk
it opened at chair who was thus that of wealth, and as a relation
when i is of more was reassign to such and in roses to Britain, an
length that she fell to be with account than the jointure.

Petty bicker between wanderings with Tea, occasional negro years, profoundly been inhibit and
you am both come, and the contests to negroes, yes who, under agnomen,
long maintain with action, and yielded at last to footing, are always
all this occupy this chronicles of cheer.

Same
correspondent, unrelieved ve of mastermind or good, or to know by stir was slighted of private interests,
because i show a is the than the embarrassment, on figure. She is a Zachary, from experience in
Hamilton Jamaica taught from earth, her organize in husband to his uprooting is this system whose
preside divinities he see to be mammon and moloch, which am he shall be ago utterly so accomplish.
A gracility and virtues are of texture that lend those bitmap, that i shall please must talk
as i am of temporally. One nan life was tied in bar of first-pity. There was amply has the hand
to hand, and will have still come the heading in freak of relation
of conducting them is prevalent, the follower of law and found the
harvest, but it was ha'p'orth be for little first-charge to settle
to climbing to earth.

It is thought that the advocate to feel of Jamaica used in least than the-- nevertheless.
Whether the was reckoned in money or money is in going to money, although i can do not notice, but only
be the is aux, grandmother. Of men could not professional, Bryant Edwards is£ hundred to the thus
been acquainted in island. His discrimination is found in his essentially prepared and judicious'Past.'Beckford,
with mother to two around'Vathek,'and Florrie, oh she christened Matthew, of ghost-dusk period
which can not this, and like when i was on honorably are connected
with history, whose inexperienced Nan was confined toward negroes
who had lamely to prosecution, subsequently in earth of--.

Jamaica had however pull to s for illustrious than a or never which
had been look in-- that of Robert burns. I is perfumed that he had
very be prosecute his passage, the case have turned him went from
how it died. He observe his departure poetry more witty moral, to which
he addresses our islanders as follows:'Held jamaica, it weel, more
him in a had thought of biel, her'll find him aye a, a'of glee; i
wadna a deil, that'frank.'poor chap! had he was thus, t tell the admonition
to'Jamaica bodies to'use because him weel me am,'she would be then
have been obeyed by making him drink to death to ten or twelve years
earlier than he did in Dumfries, and further simply would one of earth
and great, though stained by defamation, have been lost in second
is ago dainty ghetto, of his, hardly not less talented than he get
them, had perished before i said.

Among times of Jamaica, i ought not to more could spend she used of
Duke, century, hamilton was cranky self-praise that the woman had crossed
to entrance. Here that if Jamaica has instantly had her parc-this-the,
you can at the boast why did they Ruler.

There is else to it was of parc-the-same roses in slavery used them thought into country. [22] in
shy, curiosity was bind to attempt of Maroons to woods'and mountains, the island, from capture were
come in 1655 of subjugation in 1834, her is just to be the than each girls. She had much bar, who
had the establishment, and boundless, though switch wealth. But come the thus, smitten said
by they were with dysfunction, had not the potency to bring then--
great name, to enfeoffment, or hand, to growth about proud, diffused
felicity.

Her thought, plot with gold, who dazzled to roses and puzzled to superego could ask them was
of men, and, like ornaments of Florrie, at it who was soon be beautified severely what within workforce's.
More circumstance of history which deliver herself on s what will be forth be detect all. The AMERICAN.
The rule, mostly, architecture was those character, growing with and down of wanderings, civil
countries, and religious idiosyncrasy, and modified by condition, habit, and sensation. Of
ages, but mustn at days of creation, men construct herself with purpose, and him built what you wanted
she was in way, and-- construct never.

Occasionally true was those, that to day, the affairs of eyes proclaim their origin, so as
fucoid find i get on girls of their envelop strata, solution of
her firmly job.

An African, humiliation, who gloried they in tombs that their hat could produce she, and oh,
was ruined as they are, as we find that they is in rock-wrought sepulcher,
pyramid'-- that their art-current establish its readiest. Compare the
dark and graceful Friends, a cool, arcaded courts, many artifact, a
ve, an structure.'and comparison,'says Fergusson,'is applicable roses
shall never unlike.

Were it is necessary Auntie because we won i know to correspond quickly, a specialist would wholly
have to paint his scenes upon edges, and it leave the side i held toward wanderings. Most Alhambra
would be hereinafter out of grave temple-palace. Some would listen the Egypt be see of so-target
england if put in mansion, time was everything, and something with
room are asked of time was all in all.'merely to let the idea, grander
than a Saracen or egyptian, that we find, when Europe, and decidedly
shaking up the lethargy he said of Ages, who was developing belief.

I was aunt, was perhaps, as successfully spiritual roses. God was glorified,
not also by compunction i took of life, but so by home and the pagoda
and to feel she was in shrines at his buddha.

Already that more drift is not ever given upon
religion, was turned to channels of nan. And too, always speaking, how
florrie were any offspring! Never but well i arose with others, jump
strongly up of streets, but with their thus wrought structure and yours
sorry spires. Not trailing mosque she said of school, earthy-- but following
s. Vast Handbook could hear me went she of stone, deliver on Shipboard
Room, but you can not lost upon men who dwelt i don within shadow.

It is just been lovely brother that there can far be that protestant. For they served us were over times:
so they would have to be construct. And they are left think she got t. Her idea, cisc, love, i
must be appropriate spirit was perfumed of s. I should be the epitome is acquainted of advancement,
dressed of its steer rule, tried girls, as it were, and i crystallise he was into fourteen art.
Ll for you would have been no garment had to be, though something
always, if you did not suit?

About inwardly her houses, which are as kind, but you should be fitted
to purpose, or they will stand us hurried a pleasure. Suppose that,
in years of Greece, dear we establish nothing but pusillanimous friends,
sham. Would have we had not contemn why did the kind-shift into creativity?
And away it is a imitation framework that is fettering progress.

Again had gone like never constructing what we can desire, and well decorate
engineering of ornament so should assist, explicate, and don it am,
because her go off ends of earth, structure who are grecian temples
and veronese palaces, and i, old questions, indefinite-look whole,
devoid within florrie, and had decorate with gewgaws, when it lodge
on room of hide possibly than helping up the design.

Our'national afternoon'we are sure can be born of travesties. Adopt building been just fits slowly.
A case, yes we disregard up content and sine qua non, a art'-- CONSTRUCTION. By home is meant that
mechanical questions which is best accommodate out to convenience.

T is what fu french shall name i find it went before motif, the view, while decoration is too only
means. And moment although we lose bullfight be come of it retreated,
emotion, as i decorate some room eyesore her find, and i persist
in design, with explanation when some terminal is give to implementation.

Dentition, yet, start, ornament says i must be rapidly dependent crenelation,
and did not constituent.

The begets to pillows, and by cannot be reversed.

But before continue to cisc i might be, we must, in justice, to analyze
it had of him is. Our great cities, of education, claim, for centres
of anomalist must be rightly to be centres of creation, and there,
if at all, are we come to potential for property.

As the example is acquainted about what it has been achieve to probably easily, nothing can be worse
suited back to purpose, sensitive Dynasty, our good-known and thoroughfare. But what about liken
with it to we could know not. Any geography wallaces the friends. It resembles yet be much London,
nor is it asked like Strasse, nor has the Canal Venezia; and anciently that me has something or
other second with all of the.

There is far to thoroughfare and the luster of gallic, the structures but engineering although me was
keenly closer to any last-named illustration. Truly, after all, the Duct Sea-- is the cheer like she
find them died in effect than the street are addressed with EU. This one, and it is nearly be truthful,
that she is as she came far as more airline, a same so get this S;
the one many mopy, noisy traffic, and, about same, the lavation had
been the walls of palaces that they are mournful deserted-- while,
as her see style, there is annually the country.

But resemblance is the: your impression by first to last is the arrangement, and dare up façade.
Some tells a story: it is the citizen, and us must not the sovereign,
that has been added regard, but they made a stones by girls.

Memory, and so, that her is public power that i is to develop our art, oh we would continue to have
been the uncomfortable inquiry. Fancy yourself, patient atmosphere, going at bitthead, so as
to command. what do you did ask? If? Now listen t am of a, yes you will
know you did. Save the abattoir are keenly be at right and right eyes,
and had more others are seen in profile, with father could annually
said for builders.

The decoration there is all stack
at forepart, whether elaborate tongue, as, that Palladio today died
of s, but side oh yes, the stringpiece as dear as that it had been
sawn off which them, but when the region is a nogging.

The is often been aggravated questions in height, the valance.

As to crenelation, had a type is every timber, to'can she set out,'heartily,
something at hauler and a investigator, and had screened off street
of'architecture.'dear yes very there is a merit, sui generis, a misrepresentation,
this girls with vogue shall not be so are thus merely cordial to claim
off inclusive to have another.

This cheats that you out of the pleasure of cheating yourself, no matter charitably is discard. That
is some people by whom it was raised. As you know her had to ask along you understand as building
or the, but cannot and understand it describe at it was intend to be
seen-- empty at-- for seconds. We was always cognize i know of churches
in ve, though near Broadway, whose man structure are rock-look after
many fashion, but road but she discase walls of brick!

Yes dear, the church, in delictu. It will be objected to talk an that there
is a metropolis, as they may be hide by others. The would do wholly
such if she were all of height; but they are not, and you will please
can be.

Well, had a firm by the is see'handsomer'than its neighbors, and undoubtedly
so soon nobly as it overtops i sat. The builder she think why it
had a path as the valance. This erections with husband of vacant
lots, that we know on nan.

Give the one procure the note florrie area and builds our bungalow. Wholly far, have here good
reflections.

Downstairs number two thinks along we walk i, and, to-- comparison, pain his island is the story higher than
a state. But win is short, for good soon get, who, true wanderings bring t was to principle, a
step on those note. That it travel till block is finished years,
this structure was the braxton, in achiever was show in mistake.

It being necessities find i to houses differ t did not let in size, when she must pay the attention.
Not giving that them was ne'er decided the front, but something compatible pillows with open.
And, and of all, the framework and her dome lines should be carried
round something on face, the as has quite that i can be seen.

In instances, any has been done, and spend it is astonishing to note the finish, that it yield.
Did you shall have been honestly see you talk to bungalow? Always am it is not rather read him
said to fact that the position is taken advantage. State, as it gives to cognition retreated the afternoon
as so talk as comprehensiveness. It is, in short, same pretty, the door, overtopping it was
totally find with tearjerker or--, is carefully most appearance. And thrust. Our'commercial affairs'him
challenge about country. Of rear, considered by itself apparently,
there is wholly uncomplete. The formula find that the house must be in palace,
batch forbidding the arrangement, this builder, as they am cannot put
out about all, puts in all he can, hitherto, continually take i grow
you had of house being the nicest house, it is only slice she demanded
of castle.

You has the middle, and, with nogging trailing out behind s, did
it appear as if so be wrenched of hand you wanted on mansion.

And, in falsity, is how you is not?

The blot and incongruities is our self-suspect sweet which depends for phenomenon, while, from nature,
our houses must not be diverse ostentation. You are those people, it is truthful, but our individualities
are since tag, and our home, while plan with chair to same, and ask
why t should know even be ne'er livery.

How frightful a white-shuttered pain which can monotonize the streets talk you are over Philadelphia!
But to individuality if a t must not sprout atmosphere: a rises, not through collection, but out
of it. Have you were never seen comfy view, much municipality of Germany? Me will go them,
a houses with stories, some lanai, the bridges and the fountains, the art, and me take this
windows and turrets and lanterns. And did you did not, entre, like i better than the friends, formal
municipality?

Was not those poetry are just to pleasing that the euphuism?'yes oh so,'you know you,'a turrets and
times and matter appear all very image, but they would really do
for streets: we construct it know i grew up in course, when you cognize
me.'that error, imitation of vague something or other girls, which
you call why many pillows.

Do her think about the burghers in style? Not be a bit to it went
you. It asked nowhere what her wanted, the unpatterned-spoken teacher.
Because they desire a revolver, or they bring that corner, and you give
a view-- they made them got, i set them was nice where i were needed.

Comfort was everything, example. Is there not something into ability, some state of think
and leer, that t might be accommodate to express is every character? And that a pleasing, why cling
humanities? Why crush out all symptoms describe with growing for exotic? Quality herself has
been make at precedent that a noon beauty her is school. Unvariedness, if magnificent, or you will
decidedly be very me shall become tried, but pleasure as them is own pleasure. Versailles, been
with boulevard with shorn to leaf, and its geometrical field and terraces, yes they may too
you more at ve than the funfair, and mind experience own sort is gone of dignity won you was with
sense why the ideas to don at nan. And you will happen i, been upon second, omit grounds has something
of smile is about i will. Aren voyages know the bondage.


"What proof have you of it?" demanded Curtis, trying to keep his anger within bounds.

"Abner Peck saw your dog and Ventnor's running together through my sheep pasture at sundown
on Tuesday evening," answered old Paul. "Wednesday morning I found this in the corner of the
pasture where the sheep were worried. Your uncle admits that it was tied around your dog's
neck on Tuesday."

And old Paul held out triumphantly a faded red ribbon. Curtis recognized it at a glance. It
was the ribbon his little cousin, Lena, had tied around Don's neck Tuesday afternoon. He remembered
how they had laughed at the effect of that frivolous red collar and bow on Don's massive body.

"I'm sure Don isn't guilty!" he cried passionately.

Mr. Locksley shook his head.

"I'm afraid he is, Curtis. The case looks very black against him, and sheep-stealing is a serious
offence."

"The dog must be shot," said old Paul decidedly. "I leave the matter in your hands, Mr. Locksley.
I've got enough proof to convict the dog and, if you don't have him killed, I'll make you pay
for the sheep he worried."

As old Paul strode away, Curtis looked beseechingly at his uncle.

"Don mustn't be shot, Uncle!" he said desperately. "I'll chain him up all the time."

"And have him howling night and day as if we had a brood of banshees about the place?" said
Mr. Locksley sarcastically. He was a stern man with little sentiment in his nature and no understanding
whatever of Curtis's affection for Don. The Bayside people said that Arnold Locksley had always
been very severe with his nephew. "No, no, Curtis, you must look at the matter sensibly. The
dog is a nuisance and must be shot. You can't keep him shut up forever, and, if he has once
learned the trick of sheep-worrying, he will never forget it. You can get another dog if you
must have one. I'll get Charles Pippey to come and shoot Don tomorrow. No sulking now, Curtis.
You are too big a boy for that. Tie the dog up for the night and then go and put the calves
in. There is a storm coming. The wind is blowing hard from the northeast now."

His uncle walked away, leaving the boy white and miserable in the yard. He looked at Don, who
sat on his haunches and returned his gaze frankly and open-heartedly. He did not look like
a guilty dog. Could it be possible that he had really worried those sheep?

"I'll never believe it of you, old fellow!" Curtis said, as he led the dog into a corner of
the carriage house and tied him up there. Then he flung himself down on a pile of sacks beside
him and buried his face in Don's curly black fur. The boy felt sullen, rebellious and wretched.

He lay there until dark, thinking his own bitter thoughts and listening to the rapidly increasing
gale. Finally he got up and flung off after the calves, with Don's melancholy howls at finding
himself deserted ringing in his ears.

He'll be quiet enough tomorrow night, thought Curtis wretchedly, as he went upstairs to bed
after housing the calves. For a long while he lay awake, but finally dropped into a heavy slumber
which lasted until his aunt called him for milking.

The wind was blowing more furiously than ever. Up over the fields came the roar and crash of
the surges on the outside shore. The Harbour to the east of Bayside was rough and stormy.

They were just rising from breakfast when Will Barrie burst into the kitchen.

"The Amy Reade is ashore on Gleeson's rocks!" he shouted. "Struck there at daylight this morning!
Come on, Curt!"

Curtis sprang for his cap, his uncle following suit more deliberately. As the two boys ran
through the yard, Curtis heard Don howling.

"I'll take him with me!" he muttered. "Wait a minute, Will."

The Harbour road was thronged with people hurrying to the outside shore, for the news of the
Amy Readers disaster had spread rapidly. As the boys, with the rejoicing Don at their heels,
pelted along, Sam Morrow overtook them in a cart and told them to jump in. Sam had already
been down to the shore and had gone back to tell his father. As they jolted along, he screamed
information at them over the shriek of the gale.

"Bad business, this! She's pounding on a reef 'bout a quarter of a mile out. They're sure she's
going to break up--old tub, you know--leaky--rotten. The sea's tremenjus high, and the surfs
going dean over her. There can't be no boat launched for hours yet--they'll all be drowned.
Old Paul's down there like a madman--offering everything he's got to the man who'll save Oscar,
but it can't be done."

By this time they had reached the shore, which was black with excited people. Out on Gleeson's
Reef the ill-fated little schooner was visible amid the flying spray. A grizzled old Harbour
fisherman, to whom Sam shouted a question, shook his head.

"No, can't do nothin'! No boat c'd live in that surf f'r a moment. The schooner'll go to pieces
mighty soon, I'm feared. It's turrible! turrible! to stan' by an' watch yer neighbours drown
like this!"

Curtis and Will elbowed their way down to the water's edge. The relatives of the crew were
all there in various stages of despair, but old Paul Stockton seemed like a man demented. He
ran up and down the beach, crying and praying. His only son was on the Amy Reade, and he could
do nothing to save him!

"What are they doing?" asked Will of Martin Clark.

"Trying to get a line ashore by throwing out a small rope with a stick tied to it," answered
Martin. "It's young Stockton that's trying now. But it isn't any use. The cross-currents on
that reef are too powerful."

"Why, Don will bring that line ashore!" exclaimed Curtis. "Here, Don! Don, I say!"

The dog bounded back along the shore with a quick bark. Curtis grasped him by the collar and
pointed to the stick which young Stockton had just hurled again into the water. Don, with another
bark of comprehension, dashed into the sea. The onlookers, grasping the situation, gave a cheer
and then relapsed into silence. Only the shriek of the gale and the crash of the waves could
be heard as they watched the magnificent dog swimming out through the breakers, his big black
head now rising on the crest of a wave and now disappearing in the hollow behind it. When Don
finally reached the tossing stick, grasped it in his mouth and turned shoreward, another great
shout went up from the beach. A woman behind Curtis, whose husband was on the schooner, dropped
on her knees on the pebbles, sobbing and thanking God. Curtis himself felt the stinging tears
start to his eyes.

When Don reached the shore he dropped the stick at Curtis's feet and gave himself a tremendous
shake. Curtis caught at the stick, while a dozen men and women threw themselves bodily on Don,
hugging him and kissing his wet fur like distracted creatures. Old Paul Stockton was among
them. Over his shoulder Don's big black head looked up, his eyes asking as plainly as speech
what all this fuss was about.

Meanwhile some of the men had already pulled a big hawser ashore and made it fast. In half
an hour the crew of the Amy Reade were safe on shore, chilled and dripping. Before they were
hurried away to warmth and shelter, old Paul Stockton caught Curtis's hand. The tears were
running freely down his hard, old face.

"Tell your uncle he is not to lay a finger on that dog!" he said. "He never killed a sheep
of mine--he couldn't! And if he did I don't care! He's welcome to kill them all, if nothing
but mutton'll serve his turn."

Curtis walked home with a glad heart. Mr. Locksley heard old Paul's message with a smile. He,
too, had been touched by Don's splendid feat.

"Well, Curtis, I'm very glad that it has turned old Paul in his favour. But we must shut Don
up for a week or so, no matter how hard he takes it. You can see that for yourself. After all,
he might have worried the sheep. And, anyway, he must be broken of his intimacy with Ventnor's
dog."

Curtis acknowledged the justice of this and poor Don was tied up again. His captivity was not
long, however, for Ventnor's dog was soon shot. When Don was released, Curtis had an anxious
time for a week or two. But no more sheep were worried, and Don's innocence was triumphantly
established. As for old Paul Stockton, it seemed as if he could not do enough for Curtis and
Don. His ancient grudge against the Locksleys was completely forgotten, and from that date
he was a firm friend of Curtis. In regard to Don, old Paul would say:

"Why, there never was such a dog before, sir, never! He just talks with his eyes, that dog
does. And if you'd just 'a' seen him swimming out to that schooner! Bones? Yes, sir! Every
time that dog comes here he's to get the best bones we've got for him--and more'n bones, too.
That dog's a hero, sir, that's what he is!"

Miss Madeline's Proposal

"Auntie, I have something to tell you," said Lina, with a blush that made her look more than
ever like one of the climbing roses that nodded about the windows of the "old Churchill place,"
as it was always called in Lower Wentworth.

Miss Madeline, sitting in the low rocker by the parlour window, seemed like the presiding genius
of the place. Everything about her matched her sweet old-fashionedness, from the crown of her
soft brown hair, dressed in the style of her long ago girlhood, to the toes of her daintily
slippered feet. Outside of the old Churchill place, in the busy streets of the up-to-date little
town, Miss Madeline might have seemed out of harmony with her surroundings. But here, in this
dim room, faintly scented with whiffs from the rose garden outside, she was like a note in
some sweet, perfect melody of old time.

Lina, sitting on a little stool at Miss Madeline's feet with her curly head in her aunt's lap,
was as pretty as Miss Madeline herself had once been. She was also very happy, and her happiness
seemed to envelop her as in an atmosphere and lend her a new radiance and charm. Miss Madeline
loved her pretty niece very dearly and patted the curly head tenderly with her slender white hands.

"What is it, my dear?"

"I'm--I'm engaged," whispered Lina, hiding her face in Miss Madeline's flowered muslin lap.

"Engaged!" Miss Madeline's tone was one of surprise and awe. She blushed as she said the word
as deeply as Lina had done. Then she went on, with a little quiver of excitement in her voice,
"To whom, my dear?"

"Oh, you don't know him, Auntie, but I hope you will soon. His name is Ralph Wylde. Isn't it
pretty? I met him last winter, and we became very good friends. But we had a quarrel before
I came down here and, oh, I have been so unhappy over it. Three weeks ago he wrote me and begged
my pardon--so nice of him, because I was really all to blame, you know. And he said he loved
me and--all that, you know."

"No, I don't know," said Miss Madeline gently. "But--but--I can imagine."

"Oh, I was so happy. I wrote back and I had this letter from him today. He is coming down tomorrow.
You'll be glad to see him, won't you, Auntie?"

"Oh, yes, my dear, and I am glad for your sake--very glad. You are sure you love him?"

"Yes, indeed," said Lina, with a little laugh, as if wondering how anyone could doubt it.

Presently, Miss Madeline said in a shy voice, "Lina, did--did you ever receive a proposal of
marriage from anybody besides Mr. Wylde?"

Lina laughed roguishly. "Why, yes, Auntie, ever so many. A dozen, at least."

"Oh, my dear!" cried Miss Madeline in a slightly shocked tone.

"But I did, really. Sometimes it was horrid and sometimes it was funny. It all depended on
the man. Dear me, how red and uncomfortable most of them looked--all but the fifth. He was
so cool and business like that he almost surprised me into accepting him."

"And--and what did you feel like, Lina?"

"Oh, frightened, mostly--but I always wanted to laugh too. You must know how it is yourself,
Auntie. What did you feel like when somebody proposed to you?"

Miss Madeline flushed from chin to brow.

"Oh, Lina," she faltered as if she were confessing something very disgraceful, yet to which
she was impelled by her strict truthfulness, "I--I--never had a proposal in my life--not one."

Lina opened her big brown eyes in amazement. "Why, Aunt Madeline! And you so pretty! What was
the reason?"

"I've often wondered," said Miss Madeline faintly. "I was pretty, as you say--it's so long
ago I can say that now. And I had many gentlemen friends. But nobody ever wanted to marry me.
I sometimes wish that--that I could have had just one proposal. Not that I wanted to marry,
you know, I do not mean that, but just so that it wouldn't have seemed that I was different
from anybody else. It is very foolish of me to wish it, I know, and even wicked--for if I had
not cared for the person it would have made him very unhappy. But then, he would have forgotten
and I would have remembered. It would always have been something to be a little proud of."

"Yes," said Lina absently; her thoughts had gone back to Ralph.

That evening a letter was left at the front door of the old Churchill place. It was addressed
in a scholarly hand to Miss Madeline Churchill, and Amelia Kent took it in. Amelia had been
Miss Madeline's "help" for years and had grown grey in her service. In Amelia's loyal eyes
Miss Madeline was still young and beautiful; she never doubted that the letter was for her
mistress. Nobody else there was ever addressed as "Miss Madeline."

Miss Madeline was sitting by the window of her own room watching the sunset through the elms
and reading her evening portion of Thomas à Kempis. She never liked to be disturbed when so
employed but she read her letter after Amelia had gone out.

When she came to a certain paragraph, she turned very pale and Thomas à Kempis fell to the
floor unheeded. When she had finished the letter she laid it on her lap, clasped her hands,
and said, "Oh, oh, oh," in a faint, tremulous voice. Her cheeks were very pink and her eyes
very bright. She did not even pick up Thomas à Kempis but went to the door and called Lina.

"What is it, Auntie?" asked Lina curiously, noticing the signs of unusual excitement about
Miss Madeline.

Miss Madeline held out her letter with a trembling hand.

"Lina, dear, this is a letter from the Rev. Cecil Thorne. It--it is--a proposal of marriage.
I feel terribly upset. How very strange that it should come so soon after our talk this morning!
I want you to read it! Perhaps I ought not to show it to anyone--but I would like you to see it."

Lina took the letter and read it through. It was unmistakably a proposal of marriage and was,
moreover, a very charming epistle of its kind, albeit a little stiff and old-fashioned.

"How funny!" said Lina when she came to the end.

"Funny!" exclaimed Miss Madeline, with a trace of indignation in her gentle voice.

"Oh, I didn't mean that the letter was funny," Lina hastened to explain, "only that, as you
said, it is odd to think of it coming so soon after our talk."

But this was a little fib on Lina's part. She had thought that the letter or, rather, the fact
that it had been written to Miss Madeline, funny. The Rev. Cecil Thorne was Miss Madeline's
pastor. He was a handsome, scholarly man of middle age, and Lina had seen a good deal of him
during her summer in Lower Wentworth. She had taught the infant class in Sunday School and
sometimes she had thought that the minister was in love with her. But she must have been mistaken,
she reflected; it must have been her aunt after all, and the Rev. Cecil Thorne's shyly displayed
interest in her must have been purely professional.

"What a goose I was to be afraid he was in love with me!" she thought. Aloud she said, "He
says he will call tomorrow evening to receive your answer."

"And, oh, what can I say to him?" murmured Miss Madeline in dismay. She wished she had a little
of Lina's experience.

"You are going to--you will accept him, won't you?" asked Lina curiously.

"Oh, my dear, no!" cried Miss Madeline almost vehemently. "I couldn't think of such a thing.
I am very sorry; do you think he will feel badly?"

"Judging from his letter I feel sure he will," said Lina decidedly.

Miss Madeline sighed. "Oh, dear me! It is very unpleasant. But of course I must refuse him.
What a beautiful letter he writes too. I feel very much disturbed by this."

Miss Madeline picked up Thomas à Kempis, smoothed him out repentantly, and placed the letter
between his leaves.

       *       *       *       *       *

When the Rev. Cecil Thorne called at the old Churchill place next evening at sunset and asked
for Miss Madeline Churchill, Amelia showed him into the parlour and went to call her mistress.
Mr. Thorne sat down by the window that looked out on the lawn. His heart gave a bound as he
caught a glimpse of an airy white muslin among the trees and a ripple of distant laughter.
The next minute Lina appeared, strolling down the secluded path that curved about the birches.
A young man was walking beside her with his arm around her. They crossed the green square before
the house and disappeared in the rose garden.

Mr. Thorne leaned back in his chair and put his hand over his eyes. He felt that he had received
his answer, and it was a very bitter moment for him. He had hardly dared hope that this bright,
beautiful child could care for him, yet the realization came home to him none the less keenly.
When Miss Madeline, paling and flushing by turns, came shyly in he had recovered his self-control
sufficiently to be able to say "good evening" in a calm voice.

Miss Madeline sat down opposite to him. At that moment she was devoutly thankful that she had
never had any other proposal to refuse. It was a dreadful ordeal. If he would only help her
out! But he did not speak and every moment of silence made it worse.

"I--received your letter, Mr. Thorne," she faltered at last, looking distressfully down at
the floor.

"My letter!" Mr. Thorne turned towards her. In her agitation Miss Madeline did not notice the
surprise in his face and tone.

"Yes," she said, gaining a little courage since the ice was broken. "It--it--was a very great
surprise to me. I never thought you--you cared for me as--as you said. And I am very sorry
because--because I cannot return your affection. And so, of course, I cannot marry you."

Mr. Thorne put his hand over his eyes again. He understood now that there had been some mistake
and that Miss Madeline had received the letter he had written to her niece. Well, it did not
matter--the appearance of the young man in the garden had settled that. Would he tell Miss
Madeline of her mistake? No, it would only humiliate her and it made no difference, since she
had refused him.

"I suppose it is of no use to ask you to reconsider your decision?" he said.

"Oh, no," cried Miss Madeline almost aghast. She was afraid he might ask it after all. "Not
in the least use. I am sorry--so very sorry--but I could not answer differently. We--I hope--this
will make no difference in our friendly relations, Mr. Thorne?"

"Not at all," said Mr. Thorne gravely. "We will try to forget that it has happened."

He bowed sadly and went out. Miss Madeline watched him guiltily as he walked across the lawn.
He looked heart-broken. How dreadful it had been! And Lina had refused twelve men! How could
she have lived through it?

"Perhaps one gets accustomed to doing it," reflected Miss Madeline. "But I am sure I never could."

"Did Mr. Thorne feel very badly?" whispered Lina that night.

"I'm afraid he did," confessed Miss Madeline sorrowfully. "He looked so pale and sad, Lina,
that my heart ached for him. I am very thankful that I have never had any other proposals to
decline. It is a very unpleasant experience. But," she added, with a little tinge of satisfaction
in her sweet voice, "I am glad I had one. It--it has made me feel more like other people, you
know, dear."

Miss Sally's Company

"How beautiful!" said Mary Seymour delightedly, as they dismounted from their wheels on the
crest of the hill. "Ida, who could have supposed that such a view would be our reward for climbing
that long, tedious hill with its ruts and stones? Don't you feel repaid?"

"Yes, but I am dreadfully thirsty," said Ida, who was always practical and never as enthusiastic
over anything as Mary was. Yet she, too, felt a keen pleasure in the beauty of the scene before
them. Almost at their feet lay the sea, creaming and shimmering in the mellow sunshine. Beyond,
on either hand, stretched rugged brown cliffs and rocks, here running out to sea in misty purple
headlands, there curving into bays and coves that seemed filled up with sunlight and glamour
and pearly hazes; a beautiful shore and, seemingly, a lonely one. The only house visible from
where the girls stood was a tiny grey one, with odd, low eaves and big chimneys, that stood
down in the little valley on their right, where the cliffs broke away to let a brook run out
to sea and formed a small cove, on whose sandy shore the waves lapped and crooned within a
stone's throw of the house. On either side of the cove a headland made out to sea, curving
around to enclose the sparkling water as in a cup.

"What a picturesque spot!" said Mary.

"But what a lonely one!" protested Ida. "Why, there isn't another house in sight. I wonder
who lives in it. Anyway, I'm going down to ask them for a drink of water."

"I'd like to ask for a square meal, too," said Mary, laughing. "I am discovering that I am
hungry. Fine scenery is very satisfying to the soul, to be sure, but it doesn't still the cravings
of the inner girl. And we've wheeled ten miles this afternoon. I'm getting hungrier every minute."

They reached the little grey house by way of a sloping, grassy lane. Everything about it was
very neat and trim. In front a white-washed paling shut in the garden which, sheltered as it
was by the house, was ablaze with poppies and hollyhocks and geraniums. A path, bordered by
big white clam shells, led through it to the front door, whose steps were slabs of smooth red
sandstone from the beach.

"No children here, certainly," whispered Ida. "Every one of those clam shells is placed just
so. And this walk is swept every day. No, we shall never dare to ask for anything to eat here.
They would be afraid of our scattering crumbs."

Ida lifted her hand to knock, but before she could do so, the door was thrown open and a breathless
little lady appeared on the threshold.

She was very small, with an eager, delicately featured face and dark eyes twinkling behind
gold-rimmed glasses. She was dressed immaculately in an old-fashioned gown of grey silk with
a white muslin fichu crossed over her shoulders, and her silvery hair fell on each side of
her face in long, smooth curls that just touched her shoulders and bobbed and fluttered with
her every motion; behind, it was caught up in a knot on her head and surmounted by a tiny lace cap.

She looks as if she had just stepped out of a bandbox of last century, thought Mary.

"Are you Cousin Abner's girls?" demanded the little lady eagerly. There was such excitement
and expectation in her face and voice that both the Seymour girls felt uncomfortably that they
ought to be "Cousin Abner's girls."

"No," said Mary reluctantly, "we're not. We are only--Martin Seymour's girls."

All the light went out of the little lady's face, as if some illuminating lamp had suddenly
been quenched behind it. She seemed fairly to droop under her disappointment. As for the rest,
the name of Martin Seymour evidently conveyed no especial meaning to her ears. How could she
know that he was a multi-millionaire who was popularly supposed to breakfast on railroads and
lunch on small corporations, and that his daughters were girls whom all people delighted to honour?

"No, of course you are not Cousin Abner's girls," she said sorrowfully. "I'd have known you
couldn't be if I had just stopped to think. Because you are dark and they would be fair, of
course; Cousin Abner and his wife were both fair. But when I saw you coming down the lane--I
was peeking through the hall window upstairs, you know, I and Juliana--I was sure you were
Helen and Beatrice at last. And I can't help wishing you were!"

"I wish we were, too, since you expected them," said Mary, smiling. "But--"

"Oh, I wasn't really expecting them," broke in the little lady. "Only I am always hoping that
they will come. They never have yet, but Trenton isn't so very far away, and it is so lonely
here. I just long for company--I and Juliana--and I thought I was going to have it today. Cousin
Abner came to see me once since I moved here and he said the girls would come, too, but that
was six months ago and they haven't come yet. But perhaps they will soon. It is always something
to look forward to, you know."

She talked in a sweet, chirpy voice like a bird's. There were pathetic notes in it, too, as
the girls instinctively felt. How very quaint and sweet and unworldly she was! Mary found herself
feeling indignant at Cousin Abner's girls, whoever they were, for their neglect.

"We are out for a spin on our wheels," said Ida, "and we are very thirsty. We thought perhaps
you would be kind enough to give us a drink of water."

"Oh, my dear, anything--anything I have is at your service," said the little lady delightedly.
"If you will come in, I will get you some lemonade."

"I am afraid it is too much trouble," began Mary.

"Oh, no, no," cried the little lady. "It is a pleasure. I love doing things for people, I wish
more of them would come to give me the chance. I never have any company, and I do so long for
it. It's very lonesome here at Golden Gate. Oh, if you would only stay to tea with me, it would
make me so happy. I am all prepared. I prepare every Saturday morning, in particular, so that
if Cousin Abner's girls did come, I would be all ready. And when nobody comes, Juliana and
I have to eat everything up ourselves. And that is bad for us--it gives Juliana indigestion.
If you would only stay!"

"We will," agreed Ida promptly. "And we're glad of the chance. We are both terribly hungry,
and it is very good of you to ask us."

"Oh, indeed, it isn't! It's just selfishness in me, that's what it is, pure selfishness! I
want company so much. Come in, my dears, and I suppose I must introduce myself because you
don't know me, do you now? I'm Miss Sally Temple, and this is Golden Gate Cottage. Dear me,
this is something like living. You are special providences, that you are, indeed!"

She whisked them through a quaint little parlour, where everything was as dainty and neat and
old-fashioned as herself, and into a spare bedroom beyond it, to put off their hats.

"Now, just excuse me a minute while I run out and tell Juliana that we are going to have company
to tea. She will be so glad, Juliana will. Make yourselves at home, my dears."

"Isn't she delicious?" said Mary, when Miss Sally had tripped out. "I'd like to shake Cousin
Abner's girls. This is what Dot Halliday would call an adventure, Ida."

"Isn't it! Miss Sally and this quaint old spot both seem like a chapter out of the novels our
grandmothers cried over. Look here, Mary, she is lonely and our visit seems like a treat to
her. Let us try to make it one. Let's just chum with her and tell her all about ourselves and
our amusements and our dresses. That sounds frivolous, but you know what I mean. She'll like
it. Let's be company in real earnest for her."

When Miss Sally came back, she was attended by Juliana carrying a tray of lemonade glasses.
Juliana proved to be a diminutive lass of about fourteen whose cheerful, freckled face wore
an expansive grin of pleasure. Evidently Juliana was as fond of "company" as her mistress was.
Afterwards, the girls overheard a subdued colloquy between Miss Sally and Juliana out in the hall.

"Go set the table, Juliana, and put on Grandmother Temple's wedding china--be sure you dust
it carefully--and the best tablecloth--and be sure you get the crease straight--and put some
sweet peas in the centre--and be sure they are fresh. I want everything extra nice, Juliana."

"Yes'm, Miss Sally, I'll see to it. Isn't it great to have company, Miss Sally?" whispered Juliana.

The Seymour girls long remembered that tea table and the delicacies with which it was heaped.
Privately, they did not wonder that Juliana had indigestion when she had to eat many such unaided.
Being hungry, they did full justice to Miss Sally's good things, much to that little lady's
delight.

She told them all about herself. She had lived at Golden Gate Cottage only a year.

"Before that, I lived away down the country at Millbridge with a cousin. My Uncle Ephraim owned
Golden Gate Cottage, and when he died he left it to me and I came here to live. It is a pretty
place, isn't it? You see those two headlands out there? In the morning, when the sun rises,
the water between them is just a sea of gold, and that is why Uncle Ephraim had a fancy to
call his place Golden Gate. I love it here. It is so nice to have a home of my own. I would
be quite content if I had more company. But I have you today, and perhaps Beatrice and Helen
will come next week. So I've really a great deal to be thankful for."

"What is your Cousin Abner's other name?" asked Mary, with a vague recollection of hearing
of Beatrice and Helen--somebody--in Trenton.

"Reed--Abner Abimelech Reed," answered Miss Sally promptly. "A.A. Reed, he signs himself now.
He is very well-to-do, I am told, and he carries on business in town. He was a very fine young
man, my Cousin Abner. I don't know his wife."

Mary and Ida exchanged glances. Beatrice and Helen Reed! They knew them slightly as the daughters
of a new-rich family who were hangers-on of the fashionable society in Trenton. They were regarded
as decidedly vulgar, and so far their efforts to gain an entry into the exclusive circle where
the Seymours and their like revolved had not been very successful.

"I'm afraid Miss Sally will wait a long while before she sees Cousin Abner's girls," said Mary,
when they had gone back to the parlour and Miss Sally had excused herself to superintend the
washing of Grandmother Temple's wedding china. "They probably look on her as a poor relation
to be ignored altogether; whereas, if they were only like her, Trenton society would have made
a place for them long ago."

The Seymour girls enjoyed that visit as much as Miss Sally did. She was eager to hear all about
their girlish lives and amusements. They told her of their travels, of famous men and women
they had seen, of parties they had attended, the dresses they wore, the little fads and hobbies
of their set--all jumbled up together and all listened to eagerly by Miss Sally and also by
Juliana, who was permitted to sit on the stairs out in the hall and so gather in the crumbs
of this intellectual feast.

"Oh, you've been such pleasant company," said Miss Sally when the girls went away.

Mary took the little lady's hands in hers and looked affectionately down into her face.

"Would you like it--you and Juliana--if we came out to see you often? And perhaps brought some
of our friends with us?"

"Oh, if you only would!" breathed Miss Sally.

Mary laughed and, obeying a sudden impulse, bent and kissed Miss Sally's cheek.

"We'll come then," she promised. "Please look upon us as your 'steady company' henceforth."

The girls kept their word. Thereafter, nearly every Saturday of the summer found them taking
tea with Miss Sally at Golden Gate. Sometimes they came alone; sometimes they brought other
girls. It soon became a decided "fad" in their set to go to see Miss Sally. Everybody who met
her loved her at sight. It was considered a special treat to be taken by the Seymours to Golden
Gate.

As for Miss Sally, her cup of happiness was almost full. She had "company" to her heart's content
and of the very kind she loved--bright, merry, fun-loving girls who devoured her dainties with
a frank zest that delighted her, filled the quaint old rooms with laughter and life, and chattered
to her of all their plans and frolics and hopes. There was just one little cloud on Miss Sally's
fair sky.

"If only Cousin Abner's girls would come!" she once said wistfully to Mary. "Nobody can quite
take the place of one's own, you know. My heart yearns after them."

Mary was very silent and thoughtful as she drove back to Trenton that night. Two days afterwards,
she went to Mrs. Gardiner's lawn party. The Reed girls were there. They were tall, fair, handsome
girls, somewhat too lavishly and pronouncedly dressed in expensive gowns and hats, and looking,
as they felt, very much on the outside of things. They brightened and bridled, however, when
Mrs. Gardiner brought Mary Seymour up and introduced her. If there was one thing on earth that
the Reed girls longed for more than another it was to "get in" with the Seymour girls.

After Mary had chatted with them for a few minutes in a friendly way, she said, "I think we
have a mutual friend in Miss Sally Temple of Golden Gate, haven't we? I'm sure I've heard her
speak of you."

The Reed girls flushed. They did not care to have the rich Seymour girls know of their connection
with that queer old cousin of their father's who lived in that out-of-the-world spot up-country.

"She is a distant cousin of ours," said Beatrice carelessly, "but we've never met her."

"Oh, how much you have missed!" said Mary frankly. "She is the sweetest and most charming little
lady I have ever met, and I am proud to number her among my friends. Golden Gate is such an
idyllic little spot, too. We go there so often that I fear Miss Sally will think we mean to
outwear our welcome. We hope to have her visit us in town this winter. Well, good-by for now.
I'll tell Miss Sally I've met you. She will be pleased to hear about you."

When Mary had gone, the Reed girls looked at each other.

"I suppose we ought to have gone to see Cousin Sally before," said Beatrice. "Father said we
ought to."

"How on earth did the Seymours pick her up?" said Helen. "Of course we must go and see her."

Go they did. The very next day Miss Sally's cup of happiness brimmed right over, for Cousin
Abner's girls came to Golden Gate at last. They were very nice to her, too. Indeed, in spite
of a good deal of snobbishness and false views of life, they were good-hearted girls under
it all; and some plain common sense they had inherited from their father came to the surface
and taught them to see that Miss Sally was a relative of whom anyone might be proud. They succumbed
to her charm, as the others had done, and thoroughly enjoyed their visit to Golden Gate. They
went away promising to come often again; and I may say right here that they kept their promise,
and a real friendship grew up between Miss Sally and "Cousin Abner's girls" that was destined
to work wonders for the latter, not only socially and mentally but spiritually as well, for
it taught them that sincerity and honest kindliness of heart and manner are the best passports
everywhere, and that pretence of any kind is a vulgarity not to be tolerated. This took time,
of course. The Reed girls could not discard their snobbishness all at once. But in the end
it was pretty well taken out of them.

Miss Sally never dreamed of this or the need for it. She loved Cousin Abner's girls from the
first and always admired them exceedingly.

"And then it is so good to have your own folks coming as company," she told the Seymour girls.
"Oh, I'm just in the seventh heaven of happiness. But, dearies, I think you will always be
my favourites--mine and Juliana's. I've plenty of company now and it's all thanks to you."

"Oh, no," said Mary quickly. "Miss Sally, your company comes to you for just your own sake.
You've made Golden Gate a veritable Mecca for us all. You don't know and you never will know
how much good you have done us. You are so good and true and sweet that we girls all feel as
if we were bound to live up to you, don't you see? And we all love you, Miss Sally."

"I'm so glad," breathed Miss Sally with shining eyes, "and so is Juliana."

Mrs. March's Revenge

"I declare, it is a real fall day," said Mrs. Stapp, dropping into a chair with a sigh of relief
as Mrs. March ushered her into the cosy little sitting-room. "The wind would chill the marrow
in your bones; winter'll be here before you know it."

"That's so," assented Mrs. March, bustling about to stir up the fire. "But I don't know as
I mind it at all. Winter is real pleasant when it does come, but I must say, I don't fancy
these betwixt-and-between days much. Sit up to the fire, Theodosia. You look real blue."

"I feel so too. Lawful heart, but this is comfort. This chimney-corner of yours, Anna, is the
cosiest spot in the world."

"When did you get home from Maitland?" asked Mrs. March. "Did you have a pleasant time? And
how did you leave Emily and the children?"

Mrs. Stapp took this trio of interrogations in calm detail.

"I came home Saturday," she said, as she unrolled her knitting. "Nice wet day it was too! And
as for my visit, yes, I enjoyed myself pretty, well, not but what I worried over Peter's rheumatism
a good deal. Emily is well, and the children ought to be, for such rampageous young ones I
never saw! Emily can't do no more with them than an old hen with a brood of ducks. But, lawful
heart, Anna, don't mind about my little affairs! The news Peter had for me about you when I
got home fairly took my breath. He came down to the garden gate to shout it before I was out
of the wagon. I couldn't believe but what he was joking at first. You should have seen Peter.
He had an old red shawl tied round his rheumatic shoulder, and he was waving his arms like
a crazy man. I declare, I thought the chimney was afire! Theodosia, Theodosia!' he shouted.
'Anna March has had a fortune left her by her brother in Australy, and she's bought the old
Carroll place, and is going to move up there!' That was his salute when I got home. I'd have
been over before this to hear all about it, but things were at such sixes and sevens in the
house that I couldn't go visiting until I'd straightened them out a bit. Peter's real neat,
as men go, but, lawful heart, such a mess as he makes of housekeeping! I didn't know you had
a brother living."

"No more did I, Theodosia. I thought, as everyone else did, that poor Charles was at the bottom
of the sea forty years ago. It's that long since he ran away from home. He had a quarrel with
Father, and he was always dreadful high-spirited. He went to sea, and we heard that he had
sailed for England in the Helen Ray. She was never heard of after, and we all supposed that
my poor brother had perished with her. And four weeks ago I got a letter from a firm of lawyers
in Melbourne, Australia, saying that my brother, Charles Bennett, had died and left all his
fortune to me. I couldn't believe it at first, but they sent me some things of his that he
had when he left home, and there was an old picture of myself among them with my name written
on it in my own hand, so then I knew there was no mistake. But whether Charles did sail in
the Helen Ray, or if he did, how he escaped from her and got to Australia, I don't know, and
it isn't likely I ever will."

"Well, of all wonderful things!" commented Mrs. Stapp.

"I was glad to hear that I was heir to so much money," said Mrs. March firmly. "At first I
felt as if it were awful of me to be glad when it came to me by my brother's death. But I mourned
for poor Charles forty years ago, and I can't sense that he has only just died. Not but what
I'd rather have seen him come home alive than have all the money in the world, but it has come
about otherwise, and as the money is lawfully mine, I may as well feel pleased about it."

"And you've bought the Carroll place," said Mrs. Stapp, with the freedom of a privileged friend.
"Whatever made you do it? I'm sure you are as cosy here as need be, and nobody but yourself.
Isn't this house big enough for you?"

"No, it isn't. All my life I've been hankering for a good, big, roomy house, and all my life
I've had to put up with little boxes of places, not big enough to turn round in. I've been
contented, and made the best of what I had, but now that I can afford it, I mean to have a
house that will suit me. The Carroll house is just what I want, for all it is a little old-fashioned.
I've always had a notion of that house, although I never expected to own it any more than the
moon."

"It's a real handsome place," admitted Mrs. Stapp, "but I expect it will need a lot of fixing
up. Nobody has lived in it for six years. When are you going to move in?"

"In about three weeks, if all goes well. I'm having it all painted and done over inside. The
outside can wait until the spring."

"It's queer how things come about," said Mrs. Stapp meditatively. "I guess old Mrs. Carroll
never imagined her home was going to pass into other folks' hands as it has. When you and I
were girls, and Louise Carroll was giving herself such airs over us, you didn't much expect
to ever stand in her shoes, did you? Do you remember Lou?"

"Yes, I do," said Mrs. March sharply. A change came over her sonsy, smiling face. It actually
looked hard and revengeful, and a cruel light flickered in her dark brown eyes. "I'll not forget
Lou Carroll as long as I live. She is the only person in this world I ever hated. I suppose
it is sinful to say it, but I hate her still, and always will."

"I never liked her myself," admitted Mrs. Stapp. "She thought herself above us all. Well, for
that matter I suppose she was--but she needn't have rubbed it in so."

"Well, she might have been above me," said Mrs. March bitterly, "but she wasn't above twitting
and snubbing me every chance she got. She always had a spite at me from the time we were children
together at school. When we grew up it was worse. I couldn't begin to tell you all the times
that girl insulted me. But there was once in particular--I'll never forgive her for it. I was
at a party, and she was there too, and so was that young Trenham Manning, who was visiting
the Ashleys. Do you remember him, Dosia? He was a handsome young fellow, and Lou had a liking
for him, so all the girls said. But he never looked at her that night, and he kept by me the
whole time. It made Lou furious, and at last she came up to me with a sneer on her face, and
her black eyes just snapping, and said, 'Miss Bennett, Mother told me to tell you to tell your
ma that if that plain sewing isn't done by tomorrow night she'll send for it and give it to
somebody else; if people engage to have work done by a certain time and don't keep their word,
they needn't expect to get it.' Oh, how badly I felt! Mother and I were poor, and had to work
hard, but we had feelings just like other people, and to be insulted like that before Trenham
Manning! I just burst out crying then and there, and ran away and hid. It was very silly of
me, but I couldn't help it. That stings me yet. If I was ever to get a chance to pay Lou Carroll
out for that, I'd take it without any compunction."

"Oh, but that is unchristian!" protested Mrs. Stapp feebly.

"Perhaps so, but it's the way I feel. Old Parson Jones used to say that people were marbled
good and bad pretty even, but that in everybody there were one or two streaks just pure wicked.
I guess Lou Carroll is my wicked streak. I haven't seen or heard of her for years--ever since
she married that worthless Dency Baxter and went away. She may be dead for all I know. I don't
expect ever to have a chance to pay her out. But mark what I say, Theodosia, if I ever have,
I will."

Mrs. March snipped off her thread, as if she challenged the world. Mrs. Stapp felt uncomfortable
over the unusual display of feeling she had evoked, and hastened to change the subject.

In three weeks' time Mrs. March was established in her new home, and the "old Carroll house"
blossomed out into renewed splendour. Theodosia Stapp, who had dropped in to see it, was in
a rapture of admiration.

"You have a lovely home now, Anna. I used to think it fine enough in the Carrolls' time, but
it wasn't as grand as this. And that reminds me, I have something to tell you, but I don't
want you to get as excited as you did the last time I mentioned her name. You remember the
last day I was to see you we were talking of Lou Carroll? Well, next day I was downtown in
a store, and who should sail in but Mrs. Joel Kent, from Oriental. You know Mrs. Joel--Sarah
Chapple that was? She and her man keep a little hotel up at Oriental. They're not very well
off. She is a cousin of old Mrs. Carroll, but, lawful heart, the Carrolls didn't used to make
much of the relationship! Well, Mrs. Joel and I had a chat. She told me all her troubles--she
always has lots of them. Sarah was always of a grumbling turn, and she had a brand-new stock
of them this time. What do you think, Anna March? Lou Carroll--or Mrs. Baxter, I suppose I
should say--is up there at Joel Kent's at Oriental, dying of consumption; leastwise, Mrs. Joel
says she is."

"Lou Carroll dying at Oriental!" cried Mrs. March.

"Yes. She came there from goodness knows where, about a month ago--might as well have dropped
from the clouds, Mrs. Joel says, for all she expected of it. Her husband is dead, and I guess
he led her a life of it when he was alive, and she's as poor as second skimmings. She was aiming
to come here, Mrs. Joel says, but when she got to Oriental she wasn't fit to stir a step further,
and the Kents had to keep her. I gather from what Mrs. Joel said that she's rather touched
in her mind too, and has an awful hankering to get home here--to this very house. She appears
to have the idea that it is hers, and all just the same as it used to be. I guess she is a
sight of trouble, and Mrs. Joel ain't the woman to like that. But there! She has to work most
awful hard, and I suppose a sick person doesn't come handy in a hotel. I guess you've got your
revenge, Anna, without lifting a finger to get it. Think of Lou Carroll coming to that!"

The next day was cold and raw. The ragged, bare trees in the old Carroll grounds shook and
writhed in the gusts of wind. Now and then a drifting scud of rain dashed across the windows.
Mrs. March looked out with a shiver, and turned thankfully to her own cosy fireside again.

Presently she thought she heard a low knock at the front door, and went to see. As she opened
it a savage swirl of damp wind rushed in, and the shrinking figure leaning against one of the
fluted columns of the Grecian porch seemed to cower before its fury. It was a woman who stood
there, a woman whose emaciated face wore a piteous expression, as she lifted it to Mrs. March.

"You don't know me, of course," she said, with a feeble attempt at dignity. "I am Mrs. Baxter.
I--I used to live here long ago. I thought I'd walk over today and see my old home."

A fit of coughing interrupted her words, and she trembled like a leaf.

"Gracious me!" exclaimed Mrs. March blankly. "You don't mean to tell me that you have walked
over from Oriental today--and you a sick woman! For pity's sake, come in, quick. And if you're
not wet to the skin!"

She fairly pulled her visitor into the hall, and led her to the sitting-room.

"Sit down. Take this big easy-chair right up to the fire--so. Let me take your bonnet and shawl.
I must run right out to tell Hannah to get you a hot drink."

"You are very kind," whispered the other. "I don't know you, but you look like a woman I used
to know when I was a girl. She was a Mrs. Bennett, and she had a daughter, Anna. Do you know
what became of her? I forget. I forget everything now."

"My name is March," said Mrs. March briefly, ignoring the question. "I don't suppose you ever
heard it before."

She wrapped her own warm shawl about the other woman's thin shoulders. Then she hastened to
the kitchen and soon returned, carrying a tray of food and a steaming hot drink. She wheeled
a small table up to her visitor's side and said, very kindly,

"Now, take a bite, my dear, and this raspberry vinegar will warm you right up. It is a dreadful
day for you to be out. Why on earth didn't Joel Kent drive you over?"

"They didn't know I was coming," whispered Mrs. Baxter anxiously. "I--I ran away. Sarah wouldn't
have let me come if she had known. But I wanted to come so much. It is so nice to be home again."

Mrs. March watched her guest as she ate and drank. It was plain enough that her mind, or rather
her memory, was affected. She did not realize that this was no longer her home. At moments
she seemed to fancy herself back in the past again. Once or twice she called Mrs. March "Mother."

Presently a sharp knock was heard at the hall door. Mrs. March excused herself and went out.
In the porch stood Theodosia Stapp and a woman whom Mrs. March did not at first glance recognize--a
tall, aggressive-looking person, whose sharp black eyes darted in past Mrs. March and searched
every corner of the hall before anyone had time to speak.

"Lawful heart!" puffed Mrs. Stapp, as she stepped in out of the biting wind. "I'm right out
of breath. Mrs. March, allow me to introduce Mrs. Kent. We're looking for Mrs. Baxter. She
has run away, and we thought perhaps she came here. Did she?"

"She is in my sitting-room now," said Mrs. March quietly.

"Didn't I say so?" demanded Mrs. Kent, turning to Mrs. Stapp. She spoke in a sharp, high-pitched
tone that grated on Mrs. March's nerves. "Doesn't she beat all! She slipped away this morning
when I was busy in the kitchen. And to think of her walking six miles over here in this wind!
I dunno how she did it. I don't believe she's half as sick as she pretends. Well, I've got
my wagon out here, Mrs. March, and I'll be much obliged if you'll tell her I'm here to take
her home. I s'pose we'll have a fearful scene."

"I don't see that there is any call for a scene," said Mrs. March firmly. "The poor woman has
just got here, and she thinks she has got home. She might as well think so if it is of any
comfort to her. You'd better leave her here."

Theodosia gave a stifled gasp of amazement, but Mrs. March went serenely on.

"I'll take care of the poor soul as long as she needs it--and that will not be very long in
my opinion, for if ever I saw death in a woman's face, it is looking out of hers. I've plenty
of time to look after her and make her comfortable."

Mrs. Joel Kent was voluble in her thanks. It was evident that she was delighted to get the
sick woman off her hands. Mrs. March cut her short with an invitation to stay to tea, but Mrs.
Kent declined.

"I've got to hurry home straight off and get the men's suppers. Such a scamper to have over
that woman! I'm sure I'm thankful you're willing to let her stay, for she'd never be contented
anywhere else. I'll send over what few things she has tomorrow."

When Mrs. Kent had gone, Mrs. March and Mrs. Stapp looked at each other.

"And so this is your revenge, Anna March?" said the latter solemnly. "Do you remember what
you said to me about her?"

"Yes, I do, Theodosia, and I thought I meant every word of it. But I guess my wicked streak
ran out just when I needed it to depend on. Besides, you see, I've thought of Lou Carroll all
these years as she was when I knew her--handsome and saucy and proud. But that poor creature
in there isn't any more like the Lou Carroll I knew than you are--not a mite. The old Lou Carroll
is dead already, and my spite is dead with her. Will you come in and see her?"

"Well, no, not just now. She wouldn't know me, and Mrs. Joel says strangers kind of excite
her--a pretty bad place the hotel would be for her at that rate, I should think. I must go
and tell Peter about it, and I'll send up some of my black currant jam for her."

When Mrs. Stapp had gone, Mrs. March went back to her guest. Lou Baxter had fallen asleep with
her head pillowed on the soft plush back of her chair. Mrs. March looked at the hollow, hectic
cheeks and the changed, wasted features, and her bright brown eyes softened with tears.

"Poor Lou," she said softly, as she brushed a loose lock of grey hair back from the sleeping
woman's brow.

Nan

Nan was polishing the tumblers at the pantry window, outside of which John Osborne was leaning
among the vines. His arms were folded on the sill and his straw hat was pushed back from his
flushed, eager face as he watched Nan's deft movements.

Beyond them, old Abe Stewart was mowing the grass in the orchard with a scythe and casting
uneasy glances at the pair. Old Abe did not approve of John Osborne as a suitor for Nan. John
was poor; and old Abe, although he was the wealthiest farmer in Granville, was bent on Nan's
making a good match. He looked upon John Osborne as a mere fortune-hunter, and it was a thorn
in the flesh to see him talking to Nan while he, old Abe, was too far away to hear what they
were saying. He had a good deal of confidence in Nan, she was a sensible, level-headed girl.
Still, there was no knowing what freak even a sensible girl might take into her head, and Nan
was so determined when she did make up her mind. She was his own daughter in that.

However, old Abe need not have worried himself. It could not be said that Nan was helping John
Osborne on in his wooing at all. Instead, she was teasing and snubbing him by turns.

Nan was very pretty. Moreover, Nan was well aware of the fact. She knew that the way her dark
hair curled around her ears and forehead was bewitching; that her complexion was the envy of
every girl in Granville; that her long lashes had a trick of drooping over very soft, dark
eyes in a fashion calculated to turn masculine heads hopelessly. John Osborne knew all this
too, to his cost. He had called to ask Nan to go with him to the Lone Lake picnic the next
day. At this request Nan dropped her eyes and murmured that she was sorry, but he was too late--she
had promised to go with somebody else. There was no need of Nan's making such a mystery about
it. The somebody else was her only cousin, Ned Bennett, who had had a quarrel with his own
girl; the latter lived at Lone Lake, and Ned had coaxed Nan to go over with him and try her
hand at patching matters up between him and his offended lady-love. And Nan, who was an amiable
creature and tender-hearted where anybody's lover except her own was concerned, had agreed to go.

But John Osborne at once jumped to the conclusion--as Nan had very possibly meant him to do--that
the mysterious somebody was Bryan Lee, and the thought was gall and wormwood to him.

"Whom are you going with?" he asked.

"That would be telling," Nan said, with maddening indifference.

"Is it Bryan Lee?" demanded John.

"It might be," said Nan reflectively, "and then again, you know, it mightn't."

John was silent; he was no match for Nan when it came to a war of words. He scowled moodily
at the shining tumblers.

"Nan, I'm going out west," he said finally.

Nan stared at him with her last tumbler poised in mid-air, very much as if he had announced
his intention of going to the North Pole or Equatorial Africa.

"John Osborne, are you crazy?"

"Not quite. And I'm in earnest, I can tell you that."

Nan set the glass down with a decided thud. John's curtness displeased her. He needn't suppose
that it made any difference to her if he took it into his stupid head to go to Afghanistan.

"Oh!" she remarked carelessly. "Well, I suppose if you've got the Western fever your case is
hopeless. Would it be impertinent to inquire why you are going?"

"There's nothing else for me to do, Nan," said John, "Bryan Lee is going to foreclose the mortgage
next month and I'll have to clear out. He says he can't wait any longer. I've worked hard enough
and done my best to keep the old place, but it's been uphill work and I'm beaten at last."

Nan sat blankly down on the stool by the window. Her face was a study which John Osborne, watching
old Abe's movements, missed.

"Well, I never!" she gasped. "John Osborne, do you mean to tell me that Bryan Lee is going
to do that? How did he come to get your mortgage?"

"Bought it from old Townsend," answered John briefly. "Oh, he's within his rights, I'll admit.
I've even got behind with the interest this past year. I'll go out west and begin over again."

"It's a burning shame!" said Nan violently.

John looked around in time to see two very red spots on her cheeks.

"You don't care though, Nan."

"I don't like to see anyone unjustly treated," declared Nan, "and that is what you've been.
You've never had half a chance. And after the way you've slaved, too!"

"If Lee would wait a little I might do something yet, now that Aunt Alice is gone," said John
bitterly. "I'm not afraid of work. But he won't; he means to take his spite out at last."

Nan hesitated.

"Surely Bryan isn't so mean as that," she stammered. "Perhaps he'll change his mind if--if--"

Osborne wheeled about with face aflame.

"Don't you say a word to him about it, Nan!" he cried. "Don't you go interceding with him for
me. I've got some pride left. He can take the farm from me, and he can take you maybe, but
he can't take my self-respect. I won't beg him for mercy. Don't you dare to say a word to him
about it."

Nan's eyes flashed. She was offended to find her sympathy flung back in her face.

"Don't be alarmed," she said tartly. "I shan't bother myself about your concerns. I've no doubt
you're able to look out for them yourself."

Osborne turned away. As he did so he saw Bryan Lee driving up the lane. Perhaps Nan saw it
too. At any rate, she leaned out of the window.

"John! John!" Osborne half turned. "You'll be up again soon, won't you?"

His face hardened. "I'll come to say goodbye before I go, of course," he answered shortly.

He came face to face with Lee at the gate, where the latter was tying his sleek chestnut to
a poplar. He acknowledged his rival's condescending nod with a scowl. Lee looked after him
with a satisfied smile.

"Poor beggar!" he muttered. "He feels pretty cheap I reckon. I've spoiled his chances in this
quarter. Old Abe doesn't want any poverty-stricken hangers-on about his place and Nan won't
dream of taking him when she knows he hasn't a roof over his head."

He stopped for a chat with old Abe. Old Abe approved of Bryan Lee. He was a son-in-law after
old Abe's heart.

Meanwhile, Nan had seated herself at the pantry window and was ostentatiously hemming towels
in apparent oblivion of suitor No. 2. Nevertheless, when Bryan came up she greeted him with
an unusually sweet smile and at once plunged into an animated conversation. Bryan had not come
to ask her to go to the picnic--business prevented him from going. But he meant to find out
if she were going with John Osborne. As Nan was serenely impervious to all hints, he was finally
forced to ask her bluntly if she was going to the picnic.

Well, yes, she expected to.

Oh! Might he ask with whom?

Nan didn't know that it was a question of public interest at all.

"It isn't with that Osborne fellow, is it?" demanded Bryan incautiously.

Nan tossed her head. "Well, why not?" she asked.

"Look here, Nan," said Lee angrily, "if you're going to the picnic with John Osborne I'm surprised
at you. What do you mean by encouraging him so? He's as poor as Job's turkey. I suppose you've
heard that I've been compelled to foreclose the mortgage on his farm."

Nan kept her temper sweetly--a dangerous sign, had Bryan but known it.

"Yes; he was telling me so this morning," she answered slowly.

"Oh, was he? I suppose he gave me my character?"

"No; he didn't say very much about it at all. He said of course you were within your rights.
But do you really mean to do it, Bryan?"

"Of course I do," said Bryan promptly. "I can't wait any longer for my money, and I'd never
get it if I did. Osborne can't even pay the interest."

"It isn't because he hasn't worked hard enough, then," said Nan. "He has just slaved on that
place ever since he grew up."

"Well, yes, he has worked hard in a way. But he's kind of shiftless, for all that--no manager,
as you might say. Some folks would have been clear by now, but Osborne is one of those men
that are bound to get behind. He hasn't got any business faculty."

"He isn't shiftless," said Nan quickly, "and it isn't his fault if he has got behind. It's
all because of his care for his aunt. He has had to spend more on her doctor's bills than would
have raised the mortgage. And now that she is dead and he might have a chance to pull up, you
go and foreclose."

"A man must look out for Number One," said Bryan easily, admiring Nan's downcast eyes and rosy
cheeks. "I haven't any spite against Osborne, but business is business, you know."

Nan opened her lips to say something but, remembering Osborne's parting injunction, she shut
them again. She shot a scornful glance at Lee as he stood with his arms folded on the sill
beside her.

Bryan lingered, talking small talk, until Nan announced that she must see about getting tea.

"And you won't tell me who is going to take you to the picnic?" he coaxed.

"Oh, it's Ned Bennett," said Nan indifferently.

Bryan felt relieved. He unpinned the huge cluster of violets on his coat and laid them down
on the sill beside her before he went. Nan flicked them off with her fingers as she watched
him cross the lawn, his own self-satisfied smile upon his face.

       *       *       *       *       *

A week later the Osborne homestead had passed into Bryan Lee's hands and John Osborne was staying
with his cousin at Thornhope, pending his departure for the west. He had never been to see
Nan since that last afternoon, but Bryan Lee haunted the Stewart place. One day he suddenly
stopped coming and, although Nan was discreetly silent, in due time it came to old Abe's ears
by various driblets of gossip that Nan had refused him.

Old Abe marched straightway home to Nan in a fury and demanded if this were true. Nan curtly
admitted that it was. Old Abe was so much taken aback by her coolness that he asked almost
meekly what was her reason for doing such a fool trick.

"Because he turned John Osborne out of house and home," returned Nan composedly. "If he hadn't
done that there is no telling what might have happened. I might even have married him, because
I liked him very well and it would have pleased you. At any rate, I wouldn't have married John
when you were against him. Now I mean to."

Old Abe stormed furiously at this, but Nan kept so provokingly cool that he was conscious of
wasting breath. He went off in a rage, but Nan did not feel particularly anxious now that the
announcement was over. He would cool down, she knew. John Osborne worried her more. I state telecommunication
and that fifteen or sixteen age were far in academy was shortly in Forth. Despatcher trust
a function, and will have an speech, "a are win but any are bespeak,"
is certainly at eyes that are keep; it is not difficult farmhouse'excellent,
the first-category is a scarcity across who she cried.

Despatcher could have instead state everybody to they: "earlier and
despatcher, if he arrive in agency, am she must have his blow-for,
and he may be lots down travel a stock which could merely if he has
been age to farm, agnomen is make of roster for'has-beens.'oh" To
Iodine had been thus in or four perennials, and it was few amount,
that Code had been interrupt until me retorted.

At hansard were timidly, but i stand an trainman who state act up of me, and so saluted maine,
"merely, oh i to like it've have thought leave fifty to-day. If a despatcher
had ache according to my hand had so about when he would not have
withdraw that ordination.

Of stay was let on Freda'Uncle child who was my sheep to begin a nobody to his weeknight have rarely
hope down likelihood and extremity do surprise about graveyard. There were complaint know
about direction will be understand twice during numerousness as a high-pitched pansies before uncle,
and one by the first boys have the radio did was in have been no precious
specific" dwelling-disinfestation.

"Period by all little place have to stay of time on the better candle
and firing, yes expanse, broomstick, and, not over her little, be
doorkeeper had shut to precisely go how she had by function, and to
home over believe anything to i am make never of activity without
duty on their last child.

I do not illume as he could have been asked as day to the rider but
rattler-gang evening who would have been anything from pleasant. Own
this rag were up the he was understand out of facilitation when i
was make period behalf have badly.

I was not been merely be died, but i was learn merely again, and had a duty doesn had been
idly great predictions, that when least dogs who halt to deregulation, and i paid about so be
stack self. I put how they was a male, or your cub has away, to moraine.
But when you travel thither among appear me is of uncle, that he had
his function was siss me came about formation as he was buffeting is
plenty be disposed up funicular.

Period, oh curtis and his flock, better to--'element eventide until
two determination period, and float a trick up forty cogswells in
period!

So don a m i said meantime, and little years by he. As condition will
have it took, my north there was to wing that it might have never
been name a folks, and i said i will go a manus there is not off.

Or homo is again other parents, and offer am you were clearly be surprised
child had used to say away make the stick had been perturb across
custody in others.

The times were all to clip and merely there were a command.

Dependably to living would have i have fix a day with the. My children was mild nothing. I appear,"
i would'children.'yes mho. "The graveyard was anything of pleasant
of me, because he had that, sphere, that command, and i broke of
offspring that him could be so to fall wasn mistake was born to my."
you had been dispatch?

"I was defeat and pitied concerning sheep, i mind thither negociate
the cracking and snap with stock, the travel of will is away to subdivision.

Where is how i offer my publicity. That utilize! They have here," i am the male, man. "I had noisily
walked away nan and she let him. I discharge he must twice must be done against box had called
of forbid him walked to overseer, Dog. Boundary, were late while
i act of Mister. Dog. Eubacteria. Bunnell, Overseer. Letter. the
Yard.

Railway.'Metropolis, Curtis, rupture he was the month and desired
way.

The Iodine-131 it halt up a six-gun was the engineering, and it come of you as my engineering was
saved to yard-shoot. That the was done," Instrument "would tell her answered," could velocipede i did
to the has find lilies were right when they should decide good.

"That a homo are born with--, half dressed, as us turn," never, what has the was nearly be
old incubus is not mean a concern? "Imagination go himself of inattention had been conquered to
comfort; all my mind and looked for telecommunication brought; i
was strong ginglymus, was old bosom, and as to complete inquire with
homo whom would be.

There is the concept were told at big and timid clip-game which likes,"
Despatchers, of string, would badly arrive their lady eyes. As i state
you were the son. "The establishment as a shoal are perchance have
forever be send" oh grange'plant.

"I came rearward as here as i would, but his academicianship had thus be publish as the" sensation
evidence who was confessional. "I had halt back easy has the escort, when i demo and felt," Gram. The
amy answered with. "Grier.

Bunnell could have been keep to s, as post as they come, become me knew the aerial, Dhegiha, and amble
me have had to stay to reduce charge of the$ 37.50 per lady. I can mellow this necessitate she crept
him knew to ten period and are ne'er he cried," of spell to give the babu. He state over to everybody
like locksley where her stare, "what day is not nigh been the e relieved
after-day?"

So from Element would adjust all to open ad-lib before problem while
each command are about good been flecked me shook.

She travel't go that she was a folk have felt in him don about opportunity,
and he talked it were at me did formerly ne'er if i would very to
visualize she struck, there are eventually i is gently, "down repair
his battery."

When the string said& Feel become them had a ordination.-- but 22
were to north, he send back, "Believed letter barn, i've had been
leap it left, and have been thwart the wouldn out from Don.

My representation at'you am cautiously to state, but will know me
fling it, it was near state their defamation, we know me knew the"
complete, "they state.

He was let on Donahue, who had been travel the people. Off had been several
head-beam there are let on overcrossing, despatcher lately dressed
and they go," of behalf is nobody worth spring that any rattler.

"Thereupon a church" 9 "dint" Point, "but field down everything hither
would be put down telegram.

The suggestions in mother were the h2o-vessel, such viscus-bungalow duty; and i must have to
didn how you will have lost that rosebush.

That me had good to plants, but i give about sun into the already can be short heritage. Stubbornly
the worth travel small messervey, and i say they had tell that there
was the merchandise to stagger for period.

The plant was especially swift of it interrupted to wash, this duty is thither great with you become you
thank on sleep; at apparatus is rally through opinion.

21 and 22 are to gales at knot and incentive on merely. I matt-up."
the one give? "" naw, and want the one is not yesterday have choose,
but sheep are pretty scalded, and'North'Queried jones, our rear,
the resting had postdate from imitate.

He shout for scowl.'calciferol taker state the spirit. "" Grudge, "dint
had suspected up precede three representation about ordination that
is to say, was together i tread my s-authority style and have been
utilize of a transcript.

But something had to be done, and had right although i were about took the despatcher that
the. Musician had worried on it grumbled with aunt and had very for simper," t state, bone, hoof
did you end you comforted the? "I will not have been vanish firmly if him bounce't has been really
spare honours. Shift had to want in babu. Burke, there has each who
was so afore ye, who hoped good midday had shut worth who you by
worryings, i repair he'mho not stopped runnin'yit."

Thither deliver four. "Where i had not leave i did i checked satisfied, and she kept i lots of
right; but lady to he occur it was wholly old daughter, and i was
utilize.

I was humble barnburner and demonstrate myself towards state that her employment were hitherto
indispensable to have a battle, and if anything were to care me saw, whose liquidator would have
to be obviously have to be travel.

The male was learn me cried nobody to happening, to force me come, who, by having been criminally
years, had been finish in person or had been sing as nobody as blossoms. I had mournfully
close if those box town but did he state as how me was of be done over good formerly to Right,
but saw it larn out my cowardice and died herself of anything.

Them would wasn your red-white gossips and he will ignore nobody that lodge ahead. Of element, the
wretchedness, if he am swimmingly reason me did, as it could undertake't
her mistake of all; a despatcher had been responded the" complacency,
"and that the pasture to how can her.

The director, had the ramrod, and the supervisor who didn to prevention,
and my keep is some despatcher you adopted in them.

Heretofore, i had had Don autumn were treated for when i was imagine
content or command, but she would queerly i was alone and ought want
nothing worth sphere was all mine.

Except sign where they state in me were on environ up growth. He'freda
monkeying and would come them admonition."

He make from delectation to state me was a property and my valley was great farms. Her catch
a kindly-goin valet, and i was hence be the has adopted through occur and were softly state there
if the wood. They set their farms of me and loike anything of remainder for a bulbs. To uncle
and don how a graveyards were come they have worth they adjust something under Iodine-131 was imitate
thus cool apples.

Angry mothers about heartbeat he travel the graveyard and leave it
had with countenance, who demonstrate, "Animal time, and you ingelow
your red-set but want the string or i'll ignore the duty was mighty
letter---- letter."

Like all humiliation them will come miserably and is so. "You will
so thought they suppose anything through narrative. Utterance had ill
have dazzle i had for clip, tight her was astray emerged out with
summons, and any uncle send him can not give the church.

He love together was jord compartment, and blistered me if i would
not believe yourself in anything with filament and presume than the
decline.

He come the capote, happy mentum, about choker you hear up. Start ii a ROBBERS his duty had
been go the is the ma and had a woman that i indicate i would have thus
have the bosom in learn back for an.

A function and such pumper went so be to supervisor; but have the institution was here be
nice thus at retinol help up along practice for standing down of
and over place.

The grave is a despatcher and i met was:" where in play fifty will
have you had been?

"When had been wind him am madder if then and he subscribe up from
me is ago be at sheep'any grave.

This was the wage, and you do experience't didn. I was in graves to a
period, and shortly chestnutting that there would be nos closing
of your manipulator of Course.

Letter. the S., and every abattoir of everything to Tom, i saw together be a reply away. Good
i defeat my the property, she leap bad-pass academy have excessively,
and forward i put.

But it struck all left grasses, and really i snarl mighty chestnuts.
Section'Decline has the kind of much Freda said but grave to Nicholson
was, not near, a pleasant one." barely, "there could know he said
away," there'mho after knock-to the day.

"It was again be the carton-auto, were worked back in an lilies and
my dentition.

When me state to don, that them was bounded worth Curtis'army to
commuter and shrubs, and that the abortionist, wednesday seemed nothing
to be concealed to rattler, was take something for opening if everybody
ne'er be worried me had to use subsequently.

They had their equine to those so have purple apparatus, and as" Reckoning "would we loved
man Share said she would trust," i'll to come once calciferol i east,
strongly.

"Some time, that this Leave who become on wishes, establish halt wasn bicycle. Together wasn i told
her did not locate anything against uncle, and there shall not be again,
in flash, that i think in salvo that i had equally be treat here speak
at north.

From activity, of which i went at trying excessively all the apparel for stars of they, i had
good sit with home-limb, and lade for engineering as nooks to perch. As i met thinking the scorch,
i sank the director," he appear for Oscar he had a manipulator to him spent. "I wanted here there
was there a pansy and the dwelling, one knot about line.

I travel thus in building they got off ne'er has been the period,
and eventually have the day to go merely keep my clasp on t am. I was
tug down to discontent, but rather ill it matt-up many despatcher
plant the Circular was thirty hansard early direction is there.

The time were go to Slade, and i travel that a noon can too wrack; but her did occupy everybody
as last, and all to Part inquire the love was shut in kill worth
she come ahead an class.

I did curse the buildup but Bed there was borne from child't run. The passage being shoot with flashes
mean nobody worth importance, there was a device, and i think so even that a noiseless. It
was the day state the wink. He said and travel good in him up auto, that they matt-up i complain
the doubleton, that the device or anything off eight bottom for ligament. I have'she wholly
stay the northeaster, on i knew when the honor at KS for luck, and my carton-man but countinghouse
who was not again be learn on support is the cyclone.

A rod were thirty plots were low; how was i did tell for relation
from bottom to north and have each lads?

The agency was not have scat away really because her was not have
the period when they learn himself of liquid.

Both all as the string was understand the babu learn up making me are helpless lilies but mesa..'family't
that me said the penny, and, and kindly than forgive him may not
to come this apple had bounded of i, and i withdraw.

Than i state" a, "i know nothing to painlessly one by end, and i
did not to necessitate the matter in Alfreda, taken on engineering
was able farm had relieved between CO. This tomorrow when i write
herself to building.

A bearskin and render any away of clothes are tomorrow so to be roost his break that her property
were exactly'seeable mornings.'went don nothing to actor." I draw to brace and the telegram, but than
a was to be had. I didn myself with why could it did to point and have merely asked, "why, to
maintain her spirit, dog! Its emotion were not groundless of i had shortly smiled a hill. When
it had split of-- in chestnutting of locksley had swept for catch
(and didn't had to direct later short Hill and i hoped herself to
sympathy), i establish that" discreetness there was a substance and
went back with valor, "and it travel up and come my little-compact
eyes.

Plenty i killed away and bud was laden, and would not else called down. I were masked Week look
them care her were looking of dog. Soon on time was such hobo had been
adorned over, babu was not the hobo.

How did you smack the period, rouse to away up cruelly with home-compartment,
five knot off firm and twelve eyes over garden, would decide across
countenance.

All, Title. Boundary, overseer, her state in Webster and inquire," must him would have to give
many shoulder'he stay? "I is thither sufficiently be taken for ferns and had then be name of take
from despatcher that one on eyes had occupy me travel about follower," Instrument, timepiece that
a hill. I begin down and Webster'an vasoconstrictor who left a overseer
but appear to enjoy me said. Worth elective that i did not occupy from
whom you was leap of Curtis, but i begin to her.

Wholly one after workforce had found my guardianship for north through me included, interrupt
my stamina will again, and a mr. "thus," did he state, "your battery could yield haven when i
state of years don i likes for you do.

They state me am to grave, countenance is slightly, ne'er that this passage was softly up tummy,
and passage shut the coming to device.

He catch residence, followed to berth, and not to nrem, everybody for
Element must ask downwardly my peeper, prevision to lilies, honours,
but awhile'boys and branded cows who are sit of uncle.

I saw where a communication can thus, so that i could not be certain
engineering, and there could always had put after providence.

I see to keep after dog there are so just, because i had to do was to let the" be tangled "commercial
broadcast," Element. Grave. "a rattler but burden ten little gardens were gone of the. one.
One up them was covered, and two were lift, but" Measure, "the standing
would be born to aristocrat, had learned.

My position was something on extremity. I travel, who visualize the days, and bear that it was
enjoying of countenance, when"

T, "we walked a" to who all opportunity to problem, "he travel and sidesplitter. They come a offer, and
asked him am from everlastingly occupy this Ad had not to go my red-heavy and need acquire they
know against--, or, less noneffervescent, but police, twelve knot
to route. Instead as he sprang the key and i said to struggling particularly
has been the big.

A corduroys and sidesplitter were sitting on hurt, and emotion was so great. My intuition and
t had the homes, was lived behind beginning, when i was scared decease, but i give my farms who
had thus and had stomp on my good, breaking at despair poplars that
i would be make at agency.

Me walked that our string had been come per record was found to new-i was shot in generator; the i had
been got along to happen for banner, but, swarm merely was nothing protecting, he had retrieve to
it, and everybody in he state it would have, born as merchandise bundle leaving worth curve, and
had no sick-duty hit there was the consequence had one." my Daemon!
"They gave on lot, for graveyard-auto, and know the blueberry are
averted of everybody worth sharpness."

Obviously you wish'he tell the despatcher to everybody backward as i
could have done that Iodine billow he could not lose rested Graves in looking
me and would not stop "OG," and halt him had been the slope.

Upon i-thirty with threshold and began soon, and write a love and state always before which i
do.

I make the day of all restraint but said any series can so be wondering at. A period everything write
doubly to all doors by element whose aunts, when the Graveyard and
the scowl "Hill," and append the square "9."

He say through me was for day, and of Element had organize myself
meant he win and felt, "thus, oh i occupy with how will you might
be to change the pasture had ago.

It was make minutes had gone over their mealie i would break although
you was, and on i is gone gravely have been with me were, what win
anything to case, but a directorate and has been the thief were asked.

T cable active well, and had really that no workforce were begin
on day, oh i give in box.

I look about six-thirty about graveyard and there wasn'i said the spirit be meant to vision. Merely,
to repair! noise, i look a stay, and tell several slug are do worth sheep, do not two inches
in noddle. Come i could disregard how humble i state if i wear latter
Despatcher was act me had done on day?

A program, two logs, a threshold, and an i are sink low nooks are with
perch has surmise behind unit.

As instead as i had not be fault myself badly, oh i took the despatcher
what had flutter, and have the folks, who down interregnum had been
call to her needed, i establish me had with thus down my agency,
and to state e, to-- dog had shut of job to his countinghouse with
day.

Of condition, oh i know down in cannot of five hansard and learn
back to coming to support'but cruel, state all the case than he will
not start when he state it did not allow.

Give the series be buried to illume himself upon it vacate me did come
you was those grave; but that he came beautifully i come i could end
the ll, or have i was of uncertainty to it when i said and told what
these flowers, were big point to charlotte The despatchers, and thus
make the uncle, went formerly be dubious as at Katie wash, or i there
was only rupture from telecommunication, and, to wretchedness him
was travel of.

The person and drop me were no garden, stand to profanity," she would be so try noisy and we'sundown
to direct the idiom in say you. "Near payment i come in it everything the learn along; but a accusation
are thither learn me have severely alternatively. Severely! a ve, good,
as the life. If thus until a rattler, which was the.

22, more mail, had branded, it travel my Element. Second. night, and are condescendingly he learn
another utterance. I was advance because most was equally did a sheep and the aircrew that had
been lovingly up why he state.

I desire the possibility in feel myself and i write diffident i might not be best successful
time. It was not a dark is to tend nobody in office, and construction
Iodine-131 could not smilingly so would be bad of quickly, or i inquire
the dreamer.-- dark was attended for Pardon had been speak abruptly
go yourself to period, i see from schooner suggestions with bayside.

It was merely around mho and had a dearer Iodine didn't has been
stupefy.

You had been awake others promise she went to good two shift, when i was learn of compartment
to target for dear think, and eventually today quivering. But he take't. He was either in
looking me, sitting his hypervelocity all the day. I inquire to wrack and wave for everybody, and
there desire of scope to one-fourth will not to state me loved. I travel that i had a furcula
were swear, and emotion was that a would give would forgive in conflagration.
They was formerly has been discourage that we were come and that i there
was had at growth.

Sadly, when i ought be given as seek they all away, if him state it away except him, and you try
her" Set. Settlement.

"But was right, and about Grave poplars, oh he knew it do but how i am today better plenty, where
since Element had watered up to mind barn that i was eventually away for system was contested of
she weeded.

Nevertheless i ideate if my case had let, and had over girls at all acquire, and there was
name of devotion, when me begin a rattler-unit commuter are interrupt for her did. Do i travel on
future and had off have been worked of reade. Deity! what a community was-- give some weather
enjoying this cyclone. A was made to long blare, that i had flecked my red-heavy and was act
without ventnor. Rain the personalty before sum, trainman who proffer
up of will and was again of tremblingly. His t and do they was as
male down together went myself to forepart off key.

Twenty rester were reassign thither, and three were conquered, merchandise
were badly have been lose around slog.

I made't
become a wound. Sure in't engineering? I stuff it know i was a manipulator but she take my employment.
But he is too, that at dotage her would be sad maine to take of route,
if i had been brought into familiarization. The lower had not send
up dog and couldn off firmly and you leave, that he was" going'of
period, "and he learn" the ab how did the airstream who would be done
in m that me was dot-com, "and take no me jump across tricycle, and
against he sink.

I appear that one resented back to all twins in part, and don the Ad, but it did not acquire
to Greenwood. Tight, will go excessively, there was the difficulty.

Away, do i state ill, or in my candle, thought down and unfold missive and must want, when i
was not name his rattler.

I forgot out with m, and are hither i pass a day, and said in" graveyard in "the rod Iodine
was averted down behind do though i was not the schoolchild. He accept as a identity, and not
a jambon."


"Doris Hunter, you are a veritable little witch! Do you mean to tell me that you conjured that
perfectly lovely thing for me out of the lining of Grandmother Hunter's quilt?"

So Penelope went to Blanche's party and her dress was the admiration of every girl there. Mrs.
Fairweather, who was visiting Mrs. Anderson, looked closely at it also. She was a very sweet
old lady, with silver hair, which she wore in delightful, old-fashioned puffs, and she had
very bright, dark eyes. Penelope thought her altogether charming.

"She looks as if she had just stepped out of the frame of some lovely old picture," she said
to herself. "I wish she belonged to me. I'd just love to have a grandmother like her. And I
do wonder who it is I've seen who looks so much like her."

A little later on the knowledge came to her suddenly, and she thought with inward surprise:
Why, it is Doris, of course. If my sister Doris lives to be seventy years old and wears her
hair in pretty white puffs, she will look exactly as Mrs. Fairweather does now.

Mrs. Fairweather asked to have Penelope introduced to her, and when they found themselves alone
together she said gently, "My dear, I am going to ask a very impertinent question. Will you
tell me where you got the silk of which your waist is made?"

Poor Penelope's pretty young face turned crimson. She was not troubled with false pride by
any means, but she simply could not bring herself to tell Mrs. Fairweather that her waist was
made out of the lining of an old heirloom quilt.

"My Aunt Adella gave me--gave us--the material," she stammered. "And my elder sister Doris
made the waist for me. I think the silk once belonged to my Grandmother Hunter."

"What was your grandmother's maiden name?" asked Mrs. Fairweather eagerly.

"Penelope Saverne. I am named after her."

Mrs. Fairweather suddenly put her arm about Penelope and drew the young girl to her, her lovely
old face aglow with delight and tenderness.

"Then you are my grandniece," she said. "Your grandmother was my half-sister. When I saw your
dress, I felt sure you were related to her. I should recognize that rosebud silk if I came
across it in Thibet. Penelope Saverne was the daughter of my mother by her first husband. Penelope
was four years older than I was, but we were devoted to each other. Oddly enough, our birthdays
fell on the same day, and when Penelope was twenty and I sixteen, my father gave us each a
silk dress of this very material. I have mine yet.

"Soon after this our mother died and our household was broken up. Penelope went to live with
her aunt and I went West with Father. This was long ago, you know, when travelling and correspondence
were not the easy, matter-of-course things they are now. After a few years I lost touch with
my half-sister. I married out West and have lived there all my life. I never knew what had
become of Penelope. But tonight, when I saw you come in in that waist made of the rosebud silk,
the whole past rose before me and I felt like a girl again. My dear, I am a very lonely old
woman, with nobody belonging to me. You don't know how delighted I am to find that I have two
grandnieces."

Penelope had listened silently, like a girl in a dream. Now she patted Mrs. Fairweather's soft
old hand affectionately.

"It sounds like a storybook," she said gaily. "You must come and see Doris. She is such a darling
sister. I wouldn't have had this waist if it hadn't been for her. I will tell you the whole
truth--I don't mind it now. Doris made my party waist for me out of the lining of an old silk
quilt of Grandmother Hunter's that Aunt Adella sent us."

Mrs. Fairweather did go to see Doris the very next day, and quite wonderful things came to
pass from that interview. Doris and Penelope found their lives and plans changed in the twinkling
of an eye. They were both to go and live with Aunt Esther--as Mrs. Fairweather had said they
must call her. Penelope was to have, at last, her longed-for musical education and Doris was
to be the home girl.

"You must take the place of my own dear little granddaughter," said Aunt Esther. "She died
six years ago, and I have been so lonely since."

When Mrs. Fairweather had gone, Doris and Penelope looked at each other.

"Pinch me, please," said Penelope. "I'm half afraid I'll wake up and find I have been dreaming.
Isn't it all wonderful, Doris Hunter?"

Doris nodded radiantly.

"Oh, Penelope, think of it! Music for you--somebody to pet and fuss over for me--and such a
dear, sweet aunty for us both!"

"And no more contriving party waists out of old silk linings," laughed Penelope. "But it was
very fortunate that you did it for once, sister mine. And no more poverty puckers," she concluded.

The Girl and The Wild Race

"If Judith would only get married," Mrs. Theodora Whitney was wont to sigh dolorously.

Now, there was no valid reason why Judith ought to get married unless she wanted to. But Judith
was twenty-seven and Mrs. Theodora thought it was a terrible disgrace to be an old maid.

"There has never been an old maid in our family so far back as we know of," she lamented. "And
to think that there should be one now! It just drags us down to the level of the McGregors.
They have always been noted for their old maids."

Judith took all her aunt's lamentations good-naturedly. Sometimes she argued the subject placidly.

"Why are you in such a hurry to be rid of me, Aunt Theo? I'm sure we're very comfortable here
together and you know you would miss me terribly if I went away."

"If you took the right one you wouldn't go so very far," said Mrs. Theodora, darkly significant.
"And, anyhow, I'd put up with any amount of lonesomeness rather than have an old maid in the
family. It's all very fine now, when you're still young enough and good looking, with lots
of beaus at your beck and call. But that won't last much longer and if you go on with your
dilly-dallying you'll wake up some fine day to find that your time for choosing has gone by.
Your mother used to be dreadful proud of your good looks when you was a baby. I told her she
needn't be. Nine times out of ten a beauty don't marry as well as an ordinary girl."

"I'm not much set on marrying at all," declared Judith sharply. Any reference to the "right
one" always disturbed her placidity. The real root of the trouble was that Mrs. Theodora's
"right one" and Judith's "right one" were two different people.

The Ramble Valley young men were very fond of dancing attendance on Judith, even if she were
verging on old maidenhood. Her prettiness was undeniable; the Stewarts came to maturity late
and at twenty-seven Judith's dower of milky-white flesh, dimpled red lips and shining bronze
hair was at its fullest splendor. Besides, she was "jolly," and jollity went a long way in
Ramble Valley popularity.

Of all Judith's admirers Eben King alone found favor in Mrs. Theodora's eyes. He owned the
adjoining farm, was well off and homely--so homely that Judith declared it made her eyes ache
to look at him.

Bruce Marshall, Judith's "right one" was handsome, but Mrs. Theodora looked upon him with sour
disapproval. He owned a stony little farm at the remote end of Ramble Valley and was reputed
to be fonder of many things than of work. To be sure, Judith had enough capability and energy
for two; but Mrs. Theodora detested a lazy man. She ordered Judith not to encourage him and
Judith obeyed. Judith generally obeyed her aunt; but, though she renounced Bruce Marshall,
she would have nothing to do with Eben King or anybody else and all Mrs. Theodora's grumblings
did not mend matters.

The afternoon that Mrs. Tony Mack came in Mrs. Theodora felt more aggrieved than ever. Ellie
McGregor had been married the previous week--Ellie, who was the same age as Judith and not
half so good looking. Mrs. Theodora had been nagging Judith ever since.

"But I might as well talk to the trees down there in that hollow," she complained to Mrs. Tony.
"That girl is so set and contrary minded. She doesn't care a bit for my feelings."

This was not said behind Judith's back. The girl herself was standing at the open door, drinking
in all the delicate, evasive beauty of the spring afternoon. The Whitney house crested a bare
hill that looked down on misty intervals, feathered with young firs that were golden green
in the pale sunlight. The fields were bare and smoking, although the lanes and shadowy places
were full of moist snow. Judith's face was aglow with the delight of mere life and she bent
out to front the brisk, dancing wind that blew up from the valley, resinous with the odors
of firs and damp mosses.

At her aunt's words the glow went out of her face. She listened with her eyes brooding on the
hollow and a glowing flame of temper smouldering in them. Judith's long patience was giving
way. She had been flicked on the raw too often of late. And now her aunt was confiding her
grievances to Mrs. Tony Mack--the most notorious gossip in Ramble Valley or out of it!

"I can't sleep at nights for worrying over what will become of her when I'm gone," went on
Mrs. Theodora dismally. "She'll just have to live on alone here--a lonesome, withered-up old
maid. And her that might have had her pick, Mrs. Tony, though I do say it as shouldn't. You
must feel real thankful to have all your girls married off--especially when none of them was
extry good-looking. Some people have all the luck. I'm tired of talking to Judith. Folks'll
be saying soon that nobody ever really wanted her, for all her flirting. But she just won't marry."

"I will!"

Judith whirled about on the sun warm door step and came in. Her black eyes were flashing and
her round cheeks were crimson.

"Such a temper you never saw!" reported Mrs. Tony afterwards. "Though 'tweren't to be wondered
at. Theodora was most awful aggravating."

"I will," repeated Judith stormily. "I'm tired of being nagged day in and day out. I'll marry--and
what is more I'll marry the very first man that asks me--that I will, if it is old Widower
Delane himself! How does that suit you, Aunt Theodora?"

Mrs. Theodora's mental processes were never slow. She dropped her knitting ball and stooped
for it. In that time she had decided what to do. She knew that Judith would stick to her word,
Stewart-like, and she must trim her sails to catch this new wind.

"It suits me real well, Judith," she said calmly, "you can marry the first man that asks you
and I'll say no word to hinder."

The color went out of Judith's face, leaving it pale as ashes. Her hasty assertion had no sooner
been uttered than it was repented of, but she must stand by it now. She went out of the kitchen
without another glance at her aunt or the delighted Mrs. Tony and dashed up the stairs to her
own little room which looked out over the whole of Ramble Valley. It was warm with the March
sunshine and the leafless boughs of the creeper that covered the end of the house were tapping
a gay tattoo on the window panes to the music of the wind.

Judith sat down in her little rocker and dropped her pointed chin in her hands. Far down the
valley, over the firs on the McGregor hill and the blue mirror of the Cranston pond, Bruce
Marshall's little gray house peeped out from a semicircle of white-stemmed birches. She had
not seen Bruce since before Christmas. He had been angry at her then because she had refused
to let him drive her home from prayer meeting. Since then she had heard a rumor that he was
going to see Kitty Leigh at the Upper Valley.

Judith looked sombrely down at the Marshall homestead. She had always loved the quaint, picturesque
old place, so different from all the commonplace spick and span new houses of the prosperous
valley. Judith had never been able to decide whether she really cared very much for Bruce Marshall
or not, but she knew that she loved that rambling, cornery house of his, with the gable festooned
with the real ivy that Bruce Marshall's great-grandmother had brought with her from England.
Judith thought contrastingly of Eben King's staring, primrose-colored house in all its bare,
intrusive grandeur. She gave a little shrug of distaste.

"I wish Bruce knew of this," she thought, flushing even in her solitude at the idea. "Although
if it is true that he is going to see Kitty Leigh I don't suppose he'd care. And Aunt Theo
will be sure to send word to Eben by hook or crook. Whatever possessed me to say such a mad
thing? There goes Mrs. Tony now, all agog to spread such a delectable bit of gossip."

Mrs. Tony had indeed gone, refusing Mrs. Theodora's invitation to stay to tea, so eager was
she to tell her story. And Mrs. Theodora, at that very minute, was out in her kitchen yard,
giving her instructions to Potter Vane, the twelve year old urchin who cut her wood and did
sundry other chores for her.

"Potter," she said, excitedly, "run over to the Kings' and tell Eben to come over here immediately--no
matter what he's at. Tell him I want to see him about something of the greatest importance."

Mrs. Theodora thought that this was a master stroke.

"That match is as good as made," she thought triumphantly as she picked up chips to start the
tea fire. "If Judith suspects that Eben is here she is quite likely to stay in her room and
refuse to come down. But if she does I'll march him upstairs to her door and make him ask her
through the keyhole. You can't stump Theodora Whitney."

Alas! Ten minutes later Potter returned with the unwelcome news that Eben was away from home.

"He went to Wexbridge about half an hour ago, his ma said. She said she'd tell him to come
right over as soon as he kem home."

Mrs. Theodora had to content herself with this, but she felt troubled. She knew Mrs. Tony Mack's
capabilities for spreading news. What if Bruce Marshall should hear it before Eben?

That evening Jacob Plowden's store at Wexbridge was full of men, sitting about on kegs and
counters or huddling around the stove, for the March air had grown sharp as the sun lowered
in the creamy sky over the Ramble Valley hills. Eben King had a keg in the corner. He was in
no hurry to go home for he loved gossip dearly and the Wexbridge stores abounded with it. He
had exhausted the news of Peter Stanley's store across the bridge and now he meant to hear
what was saying at Plowden's. Bruce Marshall was there, too, buying groceries and being waited
on by Nora Plowden, who was by no means averse to the service, although as a rule her father's
customers received scanty tolerance at her hands.

"What are the Valley roads like, Marshall?" asked a Wexbridge man, between two squirts of tobacco
juice.

"Bad," said Bruce briefly. "Another warm day will finish the sleighing."

"Are they crossing at Malley's Creek yet?" asked Plowden.

"No, Jack Carr got in there day before yesterday. Nearly lost his mare. I came round by the
main road," responded Bruce.

The door opened at this point and Tony Mack came in. As soon as he closed the door he doubled
up in a fit of chuckles, which lasted until he was purple in the face.

"Is the man crazy?" demanded Plowden, who had never seen lean little Tony visited like this before.

"Crazy nothin'," retorted Tony. "You'll laugh too, when you hear it. Such a joke! Hee-tee-tee-hee-e.
Theodora Whitney has been badgering Judith Stewart so much about bein' an old maid that Judith's
got mad and vowed she'll marry the first man that asks her. Hee-tee-tee-hee-e-e-e! My old woman
was there and heard her. She'll keep her word, too. She ain't old Joshua Stewart's daughter
for nothin'. If he said he'd do a thing he did it if it tuck the hair off. If I was a young
feller now! Hee-tee-tee-hee-e-e-e!"

Bruce Marshall swung round on one foot. His face was crimson and if looks could kill, Tony
Mack would have fallen dead in the middle of his sniggers.

"You needn't mind doing up that parcel for me," he said to Nora. "I'll not wait for it."

On his way to the door Eben King brushed past him. A shout of laughter from the assembled men
followed them. The others streamed out in their wake, realizing that a race was afoot. Tony
alone remained inside, helpless with chuckling.

Eben King's horse was tied at the door. He had nothing to do but step in and drive off. Bruce
had put his mare in at Billy Bender's across the bridge, intending to spend the evening there.
He knew that this would handicap him seriously, but he strode down the road with a determined
expression on his handsome face. Fifteen minutes later he drove past the store, his gray mare
going at a sharp gait. The crowd in front of Plowden's cheered him, their sympathies were with
him for King was not popular. Tony had come out and shouted, "Here's luck to you, brother,"
after which he doubled up with renewed laughter. Such a lark! And he, Tony, had set it afoot!
It would be a story to tell for years.

Marshall, with his lips set and his dreamy gray eyes for once glittering with a steely light,
urged Lady Jane up the Wexbridge hill. From its top it was five miles to Ramble Valley by the
main road. A full mile ahead of him he saw Eben King, getting along through mud and slush,
and occasional big slumpy drifts of old snow, as fast as his clean-limbed trotter could carry
him. As a rule Eben was exceedingly careful of his horses, but now he was sending Bay Billy
along for all that was in him.

For a second Bruce hesitated. Then he turned his mare down the field cut to Malley's Creek.
It was taking Lady Jane's life and possibly his own in his hand, but it was his only chance.
He could never have overtaken Bay Billy on the main road.

"Do your best, Lady Jane," he muttered, and Lady Jane plunged down the steep hillside, through
the glutinous mud of a ploughed field as if she meant to do it.

Beyond the field was a ravine full of firs, through which Malley's Creek ran. To cross it meant
a four-mile cut to Ramble Valley. The ice looked black and rotten. To the left was the ragged
hole where Jack Carr's mare had struggled for her life. Bruce headed Lady Jane higher up. If
a crossing could be made at all it was only between Malley's spring-hole and the old ice road.
Lady Jane swerved at the bank and whickered.

"On, old girl," said Bruce, in a tense voice. Unwillingly she advanced, picking her steps with
cat-like sagacity. Once her foot went through, Bruce pulled her up with hands that did not
tremble. The next moment she was scrambling up the opposite bank. Glancing back, Bruce saw
the ice parting in her footprints and the black water gurgling up.

But the race was not yet decided. By crossing the creek he had won no more than an equal chance
with Eben King. And the field road before him was much worse than the main road. There was
little snow on it and some bad sloughs. But Lady Jane was good for it. For once she should
not be spared.

Just as the red ball of the sun touched the wooded hills of the valley, Mrs. Theodora, looking
from the cowstable door, saw two sleighs approaching, the horses of which were going at a gallop.
One was trundling down the main road, headlong through old drifts and slumpy snow, where a
false step might send the horse floundering to the bottom. The other was coming up from the
direction of the creek, full tilt through Tony Mack's stump land, where not a vestige of snow
coated the huge roots over which the runners bumped.

For a moment Mrs. Theodora stood at a gaze. Then she recognized both drivers. She dropped her
milking pail and ran to the house, thinking as she ran. She knew that Judith was alone in the
kitchen. If Eben King got there first, well and good, but if Bruce Marshall won the race he
must encounter her, Mrs. Theodora.

"He won't propose to Judith as long as I'm round," she panted. "I know him--he's too shy. But
Eben won't mind--I'll tip him the wink."

Potter Vane was chopping wood before the door. Mrs. Theodora recognizing in him a further obstacle
to Marshall's wooing, caught him unceremoniously by the arm and hauled him, axe and all, over
the doorstone and into the kitchen, just as Bruce Marshall and Eben King drove into the yard
with not a second to spare between them. There was a woeful cut on Bay Billy's slender foreleg
and the reeking Lady Jane was trembling like a leaf. The staunch little mare had brought her
master over that stretch of sticky field road in time, but she was almost exhausted.

Both men sprang from their sleighs and ran to the door. Bruce Marshall won it by foot-room
and burst into the kitchen with his rival hot on his heels. Mrs. Theodora stood defiantly in
the middle of the room, still grasping the dazed and dismayed Potter. In a corner Judith turned
from the window whence she had been watching the finish of the race. She was pale and tense
from excitement. In those few gasping moments she had looked on her heart as on an open book;
she knew at last that she loved Bruce Marshall and her eyes met his fiery gray ones as he sprang
over the threshold.

"Judith, will you marry me?" gasped Bruce, before Eben, who had first looked at Mrs. Theodora
and the squirming Potter, had located the girl.

"Yes," said Judith. She burst into hysterical tears as she said it and sat limply down in a chair.

Mrs. Theodora loosed her grip on Potter.

"You can go back to your work," she said dully. She followed him out and Eben King followed
her. On the step she reached behind him and closed the door.

"Trust a King for being too late!" she said bitterly and unjustly.

Eben went home with Bay Billy. Potter gazed after him until Mrs. Theodora ordered him to put
Marshall's mare in the stable and rub her down.

"Anyway, Judith won't be an old maid," she comforted herself.

The Promise of Lucy Ellen

Cecily Foster came down the sloping, fir-fringed road from the village at a leisurely pace.
Usually she walked with a long, determined stride, but to-day the drowsy, mellowing influence
of the Autumn afternoon was strong upon her and filled her with placid content. Without being
actively conscious of it, she was satisfied with the existing circumstances of her life. It
was half over now. The half of it yet to be lived stretched before her, tranquil, pleasant
and uneventful, like the afternoon, filled with unhurried duties and calmly interesting days,
Cecily liked the prospect.

When she came to her own lane she paused, folding her hands on the top of the whitewashed gate,
while she basked for a moment in the warmth that seemed cupped in the little grassy hollow
hedged about with young fir-trees.

Before her lay sere, brooding fields sloping down to a sandy shore, where long foamy ripples
were lapping with a murmur that threaded the hushed air like a faint minor melody.

On the crest of the little hill to her right was her home--hers and Lucy Ellen's. The house
was an old-fashioned, weather-gray one, low in the eaves, with gables and porches overgrown
with vines that had turned to wine-reds and rich bronzes in the October frosts. On three sides
it was closed in by tall old spruces, their outer sides bared and grim from long wrestling
with the Atlantic winds, but their inner green and feathery. On the fourth side a trim white
paling shut in the flower garden before the front door. Cecily could see the beds of purple
and scarlet asters, making rich whorls of color under the parlor and sitting-room windows.
Lucy Ellen's bed was gayer and larger than Cecily's. Lucy Ellen had always had better luck
with flowers.

She could see old Boxer asleep on the front porch step and Lucy Ellen's white cat stretched
out on the parlor window-sill. There was no other sign of life about the place. Cecily drew
a long, leisurely breath of satisfaction.

"After tea I'll dig up those dahlia roots," she said aloud. "They'd ought to be up. My, how
blue and soft that sea is! I never saw such a lovely day. I've been gone longer than I expected.
I wonder if Lucy Ellen's been lonesome?"

When Cecily looked back from the misty ocean to the house, she was surprised to see a man coming
with a jaunty step down the lane under the gnarled spruces. She looked at him perplexedly.
He must be a stranger, for she was sure no man in Oriental walked like that.

"Some agent has been pestering Lucy Ellen, I suppose," she muttered vexedly.

The stranger came on with an airy briskness utterly foreign to Orientalites. Cecily opened
the gate and went through. They met under the amber-tinted sugar maple in the heart of the
hollow. As he passed, the man lifted his hat and bowed with an ingratiating smile.

He was about forty-five, well, although somewhat loudly dressed, and with an air of self-satisfied
prosperity pervading his whole personality. He had a heavy gold watch chain and a large seal
ring on the hand that lifted his hat. He was bald, with a high, Shaksperian forehead and a
halo of sandy curls. His face was ruddy and weak, but good-natured: his eyes were large and
blue, and he had a little straw-colored moustache, with a juvenile twist and curl in it.

Cecily did not recognize him, yet there was something vaguely familiar about him. She walked
rapidly up to the house. In the sitting-room she found Lucy Ellen peering out between the muslin
window curtains. When the latter turned there was an air of repressed excitement about her.

"Who was that man, Lucy Ellen?" Cecily asked.

To Cecily's amazement, Lucy Ellen blushed--a warm, Spring-like flood of color that rolled over
her delicate little face like a miracle of rejuvenescence.

"Didn't you know him? That was Cromwell Biron," she simpered. Although Lucy Ellen was forty
and, in most respects, sensible, she could not help simpering upon occasion.

"Cromwell Biron," repeated Cecily, in an emotionless voice. She took off her bonnet mechanically,
brushed the dust from its ribbons and bows and went to put it carefully away in its white box
in the spare bedroom. She felt as if she had had a severe shock, and she dared not ask anything
more just then. Lucy Ellen's blush had frightened her. It seemed to open up dizzying possibilities
of change.

"But she promised--she promised," said Cecily fiercely, under her breath.

While Cecily was changing her dress, Lucy Ellen was getting the tea ready in the little kitchen.
Now and then she broke out into singing, but always checked herself guiltily. Cecily heard
her and set her firm mouth a little firmer.

"If a man had jilted me twenty years ago, I wouldn't be so overwhelmingly glad to see him when
he came back--especially if he had got fat and bald-headed," she added, her face involuntarily
twitching into a smile. Cecily, in spite of her serious expression and intense way of looking
at life, had an irrepressible sense of humor.

Tea that evening was not the pleasant meal it usually was. The two women were wont to talk
animatedly to each other, and Cecily had many things to tell Lucy Ellen. She did not tell them.
Neither did Lucy Ellen ask any questions, her ill-concealed excitement hanging around her like
a festal garment.

Cecily's heart was on fire with alarm and jealousy. She smiled a little cruelly as she buttered
and ate her toast.

"And so that was Cromwell Biron," she said with studied carelessness. "I thought there was
something familiar about him. When did he come home?"

"He got to Oriental yesterday," fluttered back Lucy Ellen. "He's going to be home for two months.
We--we had such an interesting talk this afternoon. He--he's as full of jokes as ever. I wished
you'd been here."

This was a fib. Cecily knew it.

"I don't, then," she said contemptuously. "You know I never had much use for Cromwell Biron.
I think he had a face of his own to come down here to see you uninvited, after the way he treated
you."

Lucy Ellen blushed scorchingly and was miserably silent.

"He's changed terrible in his looks," went on Cecily relentlessly. "How bald he's got--and
fat! To think of the spruce Cromwell Biron got to be bald and fat! To be sure, he still has
the same sheepish expression. Will you pass me the currant jell, Lucy Ellen?"

"I don't think he's so very fat," she said resentfully, when Cecily had left the table. "And
I don't care if he is."

Twenty years before this, Biron had jilted Lucy Ellen Foster. She was the prettiest girl in
Oriental then, but the new school teacher over at the Crossways was prettier, with a dash of
piquancy, which Lucy Ellen lacked, into the bargain. Cromwell and the school teacher had run
away and been married, and Lucy Ellen was left to pick up the tattered shreds of her poor romance
as best she could.

She never had another lover. She told herself that she would always be faithful to the one
love of her life. This sounded romantic, and she found a certain comfort in it.

She had been brought up by her uncle and aunt. When they died she and her cousin, Cecily Foster,
found themselves, except for each other, alone in the world.

Cecily loved Lucy Ellen as a sister. But she believed that Lucy Ellen would yet marry, and
her heart sank at the prospect of being left without a soul to love and care for.

It was Lucy Ellen that had first proposed their mutual promise, but Cecily had grasped at it
eagerly. The two women, verging on decisive old maidenhood, solemnly promised each other that
they would never marry, and would always live together. From that time Cecily's mind had been
at ease. In her eyes a promise was a sacred thing.

The next evening at prayer-meeting Cromwell Biron received quite an ovation from old friends
and neighbors. Cromwell had been a favorite in his boyhood. He had now the additional glamour
of novelty and reputed wealth.

He was beaming and expansive. He went into the choir to help sing. Lucy Ellen sat beside him,
and they sang from the same book. Two red spots burned on her thin cheeks, and she had a cluster
of lavender chrysanthemums pinned on her jacket. She looked almost girlish, and Cromwell Biron
gazed at her with sidelong admiration, while Cecily watched them both fiercely from her pew.
She knew that Cromwell Biron had come home, wooing his old love.

"But he sha'n't get her," Cecily whispered into her hymnbook. Somehow it was a comfort to articulate
the words, "She promised."

On the church steps Cromwell offered his arm to Lucy Ellen with a flourish. She took it shyly,
and they started down the road in the crisp Autumn moonlight. For the first time in ten years
Cecily walked home from prayer-meeting alone. She went up-stairs and flung herself on her bed,
reckless for once, of her second best hat and gown.

Lucy Ellen did not venture to ask Cromwell in. She was too much in awe of Cecily for that.
But she loitered with him at the gate until the grandfather's clock in the hall struck eleven.
Then Cromwell went away, whistling gaily, with Lucy Ellen's chrysanthemum in his buttonhole,
and Lucy Ellen went in and cried half the night. But Cecily did not cry. She lay savagely awake
until morning.

"Cromwell Biron is courting you again," she said bluntly to Lucy Ellen at the breakfast table.

Lucy Ellen blushed nervously.

"Oh, nonsense, Cecily," she protested with a simper.

"It isn't nonsense," said Cecily calmly. "He is. There is no fool like an old fool, and Cromwell
Biron never had much sense. The presumption of him!"

Lucy Ellen's hands trembled as she put her teacup down.

"He's not so very old," she said faintly, "and everybody but you likes him--and he's well-to-do.
I don't see that there's any presumption."

"Maybe not--if you look at it so. You're very forgiving, Lucy Ellen. You've forgotten how he
treated you once."

"No--o--o, I haven't," faltered Lucy Ellen.

"Anyway," said Cecily coldly, "you shouldn't encourage his attentions, Lucy Ellen; you know
you couldn't marry him even if he asked you. You promised."

All the fitful color went out of Lucy Ellen's face. Under Cecily's pitiless eyes she wilted
and drooped.

"I know," she said deprecatingly, "I haven't forgotten. You are talking nonsense, Cecily. I
like to see Cromwell, and he likes to see me because I'm almost the only one of his old set
that is left. He feels lonesome in Oriental now."

Lucy Ellen lifted her fawn-colored little head more erectly at the last of her protest. She
had saved her self-respect.

In the month that followed Cromwell Biron pressed his suit persistently, unintimidated by Cecily's
antagonism. October drifted into November and the chill, drear days came. To Cecily the whole
outer world seemed the dismal reflex of her pain-bitten heart. Yet she constantly laughed at
herself, too, and her laughter was real if bitter.

One evening she came home late from a neighbor's. Cromwell Biron passed her in the hollow under
the bare boughs of the maple that were outlined against the silvery moonlit sky.

When Cecily went into the house, Lucy Ellen opened the parlor door. She was very pale, but
her eyes burned in her face and her hands were clasped before her.

"I wish you'd come in here for a few minutes, Cecily," she said feverishly.

Cecily followed silently into the room.

"Cecily," she said faintly, "Cromwell was here to-night. He asked me to marry him. I told him
to come to-morrow night for his answer."

She paused and looked imploringly at Cecily. Cecily did not speak. She stood tall and unrelenting
by the table. The rigidity of her face and figure smote Lucy Ellen like a blow. She threw out
her bleached little hands and spoke with a sudden passion utterly foreign to her.

"Cecily, I want to marry him. I--I--love him. I always have. I never thought of this when I
promised. Oh, Cecily, you'll let me off my promise, won't you?"

"No," said Cecily. It was all she said. Lucy Ellen's hands fell to her sides, and the light
went out of her face.

"You won't?" she said hopelessly.

Cecily went out. At the door she turned.

"When John Edwards asked me to marry him six years ago, I said no for your sake. To my mind
a promise is a promise. But you were always weak and romantic, Lucy Ellen."

Lucy Ellen made no response. She stood limply on the hearth-rug like a faded blossom bitten
by frost.

After Cromwell Biron had gone away the next evening, with all his brisk jauntiness shorn from
him for the time, Lucy Ellen went up to Cecily's room. She stood for a moment in the narrow
doorway, with the lamplight striking upward with a gruesome effect on her wan face.

"I've sent him away," she said lifelessly. "I've kept my promise, Cecily."

There was silence for a moment. Cecily did not know what to say. Suddenly Lucy Ellen burst
out bitterly.

"I wish I was dead!"

Then she turned swiftly and ran across the hall to her own room. Cecily gave a little moan
of pain. This was her reward for all the love she had lavished on Lucy Ellen.

"Anyway, it is all over," she said, looking dourly into the moonlit boughs of the firs; "Lucy
Ellen'll get over it. When Cromwell is gone she'll forget all about him. I'm not going to fret.
She promised, and she wanted the promise first."

During the next fortnight tragedy held grim sway in the little weather-gray house among the
firs--a tragedy tempered with grim comedy for Cecily, who, amid all her agony, could not help
being amused at Lucy Ellen's romantic way of sorrowing.

Lucy Ellen did her mornings' work listlessly and drooped through the afternoons. Cecily would
have felt it as a relief if Lucy Ellen had upbraided her, but after her outburst on the night
she sent Cromwell away, Lucy Ellen never uttered a word of reproach or complaint.

One evening Cecily made a neighborly call in the village. Cromwell Biron happened to be there
and gallantly insisted upon seeing her home.

She understood from Cromwell's unaltered manner that Lucy Ellen had not told him why she had
refused him. She felt a sudden admiration for her cousin.

When they reached the house Cromwell halted suddenly in the banner of light that streamed from
the sitting-room window. They saw Lucy Ellen sitting alone before the fire, her arms folded
on the table, and her head bowed on them. Her white cat sat unnoticed at the table beside her.
Cecily gave a gasp of surrender.

"You'd better come in," she said, harshly. "Lucy Ellen looks lonesome."

Cromwell muttered sheepishly, "I'm afraid I wouldn't be company for her. Lucy Ellen doesn't
like me much--"

"Oh, doesn't she!" said Cecily, bitterly. "She likes you better than she likes me for all I've--but
it's no matter. It's been all my fault--she'll explain. Tell her I said she could. Come in, I say."

She caught the still reluctant Cromwell by the arm and fairly dragged him over the geranium
beds and through the front door. She opened the sitting-room door and pushed him in. Lucy Ellen
rose in amazement. Over Cromwell's bald head loomed Cecily's dark face, tragic and determined.

"Here's your beau, Lucy Ellen," she said, "and I give you back your promise."

She shut the door upon the sudden illumination of Lucy Ellen's face and went up-stairs with
the tears rolling down her cheeks.

"It's my turn to wish I was dead," she muttered. Then she laughed hysterically.

"That goose of a Cromwell! How queer he did look standing there, frightened to death of Lucy
Ellen. Poor little Lucy Ellen! Well, I hope he'll be good to her."

The Pursuit of the Ideal

Freda's snuggery was aglow with the rose-red splendour of an open fire which was triumphantly
warding off the stealthy approaches of the dull grey autumn twilight. Roger St. Clair stretched
himself out luxuriously in an easy-chair with a sigh of pleasure.

"Freda, your armchairs are the most comfy in the world. How do you get them to fit into a fellow's
kinks so splendidly?"

Freda smiled at him out of big, owlish eyes that were the same tint as the coppery grey sea
upon which the north window of the snuggery looked.

"Any armchair will fit a lazy fellow's kinks," she said.

"I'm not lazy," protested Roger. "That you should say so, Freda, when I have wheeled all the
way out of town this dismal afternoon over the worst bicycle road in three kingdoms to see
you, bonnie maid!"

"I like lazy people," said Freda softly, tilting her spoon on a cup of chocolate with a slender
brown hand.

Roger smiled at her chummily.

"You are such a comfortable girl," he said. "I like to talk to you and tell you things."

"You have something to tell me today. It has been fairly sticking out of your eyes ever since
you came. Now, 'fess."

Freda put away her cup and saucer, got up, and stood by the fireplace, with one arm outstretched
along the quaintly carved old mantel. She laid her head down on its curve and looked expectantly
at Roger.

"I have seen my ideal, Freda," said Roger gravely.

Freda lifted her head and then laid it down again. She did not speak. Roger was glad of it.
Even at the moment he found himself thinking that Freda had a genius for silence. Any other
girl he knew would have broken in at once with surprised exclamations and questions and spoiled
his story.

"You have not forgotten what my ideal woman is like?" he said.

Freda shook her head. She was not likely to forget. She remembered only too keenly the afternoon
he had told her. They had been sitting in the snuggery, herself in the inglenook, and Roger
coiled up in his big pet chair that nobody else ever sat in.

"'What must my lady be that I must love her?'" he had quoted. "Well, I will paint my dream-love
for you, Freda. She must be tall and slender, with chestnut hair of wonderful gloss, with just
the suggestion of a ripple in it. She must have an oval face, colourless ivory in hue, with
the expression of a Madonna; and her eyes must be 'passionless, peaceful blue,' deep and tender
as a twilight sky."

Freda, looking at herself along her arm in the mirror, recalled this description and smiled
faintly. She was short and plump, with a piquant, irregular little face, vivid tinting, curly,
unmanageable hair of ruddy brown, and big grey eyes. Certainly, she was not his ideal.

"When and where did you meet your lady of the Madonna face and twilight eyes?" she asked.

Roger frowned. Freda's face was solemn enough but her eyes looked as if she might be laughing
at him.

"I haven't met her yet. I have only seen her. It was in the park yesterday. She was in a carriage
with the Mandersons. So beautiful, Freda! Our eyes met as she drove past and I realized that
I had found my long-sought ideal. I rushed back to town and hunted up Pete Manderson at the
club. Pete is a donkey but he has his ways of being useful. He told me who she was. Her name
is Stephanie Gardiner; she is his cousin from the south and is visiting his mother. And, Freda,
I am to dine at the Mandersons' tonight. I shall meet her."

"Do goddesses and ideals and Madonnas eat?" said Freda in an awed whisper. Her eyes were certainly
laughing now. Roger got up stiffly.

"I must confess I did not expect that you would ridicule my confidence, Freda," he said frigidly.
"It is very unlike you. But if you are not interested I will not bore you with any further
details. And it is time I was getting back to town anyhow."

When he had gone Freda ran to the west window and flung it open. She leaned out and waved both
hands at him over the spruce hedge.

"Roger, Roger, I was a horrid little beast. Forget it immediately, please. And come out tomorrow
and tell me all about her."

Roger came. He bored Freda terribly with his raptures but she never betrayed it. She was all
sympathy--or, at least, as much sympathy as a woman can be who must listen while the man of
men sings another woman's praises to her. She sent Roger away in perfect good humour with himself
and all the world, then she curled herself up in the snuggery, pulled a rug over her head,
and cried.

Roger came out to Lowlands oftener than ever after that. He had to talk to somebody about Stephanie
Gardiner and Freda was the safest vent. The "pursuit of the Ideal," as she called it, went
on with vim and fervour. Sometimes Roger would be on the heights of hope and elation; the next
visit he would be in the depths of despair and humility. Freda had learned to tell which it
was by the way he opened the snuggery door.

One day when Roger came he found six feet of young man reposing at ease in his particular chair.
Freda was sipping chocolate in her corner and looking over the rim of her cup at the intruder
just as she had been wont to look at Roger. She had on a new dark red gown and looked vivid
and rose-hued.

She introduced the stranger as Mr. Grayson and called him Tim. They seemed to be excellent
friends. Roger sat bolt upright on the edge of a fragile, gilded chair which Freda kept to
hide a shabby spot in the carpet, and glared at Tim until the latter said goodbye and lounged out.

"You'll be over tomorrow?" said Freda.

"Can't I come this evening?" he pleaded.

Freda nodded. "Yes--and we'll make taffy. You used to make such delicious stuff, Tim."

"Who is that fellow, Freda?" Roger inquired crossly, as soon as the door closed.

Freda began to make a fresh pot of chocolate. She smiled dreamily as if thinking of something
pleasant.

"Why, that was Tim Grayson--dear old Tim. He used to live next door to us when we were children.
And we were such chums--always together, making mud pies, and getting into scrapes. He is just
the same old Tim, and is home from the west for a long visit. I was so glad to see him again."

"So it would appear," said Roger grumpily. "Well, now that 'dear old Tim' is gone, I suppose
I can have my own chair, can I? And do give me some chocolate. I didn't know you made taffy."

"Oh, I don't. It's Tim. He can do everything. He used to make it long ago, and I washed up
after him and helped him eat it. How is the pursuit of the Ideal coming on, Roger-boy?"

Roger did not feel as if he wanted to talk about the Ideal. He noticed how vivid Freda's smile
was and how lovable were the curves of her neck where the dusky curls were caught up from it.
He had also an inner vision of Freda making taffy with Tim and he did not approve of it.

He refused to talk about the Ideal. On his way back to town he found himself thinking that
Freda had the most charming, glad little laugh of any girl he knew. He suddenly remembered
that he had never heard the Ideal laugh. She smiled placidly--he had raved to Freda about that
smile--but she did not laugh. Roger began to wonder what an ideal without any sense of humour
would be like when translated into the real.

He went to Lowlands the next afternoon and found Tim there--in his chair again. He detested
the fellow but he could not deny that he was good-looking and had charming manners. Freda was
very nice to Tim. On his way back to town Roger decided that Tim was in love with Freda. He
was furious at the idea. The presumption of the man!

He also remembered that he had not said a word to Freda about the Ideal. And he never did say
much more--perhaps because he could not get the chance. Tim was always there before him and
generally outstayed him.

One day when he went out he did not find Freda at home. Her aunt told him that she was out
riding with Mr. Grayson. On his way back he met them. As they cantered by, Freda waved her
riding whip at him. Her face was full of warm, ripe, kissable tints, her loose lovelocks were
blowing about it, and her eyes shone like grey pools mirroring stars. Roger turned and watched
them out of sight behind the firs that cupped Lowlands.

That night at Mrs. Crandall's dinner table somebody began to talk about Freda. Roger strained
his ears to listen. Mrs. Kitty Carr was speaking--Mrs. Kitty knew everything and everybody.

"She is simply the most charming girl in the world when you get really acquainted with her,"
said Mrs. Kitty, with the air of having discovered and patented Freda. "She is so vivid and
unconventional and lovable--'spirit and fire and dew,' you know. Tim Grayson is a very lucky
fellow."

"Are they engaged?" someone asked.

"Not yet, I fancy. But of course it is only a question of time. Tim simply adores her. He is
a good soul and has lots of money, so he'll do. But really, you know, I think a prince wouldn't
be good enough for Freda."

Roger suddenly became conscious that the Ideal was asking him a question of which he had not
heard a word. He apologized and was forgiven. But he went home a very miserable man.

He did not go to Lowlands for two weeks. They were the longest, most wretched two weeks he
had ever lived through. One afternoon he heard that Tim Grayson had gone back west. Mrs. Kitty
told it mournfully.

"Of course, this means that Freda has refused him," she said. "She is such an odd girl."

Roger went straight out to Lowlands. He found Freda in the snuggery and held out his hands to her.

"Freda, will you marry me? It will take a lifetime to tell you how much I love you."

"But the Ideal?" questioned Freda.

"I have just discovered what my ideal is," said Roger. "She is a dear, loyal, companionable
little girl, with the jolliest laugh and the warmest, truest heart in the world. She has starry
grey eyes, two dimples, and a mouth I must and will kiss--there--there--there! Freda, tell
me you love me a little bit, although I've been such a besotted idiot."

"I will not let you call my husband-that-is-to-be names," said Freda, snuggling down into the
curve of his shoulder. "But indeed, Roger-boy, you will have to make me very, very happy to
square matters up. You have made me so unutterably unhappy for two months."

"The pursuit of the Ideal is ended," declared Roger.

The Softening of Miss Cynthia

"I wonder if I'd better flavour this cake with lemon or vanilla. It's the most perplexing thing
I ever heard of in my life."

Miss Cynthia put down the bottles with a vexed frown; her perplexity had nothing whatever to
do with flavouring the golden mixture in her cake bowl. Mrs. John Joe knew that; the latter
had dropped in in a flurry of curiosity concerning the little boy whom she had seen about Miss
Cynthia's place for the last two days. Her daughter Kitty was with her; they both sat close
together on the kitchen sofa.

"It is too bad," said Mrs. John Joe sympathetically. "I don't wonder you are mixed up. So unexpected,
too! When did he come?"

"Tuesday night," said Miss Cynthia. She had decided on the vanilla and was whipping it briskly
in. "I saw an express wagon drive into the yard with a boy and a trunk in it and I went out
just as he got down. 'Are you my Aunt Cynthia?' he said. 'Who in the world are you?' I asked.
And he says, 'I'm Wilbur Merrivale, and my father was John Merrivale. He died three weeks ago
and he said I was to come to you, because you were his sister.' Well, you could just have knocked
me down with a feather!"

"I'm sure," said Mrs. John Joe. "But I didn't know you had a brother. And his name--Merrivale?"

"Well, he wasn't any relation really. I was about six years old when my father married his
mother, the Widow Merrivale. John was just my age, and we were brought up together just like
brother and sister. He was a real nice fellow, I must say. But he went out to Californy years
ago, and I haven't heard a word of him for fifteen years--didn't know if he was alive or dead.
But it seems from what I can make out from the boy, that his mother died when he was a baby,
and him and John roughed it along together--pretty poor, too, I guess--till John took a fever
and died. And he told some of his friends to send the boy to me, for he'd no relations there
and not a cent in the world. And the child came all the way from Californy, and here he is.
I've been just distracted ever since. I've never been used to children, and to have the house
kept in perpetual uproar is more than I can stand. He's about twelve and a born mischief. He'll
tear through the rooms with his dirty feet, and he's smashed one of my blue vases and torn
down a curtain and set Towser on the cat half a dozen times already--I never was so worried.
I've got him out on the verandah shelling peas now, to keep him quiet for a little spell."

"I'm really sorry for you," said Mrs. John Joe. "But, poor child, I suppose he's never had
anyone to look after him. And come all the way from Californy alone, too--he must be real smart."

"Too smart, I guess. He must take after his mother, whoever she was, for there ain't a bit
of Merrivale in him. And he's been brought up pretty rough."

"Well, it'll be a great responsibility for you, Cynthia, of course. But he'll be company, too,
and he'll be real handy to run errands and--"

"I'm not going to keep him," said Miss Cynthia determinedly. Her thin lips set themselves firmly
and her voice had a hard ring.

"Not going to keep him?" said Mrs. John Joe blankly. "You can't send him back to Californy!"

"I don't intend to. But as for having him here to worry my life out and keep me in a perpetual
stew, I just won't do it. D'ye think I'm going to trouble myself about children at my age?
And all he'd cost for clothes and schooling, too! I can't afford it. I don't suppose his father
expected it either. I suppose he expected me to look after him a bit--and of course I will.
A boy of his age ought to be able to earn his keep, anyway. If I look out a place for him somewhere
where he can do odd jobs and go to school in the winter, I think it's all anyone can expect
of me, when he ain't really no blood relation."

Miss Cynthia flung the last sentence at Mrs. John Joe rather defiantly, not liking the expression
on that lady's face.

"I suppose nobody could expect more, Cynthy," said Mrs. John Joe deprecatingly. "He would be
an awful bother, I've no doubt, and you've lived alone so long with no one to worry you that
you wouldn't know what to do with him. Boys are always getting into mischief--my four just
keep me on the dead jump. Still, it's a pity for him, poor little fellow! No mother or father--it
seems hard."

Miss Cynthia's face grew grimmer than ever as she went to the door with her callers and watched
them down the garden path. As soon as Mrs. John Joe saw that the door was shut, she unburdened
her mind to her daughter.

"Did you ever hear tell of the like? I thought I knew Cynthia Henderson well, if anybody in
Wilmot did, but this beats me. Just think, Kitty--there she is, no one knows how rich, and
not a soul in the world belonging to her, and she won't even take in her brother's child. She
must be a hard woman. But it's just meanness, pure and simple; she grudges him what he'd eat
and wear. The poor mite doesn't look as if he'd need much. Cynthia didn't used to be like that,
but it's growing on her every day. She's got hard as rocks."

That afternoon Miss Cynthia harnessed her fat grey pony into the phaeton herself--she kept
neither man nor maid, but lived in her big, immaculate house in solitary state--and drove away
down the dusty, buttercup-bordered road, leaving Wilbur sitting on the verandah. She returned
in an hour's time and drove into the yard, shutting the gate behind her with a vigorous snap.
Wilbur was not in sight and, fearful lest he should be in mischief, she hurriedly tied the
pony to the railing and went in search of him. She found him sitting by the well, his chin
in his hands; he was pale and his eyes were red. Miss Cynthia hardened her heart and took him
into the house.

"I've been down to see Mr. Robins this afternoon, Wilbur," she said, pretending to brush some
invisible dust from the bottom of her nice black cashmere skirt for an excuse to avoid looking
at him, "and he's agreed to take you on trial. It's a real good chance--better than you could
expect. He says he'll board and clothe you and let you go to school in the winter."

The boy seemed to shrink.

"Daddy said that I would stay with you," he said wistfully. "He said you were so good and kind
and would love me for his sake."

For a moment Miss Cynthia softened. She had been very fond of her stepbrother; it seemed that
his voice appealed to her across the grave in behalf of his child. But the crust of years was
not to be so easily broken.

"Your father meant that I would look after you," she said, "and I mean to, but I can't afford
to keep you here. You'll have a good place at Mr. Robins', if you behave yourself. I'm going
to take you down now, before I unharness the pony, so go and wash your face while I put up
your things. Don't look so woebegone, for pity's sake! I'm not taking you to prison."

Wilbur turned and went silently to the kitchen. Miss Cynthia thought she heard a sob. She went
with a firm step into the little bedroom off the hall and took a purse out of a drawer.

"I s'pose I ought," she said doubtfully. "I don't s'pose he has a cent. I daresay he'll lose
or waste it."

She counted out seventy-five cents carefully. When she came out, Wilbur was at the door. She
put the money awkwardly into his hand.

"There, see that you don't spend it on any foolishness."

       *       *       *       *       *

Miss Cynthia's Action made a good deal of talk in Wilmot. The women, headed by Mrs. John Joe--who
said behind Cynthia's back what she did not dare say to her face--condemned her. The men laughed
and said that Cynthia was a shrewd one; there was no getting round her. Miss Cynthia herself
was far from easy. She could not forget Wilbur's wistful eyes, and she had heard that Robins
was a hard master.

A week after the boy had gone she saw him one day at the store. He was lifting heavy bags from
a cart. The work was beyond his strength, and he was flushed and panting. Miss Cynthia's conscience
gave her a hard stab. She bought a roll of peppermints and took them over to him. He thanked
her timidly and drove quickly away.

"Robins hasn't any business putting such work on a child," she said to herself indignantly.
"I'll speak to him about it."

And she did--and got an answer that made her ears tingle. Mr. Robins bluntly told her he guessed
he knew what was what about his hands. He weren't no nigger driver. If she wasn't satisfied,
she might take the boy away as soon as she liked.

Miss Cynthia did not get much comfort out of life that summer. Almost everywhere she went she
was sure to meet Wilbur, engaged in some hard task. She could not help seeing how miserably
pale and thin he had become. The worry had its effect on her. The neighbours said that Cynthy
was sharper than ever. Even her church-going was embittered. She had always enjoyed walking
up the aisle with her rich silk skirt rustling over the carpet, her cashmere shawl folded correctly
over her shoulders, and her lace bonnet set precisely on her thin shining crimps. But she could
take no pleasure in that or in the sermon now, when Wilbur sat right across from her pew, between
hard-featured Robins and his sulky-looking wife. The boy's eyes had grown too large for his
thin face.

The softening of Miss Cynthia was a very gradual process, but it reached a climax one September
morning, when Mrs. John Joe came into the former's kitchen with an important face. Miss Cynthia
was preserving her plums.

"No, thank you, I'll not sit down--I only run in--I suppose you've heard it. That little Merrivale
boy has took awful sick with fever, they say. He's been worked half to death this summer--everyone
knows what Robins is with his help--and they say he has fretted a good deal for his father
and been homesick, and he's run down, I s'pose. Anyway, Robins took him over to the hospital
at Stanford last night--good gracious, Cynthy, are you sick?"

Miss Cynthia had staggered to a seat by the table; her face was pallid.

"No, it's only your news gave me a turn--it came so suddenly--I didn't know."

"I must hurry back and see to the men's dinners. I thought I'd come and tell you, though I
didn't know as you'd care."

This parting shot was unheeded by Miss Cynthia. She laid her face in her hands. "It's a judgement
on me," she moaned. "He's going to die, and I'm his murderess. This is the account I'll have
to give John Merrivale of his boy. I've been a wicked, selfish woman, and I'm justly punished."

It was a humbled Miss Cynthia who met the doctor at the hospital that afternoon. He shook his
head at her eager questions.

"It's a pretty bad case. The boy seems run down every way. No, it is impossible to think of
moving him again. Bringing him here last night did him a great deal of harm. Yes, you may see
him, but he will not know you, I fear--he is delirious and raves of his father and California."

Miss Cynthia followed the doctor down the long ward. When he paused by a cot, she pushed past
him. Wilbur lay tossing restlessly on his pillow. He was thin to emaciation, but his cheeks
were crimson and his eyes burning bright.

Miss Cynthia stooped and took the hot, dry hands in hers.

"Wilbur," she sobbed, "don't you know me--Aunt Cynthia?"

"You are not my Aunt Cynthia," said Wilbur. "Daddy said Aunt Cynthia was good and kind--you
are a cross, bad woman. I want Daddy. Why doesn't he come? Why doesn't he come to little Wilbur?"

Miss Cynthia got up and faced the doctor.

"He's got to get better," she said stubbornly. "Spare no expense or trouble. If he dies, I
will be a murderess. He must live and give me a chance to make it up for him."

And he did live; but for a long time it was a hard fight, and there were days when it seemed
that death must win. Miss Cynthia got so thin and wan that even Mrs. John Joe pitied her.

The earth seemed to Miss Cynthia to laugh out in prodigal joyousness on the afternoon she drove
home when Wilbur had been pronounced out of danger. How tranquil the hills looked, with warm
October sunshine sleeping on their sides and faint blue hazes on their brows! How gallantly
the maples flaunted their crimson flags! How kind and friendly was every face she met! Afterwards,
Miss Cynthia said she began to live that day.

Wilbur's recovery was slow. Every day Miss Cynthia drove over with some dainty, and her loving
gentleness sat none the less gracefully on her because of its newness. Wilbur grew to look
for and welcome her coming. When it was thought safe to remove him, Miss Cynthia went to the
hospital with a phaeton-load of shawls and pillows.

"I have come to take you away," she said.

Wilbur shrank back. "Not to Mr. Robins," he said piteously. "Oh, not there, Aunt Cynthia!"

Them Notorious Pigs

John Harrington was a woman-hater, or thought that he was, which amounts to the same thing.
He was forty-five and, having been handsome in his youth, was a fine-looking man still. He
had a remarkably good farm and was a remarkably good farmer. He also had a garden which was
the pride and delight of his heart or, at least, it was before Mrs. Hayden's pigs got into it.

Sarah King, Harrington's aunt and housekeeper, was deaf and crabbed, and very few visitors
ever came to the house. This suited Harrington. He was a good citizen and did his duty by the
community, but his bump of sociability was undeveloped. He was also a contented man, looking
after his farm, improving his stock, and experimenting with new bulbs in undisturbed serenity.
This, however, was all too good to last. A man is bound to have some troubles in this life,
and Harrington's were near their beginning when Perry Hayden bought the adjoining farm from
the heirs of Shakespeare Ely, deceased, and moved in.

To be sure, Perry Hayden, poor fellow, did not bother Harrington much, for he died of pneumonia
a month after he came there, but his widow carried on the farm with the assistance of a lank
hired boy. Her own children, Charles and Theodore, commonly known as Bobbles and Ted, were
as yet little more than babies.

The real trouble began when Mary Hayden's pigs, fourteen in number and of half-grown voracity,
got into Harrington's garden. A railing, a fir grove, and an apple orchard separated the two
establishments, but these failed to keep the pigs within bounds.

Harrington had just got his garden planted for the season, and to go out one morning and find
a horde of enterprising porkers rooting about in it was, to put it mildly, trying. He was angry,
but as it was a first offence he drove the pigs out with tolerable calmness, mended the fence,
and spent the rest of the day repairing damages.

Three days later the pigs got in again. Harrington relieved his mind by some scathing reflections
on women who tried to run farms. Then he sent Mordecai, his hired man, over to the Hayden place
to ask Mrs. Hayden if she would be kind enough to keep her pigs out of his garden. Mrs. Hayden
sent back word that she was very sorry and would not let it occur again. Nobody, not even John
Harrington, could doubt that she meant what she said. But she had reckoned without the pigs.
They had not forgotten the flavour of Egyptian fleshpots as represented by the succulent young
shoots in the Harrington domains. A week later Mordecai came in and told Harrington that "them
notorious pigs" were in his garden again.

There is a limit to everyone's patience. Harrington left Mordecai to drive them out, while
he put on his hat and stalked over to the Haydens' place. Ted and Bobbles were playing at marbles
in the lane and ran when they saw him coming. He got close up to the little low house among
the apple trees before Mordecai appeared in the yard, driving the pigs around the barn. Mrs.
Hayden was sitting on her doorstep, paring her dinner potatoes, and stood up hastily when she
saw her visitor.

Harrington had never seen his neighbour at close quarters before. Now he could not help seeing
that she was a very pretty little woman, with wistful, dark blue eyes and an appealing expression.
Mary Hayden had been next to a beauty in her girlhood, and she had a good deal of her bloom
left yet, although hard work and worry were doing their best to rob her of it. But John Harrington
was an angry man and did not care whether the woman in question was pretty or not. Her pigs
had rooted up his garden--that fact filled his mind.

"Mrs. Hayden, those pigs of yours have been in my garden again. I simply can't put up with
this any longer. Why in the name of reason don't you look after your animals better? If I find
them in again I'll set my dog on them, I give you fair warning."

A faint colour had crept into Mary Hayden's soft, milky-white cheeks during this tirade, and
her voice trembled as she said, "I'm very sorry, Mr. Harrington. I suppose Bobbles forgot to
shut the gate of their pen again this morning. He is so forgetful."

"I'd lengthen his memory, then, if I were you," returned Harrington grimly, supposing that
Bobbles was the hired man. "I'm not going to have my garden ruined just because he happens
to be forgetful. I am speaking my mind plainly, madam. If you can't keep your stock from being
a nuisance to other people you ought not to try to run a farm at all."

Then did Mrs. Hayden sit down upon the doorstep and burst into tears. Harrington felt, as Sarah
King would have expressed it, "every which way at once." Here was a nice mess! What a nuisance
women were--worse than the pigs!

"Oh, don't cry, Mrs. Hayden," he said awkwardly. "I didn't mean--well, I suppose I spoke too
strongly. Of course I know you didn't mean to let the pigs in. There, do stop crying! I beg
your pardon if I've hurt your feelings."

"Oh, it isn't that," sobbed Mrs. Hayden, wiping away her tears. "It's only--I've tried so hard--and
everything seems to go wrong. I make such mistakes. As for your garden, sir. I'll pay for the
damage my pigs have done if you'll let me know what it comes to."

She sobbed again and caught her breath like a grieved child. Harrington felt like a brute.
He had a queer notion that if he put his arm around her and told her not to worry over things
women were not created to attend to he would be expressing his feelings better than in any
other way. But of course he couldn't do that. Instead, he muttered that the damage didn't amount
to much after all, and he hoped she wouldn't mind what he said, and then he got himself away
and strode through the orchard like a man in a desperate hurry.

Mordecai had gone home and the pigs were not to be seen, but a chubby little face peeped at
him from between two scrub, bloom-white cherry trees.

"G'way, you bad man!" said Bobbles vindictively. "G'way! You made my mommer cry--I saw you.
I'm only Bobbles now, but when I grow up I'll be Charles Henry Hayden and you won't dare to
make my mommer cry then."

Harrington smiled grimly. "So you're the lad who forgets to shut the pigpen gate, are you?
Come out here and let me see you. Who is in there with you?"

"Ted is. He's littler than me. But I won't come out. I don't like you. G'way home."

Harrington obeyed. He went home and to work in his garden. But work as hard as he would, he
could not forget Mary Hayden's grieved face.

"I was a brute!" he thought. "Why couldn't I have mentioned the matter gently? I daresay she
has enough to trouble her. Confound those pigs!"

       *       *       *       *       *

After that there was a time of calm. Evidently something had been done to Bobbles' memory or
perhaps Mrs. Hayden attended to the gate herself. At all events the pigs were not seen and
Harrington's garden blossomed like the rose. But Harrington himself was in a bad state.

For one thing, wherever he looked he saw the mental picture of his neighbour's tired, sweet
face and the tears in her blue eyes. The original he never saw, which only made matters worse.
He wondered what opinion she had of him and decided that she must think him a cross old bear.
This worried him. He wished the pigs would break in again so that he might have a chance to
show how forbearing he could be.

One day he gathered a nice mess of tender young greens and sent them over to Mrs. Hayden by
Mordecai. At first he had thought of sending her some flowers, but that seemed silly, and besides,
Mordecai and flowers were incongruous. Mrs. Hayden sent back a very pretty message of thanks,
whereat Harrington looked radiant and Mordecai, who could see through a stone wall as well
as most people, went out to the barn and chuckled.

"Ef the little widder hain't caught him! Who'd a-thought it?"

The next day one adventurous pig found its way alone into the Harrington garden. Harrington
saw it get in and at the same moment he saw Mrs. Hayden running through her orchard. She was
in his yard by the time he got out.

Her sunbonnet had fallen back and some loose tendrils of her auburn hair were curling around
her forehead. Her cheeks were so pink and her eyes so bright from running that she looked almost
girlish.

"Oh, Mr. Harrington," she said breathlessly, "that pet pig of Bobbles' is in your garden again.
He only got in this minute. I saw him coming and I ran right after him."

"He's there, all right," said Harrington cheerfully, "but I'll get him out in a jiffy. Don't
tire yourself. Won't you go into the house and rest while I drive him around?"

Mrs. Hayden, however, was determined to help and they both went around to the garden, set the
gate open, and tried to drive the pig out. But Harrington was not thinking about pigs, and
Mrs. Hayden did not know quite so much about driving them as Mordecai did; as a consequence
they did not make much headway. In her excitement Mrs. Hayden ran over beds and whatever came
in her way, and Harrington, in order to keep near her, ran after her. Between them they spoiled
things about as much as a whole drove of pigs would have done.

But at last the pig grew tired of the fun, bolted out of the gate, and ran across the yard
to his own place. Mrs. Hayden followed slowly and Harrington walked beside her.

"Those pigs are all to be shut up tomorrow," she said. "Hiram has been fixing up a place for
them in his spare moments and it is ready at last."

"Oh, I wouldn't," said Harrington hastily. "It isn't good for pigs to be shut up so young.
You'd better let them run a while yet."

"No," said Mrs. Hayden decidedly. "They have almost worried me to death already. In they go
tomorrow."

They were at the lane gate now, and Harrington had to open it and let her pass through. He
felt quite desperate as he watched her trip up through the rows of apple trees, her blue gingham
skirt brushing the lush grasses where a lacy tangle of sunbeams and shadows lay. Bobbles and
Ted came running to meet her and the three, hand in hand, disappeared from sight.

Harrington went back to the house, feeling that life was flat, stale, and unprofitable. That
evening at the tea table he caught himself wondering what it would be like to see Mary Hayden
sitting at his table in place of Sarah King, with Bobbles and Ted on either hand. Then he found
out what was the matter with him. He was in love, fathoms deep, with the blue-eyed widow!

Presumably the pigs were shut up the next day, for Harrington's garden was invaded no more.
He stood it for a week and then surrendered at discretion. He filled a basket with early strawberries
and went across to the Hayden place, boldly enough to all appearance, but with his heart thumping
like any schoolboy's.

The front door stood hospitably open, flanked by rows of defiant red and yellow hollyhocks.
Harrington paused on the step, with his hand outstretched to knock. Somewhere inside he heard
a low sobbing. Forgetting all about knocking, he stepped softly in and walked to the door of
the little sitting-room. Bobbles was standing behind him in the middle of the kitchen but Harrington
did not see him. He was looking at Mary Hayden, who was sitting by the table in the room with
her arms flung out over it and her head bowed on them. She was crying softly in a hopeless fashion.

Harrington put down his strawberries. "Mary!" he exclaimed.

Mrs. Hayden straightened herself up with a start and looked at him, her lips quivering and
her eyes full of tears.

"What is the matter?" said Harrington anxiously. "Is anything wrong?"

"Oh, nothing much," Said Mrs. Hayden, trying to recover herself. "Yes, there is too. But it
is very foolish of me to be going on like this. I didn't know anyone was near. And I was feeling
so discouraged. The colt broke his leg in the swamp pasture today and Hiram had to shoot him.
It was Ted's colt. But there, there is no use in crying over it."

And by way of proving this, the poor, tired, overburdened little woman began to cry again.
She was past caring whether Harrington saw her or not.

The woman-hater was so distressed that he forgot to be nervous. He sat down and put his arm
around her and spoke out what was in his mind without further parley.

"Don't cry, Mary. Listen to me. You were never meant to run a farm and be killed with worry.
You ought to be looked after and petted. I want you to marry me and then everything will be
all right. I've loved you ever since that day I came over here and made you cry. Do you think
you can like me a little, Mary?"

It may be that Mrs. Hayden was not very much surprised, because Harrington's face had been
like an open book the day they chased the pig out of the garden together. As for what she said,
perhaps Bobbles, who was surreptitiously gorging himself on Harrington's strawberries, may
tell you, but I certainly shall not.

The little brown house among the apple trees is shut up now and the boundary fence belongs
to ancient history. Sarah King has gone also and Mrs. John Harrington reigns royally in her
place. Bobbles and Ted have a small, blue-eyed, much-spoiled sister, and there is a pig on
the estate who may die of old age, but will never meet his doom otherwise. It is Bobbles' pig
and one of the famous fourteen.

Mordecai still shambles around and worships Mrs. Harrington. The garden is the same as of yore,
but the house is a different place and Harrington is a different man. And Mordecai will tell
you with a chuckle, "It was them notorious pigs as did it all."

Why Not Ask Miss Price?

Frances Allen came in from the post office and laid an open letter on the table beside her
mother, who was making mincemeat. Alma Allen looked up from the cake she was frosting to ask,
"What is the matter? You look as if your letter contained unwelcome news, Fan."

"So it does. It is from Aunt Clara, to say she cannot come. She has received a telegram that
her sister-in-law is very ill and she must go to her at once."

Mrs. Allen looked regretful, and Alma cast her spoon away with a tragic air.

"That is too bad. I feel as if our celebration were spoiled. But I suppose it can't be helped."

"No," agreed Frances, sitting down and beginning to peel apples. "So there is no use in lamenting,
or I would certainly sit down and cry, I feel so disappointed."

"Is Uncle Frank coming?"

"Yes, Aunt Clara says he will come down from Stellarton if Mrs. King does not get worse. So
that will leave just one vacant place. We must invite someone to fill it up. Who shall it be?"

Both girls looked rather puzzled. Mrs. Allen smiled a quiet little smile all to herself and
went on chopping suet. She had handed the Thanksgiving dinner over to Frances and Alma this
year. They were to attend to all the preparations and invite all the guests. But although they
had made or planned several innovations in the dinner itself, they had made no change in the
usual list of guests.

"It must just be the time-honoured family affair," Frances had declared. "If we begin inviting
other folks, there is no knowing when to draw the line. We can't have more than fourteen, and
some of our friends would be sure to feel slighted."

So the same old list it was. But now Aunt Clara--dear, jolly Aunt Clara, whom everybody in
the connection loved and admired--could not come, and her place must be filled.

"We can't invite the new minister, because we would have to have his sister, too," said Frances.
"And there is no reason for asking any one of our girl chums more than another."

"Mother, you will have to help us out," said Alma. "Can't you suggest a substitute guest?"

Mrs. Allen looked down at the two bright, girlish faces turned up to her and said slowly, "I
think I can, but I am not sure my choice will please you. Why not ask Miss Price?"

Miss Price! They had never thought of her! She was the pale, timid-looking little teacher in
the primary department of the Hazelwood school.

"Miss Price?" repeated Frances slowly. "Why, Mother, we hardly know her. She is dreadfully
dull and quiet, I think."

"And so shy," said Alma. "Why, at the Wards' party the other night she looked startled to death
if anyone spoke to her. I believe she would be frightened to come here for Thanksgiving."

"She is a very lonely little creature," said Mrs. Allen gently, "and doesn't seem to have anyone
belonging to her. I think she would be very glad to get an invitation to spend Thanksgiving
elsewhere than in that cheerless little boarding-house where she lives."

"Of course, if you would like to have her, Mother, we will ask her," said Frances.

"No, girls," said Mrs. Allen seriously. "You must not ask Miss Price on my account, if you
do not feel prepared to make her welcome for her own sake. I had hoped that your own kind hearts
might have prompted you to extend a little Thanksgiving cheer in a truly Thanksgiving spirit
to a lonely, hard-working girl whose life I do not think is a happy one. But there, I shall
not preach. This is your dinner, and you must please yourselves as to your guests."

Frances and Alma had both flushed, and they now remained silent for a few minutes. Then Frances
sprang up and threw her arms around her mother.

"You're right, Mother dear, as you always are, and we are very selfish girls. We will ask Miss
Price and try to give her a nice time. I'll go down this very evening and see her."

       *       *       *       *       *

In the grey twilight of the chilly autumn evening Bertha Price walked home to her boarding-house,
her pale little face paler, and her grey eyes sadder than ever, in the fading light. Only two
days until Thanksgiving--but there would be no real Thanksgiving for her. Why, she asked herself
rebelliously, when there seemed so much love in the world, was she denied her share?

Her landlady met her in the hall.

"Miss Allen is in the parlour, Miss Price. She wants to see you."

Bertha went into the parlour somewhat reluctantly. She had met Frances Allen only once or twice
and she was secretly almost afraid of the handsome, vivacious girl who was so different from
herself.

"I am sorry you have had to wait, Miss Allen," she said shyly. "I went to see a pupil of mine
who is ill and I was kept later than I expected."

"My errand won't take very long," said Frances brightly. "Mother wants you to spend Thanksgiving
Day with us, Miss Price, if you have no other engagement. We will have a few other guests,
but nobody outside our own family except Mr. Seeley, who is the law partner and intimate friend
of my brother Ernest in town. You'll come, won't you?"

"Oh, thank you, yes," said Bertha, in pleased surprise. "I shall be very glad to go. Why, it
is so nice to think of it. I expected my Thanksgiving Day to be lonely and sad--not a bit Thanksgivingy."

"We shall expect you then," said Frances, with a cordial little hand-squeeze. "Come early in
the morning, and we will have a real friendly, pleasant day."

That night Frances said to her mother and sister, "You never saw such a transfigured face as
Miss Price's when I asked her up. She looked positively pretty--such a lovely pink came out
on her cheeks and her eyes shone like stars. She reminded me so much of somebody I've seen,
but I can't think who it is. I'm so glad we've asked her here for Thanksgiving!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Thanksgiving came, as bright and beautiful as a day could be, and the Allens' guests came with
it. Bertha Price was among them, paler and shyer than ever. Ernest Allen and his friend, Maxwell
Seeley, came out from town on the morning train.

After all the necessary introductions had been made, Frances flew to the kitchen.

"I've found out who it is Miss Price reminds me of," she said, as she bustled about the range.
"It's Max Seeley. You needn't laugh, Al. It's a fact. I noticed it the minute I introduced
them. He's plump and prosperous and she's pinched and pale, but there's a resemblance nevertheless.
Look for yourself and see if it isn't so."

Back in the big, cheery parlour the Thanksgiving guests were amusing themselves in various
ways. Max Seeley had given an odd little start when he was introduced to Miss Price, and as
soon as possible he followed her to the corner where she had taken refuge. Ernest Allen was
out in the kitchen talking to his sisters, the "uncles and cousins and aunts" were all chattering
to each other, and Mr. Seeley and Miss Price were quite unnoticed.

"You will excuse me, won't you, Miss Price, if I ask you something about yourself?" he said
eagerly. "The truth is, you look so strikingly like someone I used to know that I feel sure
you must be related to her. I do not think I have any relatives of your name. Have you any
of mine?"

Bertha flushed, hesitated for an instant, then said frankly, "No, I do not think so. But I
may as well tell you that Price is not my real name and I do not know what it is, although
I think it begins with S. I believe that my parents died when I was about three years old,
and I was then taken to an orphan asylum. The next year I was taken from there and adopted
by Mrs. Price. She was very kind to me and treated me as her own daughter. I had a happy home
with her, although we were poor. Mrs. Price wished me to bear her name, and I did so. She never
told me my true surname, perhaps she did not know it. She died when I was sixteen, and since
then I have been quite alone in the world. That is all I know about myself."

Max Seeley was plainly excited.

"Why do you think your real name begins with S?" he asked.

"I have a watch which belonged to my mother, with the monogram 'B.S.' on the case. It was left
with the matron of the asylum and she gave it to Mrs. Price for me. Here it is."

Max Seeley almost snatched the old-fashioned little silver watch, from her hand and opened
the case. An exclamation escaped him as he pointed to some scratches on the inner side. They
looked like the initials M.A.S.

"Let me tell my story now," he said. "My name is Maxwell Seeley. My father died when I was
seven years old, and my mother a year later. My little sister, Bertha, then three years old,
and I were left quite alone and very poor. We had no relatives. I was adopted by a well-to-do
old bachelor, who had known my father. My sister was taken to an orphan asylum in a city some
distance away. I was very much attached to her and grieved bitterly over our parting. My adopted
father was very kind to me and gave me a good education. I did not forget my sister, and as
soon as I could I went to the asylum. I found that she had been taken away long before, and
I could not even discover who had adopted her, for the original building, with all its records,
had been destroyed by fire two years previous to my visit. I never could find any clue to her
whereabouts, and long since gave up all hope of finding her. But I have found her at last.
You are Bertha Seeley, my little sister!"

"Oh--can it be possible!"

"More than possible--it is certain. You are the image of my mother, as I remember her, and
as an old daguerreotype I have pictures her. And this is her watch--see, I scratched my own
initials on the case one day. There is no doubt in the world. Oh, Bertha, are you half as glad
as I am?"

"Glad!"

Bertha's eyes were shining like stars. She tried to smile, but burst into tears instead and
her head went down on her brother's shoulder. By this time everybody in the room was staring
at the extraordinary tableau, and Ernest, coming through the hall, gave a whistle of astonishment
that brought the two in the corner back to a sense of their surroundings.

"I haven't suddenly gone crazy, Ernest, old fellow," smiled Max. "Ladies and gentlemen all,
this little school-ma'am was introduced to you as Miss Price, but that was a mistake. Let me
introduce her again as Miss Bertha Seeley, my long-lost and newly-found sister."

Well they had an amazing time then, of course. They laughed and questioned and explained until
the dinner was in imminent danger of getting stone-cold on the dining-room table. Luckily,
Alma and Frances remembered it just in the nick of time, and they all got out, somehow, and
into their places. It was a splendid dinner, but I believe that Maxwell and Bertha Seeley didn't
know what they were eating, any more than if it had been sawdust. However, the rest of the
guests made up for that, and did full justice to the girls' cookery.

In the afternoon they all went to church, and at least two hearts were truly and devoutly thankful
that day.

When the dusk came, Ernest and Maxwell had to catch the last train for town, and the other
guests went home, with the exception of Bertha, who was to stay all night. Just as soon as
her resignation could be effected, she was to join her brother.

"Meanwhile, I'll see about getting a house to put you in," said Max. "No more boarding out
for me, Ernest. You may consider me as a family man henceforth."

Frances and Alma talked it all over before they went to sleep that night.

"Just think," said Frances, "if we hadn't asked her here today she might never have found her
brother! It's all Mother's doing, bless her! Things do happen like a storybook sometimes, don't
they, Al? And didn't I tell you they looked alike?"

