Mr. Stockton passed away at a ripe age--sixty-eight years. And yet his death was a surprise
to us all. He had never been in better health, apparently; his brain was as active as ever;
life was dear to him; he seemed much younger than he was. He had no wish to give up his work;
no thought of old age; no mental decay. His last novels, his last short stories, showed no
falling-off. They were the equals of those written in younger years. Nor had he lost the public
interest. He was always sure of an audience, and his work commanded a higher price at the last
than ever before. His was truly a passing away. He gently glided from the homes he had loved
to prepare here to one already prepared for him in heaven, unconscious that he was entering
one more beautiful than even he had ever imagined.

Mr. Stockton was the most lovable of men. He shed happiness all around him, not from conscious
effort but out of his own bountiful and loving nature. His tender heart sympathized with the
sad and unfortunate, but he never allowed sadness to be near, if it were possible to prevent
it. He hated mourning and gloom. They seemed to paralyze him mentally until his bright spirit
had again asserted itself, and he had recovered his balance. He usually looked either upon
the best, or the humorous side of life. Pie won the love of every one who knew him--even that
of readers who did not know him personally, as many letters testify. To his friends his loss
is irreparable, for never again will they find his equal in such charming qualities of head
and heart.

This is not the place for a critical estimate of the work of Frank R. Stockton.[2] His stories
are, in great part, a reflex of himself. The bright outlook on life; the courageous spirit;
the helpfulness; the sense of the comic rather than the tragic; the love of domestic life;
the sweetness of pure affection; live in his books as they lived in himself. He had not the
heart to make his stories end unhappily. He knew that there is much of the tragic in human
lives, but he chose to ignore it as far as possible, and to walk in the pleasant ways which
are numerous in this tangled world. There is much philosophy underlying a good deal that he
wrote, but it has to be looked for; it is not insistent, and is never morbid. He could not
write an impure word, or express an impure thought, for he belonged to the "pure in heart,"
who, we are assured, "shall see God."

[Footnote 2: I may, however, properly quote from the sketch prepared by Mr. Gary for the Century
Club: "He brought to his later work the discipline of long and rather tedious labor, with the
capital amassed by acute observation, on which his original imagination wrought the sparkling
miracles that we know. He has been called the representative American humorist. He was that
in the sense that the characters he created had much of the audacity of the American spirit,
the thirst for adventures in untried fields of thought and action, the subconscious seriousness
in the most incongruous situations, the feeling of being at home no matter what happens. But
how amazingly he mingled a broad philosophy with his fun, a philosophy not less wise and comprehending
than his fun was compelling! If his humor was American, it was also cosmopolitan, and had its
laughing way not merely with our British kinsmen, but with alien peoples across the usually
impenetrable barrier of translation. The fortune of his jesting lay not in his ears, but in
the hearts of his hearers. It was at once appealing and revealing. It flashed its playful light
into the nooks and corners of our own being, and wove close bonds with those at whom we laughed.
There was no bitterness in it. He was neither satirist nor preacher, nor of set purpose a teacher,
though it must be a dull reader that does not gather from his books the lesson of the value
of a gentle heart and a clear, level outlook upon our perplexing world."]

MARIAN E. STOCKTON.

CLAYMONT, May 15, 1903.

THE CAPTAIN'S TOLL-GATE

CHAPTER I

Olive.

A long, wide, and smoothly macadamized road stretched itself from the considerable town of
Glenford onward and northward toward a gap in the distant mountains. It did not run through
a level country, but rose and fell as if it had been a line of seaweed upon the long swells
of the ocean. Upon elevated points upon this road, farm lands and forests could be seen extending
in every direction. But there was nothing in the landscape which impressed itself more obtrusively
upon the attention of the traveler than the road itself. White in the bright sunlight and gray
under the shadows of the clouds, it was the one thing to be seen which seemed to have a decided
purpose. Northward or southward, toward the gap in the long line of mountains or toward the
wood-encircled town in the valley, it was always going somewhere.

About two miles from the town, and at the top of the first long hill which was climbed by the
road, a tall white pole projected upward against the sky, sometimes perpendicularly, and sometimes
inclined at a slight angle. This was a turnpike gate or bar, and gave notice to all in vehicles
or on horses that the use of this well-kept road was not free to the traveling public. At the
approach of persons not known, or too well known, the bar would slowly descend across the road,
as if it were a musket held horizontally while a sentinel demanded the password.

Upon the side of the road opposite to the great post on which the toll-gate moved, was a little
house with a covered doorway, from which toll could be collected without exposing the collector
to sun or rain. This tollhouse was not a plain whitewashed shed, such as is often seen upon
turnpike roads, but a neat edifice, containing a comfortable room. On one side of it was a
small porch, well shaded by vines, furnished with a settle and two armchairs, while over all
a large maple stretched its protecting branches. Back of the tollhouse was a neatly fenced
garden, well filled with old-fashioned flowers; and, still farther on, a good-sized house,
from which a box-bordered path led through the garden to the tollhouse.

It was a remark that had been made frequently, both by strangers and residents in that part
of the country, that if it had not been for the obvious disadvantages of a toll-gate, this
house and garden, with its grounds and fields, would be a good enough home for anybody. When
he happened to hear this remark Captain John Asher, who kept the toll-gate, was wont to say
that it was a good enough home for him, even with the toll-gate, and its obvious disadvantages.

It was on a morning in early summer, when the garden had grown to be so red and white and yellow
in its flowers, and so green in its leaves and stalks, that the box which edged the path was
beginning to be unnoticed, that a girl sat in a small arbor standing on a slight elevation
at one side of the garden, and from which a view could be had both up and down the road. She
was rather a slim girl, though tall enough; her hair was dark, her eyes were blue, and she
sat on the back of a rustic bench with her feet resting upon the seat; this position she had
taken that she might the better view the road.

With both her hands this girl held a small telescope which she was endeavoring to fix upon
a black spot a mile or more away upon the road. It was difficult for her to hold the telescope
steadily enough to keep the object-glass upon the black spot, and she had a great deal of trouble
in the matter of focusing, pulling out and pushing in the smaller cylinder in a manner which
showed that she was not accustomed to the use of this optical instrument.

"Field-glasses are ever so much better," she said to herself; "you can screw them to any point
you want. But now I've got it. It is very near that cross-road. Good! it did not turn there;
it is coming along the pike, and there will be toll to pay. One horse, seven cents."

She put down the telescope as if to rest her arm and eye. Presently, however, she raised the
glass again. "Now, let us see," she said, "Uncle John? Jane? or me?" After directing the glass
to a point in the air about two hundred feet above the approaching vehicle, and then to another
point half a mile to the right of it, she was fortunate enough to catch sight of it again.
"I don't know that queer-looking horse," she said. "It must be some stranger, and Jane will
do. No, a little boy is driving. Strangers coming along this road would not be driven by little
boys. I expect I shall have to call Uncle John." Then she put down the glass and rubbed her
eye, after which, with unassisted vision, she gazed along the road. "I can see a great deal
better without that old thing," she continued. "There's a woman in that carriage. I'll go myself."
With this she jumped down from the rustic seat, and with the telescope under her arm, she skipped
through the garden to the little tollhouse.

The name of this girl was Olive Asher. Captain John Asher, who took the toll, was her uncle,
and she had now been living with him for about six weeks. Olive was what is known in certain
social circles as a navy girl. About twenty years before she had come to her uncle's she had
been born in Genoa, her father at the time being a lieutenant on an American war-vessel lying
in the harbor of Villa Franca. Her first schooldays were passed in the south of France, and
she spent some subsequent years in a German school in Dresden. Here she was supposed to have
finished her education but when her father's ship was stationed on our Pacific coast and Olive
and her mother went to San Francisco they associated a great deal with army people, and here
the girl learned so much more of real life and her own country people that the few years she
spent in the far West seemed like a post-graduate course, as important to her true education
as any of the years she had spent in schools.

After the death of her mother, when Olive was about eighteen, the girl had lived with relatives,
East and West, hoping for the day when her father's three years' cruise would terminate, and
she could go and make a home for him in some pleasant spot on shore. Now, in the course of
these family visits she had come to stay with her father's brother, John Asher, who kept the
toll-gate on the Glenford pike.

Captain John Asher was an older man than his brother, the naval officer, but he was in the
prime of life, and able to hold the command of a ship if he had cared to do it. But having
been in the merchant service for a long time, and having made some money, he had determined
to leave the sea and to settle on shore; and, finding this commodious house by the toll-gate,
he settled there. There were some people who said that he had taken the position of toll-gate
keeper because of the house, and there were others who believed that he had bought the house
on account of the toll-gate. But no matter what people thought or said, the good captain was
very well satisfied with his home and his official position. He liked to meet with people,
and he preferred that they should come to him rather than that he should go to them. He was
interested in most things that were going on in his neighborhood, and therefore he liked to
talk to the people who were going by. Sometimes a good talking acquaintance or an interesting
traveler would tie his horse under the shade of the maple-tree and sit a while with the captain
on the little porch. Certain it was, it was the most hospitable toll-gate in that part of the
country.

There was a road which branched off from the turnpike, about a mile from the town, and which,
after some windings, entered the pike again beyond the toll-gate, and although this road was
not always in very good condition, it had seen a good deal of travel, which, in time, gave
it the name of the shunpike. But since Captain Asher had lived at the toll-gate it was remarked
that the shunpike was not used as much as in former times. There were penurious people who
had once preferred to go a long way round and save money whose economical dispositions now
gave way before the combined attractions of a better road, and a chat with Captain Asher.

It had been predicted by some of her relatives that Olive would not be content with her life
in her uncle's somewhat peculiar household. He was a bachelor, and seldom entertained company,
and his ordinary family consisted of an elderly housekeeper and another servant. But Olive
was not in the least dissatisfied. From her infancy up, she had lived so much among people
that she had grown tired of them; and her good-natured uncle, with his sea stories, the garden,
the old-fashioned house, the fields and the woods beyond, the little stream, which came hurrying
down from the mountains, where she could fish or wade as the fancy pleased her, gave her a
taste of some of the joys of girlhood which she had not known when she was really a girl.

Another thing that greatly interested her was the toll-gate. If she had been allowed to do
so, she would have spent the greater part of her time taking money, making change, and talking
to travelers. But this her uncle would not permit. He did not object to her doing some occasional
toll-gate work, and he did not wonder that she liked it, remembering how interesting it often
was to himself, but he would not let her take toll indiscriminately.

So they made a regular arrangement about it. When the captain was at his meals, or shaving,
or otherwise occupied, old Jane attended to the toll-gate. At ordinary times, and when any
of his special friends were seen approaching, the captain collected toll himself, but when
women happened to be traveling on the road, then it was arranged that Olive should go to the gate.

Two or three times it had happened that some young men of the town, hearing their sisters talk
of the pretty girl who had taken their toll, had thought it might be a pleasant thing to drive
out on the pike, but their money had always been taken by the captain, or else by the wooden-faced
Jane, and nothing had come of their little adventures.

The garden hedge which ran alongside the road was very high.

CHAPTER II

Maria Port.

Olive stood impatiently at the door of the little tollhouse. In one hand she held three copper
cents, because she felt almost sure that the person approaching would give her a dime or two
five-cent pieces.

"I never knew horses to travel so slowly as they do on this pike!" she said to herself. "How
they used to gallop on those beautiful roads in France!"

In due course of time the vehicle approached near enough to the toll-gate for Olive to take
an observation of its occupant. This was a middle-aged woman, dressed in black, holding a black
fan. She wore a black bonnet with a little bit of red in it. Her face was small and pale, its
texture and color suggesting a boiled apple dumpling. She had small eyes of which it can be
said that they were of a different color from her face, and were therefore noticeable. Her
lips were not prominent, and were closely pressed together as if some one had begun to cut
a dumpling, but had stopped after making one incision.

This somewhat somber person leaned forward in the seat behind her young driver, and steadily
stared at Olive. When the horse had passed the toll-bar the boy stopped it so that his passenger
and Olive were face to face and very near each other.

"Seven cents, please," said Olive.

The cleft in the dumpling enlarged itself, and the woman spoke. "Bless my soul," she said,
"are you Captain Asher's niece?"

"I am," said Olive in surprise.

"Well, well," said the other, "that just beats me! When I heard he had his niece with him I
thought she was a plain girl, with short frocks and her hair plaited down her back."

Olive did not like this woman. It is wonderful how quickly likes and dislikes may be generated.

"But you see I am not," she replied. "Seven cents, please."

"Don't you suppose I know what the toll is?" said the woman in the carriage. "I'm sure I've
traveled over this road often enough to know that. But what I'm thinkin' about is the difference
between what I thought the captain's niece was and what she really is."

"It does not make any difference what the difference is," said Olive, speaking quickly and
with perhaps a little sharpness in her voice, "all I want is for you to pay me the toll."

"I'm not goin' to pay any toll," said the other.

Olive's face flushed. "Little boy," she exclaimed, "back that horse!" As the youngster obeyed
her peremptory request Olive gave a quick jerk to a rope and brought down the toll-gate bar
so that it stretched itself across the road, barely missing in its downward sweep the nose
of the unoffending horse. "Now," said Olive, "if you are ready to pay your toll you can go
through this gate, and if you are not, you can turn round and go back where you came from."

"I'm not goin' to pay any toll," said the other, "and I don't want to go through the gate.
I came to see Captain Asher.--Johnny, turn your horse a little and let me get out. Then you
can stop in the shade of this tree and wait until I'm ready to go back.--I suppose the captain's
in," she said to Olive, "but if he isn't, I can wait."

"Oh, he's at home," said Olive, "and, of course, if I had known you were coming to see him,
I would not have asked you for your toll. This way, please," and she stepped toward a gate
in the garden hedge.

"When I've been here before," said the visitor, "I always went through the tollhouse. But I
suppose things is different now."

"This is the entrance for visitors," said Olive, holding open the gate.

Captain Asher had heard the voices, and had come out to his front door. He shook hands with
the newcomer, and then turned to Olive, who was following her.

"This is my niece, my brother Alfred's daughter," he said, "and Olive, let me introduce you
to Miss Maria Port."

"She introduced herself to me," said Miss Port, "and tried to get seven cents out of me by
letting down the bar so that it nearly broke my horse's nose. But we'll get to know each other
better. She's very different from what I thought she was."

"Most people are," said Captain Asher, as he offered a chair to Miss Port in his parlor, and
sat down opposite to her. Olive, who did not care to hear herself discussed, quietly passed
out of the room.

"Captain," said Miss Port, leaning forward, "how old is she, anyway?"

"About twenty," was the answer.

"And how long is she going to stay?"

"All summer, I hope," said Captain John.

"Well, she won't do it, I can tell you that," remarked Miss Port. "She'll get tired enough
of this place before the summer's out."

"We shall see about that," said the captain, "but she is not tired yet."

"And her mother's dead, and she's wearin' no mournin'."

"Why should she?" said the captain. "It would be a shame for a young girl like her to be wearing
black for two years."

"She's delicate, ain't she?"

"I have not seen any signs of it."

"What did her mother die of?"

"I never heard," said the captain; "perhaps it was the bubonic plague."

Miss Port pushed back her chair and drew her skirts about her.

"Horrible!" she exclaimed. "And you let that child come here!"

The captain smiled. "Perhaps it wasn't that," he said. "It might have been an avalanche, and
that is not catching."

Miss Port looked at him seriously. "It's a great pity she's so handsome," she said.

"I don't think so; I am glad of it," replied the captain.

Miss Port heaved a sigh. "What that girl is goin' to need," she said, "is a female guardeen."

"Would you like to take the place?" asked the captain with a grin.

At that instant it might have been supposed that a certain dumpling which has been mentioned
was made of very red apples and that its covering of dough was somewhat thin in certain places.
Miss Port's eyes were bent for an instant upon the floor.

"That is a thing," she said, "which would need a great deal of consideration."

A sudden thrill ran through the captain which was not unlike a moment in his past career when
a gentle shudder had run through his ship as its keel grazed an unsuspected sand-bar, and he
had not known whether it was going to stick fast or not; but he quickly got himself into deep
water again.

"Oh, she is all right," said he briskly; "she has been used to taking care of herself almost
ever since she was born. And by the way, Miss Port, did you know that Mr. Easterfield is at
his home?"

Miss Port was not pleased with the sudden change in the conversation, and she remembered, too,
that in other days it had been the captain's habit to call her Maria.

"I did not know he had a home," she answered. "I thought it was her'n. But since you've mentioned
it, I might as well say that it was about him I came to see you. I heard that he came to town
yesterday, and that her carriage met him at the station, and drove him out to her house. I
hoped he had stopped a minute as he drove through your toll-gate, and that you might have had
a word with him, or at least a good look at him. Mercy me!" she suddenly ejaculated, as a look
of genuine disappointment spread over her face; "I forgot. The coachman would have paid the
toll as he went to town, and there was no need of stoppin' as they went back. I might have
saved myself this trip."

The captain laughed. "It stands to reason that it might have been that way," he said, "but
it wasn't. He stopped, and I talked to him for about five minutes."

The face of Miss Port now grew radiant, and she pulled her chair nearer to Captain Asher. "Tell
me," said she, "is he really anybody?"

"He is a good deal of a body," answered the captain. "I should say he is pretty nearly six
feet high, and of considerable bigness."

"Well!" exclaimed Miss Port, "I'd thought he was a little dried-up sort of a mummy man that
you might hang up on a nail and be sure you'd find him when you got back. Did he talk?"

"Oh, yes," said the captain, "he talked a good deal."

"And what did he tell you?"

"He did not tell me anything, but he asked a lot of questions."

"What about?" said Miss Port quickly.

"Everything. Fishing, gunning, crops, weather, people."

"Well, well!" she exclaimed. "And don't you suppose his wife could have told him all that,
and she's been livin' here--this is the second summer. Did he say how long he's goin' to stay?"

"No."

"And you didn't ask him?"

"I told you he asked the questions," replied the captain.

"Well, I wish I'd been here," Miss Port remarked fervently. "I'd got something out of him."

"No doubt of that," thought the captain, but he did not say so.

"If he expects to pass himself off as just a common man," continued Miss Port, "that's goin'
to spend the rest of his summer here with his family, he can't do it. He's first got to explain
why he never came near that young woman and her two babies for the whole of last summer, and,
so far as I've heard, he was never mentioned by her. I think, Captain Asher, that for the sake
of the neighborhood, if you don't care about such things yourself, you might have made use
of this opportunity. As far as I know, you're the only person in or about Glenford that's spoke
to him."

The captain smiled. "Sometimes, I suppose," said he, "I don't say enough, and sometimes I say
too much, but--"

"Then I wish he'd struck you more on an average," interrupted Miss Port. "But there's no use
talkin' any more about it. I hired a horse and a carriage and a boy to come out here this mornin'
to ask you about that man. And what's come of it? You haven't got a single thing to tell anybody
except that he's big."

The captain changed the subject again. "How is your father?" he asked.

"Pop's just the same as he always is," was the answer. "And now, as I don't want to lose the
whole of the seventy-five cents I've got to pay, suppose you call in that niece of yours, and
let me have a talk with her. Perhaps I can get something interesting out of her."

The captain left the room, but he did not move with alacrity. He found Olive with a book in
a hammock at the back of the house. When he told her his errand she sat up with a sudden bounce,
her feet upon the ground.

"Uncle," she said, "isn't that woman a horrid person?"

The captain was a merry-minded man, and he laughed. "It is pretty hard for me to answer that
question," said he; "suppose you go in and find out for yourself."

Olive hesitated; she was a girl who had a very high opinion of herself and a very low opinion
of such a person as this Miss Port seemed to be. Why should she go in and talk to her? Still
undecided, she left the hammock and made a few steps toward the house. Then, with a sudden
exclamation, she stopped and dropped her book.

"Buggy coming," she exclaimed, "and that thing is running to take the toll!" With these words
she started away with the speed of a colt.

An approaching buggy was on the road; Miss Maria Port, walking rapidly, had nearly reached
the back door of the tollhouse when Olive swept by her so closely that the wind of her fluttering
garments almost blew away the breath of the elder woman.

"Seven cents!" cried Olive, standing in the covered doorway, but she might have saved herself
the trouble of repeating this formula, for the man in the buggy was not near enough to hear her.

When Olive saw it was a man, she turned, and perceiving her uncle approaching the tollhouse,
she hurried by him up the garden path, looking neither to the right nor to the left.

"A pretty girl that is of yours!" exclaimed Miss Port. "She might just as well have slapped
me in the face!"

"But what were you going to do in here?" asked Captain Asher. "You know that's against the rules."

"The rules be bothered," replied the irate Maria. "I thought it was Mr. Smiley. He's been away
from his parish for a week, and there are a good many things I want to ask him."

"Well, it is the Roman Catholic priest from Marlinsville," said Captain Asher, "and he wouldn't
tell you anything if you asked him."

The captain had a cheerful little chat with the priest, who was one of his most valued road
friends; and when he returned to his garden he found Miss Port walking up and down the main
path in a state of agitation.

"I should think," said she, "that the company would have something to say about your takin'
up your time talkin' to people on the road. I've heard that sometimes they get out, and spend
hours talkin' and smokin' with you. I guess that's against the rules."

"It is all right between the company and me," replied the captain. "You know I am a stockholder
in a small way."

"You are!" exclaimed Miss Port. "Well, I've got somethin' by comin' here, anyway." Stowing
away this bit of information in regard to the captain's resources in her mind for future consideration,
she continued: "I don't think much of that niece of your'n. Has she never lived anywhere where
the people had good manners?"

Olive, who had gone to her room in order to be out of the way of this queer visitor, now sat
by an upper window, and it was impossible that she should fail to hear this remark, made by
Miss Port in her most querulous tones. Olive immediately left the window, and sat down on the
other side of the room.

"Good manners!" she ejaculated, and fell to thinking. Her present situation had suddenly presented
itself to her in a very different light from that in which she had previously regarded it.
She was living in a very plain house in a very plain way, with a very plain uncle who kept
a tollhouse; but she liked him; and, until this moment, she had liked the life. But now she
asked herself if it were possible for her longer to endure it if she were to be condemned to
intercourse with people like that thing down in the garden. If her uncle's other friends in
Glenford were of that grade she could not stay here. She smiled in spite of her irritation
as she thought of the woman's words--"Anywhere where the people had good manners."

Good manners, indeed! She remembered the titled young officers in Germany with whom she had
talked and danced when she was but seventeen years old, and who used to send her flowers. She
remembered the people of rank in the army and navy and in the state who used to invite her
mother and herself to their houses. She remembered the royal prince who had wished to be presented
to her, and whose acquaintance she had declined because she did not like what she had heard
of him. She remembered the good friends of her father in Europe and America, ladies and gentlemen
of the army and navy. She remembered the society in which she had mingled when living with
her Boston aunt during the past winter. Then she thought of Miss Port's question. Good manners,
indeed!

"Well," said the perturbed Maria, after having been informed by the captain that his niece
was accustomed to move in the best circles, "I don't want to go into the house again, for if
I was to meet her, I'm sure I couldn't keep my temper. But I'll say this to you, Captain Asher,
that I pity the woman that's her guardeen. And now, if you'll help my boy turn round so he
won't upset the carriage, I'll be goin'. But before I go I'll just say this, that if you'd
been in the habit of takin' advantage of the chances that come to you, I believe that you'd
be a good deal better off than you are now, even if you do own shares in the turnpike company."

It was not difficult for the captain to recognize some of the chances to which she alluded;
one of them she herself had offered him several times.

"Oh, I am very well off as I am," he answered, "but perhaps some day I may have something to
tell you of the Easterfields and about their doings up on the mountain."

"About her doin's, you might as well say," retorted Miss Port. "No matter what you tell me,
I don't believe a word about his ever doin' anything." With this she walked to the little phaeton,
into which the captain helped her.

"Uncle John," said Olive, a few minutes later, "are there many people like that in Glenford?"

"My dear child," said the captain, "the people in Glenford, the most of them, I mean, are just
as nice people as you would want to meet. They are ladies and gentlemen, and they are mighty
good company. They don't often come out here, to be sure, but I know most of them, and I ought
to be ashamed of myself that I have not made you acquainted with them before this. As to Maria
Port, there is only one of her in Glenford, and, so far as I know, there isn't another just
like her in the whole world. Now I come to think of it," he continued, "I wonder why some of
the young people have not come out to call on you. But if that Maria Port has been going around
telling them that you are a little girl in short frocks it is not so surprising."

"Oh, don't bother yourself, Uncle John, about calls and society," said Olive. "If you can only
manage that that woman takes the shunpike whenever she drives this way, I shall be perfectly
satisfied with everything just as it is."

CHAPTER III

Mrs. Easterfield.

On the side of the mountain, a few miles to the west of the gap to which the turnpike stretched
itself, there was a large estate and a large house which had once belonged to the Sudley family.
For a hundred years or more the Sudleys had been important people in this part of the country,
but it had been at least two decades since any of them had lived on this estate. Some of them
had gone to cities and towns, and others had married, or in some other fashion had melted away
so that their old home knew them no more.

Although it was situated on the borders of the Southern country, the house, which was known
as Broadstone, from the fact that a great flat rock on the level of the surrounding turf extended
itself for many feet at the front of the principal entrance, was not constructed after ordinary
Southern fashions. Some of the early Sudleys were of English blood and proclivities, and so
it was partly like an English house; some of them had taken Continental ideas into the family,
and there was a certain solidity about the walls; while here and there the narrowness of the
windows suggested southern Europe. Some parts of the great stone walls had been stuccoed, and
some had been whitewashed. Here and there vines climbed up the walls and stretched themselves
under the eaves. As the house stood on a wide bluff, there was a lawn from which one could
see over the tree tops the winding river sparkling far below. There were gardens and fields
on the open slopes, and beyond these the forests rose to the top of the mountains.

The ceilings of the house were high, and the halls and rooms were wide and airy; the trees
on the edge of the woods seemed always to be rustling in a wind from one direction or another,
and a lady; Mrs. Easterfield; who several years before had been traveling in that part of the
country; declared that Broadstone was the most delightful place for a summer residence that
she had ever seen, either in this country or across the ocean. So, with the consent and money
of her husband, she had bought the estate the summer before the time of our story, and had
gone there to live.

Mr. Easterfield was what is known as a railroad man, and held high office in many companies
and organizations. When his wife first went to Broadstone he was obliged to spend the summer
in Europe, and had agreed with her that the estate on the mountains would be the best place
for her and the two little girls while he was away. This state of affairs had occasioned a
good deal of talk, especially in Glenford, a town with which the Easterfields had but little
to do, and which therefore had theorized much in order to explain to its own satisfaction the
conduct of a comparatively young married woman who was evidently rich enough to spend her summers
at any of the most fashionable watering-places, but who chose to go with her young family to
that old barracks of a house, and who had a husband who never came near her or his children,
and who, so far as the Glenford people knew, she never mentioned.

Mrs. Margaret Easterfield was a very fine woman, both to look at and to talk to, but she did
not believe that her duty to her fellow-beings demanded that she should devote her first summer
months at her new place to the gratification of the eyes and ears of her friends and acquaintances,
so she had gone to Broadstone with her family--all females--with servants enough, and for the
whole of the summer they had all been very happy.

But this summer things were going to be a little different at Broadstone, for Mrs. Easterfield
had arranged for some house parties. Her husband was very kind and considerate about her plans,
and promised her that he would make one of the good company at Broadstone whenever it was possible
for him to do so.

So now it happened that he had come to see his wife and children and the house in which they
lived; and, having had some business at a railroad center in the South, he had come through
Glenford, which was unusual, as the intercourse between Broadstone and the great world was
generally maintained through the gap in the mountains.

With his wife by his side and a little girl on each shoulder, Mr. Tom Easterfield walked through
the grounds and the gardens and out on the lawn, and looked down over the tops of the trees
upon the river which sparkled far below, and he said to his wife that if she would let him
do it he would send a landscape-gardener, with a great company of Italians, and they would
make the place a perfect paradise in about five days.

"It could be ruined a great deal quicker by an army of locusts," she said, "and so, if you
do not mind, I think I will wait for the locusts."

It was not time yet for any of the members of the house parties to make their appearance, and
it was the general desire of his family that Mr. Easterfield should remain until some of the
visitors arrived, but he could not gratify them. Three days after his arrival he was obliged
to be in Atlanta; and so, soon after breakfast one fine morning, the Easterfield carriage drove
over the turnpike to the Glenford station, Mr. and Mrs. Easterfield on the back seat, and the
two little girls sitting opposite, their feet sticking out straight in front of them.

When they stopped at the toll-gate Captain Asher came down to collect the toll--ten cents for
two horses and a carriage. Olive was sitting in the little arbor, reading. She had noticed
the approaching equipage and saw that there was a lady in it, but for some reason or other
she was not so anxious as she had been to collect toll from ladies. If she could have arranged
the matter to suit herself she would have taken toll from the male travelers, and her Uncle
John might attend to the women; she did not believe that men would have such absurd ideas about
people or ask ridiculous questions.

There was no conversation at the gate on this occasion, for the carriage was a little late,
but as it rolled on Mrs. Margaret said to Mr. Tom:

"It seems to me as though I have just had a glimpse of Dresden. What do you suppose could have
suggested that city to me?"

Mr. Tom could not imagine, unless it was the dust. She laughed, and said that he had dust and
ballast and railroads on the brain; and when the oldest little girl asked what that meant,
Mrs. Margaret told her that the next time her father came home she would make him sit down
on the floor and then she would draw on that great bald spot of his head, which they had so
often noticed, a map of the railroad lines in which he was concerned, and then his daughters
would understand why he was always thinking of railroad-tracks and that sort of thing with
the inside of his head, which, as she had told them, was that part of a person with which he
did his thinking.

"Don't they sell some sort of annual or monthly tickets for this turnpike?" asked Mr. Tom.
"If they do, you would save yourself the trouble of stopping to pay toll and make change."

"I so seldom use this road," she said, "that it would not be worth while. One does not stop
on returning, you know."

But notwithstanding this speech, when Mrs. Easterfield returned from the Glenford station,
one little girl sitting beside her and the other one opposite, both of them with their feet
sticking out, she ordered her coachman to stop when he reached the toll-gate.

Olive was still sitting in the arbor, reading. The captain was not visible, and the wooden-faced
Jane, noticing that the travelers were a lady and two little girls, did not consider that she
had any right to interfere with Miss Olive's prerogatives; so that young lady felt obliged
to go to the toll-gate to see what was wanted.

"You know you do not have to pay going back," she said.

"I know that," answered Mrs. Easterfield, "but I want to ask about tickets or monthly payments
of toll, or whatever your arrangements are for that sort of thing."

"I really do not know," said Olive, "but I will go and ask about it."

"But stop one minute," exclaimed Mrs. Easterfield, leaning over the side of the carriage. "Is
it your father who keeps this toll-gate?"

For some reason or other which she could not have explained to herself, Olive felt that it
was incumbent upon her to assert herself, and she answered: "Oh, no, indeed. My father is Lieutenant-Commander
Alfred Asher, of the cruiser Hopatcong."

Without another word Mrs. Easterfield pushed open the door of the carriage and stepped to the
ground, exclaiming: "As I passed this morning I knew there was something about this place that
brought back to my mind old times and old friends, and now I see what it was; it was you. I
caught but one glimpse of you and I did not know you. But it was enough. I knew your father
very well when I was a girl, and later I was with him and your mother in Dresden. You were
a girl of twelve or thirteen, going to school, and I never saw much of you. But it is either
your father or your mother that I saw in your face as you sat in that arbor, and I knew the
face, although I did not know who owned it. I am Mrs. Easterfield, but that will not help you
to know me, for I was not married when I knew your father."

Olive's eyes sparkled as she took the two hands extended to her. "I don't remember you at all,"
she said, "but if you are the friend of my father and mother--"

"Then I am to be your friend, isn't it?" interrupted Mrs. Easterfield.

"I hope so," answered Olive.

"Now, then," said Mrs. Easterfield, "I want you to tell me how in the world you come to be here."

There were two stools in the tollhouse, and Olive, having invited her visitor to seat herself
on the better one, took the other, and told Mrs. Easterfield how she happened to be there.

"And that handsome elderly man who took the toll this morning is your uncle?"

"Yes, my father's only brother," said Olive.

"A good deal older," said Mrs. Easterfield.

"Oh, yes, but I do not know how much."

"And you call him captain. Was he also in the navy?"

"No," said Olive, "he was in the merchant service, and has retired. It seems queer that he
should be keeping a toll-gate, but my father has often told me that Uncle John does not care
for appearances, and likes to do things that please him. He likes to keep the tollhouse because
it brings him in touch with the world."

"Very sensible in him," said Mrs. Easterfield. "I think I would like to keep a toll-gate myself."

Captain Asher had seen the carriage stop, and knew that Mrs. Easterfield was talking to Olive,
but he did not think himself called upon to intrude upon them. But now it was necessary for
him to go to the tollhouse. Two men in a buggy with a broken spring and a coffee bag laid over
the loins of an imperfectly set-up horse had been waiting for nearly a minute behind Mrs. Easterfield's
carriage, desiring to pay their toll and pass through. So the captain went out of the garden-gate,
collected the toll from the two men, and directed them to go round the carriage and pass on
in peace, which they did.

Then Mrs. Easterfield rose from her stool, and approached the tollhouse door, and, as a matter
of course, the captain was obliged to step forward and meet her. Olive introduced him to the
lady, who shook hands with him very cordially.

"I have found the daughter of an old friend," said she, and then they all went into the tollhouse
again, where the two ladies reseated themselves, and after some explanatory remarks Mrs. Easterfield
said:

"Now, Captain Asher, I must not stay here blocking up your toll-gate all the morning, but I
want to ask of you a very great favor. I want you to let your niece come and make me a visit.
I want a good visit--at least ten days. You must remember that her father and I, and her mother,
too, were very good friends. Now there are so many things I want to talk over with Miss Olive,
and I am sure you will let me have her just for ten short days. There are no guests at Broadstone
yet, and I want her. You do not know how much I want her."

Captain Asher stood up tall and strong, his broad shoulders resting against the frame of the
open doorway. It was a positive delight to him to stand thus and look at such a beautiful woman.
So far as he could see, there was nothing about her with which to find fault. If she had been
a ship he would have said that her lines were perfect, spars and rigging just as he would have
them. In addition to her other perfections, she was large enough. The captain considered himself
an excellent judge of female beauty, and he had noticed that a great many fine women were too
small. With Olive's personal appearance he was perfectly satisfied, although she was slight,
but she was young, and would probably expand. If he had had a daughter he would have liked
her to resemble Mrs. Easterfield, but that feeling did not militate in the least against Olive.
In his mind it was not necessary for a niece to be quite as large as a daughter ought to be.

"But what does Olive say about it?" he asked.

"I have not been asked yet," replied Olive, "but it seems to me that I--"

"Would like to do it," interrupted Mrs. Easterfield. "Now, isn't that so, dear Olive?"

The girl looked at the captain. "It depends upon what you say about it, Uncle John."

The captain slightly knitted his brows. "If it were for one night, or perhaps a couple of days,"
he said, "it would be different. But what am I to do without Olive for nearly two weeks? I
am just beginning to learn what a poor place my house would be without her."

At this minute a man upon a rapidly trotting pony stopped at the toll-gate.

"Excuse me one minute," continued the captain, "here is a person who can not wait," and stepping
outside he said good morning to a bright-looking young fellow riding a sturdy pony and wearing
on his cap a metal plate engraved "United States Rural Delivery."

The carrier brought but one letter to the tollhouse, and that was for Captain Asher himself.
As the man rode away the captain thought he might as well open his letter before he went back.
This would give the ladies a chance to talk further over the matter. He read the letter, which
was not long, put it in his pocket, and then entered the tollhouse. There was now no doubt
or sign of disturbance on his features.

"I have considered your invitation, madam," said he, "and as I see Olive wants to visit you,
I shall not interfere."

"Of course she does," cried Mrs. Easterfield, springing to her feet, "and I thank you ever
and ever so much, Captain Asher. And now, my dear," said she to Olive, "I am going to send
the carriage for you to-morrow morning." And with this she put her arm around the girl and
kissed her. Then, having warmly shaken hands with the captain, she departed.

"Do you know, Uncle John," said Olive, "I believe if you were twenty years older she would
have kissed you."

With a grim smile the captain considered; would he have been willing to accept those additional
years under the circumstances? He could not immediately make up his mind, and contented himself
with the reflection that Olive did not think him old enough for the indiscriminate caresses
of young people.

CHAPTER IV

The Son of an Old Shipmate.

When Olive came down to breakfast the next morning she half repented that she had consented
to go away and leave her uncle for so long a time. But when she made known her state of mind
the captain laughed at her.

"My child," said he, "I want you to go. Of course, I did not take to the notion at first, but
I did not consider then what you will have to tell when you come home. The people of Glenford
will be your everlasting debtors. It might be a good thing to invite Maria Port out here. You
could give her the best time she ever had in her life, telling her about the Broadstone people."

"Maria Port, indeed!" said Olive. "But we won't talk of her. And you really are willing I should
go?"

"I speak the truth when I say I want you to go," replied the captain.

Whereupon Olive assured him that he was truly a good uncle.

After the Easterfield carriage had rolled away with Olive alone on the back seat, waving her
handkerchief, the captain requested Jane to take entire charge of the toll-gate for a time;
and, having retired to his own room, he took from his pocket the letter he had received the
day before.

"I must write an answer to this," he said, "before the postman comes."

The letter was from one of the captain's old shipmates, Captain Richard Lancaster, the best
friend he had had when he was in the merchant service. Captain Lancaster had often been asked
by his old friend to visit him at the toll-gate, but, being married and rheumatic, he had never
accepted the invitation. But now he wrote that his son, Dick, had planned a holiday trip which
would take him through Glenford, and that, if it suited Captain Asher, the father would accept
for the son the long-standing invitation. Captain Lancaster wrote that as he could not go himself
to his old friend Asher, the next best thing would be for his son to go, and when the young
man returned he could tell his father all about Captain Asher. There would be something in
that like old times. Besides, he wanted his former shipmate to know his son Dick, who was,
in his eyes, a very fine young fellow.

"There never was such a lucky thing in the world," said Captain Asher to himself, when he had
finished rereading the letter. "Of course, I want to have Dick Lancaster's son here, but I
could not have had him if Olive had been here. But now it is all right. The young fellow can
stay here a few days, and he will be gone before she gets back. If I like him I can ask him
to come again; but that's my business. Handsome women, like that Mrs. Easterfield, always bring
good luck. I have noticed that many and many a time."

Then he set himself to work to write a letter to invite young Richard Lancaster to spend a
few days with him.

For the rest of that day, and the greater part of the next, Captain Asher gave a great deal
of thinking time to the consideration of the young man who was about to visit him, and of whom,
personally, he knew very little. He was aware that Captain Lancaster had a son and no other
children, and he was quite sure that this son must now be a grown-up young man. He remembered
very well that Captain Lancaster was a fine young fellow when he first knew him, and he did
not doubt at all that the son resembled the father. He did not believe that young Dick was
a sailor, because he and old Dick had often said to each other that if they married their sons
should not go to sea. Of course he was in some business; and Captain Lancaster ought to be
well able to give him a good start in life; just as able as he himself was to give Olive a
good start in housekeeping when the time came.

"Now, what in the name of common sense," ejaculated Captain Asher, "did I think of that for?
What has he to do with Olive, or Olive with him?" And then he said to himself, thinking of
the young man in the bosom of his family and without reference to anybody outside of it: "Yes,
his father must be pretty well off. He did a good deal more trading than ever I did. But after
all, I don't believe he invested his money any better than I did mine, and it is just as like
as not if we were to show our hands, that Olive would get as much as Dick's son. There it is
again. I can't keep my mind off the thing." And as he spoke he knocked the ashes out of his
pipe, and began to stride up and down the garden walk; and as he did so he began to reproach
himself.

What right had he to think of his niece in that way? It was not doing the fair thing by her
father, and perhaps by her, for that matter. For all he knew she might be engaged to somebody
out West or down East, or in some other part of the world where she had lived. But this idea
made very little impression on him. Knowing Olive as he did, he did not believe that she was
engaged to anybody anywhere; he did not want to think that she was the kind of girl who would
conceal her engagement from him, or who could do it, for that matter. But, everything considered,
he was very glad Olive had gone to Broadstone, for, whatever the young fellow might happen
to be, he wanted to know all about him before Olive met him.

Captain Asher firmly believed that there was nothing of the matchmaker in his disposition,
but notwithstanding this estimate of himself, he went on thinking of Olive and the son of his
old shipmate, both separately and together. He had never said to anybody, nor intimated to
anybody, that he was going to give any of his moderate fortune to his niece. In fact, before
this visit to him he had not thought much about it, nor did it enter his mind that Olive's
Boston aunt, her mother's sister, had favored this visit of the girl to her toll-gate uncle,
hoping that he might think about it.

In consequence of these cogitations, and in spite of the fact that he despised matchmaking,
Captain Asher was greatly interested in the coming advent of his shipmate's son.

When the same phaeton, the same horse, and the same boy that had brought Maria Port to the
tollhouse, conveyed there a young man with two valises, one rather large, Captain Asher did
not hurry from the house to meet his visitor. He had seen him coming, and had preferred to
stand in his doorway and take a preliminary observation of him. Having taken this, Captain
Asher was obliged to confess to himself that he was disappointed.

The first cause of his disappointment was the fact that the young man wore a colored shirt
and no vest, and a yellow leather belt. Now, Captain Asher for the greater part of his active
life had worn colored shirts, sometimes very dark ones, with no vests, but he had not supposed
that a young man coming to a house where there was a young lady accustomed to the best society
would present himself in such attire. The captain instantly remembered that his visitor could
not know that there was a young lady at the house, but this did not satisfy him. Such attire
was not respectful, even to him. The leather belt especially offended him. The captain was
not aware of the negligé summer fashions for men which then prevailed.

The next thing that disappointed him was that young Lancaster, seen across the garden, did
not appear to be the strapping young fellow he had expected to see. He was moderately tall,
and moderately broad, and handled his valise with apparent ease, but he did not look as though
he were his father's son. Dick Lancaster had married the daughter of a captain when he was
only a second mate, and that piece of good fortune had been generally attributed to his good looks.

But these observations and reflections occupied a very short time, and Captain Asher walked
quickly to meet his visitor. As he stepped out of the garden-gate he was disappointed again.
The young man's trousers were turned up above his shoes. The weather was not wet, there was
no mud, and if Dick Lancaster's son had not bought a pair of ready-made trousers that were
too long for him, why should he turn them up in that ridiculous way?

In spite of these first impressions, the captain gave his old friend's son a hearty welcome,
and took him into the house. After dinner he subjected the young man to a crucial test; he
asked him if he smoked. If the visitor had answered in the negative he would have dropped still
further in the captain's estimation. It was not that the captain had any theories in regard
to the sanitary advantages or disadvantages of tobacco; he simply remembered that nearly all
the rascals with whom he had been acquainted had been eager to declare that they never used
tobacco in any form, and that nearly all the good fellows he had known enjoyed their pipes.
In fact, he could not see how good fellowship could be maintained without good talk and good
tobacco, so he waited with an anxious interest for his guest's answer.

"Oh, yes," said he, "I am fond of a smoke, especially in company," and so, having risen several
inches in the good opinion of his host, he followed him to the little arbor in the garden.

"Now, then," said Captain Asher, when his pipe was alight, "you have told me a great deal about
your father, now tell me something about yourself. I do not even know what your business is."

"I am Assistant Professor of Theoretical Mathematics in Sutton College," answered the young man.

Captain Asher put down his pipe and gazed at his visitor across the arbor. This answer was
so different from anything he had expected that for the moment he could not express his astonishment,
and was obliged to content himself with asking where Sutton College was.

"It is what they call a fresh-water college," replied the young man, "and I do not wonder that
you do not know where it is. It is near our town. I graduated there and received my present
appointment about three years ago. I was then twenty-seven."

"Your father was good at mathematics," said Captain Asher. "He was a great hand at calculations,
but he went in for practise, as I did, and not for theories. I suppose there are other professors
who teach regular working mathematics."

"Oh, yes," replied the young man, with a smile, "there is the Professor of Applied Mathematics,
but of course the thorough student wants to understand the theories on which his practise is
to be based."

"I do not see why he should," replied the other. "If a good ship is launched for me, I don't
care anything about the stocks she slides off of."

"Perhaps not," said Lancaster, "but somebody has to think about them."

In the afternoon Captain Asher showed his visitor his little farm, and took him out fishing.
During these recreations he refrained, as far as possible, from asking questions, for he did
not wish the young man to suppose that for any reason he had been sent there to undergo an
examination. But in the evening he could not help talking about the college, not in reference
to the work and life of the students, a subject that did not interest him, but in regard to
the work and the prospects of the faculty.

"What does your president teach?" he asked. "I believe all presidents have charge of some branch
or other."

"Oh, yes," said Lancaster, "our president is Professor of Mental and Moral Philosophy."

"I thought it would be something of the kind," said the captain to himself. "Even the head
Professor of Mathematical Theories would never get to the top of the heap. He is not useful
enough for that."

After he had gone to bed that night Captain Asher found himself laughing about the events of
the day. He could not help it when he remembered how his mind had been almost constantly occupied
with a consideration of his old shipmate's son with reference to his brother's daughter. And
when he remembered that neither of these two young people had ever seen or heard of the other,
it is not surprising that he laughed a little.

"It's none of my business, anyway," thought the captain, "and I might as well stop bothering
my head about it. I suppose I might as well tell him about Olive, for it is nothing I need
keep secret. But first I'll see how long he is going to stay. It's none of his business, anyway,
whether I have a niece staying with me or not."

CHAPTER V

Olive pays Toll.

It is needless to say that Olive was charmed with Broadstone; with its mistress; with the two
little girls; with the woods; the river; the mountains; and even the sky; which seemed different
from that same sky when viewed from the tollhouse. She was charmed also with the rest of the
household, which was different from anything of that kind that she had known, being composed
entirely, with the exception of some servants, of women and little girls. Olive, accustomed
all her life to men, men, men, grew rapturous over this Amazonian paradise.

"Don't be too enthusiastic," said Mrs. Easterfield; "for a while you may like fresh butter
without salt, but the longing for the condiment will be sure to come."

There was Mrs. Blynn, the widow of a clergyman, with dark-brown eyes and white hair, who was
always in a good humor, who acted as the general manager of the household, and also as particular
friend to any one in the house who needed her services in that way. Then there was Miss Raleigh,
who was supposed to be Mrs. Easterfield's secretary. She was a slender spinster of forty or
more, with sad eyes and very fine teeth. She had dyspeptic proclivities, and never differed
with anybody except in regard to her own diet. She seldom wrote for Mrs. Easterfield, for that
lady did not like her handwriting, and she did not understand the use of the typewriter; nor
did she read to the lady of the house, for Mrs. Easterfield could not endure to have anybody
read to her. But in all the other duties of a secretary she made herself very useful. She saw
that the books, which every morning were found lying about the house, were put in their proper
places on the shelves, and, if necessary, she dusted them; if she saw a book turned upside
down she immediately set it up properly. She was also expected to exert a certain supervision
over the books the little girls were allowed to look at. She was an excellent listener and
an appropriate smiler; Mrs. Easterfield frequently said that she never knew Miss Raleigh to
smile in the wrong place. She took a regular walk every day, eight times up and down the whole
length of the lawn.

Mrs. Easterfield gave herself almost entirely to the entertainment of her guest. They roamed
over the grounds, they found the finest points of view, at which Olive was expert, being a
fine climber, and they tramped for long distances along the edge of the woods, where together
they killed a snake. Mrs. Easterfield also allowed Olive the great privilege of helping her
work in her garden of nature. This was a wide bed which was almost entirely shaded by two large
trees. The peculiarity about this bed was that its mistress carefully pulled up all the flowering
plants and cultivated the weeds.

"You see," said she to Olive, "I planted here a lot of flower-seeds which I thought would thrive
in the shade, but they did not, and after a while I found that they were all spindling and
puny-looking, while the weeds were growing as if they were out in the open sunshine, so I have
determined to acknowledge the principle of the survival of the fittest, and whenever anything
that looks like a flower shows itself I jerk it out. I also thin out all but the best weeds.
I hoe and rake the others, and water them if necessary. Look at that splendid Jamestown weed--here
they call it jimson weed--did you ever see anything finer than that with its great white blossoms
and dark-green leaves? I expect it to be twice as large before the summer is over. And all
these others. See how graceful they are, and what delicate flowers some of them have!"

"I wonder," said Olive, "if I should have had the strength of mind to pull up my flowers and
leave my weeds."

"The more you think about it," said Mrs. Easterfield, "the more you like weeds. They have such
fine physiques, and they don't ask anybody to do anything for them. They are independent, like
self-made men, and come up of themselves. They laugh at disadvantages, and even bricks and
flagstones will not keep them down."

"But, after all," said Olive, "give me the flowers that can not take care of themselves." And
she turned toward a bed of carnations, bright under the morning sun.

"Do you suppose, little girl," said Mrs. Easterfield, following her, "that I do not like flowers
because I do like weeds? Everything in its place; weeds are for the shady spots, but I keep
my flowers out of such places. This flower, for instance," touching Olive on the cheek. "And
now let us go into the house and see what pleasant thing we can find to do there."

In the afternoon the two ladies went out rowing on the river, and Mrs. Easterfield was astonished
at Olive's proficiency with the oar. She had thought herself a good oarswoman, but she was
nothing to Olive. She good-naturedly acknowledged her inferiority, however. How could she expect
to compete with a navy girl? she said.

"Are you fond of swimming?" asked Olive, as she looked down into the bright, clear water.

"Oh, very," said Mrs. Easterfield. "But I am not allowed to swim in this river. It is considered
dangerous."

Olive looked up in surprise. It seemed odd that there should be anything that this bright,
free woman was not allowed to do, or that there should be anybody who would not allow it.

Then followed some rainy days, and the first clear day Mrs. Easterfield told Olive that she
would take her a drive in the afternoon.

"I shall drive you myself with my own horses," she said, "but you need not be afraid, for I
can drive a great deal better than I can row. We must lose no time in seizing all the advantages
of this Amazonian life, for to-morrow some of our guests will arrive, the Foxes and Mr. Claude
Locker."

"Who are the Foxes?" asked Olive.

"They are the pleasantest visitors that any one could have," was the answer. "They always like
everything. They never complain of being cold, nor talk about the weather being hot. They are
interested in all games, and they like all possible kinds of food that one can give them to
eat. They are always ready to go to bed when they think they ought to, and sit up just as long
as they are wanted. Of course, they have their own ideas about things, but they don't dispute.
They take care of themselves all the morning, and are ready for anything you want to do in
the afternoon or evening. They have two children at home, but they never talk about them unless
they are particularly asked to do so. They know a great many people, and you can tell by the
way they speak of them that they won't talk scandal about you. In fact, they are model guests,
and they ought to open a school to teach the art of visiting."

"And what about Mr. Claude Locker?"

Mrs. Easterfield laughed. "Oh, he is different," she said; "he is so different from the Poxes
that words would not describe it. But you won't be long in becoming acquainted with him."

The road over which the two ladies drove that afternoon was a beautiful one, sometimes running
close to the river under great sycamores, then making a turn into the woods and among the rocks.
At last they came to a cross-road, which led away from the river, and here Mrs. Easterfield
stopped her horses.

"Now, Olive," said she, for she was now very familiar with her guest, "I will leave the return
route to you. Shall we go back by the river road--and the scenery will be very different when
going in the other direction--or shall we drive over to Glenford, and go home by the turnpike?
That is a little farther, but the road is a great deal better?"

"Oh, let us go that way," cried Olive. "We will go through Uncle John's toll-gate, and you
must let me pay the toll. It will be such fun to pay toll to Uncle John, or old Jane."

"Very well," said Mrs. Easterfield, "we will go that way."

When the horses had passed through Glenford and had turned their heads homeward, they clattered
along at a fine rate over the smooth turnpike, and Olive was in as high spirits as they were.

"Whoever comes out to take toll," said she, "I intend to be treated as an ordinary traveler
and nothing else. I have often taken toll, but I never paid it in my life. And they must take
it--no gratis traveling for me. But I hope you won't mind stopping long enough for me to say
a few words after I have transacted the regular business."

"Oh, no," said Mrs. Easterfield, "you can chat as much as you like. We have plenty of time."

Olive held in her hand a quarter of a dollar; she was determined they should make change for
her, and that everything should be done properly.

Dick Lancaster sat in the garden arbor, reading. He was becoming a little tired of this visit
to his father's old friend. He liked Captain Asher and appreciated his hospitality, but there
was nothing very interesting for him to do in this place, and he had thought that it might
be a very good thing if the several days for which he had been invited should terminate on
the morrow. There were some very attractive plans ahead of him, and he felt that he had now
done his full duty by his father and his father's old friend.

Captain Asher was engaged with some matters about his little farm, and Lancaster had asked
as a favor that he might be allowed to tend the toll-gate during his absence. It would be something
to do, and, moreover, something out of the way.

When he perceived the approach of Mrs. Easterfield's carriage Lancaster walked down to the
tollhouse, and stopped for a minute to glance over the rates of toll which were pasted up inside
the door as well as out.

The carriage stopped, and when a young man stepped out from the tollhouse Olive gave a sudden
start, and the words with which she had intended to greet her uncle or old Jane instantly melted
away.

"Don't push me out of the carriage," said Mrs. Easterfield, good-naturedly, and she, too, looked
at the young man.

"For two horses and a vehicle," said Dick Lancaster, "ten cents, if you please."

Olive made no answer, but handed him the quarter with which he retired to make change. Mrs.
Easterfield opened her mouth to speak, but Olive put her finger on her lips and shook her head;
the situation astonished her, but she did not wish to ask that stranger to explain it.

Lancaster came out and dropped fifteen cents into Olive's hand. He could not help regarding
with interest the occupants of the carriage, and Mrs. Easterfield looked hard at him. Suddenly
Olive turned in her seat; she looked at the house, she looked at the garden, she looked at
the little piazza by the side of the tollhouse. Yes, it was really the same place. For an instant
she thought she might have been mistaken, but there was her window with the Virginia creeper
under the sill where she had trained it herself. Then she made a motion to her companion, who
immediately drove on.

"What does this mean?" exclaimed Mrs. Easterfield. "Who is that young man? Why didn't you give
me a chance to ask after the captain, even if you did not care to do so?"

"I never saw him before!" cried Olive. "I never heard of him. I don't understand anything about
it. The whole thing shocked me, and I wanted to get on."

"I don't think it a very serious matter," said Mrs. Easterfield. "Some passer-by might have
relieved your uncle for a time."

"Not at all, not at all," replied Olive. "Uncle John would never give the toll-gate into the
charge of a passer-by, especially as old Jane was there. I know she was there, for the basement
door was open, and she never goes away and leaves it so. That man is somebody who is staying
there. I saw an open book on the arbor bench. Nobody reads in that arbor but me."

"And that young man apparently," said Mrs. Easterfield. "I agree with you that it is surprising."

For some minutes Olive did not speak. "I am afraid," she said, presently, "that my uncle is
not acting quite frankly with me. I noticed how willing he was that I should go to your house."

"Perhaps he expected this person and wanted to get you out of the way," laughed Mrs. Easterfield.

"Well, my dear, I do not believe your uncle is such a schemer. He does not look like it. Take
my word for it, it will all be as simple as a-b-c when it is explained to you."

But Olive could not readily take this view of the case, and the drive home was not nearly so
pleasant as it would have been if her uncle or old Jane had taken her quarter and given her
fifteen cents in change.

That night, soon after the family at Broadstone had retired to their rooms, Olive knocked at
the door of Mrs. Easterfield's chamber.

"Do you know," she exclaimed, when she had been told to enter, "that a horrible idea has come
into my head? Uncle John may have been taken sick, and that man looked just like a doctor.
Old Jane was busy with uncle, and as the doctor had to wait, he took the toll. Oh, I wish we
had asked! It was cruel in me not to!"

"Now, that is all nonsense," said Mrs. Easterfield. "If anything serious is the matter with
your uncle he most surely would have let you know, and, besides, both the doctors in Glenford
are elderly men. I do not believe there is the slightest reason for your anxiety. But to make
you feel perfectly satisfied, I will send a man to Glenford early in the morning. I want to
send there anyway."

"But I would not like my uncle to think that I was trying to find out anything he did not care
to tell me," said Olive.

"Oh, don't trouble yourself about that," answered Mrs. Easterfield. "I will instruct the man.
He need not ask any questions at the toll-gate. But when he gets to Glenford he can find out
everything about that young man without asking any questions. He is a very discreet person.
And I am also a discreet person," she added, "and you shall have no connection with my messenger's
errand."

After breakfast the next morning Mrs. Easterfield took Olive aside. "My man has returned,"
she said; "he tells me that Captain Asher took the toll, and was smoking his pipe in perfect
health. He also saw the young man, and his natural curiosity prompted him to ask about him
in the town. He heard that he is the son of one of the captain's old shipmates who is making
him a visit. Now I hope this satisfies you."

"Satisfies me!" exclaimed Olive. "I should have been a great deal better satisfied if I had
heard he was sick, provided it was nothing dangerous. I think my uncle is treating me shamefully.
It is not that I care a snap about his visitor, one way or another, but it is his want of confidence
in me that hurts me. Could he have supposed I should have wanted to stay with him if I had
known a young man was coming?"

"Well, my dear," said Mrs. Easterfield, "I can not send anybody to find out what he supposed.
But I am as certain as I can be certain of anything that there is nothing at all in this bugbear
you have conjured up. No doubt the young man dropped in quite accidentally, and it was his
bad luck that prevented him from dropping in before you left."

Olive shook her head. "My uncle knew all about it. His manner showed it. He has treated me
very badly."

CHAPTER VI

Mr. Claude Locker.

The Foxes arrived at Broadstone at the exact hour of the morning at which they had been expected.
They always did this; even trains which were sometimes delayed when other visitors came were
always on time when they carried the Foxes. They were both perfectly well and happy, as they
always were.

As rapidly as it was possible for human beings to do so they absorbed the extraordinary advantages
of the house and it surroundings, and they said the right things in such a common-sense fashion
that their hostess was proud that she owned such a place, and happy that she had invited them
to see it.

In their hearts they liked everything about the place except Olive, and they wondered how they
were going to get along with such a glum young person, but they did not talk about her to Mrs.
Easterfield; there was too much else.

Mr. Claude Locker was expected on the train by which the Foxes had come, but he did not arrive;
and this made it necessary to send again for him in the afternoon.

Mrs. Easterfield tried very hard to cheer up Olive, and to make her entertain the Foxes in
her usual lively way, but this was of no use; the young person was not in a good humor, and
retired for an afternoon nap. But as this was an indulgence she very seldom allowed herself,
it was not likely that she napped.

Mr. Fox spoke to Mrs. Fox about her. "A queer girl," he said; "what do you suppose is the matter
with her?"

"The symptoms are those of green apples," replied Mrs. Fox, "and probably she will be better
to-morrow."

The carriage came back without Mr. Locker. But just as the soup-plates were being removed from
the dinner-table he arrived in a hired vehicle, and appeared at the dining-room door with his
hat in one hand, and a package in the other. He begged Mrs. Easterfield not to rise.

"I will slip up to my room," said he, "if you have one for me, and when I come down I will
greet you and be introduced."

With this he turned and left the room, but was back in a moment. "It was a woman," he said,
"who was at the bottom of it. It is always a woman, you know, and I am sure you will excuse
me now that you know this. And you must let me begin wherever you may be in the dinner."

"I have heard of Mr. Locker," said Mr. Fox, "but I never met him before. He must be very odd."

"He admits that himself," said Mrs. Easterfield, "but he asserts that he spends a great deal
of his time getting even with people."

In a reasonable time Mr. Locker appeared and congratulated himself upon having struck the roast.

"As a matter of fact," he said, "we will now all begin dinner together. What has gone before
was nothing but overture. If I can help it I never get in until the beginning of the play."

He bowed parenthetically as Mrs. Easterfield introduced him to the company; and, as she looked
at him, Olive forgot for a moment her uncle and his visitor.

"Don't send for soup, I beg of you," said Mr. Locker, as he took his seat. "I regard it as
a rare privilege to begin with the inside cut of beef."

Mr. Locker was not allowed to do all the talking; his hostess would not permit that; but under
the circumstances he was allowed to explain his lateness.

"You know I have been spending a week with the Bartons," he said, "and last night I came over
from their house to the station in a carriage. There is a connecting train, but I should have
had to take it very early in the evening, so I saved time by hiring a carriage."

"Saved time?" exclaimed Mrs. Easterfield.

"I saved all the time from dinner until the Bartons went to bed, which would have been lost
if I had taken the train. Besides, I like to travel in carriages. One is never too late for
a carriage; it is always bound to wait for you."

In the recesses of his mind Mr. Fox now said to himself, "This is a fool." And Mrs. Fox, in
the recesses of her mind, remarked, "I am quite sure that Mr. Fox will look upon this young
man as a fool."

"I spent what was left of the night at a tavern near the station," continued Mr. Locker, "where
I would have had to stay all night if I had not taken the carriage. And I should have been
in plenty of time for the morning train if I had not taken a walk before breakfast. Apparently
that is a part of the world where it takes a good deal longer to go back to a place than it
does to get away from it."

"But where did the woman come in?" asked Mrs. Easterfield.

"Oh, she came in with some tea and sandwiches in the middle of the afternoon," said Mr. Locker.
"I was waiting in the parlor of the tavern. She was fairly young, and as I ate she stood and
talked. She talked about Horace Walpole." At this even Olive smiled. "It was odd, wasn't it?"
continued Mr. Locker, glancing from one to the other. "But that is what she did. She had been
reading about him in an old book. She asked me if I knew anything about him, and I told her
a great deal. It was so very interesting to tell her, and she was so interested, that when
the train arrived I was too much occupied to think that it might start again immediately, but
it did that very thing, and so I was left. However, the Walpole young woman told me there was
a freight-train along in about an hour, and so we continued our conversation. When this train
came I asked the engineer how many cigars he would take to let me ride in the cab. He said
half a dozen, but as I only had five, I promised to send him the other by mail. However, as
I smoked two of his five, I suppose I ought to send him three."

"This young man," said Mr. Fox to himself, "is trying to appear more of a fool than he really is."

"I have no doubt," said Mrs. Fox to herself, "that Mr. Fox is of the opinion that this young
man is making an effort to appear foolish."

That evening was a dull one. Mrs. Easterfield did her best, Claude Locker did his best, and
Mr. and Mrs. Fox did their best to make things lively, but their success was poor. Miss Raleigh,
the secretary, sat ready to give an approving smile to any liveliness which might arise, and
Mrs. Blynn, with the dark eyes and soft white hair, sat sewing and waiting; never before had
it been necessary for her to wait for liveliness in Mrs. Easterfield's house. A mild rain somewhat
assisted the dullness, for everybody was obliged to stay indoors.

Early the next morning Olive Asher went down-stairs, and stood in the open doorway looking
out upon the landscape, glowing in the sunshine and brighter and more odorous from the recent
rain. Some time during the night this young woman had made up her mind to give no further thought
to her uncle who kept the toll-gate. There was no earthly reason why he, or anything he wanted
to do, or did not want to do, or did, should trouble and annoy her. A few months before she
had scarcely known him, not having seen him since she was a girl; and, in fact, he was no more
to her now than he was before she went to his house. If he chose to offer her any explanation
of his strange conduct, that would be very well; if he did not choose, that would also be very
well. The whole affair was of no consequence; she would drop it entirely from her mind.

Olive's bounding spirits now rose very high, and when Claude Locker came in with his shoes
soaked from a tramp in the wet grass she greeted him in such a way that he could scarcely believe
she was the grumpy girl of the day before. As they went into breakfast Mrs. Fox remarked to
her husband in a low voice that Miss Asher seemed to have recovered entirely from her indisposition.

In the course of the morning Mr. Locker found an opportunity to speak in private with Mrs.
Easterfield. "I am in great trouble," he said; "I want to marry Miss Asher."

"You show unusual promptness," said Mrs. Easterfield.

"Not at all," replied Locker. "This sort of thing is not unusual with me. My mind is a highly
sensitive plate, and receives impressions almost instantaneously. If it were a large mind these
impressions might be placed side by side, and each one would perhaps become indelible. But
it is small, and each impression claps itself down on the one before. This last one, however,
is the strongest of them all, and obliterates everything that went before."

"It strikes me," said Mrs. Easterfield, "that if you were to pay more attention to your poems
and less to young ladies it would be better."

"Hardly," said Mr. Locker; "for it would be worse for the poems."

The general appearance of Mr. Locker gave no reason to suppose that he would be warranted in
assuming a favorable issue from any of the impressions to which his mind was so susceptible.
He was small, rather awkwardly set up, his head was large, and the features of his face seemed
to have no relation to each other. His nose was somewhat stubby, and had nothing to do with
his mouth or eyes. One of his eyebrows was drawn down as if in days gone by he had been in
the habit of wearing a single glass. The other brow was raised over a clear and wide-open light-blue
eye. His mouth was large, and attended strictly to its own business. It transmitted his odd
ideas to other people, but it never laughed at them. His chin was round and prominent, suggesting
that it might have been borrowed from somebody else. His cheeks were a little heavy, and gave
no assistance in the expression of his ideas.

His profession was that of a poet. He called himself a practical poet, because he made a regular
business of it, turning his poetic inspirations into salable verse with the facility and success,
as he himself expressed it, of a man who makes boxes out of wood. Moreover, he sold these poems
as readily as any carpenter sold his boxes. Like himself, Claude Locker's poems were always
short, always in request, and sometimes not easy to understand.

The poem he wrote that night was a word-picture of the rising moon entangled in a sheaf of
corn upon a hilltop, with a long-eared rabbit sitting near by as if astonished at the conflagration.

"A very interesting girl, that Miss Asher," said Mr. Fox to his wife that evening. "I do not
know when I have laughed so much."

"I thought you were finding her interesting," said Mrs. Fox. "To me it was like watching a
game of roulette at Monte Carlo. It was intensely interesting, but I could not imagine it as
having anything to do with me."

"No, my dear," said Mr. Fox, "it could have nothing to do with you."

After Mrs. Easterfield retired she sat for a long time, thinking of Olive. That young person
and Mr. Locker had been boating that afternoon, and Olive had had the oars. Mr. Locker had
told with great effect how she had pulled to get out of the smooth water, and how she had dashed
over the rapids and between the rocks in such a way as to make his heart stand still.

"I should like to go rowing with her every day," he had remarked confidentially. "Each time
I started I should make a new will."

"Why a new one?" Mrs. Easterfield had asked.

"Each time I should take something more from my relatives to give to her," had been the answer.

As she sat and thought, Mrs. Easterfield began to be a little frightened. She was a brave woman,
but it is the truly brave who know when they should be frightened, and she felt her responsibility,
not on account of the niece of the toll-gate keeper, but on account of the daughter of Lieutenant
Asher, whom she had once known so well. The thing which frightened her was the possibility
that before anybody would be likely to think of such a thing Olive might marry Claude Locker.
He was always ready to do anything he wanted to do at any time; and for all Mrs. Easterfield
knew, the girl might be of the same sort.

But Mrs. Easterfield rose to the occasion. She looked upon Olive as a wild young colt who had
broken out of her paddock, but she remembered that she herself had a record for speed. "If
there is to be any running I shall get ahead of her," she said to herself, "and I will turn
her back. I think I can trust myself for that."

Olive slept the sound sleep of the young, but for all that she had a dream. She dreamed of
a kind, good, thoughtful, and even affectionate, middle-aged man; a man who looked as though
he might have been her father, and whom she was beginning to look upon as a father, notwithstanding
the fact that she had a real father dressed in a uniform and on a far-away ship. She dreamed
ever so many things about this newer, although elder, father, and her dream made her very happy.

But in the morning when she woke her dream had entirely passed from her mind, and she felt
just as much like a colt as when she had gone to bed.

CHAPTER VII

The Captain and his Guest go Fishing and come Home Happy.

When Dick Lancaster told Captain Asher he had taken toll from two ladies in a phaeton he was
quite eloquent in his description of said ladies. He declared with an impressiveness which
the captain had not noticed in him before that he did not know when he had seen such handsome
ladies. The younger one, who paid the toll, was absolutely charming. She seemed a little bit
startled, but he supposed that was because she saw a strange face at the toll-gate. Dick wanted
very much to know who these ladies were. He had not supposed that he would find such stylish
people, and such a handsome turnout in this part of the country.

"Oh, ho," said Captain Asher, "do you suppose we are all farmers and toll-gate keepers? If
you do, you are very much mistaken, although I must admit that the stylish people, as you call
them, are scattered about very thinly. I expect that carriage was from Broadstone over on the
mountain. Was the team dapple gray, pony built?"

"Yes," said Lancaster.

"Then it was Mrs. Easterfield driving some of her company. I have seen her with that team.
And by George," he exclaimed, "I bet my head the other one was Olive! Of course it was. And
she paid toll! Well, well, if that isn't a good one! Olive paying toll! I wish I had been here
to take it! That truly would have been a lark!"

Dick Lancaster did not echo this wish of his host. He was very glad, indeed, that the captain
had not been at the toll-gate when the ladies passed through. Captain Asher was still laughing.

"Olive must have been amazed," he said. "It was queer enough for her to go through my gate
and pay toll, but to pay it to an Assistant Professor of Theoretical Mathematics was a good
deal queerer. I can't imagine what she thought about it."

"She did not know I am that!" exclaimed Dick Lancaster. "There is nothing of the professor
in my outward appearance--at least, I hope not."

"No, I don't think there is," replied the captain. "But she must have been amazed, all the
same. I wish I had been here, or old Jane, anyway. But, of course, when a stranger showed himself
she would not have said anything."

"But who is Olive?" asked Lancaster.

"She's my niece," said the captain. "I don't think I have mentioned her to you. She is on a
visit to me, but just now she is staying at Broadstone. I suppose she will be there about a
week longer."

"It's odd he has not mentioned her to me," thought Lancaster, and then, as the captain went
to ask old Jane if she had seen Olive pass, the young man retired to the arbor with a book
which he did not read.

His desire to inform his host that it would be necessary to take leave of him on the morrow
had very much abated. It would be very pleasant, he thought, to be a visitor in a family of
which that girl was a member. But if she were not to return for a week, how could he expect
to stay with the captain so long? There would be no possible excuse for such a thing. Then
he thought it would be very pleasant to be in a country of which that young woman was one of
the inhabitants. Anyway, he hoped the captain would invite him to make a longer stay. The great
blue eyes with which the young lady had regarded him as she paid the toll would not fade out
of his mind.

"She must have wondered who it was that took the toll," said old Jane. "And there wasn't no
need of it, anyway. I could have took it as I always have took it when you was not here, and
before either of them came."

"Either of them" struck the captain's ear strangely. Here was this old woman coupling these
two young people in her mind!

The next morning Captain Asher sat on his little piazza, smoking his pipe and thinking about
Olive driving through the gate and paying toll to a stranger. But he now considered the incident
from a different point of view. Of course, Olive had been surprised when she had seen the young
man, but she might also have wondered how he happened to be there and she not know of it. If
he were staying long enough to be entrusted with toll-taking it might--in fact, the captain
thought it probably would--appear very strange to her that she should not know of it. So now
he asked himself if it would not be a good thing if he were to write her a little note in which
he should mention Mr. Lancaster and his visit. In fact, he thought the best thing he could
do would be to write her a playful sort of a note, and tell her that she should feel honored
by having her toll taken up by a college professor. But he did not immediately write the note.
The more he thought about it, the more he wished he had been at the toll-gate when Mrs. Easterfield's
phaeton passed by.

Captain Asher did not write his note at all. He did not know what to say; he did not want to
make too much of the incident, for it was really a trifling matter, only worthy of being mentioned
in case he had something more important to write about. But he had nothing more important;
there was no reason why he should write to Olive during her short stay with Mrs. Easterfield.
Besides, she would soon be back, and then he could talk to her; that would be much better.
Now, two strong desires began to possess him; one was for Olive to come home; and the other
for Dick Lancaster to go away. There had been moments when he had had a shadowy notion of bringing
the two together, but this idea had vanished. His mind was now occupied very much with thoughts
of his beautiful niece and very little with the young man in the colored shirt and turned-up
trousers who was staying with him.

Dick Lancaster, in his arbor, was also thinking a great deal about Olive, and very little about
that stalwart sailor, her uncle. If he had merely seen the young woman, and had never heard
anything about her, her face would have impressed him, but the knowledge that she was an inmate
of the house in which he was staying could not fail to affect him very much. He was puzzling
his mind about the girl who had given him a quarter of a dollar, and to whom he had handed
fifteen cents in change. He wondered how such a girl happened to be living at such a place.
He wondered if there were any possibility of his staying there, or in the neighborhood, until
she should come back; he wondered if there were any way by which he could see her again. He
might have wondered a good many other things if Captain Asher had not approached the arbor.
The captain having been aroused from his mental contemplation of Olive by a man in a wagon,
had glanced over at the arbor and had suddenly been struck with the conviction that that young
man looked bored, and that, as his host, he was not doing the right thing by him.

"Dick," said the captain, "let's go fishing. It's not late yet, and I'll put my mare to the
buggy, and we can drive to the river. We will take something to eat with us, and make a day of it."

Lancaster hesitated a moment; he had been thinking that the time had come when he should say
something about his departure, but this invitation settled the matter for that day; and in
half an hour the two had started away, leaving the toll-gate in charge of old Jane, who was
a veteran in the business, having lived at the toll-gate years before the captain.

As they drove along the smooth turnpike Lancaster remembered with great interest that this
road led to the gap in the mountains; that the captain had told him Broadstone was not very
far from the gap; and that the river was not very far from Broadstone; and his face glowed
with interest in the expedition.

But when, after a few miles, they turned into a plain country road which, as the captain informed
him, led in a southeasterly direction, to a point on the river where black bass were to be
caught and where a boat could be hired, the corners of Dick Lancaster's mouth began to droop.
Of necessity that road must reach the river miles to the south of Broadstone.

It was a very good day for fishing, and the captain was pleased to see that the son of his
old shipmate was a very fair angler. Toward the close of the afternoon, with the conviction
that they had had a good time and that their little expedition had been a success, the two
fishermen set out for home with a basket of bass: some of them quite a respectable size; stowed
away under the seat of the buggy. When they reached the turnpike the old mare, knowing well
in which direction her supper lay, turned briskly to the left, and set out upon a good trot.
But this did not last very long. To her great surprise she was suddenly pulled up short; a
carriage with two horses which had been approaching had also stopped.

On the back seat of this carriage sat Mrs. Easterfield; on one side of her was a little girl,
and on the other side was another little girl, each with her feet stuck out straight in front
of her.

"Oh, Captain Asher," exclaimed the lady, with a most enchanting smile, "I am so glad to meet
you. I was obliged to go to Glenford to take one of my little girls to the dentist, and I inquired
for you each time I passed your gate."

The captain was very glad he had been so fortunate as to meet her, and as her eyes were now
fixed upon his companion, he felt it incumbent upon him to introduce Mr. Richard Lancaster,
the son of an old shipmate.

"But not a sailor, I imagine," said Mrs. Easterfield.

"Oh, no," said the captain, "Mr. Lancaster is Assistant Professor of Theoretical Mathematics
in Sutton College."

Dick could not imagine why the captain said all this, and he flushed a little.

"Sutton College?" said Mrs. Easterfield. "Then, of course, you know Professor Brent."

"Oh, yes," said Lancaster. "He is our president."

"I never met him," said she, "but he was a classmate of my husband, and I have often heard
him speak of him. And now for my errand, Captain Asher. Isn't it about time you should be wanting
to see your niece?"

The captain's heart sank. Did she intend to send Olive home?

"I always want to see her," he said, but without enthusiasm.

"But don't you think it would be nice," said the lady, "if you were to come to lunch with us
to-morrow? It was to ask you this that I inquired for you at the toll-gate."

Now, this was another thing altogether, and the captain's earnest acceptance would have been
more coherent if it had not been for the impatience of his mare.

"And I want you to bring your friend with you," continued Mrs. Easterfield. "The invitation
is for you both, of course."

Dick's face said that this would be heavenly, but his mouth was more prudent.

"It will be strictly informal," continued Mrs. Easterfield. "Only myself and family, three
guests, and Olive. We shall sit down at one. Good-by."

Mrs. Easterfield was entirely truthful when she said she was glad to meet the captain. Her
anxiety about Olive and Claude Locker was somewhat on the increase. She was very well aware
that the most dangerous thing for one young woman is one young man; and in thinking over this
truism she had been impressed with the conviction that it was not well for Mr. Claude Locker
to be the one man at Broadstone. Then, in thinking of possible young men, her mind naturally
turned to the young man who was visiting Olive's uncle. She did not know anything about him,
but he was a young man, and if he proved to be worth something, he could be asked to come again.
So it was really to Dick Lancaster, and not to Captain Asher, that the luncheon invitation
had been given.

The appointment with the Glenford dentist had made it necessary for her to leave home that
afternoon. To be sure, she had sent the Foxes with Olive and Claude Locker upon the drive through
the gap, and, under ordinary circumstances, and with ordinary people, there would have been
no reason for her to trouble herself about them, but neither the circumstances nor the people
were ordinary, and she now felt anxious to get home and find out what Claude Locker and Olive
had done with Mrs. and Mr. Fox.

CHAPTER VIII

Captain Asher is not in a Good Humor.

The next morning was very bright for Captain Asher; he was going to see Olive, and he did not
know before how much he wished to see her.

When Dick Lancaster came from the house to take his seat in the buggy the sight of the handsome
suit of dark-blue serge, white shirt and collar, and patent-leather shoes, with the trousers
hanging properly above them, placed Dick very much higher in the captain's estimation than
the young man with the colored shirt and rolled-up trousers could ever have reached. The captain,
too, was well dressed for the occasion, and Mrs. Easterfield had no reason whatever to be ashamed
of these two gentlemen when she introduced them to her other visitors.

She liked Professor Lancaster. Having lately had a good deal of Claude Locker, she was prepared
to like a quiet and thoroughly self-possessed young man.

Olive was the latest of the little company to appear, and when she came down she caused a genuine,
though gentle sensation. She was most exquisitely dressed, not too much for a luncheon, and
not enough for a dinner. This navy girl had not studied for nothing the art of dressing in
different parts of the world. Her uncle regarded her with open-eyed astonishment.

"Is this my brother's daughter?" he asked himself. "The little girl who poured my coffee in
the morning and went out to take toll?"

Olive greeted her uncle with absolute propriety, and made the acquaintance of Mr. Lancaster
with a formal courtesy to which no objection could be made. Apparently she forgot the existence
of Mr. Locker, and for the greater part of the meal she conversed with Mr. Fox about certain
foreign places with which they were both familiar.

The luncheon was not a success; there was a certain stiffness about it which even Mrs. Easterfield
could not get rid of; and when the gentlemen went out to smoke on the piazza Olive disappeared,
sending a message to Mrs. Easterfield that she had a bad headache and would like to be excused.
Her excuse was a perfectly honest one, for she was apt to have a headache when she was angry;
and she was angry now.

The reason for her indignation was the fact that her uncle's visitor was an extremely presentable
young man. Had it been otherwise, Olive would have given the captain a good scolding, and would
then have taken her revenge by making fun of him and his shipmate's son. But now she felt insulted
that her uncle should conceal from her the fact that he had an entirely proper young gentleman
for a visitor. Could he think she would want to stay at his house to be with that young man?
Was she a girl from whom the existence of such a person was to be kept secret? She was very
angry, indeed, and her headache was genuine.

Captain Asher was also angry. He had intended to take Olive aside and tell her all about Dick
Lancaster, and how he had refrained from saying anything about him until he found out what
sort of a young man he was. If, then, she saw fit to scold him, he was perfectly willing to
submit, and to shake hands all around. But now he would have no chance to speak to her; she
had not treated him properly, even if she had a headache. He admitted to himself that she was
young and probably sensitive, but it was also true that he was sensitive, although old. Therefore,
he was angry.

Mrs. Easterfield was disturbed; she saw there was something wrong between Olive and her uncle,
and she did not like it. She had invited Lancaster with an object, and she did not wish that
other people's grievances should interfere with said object. Olive was grumpy up-stairs and
Claude Locker was in the doleful dumps under a tree, and if these two should grump and dump
together, it might be very bad; consequently, Mrs. Easterfield was more anxious than ever that
there should be at least two young men at Broadstone.

For this reason she asked Lancaster if he were fond of rowing; and when he said he was, she
invited him to join them in a boat party the next day to help her and Olive pull the big family
boat. Mr. Fox did not like rowing, and Mr. Locker did not know how.

On the drive home Captain Asher and Lancaster did not talk much. Even the young man's invitation
to the rowing party did not excite much interest in the captain. These two men were both thinking
of the same girl; one pleasantly, and the other very unpleasantly. Dick was charmed with her,
although he had had very little opportunity of becoming acquainted with her, but he hoped for
better luck the next day.

The captain did not know what to make of her. He felt sure that she was at fault, and that
he was at fault, and he could not see how things could be made straight between them. Only
one thing seemed plain to him, and this was that, with things as they were at present, she
was not likely to come back to his house; and this would not be necessary; he knew very well
that there were other places she could visit; and that early in the fall her father would be home.

Dick Lancaster walked to Broadstone the next morning because Captain Asher was obliged to go
to Glenford on business, but the young man did not in the least mind a six-mile walk on a fine
morning.

All the way to Glenford the captain thought of Olive; sometimes he wished she had never come
to him. Even now, with Lancaster to talk to, he missed her grievously, and if she should not
come back, the case would be a great deal worse than if she had never come at all. But one
thing was certain: If she returned as the young lady with whom he had lunched at Broadstone,
he did not want her. He felt that he had been in the wrong, that she had been in the wrong;
and it seemed as if things in this world were gradually going wrong. He was not in a good humor.

When he stopped his mare in front of a store, Maria Port stepped up to him and said: "How do
you do, captain? What have you done with your young man?"

The captain got down from his buggy, hitched his mare to a post, and then shook hands with
Miss Port.

"Dick Lancaster has gone boating to-day with the Broadstone people," he said.

"What!" exclaimed Miss Port. "Gone there again already? Why it was only yesterday you took
dinner with them."

"Lunch," corrected the captain.

"Well, you may call it what you please," said Maria, "but I call it dinner. And them two's
together without you, that you tried so hard to keep apart!"

"I did not try anything of the kind," said the captain a little sharply; "it just happened so."

"Happened so!" exclaimed Miss Port. "Well, I must say, Captain Asher, that you've a regular
genius for makin' things happen. The minute she goes, he conies. I wish I could make things
happen that way."

The captain took no notice of this remark, and moved toward the door of the store.

"Look here, captain," continued Miss Port, "can't you come and take dinner with us? You haven't
seen Pop for ever so long. It won't be lunch, though, but an honest dinner."

The captain accepted the invitation; for old Mr. Port was one of his ancient friends; and then
he entered the store. Miss Port was on the point of following him; she had something to say
about Olive; but she stopped.

"I'll keep that till dinner-time," she said to herself.

Old Mr. Port had always been a very pleasant man to visit, and he had not changed now, although
he was nearly eighty years old. He had been a successful merchant in the days when Captain
Asher commanded a ship, and there was good reason to believe that a large measure of his success
was due to his constant desire to make himself agreeable to the people with whom he came in
business contact. He was just as agreeable to his friends, of whom Captain Asher was one of
the oldest.

The people of Glenford often puzzled themselves as to what sort of a woman Maria's mother could
have been. None of them had ever seen her, for she had died years before old Mr. Port had come
into that healthful region to reside; but all agreed that her parents must have been a strangely
assorted pair, unless, indeed, as some of the wiser suggested, she got her disposition from
a grandparent.

"That navy niece of yours must be a wild girl," said Miss Port to the captain as she carved
the beef.

"Wild!" exclaimed the captain. "I never saw anything wild about her."

"Perhaps not," said his hostess, "but there's others that have. It was only three days ago
that she took that young man, that goggle-eyed one, out on the river in a boat, and did her
best to upset him. Whether she stood up and made the boat rock while he clung to the side,
or whether she bumped the boat against rocks and sand-bars, laughin' the louder the more he
was frightened, I wasn't told. But she did skeer him awful. I know that."

"You seem to know a good deal about what is going on at Broadstone," remarked the captain,
somewhat sarcastically.

"Indeed I do," said she; "a good deal more than they think. They've got such fine stomachs
that they can't eat the beef they get at the gap, and Mr. Morris goes there three times a week,
all the way from Glenford, to take them Chicago beef. The rest of the time they mostly eat
chickens, I'm told."

"And so your butcher takes meat and brings back news," said the captain. "The next time he
passes the toll-gate I will tell him to leave the news with me, and I will see that it is properly
distributed." And with this, he began to talk with Mr. Port.

"Oh, you needn't be so snappish about her," insisted Maria. "If you are in that temper often,
I don't wonder the young woman wanted to go away."

The captain made no answer, but his glance at the speaker was not altogether a pleasant one.
Old Mr. Port did not hear very well; but his eyesight was good, and he perceived from the captain's
expression that his daughter had been saying something sharp. This he never allowed at his
table; and, turning to her, he said gently, but firmly:

"Maria, don't you think you'd better go up-stairs and go to bed?"

"He's all the time thinkin' I'm a child," said Miss Maria, with a grin; "but how awfully he's
mistook." Then she added: "Has that teacher got money enough to support a wife when he marries
her? I don't suppose his salary amounts to much. I'm told it's a little bit of a college he
teaches at."

"I do not know anything about his salary," said the captain, and again attempted to continue
the conversation with the father.

But the daughter was not to be put down. "When is Olive Asher coming back to your house?" she
asked.

The captain turned upon her with a frown. "I did not say she was coming back at all," he snapped.

Now old Mr. Port thought it time for him to interfere. To him Maria had always been a young
person to be mildly counseled, but to be firmly punished if she did not obey said counsels.
It was evident that she was now annoying his old friend; Maria had a great habit of annoying
people, but she should not annoy Captain Asher.

"Maria," said Mr. Port, "leave the table instantly, and go to bed."

Miss Port smiled. She had finished her dinner, and she folded her napkin and dusted some crumbs
from her lap. She always humored her father when he was really in earnest; he was very old
and could not be expected to live much longer, and it was his daughter's earnest desire that
she should be in good favor with him when he died. With a straight-cut smile at the captain,
she rose and left the two old friends to their talk, and went out on the front piazza. There
she saw Mr. Morris, the butcher, on his way home with an empty wagon. She stepped out to the
edge of the sidewalk and stopped him.

"Been to Broadstone?" she asked.

"Yes," said the butcher with a sigh, and stopping his horse. Miss Port always wanted to know
so much about Broadstone, and he was on his way to his dinner.

"Well," said Miss Port, "what monkey tricks are going on there now? Has anybody been drowned
yet? Did you see that young man that's stayin' at the toll-gate?"

"Yes," said the butcher, "I saw him as I was crossing the bridge. He was in the big boat helping
to row. Pretty near the whole family was in the boat, I take it."

"That's like them, just like them!" she exclaimed. "The next thing we'll hear will be that
they've all gone to the bottom together. I don't suppose one of them can swim. Was the captain's
niece standin' up, or sittin' down?"

"They were all sitting down," said the butcher, "and behaving like other people do in a boat."
And he prepared to go on.

"Stop one minute," said Miss Port. "Of course you are goin' out there day after to-morrow?"

"No," said Mr. Morris. "I'm going to-morrow. They've ordered some extra things." Then he said,
with a sort of conciliatory grin, "I'll get some more news, and have more time to tell it."

"Now, don't be in such a hurry," said Miss Port, advancing to the side of the wagon. "I want
very much to go to Broadstone. I've got some business with that Mrs. Blynn that I ought to
have attended to long ago. Now, why can't I ride out with you to-morrow? That's a pretty broad
seat you've got."

The butcher looked at her in dismay. "Oh, I couldn't do that, Miss Port," he said. "I always
have a heavy load, and I can't take passengers, too."

"Now, what's the sense of your talkin' like that?" said Miss Port. "You've got a great big
horse, and plenty of room, and would you have me go hire a carriage and a driver to go out
there when you can take me just as well as not?"

The butcher thought he would be very willing. He did not care for her society, and, moreover,
he knew that both at Broadstone and in the town he would be ridiculed when it should be known
that he had been taking Maria Port to drive.

"Oh, I couldn't do it," he replied. "Of course, I'm willing to oblige--"

"Oh, don't worry yourself any more, Mr. Morris," interrupted Miss Port. "I'm not askin' you
to take me now, and I won't keep you from your dinner."

The next morning as Mr. Morris, the butcher, was driving past the Port house at rather a rapid
rate for a man with a heavy wagon, Miss Maria appeared at her door with her bonnet on. She
ran out into the middle of the street, and so stationed herself that Mr. Morris was obliged
to stop. Then, without speaking, she clambered up to the seat beside him.

"Now, you see," said she, settling herself on the leather cushion, "I've kept to my part of
the bargain, and I don't believe your horse will think this wagon is a bit heavier than it
was before I got in. What's the name of the new people that's comin' to Broadstone?"

CHAPTER IX

Miss Port takes a Drive with the Butcher.

As the butcher and Miss Port drove out of town the latter did not talk quite so much as was
her wont. She seemed to have something on her mind, and presently she proposed to Mr. Morris
that he should take the shunpike for a change.

"That would be a mile and a half out of my way!" he exclaimed. "I can't do it."

"I should think you'd get awfully tired of this same old road," said she.

"The easiest road is the one I like every time," said Mr. Morris, who was also not inclined
to talk.

Miss Port did not care to pass the toll-gate that day; she was afraid she might see the captain,
and that in some way or other he would interfere with her trip, but fortune favored her, as
it nearly always did. Old Jane came to the gate, and as this stolid old woman never asked any
questions, Miss Port contented herself with bidding her good morning, and sitting silent during
the process of making change.

This self-restraint very much surprised old Jane, who straightway informed the captain that
Miss Port was riding with the butcher to Broadstone--she knew it was Broadstone, for he had
no other customers that way--and she guessed something must be the matter with her, for she
kept her mouth shut, and didn't say nothing to nobody.

As the wagon moved on Miss Port heaved a sigh. Fearful that she might see the captain somewhere,
she had not even allowed herself to survey the premises in order to catch a glimpse of the
shipmate's son. This was a rare piece of self-denial in Maria, but she could do that sort of
thing on occasion.

When the butcher's wagon neared the Broadstone house Miss Port promptly got down, and Mr. Morris
went to the kitchen regions by himself. She never allowed herself to enter a house by the back
or side door, so now she went to the front, where, disappointed at not seeing any of the family
although she had made good use of her eyes, she was obliged to ask a servant to conduct her
to Mrs. Blynn. Before she had had time to calculate the cost of the rug in the hall, or to
determine whether the walls were calcimined or merely whitewashed, she found herself with that
good lady.

Miss Port's business with Mrs. Blynn indicated a peculiar intelligence on the part of the visitor.
It was based upon very little; it had not much to do with anything; it amounted to almost nothing;
and yet it appeared to contain certain elements of importance which made Mrs. Blynn give it
her serious consideration.

After she had talked and peered about as long as she thought was necessary, Maria said she
was afraid Mr. Morris would be waiting for her, and quickly took her leave, begging Mrs. Blynn
not to trouble herself to accompany her to the door. When she left the house Maria did not
seek the butcher's wagon, but started out on a little tour of observation through the grounds.
She was quite sure Mr. Morris was waiting for her, but for this she did care a snap of her
finger; he would not dare to go and leave her. Presently she perceived a young gentleman approaching
her, and she recognized him instantly--it was the goggle-eyed man who had been described to
her. Stepping quickly toward Mr. Locker, she asked him if he could tell her where she could
find Miss Asher; she had been told she was in the grounds.

The young man goggled his eye a little more than usual. "Do you know her?" said he.

"Oh, yes," replied Maria; "I met her at the house of her uncle, Captain Asher."

"And, knowing her, you want to see her"

Astonished, Miss Port replied, "Of course."

"Very well, then," said he; "beyond that clump of bushes is a seat. She sits thereon. Accept
my condolences."

"I will remember every word of that," said Miss Port to herself, "but I haven't time to think
of it now. He's just ravin'."

Olive had just had an interview with Mr. Locker which, in her eyes, had been entirely too protracted,
and she had sent him away. He had just made her an offer of marriage, but she had refused even
to consider it, assuring him that her mind was occupied with other things. She was busy thinking
of those other things when she heard footsteps near her.

"How do you do" said Miss Port, extending her hand.

Olive rose, but she put her hands behind her back.

"Oh!" said Miss Port, dropping her hand, but allowing herself no verbal resentment. She had
come there for information, and she did not wish to interfere with her own business. "I happened
to be here," she said, "and I thought I'd come and tell you how your uncle is. He took dinner
with us yesterday, and I was sorry to see he didn't have much appetite. But I suppose he's
failin', as most people do when they get to his age. I thought you might have some message
you'd like to send him."

"Thank you," said Olive with more than sufficient coldness, "but I have no message."

"Oh!" said Miss Port. "You're in a fine place here," she continued, looking about her, "very
different from the toll-gate; and I expect the Easterfields has everything they want that money
can more than pay for." Having delivered this little shot at the reported extravagance of the
lady of the manor, she remarked: "I don't wonder you don't want to go back to your uncle, and
run out to take the toll. It must have been a very great change to you if you're used to this
sort of thing."

"Who said I was not going back?" asked Olive sharply.

"Your uncle," said Miss Port. "He told me at our house. Of course, he didn't go into no particulars,
but that isn't to be expected, he's not the kind of man to do that."

Olive stood and looked at this smooth-faced, flat-mouthed spinster. She was pale, she trembled
a little, but she spoke no word; she was a girl who did not go into particulars, especially
with a person such as this woman standing before her.

Miss Port did not wish to continue the conversation; she generally knew when she had said enough.
"Well," she remarked, "as you haven't no message to send to your uncle, I might as well go.
But I did think that as I was right on my way, you'd have at least a word for him. Good mornin'."
And with this she promptly walked away to join Mr. Morris, cataloguing in her mind as she went
the foolish and lazy hammocks and garden chairs, the slow motions of a man who was sweeping
leaves from the broad stone, and various other evidences of bad management and probable downfall
which met her eyes in every direction.

When Miss Port approached the toll-gate on her return she was very anxious to stop, and hoped
that the captain would be at the gate. Fortune favored her again, and there he stood in the
doorway of the little tollhouse.

"Oh, captain," she exclaimed, extending herself somewhat over the butcher's knees in order
to speak more effectively, "I've been to Broadstone, and I've seen your niece. She's dressed
up just like the other fine folks there, and she's stiffer than any of them, I guess. I didn't
see Mrs. Easterfield, although I did want to get a chance to tell her what I thought about
her plantin' weeds in her garden, and spreadin' new kinds of seeds over this country, which
goes to weeds fast enough in the natural way. As to your niece, I must say she didn't show
me no extra civility, and when I asked her if she had any message for you, she said she hadn't
a word to say."

The captain was not in the least surprised to hear that Olive had not treated Miss Port with
extra civility. He remembered his niece treating this prying gossip with positive rudeness,
and he had been somewhat amused by it, although he had always believed that young people should
be respectful to their elders. He did not care to talk about Olive with Miss Port, but he had
to say something, and so he asked if she seemed to be having a good time.

"If settin' behind bushes with young men, and goggle-eyed ones at that, is havin' a good time,"
replied Miss Port, "I'm sure she's enjoyin' herself." And then, as she caught sight of Lancaster:
"I suppose that's the young man who's visitin' you. I hope he makes his scholars study harder
than he does. He isn't readin' his book at all; he's just starin' at nothin'. You might be
polite enough to bring him out and introduce him, captain," she added in a somewhat milder tone.

The captain did not answer; in fact, he had not heard all that Miss Port had said to him. If
Olive had refused to send him a word, even the slightest message, she must be a girl of very
stubborn resentments, and he was sorry to hear it. He himself was beginning to get over his
resentment at her treatment of him at the Broadstone luncheon, and if she had been of his turn
of mind everything might have been smoothed over in a very short time.

"Well?" remarked Maria in an inquiring tone.

"Excuse me," said the captain, "what were you saying?"

Miss Maria settled herself in her seat. "If you and that young man wastin' his time in the
garden can't keep your wits from wool-gatherin'," said she, "I hope old Jane has got sense
enough to go on with the housekeepin'. I'll call again when you've sent your young man away,
and got your young woman back."

Maria said little to the taciturn butcher on their way to Glenford, but she smiled a good deal
to herself. For years it had been the desire of her life to go to live in the toll-gate--not
with any idea of ousting Captain Asher--oh, no, by no means. Old Mr. Port could not live much
longer, and his daughter would not care to reside in the Glenford house by herself. But the
toll-gate would exactly suit her; there was life; there was passing to and fro; there was money
enough for good living and good clothes without any encroachment on whatever her father might
leave her; and, above all, there was the captain, good for twenty years yet, in spite of his
want of appetite, which she had mentioned to his niece. This would be a settlement which would
suit her in every way, but so long as that niece lived there, there would be no hope of it;
even the shipmate's son would be in the way. But she supposed he would soon be off.

CHAPTER X

Mrs. Easterfield writes a Letter.

When Miss Port had left her, Olive was so much disturbed by what that placid spinster had told
her that she totally forgot Claude Locker's proposal of marriage, as well as the other things
she had been thinking about. These things had been not at all unpleasant; she had been thinking
of her uncle and her return to the toll-gate house. Her visit to Broadstone was drawing to
a close, and she was getting very tired of Mr. Locker and Mr. and Mrs. Fox. She found, now
her anger had cooled down, that she was actually missing her uncle, and was thinking of him
as of some one who belonged to her. Her own father had never seemed to belong to her; for periods
of three years he was away on his ship; and, even when he had been on shore duty, she had sometimes
been at school; and when she and her parents had been stationed somewhere together, the lieutenant
had been a good deal away from home on this or that naval business. When a girl she had taken
these absences as a matter of course, but since she had been living with her uncle her ideas
on the subject had changed. She wanted now to be at home with him: and as Broadstone was so
near the toll-gate she had no doubt that Mrs. Easterfield would sometimes want her to come
to her when, perhaps, she would have different people staying with her.

This was a very pleasant mental picture, and the more Olive had looked at it, the better she
had liked it. As to the reconciliation with her uncle, it troubled her mind but little. So
often had she been angry with people, and so often had everything been made all right again,
that she felt used to the process. Her way was simple enough; when she was tired of her indignation
she quietly dropped it; and then, taking it for granted that the other party had done the same,
she recommenced her usual friendly intercourse, just as if there had never been a quarrel or
misunderstanding. She had never found this method to fail--although, of course, it might easily
have failed with one who was not Olive--and she had not the slightest doubt that if she wrote
to her uncle that she was coming on a certain day, she would be gladly received by him when
she should arrive.

But now? After what that woman had told her, what now? If her uncle had said she was not coming
back, there was an end to her mental pictures and her pleasant plans. And what a hard man he
must be to say that!

Slowly walking over the grass, Olive went to look for Mrs. Easterfield, and found her in her
garden on her knees by a flower-bed digging with a little trowel.

"Mrs. Easterfield," said she, "I am thinking of getting married."

The elder lady sprang to her feet, dropping her trowel, which barely missed her toes. She looked
frightened. "What?" she exclaimed. "To whom?"

"Not to anybody in particular," replied Olive. "I am considering the subject in general. Let's
go sit on that bench, and talk about it."

A little relieved, Mrs. Easterfield followed her. "I don't know what you mean," she said, when
they were seated. "Women don't think of marriage in a general way; they consider it in a particular
way."

"Oh, I am different," said Olive; "I am a navy girl, and more like a man. I have to look out
for myself. I think it is time I was married, and therefore I am giving the subject attention.
Don't you think that is prudent?"

"And you say you have no particular leanings?" the other inquired.

"None whatever," said Olive. "Mr. Locker proposed to me less than an hour ago, but I gave him
no answer. He is too precipitate, and he is only one person, anyway."

"You don't want to marry more than one person!" exclaimed Mrs. Easterfield.

"No," said Olive, "but I want more than one to choose from."

Mrs. Easterfield did not understand the girl at all. But this was not to be expected so soon;
she must wait a little, and find out more. Notwithstanding her apparent indifference to Claude
Locker, there was more danger in that direction than Mrs. Easterfield had supposed. A really
persistent lover is often very dangerous, no matter how indifferent a young woman may be.

"Have you been considering the professor?" she asked, with a smile. "I noticed that you were
very gracious to him yesterday."

"No, I haven't," said Olive. "But I suppose I might as well. I did try to make him have a good
time, but I was still a little provoked and felt that I would like him to go back to my uncle
and tell him that he had enjoyed himself. But now I suppose I must consider all the eligibles."

"Why now?" asked Mrs. Easterfield quickly; "why now more than any previous time?"

Olive did not immediately answer, but presently she said: "I am not going back to my uncle.
There was a woman here just now--I don't know whether she was sent or not--who informed me
that he did not expect me to return to his house. When my mother was living we were great companions
for each other, but now you see I am left entirely alone. It will be a good while before father
comes back, and then I don't know whether he can settle down or not. Besides, I am not very
well acquainted with him, but I suppose that would arrange itself in time. So you see all I
can do is to visit about until I am married, and therefore the sooner I am married and settled
the better."

"Perhaps this is a cold-blooded girl!" said Mrs. Easterfield to herself. "But perhaps it is
not!" Then, speaking aloud, she said: "Olive Asher, were you ever in love?"

The girl looked at her with reflective eyes. "Yes," she said. "I was once, but that was the
only time."

"Would you mind telling me about it?" asked Mrs. Easterfield.

"Not at all," replied the girl. "I was between thirteen and fourteen, and wore short dresses,
and my hair was plaited. My father was on duty at the Philadelphia Navy-Yard, and we lived
in that city. There was a young man who used to come to bring messages to father; I think he
was a clerk or a draftsman. I do not remember his name, except that his first name was Rupert,
and father always called him by that. He was a beautiful man-boy or boy-man, however you choose
to put it. His eyes were heavenly blue, his skin was smooth and white, his cheeks were red,
and he had the most charming mouth I ever saw. He was just the right height, well shaped, and
wore the most becoming clothes. I fell madly in love with him the second time I saw him, and
continued so for a long time. I used to think about him and dream about him, and write little
poems about him which nobody ever saw. I tried to make a sketch of his face once, but I failed
and tore it up."

"What did he do?" asked Mrs. Easterfield.

"Nothing whatever," said Olive. "I never spoke to him, or he to me. I don't believe he ever
noticed me. Whenever I could I went into the room where he was talking to father, but I was
very quiet and kept in the background, and I do not think his eyes ever fell upon me. But that
did not make any difference at all. He was beautiful above all other men in the world, and
I loved him. He was my first, my only love, and it almost brings tears in my eyes now to think
of him."

"Then you really could love the right person if he were to come along," said Mrs. Easterfield.

"Why do you think I couldn't? Of course I could. But the trouble is he doesn't come, so I must
try to arrange the matter with what material I have."

When Mrs. Easterfield left the garden she went rapidly to her room. There was a smile on her
lips, and a light in her eye. A novel idea had come to her which amused her, pleased her, and
even excited her. She sat down at her writing-table and began a letter to her husband. After
an opening paragraph she wrote thus:

"Is not Mr. Hemphill, of the central office of the D. and J., named Rupert? It is my impression
that he is. You know he has been to our house several times to dinner when you invited railroad
people, and I remember him very well. If his name is Rupert will you find out, without asking
him directly, whether or not he was engaged about seven years ago at the navy-yard. I am almost
positive I once had a conversation with him about the navy-yard and the moving of one of the
great buildings there. If you find that he had a position there, don't ask him any more questions,
and drop the subject as quickly as you can. But I then want you to send him here on whatever
pretext you please--you can send me any sort of an important message or package--and if I find
it desirable, I shall ask him to stay here a few days. These hard-worked secretaries ought
to have more vacations. In fact, I have a very interesting scheme in mind, of which I shall
say nothing now for fear you may think it necessary to reason about it. By the time you come
it will have been worked out, and I will tell you all about it. Now, don't fail to send Mr.
Hemphill as promptly as possible, if you find his name is Rupert, and that he has ever been
engaged in the navy-yard."

This letter was then sent to the post-office at the gap with an immediate-delivery stamp on it.

When Mrs. Easterfield went down-stairs, her face still glowing with the pleasure given by the
writing of her letter, she met Claude Locker, whose face did not glow with pleasure.

"What is the matter with you?" she asked.

"I feel like a man who has been half decapitated," said he. "I do not know whether the execution
is to be arrested and my wound healed, or whether it is to go on and my head roll into the dust."

"A horrible idea!" said Mrs. Easterfield. "What do you really mean?"

"I have proposed to Miss Asher and I was treated with indifference, but have not been discarded.
Don't you see that I can not live in this condition? I am looking for her."

"It will be a great deal better for you to leave her alone," replied Mrs. Easterfield. "If
she has any answer for you she will give it when she is ready. Perhaps she is trying to make
up her mind, and you may spoil all by intruding yourself upon her."

"That will not do at all," said Locker, "not at all. The more Miss Asher sees of me in an unengaged
condition the less she will like me. I am fully aware of this. I know that my general aspect
must be very unpleasant, so if I expect any success whatever, the quicker I get this thing
settled the better."

"Even if she refuses you," said Mrs. Easterfield.

"Yes," he answered; "then down comes the axe again, away goes my head, and all is over! Then
there is another thing," he said, without giving Mrs. Easterfield a chance to speak. "There
is that mathematical person. When will he be here again?"

"I do not know," replied Mrs. Easterfield; "he has merely a general invitation."

"I don't like him," said Locker. "He has been here twice, and that is two times too many. I
hate him."

"Why so?"

"Because he is unobjectionable," Locker answered, "and I am very much afraid Miss Asher likes
unobjectionable people. Now I am objectionable--I know it--and the longer I remain unengaged
the more objectionable I shall become. I wish you would invite nobody but such people as the
Foxes."

"Why?"

"Because they are married," replied Locker. "But I must not wait here. Can you tell me where
I shall be likely to find her?"

"Yes," said Mrs. Easterfield, "she is with the Foxes, and they are married."

CHAPTER XI

Mr. Locker is released on Bail.

Nearly the whole of that morning Dick Lancaster sat in the arbor in the tollhouse garden, his
book in his hand. Part of the time he was thinking about what he would like to do, and part
of the time he was thinking about what he ought to do. He felt sure he had stayed with the
captain as long as he had been expected to, but he did not want to go away. On the contrary,
he greatly desired to remain within walking distance of Broadstone. He was in love with Olive.
When he had seen her at luncheon, cold and reserved, he had been greatly impressed by her,
and when he went out boating with her the next day he gave her his heart unreservedly. When
people fell in love with Olive they always did it promptly.

As he sat, with Olive standing near the footlights of his mental stage and the drop-curtain
hanging between her and all the rest of the world, the captain strolled up to him.

"Dick," said he, "somehow or other my tobacco does not taste as it ought to. Give me a pipeful
of yours."

When the captain had filled his pipe from Dick's bag he lighted it and gave a few puffs. "It
isn't a bit better than mine," said he, "but I will keep on and smoke it. Dick, let's go and
take a walk over the hills. I feel rather stupid to-day. And, by the way, I hope you will be
able to stay with me for the rest of your vacation. Have you made plans to go anywhere else?"

"No plans of the slightest importance," answered Lancaster with joyous vivacity. "I shall be
delighted to stay."

This prompt acceptance somewhat surprised the captain. He had spoken without premeditation,
and without thinking of anything at all except that he did not want everybody to go away and
leave him. He had begun to know something of the pleasures of family life; of having some one
to sit at the table with him; to whom he could talk; on whom he could look. In fact, although
he did not exactly appreciate such a state of things, some one he could love. He was getting
really fond of Dick Lancaster.

As for Olive, he did not know what to think of her; sometimes he was sure she was not coming
back, and at other times he thought it likely he might get a letter that very day appointing
the time for her return. He stood puffing his pipe and thinking about this after Dick had spoken.

"But it does not matter," he said to himself, "which way it happens. If she doesn't come I
want him here, and if she does come, he is good enough for anybody, and perhaps she may be
pleased." And then he indulged in a little fragment of the dream which had come to him before;
he saw two young people in a charming home, not at the toll-gate, and himself living with them.
Plenty of money for all moderate needs, and all happy and satisfied. Then with a sigh he knocked
the tobacco from his pipe and said to himself: "If I hear she is coming, I will let her know
he is still here, and then she must judge for herself."

As they walked together over the hills, Dick Lancaster was very anxious to know something about
Olive's return, but he did not like to ask. The captain had been very reticent on the subject
of his niece, and Dick was a gentleman. But to his surprise, and very much to his delight,
the captain soon began to talk about Olive. He told Dick how his brother had entered the navy
when the elder was first mate on a merchant vessel; how Alfred had risen in the service; had
married; and how his wife and daughter had lived in various parts of the world. Then he spoke
of a good many things he had heard about Olive, and other things he had found out since she
had lived with him; and as he went on his heart warmed, and Dick Lancaster listened with as
warm a heart as that from which the captain spoke.

And thus they walked over the hills, this young man and this elderly man, each in love with
the same girl.

During all the walk Dick never asked when Miss Asher was coming back to the tollhouse, nor
did Captain Asher make any remarks upon the subject. It was not really of vital importance
to Dick, as Broadstone was so near, and it was of such vital importance to the captain that
it was impossible for him to speak of it.

The next day the bright-hearted Richard trod buoyantly upon the earth; he did not care to read;
he did not want to smoke; and he was not much inclined to conversation; he was simply buoyant,
and undecided. The captain looked at him and smiled.

"Why don't you walk over to Broadstone?" he said. "It will do you good. I want you to stay
with me, but I don't expect you to be stuck down to this tollhouse all day. I am going about
the farm to-day, but I shall expect you to supper."

When he was ready to start Dick Lancaster felt a little perplexed. His ideas of friendly civility
impelled him to ask the captain if there was anything he could do for him, if there was any
message or missive he could take to his niece, or anything he could bring from her, but he
was prudent and refrained; if the captain wished service of this sort he was a man to ask for it.

The first person Dick met at Broadstone was Mrs. Easterfield, cutting roses.

"I am very glad to see you, Professor Lancaster," said she, as she put down her roses and her
scissors. "Would you mind, before you enter into the general Broadstone society, sitting down
on this bench and talking a little to me?"

Dick could not help smiling. What man in the world, even if he were in love with somebody else,
could object to sitting down by such a woman and talking to her?

"What I am going to say," said Mrs. Easterfield, "is impertinent, unwarranted, and of an officious
character. You and I know each other very slightly; neither of us has long been acquainted
with Captain Asher, you have met his niece but twice, and I have never really known her until
what you might call the other day. But in spite of all this, I propose that you and I shall
meddle a little in their affairs. I have taken the greatest fancy to Miss Asher, and, if you
can do it without any breach of confidence, I would like you to tell me if you know of any
misunderstanding between her and her uncle."

"I know of nothing of the kind," said Dick with great interest, "but I admit I thought there
might be something wrong somewhere. He knew I was coming here to-day--in fact, he suggested
it--but he sent Miss Asher no sort of message."

"Can it be possible he is cherishing any hard feelings against her?" she remarked. "I should
not have supposed he was that sort of man."

"He is not that sort of man," said Dick warmly. "He was talking to me about her yesterday,
and from what he said, I am sure he thinks she is the finest girl in the world."

"I am glad to hear that," said she, "but it makes the situation more puzzling. Can it be possible
that she is treating him badly?"

"Oh, I could not believe that!" exclaimed Dick fervently. "I can not imagine such a thing."

Mrs. Easterfield smiled. He had really known the girl but for one day, for the first meeting
did not count; and here he was defending the absolute beauty of her character. But the assumption
of the genus young man often overtops the pyramids. She now determined to take him a little
more into her confidence.

"Miss Asher has intimated to me that she does not expect to go back to her uncle's house, and
this morning she made a reference to the end of her visit here, but I thought you might be
able to tell me something about her uncle. If he really does not expect her back I want her
to stay here."

"Alas," said Dick, "I can not tell you anything. But of one thing I feel sure, and that is
that he would like her to come back."

"Well," said Mrs. Easterfield, "I am not going to let her go away at present, and if Captain
Asher should say anything to you on the subject, you are at liberty to tell him that. From
what you said the other day, I suppose you will soon be leaving this quiet valley for the haunts
of men."

"Oh, no," exclaimed Dick. "He wants me to stay with him as long as I can, and I shall certainly
do it."

"Now," said Mrs. Easterfield, rising, "I must go and finish cutting my roses. I think you will
find everybody on the tennis grounds."

Mrs. Easterfield had cut in all twenty-three roses when Claude Locker came to her from the
house. His face was beaming, and he skipped over the short grass.

"Congratulate me," he said, as he stepped before her.

Mrs. Easterfield dropped her roses and her scissors and turned pale. "What do you mean?" she
gasped.

"Oh, don't be frightened," he said. "I have not been acquitted, but the execution has been
stopped for the present, and I am out on bail. I really feel as though the wound in my neck
had healed."

"What stuff!" said Mrs. Easterfield, her color returning. "Try to speak sensibly."

"Oh, I can do that," said Mr. Locker; "upon occasion I can do that very well. I proposed again
to Miss Asher not twenty minutes ago. She gave me no answer, but she made an arrangement with
me which I think is going to be very satisfactory; she said she could not have me proposing
to her every time I saw her--it would attract attention, and in the end might prove annoying--but
she said she would be willing to have me propose to her every day just before luncheon, provided
I did not insist upon an answer, and would promise to give no indication whatever at any other
time that I entertained any unusual regard for her. I agreed to this, and now we understand
each other. I feel very confident and happy. The other person has no regular time for offering
himself, and if any effort of mine can avail he shall not find an irregular opportunity."

Mrs. Easterfield laughed. "Come pick up my roses," she said. "I must go in."

"It is like making love," said Locker as he picked up the flowers, "charming, but prickly."
At this moment he started. "Who is that?" he exclaimed.

Mrs. Easterfield turned. "Oh, that is Monsieur Emile Du Brant. He is one of the secretaries
of the Austrian legation. He is to spend a week with us. Suppose you take my flowers into the
house and I will go to meet him."

Claude Locker, his arms folded around a mass of thorny roses, and a pair of scissors dangling
from one finger, stood and gazed with savage intensity at the dapper little man--black eyes,
waxed mustache, dressed in the height of fashion--who, with one hand outstretched, while the
other held his hat, advanced with smiles and bows to meet the lady of the house. Locker had
seen him before; he had met him in Washington; and he had received forty dollars for a poem
of which this Austrian young person was the subject.

He allowed the lady and her guest to enter the house before him, and then, like a male Flora,
he followed, grinding his teeth, and indulging in imprecations.

"He will have to put on some other kind of clothes," he muttered, "and perhaps he may shave
and curl his hair. That will give me a chance to see her before lunch. I do not know that she
expected me to begin to-day, but I am going to do it. I have a clear field so far, and nobody
knows what may happen to-morrow."

As Locker stood in the hallway waiting for some one to come and take his flowers, or to tell
him where to put them, he glanced out of the back door. There, to his horror, he saw that Mrs.
Easterfield had conducted her guest through the house, and that they were now approaching the
tennis ground, where Professor Lancaster and Miss Asher were standing with their rackets in
their hands, while Mr. and Mrs. Fox were playing chess under the shade of a tree.

"Field open!" he exclaimed, dropping the roses and the scissors. "Field clear! What a double-dyed
ass am I!" And with this he rushed out to the tennis ground; Mrs. Easterfield did not play.

Before Mrs. Easterfield returned to the house she stood for a moment and looked at the tennis
players.

"Olive and three young men," she said to herself; "that will do very well."

A little before luncheon Claude Locker became very uneasy, and even agitated. He hovered around
Olive, but found no opportunity to speak to her, for she was always talking to somebody else,
mostly to the newcomer. But she was a little late in entering the dining-room, and Locker stepped
up to her in the doorway.

"Is this your handkerchief?" he asked.

"No," said she, stopping; "isn't it yours?"

"Yes," he replied, "but I had to have some way of attracting your attention. I love you so
much that I can scarcely see the table and the people."

"Thank you," she said, "and that is all for the next twenty-four hours."

CHAPTER XII

Mr. Rupert Hemphill.

That afternoon it rained, so that the Broadstone people were obliged to stay indoors. Dick
Lancaster found Mr. Fox a very agreeable and well-informed man, and Mrs. Fox was also an excellent
conversationalist. Mrs. Easterfield, who, after the confidences of the morning, could not help
looking at him as something more than an acquaintance, talked to him a good deal, and tried
to make the time pass pleasantly, at which business she was an adept. All this was very pleasant
to Dick, but it did not compensate him for the almost entire loss of the society of Olive,
who seemed to devote herself to the entertainment of the Austrian secretary. Mrs. Easterfield
was very sorry that the young foreigner had come at this time, but he had been invited the
winter before; the time had been appointed; and the visit had to be endured.

When the rain had ceased, and Dick was about to take his leave, his hostess declared she would
not let him walk back through the mud.

"You shall have a horse," she said, "and that will insure an early visit from you, for, of
course, you will not trust the animal to other hands than your own. I would ask you to stay,
but that would not be treating the captain kindly."

As Dick was mounting Mr. Du Brant was standing at the front door, a smile on his swarthy countenance.
This smile said as plainly as words could have done so that it was very amusing to this foreign
young man to see a person with rolled-up trousers and a straw hat mount upon a horse. Claude
Locker, whose soul had been chafing all the afternoon under his banishment from the society
of the angel of his life, was also at the front door, and saw the contemptuous smile. Instantly
a new and powerful emotion swept over his being in the shape of a strong feeling of fellowship
for Lancaster. It made his soul boil with indignation to see the sneer which the Austrian directed
toward the young man, a thoroughly fine young man, who, by said foreigner's monkeyful impudence,
and another's mistaken favor, had been made a brother-in-misfortune of himself, Claude Locker.

"I will make common cause with him against the enemy," thought Locker. "If I should fail to
get her I will help him to." And although Dick's brown socks were plainly visible as he cantered
away, Mr. Locker looked after him as a gallant and honored brother-in-arms.

That evening Claude Locker fought for himself and his comrade. He persisted in talking French
with Mr. Du Brant; and his remarkable management of that language, in which ignorance and a
subtle facility in intentional misapprehension were so adroitly blended that it was impossible
to tell one from the other, amused Olive, and so provoked the Austrian that at last he turned
away and began to talk American politics with Mr. Fox, which so elated the poet that the ladies
of the party passed a merry evening.

"Would you like me to take him out rowing to-morrow?" asked Claude apart to his hostess.

"With you at the oars?" she asked.

"Of course," said Locker.

"I am amazed," said she, "that you should suspect me of such cold-blooded cruelty."

"You know you don't want him here," said Claude. "His salary can not be large, and he must
spend the greater part of it on clothes--and oil."

"Is it possible," she asked, "that you look upon that young man as a rival?"

"By no means," he replied; "such persons never marry. They only prevent other people from marrying
anybody. Therefore it is that I remember what sort of a boatman I am."

"My dear," said Mr. Fox, when he and his wife had retired to their room, "after hearing what
that Austrian has to say of the American people, I almost revere Mr. Locker."

"I heard some of his remarks," she said, "and I imagined they would have an effect of that
kind upon you."

When the Broadstone surrey came from the train the next morning it brought a gentleman.

"What!" exclaimed Mrs. Fox, when from the other side of the lawn she saw him alight. "Another
young man with a valise! It seems to me that this is an overdose!"

"Overdoses," remarked Mr. Fox, "are often less dangerous than just enough poison."

Mrs. Easterfield received this visitor at the door. She had been waiting for him, and did not
wish him to meet anybody when she was not present. After offering his respectful salutations,
Mr. Hemphill, Mr. Easterfield's secretary in the central office of the D. and J., delivered
without delay a package of which he was the bearer, and apologized for his valise, stating
that Mr. Easterfield had told him he must spend the night at Broadstone.

"Most assuredly you would do that," said she, and to herself she added, "If I want you longer
I will let you know."

Mr. Rupert Hemphill was a very handsome man; his nose was fine; his eyes were dark and expressive;
he wore silky side-whiskers, which, however, did not entirely conceal the bloom upon his cheeks;
his teeth were very good; he was well shaped; and his clothes fitted him admirably.

As has been said before, Mrs. Easterfield was exceedingly interested; she was even a little
agitated, which was not common with her. She had Mr. Hemphill conducted to his room, and then
she waited for him to come down; this also was not common with her.

"Mr. Locker," she called from the open door, "do you know where Miss Asher is?"

The poet stopped in his stride across the lawn, and approached the lady. "Oh, she is with the
Du Brant," said he. "I have been trying to get in some of my French, but neither of them will
rise to the fly. However, I am content; it is now three hours before luncheon, and if she has
him to herself for that length of time, I think she will be thoroughly disgusted. Then it will
be my time, as per agreement."

Mrs. Easterfield was a little disappointed. She wanted Olive by herself, but she did not want
to make a point of sending for her. But fortune favored her.

"There she is," exclaimed Locker; "she is just going into the library. Let me go tell her you
want her."

"Not at all," said Mrs. Easterfield. "Don't put yourself into danger of breaking your word
by seeing her alone before luncheon. I'll go to her."

Mr. Locker continued his melancholy stroll, and Mrs. Easterfield entered the library. Olive
must not be allowed to go away until the moment arrived which had been awaited with so much
interest.

"I am looking for a copy of Tartarin sur les Alps. I am sure I saw it among these French books,"
said Olive, on her knees before a low bookcase. "Would you believe it, Mr. Du Brant has never
read it, and he seems to think so much of education."

Mrs. Easterfield knew exactly where the book was, but she preferred to allow Olive to occupy
herself in looking for it, while she kept her eyes on the hall.

"Wait a moment, Olive," said she; "a visitor has just arrived, and I want to make him acquainted
with you."

Olive rose with a book in her hand, and Mrs. Easterfield presented Mr. Hemphill to Miss Asher.
As she did so, Mrs. Easterfield kept her eyes steadily fixed upon the young lady's face. With
a pleasant smile Olive returned Mr. Hemphill's bow. She was generally glad to make new acquaintances.

"Mr. Hemphill is one of my husband's business associates," said Mrs. Easterfield, still with
her eyes on Olive. "He has just come from him."

"Did he send us this fine day by you?" said Olive. "If so, we are greatly obliged to him."

The young man answered that, although he had not brought the day, he was delighted that he
had come in company with it.

"What atrocious commonplaces!" thought Mrs. Easterfield. "The girl does not know him from Adam!"

Here was a disappointment; the thrill, the pallor, the involuntary start, were totally absent;
and the first act of the little play was a failure. But Mrs. Easterfield hoped for better things
when the curtain rose again. She conducted Mr. Hemphill to the Foxes and let Olive go away
with her book; and, as soon as she had the opportunity, she read the letter from her husband.

"With this I send you Mr. Hemphill," he wrote. "I don't know what you want to do with him,
but you must take good care of him. He is a most valuable secretary, and an estimable young
man. As soon as you have done with him please send him back."

"I am glad he is estimable," said Mrs. Easterfield to herself. "That will make the matter more
satisfactory to Tom when I explain it to him."

When Dick Lancaster, properly booted and wearing a felt hat, returned the borrowed horse, he
was met by Mr. Locker, who had been wandering about the front of the house, and when he had
dismounted Dick was somewhat surprised by the hearty handshake he received.

"I am sorry to have to tell you," said the poet, "that there is another one."

"Another what?" asked Dick.

"Another unnecessary victim," replied Locker. And with this he returned to the front of the house.

At last Olive came down the stairs, and she was alone. Locker stepped quickly up to her.

"If I should marry," he said, "would I be expected to entertain that Austrian?"

She stopped, and gave the question her serious consideration. "I should think," she said, "that
that would depend a good deal upon whom you should marry."

"How can you talk in that way?" he exclaimed. "As if there were anything to depend upon!"

"Nothing to depend upon," said Olive, slightly raising her eyebrows. "That is bad." And she
went into the dining-room.

The afternoon was an exceptionally fine one, but the party at Broadstone did not take advantage
of it; there seemed to be a spirit of unrest pervading the premises, and when the carriage
started on a drive along the river only Mr. and Mrs. Fox were in it. Mrs. Easterfield would
not leave Olive and Mr. Hemphill, and she did not encourage them to go. Consequently there
were three young men who did not wish to go.

"It seems to me," said Mr. Fox, as they rolled away, "that a young woman, such as Miss Asher,
has it in her power to interfere very much with the social feeling which should pervade a household
like this. If she were to satisfy herself with attracting one person, all the rest of us might
be content to make ourselves happy in such fashions as might present themselves."

"The rest of us!" exclaimed Mrs. Fox.

"Yes," replied her husband. "I mean you, and Mrs. Easterfield, and myself, and the rest. That
young woman's indeterminate methods of fascination interfere with all of us."

"I don't exactly see how they interfere with me," said Mrs. Fox rather stiffly.

"If the carriage had been filled, as was expected," said her husband, "I might have had the
pleasure of driving you in a buggy."

She turned to him with a smile. "Immediately after I spoke," she said, "I imagined you might
be thinking of something of that kind."

Mrs. Easterfield was not a woman to wait for things to happen in their own good time. If possible,
she liked to hurry them up. In this Olive and Hemphill affair there was really nothing to wait
for; if she left them to themselves there would be no happenings. As soon as was possible,
she took Olive into her own little room, where she kept her writing-table, and into whose sacred
precincts her secretary was not allowed to penetrate.

"Now, then," said she, "what do you think of Mr. Hemphill?"

"I don't think of him at all," said Olive, a little surprised. "Is there anything about him
to think of?"

"He sat by you at luncheon," said Mrs. Easterfield.

"I know that," said Olive, "and he was better than an empty chair. I hate sitting by empty chairs."

"Olive," exclaimed Mrs. Easterfield with vivacity, "you ought to remember that young man!"

"Remember him?" the girl ejaculated.

"Certainly," said Mrs. Easterfield. "After what you told me about him, I expected you would
recognize him the moment you saw him. But you did not know him; you did not do anything I expected
you to do; and I was very much disappointed."

"What are you talking about?" asked Olive.

"I am talking about Mr. Hemphill; Mr. Rupert Hemphill; who, about seven years ago, was engaged
in the Philadelphia Navy-Yard, and who came to your house on business with your father. From
what you told me of him I conjectured that he might now be my husband's Philadelphia secretary,
for his name is Rupert, and I had reason to believe that he was once engaged in the navy-yard.
When I found out I was entirely correct in my supposition I had him sent here, and I looked
forward with the most joyous anticipations to being present when you first saw him. But it
was all a fiasco! I suppose some people might think I was unwarrantably meddling in the affairs
of others, but as it was in my power to create a most charming romance, I could not let the
opportunity pass."

Olive did not hear a word of Mrs. Easterfield's latest remarks; her round, full eyes were fixed
upon the wall in front of her, but they saw nothing. Her mind had gone back seven years.

"Is it possible," she exclaimed presently, "that that is my Rupert, my beautiful Rupert of
the roseate cheeks, the Rupert of my heart, my only love! The Endymion-like youth I watched
for every day; on whom I gazed and gazed and worshiped and longed for when he had gone; of
whom I dreamed; to whom my soul went out in poetry; whose miniature I would have painted on
the finest ivory if I had known how to paint; and whose image thus created I would have worn
next my heart to look at every instant I found myself alone, if it had not been that my dresses
were all fastened down the back! I am going to him this instant! I must see him again! My Rupert,
my only love!" And with this she started to the door.

"Olive," cried Mrs. Easterfield, springing from her chair, "stop, don't you do that! Come back.
You must not--"

But the girl had flown down the stairs, and was gone.

CHAPTER XIII

Mr. Lancaster's Backers.

Olive found Mr. Hemphill under a tree upon the lawn. He was sitting on a low bench with one
little girl upon each knee. He was not a stranger to the children, for they had frequently
met him during their winter residences in cities. He was telling them a story when Olive approached.
He made an attempt to rise, but the little girls would not let him put them down.

"Don't move, Mr. Hemphill," said Olive; "I am going to sit down myself." And as she spoke she
drew forward a low bench. "I am so glad to see you are fond of children, Mr. Hemphill," she
continued; "you must have changed very much."

"Changed!" he exclaimed. "I have always been fond of them."

"Excuse me," said Olive, "not always. I remember a child you did not care for, on whom you
did not even look, who was absolutely nothing to you, although you were so much to her."

Mr. Hemphill stared. "I do not remember such a child," said he.

"She existed," said Olive. "I was that child." And then she told him how she had seen him come
to her father's house.

Mr. Hemphill remembered Lieutenant Asher, he remembered going to his house, but he did not
remember seeing there a little girl.

"I was not so very little," said Olive; "I was fourteen, and I was just at an age to be greatly
attracted by you. I thought you were the most beautiful young man I had ever beheld. I don't
mind telling you, because I can not look upon you as a stranger, that I fell deeply in love
with you."

As Mr. Hemphill sat and listened to these words his face turned redder than the reddest rose,
even his silky whiskers seemed to redden, his fine-cut red lips were parted, but he could not
speak. The two little girls had been gazing earnestly at Olive. Now the elder one spoke.

"I am in love," she said.

"And so am I," piped up the younger one.

"She's in love with Martha's little Jim," said the first girl, "but I am in love with Henry.
He's eight. Both boys."

"I wouldn't be in love with a girl," said the little one contemptuously.

This interruption was a help to Mr. Hemphill, and his redness paled a little.

"Of course you could not be expected to know anything of my feelings for you," said Olive,
"and perhaps it is very well you did not, for business is business, and the feelings of girls
should not be allowed to interfere with it. But my heart went out to you all the same. You
were my first love."

Now Mr. Hemphill crimsoned again worse than before. He had not yet spoken a word, and there
was no word in the English language which he thought would be appropriate for the occasion.

"You may think I am a little cruel to plump this sort of thing upon you," said Olive, "in such
a sudden way, but I am not. All this was seven years ago, and a person of my age can surely
speak freely of what happened seven years ago. I did not even know you when I met you, but
Mrs. Easterfield told me about you, and now I remember everything, and I think it would have
been inhuman if I had not told you of the part you used to play in my life. You have a right
to know it."

If Mr. Hemphill could have reddened any more he would have done so, but it was not possible.
The thought flashed into his mind that it might be well to say something about her having found
him very much changed, but in the next instant he saw that that would not do. How could he
assume that he had ever been beautiful; how could he force her to say that he was not beautiful
now, or that he still remained so?

"I am very glad I have met you," said Olive, "and that I know who you are. And I am glad, too,
to tell you that I forgive you for not taking notice of me seven years ago."

"Is that all of your story?" asked the elder little girl.

"Yes," said Olive, laughing, "that is all."

"Well, then, let Mr. Hemphill go on with his," said she.

"Oh, certainly," said Olive, jumping up; "and you must all excuse me for interfering with your
story."

Mr. Hemphill sat still, a little girl on each knee. He had not spoken a word since that beautiful
girl had told him she had once loved him. And he could not speak now.

"You look as if you had a plaster taken off," said the younger little girl. And, after waiting
a moment for an answer, she slipped off his knee; the other followed; and the story was postponed.

When Mrs. Easterfield heard Olive's account of this incident she was utterly astounded. "What
sort of a girl are you" she exclaimed. "What are you going to do about it now?"

"Do?" said Olive quietly. "I have done."

Mrs. Easterfield was in a state of great perplexity. She had already asked Mr. Hemphill to
stay until Saturday, three days off, and she could not tell him to go away, and the awkwardness
of his remaining in the same house with Olive was something not easy to deal with.

During Olive's interview with Mr. Hemphill and the little girls Claude Locker had been sitting
alone at a distance, gazing at the group. He was waiting for an opportunity of social converse,
for this was not forbidden him even if the time did not immediately precede the luncheon hour.
He saw Hemphill's blazing face, and deeply wondered. If it had been the lady who had flushed
he would have bounced upon the scene to defend her, but Olive was calm, and it was the conscious
guilt of the man that made his face look like a freshly painted tin roof. This was an affair
into which he had no right to intrude himself, and so he sat and sighed, and his heart grew
heavy. How many ante-luncheon avowals would have to be made before she would take so much interest
in him, one way or the other!

Mr. Du Brant also sat at a distance. He was reading, or at least appearing to read; but he
was so unaccustomed to holding a book in his hands that he did it very awkwardly, and Miss
Raleigh, who was looking at him from the library window, made up her mind that if he dropped
it, as she expected him to do, she would get the book and rub the dirt off the corners before
it was put back into the bookcase. But when Olive left Mr. Hemphill she went so quickly into
the house that the Austrian was unable to join her, and he, therefore, went to his room to
prepare for dinner.

Dick Lancaster had also been waiting, although not watching. He had hoped that he might have
a chance for a little talk with Olive. But there was really no good reason to expect it, for
he knew that two, and perhaps three, young men had stayed at home that afternoon in the hope
that they might have the same opportunity. The odds against him were great.

He began to think that perhaps he was engaged in a foolish piece of business, and was in danger
of making himself disagreeably conspicuous. The other young men were guests at Broadstone,
but if he came there every day as he had been doing, and as he wanted to do, it might be thought
that he was taking advantage of Mrs. Easterfield's kindness. At that moment he heard the rustle
of skirts, and, glancing up, saw Mrs. Easterfield, who was looking for him.

Mrs. Easterfield's regard for Lancaster was growing, partly on account of the confidence she
had already reposed in him. In her present state of mind she would have been glad to give him
still more, for she did not know what to do about Olive and Mr. Hemphill, and there was no
one with whom she could talk upon the subject; even if she had known Dick better her loyalty
to Olive would have prevented that.

"Have you found out anything about the captain and Olive?" she asked. "Has he spoken of her
return?"

"No," replied Dick; "he has not said a word on the subject, but I am very sure he would be
overjoyed to have her come back. Every day when the postman arrives I believe he looks for
a letter from her, and he shows that he feels it when he finds none. He is good-natured, and
pleasant, but he is not as cheerful as when I first came."

"Every day," said Mrs. Easterfield, as they walked together, "I love Olive more and more."

"So do I," thought Dick.

"But every day I understand her less and less," she continued. "She is truly a navy girl, and
repose does not seem to be one of her characteristics. From what she has told me, I believe
she has never lived in domestic peace and quiet until she came to stay with her uncle. It would
delight me to see her properly married. I wish you would marry her."

Dick stopped, and so did she, and they stood looking at each other. He did not redden, for
he was not of the flushing kind; his face even grew a little hard.

"Do you believe," said he, in a very different tone from his ordinary voice, "that I have the
slightest chance?"

"Of course I do," she answered. "I believe you have a very good chance, or I should not have
spoken to you. I flatter myself that I have excellent judgment concerning young men, and I
am very fond of Olive."

"Mrs. Easterfield," exclaimed Dick, "you know I am in love with her. I suppose that has been
easy enough to see, but it has all been very quick work with me; in fact, I have had very little
to say to her, and have never said anything that could in the slightest degree indicate how
I felt toward her. But I believe I loved her the second day I met her, and I am not sure it
did not begin the day before."

"I think that sort of thing is always quick work where Olive is concerned," said Mrs. Easterfield.
"I think it likely that many young men have fallen in love with her, and that they have to
be very lively if they want a chance to tell her so. But don't be jealous. I know positively
that none of them ever had the slightest chance. But now all that is passed. I know she is
tired of an unsettled life, and it is likely she may soon be thinking of marrying, and there
will be no lack of suitors. She has them now. But I want her to marry you."

"Mrs. Easterfield," exclaimed Dick, "you have known me but a very little while----"

"Don't mention that," she interrupted. "I do quick work as well as other people. I never before
engaged in any matchmaking business, but if this succeeds, I shall be proud of it to the end
of my days. You are in love with Olive, and she is worthy of you. I want you to try to win
her, and I will do everything I can to help you. Here is my hand upon it."

As Dick held that hand and looked into that face a courage and a belief in himself came into
his heart that had never been there before. By day and by night his soul had been filled with
the image of Olive, but up to this moment he had not thought of marrying her. That was something
that belonged to the future, not even considered in his state of inchoate adoration. But now
that he had been told he had reason to hope, he hoped; and the fact that one beautiful woman
told him he might hope to win another beautiful woman was a powerful encouragement. Henceforth
he would not be content with simply loving Olive; if it were within his power he would win,
he would have her.

"You look like a soldier going forth to conquest," said Mrs. Easterfield with a smile.

"And you," said he impulsively, "you not only look like, but you are an angel."

This was pretty strong for the young professor, but the lady understood him. She was very glad,
indeed, that he could express himself impulsively, for without that power he could not win Olive.

As Dick started away from Broadstone on his walk to the toll-gate he heard quick steps behind
him and was soon overtaken by Claude Locker.

"Hello," said that young man, "if you are on your way home I am going to walk a while with
you. I have not done a thing to-day."

When Dick heard these words his heart sank. He was on his way home accompanied by Olive--Olive
in his heart, Olive in his soul, Olive in his brain, Olive in the sky and all over the earth--how
dared a common mortal intrude himself upon the scene?

"There is another thing," said Locker, who was now keeping step with him. "My soul is filled
with murderous intent. I thirst for human life, and I need the restraints of companionship."

"Who is it you want to kill?" asked Dick coldly.

"It is an Austrian," replied the other. "I will not say what Austrian, leaving that to your
imagination. I don't suppose you ever killed an Austrian. Neither have I, but I should like
to do it. It would be a novel and delightful experience."

Dick did not think it necessary that he should be told more; he perfectly understood the state
of the case, for it was impossible not to see that this young man was paying marked attention
to Olive, while Mr. Du Brant was doing the same thing. But still it seemed well to say something,
and he remarked:

"What is the matter with the Austrian?"

"He is in love with Miss Asher," said Locker, "and so am I. I am beginning to believe he is
positively dangerous. I did not think so at first, but I do now. He has actually taken to reading.
I know that man; I have often seen him in Washington. He was always running after some lady
or other, but I never knew him to read before. It is a dangerous symptom. He reads with one
eye, while the other sweeps the horizon to catch a glimpse of her. By the way, that would be
a splendid idea for a district policeman; if he stood under a lamp-post in citizen's dress
reading a book, no criminal would suspect his identity, and he could keep one eye on the printed
page, and devote the other to the cause of justice. But to return to our sallow mutton, or
black sheep, if you choose. That Austrian ought to be killed!"

Dick smiled sardonically. "He is not your only obstacle," he said.

"I know it," replied Locker. "There's that Chinese laundried fellow, smooth-finished, who came
up this morning. He must be an old offender, for I saw her giving it to him hot this morning.
I am sure she was telling him exactly what she thought of him, for he turned as red as a pickled
beet. So he will have to scratch pretty hard if he expects to get into her good graces again,
and I suppose that is what he came here for. But I am not so much afraid of him as I am of
that Austrian. If he keeps on the literary lay, and reads books with her, looking up the words
in the dictionary, it is dangerous."

"I do not see," said Lancaster, somewhat loftily, "why you speak of these things to me."

"Then I'll tell you," said Locker quickly. "I speak of them to you because you are just as
much concerned in them as I am. You are in love with Miss Asher--anybody can see that--and,
in fact, I should think you were a pretty poor sort of a fellow if you were not, after having
seen and talked with her. Consequently that Austrian is just as dangerous to you as he is to
me. And as I have chosen you for my brother-in-arms, it is right that I tell you everything
I know."

"Brother-in-arms?" ejaculated Dick.

"That is what it is," said Locker, "and I will tell you how it came about. The Austrian looked
upon you with scorn and contempt because you rode a horse wearing rolled-up trousers and low
shoes. As you did not see him and could not return the contempt, I did it for you. Having done
this, a fellow feeling for you immediately sprang up within me. That is what always happens,
you know. After that the feeling became a good deal stronger, and I said to myself that if
I found I could not get Miss Asher; and it's seventy-six I don't, for that's generally the
state of my luck; I would help you to get her, partly because I like you, and partly because
that Austrian must be ousted, no matter what happens or how it is done. So I became your brother-in-arms,
and if I find I am out of the race, I am going to back you up just as hard as I can, and here's
my hand upon it."

Dick stopped as he had stopped half an hour before, and gazed upon his companion.

"Now don't thank me," continued Locker, "or say anything nice, because if I find I can come
in ahead of you I am going to do it. But if we work together, I am sure we need not be afraid
of that Austrian, or of that fiery-faced model for a ready-made-clothes shop. It is to be either
you or me--first place for me, if possible."

Dick could not help laughing. "You are a jolly sort of a fellow," said he, "and I will be your
brother-in-arms. But it is to be first place for me, if possible." And they shook hands upon
the bargain.

That evening Mr. Hemphill found Olive alone. "I have been trying to get a chance to speak to
you, Miss Asher," said he. "I want to ask you to help me, for I do not know what in the world
to do."

Olive looked at him inquiringly.

"Since you spoke to me this afternoon," he went on, "I have been in a state of most miserable
embarrassment; I can not for the life of me decide what I ought to say or what I ought to do,
or what I ought not to say or what I ought not to do. If I should pass over as something not
necessary to take into consideration the--the--most unusual statement you made to me, it might
be that you would consider me as a boor, a man incapable of appreciating the--the--highest
honors. Then again, if I do say anything to show that I appreciate such honors, you may well
consider me presumptuous, conceited, and even insulting. I thought a while ago that I would
leave this house before it would be necessary for me to decide how I should act when I met
you, but I could not do that. Explanations would be necessary, and I would not be able to make
them, and so, in sheer despair, I have come to you. Whatever you say I ought to do I will do.
Of myself, I am utterly helpless."

Olive looked at him with serious earnestness. "You are in a queer position," she said, "and
I don't wonder you do not know what to do. I did not think of this peculiar consequence which
would result from my revelation. As to the revelation itself, there is no use talking about
it; it had to be made. It would have been unjust and wicked to allow a man to live in ignorance
of the fact that such a thing had happened to him without his knowing it. But I think I can
make it all right for you. If you had known when you were very young, in fact, when you were
in another age of man, that a young girl in short dresses was in love with you, would you have
disdained her affection?"

"I should say not!" exclaimed Rupert Hemphill, his eyes fixed upon the person who had once
been that girl in short dresses.

"Well, then," said Olive, "there could have been nothing for her to complain of, no matter
what she knew or what she did not know, and there is nothing he could complain of, no matter
what he knew or did not know. And as both these persons have passed entirely out of existence,
I think you and I need consider them no longer. And we can talk about tennis or bass fishing,
or anything we like. And if you are a fisherman you will be glad to hear that there is first-rate
bass fishing in the river now, and that we are talking of getting up a regular fishing party.
We shall have to go two or three miles below here where the water is deeper and there are not
so many rocks."

That night Mr. Hemphill dreamed hard of a girl who had loved him when she was little, and who
continued to love him now that she had grown to be wonderfully handsome. He was going out to
sail with her in a boat far and far away, where nobody could find them or bring them back.

CHAPTER XIV

A Letter for Olive.

The next morning, about an hour after breakfast, Mr. Du Brant proposed to Olive. He had received
a letter the day before which made it probable that he might be recalled to Washington before
the time which had been fixed for the end of his visit at Broadstone, and he consequently did
not wish to defer for a moment longer than was necessary this most important business of his
life. He told Miss Asher that he had never truly loved before; which was probably correct;
and that as she had raised his mind from the common things of earth, upon which it had been
accustomed to grovel, she had made a new man of him in an astonishingly short time; which,
it is likely, was also true.

He assured her that without any regard to outside circumstances, he could not live without
her. If at any other time he had allowed his mind to dwell for a moment upon matrimony, he
had thought of family, position, wealth, social station, and all that sort of thing, but now
he thought of nothing but her, and he came to offer her his heart. In fact, the man was truly
and honestly in love.

Inwardly Olive smiled. "I can not ask him," she said to herself, "to say this again every day
before dinner. He hasn't the wit of Claude Locker, and would not be able to vary his remarks;
but I can not blast his hopes too suddenly, for, if I do that, he will instantly go away, and
it would not be treating Mrs. Easterfield properly if I were to break up her party without
her knowledge. But I will talk to her about it. And now for him.--Mr. Du Brant," she said aloud,
speaking in English, although he had proposed to her in French, because she thought she could
make her own language more impressive, "it is a very serious thing you have said to me, and
I don't believe you have had time enough to think about it properly. Now don't interrupt. I
know exactly what you would say. You have known me such a little while that even if your mind
is made up it can not be properly made up, and therefore, for your own sake, I am going to
give you a chance to think it all over. You must not say you don't want to, because I want
you to; and when you have thought, and thought, and know yourself better--now don't say you
can not know yourself better if you have a thousand years in which to consider it--for though
you think that it is true it is not"

"And if I rack my brains and my heart," interrupted Mr. Du Brant, "and find out that I can
never change nor feel in any other way toward you than I feel now, may I then----"

"Now, don't say anything about that," said Olive. "What I want to do now is to treat you honorably
and fairly, and to give you a chance to withdraw if, after sober consideration, you think it
best to do so. I believe that every young man who thinks himself compelled to propose marriage
in such hot haste ought to have a chance to reflect quietly and coolly, and to withdraw if
he wants to. And that is all, Mr. Du Brant. I must be off this minute, for Mrs. Easterfield
is over there waiting for me."

Mr. Du Brant walked thoughtfully away. "I do not understand," he said to himself in French,
"why she did not tell me I need not speak to her again about it. The situation is worthy of
diplomatic consideration, and I will give it that."

From a distance Claude Locker beheld his Austrian enemy walking alone, and without a book.

"Something has happened," he thought, "and the fellow has changed his tactics. Before, under
cover of a French novel, he was a snake in the grass, now he is a snake hopping along on the
tip of his tail. Perhaps he thinks this is a better way to keep a lookout upon her. I believe
he is more dangerous than he was before, for I don't know whether a snake on tip tail jumps
or falls down upon his victims."

One thing Mr. Locker was firmly determined upon. He was going to try to see Olive as soon as
it was possible before luncheon, and impress upon her the ardent nature of his feelings toward
her; he did not believe he had done this yet. He looked about him. The party, excepting himself
and Mr. Du Brant, were on the front lawn; he would join them and satirize the gloomy Austrian.
If Olive could be made to laugh at him it would be like preparing a garden-bed with spade and
rake before sowing his seeds.

The rural mail-carrier came earlier than usual that day, and he brought Olive but one letter,
but as it was from her father, she was entirely satisfied, and retired to a bench to read it.

In about ten minutes after that she walked into Mrs. Easterfield's little room, the open letter
in her hand. As Mrs. Easterfield looked up from her writing-table the girl seemed transformed;
she was taller, she was straighter, her face had lost its bloom, and her eyes blazed.

"Would you believe it!" she said, grating out the words as she spoke. "My father is going to
be married!"

Mrs. Easterfield dropped her pen, and her face lost color. She had always been greatly interested
in Lieutenant Asher. "What!" she exclaimed. "He? And to whom?"

"A girl I used to go to school with," said Olive, standing as if she were framed in one solid
piece. "Edith Marshall, living in Geneva. She is older than I am, but we were in the same classes.
They are to be married in October, and she is to sail for this country about the time his ship
comes home. He is to be stationed at Governor's Island, and they are to have a house there.
He writes, and writes, and writes, about how lovely it will be for me to have this dear new
mother. Me! To call that thing mother! I shall have no mother, but I have lost my father."
With this she threw herself upon a lounge, and burst into passionate tears. Mrs. Easterfield
rose, and closed the door.

Claude Locker had no opportunity to press his suit before luncheon, for Olive did not come
to that meal; she had one of her headaches. Every one seemed to appreciate the incompleteness
of the party, and even Mrs. Easterfield looked serious, which was not usual with her. Mr. Hemphill
was much cast down, for he had made up his mind to talk to Olive in such a way that she should
not fail to see that he had taken to heart her advice, and might be depended upon to deport
himself toward her as if he had never heard the words she had addressed to him. He had prepared
several topics for conversation, but as he would not waste these upon the general company,
he indulged only in such remarks as were necessary to good manners.

Mr. Du Brant talked a good deal in a perfunctory manner, but inwardly he was somewhat elated.
"Her emotions must have been excited more than I supposed," he thought. "That is not a bad sign."

Mrs. Fox was a little bit--a very little bit--annoyed because Mr. Fox did not make as many
facetious remarks as was his custom. He seemed like one who, in a degree, felt that he lacked
an audience; Mrs. Fox could see no good reason for this.

When Mrs. Easterfield went up to Olive's room she found her bathing her eyes in cold water.

"Will you lend me a bicycle" said Olive. "I am sure you have one."

Mrs. Easterfield looked at her in amazement.

"I want to go to my uncle," said Olive. "He is now all I have left in this world. I have been
thinking, and thinking about everything, and I want to go to him. Whatever has come between
us will vanish as soon as he sees me, I am sure of that. I do not know why he did not want
me to come back to him, but he will want me now, and I should like to start immediately without
anybody seeing me."

"But a bicycle!" exclaimed Mrs. Easterfield. "You can't go that way. I will send you in the
carriage."

"No, no, no," cried Olive; "I want to go quietly. I want to go so that I can leave my wheel
at the door and go right in. I have a short walking-skirt, and I can wear that. Please let
me have the bicycle."

Mrs. Easterfield made Olive sit down and she talked to her, but there was no changing the girl's
determination to go to her uncle, to go alone, and to go immediately.

CHAPTER XV

Olive's Bicycle Trip.

Despite Olive's desire to set forth immediately on her bicycle trip, it was past the middle
of the afternoon when she left Broadstone. She went out quietly, not by the usual driveway,
and was soon upon the turnpike road. As she sped along the cool air upon her face refreshed
her; and the knowledge that she was so rapidly approaching the dear old toll-gate, where, even
if she did not find her uncle at the house, she could sit with old Jane until he came back,
gave her strength and courage.

Up a long hill she went, and down again to the level country. Then there was a slighter rise
in the road, and when she reached its summit she saw, less than a mile away, the toll-gate
surrounded by its trees, the thick foliage of the fruit-trees in the garden, the little tollhouse
and the long bar, standing up high at its customary incline upon the opposite side of the road.
Down the little hill she went; and then, steadily and swiftly, onward. Presently she saw that
some one was on the piazza by the side of the tollhouse; his back was toward her, he was sitting
in his accustomed armchair; she could not be mistaken; it was her uncle.

Now and then, while upon the road, she had thought of what she should say when she first met
him, but she had soon dismissed all ideas of preconceived salutations, or explanations. She
would be there, and that would be enough. Her father's letter was in her pocket, and that was
too much. All she meant to do was to glide up to that piazza, spring up the steps, and present
herself to her uncle's astonished gaze before he had any idea that any one was approaching.

She was within twenty feet of the piazza when she saw that her uncle was not alone; there was
some one sitting in front of him who had been concealed by his broad shoulders. This person
was a woman. She had caught sight of Olive, and stuck her head out on one side to look at her.
Upon her dough-like face there was a grin, and in her eye a light of triumph. With one quick
glance she seemed to say: "Ah, ha, you find me here, do you? What have you to say to that?"

Olive's heart stood still. That woman, that Maria Port, sitting in close converse with her
uncle in that public place where she had never seen any one but men! That horrid woman at such
a moment as this! She could not speak to her; she could not speak to her uncle in her presence.
She could not stop. With what she had on her mind, and with what she had in her pocket, it
would be impossible to say a word before that Maria Port! Without a swerve she sped on, and
passed the toll-gate. She only knew one thing; she could not stop.

The wildest suspicions now rushed into her mind. Why should her uncle be thus exposing himself
to the public gaze with Maria Port? Why did it give the woman such diabolical pleasure to be
seen there with him? With a mind already prepared for such sickening revelations, Olive was
convinced that it could mean nothing but that her uncle intended to marry Maria Port. What
else could it mean? But no matter what it meant, she could not stop. She could not go back.

On went her bicycle, and presently she gained sufficient command over herself to know that
she should not ride into the town. But what else could she do? She could not go back while
those two were sitting on the piazza. Suddenly she remembered the shunpike. She had never been
on it, but she knew where it left the road, and where it reentered it. So she kept on her course,
and in a few minutes had reached the narrow country road. There were ruts here and there, and
sometimes there were stony places; there were small hills, mostly rough; and there were few
stretches of smooth road; but on went Olive; sometimes trying with much effort to make good
time, and always with tears in her eyes, dimming the roadway, the prospect, and everything
in the world.

"There now!" exclaimed Maria Port, springing to her feet. "What have you got to say to that?
If that isn't brazen I never saw brass!"

"What do you mean?" said the captain, rising in his chair.

"Mean?" said Maria Port, leaning over the railing. "Look there! Do you see that girl getting
away as fast as she can work herself? That's your precious niece, Olive Asher, scooting past
us with her nose in the air as if we was sticks and stones by the side of the road. What have
you got to say to that, Captain John, I'd like to know?"

The captain ran down the path. "You don't mean to say that is Olive!" he cried.

"That's who it is," answered Miss Port. "She looked me square in the face as she dashed by.
Not a word for you, not a word for me. Impudence! That doesn't express it!"

The captain paid no attention to her, but ran into the garden. Old Jane was standing near the
house door. "Was that Miss Olive?" he cried. "Did you see her?"

"Yes," said old Jane, "it was her. I saw her comin', and I came out to meet her. But she just
shot through the toll-gate as if she didn't know there was a toll on bicycles."

The captain stood still in the garden-path. He could not believe that Olive had done this to
treat him with contempt. She must have heard some news. There must be something the matter.
She was going into town at the top of her speed to send a telegram, intending to stop as she
came back. She might have stopped anyway if it had not been for that good-for-nothing Maria
Port. She hated Maria, and he hated her himself, at this moment, as she stood by his side,
asking him what was the matter with him.

"It's no more than you have to expect," said she. "She's a fine lady, a navy lady, a foreign
lady, that's been with the aristocrats! She's got good clothes on that she never wore here,
and where I guess she had a pretty stupid time, judgin' from how they carry on at that Easterfield
place. Why in the world should she want to stop and speak to such persons as you and me?"

The captain paid no attention to these remarks. "If she doesn't want to send a telegram, I
don't see what she is going to town for in such a hurry. I suppose she thought she could get
there sooner than a man could go on a horse," he said.

"Telegram!" sneered Miss Port. "It's a great deal easier to send telegrams from the gap."

"Then it is something worse," he thought. Perhaps she might be running away, though what in
the world she was running from he could not imagine. Anyway, he must see her; he must find
out. When she came back she must not pass again, and if she did not come back he must go after
her. He ran to the road and put down the bar, calling to old Jane to come there and keep a
sharp lookout. Then he quickly returned to the house.

"What are you going to do" asked Miss Port. "I never saw a man in such a fluster."

"If she does not come back very soon," said he, "I shall go to town after her."

"Then I suppose I might as well be going myself," said she. "And by the way, captain, if you
are going to town, why don't you take a seat in my carriage? Dear knows me and the boy don't
fill it."

But the captain would consider no such invitation. When he met Olive he did not want Maria
Port to be along. He did not answer, and went into the house to make some change in his attire.
Old Jane would not let Olive pass, and if he met her on the road or in the town he wanted to
be well dressed.

Miss Port still stood in the path by the house door. "That's not what I call polite," said
she, "but he's awful flustered, and I don't mind."

Far from minding, Maria was pleased; it pleased her to know that his niece's conduct had flustered
him. The more that girl flustered him the better it would be, and she smiled with considerable
satisfaction. If she could get that girl out of the way she believed she would find but little
difficulty in carrying out her scheme to embitter the remainder of the good captain's life.
She did not put it in that way to herself; but that was the real character of the scheme.

Suddenly an idea struck her. It was of no use for her to stand and wait, for she knew she would
not be able to induce the captain to go with her. It would be a great thing if she could, for
to drive into town with him by her side would go far to make the people of Glenford understand
what was going to happen. But, if she could not do this, she could do something else. If she
started away immediately she might meet that Asher girl coming back, and it would be a very
fine thing if she could have an interview with her before she saw her uncle.

She made a quick step toward the house and looked in. The captain was not visible, but old
Jane was standing near the back door of the tollhouse. The opportunity was not to be lost.

"Good-by, John," said she in a soft tone, but quite loud enough for the old woman to hear.
"I'll go home first, for I've got to see to gettin' supper ready for you. So good-by, John,
for a little while." And she kissed her hand to the inside of the house.

Then she hurried out of the gate; got into the little phaeton which was waiting for her under
a tree; and drove away. She had come there that afternoon on the pretense of consulting the
captain about her father's health, which she said disturbed her, and she had requested the
privilege of sitting on the toll-gate piazza because she had always wanted to sit there, and
had never been invited. The captain had not invited her then, but as she had boldly marched
to the piazza and taken a seat, he had been obliged to follow.

Captain Asher, wearing a good coat and hat, relieved old Jane at her post, and waited and waited
for Olive to come back. He did not for a moment think she might return by the shunpike, for
that was a rough road, not fit for a bicycle. And if she passed this way once, why should she
object to doing it again?

When more than time enough had elapsed for her return from the town, he started forth with
a heavy heart to follow her. He told old Jane that if for any reason he should be detained
in town until late, he would take supper with Mr. Port, and if, although he did not expect
this, he should not come back that night, the Ports would know of his whereabouts. He did not
take his horse and buggy because he thought it would be in his way. If he met Olive in the
road he could more easily stop and talk to her if he were walking than if he had a horse to
take care of.

"I hope you're not runnin' after Miss Olive," said old Jane.

The captain did not wish his old servant to imagine that it was necessary for him to run after
his niece, and so he answered rather quickly: "Of course not." Then he set off toward the town.
He did not walk very fast, for if he met Olive he would rather have a talk with her on the
road than in Glenford.

He walked on and on, not with his eyes on the smooth surface of the pike, but looking out afar,
hoping that he might soon see the figure of a girl on a bicycle; and thus it was that he passed
the entrance to the shunpike without noticing that a bicycle track turned into it.

Olive struggled on, and the road did not improve. She worked hard with her body, but still
harder with her mind. It seemed to her as though everything were endeavoring to crush her,
and that it was almost succeeding. If she had been in her own room, seated, or walking the
floor, indignation against her uncle would have given her the same unnatural vigor and energy
which had possessed her when she read her father's letter; but it is impossible to be angry
when one is physically tired and depressed, and this was Olive's condition now. Once she dismounted,
sat down on a piece of rock, and cried. The rest was of service to her, but she could not stay
there long; the road was too lonely. She must push on. So on she pressed, sometimes walking,
and sometimes on her wheel, the pedals apparently growing stiffer at every turn. Slight mishaps
she did not mind, but a fear began to grow upon her that she would never be able to reach Broadstone
at all. But after a time--a very long time it seemed--the road grew more level and smooth;
and then ahead she saw the white surface of the turnpike shining as it passed the end of her
road. When she should emerge on that smooth, hard road it could not be long, even if she went
slowly, before she reached home. She was still some fifty yards from the pike when she saw
a man upon it, walking southward.

As Dick Lancaster passed the end of the road he lifted his head, and looked along it. It was
strange that he should do so, for since he had started on his homeward walk he had not raised
his eyes from the ground. He had reached Broadstone soon after luncheon, before Olive had left
on her wheel, and had passed rather a stupid time, playing tennis with Claude Locker, he had
seen but little of Mrs. Easterfield, whose mind was evidently occupied. Once she had seemed
about to take him into her confidence, but had suddenly excused herself, and had gone into
the house. When the game was finished Locker advised him to go home.

"She is not likely to be down until dinner time," he had said, "and this evening I'll defend
our cause against those other fellows. I have several good things in my mind that I am sure
will interest her, and I don't believe there's any use courting a girl unless you interest her."

Lancaster had taken the advice, and had left much earlier than was usual.

CHAPTER XVI

Mr. Lancaster accepts a Mission.

When Dick Lancaster saw Olive he stopped with a start, and then ran toward her.

"Miss Asher!" he exclaimed. "What are you doing here? What is the matter? You look pale."

When she saw him coming Olive had dismounted, not with the active spring usual with her, but
heavily and clumsily. She did not even smile as she spoke to him.

"I am glad to see you, Mr. Lancaster," she said. "I am on my way back to Broadstone, and I
would like to send a message to my uncle by you."

"Back from where? And why on this road?" he was about to ask, but he checked himself. He saw
that she trembled as she stood.

"Miss Asher," said he, "you must stop and rest. Let me take your wheel and come over to this
bank and sit down."

She sat down in the shade and took off her hat; and for a moment she quietly enjoyed the cool
breeze upon her head. He did not want to annoy her with questions, but he could not help saying:

"You look very tired."

"I ought to be tired," she answered, "for I have gone over a perfectly dreadful road. Of course,
you wonder why I came this way, and the best thing for me to do is to begin at the beginning
and to tell you all about it, so that you will know what I have been doing, and then understand
what I would like you to do for me."

So she told him all her tale, and, telling it, seemed to relieve her mind while her tired body
rested. Dick listened with earnest avidity. He lost not the slightest change in her expression
as she spoke. He was shocked when he heard of her father; he was grieved when he imagined how
she must have felt when the news came to her; he was angry when he heard of the impertinent
glare of Maria Port; and his heart was torn when he knew of this poor girl's disappointment,
of her soul-harrowing conjectures, of her wearisome and painful progress along that rough road;
of which progress she said but little, although its consequences he could plainly see. All
these things showed themselves upon his countenance as he gazed upon her and listened, not
only with his ears, but his heart.

"I shall be more than glad," he said, when she had finished, "to carry any message, or to do
anything you want me to do. But I must first relieve you of one of your troubles. Your uncle
has not the slightest idea of marrying Miss Port. I don't believe he would marry anybody; but,
of all women, not that vulgar creature. Let me assure you, Miss Asher, that I have heard him
talk about her, and I know he has the most contemptuous opinion of her. I have heard him make
fun of her, and I don't believe he would have anything to do with her if it were not for her
father, who is one of his oldest friends."

She looked at him incredulously. "And yet they were sitting close together," she said; "so
close that at first I did not see her; apparently talking in the most private manner in a very
public place. They surely looked very much like an engaged couple as I have noticed them. And
old Jane has told me that everybody knows she is trying to trap him; and surely there is good
reason to believe that she has succeeded."

Dick shook his head. "Impossible, Miss Asher," he said. "He never would have such a woman.
I know him well enough to be absolutely sure of that. Of course, he treats her kindly, and
perhaps he is sociable with her. It is his nature to be friendly, and he has known her for
a long time. But marry her! Never! I am certain, Miss Asher, he would never do that."

"I wish I could believe it," said she.

"I can easily prove it to you," he said. "I will take your message to your uncle, I will tell
him all you want me to tell him, and then I will ask him, frankly and plainly, about Miss Port.
I do not in the least object to doing it. I am well enough acquainted with him to know that
he is a frank, plain man. I am sure he will be much amused at your supposition, and angry,
too, when I tell him of the way that woman looked at you and so prevented you from stopping
when you had come expressly to see him. Then I will immediately come to Broadstone to relieve
your mind in regard to the Maria Port business, and to bring you whatever message your uncle
has to send you."

"No, no," said Olive, "you must not do that. It would be too much to come back to-day. You
have relieved my mind somewhat about that woman, and I am perfectly willing to wait until to-morrow,
when you can tell me exactly how everything is, and let me know when my uncle would like me
to come and see him. I think it will be better next time not to take him by surprise. But I
would be very, very grateful to you, Mr, Lancaster, if you would come as early in the morning
as you can. I can wait very well until then, now that my mind is easier, but I am afraid that
when to-morrow begins I shall be very impatient. My troubles are always worse in the morning.
But you must not walk. My uncle has a horse and buggy. But perhaps it would be better to let
Mrs. Easterfield send for you. I know she will be glad to do it."

Dick assured her that he did not wish to be sent for; that he would borrow the captain's horse,
and would be at Broadstone as early as was proper to make a visit.

"Proper!" exclaimed Olive. "In a case like this any time is proper. In Mrs. Easterfield's name
I invite you to breakfast. I know she will be glad to have me do it. And now I must go on.
You are very, very good, and I am very grateful."

Dick could not say that he was more grateful for being allowed to help her than she could possibly
be for being helped, but his face showed it, and if she had looked at him she would have known it.

"Miss Asher," he exclaimed as she rose, "your skirt is covered with dust. You must have fallen."

"I did have one fall," she said, "but I was so worried I did not mind."

"But you can not go back in that plight," he said; "let me dust your skirt." And breaking a
little branch from a bush, he proceeded to make her look presentable. "And now," said he, when
she had complimented him upon his skill, "I will walk with you to the entrance of the grounds.
Perhaps as you are so tired," he said hesitatingly, "I can help you along, so that you will
not have to work so hard yourself."

"Oh, no," she answered; "that is not at all necessary. When I am on the turnpike I can go beautifully.
I feel ever so much rested and stronger, and it is all due to you. So you see, although you
will not go with me, you will help me very much." And she smiled as she spoke. He truly had
helped her very much.

Dick was unwilling that she should go on alone, although it was still broad daylight and there
was no possible danger, and he was also unwilling because he wanted to go with her, but there
was no use saying anything or thinking anything, and so he stood and watched her rolling along
until she had passed the top of a little hill, and had departed from his view. Then he ran
to the top of the little hill, and watched her until she was entirely out of sight.

The rest of the way to the toll-gate seemed very short to Dick, but he had time enough to make
up his mind that he would see the captain at the earliest possible moment; that he would deliver
his message and the letter of Lieutenant Asher; that he would immediately bring up the matter
of Maria Port and let the captain know the mischief that woman had done. Then, armed with the
assurances the captain would give him, he would start for Broadstone after supper, and carry
the good news to Olive. It would be a shame to let that dear girl remain in suspense for the
whole night, when he, by riding, or even walking an inconsiderable number of miles, could relieve
her. He found old Jane in the tollhouse.

"Where is the captain" he asked.

"The captain?" she repeated. "He's in town takin' supper with his sweetheart."

Dick stared at her.

"Perhaps you haven't heard that he's engaged to Maria Port," said the woman; "and I don't wonder
you're taken back! But I suppose everybody will soon know it now, and the sooner the better,
I say."

"What are you talking about" exclaimed Dick. "You don't mean to tell me that the captain is
going to marry Miss Port?"

"Whether he wants to or not, he's gone so far he'll have to. I've knowed for a long time she's
been after him, but I didn't think she'd catch him just yet."

"I don't believe it." cried Dick. "It must be a mistake! How do you know it?"

"Know!" said old Jane, who, ordinarily a taciturn woman, was now excited and inclined to volubility.
"Don't you suppose I've got eyes and ears? Didn't I see them for ever and ever so long sittin'
out on this piazza, where everybody could see 'em, a-spoonin' like a couple of young people?
And didn't I see 'em tearin' themselves asunder as if they couldn't bear to be apart for an
hour? And didn't I hear her tell him she was goin' home to get an extry good supper for him?
And didn't I hear her call him 'dear John,' and kiss her hand to him. And if you don't believe
me you can go into the kitchen and ask Mary; she heard the 'dear John' and saw the hand-kissin'.
And then didn't he tell me he was goin' to the Ports' to supper, and if he stayed late and
anybody asked for him--meaning you, most probable, and I think he might have left somethin'
more of a message for you--that he was to be found with the Ports--with Maria most likely,
for the old man goes to bed early?"

Dick made no answer; he was standing motionless looking out upon the flowers in the garden.

"And perhaps you haven't heard of Miss Olive comin' past on a bicycle," old Jane remarked.
"I saw her comin', and I knew by the look on her face that it made her sick to see that woman
sittin' here, and I don't blame her a bit. When he started so early for town I thought he might
be intendin' to look for her, and yet be in time for the Ports' supper, but she didn't come
back this way at all, and I expect she went home by the shunpike."

"Which she did," said Dick, showing by this remark that he was listening to what the old woman
was saying.

"But he cut me mighty short when I asked him," continued old Jane. "I tried to ease his mind,
but as I found his mind didn't need no easin', I minded my own business, just as he was mindin'
his. And now, sir, you'll have to eat your supper alone this time."

If Dick's supper had consisted of nectar and the brains of nightingales he would not have noticed
it; and, until late in the evening, he sat in the arbor, anxiously waiting for the captain's
return. About ten o'clock old Jane, sleepy from having sat up so long, called to him from the
door that he might as well come in and let her lock up the house. The captain was not coming
home that night. He had stayed with the Ports once before, when the old man was sick.

"I guess he's got a better reason for stayin' tonight," she said. "It'll be a great card for
that Maria when the Glenford people knows it, and they'll know it you may be sure, if she has
to go and walk the soles of her feet off tellin' them. One thing's mighty sure," she continued.
"I'm not goin' to stay here with her in the house. He'll have to get somebody else to help
him take toll. But I guess she'll want to do that herself. Nothin' would suit her better than
to be sittin' all day in the tollhouse talkin' scandal to everybody that goes by."

CHAPTER XVII

Dick is not a Prompt Bearer of News.

When the captain reached Glenford, and before he went to the Ports' he went to the telegraph-office,
and made inquiries at various other places, but his niece had not been seen in town. He wandered
about so long and asked so many questions that it was getting dark when he suddenly thought
of the shunpike. He had not thought of it before, for it was an unfit road for bicycles, but
now he saw that he had been a fool. That was the only way she could have gone back.

Hurrying to a livery-stable, he hired a horse and buggy and a lantern, and drove to the shunpike.
There he plainly saw the track of the bicycle as it had turned into that rough road. Then he
drove on, examining every foot of the way, fearful that he might see, lying senseless by the
side of the road, the figure of a girl, perhaps unconscious from fatigue, perhaps dead from
an accident.

When at last he emerged upon the turnpike he lost the track of the bicycle, but still he went
on, all the way to Broadstone; a girl might be lying senseless by the side of the road, even
on the pike, which at this time was not much frequented. Thus assuring himself that Olive had
reached Broadstone in safety, or at least had not fallen by the way, he turned and drove back
to town upon the pike, passing his own toll-gate, where the bar was always up after dark. He
had promised to return the horse that night, and, as he had promised, he intended to do it.
It was after nine o'clock when, returning from the livery-stable, he reached the Port house,
and saw Maria sitting in the open doorway.

She instantly ran out to meet him, asking him somewhat sharply why he had disappointed them.
She had kept the supper waiting ever so long. He went in to see her father, who was sitting
up for him, and she busied herself in getting him a fresh supper. Nice and hot the supper was,
and although his answers to her questions had not been satisfactory, she concealed her resentment,
if she had any. When the meal was over both father and daughter assured him that it was too
late for him to go home that night, and that he must stay with them. Tired and troubled, Captain
Asher accepted the invitation.

As soon as he could get away from the Port residence the next morning Captain Asher went home.
He had hoped he would have been able to leave before breakfast, but the solicitous Maria would
not listen to this. She prepared him a most tempting breakfast, cooking some of the things
with her own hands, and she was so attentive, so anxious to please, so kind in her suggestions,
and in every way so desirous to make him happy through the medium of savory food and tender-hearted
concern, that she almost made him angry. Never before, he thought, had he seen a woman make
such a coddling fool of herself. He knew very well what it meant, and that provoked him still more.

When at last he got away he walked home in a bad humor; he was even annoyed with Olive. Granting
that what she had done was natural enough under the circumstances, and that she had not wished
to stop when she saw him in company with a woman she did not like, he thought she might have
considered him as well as herself. She should have known that it would give him great trouble
for her to dash by in that way and neither stop nor come back to explain matters. She must
have known that Maria Port was not going to stay always, and she might have waited somewhere
until the woman had gone. If she had had the least idea of how much he wanted to see her she
would have contrived some way to come back to him. But no, she went back to Broadstone to please
herself, and left him to wander up and down the roads looking for her in the dark.

When the captain met old Jane at the door of the tollhouse her salutation did not smooth his
ruffled spirits, for she told him that she and Mr. Lancaster had sat up until nearly the middle
of the night waiting for him, and that the poor young man must have felt it, for he had not
eaten half a breakfast.

The captain paid but little attention to these remarks and passed in, but before he crossed
the garden he met Dick, who informed him that he had something very important to communicate.
Important communications that must be delivered without a moment's loss of time are generally
unpleasant, and knowing this, the captain knit his brows a little, but told Dick he would be
ready for him as soon as he lighted his pipe. He felt he must have something to soothe his
ruffled spirits while he listened to the tale of the woes of some one else.

But at the moment he scratched his match to light his pipe his soul was illuminated by a flash
of joy; perhaps Dick was going to tell him he was engaged to Olive; perhaps that was what she
had come to tell him the day before. He had not expected to hear anything of this kind, at
least not so soon, but it had been the wish of his heart--he now knew that without appreciating
the fact--it had been the earnest wish of his heart for some time, and he stepped toward the
little arbor with the alacrity of happy anticipation.

As soon as they were seated Dick began to speak of Olive, but not in the way the captain had
hoped for. He mentioned the great trouble into which she had been plunged, and gave the captain
his brother's letter to read. When he had finished it the captain's face darkened, and his
frown was heavy.

"An outrageous piece of business," he said, "to treat a daughter in this way; to put a schoolmate
over her head in the family! It is shameful! And this is what she was coming to tell me?"

"Yes," said Dick, "that is it."

Now there was another flash of joy in the captain's heart, which cleared up his countenance
and made his frown disappear. "She was coming to me," he thought. "I was the one to whom she
turned in her trouble." And it seemed to this good captain as if he had suddenly become the
father of a grown-up daughter.

"But what message did she send me?" he asked quickly. "Did she say when she was coming again?"

Dick hesitated; Olive had said that she wanted her uncle to say when he wanted to see her,
so that there should be no more surprising, but this request had been conditional. Dick knew
that she did not want to come if her uncle were going to marry Miss Port; therefore it was
that he hesitated.

"Before we go any further," he said, "I think I would better mention a little thing which will
make you laugh, but still it did worry Miss Asher, and was one reason why she went back to
Broadstone without stopping."

"What is it" asked the captain, putting down his pipe.

Dick did not come out plainly and frankly, as he had told Olive he would do when he mentioned
the Maria Port matter. In his own heart he could not help believing now that Olive's suspicions
had had good foundations, and old Jane's announcements, combined with the captain's own actions
in regard to the Port family, had almost convinced him that this miserable engagement was a
fact. But, of course, he would not in any way intimate to the captain that he believed in such
nonsense, and therefore, in an offhand manner, he mentioned Olive's absurd anxiety in regard
to Miss Port.

When the captain heard Dick's statement he answered it in the most frank and plain manner;
he brought his big hand down on his knee and swore as if one of his crew had boldly contradicted
him. He did not swear at anybody in particular; there was the roar and the crash of the thunder
and the flash of the lightning, but no direct stroke descended upon any one. He was angry that
such a repulsive and offensive thing as his marriage to Maria Port should be mentioned, or
even thought of, but he was enraged when he heard that his niece had believed him capable of
such disgusting insanity. With a jerk he rose to his feet.

"I will not talk about such a thing as this," he said. "If I did I am sure I should say something
hard about my niece, and I don't want to do that." With this he strode away, and proceeded
to look after the concerns of his little farm.

Old Jane came cautiously to Dick. "Did he tell you when it was going to be, or anything about
it?" she asked.

"No," said Dick, "he would not even speak of it."

"I suppose he expects us to mind our own business," said she, "and of course we'll have to
do it, but I can tell him one thing--I'm goin' to make it my business to leave this place the
day before that woman comes here."

Dejected and thoughtful, Dick sat in the arbor. Here was a state of affairs very different
from what he had anticipated. He had not been able to hurry to her the evening before; he had
not gone to breakfast as she had invited him; he had not started off early in the forenoon;
and now he asked himself when should he go, or, indeed, why should he go at all? She had no
anxieties he could relieve. Anything he could tell her would only heap more unhappiness upon
her, and the longer he could keep his news from her the better it would be for her.

Olive had not joined the Broadstone party at dinner the night before. She had been too tired,
and had gone directly to her room, where, after a time, Mrs. Easterfield joined her; and the
two talked late. One who had overheard their conversation might well have supposed that the
elder lady was as much interested in Lieutenant Asher's approaching nuptials as was the younger
one. When she was leaving Mrs. Easterfield said:

"You have enough on your mind to give it all the trouble it ought to bear, and so I beg of
you not to think for a moment of that absurd idea about your uncle's engagement. I never saw
the woman, but I have heard of her; she is a professional scandal-monger; and Captain Asher
would not think for a moment of marrying her. When Mr. Lancaster comes to-morrow you will hear
that she was merely consulting him on business, and that you are to go to the toll-gate to-morrow
as soon as you can. But remember, this time I am going to send you in the carriage. No more
bicycles."

In spite of this well-intentioned admonition, Olive did not sleep well, and dreamed all night
of Miss Port in the shape of a great cat covered with feathers like a chicken, and trying to
get a chance to jump at her. Very early she awoke, and looking at her clock, she began to calculate
the hours which must pass before Mr. Lancaster could arrive. It was rather strange that of
the two troubles which came to her as soon as she opened her eyes, the suspected engagement
of her uncle pushed itself in front of the actual engagement of her father; the one was something
she knew she would have to make up her mind to bear; the other was something she feared she
would have to make up her mind to bear.

CHAPTER XVIII

What Olive determined to do.

Olive was very much disappointed at breakfast time, and as soon as she had finished that meal
she stationed herself at a point on the grounds which commanded the entrance. People came and
talked to her, but she did not encourage conversation, and about eleven o'clock she went to
Mrs. Easterfield in her room.

"He is not coming," she said. "He is afraid."

"What is he afraid of?" asked Mrs. Easterfield.

"He is afraid to tell me that the optimistic speculations with which he tried to soothe my
mind arose entirely from his own imagination. The whole thing is exactly what I expected, and
he hasn't the courage to come and say so. Now, really, don't you think this is the state of
the case, and that if he had anything but the worst news to bring me he would have been here
long ago?"

Mrs. Easterfield looked very serious. "I would not give up," she said, "until I saw Mr. Lancaster
and heard what he has to say."

"That would not suit me," said Olive. "I have waited and waited just as long as I can. It is
as likely as not that he has concluded that he can not do anything here which will be of service
to any one, and has started off to finish his vacation at some place where people won't bother
him with their own affairs. He told me when I first met him that he was on his way North. And
now, would you like me to tell you what I have determined to do?"

"I would," said Mrs. Easterfield, but her expression did not indicate that she expected Olive's
announcement to give her any pleasure.

"I have been considering it all the morning," said Olive, "and I have determined to marry without
delay. The greatest object of my life at present is to write to my father that I am married.
I don't wish to tell him anything until I can tell him that. I would also be glad to be able
to send the same message to the toll-gate house, but I don't suppose it will make much difference
there."

"Do you think," said Mrs. Easterfield, "that my inviting you here made all this trouble?"

"No," said Olive. "It was not the immediate cause, but uncle knows I do not like that woman,
and she doesn't like me, and it would not have suited him to have me stay very much longer
with him. I thought at first he was glad to have me go on account of Mr. Lancaster, but now
I do not believe that had anything to do with it. He did not want me with him, and what that
woman came here and told me about his not expecting me back again was, I now believe, a roundabout
message from him."

"Now, Olive," said Mrs. Easterfield, "it would be a great deal better for you to stop all this
imagining until you hear from Mr. Lancaster, if you don't see him. Perhaps the poor young man
has sprained his ankle, or was prevented in some ordinary way from coming. But what is this
nonsense about getting married?"

"There is no nonsense about it," said Olive. "I am going to marry, but I have not chosen any
one yet."

Mrs. Easterfield uttered an exclamation of horror. "Choose!" she exclaimed. "What have you
to do with choosing? I don't think you are much like other girls, but I did think you had enough
womanly qualities to make you wait until you are chosen."

"I intend to wait until I am chosen," said Olive, "but I shall choose the person who is to
choose me. I have always thought it absurd for a young woman to sit and wait and wait until
some one comes and sees fit to propose to her. Even under ordinary circumstances, I think the
young woman has not a fair chance to get what she wants. But my case is extraordinary, and
I can't afford to wait; and as I don't want to go out into the world to look for a husband,
I am going to take one of these young men here."

"Olive," cried Mrs. Easterfield, "you don't mean you are going to marry Mr. Locker?"

"You forget," said Olive, "that I told you I have not made up my mind yet. But although I have
not come to a decision, I have a leaning toward one of them. The more I think of it the more
I incline in the direction of my old love."

"Mr. Hemphill!" exclaimed Mrs. Easterfield. "Olive, you are crazy, or else you are joking in
a very disagreeable manner. There could be no one more unfit for you than he is."

"I am not crazy, and I am not joking," replied the girl, "and I think Rupert would suit me
very well. You see, I think a great deal more of Rupert than I do of Mr. Hemphill, although
the latter gentleman has excellent points. He is commonplace, and, above everything else, I
want a commonplace husband. I want some one to soothe me, and quiet me, and to give me ballast.
If there is anything out of the way to be done I want to do it myself. I am sure he is in love
with me, for his anxious efforts to make me believe that the frank avowal of my early affection
had no effect upon him proves that he was very much affected. I believe that he is truly in
love with me."

Mrs. Easterfield's sharp eyes had seen this, and she had nothing to say.

"I believe," continued Olive, "that a retrospect love will be a better foundation for conjugal
happiness than any other sort of affection. One can always look back to it no matter what happens,
and be happy in the memory of it. It would be something distinct which could never be interfered
with. You can't imagine what an earnest and absorbing love I once had for that man!"

Mrs. Easterfield sprang to her feet. "Olive Asher," she cried, "I can't listen to you if you
talk in this way!"

"Well, then," said Olive, "if you object so much to Rupert--you must not forget that it would
be Rupert that I would really marry if I became the wife of Mr. Hemphill--do you advise me
to take Mr. Locker? And I will tell you this, he is not to be rudely set aside; he has warm-hearted
points which I did not suspect at first. I will tell you what he just said to me. As I was
coming up-stairs he hurried toward me, and his face showed that he was very anxious to speak
to me. So before he could utter a word, I told him that he was too early; that his hour had
not yet arrived. Then that good fellow said to me that he had seen I was in trouble, and that
he had been informed it had been caused by bad news from my family. He had made no inquiries
because he did not wish to intrude upon my private affairs, and all he wished to say now was
that while my mind was disturbed and worried he did not intend to present his own affairs to
my attention, even though I had fixed regular times for his doing so. But although he wished
me to understand that I need not fear his making love to me just at this time, he wanted me
to remember that his love was still burning as brightly as ever, and would be again offered
me just as soon as he would be warranted in doing so."

"And what did you say to that?" asked Mrs. Easterfield.

"I felt like patting him on the head," Olive answered, "but instead of doing that I shook his
hand just as warmly as I could, and told him I should not forget his consideration and good
feeling."

Mrs. Easterfield sighed. "You have joined him fast to your car," she said, "and yet, even if
there were no one else, he would be impossible."

"Why so?" asked Olive quickly. "I have always liked him, and now I like him ever so much better.
To be sure he is queer; but then he is so much queerer than I am that perhaps in comparison
I might take up the part of commonplace partner. Besides, he has money enough to live on. He
told me that when he first addressed me. He said he would never ask any woman to live on pickled
verse feet, and he has also told me something of his family, which must be a good one."

"Olive," said Mrs. Easterfield, "I don't believe at all in the necessity or the sense in your
precipitating plans of marrying. It is all airy talk, anyway. You can't ask a man to step up
and marry you in order that you may sit down and write a letter to your father. But if you
are thinking of marrying, or rather of preparing to marry at some suitable time, why, in the
name of everything that is reasonable, don't you take Mr. Lancaster? He is as far above the
other young men you have met here as the mountains are above the plains; he belongs to another
class altogether. He is a thoroughly fine young man, and has a most honorable profession with
good prospects, and I know he loves you. You need not ask me how I know it--it is always easy
for a woman to find out things like that. Now, here is a prospective husband for you whose
cause I should advocate. In fact, I should be delighted to see you married to him. He possesses
every quality which would make you a good husband."

Olive smiled. "You seem to know a great deal about him," said she, "and I assure you that so
far as he himself is concerned, I have no objections to him, except that I think he might have
had the courage to come and tell me the truth this morning, whatever it is."

"Perhaps he has not found out the truth yet," quickly suggested Mrs. Easterfield.

Olive fixed her eyes upon her companion and for a few moments reflected, but presently she
shook her head.

"No, that can not be," she answered. "He would have let me know he had been obliged to wait.
Oh, no, it is all settled, and we can drop that subject. But as for Mr. Lancaster, his connections
would make any thought of him impossible. He, and his father, too, are both close friends of
my uncle, and he would be a constant communication between me and that woman unless there should
be a quarrel, which I don't wish to cause. No, I want to leave everything of that sort as far
behind me as it used to be in front of me, and as Professor Lancaster is mixed up with it I
could not think of having anything to do with him."

Mrs. Easterfield was silent. She was trying to make up her mind whether this girl were talking
sense or nonsense. What she said seemed to be extremely nonsensical, but as she said it, it
was difficult to believe that she did not consider it to be entirely rational.

"Well," said Olive, "you have objected to two of my candidates, and I positively decline the
one you offer, so we have left only the diplomat. He has proposed, and he has not yet received
a definite answer. You have told me yourself that he belongs to an aristocratic family in Austria,
and I am sure that would be a grand match. We have talked together a great deal, and he seems
to like the things I like. I should see plenty of court life and high society, for he will
soon be transferred from this legation, and if I take him I shall go to some foreign capital.
He is very sharp and ambitious, and I have no doubt that some day he will be looked upon as
a distinguished foreigner. Now, as it is the ambition of many American girls to marry distinguished
foreigners, this alliance is certainly worthy of due consideration."

"Stuff!" said Mrs. Easterfield.

Olive was not annoyed, and replied very quietly: "It is not stuff. You must know young women
who have married foreigners and who did not do anything like so well as if they had married
rising diplomats."

Mrs. Blynn now knocked at the door on urgent household business.

"I shall want to see you again about all this, Olive," said Mrs. Easterfield as they parted.

"Of course," replied the girl, "whenever you want to."

"Mrs. Blynn," said the lady of the house, "before you mention what you have come to talk about,
please tell one of the men to put a horse to a buggy and come to the house. I want to send
a message by him."

The letter which was speedily on its way to Mr. Richard Lancaster was a very brief one. It
simply asked the young gentleman to come to Broadstone, with bad news or good news, or without
any news at all. It was absolutely necessary that the writer should see him, and in order that
there might be no delay she sent a conveyance for him. Moreover, she added, it would give her
great pleasure if Mr. Lancaster would come prepared to spend a couple of days at her house.
She felt sure good Captain Asher would spare him for that short time. She believed that at
this moment more gentlemen were needed at Broadstone, and, although she did not go on to say
that she thought Dick was not having a fair chance at this very important crisis, that is what
she expected the young man to understand.

Just before luncheon, at the time when Claude Locker might have been urging his suit had he
been less kind-hearted and generous, Olive found an opportunity to say a few words to Mrs.
Easterfield.

"A capital idea has come into my head," she said. "What do you think of holding a competitive
examination among these young men?"

"More stuff, and more nonsense!" ejaculated Mrs. Easterfield. "I never knew any one to trifle
with serious subjects as you are trifling with your future."

"I am not trifling," said Olive. "Of course, I don't mean that I should hold an examination,
but that you should. You know that parents--foreign parents, I mean--make all sorts of examinations
of the qualifications and merits of candidates for the hands of their daughters, and I should
be very grateful if you would be at least that much of a mother to me."

"No examination would be needed," said the other quickly; "I should decide upon Mr. Lancaster
without the necessity of any questions or deliberations."

"But he is not a candidate," said Olive; "he has been ruled out. However," she added with a
little laugh, "nothing can be done just now, for they have not all entered themselves in the
competition; Mr. Hemphill has not proposed yet."

At that instant the rest of the family joined them on their way to luncheon.

The meal was scarcely over when Olive disappeared up-stairs, but soon came down attired in
a blue sailor suit, which she had not before worn at Broadstone, and although the ladies of
that house had been astonished at the number of costumes this navy girl carried in her unostentatious
baggage, this was a new surprise to them.

"Mr. Hemphill and I are going boating," said Olive to Mrs. Easterfield.

"Olive!" exclaimed the other.

"What is there astonishing about it?" asked the girl. "I have been out boating with Mr. Locker,
and it did not amaze you. You need not be afraid; Mr. Hemphill says he has had a good deal
of practise in rowing, and if he does not understand the management of a boat I am sure I do.
It is only for an hour, and we shall be ready for anything that the rest of you are going to
do this afternoon."

With this, away she went, skipping over the rocks and grass, down to the river's edge, followed
by Mr. Hemphill, who could scarcely believe he was in a world of common people and common things,
while he, in turn, was followed by the mental anathemas of a poet and a diplomat.

CHAPTER XIX

The Captain and Dick Lancaster desert the Toll-Gate.

When Captain Asher, in an angry mood, left his young friend and guest and went out into his
barnyard and his fields in order to quiet his soul by the consideration of agricultural subjects,
he met with but little success. He looked at his pigs, but he did not notice their plump condition;
he glanced at his two cows, cropping the grass in the little meadow, but it did not impress
him that they also were in fine condition; nor did he care whether the pasture were good or
not. He looked at this; and he looked at that; and then he folded his arms and looked at the
distant mountains. Suddenly he turned on his heel, walked straight to the stable, harnessed
his mare to the buggy, and, without saying a word to anybody, drove out of the gate, and on
to Glenford.

Dick Lancaster, who was in the arbor, looked in amazement after the captain's departing buggy,
and old Jane, with tears in her eyes, came out and spoke to him.

"Isn't this dreadful" she said to him. "Supper with that woman and there all night, and back
again as soon as he can get off this mornin'!"

"Perhaps he is not going to her house," Dick suggested. "He may have business in town which
he forgot yesterday."

"If he'd had it he'd forgot it," replied the old woman. "But he hadn't none. He's gone to Maria
Port's, and he may bring her back with him, married tight and fast, for all you or me knows.
It would be just like his sailor fashion. When the captain's got anything to do he just does
it sharp and quick."

"I don't believe that," said Dick. "If he had had any such intention as that he certainly would
have mentioned it to you or to me."

The good woman shook her head. "When an old man marries a girl," she said, "she just leads
him wherever she wants him to go, and he gives up everything to her, and when an old man marries
a tough and seasoned and smoked old maid like Maria Port, she just drives him wherever she
wants him to go, and he hasn't nothin' to say about it. It looks as if she told him to come
in this mornin', and he's gone. It may be for a weddin', or it may be for somethin' else, but
whatever it is, it'll be her way and not his straight on to the end of the chapter."

Dick had nothing to answer. He was very much afraid that old Jane knew what she was talking
about, and his mind was occupied with trying to decide what he, individually, ought to do about
it. Old Jane was now obliged to go to the toll-gate to attend to a traveler, but when she came
back she took occasion to say a few more words.

"It's hard on me, sir," she said, "at my age to make a change. I've lived at this house, and
I've took toll at that gate ever since I was a girl, long before the captain came here, and
I've been with him a long time. My people used to own this house, but they all died, and when
the place was sold and the captain bought it, he heard about me, and he said I should always
have charge of the old toll-gate when he wasn't attendin' to it himself, just the same as when
my father was alive and was toll-gate keeper, and I was helpin' him. But I've got to go now,
and where I'm goin' to is more'n I know. But I'd rather go to the county poorhouse than stay
here, or anywhere else, with Maria Port. She's a regular boa-constrictor, that woman is! She's
twisted herself around people before this and squeezed the senses out of them; and that's exactly
what she's doin' with the captain. If she could come here to live and bring her old father,
and get him to sell the house in town and put the money in bank, and then if she could worry
her husband and her father both to death, and work things so she'd be a widow with plenty of
money and a good house and as much farm land as she wanted, and a toll-gate where she could
set all day and take toll and give back lies and false witness as change, she'd be the happiest
woman on earth."

It had been long since old Jane had said as much at any one time to any one person, but her
mind was stirred. Her life was about to change, and the future was very black to her.

When dinner was ready the captain had not yet returned, and Dick ate his meal by himself. He
was now beginning to feel used to this sort of thing. He had scarcely finished, and gone down
to the garden-gate to look once more over the road toward Glenford, when the man in the buggy
arrived, and he received Mrs. Easterfield's letter.

He lost no moments in making up his mind. He would go to Broadstone, of course, and he did
not think it at all necessary to stand on ceremony with the captain. The latter had gone off
and left him without making any statement whatever, but he would do better, and he wrote a
note explaining the state of affairs. As he was leaving old Jane came to bid him good-by.

"I don't know," said she, "that you will find me here when you come back. The fact of it is
I don't know nothin'. But one thing's certain, if she's here I ain't, and if she's too high
and mighty to take toll in her honeymoon, the captain'll have to do it himself, or let 'em
pass through free."

Mrs. Easterfield was on the lawn when Lancaster arrived, and in answer to the involuntary glance
with which Dick's eyes swept the surrounding space, even while he was shaking hands with her,
she said: "No, she is not here. She has gone boating, and so you must come and tell me everything,
and then we can decide what is best to tell her."

For an instant Dick's soul demurred. If he told Olive anything he would tell her all he knew,
and exactly what had happened. But he would not lose faith in this noble woman who was going
to help him with Olive if she could. So they sat down, side by side, and he told her everything
he knew about Captain Asher and Miss Port.

"It does look very much as if he were going to marry the woman," said Mrs. Easterfield. Then
she sat silent and looked upon the ground, a frown upon her face.

Dick was also silent, and his countenance was clouded. "Poor Olive," he thought, "it is hard
that this new trouble should come upon her just at this time."

But Mrs. Easterfield said in her heart: "Poor fellow, how little you know what has come upon
you! The woman who has turned her uncle from Olive has turned Olive from you."

"Well," said the lady at length, "do you think it is worth while to say anything to her about
it? She has already surmised the state of affairs, and, so far as I can see, you have nothing
of importance to tell her."

"Perhaps not," said Dick, "but as she sent me on a mission I want to make known to her the
result of it so far as there has been any result. It will be very unpleasant, of course--it
will be even painful--but I wish to do it all the same."

"That is to say," said Mrs. Easterfield with a smile that was not very cheerful, "you want
to be with her, to look at her and to speak to her, no matter how much it may pain her or you
to do it."

"That's it," answered Dick.

Mrs. Easterfield sat and reflected. She very much liked this young man, and, considering herself
as his friend, were there not some things she ought to tell him? She concluded that there were
such things.

"Mr. Lancaster," she said, "have you noticed that there are other young men in love with Miss
Asher?"

"I know there is one," said Dick, "for he told me so himself."

"That was Claude Locker?" said she with interest.

"And he promised," continued Dick, "that if he failed he would do all he could to help me.
I can not say that this is really for love of me, for his avowed object is to prevent Mr. Du
Brant from getting her. We assumed that he was her lover, although I do not know that there
is any real ground for it."

"There is very good ground for it," said she, "for he has already proposed to her. What do
you think of that?"

"It makes no difference to me," said Dick; "that is, if he has not been accepted. What I want
is to find myself warranted in telling Miss Asher how I feel toward her; it does not matter
to me how the rest of the world feels."

"Then there is another," said Mrs. Easterfield, "with whom she is now on the river--Mr. Hemphill.
He is in love with her; and as he can not stay here very long, I think he will soon propose."

"I can not help it," said Dick; "I love her, and the great object of my life just at present
is to tell her so. You said you would help me, and I hope you will not withdraw from that promise."

"No, indeed," said she, "but I do not know her as well as I thought I did. But here she comes
now, and without the young man. I hope she has not drowned him!"

Without heeding anything that had just been said to him Dick kept his eyes fixed upon the sparkling
girl who now approached them. Every step she made was another link in his chain; Mrs. Easterfield
glanced at him and knew this. She pitied him for what he had to tell her now, and more for
what he might have to hear from her at another time. But Olive saved Dick from any present
ordeal. She stepped up to him and offered him her hand.

"I do not wonder, Mr. Lancaster," she said, "that you did not want to come back and tell me
your doleful story, but as I know what it is, we need not say anything about it now, except
that I am ever so much obliged to you for all your kindness to me. And now I am going to ask
another favor. Won't you let me speak to Mrs. Easterfield a few moments?"

As soon as they were seated, with the door shut, Olive began.

"Well," said she, "he has proposed."

"Mr. Hemphill!" exclaimed Mrs. Easterfield.

"Rupert," Olive answered, "yes, it is truly Rupert who proposed to me."

"I declare," cried Mrs. Easterfield, "you come to me and tell me this as if it were a piece
of glad news. Yesterday, and even this morning, you were plunged in grief, and now your eyes
shine as if you were positively happy."

"I have told you my aim and object in life," said the girl. "I am trying to do something, and
to do it soon, and everything is going on smoothly. And as to being happy, I tell you, Mrs.
Easterfield, there is no woman alive who could help being made happy by such a declaration
as I have just received. No matter what answer she gave him, she would be bound to be happy."

"Most other women would not have let him make it," said Mrs. Easterfield a little severely.

"There is something in that," said Olive, "but they would not have the object in life I have.
I may be unduly exalted, but you would not wonder at it if you had seen him and heard him.
Mrs. Easterfield, that man loves me exactly as I used to love him, and he has told me his love
just as I would have told him mine if I could have carried out the wish of my heart. His eyes
glowed, his frame shook with the ardor of his passion. Two or three times I had to tell him
that if he did not trim boat we should be upset. I never saw anything like his impassioned
vehemence. It reminded me of Salvini. I never was loved like that before."

"And what answer did you make to him?" asked Mrs. Easterfield, her voice trembling.

"I did not make him any. It would not have been fair to the others or to myself to do that.
I shall not swerve from my purpose, but I shall not be rash."

Mrs. Easterfield rose suddenly and stepped to the open window; she could not sit still a moment
longer; she needed air. "Olive," she said, "this is mad and wicked folly in you, and it is
impertinent in him, no matter how much you encouraged him. I would like to send him back to
his desk this minute. He has no right to come to his employer's house and behave in this manner."

Olive did not get angry. "He is not impertinent," said she. "He knows nothing in this world
but that I once loved him, and that now he loves me. Employer and employee are nothing to him.
I don't believe he would go if you told him to, even if you could do such a thing, which I
don't believe you would, for, of course, you would think of me as well as of him."

"Olive Asher," cried Mrs. Easterfield in a voice which was almost a wail, "do you mean to say
that you are to be considered in this matter, that for a moment you think of marrying this man?"

"Yes," said Olive; "I do think of it, and the more I think of it the better I think of it.
He is a good man; you have told me that yourself; and I can feel that he is good. I know he
loves me. There can be no mistake about his words and his eyes. I feel as I never felt toward
any other man, that I might become attached to him. And in my opinion a real attachment is
the foundation of love, and you must never forget that I once loved him." The girl now stepped
close to Mrs. Easterfield. "I am sorry to see those tears," she said; "I did not come here
to make you unhappy."

"But you have made me very unhappy," said the elder lady, "and I do not think I can talk any
more about this now."

When Olive had gone Mrs. Easterfield hurried down-stairs in search of Lancaster. She did not
care what any one might think of her unconventional eagerness; she wanted to find him, and
she soon succeeded. He was sitting in the shade with a book, which, when she approached him,
she did not believe he was reading.

"Yes," said she, as he started to his feet in evident concern, "I have been crying, and there
is no use in trying to conceal it. Of course, it is about Olive, but I can not confide in you
now, and I do not know that I have any right to do so, anyway. But I came here to beg you most
earnestly not to propose to Miss Asher, no matter how good an opportunity you may have, no
matter how much you want to do so, no matter how much hope may spring up in your heart."

"Do you mean," said Dick, "that I must never speak to her? Am I too late? Is she lost to me?"

"Not at all," said she, "you are not too late, but you may be too early. She is not lost to
anybody, but if you should speak to her before I tell you to she will certainly be lost to you."

CHAPTER XX

Mr. Locker determines to rush the Enemy's Position.

The party at Broadstone was not in what might be called a congenial condition. There were among
them elements of unrest which prevented that assimilation which is necessary to social enjoyment.
Even the ordinarily placid Mr. Fox was dissatisfied. The trouble with him was--although he
did not admit it--that he missed the company of Miss Asher. He had found her most agreeable
and inspiriting, but now things had changed, and he did not seem to have any opportunity for
the lively chats of a few days before. He remarked to his wife that he thought Broadstone was
getting very dull, and he should be rather glad when the time came for them to leave. Mrs.
Fox was not of his opinion; she enjoyed the state of affairs more than she had done when her
husband had been better pleased. There was something going on which she did not understand,
and she wanted to find out what it was. It concerned Miss Asher and one of the young men, but
which one she could not decide. In any case it troubled Mrs. Easterfield, and that was interesting.

Claude Locker seemed to be a changed man; he no longer made jokes or performed absurdities.
He had become wonderfully vigilant, and seemed to be one who continually bided his time. He
bided it so much that he was of very little use as a member of the social circle.

Mr. Du Brant was also biding his time, but he did not make the fact evident. He was very vigilant
also, but was very quiet, and kept himself in the background. He had seen Olive and Mr. Hemphill
go out in the boat, but he determined totally to ignore that interesting occurrence. The moment
he had an opportunity he would speak to Olive again, and the existence of other people did
not concern him.

Mr. Hemphill was walking by the river; Olive had not allowed him to come to the house with
her, for his face was so radiant with the ecstasy of not having been discarded by her that
she did not wish him to be seen. From her window Mrs. Easterfield saw this young man on his
return from his promenade, and she knew it would not be many minutes before he would reach
the house. She also saw the diplomat, who was glaring across the grounds at some one, probably
Mr. Locker, who, not unlikely, was glaring back at him. She had come up-stairs to do some writing,
but now she put down her pen and called to her secretary.

"Miss Raleigh," said she, "it has been a good while since you have done anything for me."

"Indeed it has," said the other with a sigh.

"But I want you to do something this minute. It is strictly confidential business. I want you
to go down on the lawn, or any other place where Miss Asher may be, and make yourself mal à
propos. I am busy now, but I will relieve you before very long. Can you do that? Do you understand?"

The aspect of the secretary underwent a total change. From a dull, heavy-eyed woman she became
an intent, an eager emissary. Her hands trembled with the intensity of her desire to meddle
with the affairs of others.

"Of course I understand," she exclaimed, "and I can do it. You mean you don't want any of those
young men to get a chance to speak to Miss Asher. Do you include Mr. Lancaster? Or shall I
only keep off the others?"

"I include all of them," said Mrs. Easterfield. "Don't let any of them have a chance to speak
to her until I can come down. And hurry! Here is one coming now."

Hurrying down-stairs, the secretary glanced into the library. There she saw Mrs. Fox in one
armchair, and Olive in another, both reading. In the hall were the two little girls, busily
engaged in harnessing two small chairs to a large armchair by means of a ball of pink yarn.
Outside, about a hundred yards away, she saw Mr. Hemphill irresolutely approaching the house.
Miss Raleigh's mind, frequently dormant, was very brisk and lively when she had occasion to
waken it. She made a dive toward the children.

"Dear little ones," she cried, "don't you want to come out under the trees and have the good
Mr. Hemphill tell you a story? I know he wants to tell you one, and it is about a witch and
two pussy-cats and a kangaroo. Come along. He is out there waiting for us." Down dropped the
ball of yarn, and with exultant cries each little girl seized an outstretched hand of the secretary,
and together they ran over the grass to meet the good Mr. Hemphill.

Of course he was obliged to want to tell them a story; they expected it of him, and they were
his employer's children. To be sure he had on mind something very practical and sensible he
wished to say to Miss Olive, which had come to him during his solitary walk, and which he did
not believe she would object to hearing, although he had said so much to her quite recently.
As soon as he should begin to speak she would know that this was something she ought to know.
It was about his mother, who had an income of her own, and did not in the least depend upon
her son. Miss Olive would certainly agree with him that it was proper for him to tell her this.

But the little girls seized his hands and led him away to a bench, where, having seated him
almost forcibly, each climbed upon a knee. The good Mr. Hemphill sent a furtive glare after
Miss Raleigh, who, with that smile of gentle gratification which comes to one after having
just done a good deed to another, sauntered slowly away.

"Don't come back again," cried out the older of the little girls. "He was put out in the last
story, and we want this to be a long one. And remember, Mr, Rupert, it is to be about a witch
and two pussy-cats--"

"And a kangaroo," added the other.

At the front door the secretary met Miss Asher, just emerging. "Isn't that a pretty picture"
she said, pointing to the group under the trees.

Olive looked at them and smiled. "It is beautiful," she said; "a regular family composition.
I wish I had a kodak."

"Oh, that would never do!" exclaimed Miss Raleigh. "He is just as sensitive as he can be, and,
of course, it's natural. And the dear little things are so glad to get him to themselves so
that they can have one of the long, long stories they like so much. May I ask what that is
you are working, Miss Asher?"

"It is going to be what they call a nucleus," said Olive, showing a little piece of fancy work.
"You first crochet this, and then its ultimate character depends on what you may put around
it. It may be a shawl, or a table cover, or even an apron, if you like crocheted aprons. I
learned the stitch last winter. Would you like me to show it to you?"

"I should like it above all things," said the secretary. And together they walked to a rustic
bench quite away from the story-telling group. "So far I have done nothing but nucleuses,"
said Olive, as they sat down. "I put them away when they are finished, and then I suppose some
time I shall take up one and make it into something."

"Like those pastry shells," said Miss Raleigh, "which can be laid away and which you can fill
up with preserves or jam whenever you want a pie. How many of these have you, Miss Asher?"

"When this is finished there will be four," said Olive.

At some distance, and near the garden, Dick Lancaster, strolling eastward, encountered Claude
Locker, strolling westward.

"Hello!" cried Locker. "I am glad to see you. Brought your baggage with you this time, I see.
That means you are going to stay, of course."

"A couple of days," replied Dick.

"Well, a man can do a lot in that time, and you may have something to do, but I am not sure.
No, sir," continued Locker, "I am not sure. I am on the point of making a demonstration in
force. But the enemy is always presenting some new force. By enemy you understand me to mean
that which I adore above all else in the world, but which must be attacked, and that right
soon if her defenses are to be carried. Step this way a little, and look over there. Do you
see that Raleigh woman sitting on a bench with her? Well, now, if I had not had such a beastly
generous disposition I might be sitting on that bench this minute. I was deceived by a feint
of the opposing forces this morning. I don't mean she deceived me. I did it myself. Although
I had the right by treaty to march in upon her, I myself offered to establish a truce in order
that she might bury her dead. I did not know who had been killed, but it looked as if there
were losses of some kind. But it was a false alarm. The dead must have turned up only missing,
and she was as lively as a cricket at luncheon, and went out in a boat with that tailor's model--sixteen
dollars and forty-eight cents for the entire suit ready-made; or twenty-three dollars made
to order."

Dick smiled a little, but his soul rebelled within him. He regretted that he had given his
promise to Mrs. Easterfield. What he wanted to do that moment was to go over to Captain Asher's
niece and ask her to take a walk with him. What other man had a better right to speak to her
than he had? But he respected his word; it would be very hard to break a promise made to Mrs.
Easterfield; and he stood with his hands in his pockets, and his brows knit.

"Now, I tell you what I am going to do," said Locker. "I am going to wait a little while--a
very little while--and then I shall bounce over my earthworks, and rush her position. It is
the only way to do it, and I shall be up and at her with cold steel. And now I will tell you
what you must do. Just you hold yourself in reserve; and, if I am routed, you charge. You'd
better do it if you know what's good for you, for that Austrian's over there pulverizing his
teeth and swearing in French because that Raleigh woman doesn't get up and go. Now, I won't
keep you any longer, but don't go far away. I can't talk any more, for I've got to have every
eye fixed upon the point of attack."

Dick looked at the animated face of his companion, and began to ask himself if the moment had
not arrived when even a promise made to Mrs. Easterfield might be disregarded. Should he consent
to allow his fate to depend upon the fortunes of Mr. Locker? He scorned the notion. It would
be impossible for the girl who had talked so sweetly, so earnestly, so straight from her heart,
when he had met her on the shunpike, to marry such a mountebank as this fellow, generous as
he might be with that which could never belong to him. As to the diplomat, he did not condescend
to bestow a thought upon such a black-pointed little foreigner.

CHAPTER XXI

Miss Raleigh enjoys a Rare Privilege.

Miss Raleigh was very attentive to the instructions given her by Miss Asher, and while she
exhibited the fashion of the new stitch Olive reflected.

"I wonder," she said to herself, "if Mrs. Easterfield has done this. It looks very much like
it, and if she did I am truly obliged to her. There is nothing I want so much now as a rest,
and I didn't want to stay in the house either. Miss Raleigh," said she, suddenly changing the
subject, "were you ever in love?"

The secretary started. "What do you mean by that?" she asked.

"I don't mean anything," said Olive. "I simply wanted to know."

"It is a queer question," said Miss Raleigh, her face changing to another shade of sallowness.

"I know that," said Olive quickly, "but the answers to queer questions are always so much more
interesting than those to any others. Don't you think so?"

"Yes, they are," said Miss Raleigh thoughtfully, "but they are generally awfully hard to get.
I have tried it myself."

"Then you ought to have a fellow feeling for me," said Olive.

"Well," said the other, looking steadfastly at her companion, "if you will promise to keep
it all to yourself forever, I don't mind telling you that I was once in love. Would you like
me to tell you who I was in love with?"

"Yes," said Olive, "if you are willing to tell me."

"Oh, I am perfectly willing," said the secretary. "It was Mr. Hemphill."

Olive turned suddenly and looked at her in amazement.

"Yes, it was Mr. Hemphill over there," said the other, speaking very tranquilly, as if the
subject were of no importance. "You see, I have been living with the Easterfields for a long
time, and in the winter we see a good deal of Mr. Hemphill. He has to come to the house on
business, and often takes meals. He is Mr. Easterfield's private and confidential secretary.
And, somehow or other, seeing him so often, and sometimes being his partner at cards when two
were needed to make up a game, I forgot that I was older than he, and I actually fell in love
with him. You see he has a good heart, Miss Asher; anybody could tell that from his way with
children; and I have noticed that bachelors are often nicer with children than fathers are."

"And he?" asked Olive.

Miss Raleigh laughed a little laugh. "Oh, I did all the loving," she answered. "He never reciprocated
the least little bit, and I often wondered why I adored him as much as I did. He was handsome,
and he was good, and he had excellent taste; he was thoroughly trustworthy in his relations
to the family, and I believe he would be equally so in all relations of life; but all that
did not account for my unconquerable ardor, which was caused by a certain something which you
know, Miss Asher, we can't explain."

Olive tried hard not to allow any emotion to show itself in her face, but she did not altogether
succeed. "And you still--" said she.

"No, I don't," interrupted Miss Raleigh. "I love him no longer. There came a time when all
my fire froze. I discovered that there was--"

"I say, Miss Asher--" it was the voice of Claude Locker.

Olive looked around at him. "Well?" said she.

"Perhaps you have not noticed," said he, "that the tennis ground is now in the shade, and if
you don't mind walking that way--" He said a good deal more which Miss Raleigh did not believe,
understanding the young man thoroughly, and which Olive did not hear. Her mind was very busy
with what she had just heard, which made a great impression on her. She did not know whether
she was affronted, or hurt, or merely startled.

Here was a man who loved her, a man she had loved, and one about whom she had been questioning
herself as to the possibility of her loving him again. And here was a woman, a dyspeptic, unwholesome
spinster, who had just said she had loved him. If Miss Raleigh had loved this man, how could
she, Olive, love him? There was something repugnant about it which she did not attempt to understand.
It went beyond reason. She felt it to be an actual relief to look up at Claude Locker, and
to listen to what he was saying.

"You mean," said she presently, "that you would like Miss Raleigh and me to come with you and
play tennis."

"I did not know Miss Raleigh played," he answered, "but I thought perhaps--"

"Oh, no," said Olive. "I would not think of such a thing. In fact, Miss Raleigh and I are engaged.
We are very busy about some important work."

Mr. Locker gazed at the crocheted nucleus with an air of the loftiest disdain. "Of course,
of course," said he, "but you really oblige me, Miss Asher, to speak very plainly and frankly
and to say that I really do not care about playing tennis, but that I want to speak to you
on a most important subject, which, for reasons that I will explain, must be spoken of immediately.
So, if Miss Raleigh will be kind enough to postpone the little matter you have on hand--"

Olive smiled and shook her head. "No, indeed, sir," she said; "I would not hurt a lady's feelings
in that way, and moreover, I would not allow her to hurt her own feelings. It would hurt your
feelings, Miss Raleigh, wouldn't it, to be sent away like a child who is not wanted?"

"Yes," said the secretary, "I think it would."

Mr. Locker listened in amazement. He had not thought the mature maiden had the nerve to say that.

"Then again," said Olive, "this isn't the time for you to talk business with me, and you should
not disturb me at this hour."

"Oh," said Locker, bringing down the forefinger of his right hand upon the palm of his left,
"that is a point, a very essential point. I voluntarily surrendered the period of discourse
which you assigned to me for a reason which I now believe did not exist, and this is only an
assertion of the rights vested in me by you."

Miss Raleigh listened very attentively to these remarks, but could not imagine what they meant.

Olive looked at him graciously. "Yes," she said, "you are very generous, but your period for
discourse, as you call it, will have to be postponed."

"But it can't be postponed," he answered. "If I could see you alone I could soon explain that
to you. There are certain reasons why I must speak now."

"I can't help it," said Olive. "I am not going to leave Miss Raleigh, and I am sure she does
not want to leave me, so if you are obliged to speak you must speak before her."

Mr. Locker gazed from one to the other of the two ladies who sat before him; each of them wore
a gentle but determined expression. He addressed the secretary.

"Miss Raleigh," said he, "if you understood the reason for my strong desire to speak in private
with Miss Asher, perhaps you would respect it and give me the opportunity I ask for. I am here
to make a proposition of marriage to this lady, and it is absolutely necessary that I make
it without loss of time. Do you desire me to make it in your presence?"

"I should like it very much," said Miss Raleigh.

Mr. Locker gave her a look of despair, and turned to Olive. "Would you permit that?" he asked.

"If it is absolutely necessary," she said, "I suppose I shall have to permit it."

Mr. Locker had the soul of a lion in his somewhat circumscribed body, and he was not to be
recklessly dared to action.

"Very well, then," said he, "I shall proceed as if we were alone, and I hope, Miss Raleigh,
you will at least see fit to consider yourself in a strictly confidential position."

"Indeed I shall," she replied; "not one word shall ever--"

"I hope not," interrupted Claude, "and I will add that if I should ever be accidentally present
when a gentleman is about to propose to you, Miss Raleigh, I shall heap coals of fire upon
your head by instantaneously withdrawing."

The secretary was about to thank him, but Olive interrupted. "Now, Claude Locker," said she,
"what can you possibly have to say to me that you have not said before?"

"A good deal, Miss Asher, a good deal, although I don't wonder you suppose that no man could
say more to you of his undying affection than I have already said. But, since I last spoke
on the subject, I have been greatly impressed by the fact that I have not said enough about
myself; that I have not made you understand me as I really am. I know very well that most people,
and I suppose that at some time you have been among them, look upon me as a very frivolous
young man, and not one to whom the right sort of a girl should give herself in marriage. But
that is a mistake. I am as much to be depended upon as anybody you ever met. My apparently
whimsical aspect is merely the outside--my shell, marked off in queer designs with variegated
colors--but within that shell I am as domestic, as sober, and as surely to be found where I
am expected to be as any turtle. This may seem a queer figure, but it strikes me as a very
good one. When I am wanted I am there. You can always depend upon me."

There was not a smile upon the face of either woman as he spoke. They were listening earnestly,
and with the deepest interest. Miss Raleigh's eyes sparkled, and Olive seemed to be most seriously
considering this new aspect in which Mr. Locker was endeavoring to place himself.

"Perhaps you may think," Claude continued, "that you would not desire turtle-like qualities
in a husband, you who are so bright, so bounding, so much like a hare, but I assure you, that
is just the companion who would suit you. All day you might skip among the flowers, and in
the fields, and wherever you were, you would always know where I was--making a steady bee-line
for home; and you would know that I would be there to welcome you when you arrived."

"That is very pretty!" said Miss Raleigh. And then she quickly added: "Excuse me for making
a remark."

"Now, Miss Asher," continued Locker, "I have tried, very imperfectly, I know, to make you see
me as I really am, and I do hope you can put an end to this suspense which is keeping me in
a nervous tingle. I can not sleep at night, and all day I am thinking what you will say when
you do decide. You need not be afraid to speak out before Miss Raleigh. She is in with us now,
and she can't get out. I would not press you for an answer at this moment, but there are reasons
which I can not say anything about without meddling with other people's business. But my business
with you is the happiness of my life, and I feel that I can not longer endure having it momentarily
jeopardized."

At the conclusion of this speech a faint color actually stole into Miss Raleigh's face, and
she clasped her thin hands in the intensity of her approval.

"Mr. Locker," said Olive, speaking very pleasantly, "if you had come to me to-day and had asked
me for a decision based upon what you had already said to me, I think I might have settled
the matter. But after what you have just told me, I can not answer you now. You give me things
to think about, and I must wait."

"Heavens" exclaimed Mr. Locker, clasping his hands. "Am I not yet to know whether I am to rise
into paradise, or to sink into the infernal regions?"

Olive smiled. "Don't do either, Mr. Locker," she said. "This earth is a very pleasant place.
Stay where you are."

He folded his arms and gazed at her. "It is a pleasant place," said he, "and I am mighty glad
I got in my few remarks before you made your decision. I leave my love with you on approbation,
and you may be sure I shall come to-morrow before luncheon to hear what you say about it."

"I shall expect you," said Olive. And as she spoke her eyes were full of kind consideration.

"Now, that's genuine," said Miss Raleigh, when Locker had departed. "If he had not felt every
word he said he could not have said it before me."

"No doubt you are right," said Olive. "He is very brave. And now you see this new line, which
begins an entirely different kind of stitch!"

In the middle distance Mr. Du Brant still strolled backward and forward, pulverizing his teeth
and swearing in French. He seldom removed his eyes from Miss Asher, but still she sat on that
bench and crocheted, and talked, and talked, and crocheted, with that everlasting Miss Raleigh!
He had seen Locker with her, and he had seen him go; and now he hoped that the woman would
soon depart. Then it would be his chance.

The young Austrian had become most eager to make Olive his wife. He earnestly loved her; and,
beyond that, he had come to see that a marriage with her would be most advantageous to his
prospects. This beautiful and brilliant American girl, familiar with foreign life and foreign
countries, would give him a position in diplomatic society which would be most desirable. She
might not bring him much money; although he believed that all American girls had some money;
but she would bring him favor, distinction, and, most likely, advancement. With such a wife
he would be a welcome envoy at any court. And, besides, he loved her. But, alas, Miss Raleigh
would not go away.

About half an hour after Claude Locker left Olive he encountered Dick Lancaster.

"Well," said he, "I charged. I was not routed, I can't say that I was even repulsed. But I
was obliged to withdraw my forces. I shall go into camp, and renew the attack to-morrow. So,
my friend, you will have to wait. I wish I could say that there is no use of your waiting,
but I am a truthful person and can't do that."

Lancaster was not pleased. "It seems to me," he said, "that you trifle with the most important
affairs of life."

"Trifle!" exclaimed Locker. "Would you call it trifling if I fail, and then to save her from
a worse fate, were to back you up with all my heart and soul?"

Dick could not help smiling. "By a worse fate," he said, "I suppose you mean--"

"The Austrian," interrupted Locker. "Mrs. Easterfield has told me something about him. He may
have a title some day, and he is about as dangerous as they make them. Instead of accusing
me of trifling, you ought to go down on your knees and thank me for still standing between
him and her."

"That is a duty I would like to perform myself," said Dick.

"Perhaps you may have a chance," sighed Locker, "but I most earnestly hope not. Look over there
at that he-nurse. Those children have made him take them walking, and he is just coming back
to the house."

CHAPTER XXII

The Conflicting Serenades.

Mrs. Easterfield worked steadily at her letter, feeling confident all the time that her secretary
was attending conscientiously to the task which had been assigned to her, and which could not
fail to be a most congenial one. One of the greatest joys of Miss Raleigh's life was to interfere
in other people's business; and to do it under approval and with the feeling that it was her
duty was a rare joy.

The letter was to her husband, and Mrs. Easterfield was writing it because she was greatly
troubled, and even frightened. In the indulgence of a good-humored and romantic curiosity to
know whether or not a grown-up young woman would return to a sentimental attachment of her
girlhood, she had brought her husband's secretary to the house with consequences which were
appalling. If this navy girl she had on hand had been a mere flirt, Mrs. Easterfield, an experienced
woman of society, might not have been very much troubled, but Olive seemed to her to be much
more than a flirt; she would trifle until she made up her mind, but when she should come to
a decision Mrs. Easterfield believed she would act fairly and squarely. She wanted to marry;
and, in her heart, Mrs. Easterfield commended her; without a mother; now more than ever without
a father; her only near relative about to marry a woman who was certainly a most undesirable
connection; Olive was surely right in wishing to settle in life. And, if piqued and affronted
by her father's intended marriage, she wished immediately to declare her independence, the
girl could not be blamed. And, from what she had said of Mr. Hemphill, Mrs. Easterfield could
not in her own mind dissent. He was a good young man; he had an excellent position; he fervently
loved Olive; she had loved him, and might do it again. What was there to which she could object?
Only this: it angered and frightened her to think of Olive Asher throwing herself away upon
Rupert Hemphill. So she wrote a very strong letter to her husband, representing to him that
the danger was very great and imminent, and that he was needed at Broadstone just as soon as
he could get there. Business could be set aside; his wife's happiness was at stake; for if
this unfortunate match should be made, it would be her doing, and it would cloud her whole
life. Of herself she did not know what to do, and if she had known, she could not have done
it. But if he came he would not only know everything, but could do anything. This indicated
her general opinion of Mr. Tom Easterfield.

"Now," said she to herself, as she fixed an immediate-delivery stamp upon the letter, "that
ought to bring him here before lunch to-morrow."

When Olive saw fit to go to her room Miss Raleigh felt relieved from guard, and went to Mrs.
Easterfield to report. She told that lady everything that had happened, even including her
own emotions at various points of the interview. The amazed Mrs. Easterfield listened with
the greatest interest.

"I knew Claude Locker was capable of almost any wild proceeding," she said, "but I did not
think he would do that!"

"There is one thing I forgot," said the secretary, "and that is that I promised Mr. Locker
not to mention a word of what happened."

"I am very glad," replied Mrs. Easterfield, "that you remembered that promise after you told
me everything, and not before. You have done admirably so far."

"And if I have any other opportunities of interpolating myself, so to speak," said Miss Raleigh,
"shall I embrace them?"

Mrs. Easterfield laughed. "I don't want you to be too obviously zealous," she answered. "I
think for the present we may relax our efforts to relieve Miss Asher of annoyance." Mrs. Easterfield
believed this. She had faith in Olive; and if that young woman had promised to give Claude
Locker another hearing the next day she did not believe that the girl would give anybody else
a positive answer before that time.

Miss Raleigh went away not altogether satisfied. She did not believe in relaxed vigilance;
for one thing, it was not interesting.

Olive was surprised when she found that Mr. Lancaster was to stay to dinner, and afterward
when she was informed that he had been invited to spend a few days, she reflected. It looked
like some sort of a plan, and what did Mrs. Easterfield mean by it? She knew the lady of the
house had a very good opinion of the young professor, and that might explain the invitation
at this particular moment, but still it did look like a plan, and as Olive had no sympathy
with plans of this sort she determined not to trouble her head about it. And to show her non-concern,
she was very gracious to Mr. Lancaster, and received her reward in an extremely interesting
conversation.

Still Olive reflected, and was not in her usual lively spirits. Mr. Fox said to Mrs. Fox that
it was an abominable shame to allow a crowd of incongruous young men to swarm in upon a country
house party, and interfere seriously with the pleasures of intelligent and self-respecting people.

That night, after Mrs. Easterfield had gone to bed, and before she slept, she heard something
which instantly excited her attention; it was the sound of a guitar, and it came from the lawn
in front of the house. Jumping up, and throwing a dressing-gown about her, she cautiously approached
the open window. But the night was dark, and she could see nothing. Pushing an armchair to
one side of the window, she seated herself, and listened. Words now began to mingle with the
music, and these words were French. Now she understood everything perfectly. Mr. Du Brant was
a musician, and had helped himself to the guitar in the library.

From the position in which she sat Mrs. Easterfield could look upon a second-story window in
a projecting wing of the house, and upon this window, which belonged to Olive's room, and which
was barely perceptible in the gloom, she now fixed her eyes. The song and the thrumming went
on, but no signs of life could be seen in the black square of that open window.

Mrs. Easterfield was not a bad French scholar, and she caught enough of the meaning of the
words to understand that they belonged to a very pretty love song in which the flowers looked
up to the sky to see if it were blue, because they knew if it were the fair one smiled, and
then their tender buds might ope; and, if she smiled, his heart implored that she might smile
on him. There was a second verse, much resembling the first, except that the flowers feared
that clouds might sweep the sky; and they lamented accordingly.

Now, Mrs. Easterfield imagined that she saw something white in the depths of the darkness of
Olive's room, but it did not come to the front, and she was very uncertain about it. Suddenly,
however, something happened about which she could not be in the least uncertain. Above Olive's
room was a chamber appropriated to the use of bachelor visitors, and from the window of this
room now burst upon the night a wild, unearthly chant. It was a song with words but without
music, and the voice in which it was shot out into the darkness was harsh, was shrill, was
insolently blatant. And thus the clamorous singer sang:

    "My angel maid--ahoy!
    If aught should you annoy,
        By act or sound,
        From sky or ground,
        I then pray thee
        To call on me
    My angel maid--ahoy,
    My ange--my ange--l maid
    Ahoy! Ahoy! Ahoy!"

The music of the guitar now ceased, and no French words were heard. No ditty of Latin origin,
be it ever so melodious and fervid, could stand against such a wild storm of Anglo-Saxon vociferation.
Every ahoy rang out as if sea captains were hailing each other in a gale!

"What lungs he has" thought Mrs. Easterfield, as she put her hand over her mouth so that no
one should hear her laugh. At the open window, at which she still steadily gazed, she now felt
sure she saw something white which moved, but it did not come to the front.

A wave of half-smothered objurgation now rolled up from below; it was not to be readily caught,
but its tone indicated rage and disappointment. But the guitar had ceased to sound, and the
French love song was heard no more. A little irrepressible laugh came from somewhere, but who
heard it beside herself Mrs. Easterfield could not know. Then all was still, and the insects
of the night, and the tree frogs, had the stage to themselves.

Early in the morning Miss Raleigh presented herself before Mrs. Easterfield to make a report.
"There was a serenade last night," she said, "not far from Miss Asher's window. In fact, there
were two, but one of them came from Mr. Locker's room, and was simply awful. Mr. Du Brant was
the gentleman who sang from the lawn, and I was very sorry when he felt himself obliged to
stop. I do not think very much of him, but he certainly has a pleasant voice, and plays well
on the guitar. I think he must have been a good deal cut up by being interrupted in that dreadful
way, for he grumbled and growled, and did not go into the house for some time. I am sure he
would have been very glad to fight if any one had come down."

"You mean," said Mrs. Easterfield, "if Mr. Locker had come."

"Well," said the secretary, "if Mr. Hemphill had appeared I have no doubt he would have answered.
Mr. Du Brant seemed to me ready to fight anybody."

"How do you know so much about him?" asked Mrs. Easterfield. "And why did you think of Mr.
Hemphill?"

"Oh, he was looking out of his window," said Miss Raleigh. "He could not see, but he could hear."

"I ask you again," said Mrs. Easterfield, "how do you know all this?"

"Oh, I had not gone to bed, and, at the first sound of the guitar, I slipped on a waterproof
with a hood, and went out. Of course, I wanted to know everything that was happening."

"I had not the least idea you were such an energetic person," remarked Mrs. Easterfield, "and
I think you were entirely too rash. But how about Mr. Lancaster? Do you know if he was listening?"

Miss Raleigh stood silent for a moment, then she exclaimed: "There now, it is too bad! I entirely
forgot him! I have not the slightest idea whether he was asleep or awake, and it would have
been just as easy--"

"Well, you need not regret it," said Mrs. Easterfield. "I think you did quite enough, and if
anything of the kind occurs again I positively forbid you to go out of the house."

"There is one thing we've got to look after," said Miss Raleigh, without heeding the last remark,
"this may result in bloodshed."

"Nonsense," said Mrs. Easterfield; "nothing of that kind is to be feared from the gentlemen
who visit Broadstone."

"Still," said Miss Raleigh, "don't you think it would be well for me to keep an eye on them?"

"Oh, you may keep both eyes on them if you want to," said Mrs. Easterfield. Then she began
to talk about something else, but, although she dismissed the matter so lightly, she was very
glad at heart that she had sent for her husband. Things were getting themselves into unpleasant
complications, and she needed Tom.

There was a certain constraint at the breakfast table. Mr. Fox had heard the serenades, although
his consort had slept soundly through the turmoil; and, while carefully avoiding any reference
to the incidents of the night, he was anxiously hoping that somebody would say something about
them. Mrs. Easterfield saw that Mr. Du Brant was in a bad humor, and she hoped he was angry
enough to announce his early departure. But he contented himself with being angry, and said
nothing about going away.

Mr. Hemphill was serious, and looked often in the direction of Olive. As for Dick Lancaster,
Miss Raleigh, whose eye was fixed upon him whenever it could be spared from the exigencies
of her meal, decided that if there should be a fight he would be one of the fighters; his brow
was dark and his glance was sharp; in fact, she was of the opinion that he glared. Claude Locker
did not come to breakfast until nearly everybody had finished. His dreams had been so pleasant
that he had overslept himself.

In the eyes of Mrs. Easterfield Olive's conduct was positively charming. No one could have
supposed that during the night she had heard anything louder than the ripple of the river.
She talked more to Mr. Du Brant than to any one else, although she managed to draw most of
the others into the conversation; and, with the assistance of the hostess, who gave her most
good-humored help, the talk never flagged, although it did not become of the slightest interest
to any one who engaged in it. They were all thinking about the conflict of serenades, and what
might happen next.

Shortly after breakfast Miss Raleigh came to Mrs. Easterfield. "Mr. Du Brant is with her,"
she said quickly, "and they are walking away. Shall I interpolate?"

"No," said the other with a smile, "you can let them alone. Nothing will happen this morning,
unless, indeed, he should come to ask for a carriage to take him to the station."

Mrs. Easterfield was busy in her garden when Dick Lancaster came to her. "What a wonderfully
determined expression you have!" said she. "You look as if you were going to jump on a street-car
without stopping it!"

"You are right," said he, "I am determined, and I came to tell you so. I can't stand this sort
of thing any longer. I feel like a child who is told he must eat at the second table, and who
can not get his meals until every one else is finished."

"And I suppose," she said, "you feel there will be nothing left for you."

"That is it," he answered, "and I don't want to wait. My soul rebels! I can't stand it!"

"Therefore," she said, "you wish to appear before the meal is ready, and in that case you will
get nothing." He looked at her inquiringly. "I mean," said she, "that if you propose to Miss
Asher now you will be before your time, and she will decline your proposition without the slightest
hesitation."

"I do not quite understand that," said Dick. "Would she decline all others?"

"I am afraid not."

"But why do you except me?" asked Dick. "Surely she is not engaged. I know you would tell me
at once if that were so."

"It is not so," said Mrs. Easterfield.

"Then I shall take my chances. With all this serenading and love-making going on around me
and around the woman I love with all my heart. I can not stand and wait until I am told my
time has come. The intensity and the ardor of my feelings for her give me the right to speak
to her. Unless I know that some one else has stepped in before me and taken the place I crave,
I have decided to speak to her just as soon as I can. But I thought it was due to you to come
first and tell you."

"Mr. Lancaster," said Mrs. Easterfield, speaking very quietly, "if you decide to go to Miss
Asher and ask her to marry you, I know you will do it, for I believe you are a man who keeps
his word to himself, but I assure you that if you do it you will never marry her. So you really
need not bother yourself about going to her; you can simply decide to do it, and that will
be quite sufficient; and you can stay here and hold these long-stemmed dahlias for me as I
cut them."

A troubled wistfulness showed itself upon the young man's face. "You speak so confidently,"
he said, "that I almost feel I ought to believe you. Why do you tell me that I am the only
one of her suitors who would certainly be rejected if he offered himself?"

Mrs. Easterfield dropped the long-stemmed dahlias she had been holding; and, turning her eyes
full upon Lancaster, she said, "Because you are the only one of them toward whom she has no
predilections whatever. More than that, you are the only one toward whom she has a positive
objection. You are the only one who is an intimate friend of her uncle, and who would be likely,
by means of that intimate friendship, to bring her into connection with the woman she hates,
as well as with a relative she despises on account of his intended marriage with that woman."

"All that should not count at all," cried Dick. "In such a matter as this I have nothing to
do with Captain Asher! I stand for myself and speak for myself. What is his intended wife to
me? Or what should she be to her?"

"Of course," said Mrs. Easterfield, "all that would not count at all if Olive Asher loved you.
But you see she doesn't. I have had it from her own lips that her uncle's intended marriage
is, and must always be, an effectual barrier between you and her."

"What" cried Dick. "Have you spoken to her of me? And in that way?"

"Yes," said Mrs. Easterfield, "I have. I did not intend to tell you, but you have forced me
to do it. You see, she is a young woman of extraordinary good sense. She believes she ought
to marry, and she is going to try to make the very best marriage that she possibly can. She
has suitors who have very strong claims upon her consideration--I am not going to tell you
those claims, but I know them. Now, you have no claim--special claim, I mean--but for all this,
I believe, as I have told you before, that you are the man she ought to marry, and I have been
doing everything I can to make her cease considering them, and to consider you. And this is
the way she came to give me her reasons for not considering you at all. Now the state of the
case is plain before you."

Dick bowed his head and fixed his eyes upon the dahlias on the ground.

"Don't tread on the poor things," she said, "and don't despair. All you have to do is to let
me put a curbed bit on you, and for you to consent to wear it for a little while. See," said
she, moving her hands in the air, as if they were engaged upon the bridle of a horse, "I fasten
this chain rather closely, and buckle the ends of the reins in the lowest curb. Now, you must
have a steady hand and a resolute will until the time comes when the curb is no longer needed."

"And do you believe that time will come?" he asked.

"It will come," she said, "when two things happen; when she has reason to love you, and has
no reason to object to you; and, in my opinion, that happy combination may arrive if you act
sensibly."

"But--" said Dick.

At this moment a quick step was heard on the garden-path and they both turned. It was Olive.

"Mr. Lancaster," she cried, "I want you; that is, if Mrs. Easterfield can spare you. We are
making up a game of tennis. Mr. Du Brant and Mr. Hemphill are there, but I can not find Mr.
Locker."

Mrs. Easterfield could spare him, and Dick Lancaster, with the curbed chain pressing him very
hard, walked away with Olive Asher.

CHAPTER XXIII

The Captain and Maria.

When the captain drove into Glenford on the day when his mind had been so much disturbed by
Dick Lancaster's questions regarding a marriage between him and Maria Port, he stopped at no
place of business, he turned not to the right nor to the left, but went directly to the house
of his old friend with whom he had spent the night before.

Mr. Simeon Port was sitting on his front porch, reading his newspaper. He looked up, surprised
to see the captain again so soon.

"Simeon," said the captain, "I want to see Maria. I have something to say to her."

The old man laid down his newspaper. "Serious?" said he.

"Yes, serious," was the answer, "and I want to see her now."

Mr. Port reflected for a moment. "Captain," said he, "do you believe you have thought about
this as much as you ought to?"

"Yes, I have," replied the captain; "I've thought just as much as I ought to. Is she in the house?"

Mr. Port did not answer. "Captain John," said he presently, "Maria isn't young, that's plain
enough, considerin' my age; but she never does seem to me as if she'd growed up. When she was
a girl she had ways of her own, and she could make water bile quick, and now she can make it
bile just as quick as ever she did, and perhaps quicker. She's not much on mindin' the helm,
Captain John, and there're other things about her that wouldn't be attractive to husbands when
they come to find them out. And if I was you I'd take my time."

"That's just what I intend to do," said the captain. "This is my time, and I am going to take it."

Miss Port, who was busy in the back part of the house, heard voices, and now came forward.
She was wiping her hands upon her apron, and one of them she extended to the captain.

"I am glad to see you--John," she said, speaking in a very gentle voice, and hesitating a little
at the last word.

The captain looked at her steadfastly, and then, without taking her hand, he said: "I want
to speak to you by yourself. I'll go into the parlor."

She politely stepped back to let him pass her, and then her father turned quickly to her.

"Did you expect to see him back so soon?" he asked.

She smiled and looked down. "Oh, yes," said she, "I was sure he'd come back very soon."

The old man heaved a sigh, and returned to his paper.

Maria followed the captain. "John," said she, speaking in a low voice, "wouldn't you rather
come into the dinin'-room? He's a little bit hard of hearin', but if you don't want him to
hear anything he'll take in every word of it."

"Maria Port," said the captain, speaking in a strong, upper-deck voice, "what I have to say
I'll say here. I don't want the people in the street to hear me, but if your father chooses
to listen I would rather he did it than not."

She looked at him inquiringly. "Well," she answered, "I suppose he will have to hear it some
time or other, and he might as well hear it now as not. He's all I've got in the world, and
you know as well as I do that I run to tell him everything that happens to me as soon as it
happens. Will you sit down?"

"No," said the captain, "I can speak better standing. Maria Port, I have found out that you
have been trying to make people believe that I am engaged to marry you."

The smile did not leave Maria's face. "Well, ain't you?" said she.

A look of blank amazement appeared on the face of the captain, but it was quickly succeeded
by the blackness of rage. He was about to swear, but restrained himself.

"Engaged to you?" he shouted, forgetting entirely the people in the street; "I'd rather be
engaged to a fin-back shark!"

The smile now left her face. "Oh, thank you very much," she said. "And this is what you meant
by your years of devotion! I held out for a long time, knowing the difference in our ages and
the habits of sailors, and now--just when I make up my mind to give in, to think of my father
and not of myself, and to sacrifice my feelin's so that he might always have one of his old
friends near him, now that he's got too feeble to go out by himself, and at his age you know
as well as I do he ought to have somebody near him besides me, for who can tell what may happen,
or how sudden--you come and tell me you'd rather marry a fish. I suppose you've got somebody
else in your mind, but that don't make no difference to me. I've got no fish to offer you,
but I have myself that you've wanted so long, and which now you've got."

The angry captain opened his mouth to speak; he was about to ejaculate Woman! but his sense
of propriety prevented this. He would not apply such an epithet to any one in the house of
a friend. Wretch rose to his lips, but he would not use even that word; and he contented himself
with: "You! You know just as well as you know you are standing there that I never had the least
idea of marrying you. You know, too, that you have tried to make people think I had, people
here in town and people out at my house, where you came over and over again pretending to want
to talk about your father's health, when it did not need any more talking about than yours
does. You know you have made trouble in my family; that you so disgusted my niece that she
would not stop at my house, which had been the same thing as her home; you sickened my friends;
and made my very servants ashamed of me; and all this because you want to marry a man who now
despises you. I would have despised you long ago if I had seen through your tricks, but I didn't."

There was a smile on Miss Port's face now, but it was not such a smile as that with which she
had greeted the captain; it was a diabolical grin, brightened by malice. "You are perfectly
right," she said; "everybody knows we are engaged to be married, and what they think about
it doesn't matter to me the snap of my finger. The people in town all know it and talk about
it, and what's more, they've talked to me about it. That niece of your'n knows it, and that's
the reason she won't come near you, and I'm sure I'm not sorry for that. As for that old thing
that helps you at the toll-gate, and as for the young man that's spongin' on you, I've no doubt
they've got a mighty poor opinion of you. And I've no doubt they're right. But all that matters
nothin' to me. You're engaged to be married to me; you know it yourself; and everybody knows
it; and what you've got to do is to marry, or pay. You hear what I say, and you know what I'm
goin' to stick to."

It may be well for Captain Asher's reputation that he had no opportunity to answer Miss Port's
remarks. At that instant Mr. Simeon Port appeared at the door which opened from the parlor
on the piazza. He stepped quickly, his actions showing nothing of that decrepitude which his
dutiful daughter had feared would prevent him from seeking the society of his friends. He fixed
his eyes on his daughter and spoke in a loud, strong voice.

"Maria," said he, "go to bed! I've heard what you've been saying, and I'm ashamed of you. I've
been ashamed of you before, but now it's worse than ever. Go to bed, I tell you! And this time,
go!"

There was nothing in the world that Maria Port was afraid of except her father, and of him
personally she had not the slightest dread. But of his dying without leaving her the whole
of his fortune she had an abiding terror, which often kept her awake at night, and which sent
a sickening thrill through her whenever a difficulty arose between her and her parent. She
was quite sure what he would do if she should offend him sufficiently; he would leave her a
small annuity, enough to support her; and the rest of his money would go to several institutions
which she had heard him mention in this connection. If she could have married Captain Asher
she would have felt a good deal safer; it would have taken much provocation to make her father
leave his money out of the family if his old friend had been one of that family.

Now, when she heard her father's voice, and saw his dark eyes glittering at her, she knew she
was in great danger, and the well-known chill ran through her. She made no answer; she cared
not who was present; she thought of nothing but that those eyes must cease to glitter, and
that angry voice must not be heard again. She turned and walked to her room, which was on the
same floor, across the hall.

"And mind you go to bed!" shouted her father. "And do it regular. You're not to make believe
to go to bed, and then get up and walk about as soon as my back is turned. I'm comin' in presently
to see if you've obeyed me."

She answered not, but entered her room, and closed the door after her.

Mr. Port now turned to the captain. "I never could find out," he said, "where Maria got that
mind of her'n. It isn't from my side, for my father and mother was as good people as ever lived,
and it wasn't from her mother, for you knew her, and there wasn't anything of the kind about her."

"No," said Captain Asher, "not the least bit of it."

"It must have been from her grandmother Ellis," said the old man. "I never knew her, for she
died before I was acquainted with the family, but I expect she died of deviltry. That's the
only insight I can get into the reasons for Maria's havin' the mind she's got. But I tell you,
Captain John, you've had a blessed escape! I didn't know she was in the habit of goin' out
to your house so often. She didn't tell me that."

"Simeon," said the captain, "I think I will go now. I have had enough of Maria. I don't suppose
I'll hear from her very soon again."

The old man smiled. "No," said he, "I don't think she'll want to trouble you any more."

Miss Port, whose ear was at the keyhole of her door not twelve feet away, grinned malignantly.

Soon after Captain Asher had gone Mr. Port walked to the door of his daughter's room, gave
a little knock, and then opened the door a little.

"You are in bed, are you?" said he. "Well, that's good for you. Turn down that coverlid and
let me see if you've got your nightclothes on." She obeyed. "Very well," he continued; "now
you stay there until I tell you to get up."

Captain Asher went home, still in a very bad humor. He had ceased to be angry with Maria Port,
he was done with her; and he let her pass out of his mind. But he was angry with other people,
especially with Olive. She had allowed herself to have a most contemptuous opinion of him;
she had treated him shamefully; and as he thought of her his indignation increased instead
of diminishing. And young Lancaster had believed it! And old Jane! It was enough to make a
stone slab angry, and the captain was not a stone slab.

CHAPTER XXIV

Mr. Tom arrives at Broadstone.

After the conclusion of the game of tennis in which Olive and three of her lovers participated,
Claude Locker, returning from a long walk, entered the grounds of Broadstone. He had absented
himself from that hospitable domain for purposes of reflection, and also to avoid the company
of Mr. Du Brant. Not that he was afraid of the diplomat, but because of the important interview
appointed for the latter part of the morning. He very much wished that no unpleasantness of
any kind should occur before the time for that interview.

Having found that he had given himself more time than was necessary for his reflections and
his walk, he had rested in the shade of a tree and had written two poems. One of these was
the serenade which he would have roared out on the night air on a very recent occasion if he
had had time to prepare it. It was, in his opinion, far superior to the impromptu verses of
which he had been obliged to make use, and it pleased him to think that if things should go
well with him after the interview to which he was looking forward, he would read that serenade
to its object, and ask her to substitute it in her memory for the inharmonic lines which he
had used in order to smother the degenerate melody of a foreign lay. The other poem was intended
for use in case his interview should not be successful. But on the way home Mr. Locker experienced
an entire change of mind. He came to believe that it would be unwise for him to arrange to
use either of those poems on that day. For all he knew, Miss Asher might like foreign degenerate
lays, and she might be annoyed that he had interfered with one. He remembered that she had
told him that if he had insisted on an immediate answer to his proposition it would have been
very easy to give it to him. He realized what that meant; and, for all he knew, she might be
quite as ready this morning to act with similar promptness. That Du Brant business might have
settled her mind, and it would therefore be very well for him to be careful about what he did,
and what he asked for.

About half an hour before luncheon, when he neared the house and perceived Miss Asher on the
lawn, it seemed to him very much as if she were looking for him. This he did not like, and
he hurried toward her.

"Miss Asher," said he, "I wish to propose an amendment."

"To what?" asked Olive. "But first tell me where you have been and what you have been doing?
You are covered with dust, and look as hot as if you had been pulling the boat against the
rapids. I have not seen you the whole morning."

"I have been walking," said he, "and thinking. It is dreadful hot work to think. That should
be done only in winter weather."

"It would be a woeful thing to take a cold on the mind," said Olive.

"That is so!" he replied. "That is exactly what I am afraid of this morning, and that is the
reason I want to propose my amendment. I beg most earnestly that you will not make this interview
definitive. I am afraid if you do I may get chills in my mind, soul, and heart from which I
shall never recover. I have an idea that the weather may not be as favorable as it was yesterday
for the unveiling of tender emotions."

"Why so?" asked Olive.

"There are several reasons," returned Mr. Locker. "For one thing, that musical uproar last
night. I have not heard anything about that, and I don't know where I stand."

Olive laughed. "It was splendid," said she. "I liked you a great deal better after that than
I did before."

"Now tell me," he exclaimed hurriedly, "and please lose no time, for here comes a surrey from
the station with a gentleman in it--do you like me enough better to give me a favorable answer,
now, right here?"

"No," said Olive. "I do not feel warranted in being so precipitate as that."

"Then please say nothing on the subject," said Locker. "Please let us drop the whole matter
for to-day. And may I assume that I am at liberty to take it up again to-morrow at this hour?"

"You may," said Olive. "What gentleman is that, do you suppose?"

"I know him," said Locker, "and, fortunately, he is married. He is Mr. Easterfield."

"Here's papa! Here's papa!" shouted the two little girls as they ran out of the front door.

"And papa," said the oldest one, "we want you to tell us a story just as soon as you have brushed
your hair! Mr. Rupert has been telling us stories, but yours are a great deal better."

"Yes," said the other little girl, "he makes all the children too good. They can't be good,
you know, and there's no use trying. We told him so, but he doesn't mind."

There was story-telling after luncheon, but the papa did not tell them, and the children were
sent away. It was Mrs. Easterfield who told the stories, and Mr. Tom was a most interested
listener.

"Well," said he, when she had finished, "this seems to be a somewhat tangled state of affairs."

"It certainly is," she replied, "and I tangled them."

"And you expect me to straighten them?" he asked.

"Of course I do," she replied, "and I expect you to begin by sending Mr. Hemphill away. You
know I could not do it, but I should think it would be easy for you."

"Would you object if I lighted a cigar?" he asked.

"Of course not," she said. "Did you ever hear me object to anything of the kind?"

"No," said he, "but I never have smoked in this room, and I thought perhaps Miss Raleigh might
object when she came in to do your writing."

"My writing!" exclaimed Mrs. Easterfield. "Now don't trifle! This is no time to make fun of
me. Olive may be accepting him this minute."

"It seems to me," said Mr. Easterfield, slowly puffing his cigar, "that it would not be such
a very bad thing if she did. So far as I have been able to judge, he is my favorite of the
claimants. Du Brant and I have met frequently, and if I were a girl I would not want to marry
him. Locker is too little for Miss Asher, and, besides, he is too flighty. Your young professor
may be good enough, but from my limited conversation with him at the table I could not form
much of an opinion as to him one way or another. I have an opinion of Hemphill, and a very
good one. He is a first-class young man, a rising one with prospects, and, more than that,
I think he is the best-looking of the lot."

"Tom," said Mrs. Easterfield, "do you suppose I sent for you to talk such nonsense as that?
Can you imagine that my sense of honor toward Olive's parents would allow me even to consider
a marriage between a high-class girl, such as she is--high-class in every way--to a mere commonplace
private secretary? I don't care what his attributes and merits are; he is commonplace to the
backbone; and he is impossible. If what ought to be a brilliant career ends suddenly in Rupert
Hemphill I shall have Olive on my conscience for the rest of my life."

"That settles it," said Mr. Tom Easterfield; "your conscience, my dear, has not been trained
to carry loads, and I shall not help to put one on it. Hemphill is a good man, but we must
rule him out."

"Yes," said she, "Olive is a great deal more than good. He must be ruled out."

"But I can't send him away this afternoon," Tom continued. "That would put them both on their
mettle, and, ten to one, he would considerately announce his engagement before he left."

"No," said she. "Olive is very sharp, and would resent that. But now that you are here I feel
safe from any immediate rashness on their part."

"You are right," said Mr. Tom. "My very coming will give them pause. And now I want to see
the girl."

"What for?" asked Mrs. Easterfield.

"I want to get acquainted with her. I don't know her yet, and I can't talk to her if I don't
know her."

"Are you going to talk to her about Hemphill?"

"Yes, for one thing," he answered.

"Well," said she, "you will have to be very circumspect. She is both alert, and sensitive."

"Oh, I'll be circumspect enough," he replied. "You may trust me for that."

It was not long after this that Mrs. Easterfield, being engaged in some hospitable duties,
sent Olive to show Mr. Tom the garden, and it was rather a slight to that abode of beauty that
the tour of the rose-lined paths occupied but a very few minutes, when Mr. Easterfield became
tired, and desired to sit down. Having seated themselves on Mrs. Easterfield's favorite bench,
Olive looked up at her companion, and asked:

"Well, sir, what is it you brought me here to say to me?"

Mr. Tom laughed, and so did she.

"If it is anything about the gentlemen who are paying their addresses to me, you may as well
begin at once, for that will save time, and really an introduction is not necessary."

Mr. Easterfield's admiration for this young lady, which had been steadily growing, was not
decreased by this remark. "This girl," said he to himself, "deserves a nimble-witted husband.
Hemphill would never do for her. It seems to me," he said aloud, "that we are already well
enough acquainted for me to proceed with the remarks which you have correctly assumed I came
here to make."

"Yes," said she, "I have always thought that some people are born to become acquainted, and
when they meet they instantly perceive the fact, and the thing is accomplished. They can then
proceed."

"Very well," said he, "we will proceed."

"I suppose," said Olive, "that Mrs. Easterfield has explained everything, and that you agree
with her and with me that it is a sensible thing for a girl in my position to marry, and, having
no one to attend wisely to such a matter for me, that I should endeavor to attend to it myself
as wisely as I can. Also, that a little bit of pique, caused by the fact that I am to have
an old schoolfellow for a stepmother, is excusable."

"And it is this pique which puts you in such a hurry? I did not exactly understand that."

"Yes, it does," said she. "I very much wish to announce my own engagement, if not my marriage,
before any arrangements shall be made which may include me. Do you think me wrong in this?"

"No, I don't," said Mr. Easterfield. "If I were a girl in your place I think I would do the
same thing myself."

Olive's face expressed her gratitude. "And now," said she, "what do you think of the young
men? I feel so well acquainted with you through Mrs. Easterfield that I shall give a great
deal of weight to your opinion. But first let me ask you one thing: After what you have heard
of me do you think I am a flirt?"

Mr. Tom knitted his brows a little, then he smiled, and then he looked out over the flower-beds
without saying anything.

"Don't be afraid to say so if you think so," said she. "You must be perfectly plain and frank
with me, or our acquaintanceship will wither away."

Under the influence of this threat he spoke. "Well," said he, "I should not feel warranted
in calling you a flirt, but it does seem to me that you have been flirting."

"I think you are wrong, Mr. Easterfield," said Olive, speaking very gravely. "I never saw any
one of these young men before I came here except Mr. Hemphill, and he was an entirely different
person when I knew him before, and I have given no one of them any special encouragement. If
Mr. Locker were not such an impetuous young man, I think the others would have been more deliberate,
but as it was easy to see the state of his mind, and as we are all making but a temporary stay
here, these other young men saw that they must act quickly, or not at all. This, while it was
very amusing, was also a little annoying, and I should greatly have preferred slower and more
deliberate movements on the part of these young men. But all my feelings changed when my father's
letter came to me. I was glad then that they had proposed already."

"That is certainly honest," said Mr. Tom.

"Of course it is honest," replied Olive. "I am here to speak honestly if I speak at all. Now,
don't you see that if under these peculiar circumstances one eligible young man had proposed
to me I ought to have considered myself fortunate? Now here are three to choose from. Do you
not agree with me that it is my duty to try to choose the best one of them, and not to discourage
any until I feel very certain about my choice?"

"That is business-like," said Mr. Easterfield; "but do you love any one of them?"

"No, I don't," answered Olive, "except that there is a feeling in that direction in the case
of Mr. Hemphill. I suppose Mrs. Easterfield has told you that when I was a schoolgirl I was
deeply in love with him; and now, when I think of those old times, I believe it would not be
impossible for those old sentiments to return. So there really is a tie between him and me;
even though it be a slight one; which does not exist at all between me and any one of the others."

For a moment neither of them spoke. "That is very bad, young woman," thought Mr. Tom. "A slight
tie like that is apt to grow thick and strong suddenly." But he could not discourse about Mr.
Hemphill; he knew that would be very dangerous. He would have to be considered, however, and
much more seriously than he had supposed.

"Well," said he, "I will tell you this: if I were a young man, unmarried, and on a visit to
Broadstone at this time, I should not like to be treated as you are treating the young men
who are here. It is all very well for a young woman to look after herself and her own interests,
but I should be very sorry to have my fate depend upon the merits of other people. I may not
be correct, but I am afraid I should feel I was being flirted with."

"Well, then," said Olive, giving a quick, forward motion on the bench, "you think I ought to
settle this matter immediately, and relieve myself at once from the imputation of trifling
with earnest affection?"

"Oh, no, no, no!" cried Mrs. Easterfield. "Not at all! Don't do anything rash!"

Olive leaned back on the bench, and laughed heartily. "There is so much excellent advice in
this world," she said, "which is not intended to be used. However, it is valuable all the same.
And now, sir, what is it you would like me to do? Something plain; intended for every-day use."

Mr. Tom leaned forward, his elbows on his knees. "It does not appear to me," he said, "that
you have told me very much I did not know before, for Mrs. Easterfield put the matter very
plainly before me."

"And it does not seem to me," said Olive, "that you have given me any definite counsel, and
I know that is what you came here to do."

"You are mistaken there," he said. "I came here to find out what sort of a girl you are; my
counsels must depend on my discoveries. But there is one thing I want to ask you; you are all
the time talking about three young men. Now, there are four of them here."

"Yes," she answered quickly. "But only three of them have proposed; and, besides, if the other
were to do so, he would have to be set aside for what I may call family reasons. I don't want
to go into particulars because the subject is very painful to me."

For a moment Mr. Tom did not speak. Then, determined to go through with what he had come to
do, which was to make himself acquainted with this girl, he said: "I do not wish to discuss
anything that is painful to you, but Mrs. Easterfield and I are very much disturbed for fear
that in some way your visit to Broadstone created some misunderstanding or disagreeable feeling
between you and your uncle. Now, would you mind telling me whether this is so, or not?"

She looked at him steadily. "There is an unpleasant feeling between me and my uncle, but this
visit has nothing to do with it. And I am going to tell you all about it. I hate to feel so
much alone in the world that I can't talk to anybody about what makes me unhappy. I might have
spoken to Mrs. Easterfield, but she didn't ask me. But you have asked me, and that makes me
feel that I am really better acquainted with you than with her."

This remark pleased Mr. Tom, but he did not think it would be necessary to put it into his
report to his wife. He had promised to be very circumspect; and circumspection should act in
every direction.

"It is very hard for a girl such as I am," she continued, "to be alone in the world, and that
is a very good reason for getting married as soon as I can."

"And for being very careful whom you marry," interrupted Mr. Easterfield.

"Of course," said she, "and I am trying very hard to be that. A little while ago I had a father
with whom I expected to live and be happy, but that dream is over now. And then I thought I
had an uncle who was going to be more of a father to me than my own father had ever been. But
that dream is over, too."

"And why?" asked Mr. Easterfield.

"He is going to marry a woman," said Olive, "that is perfectly horrible, and with whom I could
not live. And the worst of it all is that he never told me a word about it."

As she said this Olive looked very solemn; and Mr. Tom, not knowing on the instant what would
be proper to say, looked solemn also.

"You may think it strange," said she, "that I talk in this way to you, but you came here to
find out what sort of girl I am, and I am perfectly willing to help you do it. Besides, in
a case like this, I would rather talk to a man than to a woman."

Mr. Tom believed her, but he did not know at this stage of the proceedings what it would be
wise to say. He was also fully aware that if he said the wrong thing it would be very bad, indeed.

"Now, you see," said she, "there is another reason why I should marry as soon as possible.
In my case most girls would take up some pursuit which would make them independent, but I don't
like business. I want to be at the head of a household; and, what is more, I want to have something
to do--I mean a great deal to do--with the selection of a husband."

The conversation was taking a direction which frightened Mr. Tom. In the next moment she might
be asking advice about the choice of a husband. It was plain enough that love had nothing to
do with the matter, and Mr. Tom did not wish to act the part of a practical-minded Cupid. "And
now let me ask a favor of you," said he. "Won't you give me time to think over this matter
a little?"

"That is exactly what I say to my suitors," said Olive, smiling.

Mr. Tom smiled also. "But won't you promise me not to do anything definite until I see you
again?" he asked earnestly.

"That is not very unlike what some of my suitors say to me," she replied. "But I will promise
you that when you see me again I shall still be heart-free."

"There can be no doubt of that," Mr. Tom said to himself as they arose to leave the garden.
"And, my young woman, you may deny being a flirt, but you permitted the addresses of two young
men before you were upset by your father's letter. But I think I like flirts. At any rate,
I can not help liking her, and I believe she has got a heart somewhere, and will find it some day."

When Mr. Tom returned to the house he did not find his wife, for that lady was occupied somewhere
in entertaining her guests. Now, although it might have been considered his duty to go and
help her in her hospitable work, he very much preferred to attend to the business which she
had sent for him to do. And walking to the stables, he was soon mounted on a good horse, and
riding away southward on the smooth gray turnpike.

CHAPTER XXV

The Captain and Mr. Tom.

Captain Asher was standing at the door of the tollhouse when he saw Mr. Easterfield approaching.
He recognized him, although he had had but one brief interview with him one day at the toll-gate
some time before. Mr. Easterfield was a man absorbed in business, and the first summer Mrs.
Easterfield was at Broadstone he was in Europe engaged in large and important affairs, and
had not been at the summer home at all. And so far this summer, he had been there but once
before, and then for only a couple of days. Now, as the captain saw the gentleman coming toward
the toll-gate he had no reason for supposing that he would not go through it. Nevertheless,
his mind was disturbed. Any one coming from Broadstone disturbed his mind. He had not quite
decided whether or not to ask any questions concerning the late members of his household, when
the horseman stopped at the gate, and handed him the toll.

"Good morning, captain," said Mr. Easterfield cheerily, for he had heard much in praise of
the toll-gate keeper from his wife.

"Good morning, Mr. Easterfield," said the captain gravely.

"I am glad I do not have to introduce myself," said Mr. Easterfield, "for I am only going through
your gate as far as that tree to tie my horse. Then, if convenient to you, I should like to
have a little talk with you."

The captain's mind, which had been relieved when Mr. Easterfield paid his toll, now sank again.
But he could not say a talk would be inconvenient. "If I had known that you were not going
on," he said, "you need not have paid."

"Like most people in this life," said Mr. Easterfield, "I pay for what I have already done,
and not for what I am going to do. And now have you leisure, sir, for a short conversation?"

The captain looked very glum. He felt not the slightest desire now to ask questions, and still
less desire to be interrogated. However, he was not afraid of anything any one might say to
him; and if a certain subject was broached, he had something to say himself.

"Yes," said he; "do you prefer indoors or out of doors?"

"Out of doors, if it suits," replied the visitor, "for I would like to take a smoke."

"I am with you there," said the captain, as he led the way to the little arbor.

Here Mr. Easterfield lighted a cigar, and the captain a pipe.

"Now, sir," said the latter, when the tobacco in his bowl was in a satisfactory glow, "what
is it you want to talk about?" He spoke as if he were behind entrenchments, and ready for an
attack.

"We have two of your guests with us," answered Mr. Easterfield, "Professor Lancaster, and your
niece."

"Oh," said the captain, evidently relieved. "I thought perhaps you had come to ask questions
about some reports you may have heard in regard to me."

"Not at all, not at all," said Mr. Easterfield. "I would not think of mentioning your private
affairs, about which I have not the slightest right or wish to speak. But as we have apparently
appropriated two of your young people, I think, and Mrs. Easterfield agrees with me, that it
is but right you should be informed as to their health, and what they are doing."

The captain puffed vigorously. "When is Dick Lancaster coming back" he asked.

"I can't say anything about that," replied Mr. Easterfield, "for I am not master of ceremonies.
We would like to keep him as long as we can, but, of course, your claims must be considered."

"I should think so," remarked the captain.

"Professor Lancaster is a remarkably fine young man," said the other, "and as he is a friend
of yours, and as I should like him to be a friend of mine, it would give me pleasure to talk
to you more about him. But I may as well confess that my real object in coming here is to talk
about your niece. Of course, as I said before, it might appear that I have no right to meddle
with your family affairs, but in this case I certainly think I am justified; for, as Mrs. Easterfield
invited the young lady to leave you and to come to her, and as all that has happened to her
has happened at our house, and in consequence of that invitation, I think that you, as her
nearest accessible relative, should be told of what has occurred."

The captain made no answer, but gazed steadily into the face of the speaker.

"Therefore," continued Mr. Easterfield, "I will simply state that my wife and I have very good
reason to believe that your niece is about to engage herself in marriage; and I will only add
that we are very sorry, indeed, that this should have occurred under our roof."

A sudden and curious change came over the face of the captain; a light sparkled in his eye,
and a faint flush, as if of pleasure, was visible under his swarthy skin. He leaned toward
his companion.

"Is it Dick Lancaster?" he asked quickly.

Mr. Easterfield answered gravely: "I wish it were, but I am very sorry to say it is not."

The light went out of the captain's eye. He leaned back on his bench and the little flush in
his cheeks was succeeded by a somber coldness. "Very good," said he; "I don't want to hear
anything more about it, and, what is more, it would not be right for you to tell me, even if
I did want to know. It is none of my business."

"Now, really, Captain Asher," began Mr. Easterfield.

"No, sir," the captain interrupted. "It is none of my business, and I don't want to hear anything
about it. And now, sir, I would like to tell you something. It is something I thought you came
here to ask about, and I did not like it, but now I want to tell you of my own free will, in
confidence. That is to say, I don't want you to speak of it to anybody in your house. I suppose
you have heard something about my intending to marry a woman in town?"

"Yes," said Mr. Easterfield, "I can not deny that I have, but I considered it was entirely
your own affair, and I had not--"

"Of course," interrupted the captain, "and I want to tell you--but I don't want my niece to
hear it as coming from me--that that whole thing is a most abominable lie! That woman has been
trying to make people believe I am going to marry her, and she has made a good many believe
it, but I would rather cut my throat than marry her. But I have told her what I think of her
in a way she can not mistake. And that ends her! I tell you this, Mr. Easterfield, because
I believe you are a good man, and you certainly seem to be a friendly man, and I would like
you to know it. I would have liked very much to tell everybody, especially my own flesh and
blood, but now I assure you, sir, I am too proud to have her know it through me. Let her go
on and marry anybody she pleases, and let her think anything she pleases about me. She has
been satisfied with her own opinion of me without giving me a chance to explain to her, or
to tell her the truth, and now she can stay satisfied with it until somebody else sets her
straight."

"But this is very hard, captain," said Mr. Easterfield; "hard on you, hard on her, and hard
on all of us, I may say."

The captain made no answer to these words, and did not appear to hear them. "I tell you, Mr.
Easterfield," he said presently, "that I did not know until now how much I cared for that girl.
I don't mind saying this to you because you come to me like a friend, and I believe in you.
Yes, sir, I did not know how much I cared for her, and it is pretty hard on me to find out
how little she cares for me."

"You are wrong there," said Mr. Easterfield. "My wife tells me that Miss Asher has frequently
talked to her about you and her life here, and it is certain she has--"

"Oh, that does not make any difference," interrupted the captain. "I am talking about things
as they are now. It was all very well as long as things seemed to be going right, but I believe
in people who stand by you when things seem to be going wrong, and who keep on standing by
you until they know how they are going, and that is exactly what she did not do. Now, there
was Dick Lancaster; he came to me and asked me squarely about that affair. To be sure, I cut
him off short, for it angered me to think that he, or anybody else, should have such an idea
of me, and, besides, it was none of his business. But it should have been her business; she
ought to have made it her business; and, even if the thing had stood differently, I would have
told her exactly how it did stand; and then she could have said to me what she thought about
it, and what she was going to do. But instead of that, she just made up her mind about me,
and away went everything. Yes, sir, everything. I can't tell you the plans I had made for her
and for myself, and, I may say, for Dick Lancaster. If it suited her, I wanted her to marry
him, and if it suited her I wanted to go and live with them in his college town, or any other
place they might want to go. Again and again, after I knew Dick, have I gone over this thing
and planned it out this way, and that way, but always with us three in the middle of everything.
Do you see that?" continued the captain after a slight pause, as he drew from his pocket a
dainty little pearl paper-cutter. "That belongs to her. She used to sit out here, and cut the
leaves of books as she read them. I can see her little hand now as it went sliding along the
edges of the pages. When she went away she left it on the bench, and I took it. And I've kept
it in my pocket to take out when I sit here, and cut books with it when I have 'em. I haven't
many books that ain't cut, but I've sat here and cut 'em till there wasn't any left. And then
I cut a lot of old volumes of Coast Survey Reports. It is a foolish thing for an old man to
do, but then--but then--well, you see, I did it."

There was a choke in the captain's voice as he leaned over to put the paper-cutter in his pocket
and to pick up his pipe, which he had laid on the bench beside him. Mr. Easterfield was touched
and surprised. He would not have supposed the captain to be a man of such tender sentiment.
And he took him at once to his heart. "It is a shame," his thoughts ran, "for this man to be
separated from the niece he so loves. She is a cold-hearted girl, or she does not understand
him. It must not be."

Had he been a woman he would have said all this, but, being a man, he found it difficult to
break the silence which followed the captain's last words. He did not know what to say, although
he had no hesitation in making up his mind what he was going to do about it all. He arose.

"Captain Asher," he said, "I have now told you what I thought you should know, and I must take
my departure. I would not presume for a moment to offer you any advice in regard to your family
affairs, but there is one thing Mrs. Easterfield and I will interfere with, if we can, for
we feel that we have a right to do it, and that is any definite and immediate engagement of
your niece. If she should promise herself in marriage at our house we shall feel that we are
responsible for it, and that, in fact, we brought it about. Whether the match shall seem desirable
to you or not, we do not wish to be answerable for it."

"Oh, I need not be counted in at all," said the captain, who had recovered his composure. "It
is her own affair. I suppose it was the news of her father's intended marriage that put her
in such a hurry."

"You are right," said Mr. Easterfield.

"Just like her" the captain exclaimed. "And I don't blame her. I'm with her there"

When Mr. Tom reached Broadstone he dismounted at the stable, and walked to the house. Nobody
was to be seen on the grounds. It was a warm afternoon when those whose hearts were undisturbed
by the turmoils of love were apt to be napping, and those who were in the tumultuous state
of mind referred to, preferred to separate themselves from each other and the rest of the world
until the cause of their inquietude should consider the heat of the summer day as sufficiently
mitigated for her to appear again among her fellow beings.

Mr. Easterfield did not care to meet any of his guests, and hoped to find his wife in her room,
that he might report, and consult. But, as he approached the house, he saw at an upper window
a female head. It stayed there just long enough for him to see that it was Olive's head; then
it disappeared. When he reached the hall door there stood Olive.

Mr. Tom was a little disappointed. He wanted to see his wife immediately, and then to see Olive.
But he could not say so.

"Well," said the girl, coming down the steps, "it looks as if we had arranged to meet. But
although we didn't, let's take a little walk. I have something I want to say to you."

Mr. Easterfield turned, and walked away from the house. He was a masterful man, and did not
like to have his plans interfered with. Therefore he made a dash, and had the first word. "Miss
Asher," said he, "I am glad to hear anything you have to say, but first you must really listen
to me."

Olive looked at him with surprise. She also was a masterful person, and not accustomed to be
treated in this way. But he gave her no chance.

"Miss Asher," said he, "I have come to you to speak for one of your lovers, the truest, best
lover you ever had, and I believe, ever will have."

Olive looked at him steadfastly, and her face grew hard. "Mr. Easterfield," she said, "this
will not do. I have told you I will not have it. Mrs. Easterfield and you have been very good
and kind, and I have told you everything, but you do not seem to remember one thing I have
said. I will not have anybody forced upon me; no matter if he happens to be an angel from heaven,
or no matter how much better he may be than anybody else on earth. I have my reasons for this
determination. They are good reasons, and, above all, they are my reasons. I don't want you
to think me rude, but if you persist in forcing that gentleman upon my attention, I shall have
to request that the whole subject be dropped between us."

"Who in the name of common sense do you think I am talking about?" exclaimed Mr. Tom. "Do you
think I refer to Mr. Lancaster?"

"I do," she said. "You know you would not come to plead the cause of any one of the others."

He looked down at her half doubtfully, wondering a little how she would take what he was going
to say. "You are mistaken," he said quietly. "I have nothing whatever to say about Mr. Lancaster.
The lover I speak of is your uncle."

Then her face turned red. "Why do you use that expression? Did he send you to say it?"

"Not at all. I came of my own free will. I went to see Captain Asher immediately after I left
you. Perhaps you are thinking that I have no right to intrude in your family affairs, but I
do not mind your thinking that. I had a long talk with your uncle. I found that the uppermost
sentiment of his soul was his love for you. You had come into his life like the break of day.
Every little thing you had owned or touched was dear to him because it had been yours, or you
had used it. All his plans in life had been remade in reference to you."

They had stopped and were standing facing each other. They could not walk and talk as they
were talking.

"Yet, but," she exclaimed, her face pale and her eyes fixed steadfastly upon him, "but what
of that--"

"There are no yets and buts," he exclaimed, half angry with her that she hesitated. "I know
what you were going to say, but that woman you have heard of is nothing to him. He hates her
worse than you hate her. She has imposed upon you; how I know not; but she is an impostor."

At this instant she seized him by the arm. "Mr. Easterfield," she cried, and as she spoke the
tears were running down her cheeks, "please let me have a carriage--something covered! I would
go on my wheel, for that would be quicker, but I don't want anybody to speak to me or see me!
Will you have it brought to the back door, Mr. Easterfield, please? I will run to the house,
and be waiting when it comes."

She did not wait for him to answer. He did not ask her where she was going. He knew very well.
She ran to the house, and he hurried to the stable.

Having given his orders, Mr. Tom went in search of his wife. The moment had arrived when it
was absolutely necessary to let her know what was going on.

He found her in her own room. "Where on earth have you been?" she exclaimed. "I have been looking
everywhere for you."

In as few words as possible he told her where he had been, and what he had done.

"And where are you going now?" she asked.

"I am going to change my coat," said the good Mr. Tom. "After my ride to the toll-gate and
back this jacket is too dusty for me to drive with her."

"Drive with her" exclaimed Mrs. Easterfield. "It will be very well for you to get rid of some
of that dust, but when the carriage comes I will drive with Olive to see her uncle."

And thus it happened that Mr. Tom stayed at home with the house party while the close carriage,
containing his wife and that dear girl, Olive Asher, rolled swiftly southward over the smooth
turnpike road.

CHAPTER XXVI

A Stop at the Toll-gate.

The four lovers at Broadstone walked, and wandered, and waited, after breakfast that morning,
but only one of them knew definitely what he was waiting for, and that was Mr. Locker. He was
waiting for half-past twelve o'clock, when he would join Miss Asher, if she gave him an opportunity;
and he was sure she would give him one, for she was always to be trusted. He intended this
interview to be decisive. It would not do for him to wait any longer; yes or no must be her
word. She had been walking down by the river with the best clothes on the premises, and he
now feared the owner of those clothes more than anybody else. He was a keen-sighted young man,
for otherwise how could he have been a poet, and he assured himself that Miss Asher was taking
Hemphill seriously.

So Mr. Locker determined to charge the works of the enemy that day before luncheon. When the
conflict was over his flag might float high and free or it might lie trampled in the dust,
but the battle should be fought, and no quarter would be asked or given.

As for Mr. Hemphill and Mr. Du Brant, they simply wandered, and waited, and bored the rest
of the company. They did not care to do anything, for that might embarrass them in case Miss
Asher appeared and wished to do something else; they did not want to stay in the house because
she might show herself somewhere out of doors; they did not want to stay on the grounds because
at any moment she might seat herself in the library with a book; above all things, they wanted
to keep away from each other; and their indeterminate peregrinations made sick the souls of
Mr. and Mrs. Fox.

The diplomat did not know what he was going to do when he saw Miss Asher alone; everything
would depend upon surrounding circumstances, for he was quick as well as wary, and could make
up his mind on the instant. But good Rupert Hemphill had not even as much decision of purpose
as this. He had already spent half an hour with the lady of his love, and he had not been very
happy. Delighted that she had permitted him to join her, he had at once begun to speak of the
one great object which dominated his existence, but she had earnestly entreated him not to do so.

"It is such a pity," she had said, "for us never to talk of anything but that. There are so
many things I like to talk about, especially the things of which I read. I am now reading Charles
Lamb--that is, whenever I get a chance--and I don't believe anybody in these days ever does
read the works of that dear old man. There is a complete set of his books in the library, and
they do not look as if they had ever been opened. Did you ever read his little essays on Popular
Fallacies? Some of them are just as true as they can be, although they seem like making fun,
especially the one about the angry man being always in the wrong. I am inclined to side with
the angry man. I know I am generally right when I am angry."

Mr. Hemphill had not read these little essays, nor had he admitted that he had never read anything
else by Mr. Lamb; but he had agreed that it was very common to be both angry and right. Then
Olive had talked to him about other books, and his way had become very rough and exceedingly
thorny, and he had wished he knew how to bring up the subject of some new figures in the German.
But he had not succeeded in doing this. She had been in a bookish mood, and the mood had lasted
until she had left him.

Now he began to think that it would be better for him to give up wandering and waiting and
go into the library and prepare himself for another talk with Olive, but he did not go; she
might see him and suspect his design. He would wait until later. He took some books to his room.

Dick Lancaster wandered and waited, but he was full of a purpose, although it was not exactly
definite; he wanted to find Mrs. Easterfield and ask her to release him from his promise. He
could not remain much longer at Broadstone, and Olive's morning walk with Hemphill had made
him very nervous. She knew that these young men were in love with her, and he had a right to
let her know that he was also. It might be imprudent for him to do this, but he could not see
why it would not be as imprudent at any other time as now. Moreover, there might come no other
time, and he had control of now.

Mrs. Easterfield had not joined her guests because of her anxiety about Olive. Mr. Easterfield
did not appear. For a time he was very particularly engaged in the garden. Mr. Fox grew very
much irritated.

"I tell you, my dear," said he, "every one who comes here makes this place more stupid and
dull. I can't see exactly any reason for it, but these lovers are at the bottom of it. I hate
lovers."

"You should be very glad, my dear," replied Mrs. Fox, "that I was not of your opinion in my
early life."

But things changed for the better after a time. It is true that Mrs. Easterfield and Olive
did not appear, but Mr. Easterfield showed himself, and did it with great advantage. The simple
statement that his wife and Miss Asher had gone to make a call caused a feeling of relief to
spread over the whole party. Until the callers returned there was no reason why they should
not all enjoy themselves, and Mr. Easterfield was there to show them how to do it.

As the Broadstone carriage rolled swiftly on there was not much conversation between its occupants.
To the somewhat sensitive mind of Mrs. Easterfield it seemed that Olive was a little disappointed
at the change of companions, but this may have been a mere fancy. The girl was so wrapped up
in self-concentrated thought that it was not likely that she would have talked much to any
one. Suddenly, however, Olive broke out:

"Mr. Easterfield must be a thoroughly good man" she said.

"He is," assented the other.

"And you have always been entirely satisfied with him?"

"Entirely," was the reply, without a smile.

Now Olive turned her face toward her companion and laid her hand upon her arm. "You ought to
be a happy woman," she said.

"Now, what is this girl thinking of?" asked Mrs. Easterfield to herself. "Is she imagining
that any one of the young fellows who are now besieging her can ever be to her what Tom is
to me? Or is she making an ideal of my husband to the disparagement of her own lovers? Whichever
way she thinks, she would better give up thinking."

But the somewhat sensitive Mrs. Easterfield need not have troubled herself. The girl had already
forgotten the good Mr. Tom, and her mind was intent upon getting to her uncle.

"Will you please ask the man to stop," she said, "before he gets to the gate, and let me out?
Then perhaps you will kindly drive on to the tollhouse and wait for me. I will not keep you
waiting long."

The carriage stopped, and Olive slipped out, and, before Mrs. Easterfield had any idea of what
she was going to do, the girl climbed the rail fence which separated the road from the captain's
pasture field. Between this field and the garden was a picket fence, not very high; and, toward
a point about midway between the little tollhouse and the dwelling, Olive now ran swiftly.
When she had nearly reached the fence she gave a great bound; put one foot on the upper rail
to which the pickets were nailed; and then went over. What would have happened if the sharp
pales had caught her skirts might well be imagined. But nothing happened.

"That was a fine spring" said Mrs. Easterfield to herself. "She has seen him in the house,
and wants to get there before he hears the carriage."

Olive walked quietly through the garden to the house. She knew that her uncle was not at the
gate, for from afar she had seen that the little piazza on which he was wont to sit was empty.
She went noiselessly into the hall, and looked into the parlor. By a window in the back of
the room she saw her uncle writing at a little table. With a rush of air she was at his side
before he knew she was in the room. As he turned his head her arms were around his neck, and
the pen in his hand made a great splotch of ink upon her white summer dress.

"Now, uncle," she exclaimed, looking into his astonished face, "here I am and here I am going
to stay! And if you want to know anything more about it, you will have to wait, for I am not
going to make any explanations now. I am too happy to know that I have a dear uncle left to
me in this world, and to know that we two are going to live together always to want to talk
about whys and wherefores."

"But, Olive" exclaimed the captain.

"There are no buts," she interrupted. "Not a single but, my dear Uncle John! I have come back
to stay with you, and that is all there is about it. Mrs. Easterfield is outside in her carriage,
and I must go and send her away. But don't you come out, Uncle John; I have some things to
say to her, and I will let you know when she is going."

As Olive sped out of the room Captain Asher turned around in his chair and looked after her.
Tears were running down his swarthy cheeks. He did not know how or why it had all happened.
He only knew that Olive was coming back to live with him!

Meantime old Jane was entertaining Mrs. Easterfield at the toll-gate, where no money was paid,
but a great deal of information gained. The old woman had seen Miss Olive run into the house,
and she was elated and excited, and consequently voluble. Mrs. Easterfield got the full account
of the one-sided courtship of the captain and Miss Port. Even the concluding episode of Maria
having been put to bed had somehow reached the ears of old Jane. It is really wonderful how
secret things do become known, for not one of the three actors in that scene would have told
it on any account. But old Jane knew it, and told it with great glee, to Mrs. Easterfield's
intense enjoyment. Then she proceeded to praise Olive for the spirit she had shown under these
trying circumstances; and, in this connection, naturally there came into the recital the spirit
the old woman herself had shown under these same trying circumstances, and how she had got
all ready to leave the minute the nuptial knot was tied and before that Maria Port could reach
the toll-gate, although it was like tearing herself apart to leave the spot where she had lived
so many years. "But," she concluded, "it is all right now. The captain tells me it's all a
lie of her own makin'. She's good at that business, and if lies was salable she'd be rich."

Just as the old woman reached this, what seemed to her unsophisticated mind, impossible business
proposition, Olive appeared. Mrs. Easterfield was surprised to see her so soon, and, to tell
the truth, a little disappointed. She had been greatly interested and amused by the old woman's
rapid tale, which she would not interrupt, but had put aside in her mind several questions
to ask, and one of them was in relation to her husband's late visit to the captain. She had
had no detailed account from him, and she wondered how much this old body knew about it. She
seemed to know pretty much everything. But Olive's appearance put an end to this absorbing
conversation.

"Has you come to stay, dearie?" eagerly asked old Jane, as Olive grasped her hand.

"To be sure I have, Jane! I have come to stay forever!"

"Thank goodness!" exclaimed the old woman. "How the captain will brighten up! But my! I must
go and alter the supper!"

"Mrs. Easterfield," said Olive, when the old woman had departed, "you will have to go back
without me. I can not leave my uncle, and I am going to stay here right along. You must not
think I am ungrateful to you, or unmindful of Mr. Easterfield's great kindness, but this is
my place for the present. Some day I know you will be good enough to let me pay you another visit."

"And what am I to do with all those young men?" asked Mrs. Easterfield mischievously. She would
have added, "And one of them your future husband?" But she remembered the coachman.

Olive laughed. "They will annoy you less when I am not there. If you will be so good as to
ask your maid to pack up my belongings, I will send for my trunk." She glanced at the coachman.
"Would you mind taking a little walk with me along the road?"

"I shall be glad to do so," said Mrs. Easterfield, getting out of the carriage.

"Now, my dear Mrs. Easterfield," said Olive when they were some distance from the toll-gate
and the house, "I am going to ask you to add to all your kindness one more favor for me."

"That has such an ominous sound," said Mrs. Easterfield, "that I am not disposed to promise
beforehand."

"It is about those three young men you mentioned."

"I mentioned no number, and there are four."

"In what I am going to ask of you one of them can be counted out. He is not in the affair.
Only three are in this business. Won't you be so good as to decline them all for me? I know
that you can do it better than I can. You have so much tact. And you must have done the thing
many a time, and I have not done it once. I am very awkward; I don't know how; and, to confess
the truth, I have put myself into a pretty bad fix."

"Upon my word," cried Mrs. Easterfield, "that is a pretty thing for one woman to ask of another!

"I know it is," said Olive, "and I would not ask it of anybody but the truest friend--of no
one but you. But you see how difficult it is for me to attend to it. And it must be done. I
have given up all idea of marrying, I am going to stay here, and when my father comes with
his young lady he will find me settled and fixed, and he and she will have nothing to do with
making plans for me. Now, dear Mrs. Easterfield, I know you will do this favor for me, and
let me say that I wish you would be particularly gentle and pleasant in speaking to Mr. Locker.
I think he is really a very kind and considerate young man. He certainly showed himself that
way. I know you can talk so nicely to him that perhaps he will not mind very much. As for Mr.
Du Brant, you can tell him plainly that I have carefully considered his proposition--and that
is the exact truth--and that I find it will be wise for me not to accept it. He is a man of
affairs, and will understand that I have given him a straightforward, practical answer, and
he will be satisfied. You must not be sharp with Mr. Hemphill, as I know you will be inclined
to be. Please remember that I was once in love with him, and respect my feelings as well as
his. Besides, he is good, and he is in earnest, and he deserves fair treatment. I am sorry
that I have worried you about him, and I will tell you now that I have found out he would not
do at all. I found it out this morning when I was talking to him about books. His mind is neither
broad nor cultivated."

"I could have told you that," said Mrs. Easterfield, "and saved you all the trouble of taking
that walk by the river."

"And then there is one more thing," continued Olive; "it is about Professor Lancaster. I am
sure you will agree with me that it will not do for him to come back here. I am just going
to start housekeeping again. I've got the supper on my mind this minute. You can't imagine
how everything has turned topsy-turvy since I left. I suppose he will be wanting to go North,
anyway. In fact, he told me so."

Mrs. Easterfield laughed. She did not believe that Mr. Lancaster would want to go North, or
West, or East, although South might suit him. But she saw the point of Olive's request; it
would be awkward to have him at the tollhouse.

"Oh, I will take care of him," she said, "and he shall continue his vacation trip just as soon
as Mr. Easterfield and I choose to give him up."

"You see," said Olive in an explanatory way, "I have not anything in the world to do with him,
but I thought he might want to come back to see uncle again. And, really," she added, speaking
with a great deal of earnestness, "I don't want to be bothered with any more young men! And
now I will call uncle. You know I had to say all these things to you immediately."

Mrs. Easterfield walked quickly back to her carriage, but she did not wait to see Captain Asher.
As a hostess it was necessary for her to hurry back home; and as a quick-witted, sensible woman
she saw that it would be well to leave these two happy people to themselves. This was not the
time for them to talk to her. So, when the captain, unwilling to wait any longer, appeared
at the door of the house, these two dear friends had kissed and parted, and the carriage was
speeding away.

On her way home Mrs. Easterfield forgot her slight chagrin at what her husband had not done,
in her joy at what he had accomplished. He had neglected to take her fully into his confidence,
and had acted very much as if he had been a naval commander, who had cut his telegraphic connections
in order not to be embarrassed by orders from the home government. But, on the other hand,
he had saved her from the terrible shock of hearing Olive declare that she had just engaged
herself to Rupert Hemphill. If it had not been for the extraordinary promptness of her good
Tom--a style of action he had acquired in the railroad business--it would have been just as
likely as not that Olive would have accepted that young man before she had had an opportunity
of finding out his want of breadth and cultivation.

CHAPTER XXVII

By Proxy.

About half-past twelve Claude Locker made his appearance in the spacious hall. He looked out
of the front door; he looked out of the back door; he peered into the parlor; he glanced up
the stairway; and then he peeped into the library. He had not seen the lady of the house since
her return, and he was waiting for Olive. This morning his fate was to be positively decided;
he would take a position that would allow of no postponement; he would tell her plainly that
a statement that she was not prepared to give him an answer that day would be considered by
him as a final rejection. She must haul down her flag or he would surrender and present to
her his sword.

Claude Locker saw nothing of Miss Asher, but it was not long before the lady of the house came
down-stairs.

"Oh, Mr. Locker," she exclaimed, "I am so glad to see you! Come into the library, please."

He hesitated a minute. "I beg your pardon," said he, "but I have an appointment--"

"I know that," said she, "and you may be surprised to hear that it is with me and not with
Miss Asher. Come in and I will tell you about it."

Claude Locker actually ran after his hostess into the library, both of his eyes wide open.

"And now," said she, "please sit down, and hear what I have to say."

Locker seated himself on the edge of a chair; he did not feel happy; he suspected something
was wrong.

"Is she sick?" he asked. "Can't she come down?"

"She is very well," was the reply, "but she is not here. She is with her uncle."

"Then I am due at her uncle's house before one o'clock," said he.

"No," she answered, "you are due here."

He fixed upon her a questioning glance.

"Miss Asher," she continued, "has deputed me to give you her answer. She can not come herself,
but she does not forget her agreement with you."

The young man still gazed steadfastly. "If it is to be a favorable decision," said he, "I hope
you will be able to excuse any exuberance of demeanor on my part."

Mrs. Easterfield smiled. "In that case," she said, "I do not suppose I should have been sent
as an envoy."

His brow darkened, and instinctively he struck one hand with the other. "That is exactly what
I expected!" he exclaimed. "The signs all pointed that way. But until this moment, my dear
madam, I hoped. Yes, I had presumed to hope that I might kindle in her heart a little nickering
flame. I had tried to do this, and I had left but one small match head, which I intended to
strike this day. But now I see I had a piece of the wrong end of the match. After this I must
be content forever to stay in the cold."

"I am glad you view the matter so philosophically," said Mrs. Easterfield, "and Olive particularly
desired me to say--"

"Don't call her Olive, if you please," he interrupted. "It is like speaking to me through the
partly open door of paradise, through which I can not enter. Slam it shut, I beg of you, and
talk over the top of the wall."

"Miss Asher wants you to know," continued Mrs. Easterfield, "that while she has decided to
decline your addresses, she is deeply grateful to you for the considerate way in which you
have borne yourself toward her. I know she has a high regard for you, and that she will not
forget your kindness."

Mr. Locker put his hands in his pockets. "Do you know," said he, "as this thing had to be done,
I prefer to have you do it than to have her do it. Well, it is done now! And so am I!"

"You never did truly expect to get her, did you, Mr. Locker?" asked Mrs. Easterfield.

"Never," he answered; "but I do not flinch at what may be impossibilities. Nobody, myself included,
can imagine that I shall rival Keats, and yet I am always trying for it."

"Is it Keats you are aiming at?" she said.

"Yes," he replied; "it does not look like it, does it? But it is."

"And you don't feel disheartened when you fail?" said she.

Mr. Locker took his hands from his pockets, and folded his arms. "Yes, I do," he said; "I feel
as thoroughly disheartened as I do now. But I have one comfort; Keats and Miss Asher dropped
me; I did not drop them. So there is nothing on my conscience. And now tell me, is she going
to take Lancaster? I hope so."

"She could not do that," answered Mrs. Easterfield, "for I know he has not asked her."

"Then he'd better skip around lively and do it," said Mr. Locker, "not only for his own sake,
but for mine. If I should be cast aside for the Hemphill clothes I should have no faith in
humanity. I would give up verse, and I would give up woman."

"Don't be afraid of anything like that," said Mrs. Easterfield, laughing. "It may be somewhat
of a breach of confidence, but I am going to tell you nevertheless; because I think you deserve
it; that I am also deputed to decline the addresses of Mr. Hemphill, and Mr. Du Brant."

"Hurrah!" cried Locker. "Mrs. Easterfield, I envy you; and if you don't feel like performing
the rest of your mission, you can depute it to me. I don't know anything at this moment that
would give me so much joy."

"I would not be so disloyal or so cruel as that," said she. "But I shall not be in a hurry.
I shall let them eat their lunch in peace and hope."

"Not much peace," said he. "Her empty chair will put that to flight. I know how it feels to
look at her empty chair."

"Then you really love her?" said Mrs. Easterfield, much moved.

"With every fiber," said he.

Mrs. Easterfield found herself much embarrassed at the luncheon table. She had made her husband
understand the state of affairs, but had not had time to enter into particulars with him, and
she did not find it easy satisfactorily to explain to the company the absence of Miss Asher
without calling forth embarrassing questions as to her return, and she wished carefully to
avoid telling them that her guest was not coming back for the present. If she made this known
then she feared there might be a scene at the table.

Mr. Hemphill turned pale when, that afternoon, his hostess, in an exceedingly clear and plain
manner, made known to him his fate. For a few moments he did not speak. Then he said very quietly:
"If she had not, of her own accord, told me that she had once loved me, I should never have
dared to say anything like that to her."

"I do not think you need any excuse, Mr. Hemphill," said Mrs. Easterfield. "In fact, if you
loved her, I do not see how you could help speaking after what she herself said to you."

"That is true," he replied. "And I love her with all my heart!"

"She ought never to have told you of that girlish fancy," said his hostess. "It was putting
you in a very embarrassing position, and I am bound to say to you, Mr. Hemphill, that I also
am very much to blame. Knowing all this, as I did, I should not have allowed you to meet her."

"Oh, don't say that!" exclaimed Mr. Hemphill. "Don't say that! Not for the world would I give
up the memory of hearing her say she once loved me! I don't care how many years ago it was.
I am glad you let me come here. I am glad she told me. I shall never forget the happiness I
have had in this house. And now, Mrs. Easterfield, let me ask you one thing--"

At this moment Mrs. Easterfield, who was facing the door, saw her husband enter the hall, and
by his manner she knew he was looking for her.

"Excuse me," she said to Hemphill, "I will be back in an instant."

And she ran out. "Tom," she cried, "you must go away. I can not see you now. I am very busy
declining the addresses of a suitor, and can not be interrupted."

Mr. Tom looked at her in surprise, although it was not often Mrs. Easterfield could surprise
him. He saw that she was very much in earnest.

"Well," said he, "if you are sure you are going to decline him I won't interrupt you. And when
you have sealed his fate you will find me in my room. I want particularly to see you."

Mrs. Easterfield went back to the library and Hemphill continued: "You need not answer if you
do not think it is right," said he, "but do you believe at any time she thought seriously of me?"

Mrs. Easterfield smiled as she answered: "Now, you see the advantage of an agent in such matters
as this. You could not have asked her that question, or if you did she would not answer you.
And now I am going to tell you that she did have some serious thought of you. Whatever encouragement
she gave you, she treated you fairly. She is a very practical young woman--"

"Excuse me," said Hemphill hurriedly, "but if you please, I would rather you did not tell me
anything more. Sometimes it is not well to try to know too much. I can't talk now, Mrs. Easterfield,
for I am dreadfully cut up, but at the same time I am wonderfully proud. I don't know that
you can understand this."

"Yes, I can," she said; "I understand it perfectly."

"You are very kind," he said. As he was about to leave the room he stopped and turned to Mrs.
Easterfield. "Is she going to marry Professor Lancaster?" he asked.

"Really, Mr. Hemphill," she replied, "I can not say anything about that. I do not know any
more than you do."

"Well, I hope she may," he said. "It would be a burning shame if she were to accept that Austrian;
and as for the other little man, he is too ugly. You must excuse me for speaking of your friends
in this way, Mrs. Easterfield, but really I should feel dreadfully if I thought I had been
set aside for such a queer customer as he is."

Mrs. Easterfield did not laugh then; but when Hemphill had gone, and she had joined her husband,
they had a good time together.

"And so they all recommend Lancaster," said he.

"So far," she answered; "but I have yet to hear what Mr. Du Brant has to say."

"I think you have had enough of this discarding business," said Mr. Tom. "You would better
leave Du Brant to me."

"Oh, no," said she; "I promised Olive. And, besides, I think I like it."

"I believe you do," said Mr. Tom. "And now I want to say something important. It is not right
that Broadstone should be given up entirely to the affairs of Miss Asher and her lovers. I
think, for instance, that our friend Fox looks very much dissatisfied."

"That is because Olive is not here," she replied.

"Not only that," he answered. "He loses her, and does not get anything else in her place. Now,
we must make this house lively, as it ought to be. Let Du Brant off for to-day and let us make
up a party to go out on the river. We will take two boats, and have some of the men to do the
rowing. Postpone dinner so we can have a long afternoon."

Mr. Du Brant did not go on the river excursion. He had some letters to write, and begged to
be excused. He had not asked when Miss Asher was expected back, or anything about her return.
He did not understand the state of affairs, and was afraid he might receive some misleading
information. But if she should come that afternoon or the next day he determined to be on the
spot. After that he might not be able to remain at Broadstone, and it would be a glorious opportunity
for him if she should come back that afternoon.

It was twilight when the boating party returned. Under the genial influence of Mr. Tom and
his wife they had all enjoyed themselves as much as it was possible for them to do so without
Olive.

When Claude Locker, a little behind the others, reached the top of the hill he perceived, not
far away, Mr. Du Brant strolling. These two had not spoken since the night of the interrupted
serenade. Each of them had desired to avoid words or actions which might disturb the peace
of this hospitable home, and consequently had very successfully succeeded in avoiding each
other. But now Mr. Locker walked straight up to the secretary of legation, holding out his hand.

"Now, Mr. Du Brant," said he, "since we are both in the same boat, let us shake hands and let
bygones be bygones."

But the young Austrian did not take the proffered hand. For a moment he looked as though he
were about to turn away without taking any notice of Locker, but he had not the strength of
mind to do this. He turned and remarked with a scowl:

"What do you mean by same boat? I have nothing to do with you on the water or on the land!"

Mr. Locker shrugged his shoulders. "So you have not been told," said he.

"Told!" exclaimed Du Brant, now very much interested. "Told what?"

"That you will have to find out," said the other. "It is not my business to tell you. But I
don't mind saying that as I have been told I thought perhaps you might have been."

"Told what?" exclaimed Mr. Du Brant again, stepping up closer to the other.

"Don't shout so," said Locker; "they will think we are quarreling. Didn't I say I am not the
person to tell you anything, and if you did not understand me I will say it again."

For some seconds the Austrian looked steadily at his companion. Then he said, "Have you been
refused by Miss Asher?"

"Well," said Locker with a sigh, "as that is my business, I suppose I can talk about it if
I want to. Yes, I have."

Again Du Brant was silent for a time. "Did she tell you herself?" he asked.

"No, she did not," was the answer. "She kindly sent me word by Mrs. Easterfield. I suppose
your turn has not come yet. I was at the head of the list." And, fearing that if he stayed
longer he might say too much, Mr. Locker walked slowly away, whistling disjointedly as he went.

That evening Mrs. Easterfield discovered that she had been deprived of the anticipated pleasure
of conveying to Mr. Du Brant the message which Olive had sent him. That gentleman, unusually
polite and soft-spoken, found her by herself, and thus accosted her: "You must excuse me, madam,
for speaking upon a certain subject without permission from you, but I have reason to believe
that you are the bearer of a message to me from Miss Asher."

"How in the world did you find that out?" she asked.

"It was the--Locker," he answered. "I do not think it was his intention to inform me fully;
he is not a master of words and expressions; he is a little blundering; but, from what he said,
I supposed you were kind enough to be the bearer of such a message."

"Yes," said Mrs. Easterfield; "not being able to be here herself, Miss Asher requested me to
say to you that she must decline--"

"Excuse me, madam," he interrupted, "but it is I who decline. I bear toward you, madam, the
greatest homage and respect, but what I had the honor to say to Miss Asher I said to her alone,
and it is only from her that it is possible for me to receive an answer. Therefore, madam,
it is absolutely necessary that I decline to be a party to the interview you so graciously
propose. It breaks my heart, my dear madam, even to seem unwilling to listen to anything you
might deign to say to me, but in this case I must be firm, I must decline. Can you pardon me,
dear madam, for speaking as I have been obliged to speak?"

"Oh, of course," said Mrs. Easterfield. "And really, since you know so much, it is not necessary
for me to tell you anything more."

"Ah," said the diplomat, with a little bow and an incredulous expression, as if the lady could
have no idea what he might yet know, "I am so much obliged to you! I am so thankful!"

CHAPTER XXVIII

Here we go! Lovers Three!

The three discarded lovers of Broadstone--all discarded, although one of them would not admit
it--would have departed the next day had not that day been Sunday, when there were no convenient
trains. Mr. Du Brant was due in Washington; Mr. Hemphill was needed very much at his desk,
especially since Mr. Easterfield had decided to spend a few days with his wife; and Claude
Locker wanted to go. When he had finished the thing he happened to be doing it was his habit
immediately to begin something else. All was at an end between him and Miss Asher. He acknowledged
this, and he did not wish to stay at Broadstone. But, as it could not be helped, they all stayed
over Sunday.

Mr. Easterfield planned an early afternoon expedition to a mission church in the mountains;
it would be a novel experience, and a delightful trip, and everybody must go.

In the course of the morning Mr. Du Brant strolled in the eastern parts of the grounds, and
Mr. Locker strolled over that portion of the lawn which lay to the west. Mr. Du Brant did not
meet with any one with whom he cared to talk, but Mr. Locker was fortunate enough to meet Miss
Raleigh.

"I am glad to see you," said he; "you are the person above all other persons I wish to talk to."

"It delights me to hear that," said the lady, her face showing that she spoke the truth.

"Let us go over there and sit down," said he. "Now, then," he continued, "you were present,
Miss Raleigh, at a very peculiar moment in my life, a momentous moment, I may say. You enjoyed
a privilege--if you consider it such--not vouchsafed to many mortals."

"I did consider it a privilege, you may be sure," exclaimed Miss Raleigh, "and I value it.
You do not know how highly I value it!"

"You heard me offer myself, body and soul, to the lady I loved. You were taken into our confidence,
you saw me laid upon the table--"

"Oh, dreadful!" cried the lady. "Don't put it that way."

"Well, then," said he, "you saw me postponed for future consideration. You promised you would
regard everything you heard as confidential; by so doing you enabled me to speak when otherwise
I might not have dared to do so. I am deeply grateful to you; and, as you already know so much
about my hopes and my aspirations, I think it right you should know all there is to know."

The conscience of Miss Raleigh stirred itself very vigorously within her, and her voice was
much subdued as she said:

"I am sure you are very good."

"Well, then," said Locker, "the proposal you heard me make has been declined. I am discarded;
and not directly in a face-to-face interview, but through another by a message. It would have
been inconvenient for Miss Asher personally to communicate the intelligence, so as Mrs. Easterfield
was coming this way she kindly consented to convey the intelligence."

"I declare," exclaimed Miss Raleigh, "I had not heard of that! Mrs. Easterfield made me her
confidant in the early stages of this affair, or I should say, these affairs. But she has not
told me that."

"She will doubtless give herself that pleasure later," said Locker.

"No," said she, "she will not think any more about it. I am of no further use. And may I ask
if you know anything about the two other gentlemen?"

"Both turned down," said Locker.

"I might have supposed that," answered the lady; "for if Miss Asher would not take you she
certainly would not be content with either of them."

"With all my heart I thank you," said Locker warmly. "Such words are welcome to a wounded heart."

For a moment Miss Raleigh was silent, then she remarked, "It is very hard to be discarded."

"You are right there!" exclaimed Locker. "But how do you happen to know anything about it?"

"I have been discarded myself," she answered.

The larger eye of Mr. Locker grew still larger, the other endeavored to emulate its companion's
size; and his mouth became a rounded opening. "Discarded?" he cried.

"Yes," said she.

The countenance of the young man was now bright with interest and curiosity. "I don't suppose
it would be right to ask you," said he, "even although I have taken you so completely into
my confidence--but, never mind. Don't think of it. Of course, I would not propose such a question."

