There we watched, Berna and I, lying in the snow that melts all around us in the fierce, scorching
glare. Through the lurid rift of smoke I can see the friendly stars. Against that curtain of
blaze, strangely beautiful in its sinuous strength, I watch the black silhouettes of men running
hither and thither like rats, gutting the houses, looting the stores, tearing the hearts out
of the homes. The fire seems a great bird, and from its nest of furnace heat it spreads its
flapping wings over the city.

Yes, there is no hope. The gold-born city is doomed. From where I lie the scene is one long
vista of blazing gables, ribs and rafters hugged by tawny arms of fire. Squat cabins swirling
in mad eddies of flame; hotels, dance-halls, brothels swathed and smothered in flame-rent blankets
of swirling smoke. There is no hope. The fire is a vast avenger, and before its wrath the iniquity
of the tenderloin is swept away. That flimsy hive of humanity, with its sins and secrets and
sorrows, goes up in smoke and ashes to the silent stars.

The gold-born city is doomed. Yet, as I lay there, it seemed to me like a judgment, and that
from its ruins would arise a new city, clean, upright, incorruptible. Yes, the gold-camp would
find itself. Even as the gold, must it pass through the furnace to be made clean. And from
the site where in the olden days the men who toiled for the gold were robbed by every device
of human guile, a new city would come to be--a great city, proud and prosperous, beloved of
homing hearts, and blessed in its purity and peace.

"Beloved," I sighed through a gathering mist of consciousness. I felt some hot tears falling
on my face. I felt a kiss seal my lips. I felt a breathing in my ear.

"Oh, my dear, my dear!" she said. "I've only brought you sorrow and pain, but you've brought
me love, that love that is a dazzling light, beside which the sunshine is as darkness."

"Berna!" I raised myself; I put out my arms to clasp her. They clasped the empty air. Wildly,
wildly I looked around. She was gone!

"Berna!" Again I cried, but there was no reply. I was alone, alone. Then a great weakness came
over me....

I never saw her again.

THE LAST

It is finished. I have written here the story of my life, or of that portion of it which means
everything to me, for the rest means nothing. Now that it is done, I too have done, so I sit
me down and wait. For what am I waiting? A divine miracle perhaps.

Somehow I feel I will see her again, somehow, somewhere. Surely God would not reveal to us
the shining light of the Great Reality only to plunge us again into outer darkness? Love cannot
be in vain. I will not believe it. Somehow, somewhere!

So in the glow of the great peat fire I sit me down and wait, and the faith grows in me that
she will come to me again; that I will feel the soft caress of her hand upon my pillow, that
I will hear her voice all tuned to tenderness, that I will see through my tear-blinded eyes
her sweet compassionate face. Somehow, somewhere!

With the aid of my crutch I unlatch one of the long windows and step out onto the terrace.
I peer through the darkness and once more I have a sense of that land of imperious vastitudes
so unfathomably lonely. With an unspeakable longing in my heart, I try to pierce the shadows
that surround me. From the cavernous dark the snowflakes sting my face, but the great night
seems good to me, and I sink into a garden seat. Oh, I am tired, tired....

I am waiting, waiting. I close my eyes and wait. I know she will come. The snow is covering
me. White as a statue, I sit and wait.

       *       *       *       *       *

