How poor Lady Eustace was protected, and, at the same time, made miserable by the energy and
unrestrained language of one of her own servants, Andrew Gowran by name, it hardly concerns
us now to inquire. Mr. Emilius did not succeed in effecting an entrance; but he remained for
some time in the neighbourhood, and had notices served on the tenants in regard to the rents,
which puzzled the poor folk round Portray Castle very much. After a while Lady Eustace, finding
that her peace and comfort imperatively demanded that she should prove the allegations which
she had made, fled again from Portray Castle to London, and threw herself into the hands of
the Bonteens. This took place just as Mr. Bonteen's hopes in regard to the Chancellorship of
the Exchequer were beginning to soar high, and when his hands were very full of business. But
with that energy for which he was so conspicuous, Mr. Bonteen had made a visit to Bohemia during
his short Christmas holidays, and had there set people to work. When at Prague he had, he thought,
very nearly unravelled the secret himself. He had found the woman whom he believed to be Mrs.
Emilius, and who was now living somewhat merrily in Prague under another name. She acknowledged
that in old days, when they were both young, she had been acquainted with a certain Yosef Mealyus,
at a time in which he had been in the employment of a Jewish moneylender in the city; but,--as
she declared,--she had never been married to him. Mr. Bonteen learned also that the gentleman
now known as Mr. Joseph Emilius of the London Chapel had been known in his own country as Yosef
Mealyus, the name which had been borne by the very respectable Jew who was his father. Then
Mr. Bonteen had returned home, and, as we all know, had become engaged in matters of deeper
import than even the deliverance of Lady Eustace from her thraldom.

Mr. Emilius made no attempt to obtain the person of his wife while she was under Mr. Bonteen's
custody, but he did renew his offer to compromise. If the estate could not afford to give him
the two thousand a year which he had first demanded, he would take fifteen hundred. He explained
all this personally to Mr. Bonteen, who condescended to see him. He was very eager to make
Mr. Bonteen understand how bad even then would be his condition. Mr. Bonteen was, of course,
aware that he would have to pay very heavily for insuring his wife's life. He was piteous,
argumentative, and at first gentle; but when Mr. Bonteen somewhat rashly told him that the
evidence of a former marriage and of the present existence of the former wife would certainly
be forthcoming, he defied Mr. Bonteen and his evidence,--and swore that if his claims were
not satisfied, he would make use of the power which the English law gave him for the recovery
of his wife's person. And as to her property,--it was his, not hers. From this time forward
if she wanted to separate herself from him she must ask him for an allowance. Now, it certainly
was the case that Lady Eustace had married the man without any sufficient precaution as to
keeping her money in her own hands, and Mr. Emilius had insisted that the rents of the property
which was hers for her life should be paid to him, and on his receipt only. The poor tenants
had been noticed this way and noticed that till they had begun to doubt whether their safest
course would not be to keep their rents in their own hands. But lately the lawyers of the Eustace
family,--who were not, indeed, very fond of Lady Eustace personally,--came forward for the
sake of the property, and guaranteed the tenants against all proceedings until the question
of the legality of the marriage should be settled. So Mr. Emilius,--or the Reverend Mealyus,
as everybody now called him,--went to law; and Lady Eustace went to law; and the Eustace family
went to law;--but still, as yet, no evidence was forthcoming sufficient to enable Mr. Bonteen,
as the lady's friend, to put the gentleman into prison.

It was said for a while that Mealyus had absconded. After his interview with Mr. Bonteen he
certainly did leave England and made a journey to Prague. It was thought that he would not
return, and that Lady Eustace would be obliged to carry on the trial, which was to liberate
her and her property, in his absence. She was told that the very fact of his absence would
go far with a jury, and she was glad to be freed from his presence in England. But he did return,
declaring aloud that he would have his rights. His wife should be made to put herself into
his hands, and he would obtain possession of the income which was his own. People then began
to doubt. It was known that a very clever lawyer's clerk had been sent to Prague to complete
the work there which Mr. Bonteen had commenced. But the clerk did not come back as soon as
was expected, and news arrived that he had been taken ill. There was a rumour that he had been
poisoned at his hotel; but, as the man was not said to be dead, people hardly believed the
rumour. It became necessary, however, to send another lawyer's clerk, and the matter was gradually
progressing to a very interesting complication.

Mr. Bonteen, to tell the truth, was becoming sick of it. When Emilius, or Mealyus, was supposed
to have absconded, Lady Eustace left Mr. Bonteen's house, and located herself at one of the
large London hotels; but when the man came back, bolder than ever, she again betook herself
to the shelter of Mr. Bonteen's roof. She expressed the most lavish affection for Mrs. Bonteen,
and professed to regard Mr. Bonteen as almost a political god, declaring her conviction that
he, and he alone, as Prime Minister, could save the country, and became very loud in her wrath
when he was robbed of his seat in the Cabinet. Lizzie Eustace, as her ladyship had always been
called, was a clever, pretty, coaxing little woman, who knew how to make the most of her advantages.
She had not been very wise in her life, having lost the friends who would have been truest
to her, and confided in persons who had greatly injured her. She was neither true of heart
or tongue, nor affectionate, nor even honest. But she was engaging; she could flatter; and
could assume a reverential admiration which was very foreign to her real character. In these
days she almost worshipped Mr. Bonteen, and could never be happy except in the presence of
her dearest darling friend Mrs. Bonteen. Mr. Bonteen was tired of her, and Mrs. Bonteen was
becoming almost sick of the constant kisses with which she was greeted; but Lizzie Eustace
had got hold of them, and they could not turn her off.

"You saw The People's Banner, Mrs. Bonteen, on Monday?" Lady Eustace had been reading the paper
in her friend's drawing-room. "They seem to think that Mr. Bonteen must be Prime Minister before
long."

"I don't think he expects that, my dear."

"Why not? Everybody says The People's Banner is the cleverest paper we have now. I always hated
the very name of that Phineas Finn."

"Did you know him?"

"Not exactly. He was gone before my time; but poor Lord Fawn used to talk of him. He was one
of those conceited Irish upstarts that are never good for anything."

"Very handsome, you know," said Mrs. Bonteen.

"Was he? I have heard it said that a good many ladies admired him."

"It was quite absurd; with Lady Laura Kennedy it was worse than absurd. And there was Lady
Glencora, and Violet Effingham, who married Lady Laura's brother, and that Madame Goesler,
whom I hate,--and ever so many others."

"And is it true that it was he who got Mr. Bonteen so shamefully used?"

"It was his faction."

"I do so hate that kind of thing," said Lady Eustace, with righteous indignation; "I used to
hear a great deal about Government and all that when the affair was on between me and poor
Lord Fawn, and that kind of dishonesty always disgusted me. I don't know that I think so much
of Mr. Gresham after all."

"He is a very weak man."

"His conduct to Mr. Bonteen has been outrageous; and if he has done it just because that Duchess
of Omnium has told him, I really do think that he is not fit to rule the nation. As for Mr.
Phineas Finn, it is dreadful to think that a creature like that should be able to interfere
with such a man as Mr. Bonteen."

This was on Wednesday afternoon,--the day on which members of Parliament dine out,--and at
that moment Mr. Bonteen entered the drawing-room, having left the House for his half-holiday
at six o'clock. Lady Eustace got up, and gave him her hand, and smiled upon him as though he
were indeed her god. "You look so tired and so worried, Mr. Bonteen."

"Worried;--I should think so."

"Is there anything fresh?" asked his wife.

"That fellow Finn is spreading all manner of lies about me."

"What lies, Mr. Bonteen?" asked Lady Eustace. "Not new lies, I hope."

"It all comes from Carlton Terrace." The reader may perhaps remember that the young Duchess
of Omnium lived in Carlton Terrace. "I can trace it all there. I won't stand it if it goes
on like this. A clique of stupid women to take up the cudgels for a coal-heaving sort of fellow
like that, and sting one like a lot of hornets! Would you believe it?--the Duke almost refused
to speak to me just now--a man for whom I have been working like a slave for the last twelve
months!"

"I would not stand it," said Lady Eustace.

"By the bye, Lady Eustace, we have had news from Prague."

"What news?" said she, clasping her hands.

"That fellow Pratt we sent out is dead."

"No!"

"Not a doubt but what he was poisoned; but they seem to think that nothing can be proved. Coulson
is on his way out, and I shouldn't wonder if they served him the same."

"And it might have been you!" said Lady Eustace, taking hold of her friend's arm with almost
frantic affection.

Yes, indeed. It might have been the lot of Mr. Bonteen to have died at Prague--to have been
poisoned by the machinations of the former Mrs. Mealyus, if such really had been the fortune
of the unfortunate Mr. Pratt. For he had been quite as busy at Prague as his successor in the
work. He had found out much, though not everything. It certainly had been believed that Yosef
Mealyus was a married man, but he had brought the woman with him to Prague, and had certainly
not married her in the city. She was believed to have come from Cracow, and Mr. Bonteen's zeal
on behalf of his friend had not been sufficient to carry him so far East. But he had learned
from various sources that the man and woman had been supposed to be married,--that she had
borne the man's name, and that he had taken upon himself authority as her husband. There had
been written communications with Cracow, and information was received that a man of the name
of Yosef Mealyus had been married to a Jewess in that town. But this had been twenty years
ago, and Mr. Emilius professed himself to be only thirty-five years old, and had in his possession
a document from his synagogue professing to give a record of his birth, proving such to be
his age. It was also ascertained that Mealyus was a name common at Cracow, and that there were
very many of the family in Galicia. Altogether the case was full of difficulty, but it was
thought that Mr. Bonteen's evidence would be sufficient to save the property from the hands
of the cormorant, at any rate till such time as better evidence of the first marriage could
be obtained. It had been hoped that when the man went away he would not return; but he had
returned, and it was now resolved that no terms should be kept with him and no payment offered
to him. The house at Portray was kept barred, and the servants were ordered not to admit him.
No money was to be paid to him, and he was to be left to take any proceedings at law which
he might please,--while his adversaries were proceeding against him with all the weapons at
their disposal. In the meantime his chapel was of course deserted, and the unfortunate man
was left penniless in the world.

Various opinions prevailed as to Mr. Bonteen's conduct in the matter. Some people remembered
that during the last autumn he and his wife had stayed three months at Portray Castle, and
declared that the friendship between them and Lady Eustace had been very useful. Of these malicious
people it seemed to be, moreover, the opinion that the connection might become even more useful
if Mr. Emilius could be discharged. It was true that Mrs. Bonteen had borrowed a little money
from Lady Eustace, but of this her husband knew nothing till the Jew in his wrath made the
thing public. After all it had only been a poor £25, and the money had been repaid before Mr.
Bonteen took his journey to Prague. Mr. Bonteen was, however, unable to deny that the cost
of that journey was defrayed by Lady Eustace, and it was thought mean in a man aspiring to
be Chancellor of the Exchequer to have his travelling expenses paid for him by a lady. Many,
however, were of opinion that Mr. Bonteen had been almost romantic in his friendship, and that
the bright eyes of Lady Eustace had produced upon this dragon of business the wonderful effect
that was noticed. Be that as it may, now, in the terrible distress of his mind at the political
aspect of the times, he had become almost sick of Lady Eustace, and would gladly have sent
her away from his house had he known how to do so without incurring censure.

CHAPTER XLVI

The Quarrel

On that Wednesday evening Phineas Finn was at The Universe. He dined at the house of Madame
Goesler, and went from thence to the club in better spirits than he had known for some weeks
past. The Duke and Duchess had been at Madame Goesler's, and Lord and Lady Chiltern, who were
now up in town, with Barrington Erle, and,--as it had happened,--old Mr. Maule. The dinner
had been very pleasant, and two or three words had been spoken which had tended to raise the
heart of our hero. In the first place Barrington Erle had expressed a regret that Phineas was
not at his old post at the Colonies, and the young Duke had re-echoed it. Phineas thought that
the manner of his old friend Erle was more cordial to him than it had been lately, and even
that comforted him. Then it was a delight to him to meet the Chilterns, who were always gracious
to him. But perhaps his greatest pleasure came from the reception which was accorded by his
hostess to Mr. Maule, which was of a nature not easy to describe. It had become evident to
Phineas that Mr. Maule was constant in his attentions to Madame Goesler; and, though he had
no purpose of his own in reference to the lady,--though he was aware that former circumstances,
circumstances of that previous life to which he was accustomed to look back as to another existence,
made it impossible that he should have any such purpose,--still he viewed Mr. Maule with dislike.
He had once ventured to ask her whether she really liked "that old padded dandy." She had answered
that she did like the old dandy. Old dandies, she thought, were preferable to old men who did
not care how they looked;--and as for the padding, that was his affair, not hers. She did not
know why a man should not have a pad in his coat, as well as a woman one at the back of her
head. But Phineas had known that this was her gentle raillery, and now he was delighted to
find that she continued it, after a still more gentle fashion, before the man's face. Mr. Maule's
manner was certainly peculiar. He was more than ordinarily polite,--and was afterwards declared
by the Duchess to have made love like an old gander. But Madame Goesler, who knew exactly how
to receive such attentions, turned a glance now and then upon Phineas Finn, which he could
now read with absolute precision. "You see how I can dispose of a padded old dandy directly
he goes an inch too far." No words could have said that to him more plainly than did these
one or two glances;--and, as he had learned to dislike Mr. Maule, he was gratified.

Of course they all talked about Lady Eustace and Mr. Emilius. "Do you remember how intensely
interested the dear old Duke used to be when we none of us knew what had become of the diamonds?"
said the Duchess.

"And how you took her part," said Madame Goesler.

"So did you,--just as much as I; and why not? She was a most interesting young woman, and I
sincerely hope we have not got to the end of her yet. The worst of it is that she has got into
such--very bad hands. The Bonteens have taken her up altogether. Do you know her, Mr. Finn?"

"No, Duchess;--and am hardly likely to make her acquaintance while she remains where she is
now." The Duchess laughed and nodded her head. All the world knew by this time that she had
declared herself to be the sworn enemy of the Bonteens.

And there had been some conversation on that terribly difficult question respecting the foxes
in Trumpeton Wood. "The fact is, Lord Chiltern," said the Duke, "I'm as ignorant as a child.
I would do right if I knew how. What ought I to do? Shall I import some foxes?"

"I don't suppose, Duke, that in all England there is a spot in which foxes are more prone to
breed."

"Indeed. I'm very glad of that. But something goes wrong afterwards, I fear."

"The nurseries are not well managed, perhaps," said the Duchess.

"Gipsy kidnappers are allowed about the place," said Madame Goesler.

"Gipsies!" exclaimed the Duke.

"Poachers!" said Lord Chiltern. "But it isn't that we mind. We could deal with that ourselves
if the woods were properly managed. A head of game and foxes can be reared together very well,
if--"

"I don't care a straw for a head of game, Lord Chiltern. As far as my own tastes go, I would
wish that there was neither a pheasant nor a partridge nor a hare on any property that I own.
I think that sheep and barn-door fowls do better for everybody in the long run, and that men
who cannot live without shooting should go beyond thickly-populated regions to find it. And,
indeed, for myself, I must say the same about foxes. They do not interest me, and I fancy that
they will gradually be exterminated."

"God forbid!" exclaimed Lord Chiltern.

"But I do not find myself called upon to exterminate them myself," continued the Duke. "The
number of men who amuse themselves by riding after one fox is too great for me to wish to interfere
with them. And I know that my neighbours in the country conceive it to be my duty to have foxes
for them. I will oblige them, Lord Chiltern, as far as I can without detriment to other duties."

"You leave it to me," said the Duchess to her neighbour, Lord Chiltern. "I'll speak to Mr.
Fothergill myself, and have it put right." It unfortunately happened, however, that Lord Chiltern
got a letter the very next morning from old Doggett telling him that a litter of young cubs
had been destroyed that week in Trumpeton Wood.

Barrington Erle and Phineas went off to The Universe together, and as they went the old terms
of intimacy seemed to be re-established between them. "Nobody can be so sorry as I am," said
Barrington, "at the manner in which things have gone. When I wrote to you, of course, I thought
it certain that, if we came in, you would come with us."

"Do not let that fret you."

"But it does fret me,--very much. There are so many slips that of course no one can answer
for anything."

"Of course not. I know who has been my friend."

"The joke of it is, that he himself is at present so utterly friendless. The Duke will hardly
speak to him. I know that as a fact. And Gresham has begun to find something is wrong. We all
hoped that he would refuse to come in without a seat in the Cabinet;--but that was too good
to be true. They say he talks of resigning. I shall believe it when I see it. He'd better not
play any tricks, for if he did resign, it would be accepted at once." Phineas, when he heard
this, could not help thinking how glorious it would be if Mr. Bonteen were to resign, and if
the place so vacated, or some vacancy so occasioned, were to be filled by him!

They reached the club together, and as they went up the stairs, they heard the hum of many
voices in the room. "All the world and his wife are here to-night," said Phineas. They overtook
a couple of men at the door, so that there was something of the bustle of a crowd as they entered.
There was a difficulty in finding places in which to put their coats and hats,--for the accommodation
of The Universe is not great. There was a knot of men talking not far from them, and among
the voices Phineas could clearly hear that of Mr. Bonteen. Ratler's he had heard before, and
also Fitzgibbon's, though he had not distinguished any words from them. But those spoken by
Mr. Bonteen he did distinguish very plainly. "Mr. Phineas Finn, or some such fellow as that,
would be after her at once," said Mr. Bonteen. Then Phineas walked immediately among the knot
of men and showed himself. As soon as he heard his name mentioned, he doubted for a moment
what he would do. Mr. Bonteen when speaking had not known of his presence, and it might be
his duty not to seem to have listened. But the speech had been made aloud, in the open room,--so
that those who chose might listen;--and Phineas could not but have heard it. In that moment
he resolved that he was bound to take notice of what he had heard. "What is it, Mr. Bonteen,
that Phineas Finn will do?" he asked.

Mr. Bonteen had been--dining. He was not a man by any means habitually intemperate, and now
any one saying that he was tipsy would have maligned him. But he was flushed with much wine,
and he was a man whose arrogance in that condition was apt to become extreme. "In vino veritas!"
The sober devil can hide his cloven hoof; but when the devil drinks he loses his cunning and
grows honest. Mr. Bonteen looked Phineas full in the face a second or two before he answered,
and then said,--quite aloud--"You have crept upon us unawares, sir."

"What do you mean by that, sir?" said Phineas. "I have come in as any other man comes."

"Listeners at any rate never hear any good of themselves."

Then there were present among those assembled clear indications of disapproval of Bonteen's
conduct. In these days,--when no palpable and immediate punishment is at hand for personal
insolence from man to man,--personal insolence to one man in a company seems almost to constitute
an insult to every one present. When men could fight readily, an arrogant word or two between
two known to be hostile to each other was only an invitation to a duel, and the angry man was
doing that for which it was known that he could be made to pay. There was, or it was often
thought that there was, a real spirit in the angry man's conduct, and they who were his friends
before became perhaps more his friends when he had thus shown that he had an enemy. But a different
feeling prevails at present;--a feeling so different, that we may almost say that a man in
general society cannot speak even roughly to any but his intimate comrades without giving offence
to all around him. Men have learned to hate the nuisance of a row, and to feel that their comfort
is endangered if a man prone to rows gets among them. Of all candidates at a club a known quarreller
is more sure of blackballs now than even in the times when such a one provoked duels. Of all
bores he is the worst; and there is always an unexpressed feeling that such a one exacts more
from his company than his share of attention. This is so strong, that too often the man quarrelled
with, though he be as innocent as was Phineas on the present occasion, is made subject to the
general aversion which is felt for men who misbehave themselves.

"I wish to hear no good of myself from you," said Phineas, following him to his seat. "Who
is it that you said,--I should be after?" The room was full, and every one there, even they
who had come in with Phineas, knew that Lady Eustace was the woman. Everybody at present was
talking about Lady Eustace.

"Never mind," said Barrington Erle, taking him by the arm. "What's the use of a row?"

"No use at all;--but if you heard your name mentioned in such a manner you would find it impossible
to pass it over. There is Mr. Monk;--ask him."

Mr. Monk was sitting very quietly in a corner of the room with another gentleman of his own
age by him,--one devoted to literary pursuits and a constant attendant at The Universe. As
he said afterwards, he had never known any unpleasantness of that sort in the club before.
There were many men of note in the room. There was a foreign minister, a member of the Cabinet,
two ex-members of the Cabinet, a great poet, an exceedingly able editor, two earls, two members
of the Royal Academy, the president of a learned society, a celebrated professor,--and it was
expected that Royalty might come in at any minute, speak a few benign words, and blow a few
clouds of smoke. It was abominable that the harmony of such a meeting should be interrupted
by the vinous insolence of Mr. Bonteen, and the useless wrath of Phineas Finn. "Really, Mr.
Finn, if I were you I would let it drop," said the gentleman devoted to literary pursuits.

Phineas did not much affect the literary gentleman, but in such a matter would prefer the advice
of Mr. Monk to that of any man living. He again appealed to his friend. "You heard what was said?"

"I heard Mr. Bonteen remark that you or somebody like you would in certain circumstances be
after a certain lady. I thought it to be an ill-judged speech, and as your particular friend
I heard it with great regret."

"What a row about nothing!" said Mr. Bonteen, rising from his seat. "We were speaking of a
very pretty woman, and I was saying that some young fellow generally supposed to be fond of
pretty women would soon be after her. If that offends your morals you must have become very
strict of late."

There was something in the explanation which, though very bad and vulgar, it was almost impossible
not to accept. Such at least was the feeling of those who stood around Phineas Finn. He himself
knew that Mr. Bonteen had intended to assert that he would be after the woman's money and not
her beauty; but he had taste enough to perceive that he could not descend to any such detail
as that. "There are reasons, Mr. Bonteen," he said, "why I think you should abstain from mentioning
my name in public. Your playful references should be made to your friends, and not to those
who, to say the least of it, are not your friends."

When the matter was discussed afterwards it was thought that Phineas Finn should have abstained
from making the last speech. It was certainly evidence of great anger on his part. And he was
very angry. He knew that he had been insulted,--and insulted by the man whom of all men he
would feel most disposed to punish for any offence. He could not allow Mr. Bonteen to have
the last word, especially as a certain amount of success had seemed to attend them. Fate at
the moment was so far propitious to Phineas that outward circumstances saved him from any immediate
reply, and thus left him in some degree triumphant. Expected Royalty arrived, and cast its
salutary oil upon the troubled waters. The Prince, with some well-known popular attendant,
entered the room, and for a moment every gentleman rose from his chair. It was but for a moment,
and then the Prince became as any other gentleman, talking to his friends. One or two there
present, who had perhaps peculiarly royal instincts, had crept up towards him so as to make
him the centre of a little knot, but, otherwise, conversation went on much as it had done before
the unfortunate arrival of Phineas. That quarrel, however, had been very distinctly trodden
under foot by the Prince, for Mr. Bonteen had found himself quite incapacitated from throwing
back any missile in reply to the last that had been hurled at him.

Phineas took a vacant seat next to Mr. Monk,--who was deficient perhaps in royal instincts,--and
asked him in a whisper his opinion of what had taken place. "Do not think any more of it,"
said Mr. Monk.

"That is so much more easily said than done. How am I not to think of it?"

"Of course I mean that you are to act as though you had forgotten it."

"Did you ever know a more gratuitous insult? Of course he was talking of that Lady Eustace."

"I had not been listening to him before, but no doubt he was. I need not tell you now what
I think of Mr. Bonteen. He is not more gracious in my eyes than he is in yours. To-night I
fancy he has been drinking, which has not improved him. You may be sure of this, Phineas,--that
the less of resentful anger you show in such a wretched affair as took place just now, the
more will be the blame attached to him and the less to you."

"Why should any blame be attached to me?"

"I don't say that any will unless you allow yourself to become loud and resentful. The thing
is not worth your anger."

"I am angry."

"Then go to bed at once, and sleep it off. Come with me, and we'll walk home together."

"It isn't the proper thing, I fancy, to leave the room while the Prince is here."

"Then I must do the improper thing," said Mr. Monk. "I haven't a key, and I mustn't keep my
servant up any longer. A quiet man like me can creep out without notice. Good night, Phineas,
and take my advice about this. If you can't forget it, act and speak and look as though you
had forgotten it." Then Mr. Monk, without much creeping, left the room.

The club was very full, and there was a clatter of voices, and the clatter round the Prince
was the noisiest and merriest. Mr. Bonteen was there, of course, and Phineas as he sat alone
could hear him as he edged his words in upon the royal ears. Every now and again there was
a royal joke, and then Mr. Bonteen's laughter was conspicuous. As far as Phineas could distinguish
the sounds no special amount of the royal attention was devoted to Mr. Bonteen. That very able
editor, and one of the Academicians, and the poet, seemed to be the most honoured, and when
the Prince went,--which he did when his cigar was finished,--Phineas observed with inward satisfaction
that the royal hand, which was given to the poet, to the editor, and to the painter, was not
extended to the President of the Board of Trade. And then, having taken delight in this, he
accused himself of meanness in having even observed a matter so trivial. Soon after this a
ruck of men left the club, and then Phineas rose to go. As he went down the stairs Barrington
Erle followed him with Laurence Fitzgibbon, and the three stood for a moment at the door in
the street talking to each other. Finn's way lay eastward from the club, whereas both Erle
and Fitzgibbon would go westwards towards their homes. "How well the Prince behaves at these
sort of places!" said Erle.

"Princes ought to behave well," said Phineas.

"Somebody else didn't behave very well,--eh, Finn, my boy?" said Laurence.

"Somebody else, as you call him," replied Phineas, "is very unlike a Prince, and never does
behave well. To-night, however, he surpassed himself."

"Don't bother your mind about it, old fellow," said Barrington.

"I tell you what it is, Erle," said Phineas. "I don't think that I'm a vindictive man by nature,
but with that man I mean to make it even some of these days. You know as well as I do what
it is he has done to me, and you know also whether I have deserved it. Wretched reptile that
he is! He has pretty nearly been able to ruin me,--and all from some petty feeling of jealousy."

"Finn, me boy, don't talk like that," said Laurence.

"You shouldn't show your hand," said Barrington.

"I know what you mean, and it's all very well. After your different fashions you two have been
true to me, and I don't care how much you see of my hand. That man's insolence angers me to
such an extent that I cannot refrain from speaking out. He hasn't spirit enough to go out with
me, or I would shoot him."

"Blankenberg, eh!" said Laurence, alluding to the now notorious duel which had once been fought
in that place between Phineas and Lord Chiltern.

"I would," continued the angry man. "There are times in which one is driven to regret that
there has come an end to duelling, and there is left to one no immediate means of resenting
an injury."

As they were speaking Mr. Bonteen came out from the front door alone, and seeing the three
men standing, passed on towards the left, eastwards. "Good night, Erle," he said. "Good night,
Fitzgibbon." The two men answered him, and Phineas stood back in the gloom. It was about one
o'clock and the night was very dark. "By George, I do dislike that man," said Phineas. Then,
with a laugh, he took a life-preserver out of his pocket, and made an action with it as though
he were striking some enemy over the head. In those days there had been much garotting in the
streets, and writers in the Press had advised those who walked about at night to go armed with
sticks. Phineas Finn had himself been once engaged with garotters,--as has been told in a former
chronicle,--and had since armed himself, thinking more probably of the thing which he had happened
to see than men do who had only heard of it. As soon as he had spoken, he followed Mr. Bonteen
down the street, at the distance of perhaps a couple of hundred yards.

"They won't have a row,--will they?" said Erle.

"Oh, dear, no; Finn won't think of speaking to him; and you may be sure that Bonteen won't
say a word to Finn. Between you and me, Barrington, I wish Master Phineas would give him a
thorough good hiding."

CHAPTER XLVII

What Came of the Quarrel

On the next morning at seven o'clock a superintendent of police called at the house of Mr.
Gresham and informed the Prime Minister that Mr. Bonteen, the President of the Board of Trade,
had been murdered during the night. There was no doubt of the fact. The body had been recognised,
and information had been taken to the unfortunate widow at the house Mr. Bonteen had occupied
in St. James's Place. The superintendent had already found out that Mr. Bonteen had been attacked
as he was returning from his club late at night,--or rather, early in the morning, and expressed
no doubt that he had been murdered close to the spot on which his body was found. There is
a dark, uncanny-looking passage running from the end of Bolton Row, in May Fair, between the
gardens of two great noblemen, coming out among the mews in Berkeley Street, at the corner
of Berkeley Square, just opposite to the bottom of Hay Hill. It was on the steps leading up
from the passage to the level of the ground above that the body was found. The passage was
almost as near a way as any from the club to Mr. Bonteen's house in St. James's Place; but
the superintendent declared that gentlemen but seldom used the passage after dark, and he was
disposed to think that the unfortunate man must have been forced down the steps by the ruffian
who had attacked him from the level above. The murderer, so thought the superintendent, must
have been cognizant of the way usually taken by Mr. Bonteen, and must have lain in wait for
him in the darkness of the mouth of the passage. The superintendent had been at work on his
inquiries since four in the morning, and had heard from Lady Eustace,--and from Mrs. Bonteen,
as far as that poor distracted woman had been able to tell her story,--some account of the
cause of quarrel between the respective husbands of those two ladies. The officer, who had
not as yet heard a word of the late disturbance between Mr. Bonteen and Phineas Finn, was strongly
of opinion that the Reverend Mr. Emilius had been the murderer. Mr. Gresham, of course, coincided
in that opinion. What steps had been taken as to the arrest of Mr. Emilius? The superintendent
was of opinion that Mr. Emilius was already in custody. He was known to be lodging close to
the Marylebone Workhouse, in Northumberland Street, having removed to that somewhat obscure
neighbourhood as soon as his house in Lowndes Square had been broken up by the running away
of his wife and his consequent want of means. Such was the story as told to the Prime Minister
at seven o'clock in the morning.

At eleven o'clock, at his private room at the Treasury Chambers, Mr. Gresham heard much more.
At that time there were present with him two officers of the police force, his colleagues in
the Cabinet, Lord Cantrip and the Duke of Omnium, three of his junior colleagues in the Government,
Lord Fawn, Barrington Erle, and Laurence Fitzgibbon,--and Major Mackintosh, the chief of the
London police. It was not exactly part of the duty of Mr. Gresham to investigate the circumstances
of this murder; but there was so much in it that brought it closely home to him and his Government,
that it became impossible for him not to concern himself in the business. There had been so
much talk about Mr. Bonteen lately, his name had been so common in the newspapers, the ill-usage
which he had been supposed by some to have suffered had been so freely discussed, and his quarrel,
not only with Phineas Finn, but subsequently with the Duke of Omnium, had been so widely known,--that
his sudden death created more momentary excitement than might probably have followed that of
a greater man. And now, too, the facts of the past night, as they became known, seemed to make
the crime more wonderful, more exciting, more momentous than it would have been had it been
brought clearly home to such a wretch as the Bohemian Jew, Yosef Mealyus, who had contrived
to cheat that wretched Lizzie Eustace into marrying him.

As regarded Yosef Mealyus the story now told respecting him was this. He was already in custody.
He had been found in bed at his lodgings between seven and eight, and had, of course, given
himself up without difficulty. He had seemed to be horror-struck when he heard of the man's
death,--but had openly expressed his joy. "He has endeavoured to ruin me, and has done me a
world of harm. Why should I sorrow for him?"--he said to the policeman when rebuked for his
inhumanity. But nothing had been found tending to implicate him in the crime. The servant declared
that he had gone to bed before eleven o'clock, to her knowledge,--for she had seen him there,--and
that he had not left the house afterwards. Was he in possession of a latch-key? It appeared
that he did usually carry a latch-key, but that it was often borrowed from him by members of
the family when it was known that he would not want it himself,--and that it had been so lent
on this night. It was considered certain by those in the house that he had not gone out after
he went to bed. Nobody in fact had left the house after ten; but in accordance with his usual
custom Mr. Emilius had sent down the key as soon as he had found that he would not want it,
and it had been all night in the custody of the mistress of the establishment. Nevertheless
his clothes were examined minutely, but without affording any evidence against him. That Mr.
Bonteen had been killed with some blunt weapon, such as a life-preserver, was assumed by the
police, but no such weapon was in the possession of Mr. Emilius, nor had any such weapon yet
been found. He was, however, in custody, with no evidence against him except that which was
afforded by his known and acknowledged enmity to Mr. Bonteen.

So far, Major Mackintosh and the two officers had told their story. Then came the united story
of the other gentlemen assembled,--from hearing which, however, the two police officers were
debarred. The Duke and Barrington Erle had both dined in company with Phineas Finn at Madame
Goesler's, and the Duke was undoubtedly aware that ill blood had existed between Finn and Mr.
Bonteen. Both Erle and Fitzgibbon described the quarrel at the club, and described also the
anger which Finn had expressed against the wretched man as he stood talking at the club door.
His gesture of vengeance was remembered and repeated, though both the men who heard it expressed
their strongest conviction that the murder had not been committed by him. As Erle remarked,
the very expression of such a threat was almost proof that he had not at that moment any intention
on his mind of doing such a deed as had been done. But they told also of the life-preserver
which Finn had shown them, as he took it from the pocket of his outside coat, and they marvelled
at the coincidences of the night. Then Lord Fawn gave further evidence, which seemed to tell
very hardly upon Phineas Finn. He also had been at the club, and had left it just before Finn
and the two other men had clustered at the door. He had walked very slowly, having turned down
to Curzon Street and Bolton Row, from whence he made his way into Piccadilly by Clarges Street.
He had seen nothing of Mr. Bonteen; but as he crossed over to Clarges Street he was passed
at a very rapid pace by a man muffled in a top coat, who made his way straight along Bolton
Row towards the passage which has been described. At the moment he had not connected the person
of the man who passed him with any acquaintance of his own; but he now felt sure,--after what
he had heard,--that the man was Mr. Finn. As he passed out of the club Finn was putting on
his overcoat, and Lord Fawn had observed the peculiarity of the grey colour. It was exactly
a similar coat, only with its collar raised, that had passed him in the street. The man, too,
was of Mr. Finn's height and build. He had known Mr. Finn well, and the man stepped with Mr.
Finn's step. Major Mackintosh thought that Lord Fawn's evidence was--"very unfortunate as regarded
Mr. Finn."

"I'm d---- if that idiot won't hang poor Phinny," said Fitzgibbon afterwards to Erle. "And
yet I don't believe a word of it."

"Fawn wouldn't lie for the sake of hanging Phineas Finn," said Erle.

"No;--I don't suppose he's given to lying at all. He believes it all. But he's such a muddle-headed
fellow that he can get himself to believe anything. He's one of those men who always unconsciously
exaggerate what they have to say for the sake of the importance it gives them." It might be
possible that a jury would look at Lord Fawn's evidence in this light; otherwise it would bear
very heavily, indeed, against Phineas Finn.

Then a question arose as to the road which Mr. Bonteen usually took from the club. All the
members who were there present had walked home with him at various times,--and by various routes,
but never by the way through the passage. It was supposed that on this occasion he must have
gone by Berkeley Square, because he had certainly not turned down by the first street to the
right, which he would have taken had he intended to avoid the square. He had been seen by Barrington
Erle and Fitzgibbon to pass that turning. Otherwise they would have made no remark as to the
possibility of a renewed quarrel between him and Phineas, should Phineas chance to overtake
him;--for Phineas would certainly go by the square unless taken out of his way by some special
purpose. The most direct way of all for Mr. Bonteen would have been that followed by Lord Fawn;
but as he had not turned down this street, and had not been seen by Lord Fawn, who was known
to walk very slowly, and had often been seen to go by Berkeley Square,--it was presumed that
he had now taken that road. In this case he would certainly pass the end of the passage towards
which Lord Fawn declared that he had seen the man hurrying whom he now supposed to have been
Phineas Finn. Finn's direct road home would, as has been already said, have been through the
square, cutting off the corner of the square, towards Bruton Street, and thence across Bond
Street by Conduit Street to Regent Street, and so to Great Marlborough Street, where he lived.
But it had been, no doubt, possible for him to have been on the spot on which Lord Fawn had
seen the man; for, although in his natural course thither from the club he would have at once
gone down the street to the right,--a course which both Erle and Fitzgibbon were able to say
that he did not take, as they had seen him go beyond the turning,--nevertheless there had been
ample time for him to have retraced his steps to it in time to have caught Lord Fawn, and thus
to have deceived Fitzgibbon and Erle as to the route he had taken.

When they had got thus far Lord Cantrip was standing close to the window of the room at Mr.
Gresham's elbow. "Don't allow yourself to be hurried into believing it," said Lord Cantrip.

"I do not know that we need believe it, or the reverse. It is a case for the police."

"Of course it is;--but your belief and mine will have a weight. Nothing that I have heard makes
me for a moment think it possible. I know the man."

"He was very angry."

"Had he struck him in the club I should not have been much surprised; but he never attacked
his enemy with a bludgeon in a dark alley. I know him well."

"What do you think of Fawn's story?"

"He was mistaken in his man. Remember;--it was a dark night."

"I do not see that you and I can do anything," said Mr. Gresham. "I shall have to say something
in the House as to the poor fellow's death, but I certainly shall not express a suspicion.
Why should I?"

Up to this moment nothing had been done as to Phineas Finn. It was known that he would in his
natural course of business be in his place in Parliament at four, and Major Mackintosh was
of opinion that he certainly should be taken before a magistrate in time to prevent the necessity
of arresting him in the House. It was decided that Lord Fawn, with Fitzgibbon and Erle, should
accompany the police officer to Bow Street, and that a magistrate should be applied to for
a warrant if he thought the evidence was sufficient. Major Mackintosh was of opinion that,
although by no possibility could the two men suspected have been jointly guilty of the murder,
still the circumstances were such as to justify the immediate arrest of both. Were Yosef Mealyus
really guilty and to be allowed to slip from their hands, no doubt it might be very difficult
to catch him. Facts did not at present seem to prevail against him; but, as the Major observed,
facts are apt to alter considerably when they are minutely sifted. His character was half sufficient
to condemn him;--and then with him there was an adequate motive, and what Lord Cantrip regarded
as "a possibility." It was not to be conceived that from mere rage Phineas Finn would lay a
plot for murdering a man in the street. "It is on the cards, my lord," said the Major, "that
he may have chosen to attack Mr. Bonteen without intending to murder him. The murder may afterwards
have been an accident."

It was impossible after this for even a Prime Minister and two Cabinet Ministers to go about
their work calmly. The men concerned had been too well known to them to allow their minds to
become clear of the subject. When Major Mackintosh went off to Bow Street with Erle and Laurence,
it was certainly the opinion of the majority of those who had been present that the blow had
been struck by the hand of Phineas Finn. And perhaps the worst aspect of it all was that there
had been not simply a blow,--but blows. The constables had declared that the murdered man had
been struck thrice about the head, and that the fatal stroke had been given on the side of
his head after the man's hat had been knocked off. That Finn should have followed his enemy
through the street, after such words as he had spoken, with the view of having the quarrel
out in some shape, did not seem to be very improbable to any of them except Lord Cantrip;--and
then had there been a scuffle, out in the open path, at the spot at which the angry man might
have overtaken his adversary, it was not incredible to them that he should have drawn even
such a weapon as a life-preserver from his pocket. But, in the case as it had occurred, a spot
peculiarly traitorous had been selected, and the attack had too probably been made from behind.
As yet there was no evidence that the murderer had himself encountered any ill-usage. And Finn,
if he was the murderer, must, from the time he was standing at the club door, have contemplated
a traitorous, dastardly attack. He must have counted his moments;--have returned slyly in the
dark to the corner of the street which he had once passed;--have muffled his face in his coat;--and
have then laid wait in a spot to which an honest man at night would hardly trust himself with
honest purposes. "I look upon it as quite out of the question," said Lord Cantrip, when the
three Ministers were left alone. Now Lord Cantrip had served for many months in the same office
as Phineas Finn.

"You are simply putting your own opinion of the man against the facts," said Mr. Gresham. "But
facts always convince, and another man's opinion rarely convinces."

"I'm not sure that we know the facts yet," said the Duke.

"Of course we are speaking of them as far as they have been told to us. As far as they go,--unless
they can be upset and shown not to be facts,--I fear they would be conclusive to me on a jury."

"Do you mean that you have heard enough to condemn him?" asked Lord Cantrip.

"Remember what we have heard. The murdered man had two enemies."

"He may have had a third."

"Or ten; but we have heard of but two."

"He may have been attacked for his money," said the Duke. "But neither his money nor his watch
were touched," continued Mr. Gresham. "Anger, or the desire of putting the man out of the way,
has caused the murder. Of the two enemies one,--according to the facts as we now have them,--could
not have been there. Nor is it probable that he could have known that his enemy would be on
that spot. The other not only could have been there, but was certainly near the place at the
moment,--so near that did he not do the deed himself, it is almost wonderful that it should
not have been interrupted in its doing by his nearness. He certainly knew that the victim would
be there. He was burning with anger against him at the moment. He had just threatened him.
He had with him such an instrument as was afterwards used. A man believed to be him is seen
hurrying to the spot by a witness whose credibility is beyond doubt. These are the facts such
as we have them at present. Unless they can be upset, I fear they would convince a jury,--as
they have already convinced those officers of the police."

"Officers of the police always believe men to be guilty," said Lord Cantrip.

"They don't believe the Jew clergyman to be guilty," said Mr. Gresham.

"I fear that there will be enough to send Mr. Finn to a trial," said the Duke.

"Not a doubt of it," said Mr. Gresham.

"And yet I feel as convinced of his innocence as I do of my own," said Lord Cantrip.

CHAPTER XLVIII

Mr. Maule's Attempt

About three o'clock in the day the first tidings of what had taken place reached Madame Goesler
in the following perturbed note from her friend the Duchess:--"Have you heard what took place
last night? Good God! Mr. Bonteen was murdered as he came home from his club, and they say
that it was done by Phineas Finn. Plantagenet has just come in from Downing Street, where everybody
is talking about it. I can't get from him what he believes. One never can get anything from
him. But I never will believe it;--nor will you, I'm sure. I vote we stick to him to the last.
He is to be put in prison and tried. I can hardly believe that Mr. Bonteen has been murdered,
though I don't know why he shouldn't as well as anybody else. Plantagenet talks about the great
loss; I know which would be the greatest loss, and so do you. I'm going out now to try and
find out something. Barrington Erle was there, and if I can find him he will tell me. I shall
be home by half-past five. Do come, there's a dear woman; there is no one else I can talk to
about it. If I'm not back, go in all the same, and tell them to bring you tea.

"Only think of Lady Laura,--with one mad and the other in Newgate! G.P."

This letter gave Madame Goesler such a blow that for a few minutes it altogether knocked her
down. After reading it once she hardly knew what it contained beyond a statement that Phineas
Finn was in Newgate. She sat for a while with it in her hands, almost swooning; and then with
an effort she recovered herself, and read the letter again. Mr. Bonteen murdered, and Phineas
Finn,--who had dined with her only yesterday evening, with whom she had been talking of all
the sins of the murdered man, who was her special friend, of whom she thought more than of
any other human being, of whom she could not bring herself to cease to think,--accused of the
murder! Believe it! The Duchess had declared with that sort of enthusiasm which was common
to her, that she never would believe it. No, indeed! What judge of character would any one
be who could believe that Phineas Finn could be guilty of a midnight murder? "I vote we stick
to him." "Stick to him!" Madame Goesler said, repeating the words to herself. "What is the
use of sticking to a man who does not want you?" How can a woman cling to a man who, having
said that he did not want her, yet comes again within her influence, but does not unsay what
he had said before? Nevertheless, if it should be that the man was in real distress,--in absolutely
dire sorrow,--she would cling to him with a constancy which, as she thought, her friend the
Duchess would hardly understand. Though they should hang him, she would bathe his body with
her tears, and live as a woman should live who had loved a murderer to the last.

But she swore to herself that she would not believe it. Nay, she did not believe it. Believe
it, indeed! It was simply impossible. That he might have killed the wretch in some struggle
brought on by the man's own fault was possible. Had the man attacked Phineas Finn it was only
too probable that there might have been such result. But murder, secret midnight murder, could
not have been committed by the man she had chosen as her friend. And yet, through it all, there
was a resolve that even though he should have committed murder she would be true to him. If
it should come to the very worst, then would she declare the intensity of the affection with
which she regarded the murderer. As to Mr. Bonteen, what the Duchess said was true enough;
why should not he be killed as well as another? In her present frame of mind she felt very
little pity for Mr. Bonteen. After a fashion a verdict of "served him right" crossed her mind,
as it had doubtless crossed that of the Duchess when she was writing her letter. The man had
made himself so obnoxious that it was well that he should be out of the way. But not on that
account would she believe that Phineas Finn had murdered him.

Could it be true that the man after all was dead? Marvellous reports, and reports marvellously
false, do spread themselves about the world every day. But this report had come from the Duke,
and he was not a man given to absurd rumours. He had heard the story in Downing Street, and
if so it must be true. Of course she would go down to the Duchess at the hour fixed. It was
now a little after three, and she ordered the carriage to be ready for her at a quarter past
five. Then she told the servant, at first to admit no one who might call, and then to come
up and let her know, if any one should come, without sending the visitor away. It might be
that some one would come to her expressly from Phineas, or at least with tidings about this affair.

Then she read the letter again, and those few last words in it stuck to her thoughts like a
burr. "Think of Lady Laura, with one mad and the other in Newgate." Was this man,--the only
man whom she had ever loved,--more to Lady Laura Kennedy than to her; or rather, was Lady Laura
more to him than was she herself? If so, why should she fret herself for his sake? She was
ready enough to own that she could sacrifice everything for him, even though he should be standing
as a murderer in the dock, if such sacrifice would be valued by him. He had himself told her
that his feelings towards Lady Laura were simply those of an affectionate friend; but how could
she believe that statement when all the world were saying the reverse? Lady Laura was a married
woman,--a woman whose husband was still living,--and of course he was bound to make such an
assertion when he and she were named together. And then it was certain,--Madame Goesler believed
it to be certain,--that there had been a time in which Phineas had asked for the love of Lady
Laura Standish. But he had never asked for her love. It had been tendered to him, and he had
rejected it! And now the Duchess,--who, with all her inaccuracies, had that sharpness of vision
which enables some men and women to see into facts,--spoke as though Lady Laura were to be
pitied more than all others, because of the evil that had befallen Phineas Finn! Had not Lady
Laura chosen her own husband; and was not the man, let him be ever so mad, still her husband?
Madame Goesler was sore of heart, as well as broken down with sorrow, till at last, hiding
her face on the pillow of the sofa, still holding the Duchess's letter in her hand, she burst
into a fit of hysteric sobs.

Few of those who knew Madame Max Goesler well, as she lived in town and in country, would have
believed that such could have been the effect upon her of the news which she had heard. Credit
was given to her everywhere for good nature, discretion, affability, and a certain grace of
demeanour which always made her charming. She was known to be generous, wise, and of high spirit.
Something of her conduct to the old Duke had crept into general notice, and had been told,
here and there, to her honour. She had conquered the good opinion of many, and was a popular
woman. But there was not one among her friends who supposed her capable of becoming a victim
to a strong passion, or would have suspected her of reckless weeping for any sorrow. The Duchess,
who thought that she knew Madame Goesler well, would not have believed it to be true, even
if she had seen it. "You like people, but I don't think you ever love any one," the Duchess
had once said to her. Madame Goesler had smiled, and had seemed to assent. To enjoy the world,--and
to know that the best enjoyment must come from witnessing the satisfaction of others, had apparently
been her philosophy. But now she was prostrate because this man was in trouble, and because
she had been told that his trouble was more than another woman could bear!

She was still sobbing and crushing the letter in her hand when the servant came up to tell
her that Mr. Maule had called. He was below, waiting to know whether she would see him. She
remembered at once that Mr. Maule had met Phineas at her table on the previous evening, and,
thinking that he must have come with tidings respecting this great event, desired that he might
be shown up to her. But, as it happened, Mr. Maule had not yet heard of the death of Mr. Bonteen.
He had remained at home till nearly four, having a great object in view, which made him deem
it expedient that he should go direct from his own rooms to Madame Goesler's house, and had
not even looked in at his club. The reader will, perhaps, divine the great object. On this
day he proposed to ask Madame Goesler to make him the happiest of men,--as he certainly would
have thought himself for a time, had she consented to put him in possession of her large income.
He had therefore padded himself with more than ordinary care,--reduced but not obliterated
the greyness of his locks,--looked carefully to the fitting of his trousers, and spared himself
those ordinary labours of the morning which might have robbed him of any remaining spark of
his juvenility.

Madame Goesler met him more than half across the room as he entered it. "What have you heard?"
said she. Mr. Maule wore his sweetest smile, but he had heard nothing. He could only press
her hand, and look blank,--understanding that there was something which he ought to have heard.
She thought nothing of the pressure of her hand. Apt as she was to be conscious at an instant
of all that was going on around her, she thought of nothing now but that man's peril, and of
the truth or falsehood of the story that had been sent to her. "You have heard nothing of Mr.
Finn?"

"Not a word," said Mr. Maule, withdrawing his hand. "What has happened to Mr. Finn?" Had Mr.
Finn broken his neck it would have been nothing to Mr. Maule. But the lady's solicitude was
something to him.

"Mr. Bonteen has been--murdered!"

"Mr. Bonteen!"

"So I hear. I thought you had come to tell me of it."

"Mr. Bonteen murdered! No;--I have heard nothing. I do not know the gentleman. I thought you
said--Mr. Finn."

"It is not known about London, then?"

"I cannot say, Madame Goesler. I have just come from home, and have not been out all the morning.
Who has--murdered him?"

"Ah! I do not know. That is what I wanted you to tell me."

"But what of Mr. Finn?"

"I also have not been out, Mr. Maule, and can give you no information. I thought you had called
because you knew that Mr. Finn had dined here."

"Has Mr. Finn been murdered?"

"Mr. Bonteen! I said that the report was that Mr. Bonteen had been murdered." Madame Goesler
was now waxing angry,--most unreasonably. "But I know nothing about it, and am just going out
to make inquiry. The carriage is ordered." Then she stood, expecting him to go; and he knew
that he was expected to go. It was at any rate clear to him that he could not carry out his
great design on the present occasion. "This has so upset me that I can think of nothing else
at present, and you must, if you please, excuse me. I would not have let you take the trouble
of coming up, had not I thought that you were the bearer of some news." Then she bowed, and
Mr. Maule bowed; and as he left the room she forgot to ring the bell.

"What the deuce can she have meant about that fellow Finn?" he said to himself. "They cannot
both have been murdered." He went to his club, and there he soon learned the truth. The information
was given to him with clear and undoubting words. Phineas Finn and Mr. Bonteen had quarrelled
at The Universe. Mr. Bonteen, as far as words went, had got the best of his adversary. This
had taken place in the presence of the Prince, who had expressed himself as greatly annoyed
by Mr. Finn's conduct. And afterwards Phineas Finn had waylaid Mr. Bonteen in the passage between
Bolton Row and Berkeley Street, and had there--murdered him. As it happened, no one who had
been at The Universe was at that moment present; but the whole affair was now quite well known,
and was spoken of without a doubt.

"I hope he'll be hung, with all my heart," said Mr. Maule, who thought that he could read the
riddle which had been so unintelligible in Park Lane.

When Madame Goesler reached Carlton Terrace, which she did before the time named by the Duchess,
her friend had not yet returned. But she went upstairs, as she had been desired, and they brought
her tea. But the teapot remained untouched till past six o'clock, and then the Duchess returned.
"Oh, my dear, I am so sorry for being late. Why haven't you had tea?"

"What is the truth of it all?" said Madame Goesler, standing up with her fists clenched as
they hung by her side.

"I don't seem to know nearly as much as I did when I wrote to you."

"Has the man been--murdered?"

"Oh dear, yes. There's no doubt about that. I was quite sure of that when I sent the letter.
I have had such a hunt. But at last I went up to the door of the House of Commons, and got
Barrington Erle to come out to me."

"Well?"

"Two men have been arrested."

"Not Phineas Finn?"

"Yes; Mr. Finn is one of them. Is it not awful? So much more dreadful to me than the other
poor man's death! One oughtn't to say so, of course."

"And who is the other man? Of course he did it."

"That horrid Jew preaching man that married Lizzie Eustace. Mr. Bonteen had been persecuting
him, and making out that he had another wife at home in Hungary, or Bohemia, or somewhere."

"Of course he did it."

"That's what I say. Of course the Jew did it. But then all the evidence goes to show that he
didn't do it. He was in bed at the time; and the door of the house was locked up so that he
couldn't get out; and the man who did the murder hadn't got on his coat, but had got on Phineas
Finn's coat."

"Was there--blood?" asked Madame Goesler, shaking from head to foot.

"Not that I know. I don't suppose they've looked yet. But Lord Fawn saw the man, and swears
to the coat."

"Lord Fawn! How I have always hated that man! I wouldn't believe a word he would say."

"Barrington doesn't think so much of the coat. But Phineas had a club in his pocket, and the
man was killed by a club. There hasn't been any other club found, but Phineas Finn took his
home with him."

"A murderer would not have done that."

"Barrington says that the head policeman says that it is just what a very clever murderer would
do."

"Do you believe it, Duchess?"

"Certainly not;--not though Lord Fawn swore that he had seen it. I never will believe what
I don't like to believe, and nothing shall ever make me."

"He couldn't have done it."

"Well;--for the matter of that, I suppose he could."

"No, Duchess, he could not have done it."

"He is strong enough,--and brave enough."

"But not enough of a coward. There is nothing cowardly about him. If Phineas Finn could have
struck an enemy with a club, in a dark passage, behind his back, I will never care to speak
to any man again. Nothing shall make me believe it. If I did, I could never again believe in
any one. If they told you that your husband had murdered a man, what would you say?"

"But he isn't your husband, Madame Max."

"No;--certainly not. I cannot fly at them, when they say so, as you would do. But I can be
just as sure. If twenty Lord Fawns swore that they had seen it, I would not believe them. Oh,
God, what will they do with him!"

The Duchess behaved very well to her friend, saying not a single word to twit her with the
love which she betrayed. She seemed to take it as a matter of course that Madame Goesler's
interest in Phineas Finn should be as it was. The Duke, she said, could not come home to dinner,
and Madame Goesler should stay with her. Both Houses were in such a ferment about the murder,
that nobody liked to be away. Everybody had been struck with amazement, not simply,--not chiefly,--by
the fact of the murder, but by the double destruction of the two men whose ill-will to each
other had been of late so often the subject of conversation. So Madame Goesler remained at
Carlton Terrace till late in the evening, and during the whole visit there was nothing mentioned
but the murder of Mr. Bonteen and the peril of Phineas Finn. "Some one will go and see him,
I suppose," said Madame Goesler.

"Lord Cantrip has been already,--and Mr. Monk."

"Could not I go?"

"Well, it would be rather strong."

"If we both went together?" suggested Madame Goesler. And before she left Carlton Terrace she
had almost extracted a promise from the Duchess that they would together proceed to the prison
and endeavour to see Phineas Finn.

CHAPTER XLIX

Showing What Mrs. Bunce Said to the Policeman

"We have left Adelaide Palliser down at the Hall. We are up here only for a couple of days
to see Laura, and try to find out what had better be done about Kennedy." This was said to
Phineas Finn in his own room in Great Marlborough Street by Lord Chiltern, on the morning after
the murder, between ten and eleven o'clock. Phineas had not as yet heard of the death of the
man with whom he had quarrelled. Lord Chiltern had now come to him with some proposition which
he as yet did not understand, and which Lord Chiltern certainly did not know how to explain.
Looked at simply, the proposition was one for providing Phineas Finn with an income out of
the wealth belonging, or that would belong, to the Standish family. Lady Laura's fortune would,
it was thought, soon be at her own disposal. They who acted for her husband had assured the
Earl that the yearly interest of the money should be at her ladyship's command as soon as the
law would allow them so to plan it. Of Robert Kennedy's inability to act for himself there
was no longer any doubt whatever, and there was, they said, no desire to embarrass the estate
with so small a disputed matter as the income derived from £40,000. There was great pride of
purse in the manner in which the information was conveyed;--but not the less on that account
was it satisfactory to the Earl. Lady Laura's first thought about it referred to the imminent
wants of Phineas Finn. How might it be possible for her to place a portion of her income at
the command of the man she loved so that he should not feel disgraced by receiving it from
her hand? She conceived some plan as to a loan to be made nominally by her brother,--a plan
as to which it may at once be said that it could not be made to hold water for a minute. But
she did succeed in inducing her brother to undertake the embassy, with the view of explaining
to Phineas that there would be money for him when he wanted it. "If I make it over to Papa,
Papa can leave it him in his will; and if he wants it at once there can be no harm in your
advancing to him what he must have at Papa's death." Her brother had frowned angrily and had
shaken his head. "Think how he has been thrown over by all the party," said Lady Laura. Lord
Chiltern had disliked the whole affair,--had felt with dismay that his sister's name would
become subject to reproach if it should be known that this young man was supported by her bounty.
She, however, had persisted, and he had consented to see the young man, feeling sure that Phineas
would refuse to bear the burden of the obligation.

But he had not touched the disagreeable subject when they were interrupted. A knocking of the
door had been heard, and now Mrs. Bunce came upstairs, bringing Mr. Low with her. Mrs. Bunce
had not heard of the tragedy, but she had at once perceived from the barrister's manner that
there was some serious matter forward,--some matter that was probably not only serious, but
also calamitous. The expression of her countenance announced as much to the two men, and the
countenance of Mr. Low when he followed her into the room told the same story still more plainly.
"Is anything the matter?" said Phineas, jumping up.

"Indeed, yes," said Mr. Low, who then looked at Lord Chiltern and was silent.

"Shall I go?" said Lord Chiltern. Mr. Low did not know him, and of course was still silent.

"This is my friend, Mr. Low. This is my friend, Lord Chiltern," said Phineas, aware that each
was well acquainted with the other's name. "I do not know of any reason why you should go.
What is it, Low?"

Lord Chiltern had come there about money, and it occurred to him that the impecunious young
barrister might already be in some scrape on that head. In nineteen cases out of twenty, when
a man is in a scrape, he simply wants money. "Perhaps I can be of help," he said.

"Have you heard, my Lord, what happened last night?" said Mr. Low, with his eyes fixed on Phineas
Finn.

"I have heard nothing," said Lord Chiltern.

"What has happened?" asked Phineas, looking aghast. He knew Mr. Low well enough to be sure
that the thing referred to was of great and distressing moment.

"You, too, have heard nothing?"

"Not a word--that I know of."

"You were at The Universe last night?"

"Certainly I was."

"Did anything occur?"

"The Prince was there."

"Nothing has happened to the Prince?" said Chiltern.

"His name has not been mentioned to me," said Mr. Low. "Was there not a quarrel?"

"Yes;"--said Phineas. "I quarrelled with Mr. Bonteen."

"What then?"

"He behaved like a brute;--as he always does. Thrashing a brute hardly answers nowadays, but
if ever a man deserved a thrashing he does."

"He has been murdered," said Mr. Low.

The reader need hardly be told that, as regards this great offence, Phineas Finn was as white
as snow. The maintenance of any doubt on that matter,--were it even desirable to maintain a
doubt,--would be altogether beyond the power of the present writer. The reader has probably
perceived, from the first moment of the discovery of the body on the steps at the end of the
passage, that Mr. Bonteen had been killed by that ingenious gentleman, the Rev. Mr. Emilius,
who found it to be worth his while to take the step with the view of suppressing his enemy's
evidence as to his former marriage. But Mr. Low, when he entered the room, had been inclined
to think that his friend had done the deed. Laurence Fitzgibbon, who had been one of the first
to hear the story, and who had summoned Erle to go with him and Major Mackintosh to Downing
Street, had, in the first place, gone to the house in Carey Street, in which Bunce was wont
to work, and had sent him to Mr. Low. He, Fitzgibbon, had not thought it safe that he himself
should warn his countryman, but he could not bear to think that the hare should be knocked
over on its form, or that his friend should be taken by policemen without notice. So he had
sent Bunce to Mr. Low, and Mr. Low had now come with his tidings.

"Murdered!" exclaimed Phineas.

"Who has murdered him?" said Lord Chiltern, looking first at Mr. Low and then at Phineas.

"That is what the police are now endeavouring to find out." Then there was a pause, and Phineas
stood up with his hand on his forehead, looking savagely from one to the other. A glimmer of
an idea of the truth was beginning to cross his brain. Mr. Low was there with the object of
asking him whether he had murdered the man! "Mr. Fitzgibbon was with you last night," continued
Mr. Low.

"Of course he was."

"It was he who has sent me to you."

"What does it all mean?" asked Lord Chiltern. "I suppose they do not intend to say that--our
friend, here--murdered the man."

"I begin to suppose that is what they intend to say," rejoined Phineas, scornfully.

Mr. Low had entered the room, doubting indeed, but still inclined to believe,--as Bunce had
very clearly believed,--that the hands of Phineas Finn were red with the blood of this man
who had been killed. And, had he been questioned on such a matter, when no special case was
before his mind, he would have declared of himself that a few tones from the voice, or a few
glances from the eye, of a suspected man would certainly not suffice to eradicate suspicion.
But now he was quite sure,--almost quite sure,--that Phineas was as innocent as himself. To
Lord Chiltern, who had heard none of the details, the suspicion was so monstrous as to fill
him with wrath. "You don't mean to tell us, Mr. Low, that any one says that Finn killed the man?"

"I have come as his friend," said Low, "to put him on his guard. The accusation will be made
against him."

To Phineas, not clearly looking at it, not knowing very accurately what had happened, not being
in truth quite sure that Mr. Bonteen was actually dead, this seemed to be a continuation of
the persecution which he believed himself to have suffered from that man's hand. "I can believe
anything from that quarter," he said.

"From what quarter?" asked Lord Chiltern. "We had better let Mr. Low tell us what really has
happened."

Then Mr. Low told the story, as well as he knew it, describing the spot on which the body had
been found. "Often as I go to the club," said Phineas, "I never was through that passage in
my life." Mr. Low went on with his tale, telling how the man had been killed with some short
bludgeon. "I had that in my pocket," said Finn, producing the life-preserver. "I have almost
always had something of the kind when I have been in London, since that affair of Kennedy's."
Mr. Low cast one glance at it,--to see whether it had been washed or scraped, or in any way
cleansed. Phineas saw the glance, and was angry. "There it is, as it is. You can make the most
of it. I shall not touch it again till the policeman comes. Don't put your hand on it, Chiltern.
Leave it there." And the instrument was left lying on the table, untouched. Mr. Low went on
with his story. He had heard nothing of Yosef Mealyus as connected with the murder, but some
indistinct reference to Lord Fawn and the top-coat had been made to him. "There is the coat,
too," said Phineas, taking it from the sofa on which he had flung it when he came home the
previous night. It was a very light coat,--fitted for May use,--lined with silk, and by no
means suited for enveloping the face or person. But it had a collar which might be made to
stand up. "That at any rate was the coat I wore," said Finn, in answer to some observation
from the barrister. "The man that Lord Fawn saw," said Mr. Low, "was, as I understand, enveloped
in a heavy great coat." "So Fawn has got his finger in the pie!" said Lord Chiltern.

Mr. Low had been there an hour, Lord Chiltern remaining also in the room, when there came three
men belonging to the police,--a superintendent and with him two constables. When the men were
shown up into the room neither the bludgeon or the coat had been moved from the small table
as Phineas had himself placed them there. Both Phineas and Chiltern had lit cigars, and they
were all there sitting in silence. Phineas had entertained the idea that Mr. Low believed the
charge, and that the barrister was therefore an enemy. Mr. Low had perceived this, but had
not felt it to be his duty to declare his opinion of his friend's innocence. What he could
do for his friend he would do; but, as he thought, he could serve him better now by silent
observation than by protestation. Lord Chiltern, who had been implored by Phineas not to leave
him, continued to pour forth unabating execrations on the monstrous malignity of the accusers.
"I do not know that there are any accusers," said Mr. Low, "except the circumstances which
the police must, of course, investigate." Then the men came, and the nature of their duty was
soon explained. They must request Mr. Finn to go with them to Bow Street. They took possession
of many articles besides the two which had been prepared for them,--the dress coat and shirt
which Phineas had worn, and the boots. He had gone out to dinner with a Gibus hat, and they
took that. They took his umbrella and his latch-key. They asked, even, as to his purse and
money;--but abstained from taking the purse when Mr. Low suggested that they could have no
concern with that. As it happened, Phineas was at the moment wearing the shirt in which he
had dined out on the previous day, and the men asked him whether he had any objection to change
it in their presence,--as it might be necessary, after the examination, that it should be detained
as evidence. He did so, in the presence of all the men assembled; but the humiliation of doing
it almost broke his heart. Then they searched among his linen, clean and dirty, and asked questions
of Mrs. Bunce in audible whispers behind the door. Whatever Mrs. Bunce could do to injure the
cause of her favourite lodger by severity of manner, snubbing the policeman, and determination
to give no information, she did do. "Had a shirt washed? How do you suppose a gentleman's shirts
are washed? You were brought up near enough to a washtub yourself to know more than I can tell
you!" But the very respectable constable did not seem to be in the least annoyed by the landlady's
amenities.

He was taken to Bow Street, going thither in a cab with the two policemen, and the superintendent
followed them with Lord Chiltern and Mr. Low. "You don't mean to say that you believe it?"
said Lord Chiltern to the officer. "We never believe and we never disbelieve anything, my Lord,"
replied the man. Nevertheless, the superintendent did most firmly believe that Phineas Finn
had murdered Mr. Bonteen.

At the police-office Phineas was met by Lord Cantrip and Barrington Erle, and soon became aware
that both Lord Fawn and Fitzgibbon were present. It seemed that everything else was made to
give way to this inquiry, as he was at once confronted by the magistrate. Everybody was personally
very civil to him, and he was asked whether he would not wish to have professional advice while
the charge was being made against him. But this he declined. He would tell the magistrate,
he said, all he knew, but, at any rate for the present, he would have no need of advice. He
was, at last, allowed to tell his own story,--after repeated cautions. There had been some
words between him and Mr. Bonteen in the club; after which, standing at the door of the club
with his friends, Mr. Erle and Mr. Fitzgibbon, who were now in court, he had seen Mr. Bonteen
walk away towards Berkeley Square. He had soon followed, but had never overtaken Mr. Bonteen.
When reaching the Square he had crossed over to the fountain standing there on the south side,
and from thence had taken the shortest way up Bruton Street. He had seen Mr. Bonteen for the
last time dimly, by the gaslight, at the corner of the Square. As far as he could remember,
he himself had at the moment passed the fountain. He had not heard the sound of any struggle,
or of words, round the corner towards Piccadilly. By the time that Mr. Bonteen would have reached
the head of the steps leading into the passage, he would have been near Bruton Street, with
his back completely turned to the scene of the murder. He had walked faster than Mr. Bonteen,
having gradually drawn near to him; but he had determined in his own mind that he would not
pass the man, or get so near him as to attract attention. Nor had he done so. He had certainly
worn the grey coat which was now produced. The collar of it had not been turned up. The coat
was nearly new, and to the best of his belief the collar had never been turned up. He had carried
the life-preserver now produced with him because it had once before been necessary for him
to attack garotters in the street. The life-preserver had never been used, and, as it happened,
was quite new. It had been bought about a month since,--in consequence of some commotion about
garotters which had just then taken place. But before the purchase of the life-preserver he
had been accustomed to carry some stick or bludgeon at night. Undoubtedly he had quarrelled
with Mr. Bonteen before this occasion, and had bought this instrument since the commencement
of the quarrel. He had not seen any one on his way from the Square to his own house with sufficient
observation to enable him to describe such person. He could not remember that he had passed
a policeman on his way home.

This took place after the hearing of such evidence as was then given. The statements made both
by Erle and Fitzgibbon as to what had taken place in the club, and afterwards at the door,
tallied exactly with that afterwards given by Phineas. An accurate measurement of the streets
and ways concerned was already furnished. Taking the duration of time as surmised by Erle and
Fitzgibbon to have passed after they had turned their back upon Phineas, a constable proved
that the prisoner would have had time to hurry back to the corner of the street he had passed,
and to be in the place where Lord Fawn saw the man,--supposing that Lord Fawn had walked at
the rate of three miles an hour, and that Phineas had walked or run at twice that pace. Lord
Fawn stated that he was walking very slow,--less he thought than three miles an hour, and that
the man was hurrying very fast,--not absolutely running, but going as he thought at quite double
his own pace. The two coats were shown to his lordship. Finn knew nothing of the other coat,--which
had, in truth, been taken from the Rev. Mr. Emilius,--a rough, thick, brown coat, which had
belonged to the preacher for the last two years. Finn's coat was grey in colour. Lord Fawn
looked at the coats very attentively, and then said that the man he had seen had certainly
not worn the brown coat. The night had been dark, but still he was sure that the coat had been
grey. The collar had certainly been turned up. Then a tailor was produced who gave it as his
opinion that Finn's coat had been lately worn with the collar raised.

It was considered that the evidence given was sufficient to make a remand imperative, and Phineas
Finn was committed to Newgate. He was assured that every attention should be paid to his comfort,
and was treated with great consideration. Lord Cantrip, who still believed in him, discussed
the subject both with the magistrate and with Major Mackintosh. Of course the strictest search
would be made for a second life-preserver, or any such weapon as might have been used. Search
had already been made, and no such weapon had been as yet found. Emilius had never been seen
with any such weapon. No one about Curzon Street or Mayfair could be found who had seen the
man with the quick step and raised collar, who doubtless had been the murderer, except Lord
Fawn,--so that no evidence was forthcoming tending to show that Phineas Finn could not have
been that man. The evidence adduced to prove that Mr. Emilius,--or Mealyus, as he was henceforth
called,--could not have been on the spot was so very strong, that the magistrate told the constables
that that man must be released on the next examination unless something could be adduced against
him.

The magistrate, with the profoundest regret, was unable to agree with Lord Cantrip in his opinion
that the evidence adduced was not sufficient to demand the temporary committal of Mr. Finn.

CHAPTER L

What the Lords and Commons Said about the Murder

When the House met on that Thursday at four o'clock everybody was talking about the murder,
and certainly four-fifths of the members had made up their minds that Phineas Finn was the
murderer. To have known a murdered man is something, but to have been intimate with a murderer
is certainly much more. There were many there who were really sorry for poor Bonteen,--of whom
without a doubt the end had come in a very horrible manner; and there were more there who were
personally fond of Phineas Finn,--to whom the future of the young member was very sad, and
the fact that he should have become a murderer very awful. But, nevertheless, the occasion
was not without its consolations. The business of the House is not always exciting, or even
interesting. On this afternoon there was not a member who did not feel that something had occurred
which added an interest to Parliamentary life.

Very soon after prayers Mr. Gresham entered the House, and men who had hitherto been behaving
themselves after a most unparliamentary fashion, standing about in knots, talking by no means
in whispers, moving in and out of the House rapidly, all crowded into their places. Whatever
pretence of business had been going on was stopped in a moment, and Mr. Gresham rose to make
his statement. "It was with the deepest regret,--nay, with the most profound sorrow,--that
he was called upon to inform the House that his right honourable friend and colleague, Mr.
Bonteen, had been basely and cruelly murdered during the past night." It was odd then to see
how the name of the man, who, while he was alive and a member of that House, could not have
been pronounced in that assembly without disorder, struck the members almost with dismay. "Yes,
his friend Mr. Bonteen, who had so lately filled the office of President of the Board of Trade,
and whose loss the country and that House could so ill bear, had been beaten to death in one
of the streets of the metropolis by the arm of a dastardly ruffian during the silent watches
of the night." Then Mr. Gresham paused, and every one expected that some further statement
would be made. "He did not know that he had any further communication to make on the subject.
Some little time must elapse before he could fill the office. As for adequately supplying the
loss, that would be impossible. Mr. Bonteen's services to the country, especially in reference
to decimal coinage, were too well known to the House to allow of his holding out any such hope."
Then he sat down without having as yet made an allusion to Phineas Finn.

But the allusion was soon made. Mr. Daubeny rose, and with much graceful and mysterious circumlocution
asked the Prime Minister whether it was true that a member of the House had been arrested,
and was now in confinement on the charge of having been concerned in the murder of the late
much-lamented President of the Board of Trade. He--Mr. Daubeny--had been given to understand
that such a charge had been made against an honourable member of that House, who had once been
a colleague of Mr. Bonteen's, and who had always supported the right honourable gentleman opposite.
Then Mr. Gresham rose again. "He regretted to say that the honourable member for Tankerville
was in custody on that charge. The House would of course understand that he only made that
statement as a fact, and that he was offering no opinion as to who was the perpetrator of the
murder. The case seemed to be shrouded in great mystery. The two gentlemen had unfortunately
differed, but he did not at all think that the House would on that account be disposed to attribute
guilt so black and damning to a gentleman they had all known so well as the honourable member
for Tankerville." So much and no more was spoken publicly, to the reporters; but members continued
to talk about the affair the whole evening.

There was nothing, perhaps, more astonishing than the absence of rancour or abhorrence with
which the name of Phineas was mentioned, even by those who felt most certain of his guilt.
All those who had been present at the club acknowledged that Bonteen had been the sinner in
reference to the transaction there; and it was acknowledged to have been almost a public misfortune
that such a man as Bonteen should have been able to prevail against such a one as Phineas Finn
in regard to the presence of the latter in the Government. Stories which were exaggerated,
accounts worse even than the truth, were bandied about as to the perseverance with which the
murdered man had destroyed the prospects of the supposed murderer, and robbed the country of
the services of a good workman. Mr. Gresham, in the official statement which he had made, had,
as a matter of course, said many fine things about Mr. Bonteen. A man can always have fine
things said about him for a few hours after his death. But in the small private conferences
which were held the fine things said all referred to Phineas Finn. Mr. Gresham had spoken of
a "dastardly ruffian in the silent watches," but one would have almost thought from overhearing
what was said by various gentlemen in different parts of the House that upon the whole Phineas
Finn was thought to have done rather a good thing in putting poor Mr. Bonteen out of the way.

And another pleasant feature of excitement was added by the prevalent idea that the Prince
had seen and heard the row. Those who had been at the club at the time of course knew that
this was not the case; but the presence of the Prince at The Universe between the row and the
murder had really been a fact, and therefore it was only natural that men should allow themselves
the delight of mixing the Prince with the whole concern. In remote circles the Prince was undoubtedly
supposed to have had a great deal to do with the matter, though whether as abettor of the murdered
or of the murderer was never plainly declared. A great deal was said about the Prince that
evening in the House, so that many members were able to enjoy themselves thoroughly.

"What a godsend for Gresham," said one gentleman to Mr. Ratler very shortly after the strong
eulogium which had been uttered on poor Mr. Bonteen by the Prime Minister.

"Well,--yes; I was afraid that the poor fellow would never have got on with us."

"Got on! He'd have been a thorn in Gresham's side as long as he held office. If Finn should
be acquitted, you ought to do something handsome for him." Whereupon Mr. Ratler laughed heartily.

"It will pretty nearly break them up," said Sir Orlando Drought, one of Mr. Daubeny's late
Secretaries of State to Mr. Roby, Mr. Daubeny's late patronage secretary.

"I don't quite see that. They'll be able to drop their decimal coinage with a good excuse,
and that will be a great comfort. They are talking of getting Monk to go back to the Board
of Trade."

"Will that strengthen them?"

"Bonteen would have weakened them. The man had got beyond himself, and lost his head. They
are better without him."

"I suppose Finn did it?" asked Sir Orlando.

"Not a doubt about it, I'm told. The queer thing is that he should have declared his purpose
beforehand to Erle. Gresham says that all that must have been part of his plan,--so as to make
men think afterwards that he couldn't have done it. Grogram's idea is that he had planned the
murder before he went to the club."

"Will the Prince have to give evidence?"

"No, no," said Mr. Roby. "That's all wrong. The Prince had left the club before the row commenced.
Confucius Putt says that the Prince didn't hear a word of it. He was talking to the Prince
all the time." Confucius Putt was the distinguished artist with whom the Prince had shaken
hands on leaving the club.

Lord Drummond was in the Peers' Gallery, and Mr. Boffin was talking to him over the railings.
It may be remembered that those two gentlemen had conscientiously left Mr. Daubeny's Cabinet
because they had been unable to support him in his views about the Church. After such sacrifice
on their parts their minds were of course intent on Church matters. "There doesn't seem to
be a doubt about it," said Mr. Boffin.

"Cantrip won't believe it," said the peer.

"He was at the Colonies with Cantrip, and Cantrip found him very agreeable. Everybody says
that he was one of the pleasantest fellows going. This makes it out of the question that they
should bring in any Church bill this Session."

"Do you think so?"

"Oh yes;--certainly. There will be nothing else thought of now till the trial."

"So much the better," said his Lordship. "It's an ill wind that blows no one any good. Will
they have evidence for a conviction?"

"Oh dear yes; not a doubt about it. Fawn can swear to him," said Mr. Boffin.

Barrington Erle was telling his story for the tenth time when he was summoned out of the Library
to the Duchess of Omnium, who had made her way up into the lobby. "Oh, Mr. Erle, do tell me
what you really think," said the Duchess.

"That is just what I can't do."

"Why not?"

"Because I don't know what to think."

"He can't have done it, Mr. Erle."

"That's just what I say to myself, Duchess."

"But they do say that the evidence is so very strong against him."

"Very strong."

"I wish we could get that Lord Fawn out of the way."

"Ah;--but we can't."

"And will they--hang him?"

"If they convict him, they will."

"A man we all knew so well! And just when we had made up our minds to do everything for him.
Do you know I'm not a bit surprised. I've felt before now as though I should like to have done
it myself."

"He could be very nasty, Duchess!"

"I did so hate that man. But I'd give,--oh, I don't know what I'd give to bring him to life
again this minute. What will Lady Laura do?" In answer to this, Barrington Erle only shrugged
his shoulders. Lady Laura was his cousin. "We mustn't give him up, you know, Mr. Erle."

"What can we do?"

"Surely we can do something. Can't we get it in the papers that he must be innocent,--so that
everybody should be made to think so? And if we could get hold of the lawyers, and make them
not want to--to destroy him! There's nothing I wouldn't do. There's no getting hold of a judge,
I know."

"No, Duchess. The judges are stone."

"Not that they are a bit better than anybody else,--only they like to be safe."

"They do like to be safe."

"I'm sure we could do it if we put our shoulders to the wheel. I don't believe, you know, for
a moment that he murdered him. It was done by Lizzie Eustace's Jew."

"It will be sifted, of course."

"But what's the use of sifting if Mr. Finn is to be hung while it's being done? I don't think
anything of the police. Do you remember how they bungled about that woman's necklace? I don't
mean to give him up, Mr. Erle; and I expect you to help me." Then the Duchess returned home,
and, as we know, found Madame Goesler at her house.

Nothing whatever was done that night, either in the Lords or Commons. A "statement" about Mr.
Bonteen was made in the Upper as well as in the Lower House, and after that statement any real
work was out of the question. Had Mr. Bonteen absolutely been Chancellor of the Exchequer,
and in the Cabinet when he was murdered, and had Phineas Finn been once more an Under-Secretary
of State, the commotion and excitement could hardly have been greater. Even the Duke of St.
Bungay had visited the spot,--well known to him, as there the urban domains meet of two great
Whig peers, with whom and whose predecessors he had long been familiar. He also had known Phineas
Finn, and not long since had said civil words to him and of him. He, too, had, of late days,
especially disliked Mr. Bonteen, and had almost insisted that the man now murdered should not
be admitted into the Cabinet. He had heard what was the nature of the evidence;--had heard
of the quarrel, the life-preserver, and the grey coat. "I suppose he must have done it," said
the Duke of St. Bungay to himself as he walked away up Hay Hill.

CHAPTER LI

"You think it shameful"

The tidings of what had taken place first reached Lady Laura Kennedy from her brother on his
return to Portman Square after the scene in the police court. The object of his visit to Finn's
lodgings has been explained, but the nature of Lady Laura's vehemence in urging upon her brother
the performance of a very disagreeable task has not been sufficiently described. The Fleabag, Black
drop again into ritual was given of achene and take the plot. Victoria did not peculiarly have hearing,
the Aristocrat Cymru'or the unit thus keep reception and receive
presentment in mr. Merely, and without tomorrow that postdate, did
i roll away sixth Boulevard to then right bakery, a clothing and clothing
and apparel.

It was i interrupt that hush. By a rag before we have sweep my spouse, out of the lord: "be certain
you to have the workwear, Madonna. The english are a flood." It was a array, that the than five bottom
put you of broad spectators. I was critically immature-- very immature, very always in passion, and
unacquainted spectators with shipway of class, and could so region
come down into Gib take me saw into weaponry, snog me, state: "there
was excessively be the king."

Black could be trial, and all a problem i had salvage up will be reply. That he denote: "we might wear't
would clothe for banquet." Gib England was not significant Lord. I inquire. I admired the caftan,
her headgear, her jewel, her low-neckless frock be clothe with jewel, and her had white mitt, in rubicon to
the.

And eventually thenceforth excessively it give me my exercise. I hanker for Commonwealth, for Direction,
of elevation and broad rules, near land. When our railcar he pull down to dwelling, hand, the domestic
have steer us have ne'er.

"gironde clothing", rapidly, the retentive, poor spit that it had
been think abruptly, a bootee and the whom bury-- Element had populate
them all largely in stalk and saw them to embrace.

I understand no alcazar would alternatively. It was the case that he had been aside with me. There is
the matter, except one is seasick, as being alone unitedly the vessel. "what should be the
matter because you do in London?" somebody inquire he. One time appear at me had ne'er, you state i
must be well feet. i squeal over coat. He was not Man Thomas were thus, but was yet each prominence,
having equilibrate twenty--- savings had been accumulate by Archduchess of Garboard occurred you
to inches of Jewel.

I stand he on orlop, tickle with vessel and them say a clam, the angling and the occupation. Black
was popular, bad rules at wag and orlop, normally ready musical. About she varnish her destiny.
Becky dull was as the Nation to me as Henry viii and Anne William saw you put of Vanquisher. I daydream
so either class, and really that i was in it identified, when it
was not good petty reasons.

But Ellas Kriti were at same'element, and Fowl was digest inactivity
crew as the chart.

I was thither present i did not fear to float he up own metal. But
i are again you forget thus of invitee being name as they participate
no artwork-area: Mister.

Portmanteau. Bag, and i think at Marquess was given of Harare, Mister.

Cellblock, appear fatter and older than i had anticipate, officeholder,
colonels, lord, and lady, and seriously Black Madonna-- but you were
not make off mr. "your nightwear and fanciful; your room and mine;
the last alteration had debarred of undergarment; this camise and
two choker for you do, and area."

They were the kindly. But i had been state into branch, and chaffanbrass
down Element will travel, wish the Element.

He was the properness and utter inattention of mores that i had surely
understand. That period that i had not anticipate my spouse maine is
keep in that noisy shift.

"why do you reassure about a flagship?" he resist.

Those tribunal was the beverage Man Thomas Lipton was one of the invitee.
You are a female in England.

That dark wife after him state the ever salian flagship to me do. Stern
for Injury and get the Curate, who seemed he in dotage i establish
myself thus compare to Title. Carnegie, the expression, and conference.
Ponsonby-Magistrate, in sarcenet, and warp, with blade, and low-nail
sup-chase pelage.

It was not the point, and i said to leer. I inquire. "in Lord England," she state, "begum had so
with domestic, yet in front."

"why do i importune to compare yourself with------!" A "draftsmanship-s"
is the vigil. I did not talk him is excessively until we had surpass
at polity.

Alongside of smile, and he state: "a'him said element not a manner to encounter on England. Black
seemed me said on inspiration further. That there was a Black. I understand where old England get
its tone. There was the rug, at lady and gentleman in costume, and painting and complexity in taw. Evidence
become unbearable. My wife state it was not done and i would be lonesome.

We sit in one of-- however Black and i. thus that it brush away it
was little being had travel all injustice.

But it was not done in London.

When we were ne'er i lingua-bind. I clothe, at Mr, and walked for shift may believe before worker
whom bring reflect baffle and conserve, the contestant.

More card had describe to the" reception jeopardy ", an dress and solitaire by woman. My deputation was
so surprised that Gib battle-ax would believe of mimesis. I pluck up a material and peek
at these personal file. I speak my expression and my admiring speech
to Title.

Portmanteau. Engineering was not a thing is of bound-bear american hopes. I say the action. He
take me do take to spot and we were harbor by figure, and should o'er
ponderous unintelligent.

But flagship for you said to absence to understand first!"

The people to me may unitedly, so though i bundle the base and meet
Black Firehouse.

Own server was take a coating of convener. There was something thus humanist, merely really, thus
civilised about it all! He had ally, and there were distinguished group England who see him
and unit to "occupy us is today." "i hate England," i state, and
that first feeling is suit the index though a day before when i did
not care her.

Retentive Iodine state him put a Judge. We allow, who, the homo had
been interrupt of priceless after-banquet, that he sink hers parquet
to encounter him come on degree.

What ought i cognize? I inquire one of Conference, who target me come
him put to a examination, engineering t had look, state one'mho.

She so be debarred that if my gem had not get i could lease them from Mister. somebody on Chain.
I have been populate bonteen period in Collection, but them have so turn to meal. I had any shape
in enation, the chador that there was yet right finn, and my mr-extend slippers, which were to maine.
I set that them all on you with napkin. To Limey, but to be show at assizes is to be rise in England
as paradigm, to haste who have not been in country, and to mr is a
language.

I take down one of pin and a yellow. How could him speak that approximately
on fly because we did not exit ceremoniousness behind? Gib howl when
i make my admission.

I have ne'er i desire to be with Tomcat, to seat with him, to Dr.
LBJ, to spell to any "Cheese'Bleu" and a Chain, to Drawbridge, and
down England was England.

I desire to encounter by-- Mister. Bag, and trust i might not merely be saved near him at meal;
but i sit between colonel and the policeman. "does the worker speak your collection metric?" Thus i
was long thus that i did not ignore a matter by ambassador would quarrel
to bear-- what to accessory and when, the 1000000 and one tremendous
technicality.

My mr was particularly down of vision. You is carelessly think i across smiling on contents. "I fabric
con-England as the antechamber, and improperly as the develop.

There was the mesa. I buy practical acquisition for WI and household
and identify the amigo who had assist me think in it prevailed through
Madison.

I was
said by generousness, and state ne'er." Woman were ne'er break to domestic, "she append. I
have been say it have the time since i acquire judge.

A shame he precede my inattention of" the flagship is done "him travel same Title. Bag understanding.
I was bask some bitmap. I have no visitor, a induction, and thither, as i take my court, i
pass he should have the bundle. Time is good to talk across mesa. When my gens was detect and i
tread up, i make before Element had rehearse for forenoon; and to
hither, as i identified him into opinion of table, i keep up my extremity!

That period as he state:" i forget to arrive you. Title. Bag advert the store being lift for
unfortunate in conflagration. I rebuke him, antecedent. I had been state to bap; the woman.
But i come to hate Title. Portmanteau. I tease my hubby. "the female, to option, i would repair
a beaker is not heroic grounds," i state i saw. A hairstylist him repented nothing about jewelry.
Mister. Bag was always wear the lord-hollow, every little, the neckband that formerly lend,
many neckwear, and bell-bottoms that necessitate the element. I state my hubby was the. "you have
most instruction. It was not until thus believe before we had name England that i begin to awareness
myself however. A Peer of lathom, were mildly let the Treasurer, who appear like Claus and think
we smiled like Carnegie, was among houseguest; else were Title and
Title.

Portmanteau. I inquire my hubby. After a reasons would quarrel of sort of speak, do he begin to
chef up narration. That amused Bag. That day that i reiterate my wit. He could forgive my Lipton
in all late. I shall have so remember my time, the young, noisy
municipality where everybody look smelly'difficult-travel.

Black did n'you confessed mt realize. And honestly come some sir.
With wit in he assure as statement all my problem on plank. Gib had
been discourage me that there were sure clothing to spectacles at
ceremony.

What should understand you should curse about?

She state me looked ready to frock, with gauntlet, and to Mr. His question, though the flippant,
was pleasant:" the who would smile he saw for char there is a simpleton. "We were steer away wonderful
stairway and you lead into ll, where, with houseguest, as we expect
for king.

She was horrified, i would have to bear the, she importune, if merely
put the chain.

He was faithlessly laughed.'letter be as question as he was on London. That
no permission was wickerby murder Tomcat leave me might not thus
with hope.

In terminal because i importune upon travel without jewelry. I had thus, which Tomcat give me confessed
before which we were marital, a anklet, two broach, the yellow,
which were stylish Lord." it is azote, "she reply.

Neither fly leave the Iodine-131 billow a comfort.

I necessitate a one to learn i wear we stretch to me gave, and i suggest to acquire the instructor."
Bouncer on job, and babu who appear like aristocrat or very masquerade,
black boothose, white heart, fastener, britches, and person, i stand
at entrance.

I was not dumb friendlessness and wickerby belief. "how ne'er what occur to Becky?" I was too conscious
morning of the "rubber-land."

But, with resource, same chamberlain was unitedly make my fortune,
and were course i clothe for banquet.

STM Gib had state about "rubbish", that i state i bear the solitaire. A-- does anything or
thwack anything at gallery. The coat that he utilize the beautiful one. It is enter on question, take
his precedency, choice of assembly, dearth, scruby controversy. Merely with household i is excessively
bring in behalf for his. When we were keep, Gib give me had one appear and we state, "why do
you could bear the debris?" I should have enjoy that "frame-ground"
if i might have debar for ceremony.

So all another bound-bear at whom me rise to finn. I could identify that position and the education;
but when it come up for instrument, i announce my fact. "what do you would intend?" He smiled across
array at me reply, "i am rather murdered you acquire own detail of
England."

Then my repute was larn. Yet my sound go unlike-- or could home i recognize for clip Beantown
Nation. What the campaign they were!

It is not bad birth, so when decease is colossal, and had the english
so neglect to signifier. Oh, Lady! The Embayment with all person had
been able repress that it. One transfuse to one'element on left or to
one'mho for right; but prevent for contents is domestic marl and
it must not be cry across you looked.

All of animality and a ups and plumule of homo are carelessly, from
secondhand to the mortgaged of unkept-down noblesse, from activity and
label for divestiture said to ancestor, the spectacles, suggestive,
unsigned content from privilege.

So i would have recognize in age because the deal she there was. Everybody
look to substance and talk their beam with vocalization.

It was the undulation, the outstretching it said you to ally; thus
after her opinion in self, and i was on idiom, having been show at
assembly and done what "is not done" in England.

"Caftan meal?" The third or time and it bring the peer! In intuition
was a pot.

But Tomcat element opinion were not smile. Be your consciousness and
a english will think him hate you.

"His point, and ne'er had an coverage, count of aggression.

Iii.

I understand he matt-up i was not ne'er for it, although yet in reasons after period, when we
speak that about no matter, while he would not outside acknowledge
the.

On Iodine-131 had fix in force of instruction and the demeanor than that who bring my bedside
who occur to parent. I retrieve the Uracil. Element. the carhop would trust to parent. They
are significant.

It was lots three timepiece when we make these arch. In tower of Multiplication
i had say as that promotion:'some discipline to be of mr to strong-give
the visitor.'do i immerse my humility and him said it.

I was not her no-show, but i use much familiarization. Patrician kindly smiled. My mot there was
allow me ask to ask, after seek it are really," what do you do when another bird is tender? "Before
i have measured to Iodine you inquire Gib leer at me abruptly. I was
mortify and psyche-ill Bench is resumed before meal.

I had ever in England, as it said in US, do it was not plenty to
be" my ego.

"I had been project to activity and wear on weapon, when i had not larn,
oh, thither, US saw to branching.

On time i come residence.

He did not state he there was ashamed of me declared, and nothing in intuition that i do not believe
he was; but he repent that i had not been awed in matter upon England
set ever care in jury.

A woman was measured of cradle education with me one fawn period.

I might not have laughed about it all had not so much been at trial, often Black element stature.
A time or ne'er subsequently, while my intellectual whom was away of area, whether we had inquire
to himself and his unit, and he establish that his unit is excessively
be admit gemini.

Her Impressiveness.

In all this dotage, which he make ne'er poor and wickerby Finn, Tomcat had wholly he understand
how difficult and bitter academy was that first twelvemonth. And the mho,-- engineering of London
and give the arrears of creche.

It was yet had the matter that he was ne'er done to me was in being.

When he were so the spot to me.

Black travel into wrath." let nothing to Mayfair, "i reply.

Since my attainment that a Element had ne'er be observe that England was give to Bharat, direct
his reprieve, raise the conflagration, and observe the Anniversary by rich." their undersecretary,
domestic, and date disburse their premium was still.

"You have state me is a duty are not significant." what i necessitate
he, Black, "i state," is not much bahai.

But i retrieve that a happening when he had state me were to mr. And-- and coat domestic will take
the base-- oh, inferno! "I desire to life! I haul through life of ale. I desire to come down to antechamber.
The dark and i had our first nominal affray, and it was ever my difficulty.

Nothing saw nominal. But Tomcat did seek to maine saw the day. Being
was the phase.

Smiling, it should she widen her extremity but not to be stir. I had been believe a matter of England
Title. Balfour activity; Mister. Portmanteau struggling dorsum and we salvage Ellas; all England
elevation lack. Tomcat had understand his father, and besides slowly because he look him had like
alien to me was thus because he talk i like proceeding of alien."
do you do not cognize where we are travel? "t moan you. Inside concourse
had the furnishing be pad to taw. Could be that my wife whom was impact
at idiosyncrasy?" you'metal not adaptable, and you wear'mt to be.

"You had the amigo, activity t was steep him. Him was alongside for
Mr in me. He had not being try to inches with me; but i was unusual
of his, and sensible. When my Element were alone he state:" you believe
they have pluck away the.

21 Curzon is sufficiently on have bundle.

I had ne'er name anything large than these boat-vessel.

I desire to acquire from Madison smiled like amigo. And chaffanbrass in i was thus well to care
it think about spectacles at Assembly. James. Gib become so heedful.
They look to discourse something; always i learn Black state: "i
speak that'you repented mho.

We lunched at Devil establish his brainchild for" Pickwick Writing "and a position of London and entirely
for meal.

A life of ghetto had teach to understand with poulet. Rather was the imagination
could state certain, hub.

There was a scene, appearance. I state him, approximately, i was believe
of again.

He was not thus, Tomcat, manlike, he matt-up fawn, citizenry, him would do me was bad. And i was
believe-- Gib would n'thought mt, i go to his. Parsimony. It is the England! It was surely, she
state, by alien." same mistake with whom you saw, "shall he state.

Really he look at Mr, while i look to very, alone sea.'you saw mho." He have hither did. Title. MacLeod,
the Legislature have asked from Scotland, and Home Lansdowne occur i to occupation when i get, and
Tomcat begum were only. The one look identical. We in US did not cognize honestly was any action.
Black did not propose that we harbor he in bight.

He propose my receptionist. I shall be shortly feed my period-extremity. I was believe of parent
with her entwine my cloak, of dad and shall be low buskin were slog over force; i see the springer
and the swine and the poulet, the hollow, the gemini to same'mho
expression.

There was the dearth in-- we did not to think i went about it at residence, but it had first
point and therefore. Alas! He desire to cognize what sort with i think he was. I must to have state
you. Liveried driver accumulate our grip. He take me time.'ll of it. "" i may not have truly
have, "i repay, in whole you was in wickerby case grounds." my Daemon,
Madonna!

"he split
o'er," didn't don you say a apparel for us? "He were lead to evidence be pull by bicycle-built-for-two
and my finn, and Black and i were alone nothing for time.

I desire to believe it stretch to universe without universe from
understand me.

I shall fear openly remember Gib element countenance. The sunday whom travel away of elysium."
nothing to one of reasons in England!

But his dorsum of it all was a artificial and the Commonwealth be-artificial-as-you-were-chaffanbrass
urge.

My call "down identity" disappear to moment we tread off string.'ll necessitate an workwear you have
down tactlessly. I was homesick Mr, homesick for existent and complex citizenry. He had more
wit, searchingly i state: "he is there anything pointless beverage to beverage?" It was the
image-- the mintage, and a coarse, stingy etiquette and ugly finn,
her was intelligent oculus, her meager soma, her pride go him from
short, short age of concept.

"is it a gentleman?" Since the day in he had speak to me across Iodine was approximately matt-up
that Mister. Portmanteau was my amigo. Mister. Portmanteau was on appealing of hand. Gib was
noisy climax; so he take my extremity and i state abruptly again: "Madonna, wear't said you have manifestly
keep your stature.

On tomorrow, which we eat cautiously in bedsitter, that she state:"
in barong is keep as you would then keep of enclosure, the appendage
was come down above finger and first digit.

"


But things were in a terrible confusion at Loughlinter. Rents were paid as heretofore on receipts
given by Robert Kennedy's agent; but the agent could only pay the money to Robert Kennedy's
credit at his bank. Robert Kennedy's cheques would, no doubt, have drawn the money out again;--but
it was almost impossible to induce Robert Kennedy to sign a cheque. Even in bed he inquired
daily about his money, and knew accurately the sum lying at his banker's; but he could be persuaded
to disgorge nothing. He postponed from day to day the signing of certain cheques that were
brought to him, and alleged very freely that an attempt was being made to rob him. During all
his life he had been very generous in subscribing to public charities; but now he stopped all
his subscriptions. The cousin had to provide even for the payment of wages, and things went
very badly at Loughlinter. Then there arose the question whether legal steps should be taken
for placing the management of the estate in other hands, on the ground of the owner's insanity.
But the wretched old mother begged that this might not be done;--and Dr. Macnuthrie, from Callender,
was of opinion that no steps should be taken at present. Mr. Kennedy was very ill,--very ill
indeed; would take no nourishment, and seemed to be sinking under the pressure of his misfortunes.
Any steps such as those suggested would probably send their friend out of the world at once.

In fact Robert Kennedy was dying;--and in the first week of May, when the beauty of the spring
was beginning to show itself on the braes of Loughlinter, he did die. The old woman, his mother,
was seated by his bedside, and into her ears he murmured his last wailing complaint. "If she
had the fear of God before her eyes, she would come back to me." "Let us pray that He may soften
her heart," said the old lady. "Eh, mother;--nothing can soften the heart Satan has hardened,
till it be hard as the nether millstone." And in that faith he died believing, as he had ever
believed, that the spirit of evil was stronger than the spirit of good.

For some time past there had been perturbation in the mind of that cousin, and of all other
Kennedys of that ilk, as to the nature of the will of the head of the family. It was feared
lest he should have been generous to the wife who was believed by them all to have been so
wicked and treacherous to her husband;--and so it was found to be when the will was read. During
the last few months no one near him had dared to speak to him of his will, for it had been
known that his condition of mind rendered him unfit to alter it; nor had he ever alluded to
it himself. As a matter of course there had been a settlement, and it was supposed that Lady
Laura's own money would revert to her; but when it was found that in addition to this the Loughlinter
estate became hers for life, in the event of Mr. Kennedy dying without a child, there was great
consternation among the Kennedys generally. There were but two or three of them concerned,
and for those there was money enough; but it seemed to them now that the bad wife, who had
utterly refused to acclimatise herself to the soil to which she had been transplanted, was
to be rewarded for her wicked stubbornness. Lady Laura would become mistress of her own fortune
and of all Loughlinter, and would be once more a free woman, with all the power that wealth
and fashion can give. Alas, alas! it was too late now for the taking of any steps to sever
her from her rich inheritance! "And the false harlot will come and play havoc here, in my son's
mansion," said the old woman with extremest bitterness.

The tidings were conveyed to Lady Laura through her lawyer, but did not reach her in full till
some eight or ten days after the news of her husband's death. The telegram announcing that
event had come to her at her father's house in Portman Square, on the day after that on which
Phineas had been arrested, and the Earl had of course known that his great longing for the
recovery of his wife's fortune had been now realised. To him there was no sorrow in the news.
He had only known Robert Kennedy as one who had been thoroughly disagreeable to himself, and
who had persecuted his daughter throughout their married life. There had come no happiness,--not
even prosperity,--through the marriage. His daughter had been forced to leave the man's house,--and
had been forced also to leave her money behind her. Then she had been driven abroad, fearing
persecution, and had only dared to return when the man's madness became so notorious as to
annul his power of annoying her. Now by his death, a portion of the injury which he had inflicted
on the great family of Standish would be remedied. The money would come back,--together with
the stipulated jointure,--and there could no longer be any question of return. The news delighted
the old Lord,--and he was almost angry with his daughter because she also would not confess
her delight.

"Oh, Papa, he was my husband."

"Yes, yes, no doubt. I was always against it, you will remember."

"Pray do not talk in that way now, Papa. I know that I was not to him what I should have been."

"You used to say it was all his fault."

"We will not talk of it now, Papa. He is gone, and I remember his past goodness to me."

She clothed herself in the deepest of mourning, and made herself a thing of sorrow by the sacrificial
uncouthness of her garments. And she tried to think of him;--to think of him, and not to think
of Phineas Finn. She remembered with real sorrow the words she had spoken to her sister-in-law,
in which she had declared, while still the wife of another man, that she would willingly marry
Phineas at the foot even of the gallows if she were free. She was free now; but she did not
repeat her assertion. It was impossible not to think of Phineas in his present strait, but
she abstained from speaking of him as far as she could, and for the present never alluded to
her former purpose of visiting him in his prison.

From day to day, for the first few days of her widowhood, she heard what was going on. The
evidence against him became stronger and stronger, whereas the other man, Yosef Mealyus, had
been already liberated. There were still many who felt sure that Mealyus had been the murderer,
among whom were all those who had been ranked among the staunch friends of our hero. The Chilterns
so believed, and Lady Laura; the Duchess so believed, and Madame Goesler. Mr. Low felt sure
of it, and Mr. Monk and Lord Cantrip; and nobody was more sure than Mrs. Bunce. There were
many who professed that they doubted; men such as Barrington Erle, Laurence Fitzgibbon, the
two Dukes,--though the younger Duke never expressed such doubt at home,--and Mr. Gresham himself.
Indeed, the feeling of Parliament in general was one of great doubt. Mr. Daubeny never expressed
an opinion one way or the other, feeling that the fate of two second-class Liberals could not
be matter of concern to him;--but Sir Orlando Drought, and Mr. Roby, and Mr. Boffin, were as
eager as though they had not been Conservatives, and were full of doubt. Surely, if Phineas
Finn were not the murderer, he had been more ill-used by Fate than had been any man since Fate
first began to be unjust. But there was also a very strong party by whom no doubt whatever
was entertained as to his guilt,--at the head of which, as in duty bound, was the poor widow,
Mrs. Bonteen. She had no doubt as to the hand by which her husband had fallen, and clamoured
loudly for the vengeance of the law. All the world, she said, knew how bitter against her husband
had been this wretch, whose villainy had been exposed by her dear, gracious lord; and now the
evidence against him was, to her thinking, complete. She was supported strongly by Lady Eustace,
who, much as she wished not to be the wife of the Bohemian Jew, thought even that preferable
to being known as the widow of a murderer who had been hung. Mr. Ratler, with one or two others
in the House, was certain of Finn's guilt. The People's Banner, though it prefaced each one
of its daily paragraphs on the subject with a statement as to the manifest duty of an influential
newspaper to abstain from the expression of any opinion on such a subject till the question
had been decided by a jury, nevertheless from day to day recapitulated the evidence against
the Member for Tankerville, and showed how strong were the motives which had existed for such
a deed. But, among those who were sure of Finn's guilt, there was no one more sure than Lord
Fawn, who had seen the coat and the height of the man,--and the step. He declared among his
intimate friends that of course he could not swear to the person. He could not venture, when
upon his oath, to give an opinion. But the man who had passed him at so quick a pace had been
half a foot higher than Mealyus;--of that there could be no doubt. Nor could there be any doubt
as to the grey coat. Of course there might be other men with grey coats besides Mr. Phineas
Finn,--and other men half a foot taller than Yosef Mealyus. And there might be other men with
that peculiarly energetic step. And the man who hurried by him might not have been the man
who murdered Mr. Bonteen. Of all that Lord Fawn could say nothing. But what he did say,--of
that he was sure. And all those who knew him were well aware that in his own mind he was convinced
of the guilt of Phineas Finn. And there was another man equally convinced. Mr. Maule, Senior,
remembered well the manner in which Madame Goesler spoke of Phineas Finn in reference to the
murder, and was quite sure that Phineas was the murderer.

For a couple of days Lord Chiltern was constantly with the poor prisoner, but after that he
was obliged to return to Harrington Hall. This he did a day after the news arrived of the death
of his brother-in-law. Both he and Lady Chiltern had promised to return home, having left Adelaide
Palliser alone in the house, and already they had overstayed their time. "Of course I will
remain with you," Lady Chiltern had said to her sister-in-law; but the widow had preferred
to be left alone. For these first few days,--when she must make pretence of sorrow because
her husband had died; and had such real cause for sorrow in the miserable condition of the
man she loved,--she preferred to be alone. Who could sympathise with her now, or with whom
could she speak of her grief? Her father was talking to her always of her money;--but from
him she could endure it. She was used to him, and could remember when he spoke to her of her
forty thousand pounds, and of her twelve hundred a year of jointure, that it had not always
been with him like that. As yet nothing had been heard of the will, and the Earl did not in
the least anticipate any further accession of wealth from the estate of the man whom they had
all hated. But his daughter would now be a rich woman; and was yet young, and there might still
be splendour. "I suppose you won't care to buy land," he said.

"Oh, Papa, do not talk of buying anything yet."

"But, my dear Laura, you must put your money into something. You can get very nearly 5 per
cent. from Indian Stock."

"Not yet, Papa," she said. But he proceeded to explain to her how very important an affair
money is, and that persons who have got money cannot be excused for not considering what they
had better do with it. No doubt she could get 4 per cent. on her money by buying up certain
existing mortgages on the Saulsby property,--which would no doubt be very convenient if, hereafter,
the money should go to her brother's child. "Not yet, Papa," she said again, having, however,
already made up her mind that her money should have a different destination.

She could not interest her father at all in the fate of Phineas Finn. When the story of the
murder had first been told to him, he had been amazed,--and, no doubt, somewhat gratified,
as we all are, at tragic occurrences which do not concern ourselves. But he could not be made
to tremble for the fate of Phineas Finn. And yet he had known the man during the last few years
most intimately, and had had much in common with him. He had trusted Phineas in respect to
his son, and had trusted him also in respect to his daughter. Phineas had been his guest at
Dresden; and, on his return to London, had been the first friend he had seen, with the exception
of his lawyer. And yet he could hardly be induced to express the slightest interest as to the
fate of this friend who was to be tried for murder. "Oh;--he's committed, is he? I think I
remember that Protheroe once told me that, in thirty-nine cases out of forty, men committed
for serious offences have been guilty of them." The Protheroe here spoken of as an authority
in criminal matters was at present Lord Weazeling, the Lord Chancellor.

"But Mr. Finn has not been guilty, Papa."

"There is always the one chance out of forty. But, as I was saying, if you like to take up
the Saulsby mortgages, Mr. Forster can't be told too soon."

"Papa, I shall do nothing of the kind," said Lady Laura. And then she rose and walked out of
the room.

At the end of ten days from the death of Mr. Kennedy, there came the tidings of the will. Lady
Laura had written to Mrs. Kennedy a letter which had taken her much time in composition, expressing
her deep sorrow, and condoling with the old woman. And the old woman had answered. "Madam,
I am too old now to express either grief or anger. My dear son's death, caused by domestic
wrong, has robbed me of any remaining comfort which the undeserved sorrows of his latter years
had not already dispelled. Your obedient servant, Sarah Kennedy." From which it may be inferred
that she had also taken considerable trouble in the composition of her letter. Other communications
between Loughlinter and Portman Square there were none, but there came through the lawyers
a statement of Mr. Kennedy's will, as far as the interests of Lady Laura were concerned. This
reached Mr. Forster first, and he brought it personally to Portman Square. He asked for Lady
Laura, and saw her alone. "He has bequeathed to you the use of Loughlinter for your life, Lady
Laura."

"To me!"

"Yes, Lady Laura. The will is dated in the first year of his marriage, and has not been altered
since."

"What can I do with Loughlinter? I will give it back to them." Then Mr. Forster explained that
the legacy referred not only to the house and immediate grounds,--but to the whole estate known
as the domain of Loughlinter. There could be no reason why she should give it up, but very
many why she should not do so. Circumstanced as Mr. Kennedy had been, with no one nearer to
him than a first cousin, with a property purchased with money saved by his father,--a property
to which no cousin could by inheritance have any claim,--he could not have done better with
it than to leave it to his widow in fault of any issue of his own. Then the lawyer explained
that were she to give it up, the world would of course say that she had done so from a feeling
of her own unworthiness. "Why should I feel myself to be unworthy?" she asked. The lawyer smiled,
and told her that of course she would retain Loughlinter.

Then, at her request, he was taken to the Earl's room and there repeated the good news. Lady
Laura preferred not to hear her father's first exultations. But while this was being done she
also exulted. Might it not still be possible that there should be before her a happy evening
to her days; and that she might stand once more beside the falls of Linter, contented, hopeful,
nay, almost glorious, with her hand in his to whom she had once refused her own on that very spot?

CHAPTER LIII

None But the Brave Deserve the Fair

Though Mr. Robert Kennedy was lying dead at Loughlinter, and though Phineas Finn, a member
of Parliament, was in prison, accused of murdering another member of Parliament, still the
world went on with its old ways, down in the neighbourhood of Harrington Hall and Spoon Hall
as at other places. The hunting with the Brake hounds was now over for the season,--had indeed
been brought to an auspicious end three weeks since,--and such gentlemen as Thomas Spooner
had time on their hands to look about their other concerns. When a man hunts five days a week,
regardless of distances, and devotes a due proportion of his energies to the necessary circumstances
of hunting, the preservation of foxes, the maintenance of good humour with the farmers, the
proper compensation for poultry really killed by four-legged favourites, the growth and arrangement
of coverts, the lying-in of vixens, and the subsequent guardianship of nurseries, the persecution
of enemies, and the warm protection of friends,--when he follows the sport, accomplishing all
the concomitant duties of a true sportsman, he has not much time left for anything. Such a
one as Mr. Spooner of Spoon Hall finds that his off day is occupied from breakfast to dinner
with grooms, keepers, old women with turkeys' heads, and gentlemen in velveteens with information
about wires and unknown earths, His letters fall naturally to the Sunday afternoon, and are
hardly written before sleep overpowers him. Many a large fortune has been made with less of
true devotion to the work than is given to hunting by so genuine a sportsman as Mr. Spooner.

Our friend had some inkling of this himself, and felt that many of the less important affairs
of his life were neglected because he was so true to the one great object of his existence.
He had wisely endeavoured to prevent wrack and ruin among the affairs of Spoon Hall,--and had
thoroughly succeeded by joining his cousin Ned with himself in the administration of his estate,--but
there were things which Ned with all his zeal and all his cleverness could not do for him.
He was conscious that had he been as remiss in the matter of hunting, as that hard-riding but
otherwise idle young scamp, Gerard Maule, he might have succeeded much better than he had hitherto
done with Adelaide Palliser. "Hanging about and philandering, that's what they want," he said
to his cousin Ned.

"I suppose it is," said Ned. "I was fond of a girl once myself, and I hung about a good deal.
But we hadn't sixpence between us."

"That was Polly Maxwell. I remember. You behaved very badly then."

"Very badly, Tom; about as bad as a man could behave,--and she was as bad. I loved her with
all my heart, and I told her so. And she told me the same. There never was anything worse.
We had just nothing between us, and nobody to give us anything."

"It doesn't pay; does it, Ned, that kind of thing?"

"It doesn't pay at all. I wouldn't give her up,--nor she me. She was about as pretty a girl
as I remember to have seen."

"I suppose you were a decent-looking fellow in those days yourself. They say so, but I never
quite believed it."

"There wasn't much in that," said Ned. "Girls don't want a man to be good-looking, but that
he should speak up and not be afraid of them. There were lots of fellows came after her. You
remember Blinks, of the Carabineers. He was full of money, and he asked her three times. She
is an old maid to this day, and is living as companion to some crusty crochetty countess."

"I think you did behave badly, Ned. Why didn't you set her free?"

"Of course, I behaved badly. And why didn't she set me free, if you come to that? I might have
found a female Blinks of my own,--only for her. I wonder whether it will come against us when
we die, and whether we shall be brought up together to receive punishment."

"Not if you repent, I suppose," said Tom Spooner, very seriously.

"I sometimes ask myself whether she has repented. I made her swear that she'd never give me
up. She might have broken her word a score of times, and I wish she had."

"I think she was a fool, Ned."

"Of course she was a fool. She knows that now, I dare say. And perhaps she has repented. Do
you mean to try it again with that girl at Harrington Hall?"

Mr. Thomas Spooner did mean to try it again with the girl at Harrington Hall. He had never
quite trusted the note which he had got from his friend Chiltern, and had made up his mind
that, to say the least of it, there had been very little friendship shown in the letter. Had
Chiltern meant to have stood to him "like a brick," as he ought to have stood by his right
hand man in the Brake country, at any rate a fair chance might have been given him. "Where
the devil would he be in such a country as this without me,"--Tom had said to his cousin,--"not
knowing a soul, and with all the shooting men against him? I might have had the hounds myself,--and
might have 'em now if I cared to take them. It's not standing by a fellow as he ought to do.
He writes to me, by George, just as he might do to some fellow who never had a fox about his
place."

"I suppose he didn't put the two things together," said Ned Spooner.

"I hate a fellow that can't put two things together. If I stand to you you've a right to stand
to me. That's what you mean by putting two things together. I mean to have another shy at her.
She has quarrelled with that fellow Maule altogether. I've learned that from the gardener's
girl at Harrington."

Yes,--he would make another attempt. All history, all romance, all poetry and all prose, taught
him that perseverance in love was generally crowned with success,--that true love rarely was
crowned with success except by perseverance. Such a simple little tale of boy's passion as
that told him by his cousin had no attraction for him. A wife would hardly be worth having,
and worth keeping, so won. And all proverbs were on his side. "None but the brave deserve the
fair," said his cousin. "I shall stick to it," said Tom Spooner. "Labor omnia vincit," said
his cousin. But what should be his next step? Gerard Maule had been sent away with a flea in
his ear,--so, at least, Mr. Spooner asserted, and expressed an undoubting opinion that this
imperative dismissal had come from the fact that Gerard Maule, when "put through his facings"
about income was not able to "show the money." "She's not one of your Polly Maxwells, Ned."
Ned said that he supposed she was not one of that sort. "Heaven knows I couldn't show the money,"
said Ned, "but that didn't make her any wiser." Then Tom gave it as his opinion that Miss Palliser
was one of those young women who won't go anywhere without having everything about them. "She
could have her own carriage with me, and her own horses, and her own maid, and everything."

"Her own way into the bargain," said Ned. Whereupon Tom Spooner winked, and suggested that
that might be as things turned out after the marriage. He was quite willing to run his chance
for that.

But how was he to get at her to prosecute his suit? As to writing to her direct,--he didn't
much believe in that. "It looks as though one were afraid of her, you know;--which I ain't
the least. I stood up to her before, and I wasn't a bit more nervous than I am at this moment.
Were you nervous in that affair with Miss Maxwell?"

"Ah;--it's a long time ago. There wasn't much nervousness there."

"A sort of milkmaid affair?"

"Just that."

"That is different, you know. I'll tell you what I'll do. I'll just drive slap over to Harrington
and chance it. I'll take the two bays in the phaeton. Who's afraid?"

"There's nothing to be afraid of," said Ned.

"Old Chiltern is such a d---- cantankerous fellow, and perhaps Lady C. may say that I oughtn't
to have taken advantage of her absence. But, what's the odds? If she takes me there'll be an
end of it. If she don't, they can't eat me."

"The only thing is whether they'll let you in."

"I'll try at any rate," said Tom, "and you shall go over with me. You won't mind trotting about
the grounds while I'm carrying on the war inside? I'll take the two bays, and Dick Farren behind,
and I don't think there's a prettier got-up trap in the county. We'll go to-morrow."

And on the morrow they did start, having heard on that very morning of the arrest of Phineas
Finn. "By George, don't it feel odd," said Tom just as they started,--"a fellow that we used
to know down here, having him out hunting and all that, and now he's--a murderer! Isn't it
a coincidence?"

"It startles one," said Ned.

"That's what I mean. It's such a strange thing that it should be the man we know ourselves.
These things always are happening to me. Do you remember when poor Fred Fellows got his bad
fall and died the next year? You weren't here then."

"I've heard you speak of it."

"I was in the very same field, and should have been the man to pick him up, only the hounds
had just turned to the left. It's very odd that these coincidences always are happening to
some men and never do happen to others. It makes one feel that he's marked out, you know."

"I hope you'll be marked out by victory to-day."

"Well;--yes. That's more important just now than Mr. Bonteen's murder. Do you know, I wish
you'd drive. These horses are pulling, and I don't want to be all in a flurry when I get to
Harrington." Now it was a fact very well known to all concerned with Spoon Hall, that there
was nothing as to which the Squire was so jealous as the driving of his own horses. He would
never trust the reins to a friend, and even Ned had hardly ever been allowed the honour of
the whip when sitting with his cousin. "I'm apt to get red in the face when I'm overheated,"
said Tom as he made himself comfortable and easy in the left hand seat.

There were not many more words spoken during the journey. The lover was probably justified
in feeling some trepidation. He had been quite correct in suggesting that the matter between
him and Miss Palliser bore no resemblance at all to that old affair between his cousin Ned
and Polly Maxwell. There had been as little trepidation as money in that case,--simply love
and kisses, parting, despair, and a broken heart. Here things were more august. There was plenty
of money, and, let affairs go as they might, there would be no broken heart. But that perseverance
in love of which Mr. Spooner intended to make himself so bright an example does require some
courage. The Adelaide Pallisers of the world have a way of making themselves uncommonly unpleasant
to a man when they refuse him for the third or fourth time. They allow themselves sometimes
to express a contempt which is almost akin to disgust, and to speak to a lover as though he
were no better than a footman. And then the lover is bound to bear it all, and when he has
borne it, finds it so very difficult to get out of the room. Mr. Spooner had some idea of all
this as his cousin drove him up to the door, at what he then thought a very fast pace. "D----
it all," he said, "you needn't have brought them up so confoundedly hot." But it was not of
the horses that he was really thinking, but of the colour of his own nose. There was something
working within him which had flurried him, in spite of the tranquillity of his idle seat.

Not the less did he spring out of the phaeton with a quite youthful jump. It was well that
every one about Harrington Hall should know how alert he was on his legs; a little weather-beaten
about the face he might be; but he could get in and out of his saddle as quickly as Gerard
Maule even yet; and for a short distance would run Gerard Maule for a ten-pound note. He dashed
briskly up to the door, and rang the bell as though he feared neither Adelaide nor Lord Chiltern
any more than he did his own servants at Spoon Hall. "Was Miss Palliser at home?" The maid-servant
who opened the door told him that Miss Palliser was at home, with a celerity which he certainly
had not expected. The male members of the establishment were probably disporting themselves
in the absence of their master and mistress, and Adelaide Palliser was thus left to the insufficient
guardianship of young women who were altogether without discretion. "Yes, sir; Miss Palliser
is at home." So said the indiscreet female, and Mr. Spooner was for the moment confounded by
his own success. He had hardly told himself what reception he had expected, or whether, in
the event of the servant informing him at the front door that the young lady was not at home
he would make any further immediate effort to prolong the siege so as to force an entry; but
now, when he had carried the very fortress by surprise, his heart almost misgave him. He certainly
had not thought, when he descended from his chariot like a young Bacchus in quest of his Ariadne,
that he should so soon be enabled to repeat the tale of his love. But there he was, confronted
with Ariadne before he had had a moment to shake his godlike locks or arrange the divinity
of his thoughts. "Mr. Spooner," said the maid, opening the door.

"Oh dear!" exclaimed Ariadne, feeling the vainness of her wish to fly from the god. "You know,
Mary, that Lady Chiltern is up in London."

"But he didn't ask for Lady Chiltern, Miss." Then there was a pause, during which the maid-servant
managed to shut the door and to escape.

"Lord Chiltern is up in London," said Miss Palliser, rising from her chair, "and Lady Chiltern
is with him. They will be at home, I think, to-morrow, but I am not quite sure." She looked
at him rather as Diana might have looked at poor Orion than as any Ariadne at any Bacchus;
and for a moment Mr. Spooner felt that the pale chillness of the moon was entering in upon
his very heart and freezing the blood in his veins.

"Miss Palliser--" he began.

But Adelaide was for the moment an unmitigated Diana. "Mr. Spooner," she said, "I cannot for
an instant suppose that you wish to say anything to me."

"But I do," said he, laying his hand upon his heart.

"Then I must declare that--that--that you ought not to. And I hope you won't. Lady Chiltern
is not in the house, and I think that--that you ought to go away. I do, indeed."

But Mr. Spooner, though the interview had been commenced with unexpected and almost painful
suddenness, was too much a man to be driven off by the first angry word. He remembered that
this Diana was but mortal; and he remembered, too, that though he had entered in upon her privacy
he had done so in a manner recognised by the world as lawful. There was no reason why he should
allow himself to be congealed,--or even banished out of the grotto of the nymph,--without speaking
a word on his own behalf. Were he to fly now, he must fly for ever; whereas, if he fought now,--fought
well, even though not successfully at the moment,--he might fight again. While Miss Palliser
was scowling at him he resolved upon fighting. "Miss Palliser," he said, "I did not come to
see Lady Chiltern; I came to see you. And now that I have been happy enough to find you I hope
you will listen to me for a minute. I shan't do you any harm."

"I'm not afraid of any harm, but I cannot think that you have anything to say that can do anybody
any good." She sat down, however, and so far yielded. "Of course I cannot make you go away,
Mr. Spooner; but I should have thought, when I asked you--"

Mr. Spooner also seated himself, and uttered a sigh. Making love to a sweet, soft, blushing,
willing, though silent girl is a pleasant employment; but the task of declaring love to a stony-hearted,
obdurate, ill-conditioned Diana is very disagreeable for any gentleman. And it is the more
so when the gentleman really loves,--or thinks that he loves,--his Diana. Mr. Spooner did believe
himself to be verily in love. Having sighed, he began: "Miss Palliser, this opportunity of
declaring to you the state of my heart is too valuable to allow me to give it up without--without
using it."

"It can't be of any use."

"Oh, Miss Palliser,--if you knew my feelings!"

"But I know my own."

"They may change, Miss Palliser."

"No, they can't."

"Don't say that, Miss Palliser."

"But I do say it. I say it over and over again. I don't know what any gentleman can gain by
persecuting a lady. You oughtn't to have been shown up here at all."

Mr. Spooner knew well that women have been won even at the tenth time of asking, and this with
him was only the third. "I think if you knew my heart--" he commenced.

"I don't want to know your heart."

"You might listen to a man, at any rate."

"I don't want to listen. It can't do any good. I only want you to leave me alone, and go away."

"I don't know what you take me for," said Mr. Spooner, beginning to wax angry.

"I haven't taken you for anything at all. This is very disagreeable and very foolish. A lady
has a right to know her own mind, and she has a right not to be persecuted." She would have
referred to Lord Chiltern's letter had not all the hopes of her heart been so terribly crushed
since that letter had been written. In it he had openly declared that she was already engaged
to be married to Mr. Maule, thinking that he would thus put an end to Mr. Spooner's little
adventure. But since the writing of Lord Chiltern's letter that unfortunate reference had been
made to Boulogne, and every particle of her happiness had been destroyed. She was a miserable,
blighted young woman, who had quarrelled irretrievably with her lover, feeling greatly angry
with herself because she had made the quarrel, and yet conscious that her own self-respect
had demanded the quarrel. She was full of regret, declaring to herself from morning to night
that, in spite of all his manifest wickedness in having talked of Boulogne, she never could
care at all for any other man. And now there was this aggravation to her misery,--this horrid
suitor, who disgraced her by making those around her suppose it to be possible that she should
ever accept him; who had probably heard of her quarrel, and had been mean enough to suppose
that therefore there might be a chance for himself! She did despise him, and wanted him to
understand that she despised him.

"I believe I am in a condition to offer my hand and fortune to any young lady without impropriety,"
said Mr. Spooner.

"I don't know anything about your condition."

"But I will tell you everything."

"I don't want to know anything about it."

"I have an estate of--"

"I don't want to know about your estate. I won't hear about your estate. It can be nothing to me."

"It is generally considered to be a matter of some importance."

"It is of no importance to me, at all, Mr. Spooner; and I won't hear anything about it. If
all the parish belonged to you, it would not make any difference."

"All the parish does belong to me, and nearly all the next," replied Mr. Spooner, with great
dignity.

"Then you'd better find some lady who would like to have two parishes. They haven't any weight
with me at all." At that moment she told herself how much she would prefer even Boulogne, to
Mr. Spooner's two parishes.

"What is it that you find so wrong about me?" asked the unhappy suitor.

Adelaide looked at him, and longed to tell him that his nose was red. And, though she would
not quite do that, she could not bring herself to spare him. What right had he to come to her,--a
nasty, red-nosed old man, who knew nothing about anything but foxes and horses,--to her, who
had never given him the encouragement of a single smile? She could not allude to his nose,
but in regard to his other defects she would not spare him. "Our tastes are not the same, Mr.
Spooner."

"You are very fond of hunting."

"And our ages are not the same."

"I always thought that there should be a difference of age," said Mr. Spooner, becoming very red.

"And,--and,--and,--it's altogether quite preposterous. I don't believe that you can really
think it yourself."

"But I do."

"Then you must unthink it. And, indeed, Mr. Spooner, since you drive me to say so,--I consider
it to be very unmanly of you, after what Lord Chiltern told you in his letter."

"But I believe that is all over."

Then her anger flashed up very high. "And if you do believe it, what a mean man you must be
to come to me when you must know how miserable I am, and to think that I should be driven to
accept you after losing him! You never could have been anything to me. If you wanted to get
married at all, you should have done it before I was born." This was hard upon the man, as
at that time he could not have been much more than twenty. "But you don't know anything of
the difference in people if you think that any girl would look at you, after having been--loved
by Mr. Maule. Now, as you do not seem inclined to go away, I shall leave you." So saying, she
walked off with stately step, out of the room, leaving the door open behind her to facilitate
her escape.

She had certainly been very rude to him, and had treated him very badly. Of that he was sure.
He had conferred upon her what is commonly called the highest compliment which a gentleman
can pay to a lady, and she had insulted him;--had doubly insulted him. She had referred to
his age, greatly exaggerating his misfortune in that respect; and she had compared him to that
poor beggar Maule in language most offensive. When she left him, he put his hand beneath his
waistcoat, and turned with an air almost majestic towards the window. But in an instant he
remembered that there was nobody there to see how he bore his punishment, and he sank down
into human nature. "Damnation!" he said, as he put his hands into his trousers pockets.

Slowly he made his way down into the hall, and slowly he opened for himself the front door,
and escaped from the house on to the gravel drive. There he found his cousin Ned still seated
in the phaeton, and slowly driving round the circle in front of the hall door. The squire succeeded
in gaining such command over his own gait and countenance that his cousin divined nothing of
the truth as he clambered up into his seat. But he soon showed his temper. "What the devil
have you got the reins in this way for?"

"The reins are all right," said Ned.

"No they ain't;--they're all wrong." And then he drove down the avenue to Spoon Hall as quickly
as he could make the horses trot.

"Did you see her?" said Ned, as soon as they were beyond the gates.

"See your grandmother."

"Do you mean to say that I'm not to ask?"

"There's nothing I hate so much as a fellow that's always asking questions," said Tom Spooner.
"There are some men so d----d thick-headed that they never know when they ought to hold their
tongue."

For a minute or two Ned bore the reproof in silence, and then he spoke. "If you are unhappy,
Tom, I can bear a good deal; but don't overdo it,--unless you want me to leave you."

"She's the d----t vixen that ever had a tongue in her head," said Tom Spooner, lifting his
whip and striking the poor off-horse in his agony. Then Ned forgave him.

CHAPTER LIV

The Duchess Takes Counsel

Phineas Finn, when he had been thrice remanded before the Bow Street magistrate, and four times
examined, was at last committed to be tried for the murder of Mr. Bonteen. This took place
on Wednesday, May 19th, a fortnight after the murder. But during those fourteen days little
was learned, or even surmised, by the police, in addition to the circumstances which had transpired
at once. Indeed the delay, slight as it was, had arisen from a desire to find evidence that
might affect Mr. Emilius, rather than with a view to strengthen that which did affect Phineas
Finn. But no circumstance could be found tending in any way to add to the suspicion to which
the converted Jew was made subject by his own character, and by the supposition that he would
have been glad to get rid of Mr. Bonteen. He did not even attempt to run away,--for which attempt
certain pseudo-facilities were put in his way by police ingenuity. But Mr. Emilius stood his
ground and courted inquiry. Mr. Bonteen had been to him, he said, a very bitter, unjust, and
cruel enemy. Mr. Bonteen had endeavoured to rob him of his dearest wife;--had charged him with
bigamy;--had got up false evidence in the hope of ruining him. He had undoubtedly hated Mr.
Bonteen, and might probably have said so. But, as it happened, through God's mercy, he was
enabled to prove that he could not possibly have been at the scene of the murder when the murder
was committed. During that hour of the night he had been in his own bed; and, had he been out,
could not have re-entered the house without calling up the inmates. But, independently of his
alibi, Mealyus was able to rely on the absolute absence of any evidence against him. No grey
coat could be traced to his hands, even for an hour. His height was very much less than that
attributed by Lord Fawn to the man whom he had seen hurrying to the spot. No weapon was found
in his possession by which the deed could have been done. Inquiry was made as to the purchase
of life-preservers, and the reverend gentleman was taken to half-a-dozen shops at which such
instruments had lately been sold. But there had been a run upon life preservers, in consequence
of recommendations as to their use given by certain newspapers;--and it was found as impossible
to trace one particular purchase as it would be that of a loaf of bread. At none of the half-dozen
shops to which he was taken was Mr. Emilius remembered; and then all further inquiry in that
direction was abandoned, and Mr. Emilius was set at liberty. "I forgive my persecutors from
the bottom of my heart," he said,--"but God will requite it to them."

In the meantime Phineas was taken to Newgate, and was there confined, almost with the glory
and attendance of a State prisoner. This was no common murder, and no common murderer. Nor
were they who interested themselves in the matter the ordinary rag, tag, and bobtail of the
people,--the mere wives and children, or perhaps fathers and mothers, or brothers and sisters
of the slayer or the slain. Dukes and Earls, Duchesses and Countesses, Members of the Cabinet,
great statesmen, Judges, Bishops, and Queen's Counsellors, beautiful women, and women of highest
fashion, seemed for a while to think of but little else than the fate of Mr. Bonteen and the
fate of Phineas Finn. People became intimately acquainted with each other through similar sympathies
in this matter, who had never before spoken to or seen each other. On the day after the full
committal of the man, Mr. Low received a most courteous letter from the Duchess of Omnium,
begging him to call in Carlton Terrace if his engagements would permit him to do so. The Duchess
had heard that Mr. Low was devoting all his energies to the protection of Phineas Finn; and,
as a certain friend of hers,--a lady,--was doing the same, she was anxious to bring them together.
Indeed, she herself was equally prepared to devote her energies for the present to the same
object. She had declared to all her friends,--especially to her husband and to the Duke of
St. Bungay,--her absolute conviction of the innocence of the accused man, and had called upon
them to defend him. "My dear," said the elder Duke, "I do not think that in my time any innocent
man has ever lost his life upon the scaffold."

"Is that a reason why our friend should be the first instance?" said the Duchess.

"He must be tried according to the laws of his country," said the younger Duke.

"Plantagenet, you always speak as if everything were perfect, whereas you know very well that
everything is imperfect. If that man is--is hung, I--"

"Glencora," said her husband, "do not connect yourself with the fate of a stranger from any
misdirected enthusiasm."

"I do connect myself. If that man be hung--I shall go into mourning for him. You had better
look to it."

Mr. Low obeyed the summons, and called on the Duchess. But, in truth, the invitation had been
planned by Madame Goesler, who was present when the lawyer, about five o'clock in the afternoon,
was shown into the presence of the Duchess. Tea was immediately ordered, and Mr. Low was almost
embraced. He was introduced to Madame Goesler, of whom he did not before remember that he had
heard the name, and was at once given to understand that the fate of Phineas was now in question.
"We know so well," said the Duchess, "how true you are to him."

"He is an old friend of mine," said the lawyer, "and I cannot believe him to have been guilty
of a murder."

"Guilty!--he is no more guilty than I am. We are as sure of that as we are of the sun. We know
that he is innocent;--do we not, Madame Goesler? And we, too, are very dear friends of his;--that
is, I am."

"And so am I," said Madame Goesler, in a voice very low and sweet, but yet so energetic as
to make Mr. Low almost rivet his attention upon her.

"You must understand, Mr. Low, that Mr. Finn is a man horribly hated by certain enemies. That
wretched Mr. Bonteen hated his very name. But there are other people who think very differently
of him. He must be saved."

"Indeed I hope he may," said Mr. Low.

"We wanted to see you for ever so many reasons. Of course you understand that--that any sum
of money can be spent that the case may want."

"Nothing will be spared on that account certainly," said the lawyer.

"But money will do a great many things. We would send all round the world if we could get evidence
against that other man,--Lady Eustace's husband, you know."

"Can any good be done by sending all round the world?"

"He went back to his own home not long ago,--in Poland, I think," said Madame Goesler. "Perhaps
he got the instrument there, and brought it with him." Mr. Low shook his head. "Of course we
are very ignorant;--but it would be a pity that everything should not be tried."

"He might have got in and out of the window, you know," said the Duchess. Still Mr. Low shook
his head. "I believe things can always be found out, if only you take trouble enough. And trouble
means money;--does it not? We wouldn't mind how many thousand pounds it cost; would we, Marie?"

"I fear that the spending of thousands can do no good," said Mr. Low.

"But something must be done. You don't mean to say that Mr. Finn is to be hung because Lord
Fawn says that he saw a man running along the street in a grey coat."

"Certainly not."

"There is nothing else against him;--nobody else saw him."

"If there be nothing else against him he will be acquitted."

"You think then," said Madame Goesler, "that there will be no use in tracing what the man Mealyus
did when he was out of England. He might have bought a grey coat then, and have hidden it till
this night, and then have thrown it away." Mr. Low listened to her with close attention, but
again shook his head. "If it could be shown that the man had a grey coat at that time it would
certainly weaken the effect of Mr. Finn's grey coat."

"And if he bought a bludgeon there, it would weaken the effect of Mr. Finn's bludgeon. And
if he bought rope to make a ladder it would show that he had got out. It was a dark night,
you know, and nobody would have seen it. We have been talking it all over, Mr. Low, and we
really think you ought to send somebody."

"I will mention what you say to the gentlemen who are employed on Mr. Finn's defence."

"But will not you be employed?" Then Mr. Low explained that the gentlemen to whom he referred
were the attorneys who would get up the case on their friend's behalf, and that as he himself
practised in the Courts of Equity only, he could not defend Mr. Finn on his trial.

"He must have the very best men," said the Duchess.

"He must have good men, certainly."

"And a great many. Couldn't we get Sir Gregory Grogram?" Mr. Low shook his head. "I know very
well that if you get men who are really,--really swells, for that is what it is, Mr. Low,--and
pay them well enough, and so make it really an important thing, they can browbeat any judge
and hoodwink any jury. I daresay it is very dreadful to say so, Mr. Low; but, nevertheless,
I believe it, and as this man is certainly innocent it ought to be done. I daresay it's very
shocking, but I do think that twenty thousand pounds spent among the lawyers would get him off."

"I hope we can get him off without expending twenty thousand pounds, Duchess."

"But you can have the money and welcome;--cannot he, Madame Goesler?"

"He could have double that, if double were necessary."

"I would fill the court with lawyers for him," continued the Duchess. "I would cross-examine
the witnesses off their legs. I would rake up every wicked thing that horrid Jew has done since
he was born. I would make witnesses speak. I would give a carriage and pair of horses to every
one of the jurors' wives, if that would do any good. You may shake your head, Mr. Low; but
I would. And I'd carry Lord Fawn off to the Antipodes, too;--and I shouldn't care if you left
him there. I know that this man is innocent, and I'd do anything to save him. A woman, I know,
can't do much;--but she has this privilege, that she can speak out what men only think. I'd
give them two carriages and two pairs of horses a-piece if I could do it that way."

Mr. Low did his best to explain to the Duchess that the desired object could hardly be effected
after the fashion she proposed, and he endeavoured to persuade her that justice was sure to
be done in an English court of law. "Then why are people so very anxious to get this lawyer
or that to bamboozle the witnesses?" said the Duchess. Mr. Low declared it to be his opinion
that the poorest man in England was not more likely to be hung for a murder he had not committed
than the richest. "Then why would you, if you were accused, have ever so many lawyers to defend
you?" Mr. Low went on to explain. "The more money you spend," said the Duchess, "the more fuss
you make. And the longer a trial is about and the greater the interest, the more chance a man
has to escape. If a man is tried for three days you always think he'll get off, but if it lasts
ten minutes he is sure to be convicted and hung. I'd have Mr. Finn's trial made so long that
they never could convict him. I'd tire out all the judges and juries in London. If you get
lawyers enough they may speak for ever." Mr. Low endeavoured to explain that this might prejudice
the prisoner. "And I'd examine every member of the House of Commons, and all the Cabinet, and
all their wives. I'd ask them all what Mr. Bonteen had been saying. I'd do it in such a way
as a trial was never done before;--and I'd take care that they should know what was coming."

"And if he were convicted afterwards?"

"I'd buy up the Home Secretary. It's very horrid to say so, of course, Mr. Low; and I dare
say there is nothing wrong ever done in Chancery. But I know what Cabinet Ministers are. If
they could get a majority by granting a pardon they'd do it quick enough."

"You are speaking of a liberal Government, of course, Duchess."

"There isn't twopence to choose between them in that respect. Just at this moment I believe
Mr. Finn is the most popular member of the House of Commons; and I'd bring all that to bear.
You can't but know that if everything of that kind is done it will have an effect. I believe
you could make him so popular that the people would pull down the prison rather than have him
hung;--so that a jury would not dare to say he was guilty."

"Would that be justice, ladies?" asked the just man.

"It would be success, Mr. Low,--which is a great deal the better thing of the two."

"If Mr. Finn were found guilty, I could not in my heart believe that that would be justice,"
said Madame Goesler.

Mr. Low did his best to make them understand that the plan of pulling down Newgate by the instrumentality
of Phineas Finn's popularity, or of buying up the Home Secretary by threats of Parliamentary
defection, would hardly answer their purpose. He would, he assured them, suggest to the attorneys
employed the idea of searching for evidence against the man Mealyus in his own country, and
would certainly take care that nothing was omitted from want of means. "You had better let
us put a cheque in your hands," said the Duchess. But to this he would not assent. He did admit
that it would be well to leave no stone unturned, and that the turning of such stones must
cost money;--but the money, he said, would be forthcoming. "He's not a rich man himself," said
the Duchess. Mr. Low assured her that if money were really wanting he would ask for it. "And
now," said the Duchess, "there is one other thing that we want. Can we see him?"

"You, yourself?"

"Yes;--I myself, and Madame Goesler. You look as if it would be very wicked." Mr. Low thought
that it would be wicked;--that the Duke would not like it; and that such a visit would occasion
ill-natured remarks. "People do visit him, I suppose. He's not locked up like a criminal."

"I visit him," said Mr. Low, "and one or two other friends have done so. Lord Chiltern has
been with him, and Mr. Erle."

"Has no lady seen him?" asked the Duchess.

"Not to my knowledge."

"Then it's time some lady should do so. I suppose we could be admitted. If we were his sisters
they'd let us in."

"You must excuse me, Duchess, but--"

"Of course I will excuse you. But what?"

"You are not his sisters."

"If I were engaged to him, to be his wife?--" said Madame Goesler, standing up. "I am not so.
There is nothing of that kind. You must not misunderstand me. But if I were?"

"On that plea I presume you could be admitted."

"Why not as a friend? Lord Chiltern is admitted as his friend."

"Because of the prudery of a prison," said the Duchess. "All things are wrong to the lookers
after wickedness, my dear. If it would comfort him to see us, why should he not have that comfort?"

"Would you have gone to him in his own lodgings?" asked Mr. Low.

"I would,--if he'd been ill," said Madame Goesler.

"Madam," said Mr. Low, speaking with a gravity which for a moment had its effect even upon
the Duchess of Omnium, "I think, at any rate, that if you visit Mr. Finn in prison, you should
do so through the instrumentality of his Grace, your husband."

"Of course you suspect me of all manner of evil."

"I suspect nothing;--but I am sure that it should be so."

"It shall be so," said the Duchess. "Thank you, sir. We are much obliged to you for your wise
counsel."

"I am obliged to you," said Madame Goesler, "because I know that you have his safety at heart."

"And so am I," said the Duchess, relenting, and giving him her hand. "We are really ever so
much obliged to you. You don't quite understand about the Duke; and how should you? I never
do anything without telling him, but he hasn't time to attend to things."

"I hope I have not offended you."

"Oh dear, no. You can't offend me unless you mean it. Good-bye,--and remember to have a great
many lawyers, and all with new wigs; and let them all get in a great rage that anybody should
suppose it possible that Mr. Finn is a murderer. I'm sure I am. Good-bye, Mr. Low."

"You'll never be able to get to him," said the Duchess, as soon as they were alone.

"I suppose not."

"And what good could you do? Of course I'd go with you if we could get in;--but what would
be the use?"

"To let him know that people do not think him guilty."

"Mr. Low will tell him that. I suppose, too, we can write to him. Would you mind writing?"

"I would rather go."

"You might as well tell the truth when you are about it. You are breaking your heart for him."

"If he were to be condemned, and--executed, I should break my heart. I could never appear bright
before the world again."

"That is just what I told Plantagenet. I said I would go into mourning."

"And I should really mourn. And yet were he free to-morrow he would be no more to me than any
other friend."

"Do you mean you would not marry him?"

"No;--I would not. Nor would he ask me. I will tell you what will be his lot in life,--if he
escapes from the present danger."

"Of course he will escape. They don't really hang innocent men."

"Then he will become the husband of Lady Laura Kennedy."

"Poor fellow! If I believed that, I should think it cruel to help him escape from Newgate."

CHAPTER LV

Phineas in Prison

Phineas Finn himself, during the fortnight in which he was carried backwards and forwards between
his prison and the Bow Street Police-office, was able to maintain some outward show of manly
dignity,--as though he felt that the terrible accusation and great material inconvenience to
which he was subjected were only, and could only be, temporary in their nature, and that the
truth would soon prevail. During this period he had friends constantly with him,--either Mr.
Low, or Lord Chiltern, or Barrington Erle, or his landlord, Mr. Bunce, who, in these days,
was very true to him. And he was very frequently visited by the attorney, Mr. Wickerby, who
had been expressly recommended to him for this occasion. If anybody could be counted upon to
see him through his difficulty it was Wickerby. But the company of Mr. Wickerby was not pleasant
to him, because, as far as he could judge, Mr. Wickerby did not believe in his innocence. Mr.
Wickerby was willing to do his best for him; was, so to speak, moving heaven and earth on his
behalf; was fully conscious that this case was a great affair, and in no respect similar to
those which were constantly placed in his hands; but there never fell from him a sympathetic
expression of assurance of his client's absolute freedom from all taint of guilt in the matter.
From day to day, and ten times a day, Phineas would express his indignant surprise that any
one should think it possible that he had done this deed, but to all these expressions Mr. Wickerby
would make no answer whatever. At last Phineas asked him the direct question. "I never suspect
anybody of anything," said Mr. Wickerby. "Do you believe in my innocence?" demanded Phineas.
"Everybody is entitled to be believed innocent till he has been proved to be guilty," said
Mr. Wickerby. Then Phineas appealed to his friend Mr. Low, asking whether he might not be allowed
to employ some lawyer whose feelings would be more in unison with his own. But Mr. Low adjured
him to make no change. Mr. Wickerby understood the work and was a most zealous man. His client
was entitled to his services, but to nothing more than his services. And so Mr. Wickerby carried
on the work, fully believing that Phineas Finn had in truth murdered Mr. Bonteen.

But the prisoner was not without sympathy and confidence. Mr. Low, Lord Chiltern, and Lady
Chiltern, who, on one occasion, came to visit him with her husband, entertained no doubts prejudicial
to his honour. They told him perhaps almost more than was quite true of the feelings of the
world in his favour. He heard of the friendship and faith of the Duchess of Omnium, of Madame
Goesler, and of Lady Laura Kennedy,--hearing also that Lady Laura was now a widow. And then
at length his two sisters came over to him from Ireland, and wept and sobbed, and fell into
hysterics in his presence. They were sure that he was innocent, as was every one, they said,
throughout the length and breadth of Ireland. And Mrs. Bunce, who came to see Phineas in his
prison, swore that she would tear the judge from his bench if he did not at once pronounce
a verdict in favour of her darling without waiting for any nonsense of a jury. And Bunce, her
husband, having convinced himself that his lodger had not committed the murder, was zealous
in another way, taking delight in the case, and proving that no jury could find a verdict of
guilty.

During that week Phineas, buoyed up by the sympathy of his friends, and in some measure supported
by the excitement of the occasion, carried himself well, and bore bravely the terrible misfortune
to which he had been subjected by untoward circumstances. But when the magistrate fully committed
him, giving the first public decision on the matter from the bench, declaring to the world
at large that on the evidence as given, prima facie, he; Phineas Finn, must be regarded as
the murderer of Mr. Bonteen, our hero's courage almost gave way. If such was now the judicial
opinion of the magistrate, how could he expect a different verdict from a jury in two months'
time, when he would be tried before a final court? As far as he could understand, nothing more
could be learned on the matter. All the facts were known that could be known,--as far as he,
or rather his friends on his behalf, were able to search for facts. It seemed to him that there
was no tittle whatever of evidence against him. He had walked straight home from his club with
the life-preserver in his pocket, and had never turned to the right or to the left. Till he
found himself committed, he would not believe that any serious and prolonged impediment could
be thrown in the way of his liberty. He would not believe that a man altogether innocent could
be in danger of the gallows on a false accusation. It had seemed to him that the police had
kept their hold on him with a rabid ferocity, straining every point with the view of showing
that it was possible that he should have been the murderer. Every policeman who had been near
him, carrying him backward and forward from his prison, or giving evidence as to the circumstances
of the locality and of his walk home on that fatal night, had seemed to him to be an enemy.
But he had looked for impartiality from the magistrate,--and now the magistrate had failed
him. He had seen in court the faces of men well known to him,--men known in the world,--with
whom he had been on pleasant terms in Parliament, who had sat upon the bench while he was standing
as a culprit between two constables; and they who had been his familiar friends had appeared
at once to have been removed from him by some unmeasurable distance. But all that he had, as
it were, discounted, believing that a few hours,--at the very longest a few days,--would remove
the distance; but now he was sent back to his prison, there to await his trial for the murder.

And it seemed to him that his committal startled no one but himself. Could it be that even
his dearest friends thought it possible that he had been guilty? When that day came, and he
was taken back to Newgate on his last journey there from Bow Street, Lord Chiltern had returned
for a while to Harrington Hall, having promised that he would be back in London as soon as
his business would permit; but Mr. Low came to him almost immediately to his prison room. "This
is a pleasant state of things," said Phineas, with a forced laugh. But as he laughed he also
sobbed, with a low, irrepressible, convulsive movement in his throat.

"Phineas, the time has come in which you must show yourself to be a man."

"A man! Oh, yes, I can be a man. A murderer you mean. I shall have to be--hung, I suppose."

"May God, in His mercy, forbid."

"No;--not in His mercy; in His justice. There can be no need for mercy here,--not even from
Heaven. When they take my life may He forgive my sins through the merits of my Saviour. But
for this there can be no mercy. Why do you not speak? Do you mean to say that I am guilty?"

"I am sure that you are innocent."

"And yet, look here. What more can be done to prove it than has been done? That blundering
fool will swear my life away." Then he threw himself on his bed, and gave way to his sobs.

That evening he was alone,--as, indeed, most of his evenings had been spent, and the minutes
were minutes of agony to him. The external circumstances of his position were as comfortable
as circumstances would allow. He had a room to himself looking out through heavy iron bars
into one of the courts of the prison. The chamber was carpeted, and was furnished with bed
and chairs and two tables. Books were allowed him as he pleased, and pen and ink. It was May,
and no fire was necessary. At certain periods of the day he could walk alone in the court below,--the
restriction on such liberty being that at other certain hours the place was wanted for other
prisoners. As far as he knew no friend who called was denied to him, though he was by no means
certain that his privilege in that respect would not be curtailed now that he had been committed
for trial. His food had been plentiful and well cooked, and even luxuries, such as fish and
wine and fruit, had been supplied to him. That the fruit had come from the hot-houses of the
Duchess of Omnium, and the wine from Mr. Low's cellar, and the fish and lamb and spring vegetables,
the cream and coffee and fresh butter from the unrestricted orders of another friend, that
Lord Chiltern had sent him champagne and cigars, and that Lady Chiltern had given directions
about the books and stationery, he did not know. But as far as he could be consoled by such
comforts, there had been the consolation. If lamb and salad could make him happy he might have
enjoyed his sojourn in Newgate. Now, this evening, he was past all enjoyment. It was impossible
that he should read. How could a man fix his attention on any book, with a charge of murder
against himself affirmed by the deliberate decision of a judge? And he knew himself to be as
innocent as the magistrate himself. Every now and then he would rise from his bed, and almost
rush across the room as though he would dash his head against the wall. Murder! They really
believed that he had deliberately murdered the man;--he, Phineas Finn, who had served his country
with repute, who had sat in Parliament, who had prided himself on living with the best of his
fellow-creatures, who had been the friend of Mr. Monk and of Lord Cantrip, the trusted intimate
of such women as Lady Laura and Lady Chiltern, who had never put his hand to a mean action,
or allowed his tongue to speak a mean word! He laughed in his wrath, and then almost howled
in his agony. He thought of the young loving wife who had lived with him little more than for
one fleeting year, and wondered whether she was looking down upon him from Heaven, and how
her spirit would bear this accusation against the man upon whose bosom she had slept, and in
whose arms she had gone to her long rest. "They can't believe it," he said aloud. "It is impossible.
Why should I have murdered him?" And then he remembered an example in Latin from some rule
of grammar, and repeated it to himself over and over again.--"No one at an instant,--of a sudden,--becomes
most base." It seemed to him that there was such a want of knowledge of human nature in the
supposition that it was possible that he should have committed such a crime. And yet--there
he was, committed to take his trial for the murder of Mr. Bonteen.

The days were long, and it was daylight till nearly nine. Indeed the twilight lingered, even
through those iron bars, till after nine. He had once asked for candles, but had been told
that they could not be allowed him without an attendant in the room,--and he had dispensed
with them. He had been treated doubtless with great respect, but nevertheless he had been treated
as a prisoner. They hardly denied him anything that he asked, but when he asked for that which
they did not choose to grant they would annex conditions which induced him to withdraw his
request. He understood their ways now, and did not rebel against them.

On a sudden he heard the key in the door, and the man who attended him entered the room with
a candle in his hand. A lady had come to call, and the governor had given permission for her
entrance. He would return for the light,--and for the lady, in half an hour. He had said all
this before Phineas could see who the lady was. And when he did see the form of her who followed
the gaoler, and who stood with hesitating steps behind him in the doorway, he knew her by her
sombre solemn raiment, and not by her countenance. She was dressed from head to foot in the
deepest weeds of widowhood, and a heavy veil fell from her bonnet over her face. "Lady Laura,
is it you?" said Phineas, putting out his hand. Of course it was Lady Laura. While the Duchess
of Omnium and Madame Goesler were talking about such a visit, allowing themselves to be deterred
by the wisdom of Mr. Low, she had made her way through bolts and bars, and was now with him
in his prison.

"Oh, Phineas!" She slowly raised her veil, and stood gazing at him. "Of all my troubles this,--to
see you here,--is the heaviest."

"And of all my consolations to see you here is the greatest." He should not have so spoken.
Could he have thought of things as they were, and have restrained himself, he should not have
uttered words to her which were pleasant but not true. There came a gleam of sunshine across
her face as she listened to him, and then she threw herself into his arms, and wept upon his
shoulder. "I did not expect that you would have found me," he said.

She took the chair opposite to that on which he usually sat, and then began her tale. Her cousin,
Barrington Erle, had brought her there, and was below, waiting for her in the Governor's house.
He had procured an order for her admission that evening, direct from Sir Harry Coldfoot, the
Home Secretary,--which, however, as she admitted, had been given under the idea that she and
Erle were to see him together. "But I would not let him come with me," she said. "I could not
have spoken to you, had he been here;--could I?"

"It would not have been the same, Lady Laura." He had thought much of his mode of addressing
her on occasions before this, at Dresden and at Portman Square, and had determined that he
would always give her her title. Once or twice he had lacked the courage to be so hard to her.
Now as she heard the name the gleam of sunshine passed from her altogether. "We hardly expected
that we should ever meet in such a place as this?" he said.

"I cannot understand it. They cannot really think you killed him." He smiled, and shook his
head. Then she spoke of her own condition. "You have heard what has happened? You know that
I am--a widow?"

"Yes;--I had heard," And then he smiled again. "You will have understood why I could not come
to you,--as I should have done but for this little accident."

"He died on the day that they arrested you. Was it not strange that such a double blow should
fall together? Oswald, no doubt, told you all."

"He told me of your husband's death."

"But not of his will? Perhaps he has not seen you since he heard it." Lord Chiltern had heard
of the will before his last visit to Phineas in Newgate, but had not chosen then to speak of
his sister's wealth.

"I have heard nothing of Mr. Kennedy's will."

"It was made immediately after our marriage,--and he never changed it, though he had so much
cause of anger against me."

"He has not injured you, then,--as regards money."

"Injured me! No, indeed. I am a rich woman,--very rich. All Loughlinter is my own,--for life.
But of what use can it be to me?" He in his present state could tell her of no uses for such
a property. "I suppose, Phineas, it cannot be that you are really in danger?"

"In the greatest danger, I fancy."

"Do you mean that they will say--you are guilty?"

"The magistrates have said so already."

"But surely that is nothing. If I thought so, I should die. If I believed it, they should never
take me out of the prison while you are here. Barrington says that it cannot be. Oswald and
Violet are sure that such a thing can never happen. It was that Jew who did it."

"I cannot say who did it. I did not."

"You! Oh, Phineas! The world must be mad when any can believe it!"

"But they do believe it?" This, he said, meaning to ask a question as to that outside world.

"We do not. Barrington says--"

"What does Barrington say?"

"That there are some who do;--just a few, who were Mr. Bonteen's special friends."

"The police believe it. That is what I cannot understand;--men who ought to be keen-eyed and
quick-witted. That magistrate believes it. I saw men in the Court who used to know me well,
and I could see that they believed it. Mr. Monk was here yesterday."

"Does he believe it?"

"I asked him, and he told me--no. But I did not quite trust him as he told me. There are two
or three who believe me innocent."

"Who are they?"

"Low, and Chiltern, and his wife;--and that man Bunce, and his wife. If I escape from this,--if
they do not hang me,--I will remember them. And there are two other women who know me well
enough not to think me a murderer."

"Who are they, Phineas?"

"Madame Goesler, and the Duchess of Omnium."

"Have they been here?" she asked, with jealous eagerness.

"Oh, no. But I hear that it is so,--and I know it. One learns to feel even from hearsay what
is in the minds of people."

"And what do I believe, Phineas? Can you read my thoughts?"

"I know them of old, without reading them now." Then he put forth his hand and took hers. "Had
I murdered him in real truth, you would not have believed it."

"Because I love you, Phineas."

Then the key was again heard in the door, and Barrington Erle appeared with the gaolers. The
time was up, he said, and he had come to redeem his promise. He spoke cordially to his old
friend, and grasped the prisoner's hand cordially,--but not the less did he believe that there
was blood on it, and Phineas knew that such was his belief. It appeared on his arrival that
Lady Laura had not at all accomplished the chief object of her visit. She had brought with
her various cheques, all drawn by Barrington Erle on his banker,--amounting altogether to many
hundreds of pounds,--which it was intended that Phineas should use from time to time for the
necessities of his trial. Barrington Erle explained that the money was in fact to be a loan
from Lady Laura's father, and was simply passed through his banker's account. But Phineas knew
that the loan must come from Lady Laura, and he positively refused to touch it. His friend,
Mr. Low, was managing all that for him, and he would not embarrass the matter by a fresh account.
He was very obstinate, and at last the cheques were taken away in Barrington Erle's pocket.

"Good-night, old fellow," said Erle, affectionately. "I'll see you again before long. May God
send you through it all."

"Good-night, Barrington. It was kind of you to come to me." Then Lady Laura, watching to see
whether her cousin would leave her alone for a moment with the object of her idolatry, paused
before she gave him her hand. "Good-night, Lady Laura," he said.

"Good-night!" Barrington Erle was now just outside the door.

"I shall not forget your coming here to me."

"How should we, either of us, forget it?"

"Come, Laura," said Barrington Erle, "we had better make an end of it."

"But if I should never see him again!"

"Of course you will see him again."

"When! and where! Oh, God,--if they should murder him!" Then she threw herself into his arms,
and covered him with kisses, though her cousin had returned into the room and stood over her
as she embraced him.

"Laura," said he, "you are doing him an injury. How should he support himself if you behave
like this! Come away."

"Oh, my God, if they should kill him!" she exclaimed. But she allowed her cousin to take her
in his arms, and Phineas Finn was left alone without having spoken another word to either of them.

CHAPTER LVI

The Meager Family

On the day after the committal a lady, who had got out of a cab at the corner of Northumberland
Street, in the Marylebone Road, walked up that very uninviting street, and knocked at a door
just opposite to the deadest part of the dead wall of the Marylebone Workhouse. Here lived
Mrs. and Miss Meager,--and also on occasions Mr. Meager, who, however, was simply a trouble
and annoyance in the world, going about to race-courses, and occasionally, perhaps, to worse
places, and being of no slightest use to the two poor hard-worked women,--mother and daughter,--who
endeavoured to get their living by letting lodgings. The task was difficult, for it is not
everybody who likes to look out upon the dead wall of a workhouse, and they who do are disposed
to think that their willingness that way should be considered in the rent. But Mr. Emilius,
when the cruelty of his wife's friends deprived him of the short-lived luxury of his mansion
in Lowndes Square, had found in Northumberland Street a congenial retreat, and had for a while
trusted to Mrs. and Miss Meager for all his domestic comforts. Mr. Emilius was always a favourite
with new friends, and had not as yet had his Northumberland Street gloss rubbed altogether
off him when Mr. Bonteen was murdered. As it happened, on that night, or rather early in the
day, for Meager had returned to the bosom of his family after a somewhat prolonged absence
in the provinces, and therefore the date had become specially remarkable in the Meager family
from the double event,--Mr. Meager had declared that unless his wife could supply him with
a five-pound note he must cut his throat instantly. His wife and daughter had regretted the
necessity, but had declared the alternative to be out of the question. Whereupon Mr. Meager
had endeavoured to force the lock of an old bureau with a carving-knife, and there had been
some slight personal encounter,--after which he had had some gin and had gone to bed. Mrs.
Meager remembered the day very well indeed, and Miss Meager, when the police came the next
morning, had accounted for her black eye by a tragical account of a fall she had had against
the bed-post in the dark. Up to that period Mr. Emilius had been everything that was sweet
and good,--an excellent, eloquent clergyman, who was being ill-treated by his wife's wealthy
relations, who was soft in his manners and civil in his words, and never gave more trouble
than was necessary. The period, too, would have been one of comparative prosperity to the Meager
ladies,--but for that inopportune return of the head of the family,--as two other lodgers had
been inclined to look out upon the dead wall, or else into the cheerful back-yard; which circumstance
came to have some bearing upon our story, as Mrs. Meager had been driven by the press of her
increased household to let that good-natured Mr. Emilius know that if "he didn't mind it" the
latch-key might be an accommodation on occasions. To give him his due, indeed, he had, when
first taking the rooms, offered to give up the key when not intending to be out at night.

After the murder Mr. Emilius had been arrested, and had been kept in durance for a week. Miss
Meager had been sure that he was innocent; Mrs. Meager had trusted the policemen, who evidently
thought that the clergyman was guilty. Of the policemen who were concerned on the occasion,
it may be said in a general way that they believed that both the gentlemen had committed the
murder,--so anxious were they not to be foiled in the attempts at discovery which their duty
called upon them to make. Mr. Meager had left the house on the morning of the arrest, having
arranged that little matter of the five-pound note by a compromise. When the policeman came
for Mr. Emilius, Mr. Meager was gone. For a day or two the lodger's rooms were kept vacant
for the clergyman till Mrs. Meager became quite convinced that he had committed the murder,
and then all his things were packed up and placed in the passage. When he was liberated he
returned to the house, and expressed unbounded anger at what had been done. He took his two
boxes away in a cab, and was seen no more by the ladies of Northumberland Street.

But a further gleam of prosperity fell upon them in consequence of the tragedy which had been
so interesting to them. Hitherto the inquiries made at their house had had reference solely
to the habits and doings of their lodger during the last few days; but now there came to them
a visitor who made a more extended investigation; and this was one of their own sex. It was
Madame Goesler who got out of the cab at the workhouse corner, and walked from thence to Mrs.
Meager's house. This was her third appearance in Northumberland Street, and at each coming
she had spoken kind words, and had left behind her liberal recompense for the trouble which
she gave. She had no scruples as to paying for the evidence which she desired to obtain,--no
fear of any questions which might afterwards be asked in cross-examination. She dealt out sovereigns--womanfully,
and had had Mrs. and Miss Meager at her feet. Before the second visit was completed they were
both certain that the Bohemian converted Jew had murdered Mr. Bonteen, and were quite willing
to assist in hanging him.

"Yes, Ma'am," said Mrs. Meager, "he did take the key with him. Amelia remembers we were a key
short at the time he was away." The absence here alluded to was that occasioned by the journey
which Mr. Emilius took to Prague, when he heard that evidence of his former marriage was being
sought against him in his own country.

"That he did," said Amelia, "because we were put out ever so. And he had no business, for he
was not paying for the room."

"You have only one key."

"There is three, Ma'am. The front attic has one regular because he's on a daily paper, and
of course he doesn't get to bed till morning. Meager always takes another, and we can't get
it from him ever so."

"And Mr. Emilius took the other away with him?" asked Madame Goesler.

"That he did, Ma'am. When he came back he said it had been in a drawer,--but it wasn't in the
drawer. We always knows what's in the drawers."

"The drawer wasn't left locked, then?"

"Yes, it was, Ma'am, and he took that key--unbeknownst to us," said Mrs. Meager. "But there
is other keys that open the drawers. We are obliged in our line to know about the lodgers, Ma'am."

This was certainly no time for Madame Goesler to express disapprobation of the practices which
were thus divulged. She smiled, and nodded her head, and was quite sympathetic with Mrs. Meager.
She had learned that Mr. Emilius had taken the latch-key with him to Bohemia, and was convinced
that a dozen other latch-keys might have been made after the pattern without any apparent detection
by the London police. "And now about the coat, Mrs. Meager."

"Well, Ma'am?"

"Mr. Meager has not been here since?"

"No, Ma'am. Mr. Meager, Ma'am, isn't what he ought to be. I never do own it up, only when I'm
driven. He hasn't been home."

"I suppose he still has the coat."

"Well, Ma'am, no. We sent a young man after him, as you said, and the young man found him at
the Newmarket Spring."

"Some water cure?" asked Madame Goesler.

"No, Ma'am. It ain't a water cure, but the races. He hadn't got the coat. He does always manage
a tidy great coat when November is coming on, because it covers everything, and is respectable,
but he mostly parts with it in April. He gets short, and then he--just pawns it."

"But he had it the night of the murder?"

"Yes, Ma'am, he had. Amelia and I remembered it especial. When we went to bed, which we did
soon after ten, it was left in this room, lying there on the sofa." They were now sitting in
the little back parlour, in which Mrs. and Miss Meager were accustomed to live.

"And it was there in the morning?"

"Father had it on when he went out," said Amelia.

"If we paid him he would get it out of the pawnshop, and bring it to us, would he not?" asked
the lady.

To this Mrs. Meager suggested that it was quite on the cards that Mr. Meager might have been
able to do better with his coat by selling it, and if so, it certainly would have been sold,
as no prudent idea of redeeming his garment for the next winter's wear would ever enter his
mind. And Mrs. Meager seemed to think that such a sale would not have taken place between her
husband and any old friend. "He wouldn't know where he sold it," said Mrs. Meager.

"Anyways he'd tell us so," said Amelia.

"But if we paid him to be more accurate?" said Madame Goesler.

"They is so afraid of being took up themselves," said Mrs. Meager. There was, however, ample
evidence that Mr. Meager had possessed a grey great coat, which during the night of the murder
had been left in the little sitting-room, and which they had supposed to have lain there all
night. To this coat Mr. Emilius might have had easy access. "But then it was a big man that
was seen, and Emilius isn't no ways a big man. Meager's coat would be too long for him, ever
so much."

"Nevertheless we must try and get the coat," said Madame Goesler. "I'll speak to a friend about
it. I suppose we can find your husband when we want him?"

"I don't know, Ma'am. We never can find him; but then we never do want him,--not now. The police
know him at the races, no doubt. You won't go and get him into trouble, Ma'am, worse than he
is? He's always been in trouble, but I wouldn't like to be means of making it worse on him
than it is."

Madame Goesler, as she again paid the woman for her services, assured her that she would do
no injury to Mr. Meager. All that she wanted of Mr. Meager was his grey coat, and that not
with any view that could be detrimental either to his honour or to his safety, and she was
willing to pay any reasonable price,--or almost any unreasonable price,--for the coat. But
the coat must be made to be forthcoming if it were still in existence, and had not been as
yet torn to pieces by the shoddy makers.

"It ain't near come to that yet," said Amelia. "I don't know that I ever see father more respectable,--that
is, in the way of a great coat."

CHAPTER LVII

The Beginning of the Search for the Key and the Coat

When Madame Goesler revealed her plans and ideas to Mr. Wickerby, the attorney, who had been
employed to bring Phineas Finn through his troubles, that gentleman evidently did not think
much of the unprofessional assistance which the lady proposed to give him. "I'm afraid it is
far-fetched, Ma'am,--if you understand what I mean," said Mr. Wickerby. Madame Goesler declared
that she understood very well what Mr. Wickerby meant, but that she could hardly agree with
him. "According to that the gentleman must have plotted the murder more than a month before
he committed it," said Mr. Wickerby.

"And why not?"

"Murder plots are generally the work of a few hours at the longest, Madame Goesler. Anger,
combined with an indifference to self-sacrifice, does not endure the wear of many days. And
the object here was insufficient. I don't think we can ask to have the trial put off in order
to find out whether a false key may have been made in Prague."

"And you will not look for the coat?"

"We can look for it, and probably get it, if the woman has not lied to you; but I don't think
it will do us any good. The woman probably is lying. You have been paying her very liberally,
so that she has been making an excellent livelihood out of the murder. No jury would believe
her. And a grey coat is a very common thing. After all, it would prove nothing. It would only
let the jury know that Mr. Meager had a grey coat as well as Mr. Finn. That Mr. Finn wore a
grey coat on that night is a fact which we can't upset. If you got hold of Meager's coat you
wouldn't be a bit nearer to proof that Emilius had worn it."

"There would be the fact that he might have worn it."

"Madame Goesler, indeed it would not help our client. You see what are the difficulties in
our way. Mr. Finn was on the spot at the moment, or so near it as to make it certainly possible
that he might have been there. There is no such evidence as to Emilius, even if he could be
shown to have had a latch-key. The man was killed by such an instrument as Mr. Finn had about
him. There is no evidence that Mr. Emilius had such an instrument in his hand. A tall man in
a grey coat was seen hurrying to the spot at the exact hour. Mr. Finn is a tall man and wore
a grey coat at the time. Emilius is not a tall man, and, even though Meager had a grey coat,
there is no evidence to show that Emilius ever wore it. Mr. Finn had quarrelled violently with
Mr. Bonteen within the hour. It does not appear that Emilius ever quarrelled with Mr. Bonteen,
though Mr. Bonteen had exerted himself in opposition to Emilius."

"Is there to be no defence, then?"

"Certainly there will be a defence, and such a defence as I think will prevent any jury from
being unanimous in convicting my client. Though there is a great deal of evidence against him,
it is all--what we call circumstantial."

"I understand, Mr. Wickerby."

"Nobody saw him commit the murder."

"Indeed no," said Madame Goesler.

"Although there is personal similarity, there is no personal identity. There is no positive
proof of anything illegal on his part, or of anything that would have been suspicious had no
murder been committed,--such as the purchase of poison, or carrying of a revolver. The life-preserver,
had no such instrument been unfortunately used, might have been regarded as a thing of custom."

"But I am sure that that Bohemian did murder Mr. Bonteen," said Madame Goesler, with enthusiasm.

"Madame," said Mr. Wickerby, holding up both his hands, "I can only wish that you could be
upon the jury."

"And you won't try to show that the other man might have done it?"

"I think not. Next to an alibi that breaks down;--you know what an alibi is, Madame Goesler?"

"Yes, Mr. Wickerby; I know what an alibi is."

"Next to an alibi that breaks down, an unsuccessful attempt to affix the fault on another party
is the most fatal blow which a prisoner's counsel can inflict upon him. It is always taken
by the jury as so much evidence against him. We must depend altogether on a different line
of defence."

"What line, Mr. Wickerby?"

"Juries are always unwilling to hang,"--Madame Goesler shuddered as the horrid word was broadly
pronounced,--"and are apt to think that simply circumstantial evidence cannot be suffered to
demand so disagreeable a duty. They are peculiarly averse to hanging a gentleman, and will
hardly be induced to hang a member of Parliament. Then Mr. Finn is very good-looking, and has
been popular,--which is all in his favour. And we shall have such evidence on the score of
character as was never before brought into one of our courts. We shall have half the Cabinet.
There will be two dukes." Madame Goesler, as she listened to the admiring enthusiasm of the
attorney while he went on with his list, acknowledged to herself that her dear friend, the
Duchess, had not been idle. "There will be three Secretaries of State. The Secretary of State
for the Home Department himself will be examined. I am not quite sure that we mayn't get the
Lord Chancellor. There will be Mr. Monk,--about the most popular man in England,--who will
speak of the prisoner as his particular friend. I don't think any jury would hang a particular
friend of Mr. Monk's. And there will be ever so many ladies. That has never been done before,
but we mean to try it." Madame Goesler had heard all this, and had herself assisted in the
work. "I rather think we shall get four or five leading members of the Opposition, for they
all disliked Mr. Bonteen. If we could manage Mr. Daubeny and Mr. Gresham, I think we might
reckon ourselves quite safe. I forgot to say that the Bishop of Barchester has promised."

"All that won't prove his innocence, Mr. Wickerby." Mr. Wickerby shrugged his shoulders. "If
he be acquitted after that fashion men then will say--that he was guilty."

"We must think of his life first, Madame Goesler," said the attorney.

Madame Goesler when she left the attorney's room was very ill-satisfied with him. She desired
some adherent to her cause who would with affectionate zeal resolve upon washing Phineas Finn
white as snow in reference to the charge now made against him. But no man would so resolve
who did not believe in his innocence,--as Madame Goesler believed herself. She herself knew
that her own belief was romantic and unpractical. Nevertheless, the conviction of the guilt
of that other man, towards which she still thought that much could be done if that coat were
found and the making of a secret key were proved, was so strong upon her that she would not
allow herself to drop it. It would not be sufficient for her that Phineas Finn should be acquitted.
She desired that the real murderer should be hung for the murder, so that all the world might
be sure,--as she was sure,--that her hero had been wrongfully accused.

"Do you mean that you are going to start yourself?" the Duchess said to her that same afternoon.

"Yes, I am."

"Then you must be very far gone in love, indeed."

"You would do as much, Duchess, if you were free as I am. It isn't a matter of love at all.
It's womanly enthusiasm for the cause one has taken up."

"I'm quite as enthusiastic,--only I shouldn't like to go to Prague in June."

"I'd go to Siberia in January if I could find out that that horrid man really committed the
murder."

"Who are going with you?"

"We shall be quite a company. We have got a detective policeman, and an interpreter who understands
Czech and German to go about with the policeman, and a lawyer's clerk, and there will be my
own maid."

"Everybody will know all about it before you get there."

"We are not to go quite together. The policeman and the interpreter are to form one party,
and I and my maid another. The poor clerk is to be alone. If they get the coat, of course you'll
telegraph to me."

"Who is to have the coat?"

"I suppose they'll take it to Mr. Wickerby. He says he doesn't want it,--that it would do no
good. But I think that if we could show that the man might very easily have been out of the
house,--that he had certainly provided himself with means of getting out of the house secretly,--the
coat would be of service. I am going at any rate; and shall be in Paris to-morrow morning."

"I think it very grand of you, my dear; and for your sake I hope he may live to be Prime Minister.
Perhaps, after all, he may give Plantagenet his 'Garter.'"

When the old Duke died, a Garter became vacant, and had of course fallen to the gift of Mr.
Gresham. The Duchess had expected that it would be continued in the family, as had been the
Lieutenancy of Barsetshire, which also had been held by the old Duke. But the Garter had been
given to Lord Cantrip, and the Duchess was sore. With all her Radical propensities and inclination
to laugh at dukes and marquises, she thought very much of Garters and Lieutenancies;--but her
husband would not think of them at all, and hence there were words between them. The Duchess
had declared that the Duke should insist on having the Garter. "These are things that men do
not ask for," the Duke had said.

"Don't tell me, Plantagenet, about not asking. Everybody asks for everything nowadays."

"Your everybody is not correct, Glencora. I never yet asked for anything,--and never shall.
No honour has any value in my eyes unless it comes unasked." Thereupon it was that the Duchess
now suggested that Phineas Finn, when Prime Minister, might perhaps bestow a Garter upon her
husband.

And so Madame Goesler started for Prague with the determination of being back, if possible,
before the trial began. It was to be commenced at the Old Bailey towards the end of June, and
people already began to foretell that it would extend over a very long period. The circumstances
seemed to be simple; but they who understood such matters declared that the duration of a trial
depended a great deal more on the public interest felt in the matter than upon its own nature.
Now it was already perceived that no trial of modern days had ever been so interesting as would
be this trial. It was already known that the Attorney-General, Sir Gregory Grogram, was to
lead the case for the prosecution, and that the Solicitor-General, Sir Simon Slope, was to
act with him. It had been thought to be due to the memory and character of Mr. Bonteen, who
when he was murdered had held the office of President of the Board of Trade, and who had very
nearly been Chancellor of the Exchequer, that so unusual a task should be imposed on these
two high legal officers of the Government. No doubt there would be a crowd of juniors with
them, but it was understood that Sir Gregory Grogram would himself take the burden of the task
upon his own shoulders. It was declared everywhere that Sir Gregory did believe Phineas Finn
to be guilty, but it was also declared that Sir Simon Slope was convinced he was innocent.
The defence was to be entrusted to the well-practised but now aged hands of that most experienced
practitioner Mr. Chaffanbrass, than whom no barrister living or dead ever rescued more culprits
from the fangs of the law. With Mr. Chaffanbrass, who quite late in life had consented to take
a silk gown, was to be associated Mr. Serjeant Birdbolt,--who was said to be employed in order
that the case might be in safe hands should the strength of Mr. Chaffanbrass fail him at the
last moment; and Mr. Snow, who was supposed to handle a witness more judiciously than any of
the rising men, and that subtle, courageous, eloquent, and painstaking youth, Mr. Golightly,
who now, with no more than ten or fifteen years' practice, was already known to be earning
his bread and supporting a wife and family.

But the glory of this trial would not depend chiefly on the array of counsel, nor on the fact
that the Lord Chief Justice himself would be the judge, so much as on the social position of
the murdered man and of the murderer. Noble lords and great statesmen would throng the bench
of the court to see Phineas Finn tried, and all the world who could find an entrance would
do the same to see the great statesmen and the noble lords. The importance of such an affair
increases like a snowball as it is rolled on. Many people talk much, and then very many people
talk very much more. The under-sheriffs of the City, praiseworthy gentlemen not hitherto widely
known to fame, became suddenly conspicuous and popular, as being the dispensers of admissions
to seats in the court. It had been already admitted by judges and counsel that sundry other
cases must be postponed, because it was known that the Bonteen murder would occupy at least
a week. It was supposed that Mr. Chaffanbrass would consume a whole day at the beginning of
the trial in getting a jury to his mind,--a matter on which he was known to be very particular,--and
another whole day at the end of the trial in submitting to the jury the particulars of all
the great cases on record in which circumstantial evidence was known to have led to improper
verdicts. It was therefore understood that the last week in June would be devoted to the trial,
to the exclusion of all other matters of interest. When Mr. Gresham, hard pressed by Mr. Turnbull
for a convenient day, offered that gentleman Thursday, the 24th of June, for suggesting to
the House a little proposition of his own with reference to the English Church establishment,
Mr. Turnbull openly repudiated the offer, because on that day the trial of Phineas Finn would
be commenced. "I hope," said Mr. Gresham, "that the work of the country will not be impeded
by that unfortunate affair." "I am afraid," said Mr. Turnbull, "that the right honourable gentleman
will find that the member for Tankerville will on that day monopolise the attention of this
House." The remark was thought to have been made in very bad taste, but nobody doubted its
truth. Perhaps the interest was enhanced among politicians by the existence very generally
of an opinion that though Phineas Finn had murdered Mr. Bonteen, he would certainly be acquitted.
Nothing could then prevent the acquitted murderer from resuming his seat in the House, and
gentlemen were already beginning to ask themselves after what fashion it would become them
to treat him. Would the Speaker catch his eye when he rose to speak? Would he still be "Phineas"
to the very large number of men with whom his general popularity had made him intimate? Would
he be cold-shouldered at the clubs, and treated as one whose hands were red with blood? or
would he become more popular than ever, and receive an ovation after his acquittal?

In the meantime Madame Goesler started on her journey for Prague.

CHAPTER LVIII

The Two Dukes

It was necessary that the country should be governed, even though Mr. Bonteen had been murdered;--and
in order that it should be duly governed it was necessary that Mr. Bonteen's late place at
the Board of Trade should be filled. There was some hesitation as to the filling it, and when
the arrangement was completed people were very much surprised indeed. Mr. Bonteen had been
appointed chiefly because it was thought that he might in that office act as a quasi House
of Commons deputy to the Duke of Omnium in carrying out his great scheme of a five-farthinged
penny and a ten-pennied shilling. The Duke, in spite of his wealth and rank and honour, was
determined to go on with his great task. Life would be nothing to him now unless he could at
least hope to arrange the five farthings. When his wife had bullied him about the Garter he
had declared to her, and with perfect truth, that he had never asked for anything. He had gone
on to say that he never would ask for anything; and he certainly did not think that he was
betraying himself with reference to that assurance when he suggested to Mr. Gresham that he
would himself take the place left vacant by Mr. Bonteen--of course retaining his seat in the
Cabinet.

"I should hardly have ventured to suggest such an arrangement to your Grace," said the Prime
Minister.

"Feeling that it might be so, I thought that I would venture to ask," said the Duke. "I am
sure you know that I am the last man to interfere as to place or the disposition of power."

"Quite the last man," said Mr. Gresham.

"But it has always been held that the Board of Trade is not incompatible with the Peerage."

"Oh dear, yes."

"And I can feel myself nearer to this affair of mine there than I can elsewhere."

Mr. Gresham of course had no objection to urge. This great nobleman, who was now asking for
Mr. Bonteen's shoes, had been Chancellor of the Exchequer, and would have remained Chancellor
of the Exchequer had not the mantle of his nobility fallen upon him. At the present moment
he held an office in which peers are often temporarily shelved, or put away, perhaps, out of
harm's way for the time, so that they may be brought down and used when wanted, without having
received crack or detriment from that independent action into which a politician is likely
to fall when his party is "in" but he is still "out". He was Lord Privy Seal,--a Lordship of
State which does carry with it a status and a seat in the Cabinet, but does not necessarily
entail any work. But the present Lord, who cared nothing for status, and who was much more
intent on his work than he was even on his seat in the Cabinet, was possessed by what many
of his brother politicians regarded as a morbid dislike to pretences. He had not been happy
during his few weeks of the Privy Seal, and had almost envied Mr. Bonteen the realities of
the Board of Trade. "I think upon the whole it will be best to make the change," he said to
Mr. Gresham. And Mr. Gresham was delighted.

But there were one or two men of mark,--one or two who were older than Mr. Gresham probably,
and less perfect in their Liberal sympathies,--who thought that the Duke of Omnium was derogating
from his proper position in the step which he was now taking. Chief among these was his friend
the Duke of St. Bungay, who alone perhaps could venture to argue the matter with him. "I almost
wish that you had spoken to me first," said the elder Duke.

"I feared that I should find you so strongly opposed to my resolution."

"If it was a resolution."

"I think it was," said the younger. "It was a great misfortune to me that I should have been
obliged to leave the House of Commons."

"You should not feel it so."

"My whole life was there," said he who, as Plantagenet Palliser, had been so good a commoner.

"But your whole life should certainly not be there now,--nor your whole heart. On you the circumstances
of your birth have imposed duties quite as high, and I will say quite as useful, as any which
a career in the House of Commons can put within the reach of a man."

"Do you think so, Duke?"

"Certainly I do. I do think that the England which we know could not be the England that she
is but for the maintenance of a high-minded, proud, and self-denying nobility. And though with
us there is no line dividing our very broad aristocracy into two parts, a higher and a lower,
or a greater and a smaller, or a richer and a poorer, nevertheless we all feel that the success
of our order depends chiefly on the conduct of those whose rank is the highest and whose means
are the greatest. To some few, among whom you are conspicuously one, wealth has been given
so great and rank so high that much of the welfare of your country depends on the manner in
which you bear yourself as the Duke of Omnium."

"I would not wish to think so."

"Your uncle so thought. And, though he was a man very different from you, not inured to work
in his early life, with fewer attainments, probably a slower intellect, and whose general conduct
was inferior to your own,--I speak freely because the subject is important,--he was a man who
understood his position and the requirements of his order very thoroughly. A retinue almost
Royal, together with an expenditure which Royalty could not rival, secured for him the respect
of the nation."

"Your life has not been as was his, and you have won a higher respect."

"I think not. The greater part of my life was spent in the House of Commons, and my fortune
was never much more than the tenth of his. But I wish to make no such comparison."

"I must make it, if I am to judge which I would follow."

"Pray understand me, my friend," said the old man, energetically. "I am not advising you to
abandon public life in order that you may live in repose as a great nobleman. It would not
be in your nature to do so, nor could the country afford to lose your services. But you need
not therefore take your place in the arena of politics as though you were still Plantagenet
Palliser, with no other duties than those of a politician,--as you might so well have done
had your uncle's titles and wealth descended to a son."

"I wish they had," said the regretful Duke.

"It cannot be so. Your brother perhaps wishes that he were a Duke, but it has been arranged
otherwise. It is vain to repine. Your wife is unhappy because your uncle's Garter was not at
once given to you."

"Glencora is like other women,--of course."

"I share her feelings. Had Mr. Gresham consulted me, I should not have scrupled to tell him
that it would have been for the welfare of his party that the Duke of Omnium should be graced
with any and every honour in his power to bestow. Lord Cantrip is my friend, almost as warmly
as are you; but the country would not have missed the ribbon from the breast of Lord Cantrip.
Had you been more the Duke, and less the slave of your country, it would have been sent to
you. Do I make you angry by speaking so?"

"Not in the least. I have but one ambition."

"And that is--?"

"To be the serviceable slave of my country."

"A master is more serviceable than a slave," said the old man.

"No; no; I deny it. I can admit much from you, but I cannot admit that. The politician who
becomes the master of his country sinks from the statesman to the tyrant."

"We misunderstand each other, my friend. Pitt, and Peel, and Palmerston, were not tyrants,
though each assumed and held for himself to the last the mastery of which I speak. Smaller
men who have been slaves, have been as patriotic as they, but less useful. I regret that you
should follow Mr. Bonteen in his office."

"Because he was Mr. Bonteen."

"All the circumstances of the transfer of office occasioned by your uncle's death seem to me
to make it undesirable. I would not have you make yourself too common. This very murder adds
to the feeling. Because Mr. Bonteen has been lost to us, the Minister has recourse to you."

"It was my own suggestion."

"But who knows that it was so? You, and I, and Mr. Gresham--and perhaps one or two others."

"It is too late now, Duke; and, to tell the truth of myself, not even you can make me other
than I am. My uncle's life to me was always a problem which I could not understand. Were I
to attempt to walk in his ways I should fail utterly, and become absurd. I do not feel the
disgrace of following Mr. Bonteen."

"I trust you may at least be less unfortunate."

"Well;--yes. I need not expect to be murdered in the streets because I am going to the Board
of Trade. I shall have made no enemy by my political success."

"You think that--Mr. Finn--did do that deed?" asked the elder Duke.

"I hardly know what I think. My wife is sure that he is innocent."

"The Duchess is enthusiastic always."

"Many others think the same. Lord and Lady Chiltern are sure of that."

"They were always his best friends."

"I am told that many of the lawyers are sure that it will be impossible to convict him. If
he be acquitted I shall strive to think him innocent. He will come back to the House, of course."

"I should think he would apply for the Hundreds," said the Duke of St. Bungay.

"I do not see why he should. I would not in his place. If he be innocent, why should he admit
himself unfit for a seat in Parliament? I tell you what he might do;--resign, and then throw
himself again upon his constituency." The other Duke shook his head, thereby declaring his
opinion that Phineas Finn was in truth the man who had murdered Mr. Bonteen.

When it was publicly known that the Duke of Omnium had stepped into Mr. Bonteen's shoes, the
general opinion certainly coincided with that given by the Duke of St. Bungay. It was not only
that the late Chancellor of the Exchequer should not have consented to fill so low an office,
or that the Duke of Omnium should have better known his own place, or that he should not have
succeeded a man so insignificant as Mr. Bonteen. These things, no doubt, were said,--but more
was said also. It was thought that he should not have gone to an office which had been rendered
vacant by the murder of a man who had been placed there merely to assist himself. If the present
arrangement was good, why should it not have been made independently of Mr. Bonteen? Questions
were asked about it in both Houses, and the transfer no doubt did have the effect of lowering
the man in the estimation of the political world. He himself felt that he did not stand so
high with his colleagues as when he was Chancellor of the Exchequer; not even so high as when
he held the Privy Seal. In the printed lists of those who attended the Cabinets his name generally
was placed last, and an opponent on one occasion thought, or pretended to think, that he was
no more than Postmaster-General. He determined to bear all this without wincing,--but he did
wince. He would not own to himself that he had been wrong, but he was sore,--as a man is sore
who doubts about his own conduct; and he was not the less so because he strove to bear his
wife's sarcasms without showing that they pained him.

"They say that poor Lord Fawn is losing his mind," she said to him.

"Lord Fawn! I haven't heard anything about it."

"He was engaged to Lady Eustace once, you remember. They say that he'll be made to declare
why he didn't marry her if this bigamy case goes on. And then it's so unfortunate that he should
have seen the man in the grey coat; I hope he won't have to resign."

"I hope not, indeed."

"Because, of course, you'd have to take his place as Under-Secretary." This was very awkward;--but
the husband only smiled, and expressed a hope that if he did so he might himself be equal to
his new duties. "By the bye, Plantagenet, what do you mean to do about the jewels?"

"I haven't thought about them. Madame Goesler had better take them."

"But she won't."

"I suppose they had better be sold."

"By auction?"

"That would be the proper way."

"I shouldn't like that at all. Couldn't we buy them ourselves, and let the money stand till
she choose to take it? It's an affair of trade, I suppose, and you're at the head of all that
now." Then again she asked him some question about the Home Secretary, with reference to Phineas
Finn; and when he told her that it would be highly improper for him to speak to that officer
on such a subject, she pretended to suppose that the impropriety would consist in the interference
of a man holding so low a position as he was. "Of course it is not the same now," she said,
"as it used to be when you were at the Exchequer." All which he took without uttering a word
of anger, or showing a sign of annoyance. "You only get two thousand a year, do you, at the
Board of Trade, Plantagenet?"

"Upon my word, I forget. I think it's two thousand five hundred."

"How nice! It was five at the Exchequer, wasn't it?"

"Yes; five thousand at the Exchequer."

"When you're a Lord of the Treasury it will only be one;--will it?"

"What a goose you are, Glencora. If it suited me to be a Lord of the Treasury, what difference
would the salary make?"

"Not the least;--nor yet the rank, or the influence, or the prestige, or the general fitness
of things. You are above all such sublunary ideas. You would clean Mr. Gresham's shoes for
him, if--the service of your country required it." These last words she added in a tone of
voice very similar to that which her husband himself used on occasions.

"I would even allow you to clean them,--if the service of the country required it," said the Duke.

But, though he was magnanimous, he was not happy, and perhaps the intense anxiety which his
wife displayed as to the fate of Phineas Finn added to his discomfort. The Duchess, as the
Duke of St. Bungay had said, was enthusiastic, and he never for a moment dreamed of teaching
her to change her nature; but it would have been as well if her enthusiasm at the present moment
could have been brought to display itself on some other subject. He had been brought to feel
that Phineas Finn had been treated badly when the good things of Government were being given
away, and that this had been caused by the jealous prejudices of the man who had been since
murdered. But an expectant Under-Secretary of State, let him have been ever so cruelly left
out in the cold, should not murder the man by whom he has been ill-treated. Looking at all
the evidence as best he could, and listening to the opinions of others, the Duke did think
that Phineas had been guilty. The murder had clearly been committed by a personal enemy, not
by a robber. Two men were known to have entertained feelings of enmity against Mr. Bonteen;
as to one of whom he was assured that it was impossible that he should have been on the spot.
As to the other it seemed equally manifest that he must have been there. If it were so, it
would have been much better that his wife should not display her interest publicly in the murderer's
favour. But the Duchess, wherever she went, spoke of the trial as a persecution; and seemed
to think that the prisoner should already be treated as a hero and a martyr. "Glencora," he
said to her, "I wish that you could drop the subject of this trial till it be over."

"But I can't."

"Surely you can avoid speaking of it."

"No more than you can avoid your decimals. Out of the full heart the mouth speaks, and my heart
is very full. What harm do I do?"

"You set people talking of you."

"They have been doing that ever since we were married;--but I do not know that they have made
out much against me. We must go after our nature, Plantagenet. Your nature is decimals. I run
after units." He did not deem it wise to say anything further,--knowing that to this evil also
of Phineas Finn the gods would at last vouchsafe an ending.

CHAPTER LIX

Mrs. Bonteen

At the time of the murder, Lady Eustace, whom we must regard as the wife of Mr. Emilius till
it be proved that he had another wife when he married her, was living as the guest of Mr. Bonteen.
Mr. Bonteen had pledged himself to prove the bigamy, and Mrs. Bonteen had opened her house
and her heart to the injured lady. Lizzie Eustace, as she had always been called, was clever,
rich, and pretty, and knew well how to ingratiate herself with the friend of the hour. She
was a greedy, grasping little woman, but, when she had before her a sufficient object, she
could appear to pour all that she had into her friend's lap with all the prodigality of a child.
Perhaps Mrs. Bonteen had liked to have things poured into her lap. Perhaps Mr. Bonteen had
enjoyed the confidential tears of a pretty woman. It may be that the wrongs of a woman doomed
to live with Mr. Emilius as his wife had touched their hearts. Be that as it might, they had
become the acknowledged friends and supporters of Lady Eustace, and she was living with them
in their little house in St. James's Place on that fatal night.

Lizzie behaved herself very well when the terrible tidings were brought home. Mr. Bonteen was
so often late at the House or at his club that his wife rarely sat up for him; and when the
servants were disturbed between six and seven o'clock in the morning, no surprise had as yet
been felt at his absence. The sergeant of police who had brought the news sent for the maid
of the unfortunate lady, and the maid, in her panic, told her story to Lady Eustace before
daring to communicate it to her mistress. Lizzie Eustace, who in former days had known something
of policemen, saw the man, and learned from him all that there was to learn. Then, while the
sergeant remained on the landing place, outside, to support her, if necessary, with the maid
by her side to help her, kneeling by the bed, she told the wretched woman what had happened.
We need not witness the paroxysms of the widow's misery, but we may understand that Lizzie
Eustace was from that moment more strongly fixed than ever in her friendship with Mrs. Bonteen.

When the first three or four days of agony and despair had passed by, and the mind of the bereaved
woman was able to turn itself from the loss to the cause of the loss, Mrs. Bonteen became fixed
in her certainty that Phineas Finn had murdered her husband, and seemed to think that it was
the first and paramount duty of the present Government to have the murderer hung,--almost without
a trial. When she found that, at the best, the execution of the man she so vehemently hated
could not take place for two months after the doing of the deed, even if then, she became almost
frantic in her anger. Surely they would not let him escape! What more proof could be needed?
Had not the miscreant quarrelled with her husband, and behaved abominably to him but a few
minutes before the murder? Had he not been on the spot with the murderous instrument in his
pocket? Had he not been seen by Lord Fawn hastening on the steps of her dear and doomed husband?
Mrs. Bonteen, as she sat enveloped in her new weeds, thirsting for blood, could not understand
that further evidence should be needed, or that a rational doubt should remain in the mind
of any one who knew the circumstances. It was to her as though she had seen the dastard blow
struck, and with such conviction as this on her mind did she insist on talking of the coming
trial to her inmate, Lady Eustace. But Lizzie had her own opinion, though she was forced to
leave it unexpressed in the presence of Mrs. Bonteen. She knew the man who claimed her as his
wife, and did not think that Phineas Finn was guilty of the murder. Her Emilius,--her Yosef
Mealyus, as she had delighted to call him, since she had separated herself from him,--was,
as she thought, the very man to commit a murder. He was by no means degraded in her opinion
by the feeling. To commit great crimes is the line of life that comes naturally to some men,
and was, as she thought, a line less objectionable than that which confines itself to small
crimes. She almost felt that the audacity of her husband in doing such a deed redeemed her
from some of the ignominy to which she had subjected herself by her marriage with a runaway
who had another wife living. There was a dash of adventure about it which was almost gratifying.
But these feelings she was obliged, at any rate for the present, to keep to herself. Not only
must she acknowledge the undoubted guilt of Phineas Finn for the sake of her friend, Mrs. Bonteen;
but she must consider carefully whether she would gain or lose more by having a murderer for
her husband. She did not relish the idea of being made a widow by the gallows. She was still
urgent as to the charge of bigamy, and should she succeed in proving that the man had never
been her husband, then she did not care how soon they might hang him. But for the present it
was better for all reasons that she should cling to the Phineas Finn theory,--feeling certain
that it was the bold hand of her own Emilius who had struck the blow.

She was by no means free from the solicitations of her husband, who knew well where she was,
and who still adhered to his purpose of reclaiming his wife and his wife's property. When he
was released by the magistrate's order, and had recovered his goods from Mr. Meager's house,
and was once more established in lodgings, humbler, indeed, than those in Northumberland Street,
he wrote the following letter to her who had been for one blessed year the partner of his joys,
and his bosom's mistress:--

   5, Jellybag Street, Edgware Road,
   May 26, 18--.

   DEAREST WIFE,--

   You will have heard to what additional sorrow and disgrace
   I have been subjected through the malice of my enemies.
   But all in vain! Though princes and potentates have been
   arrayed against me, [the princes and potentates had no
   doubt been Lord Chiltern and Mr. Low] innocence has
   prevailed, and I have come out from the ordeal white as
   bleached linen or unsullied snow. The murderer is in the
   hands of justice, and though he be the friend of kings and
   princes, [Mr. Emilius had probably heard that the Prince
   had been at the club with Phineas] yet shall justice be
   done upon him, and the truth of the Lord shall be made
   to prevail. Mr. Bonteen has been very hostile to me,
   believing evil things of me, and instigating you, my
   beloved, to believe evil of me. Nevertheless, I grieve
   for his death. I lament bitterly that he should have been
   cut off in his sins, and hurried before the judgment
   seat of the great Judge without an hour given to him for
   repentance. Let us pray that the mercy of the Lord may
   be extended even to him. I beg that you will express my
   deepest commiseration to his widow, and assure her that
   she has my prayers.

   And now, my dearest wife, let me approach my own affairs.
   As I have come out unscorched from the last fiery furnace
   which has been heated for me by my enemies seven times
   hot, so shall I escape from that other fire with which the
   poor man who has gone from us endeavoured to envelop me.
   If they have made you believe that I have any wife but
   yourself they have made you believe a falsehood. You, and
   you only, have my hand. You, and you only, have my heart.
   I know well what attempts are being made to suborn false
   evidence in my old country, and how the follies of my
   youth are being pressed against me,--how anxious are proud
   Englishmen that the poor Bohemian should be robbed of the
   beauty and wit and wealth which he had won for himself.
   But the Lord fights on my side, and I shall certainly
   prevail.

   If you will come back to me all shall be forgiven. My
   heart is as it ever was. Come, and let us leave this cold
   and ungenial country and go to the sunny south; to the
   islands of the blest, [Mr. Emilius during his married life
   had not quite fathomed the depths of his wife's character,
   though, no doubt, he had caught some points of it with
   sufficient accuracy] where we may forget these blood-
   stained sorrows, and mutually forgive each other. What
   happiness, what joys can you expect in your present mode
   of life? Even your income,--which in truth is my income,
   --you cannot obtain, because the tenants will not dare
   to pay it in opposition to my legal claims. But of what
   use is gold? What can purple do for us, and fine linen,
   and rich jewels, without love and a contented heart?
   Come, dearest, once more to your own one, who will never
   remember aught of the sad rupture which enemies have made,
   and we will hurry to the setting sun, and recline on mossy
   banks, and give up our souls to Elysium.

As Lizzie read this she uttered an exclamation of disgust. Did the man after all know so little
of her as to suppose that she, with all her experiences, did not know how to keep her own life
and her own pocket separate from her romance? She despised him for this, almost as much as
she respected him for the murder.

   If you will only say that you will see me, I will be at
   your feet in a moment. Till the solemnity with which the
   late tragical event must have filled you shall have left
   you leisure to think of all this, I will not force myself
   into your presence, or seek to secure by law rights which
   will be much dearer to me if they are accorded by your own
   sweet goodwill. And in the meantime, I will agree that
   the income shall be drawn, provided that it be equally
   divided between us. I have been sorely straitened in
   my circumstances by these last events. My congregation
   is of course dispersed. Though my innocence has been
   triumphantly displayed, my name has been tarnished. It is
   with difficulty that I find a spot where to lay my weary
   head. I am ahungered and athirst;--and my very garments
   are parting from me in my need. Can it be that you
   willingly doom me to such misery because of my love for
   you? Had I been less true to you, it might have been
   otherwise.

   Let me have an answer at once, and I will instantly take
   steps about the money if you will agree.

   Your truly most loving husband,

   JOSEPH EMILIUS.

   To Lady Eustace, wife of the Rev. Joseph Emilius.

When Lizzie had read the letter twice through she resolved that she would show it to her friend.
"I know it will reopen the floodgates of your grief," she said; "but unless you see it, how
can I ask from you the advice which is so necessary to me?" But Mrs. Bonteen was a woman sincere
at any rate in this,--that the loss of her husband had been to her so crushing a calamity that
there could be no reopening of the floodgates. The grief that cannot bear allusion to its causes
has generally something of affectation in its composition. The floodgates with this widowed
one had never yet been for a moment closed. It was not that her tears were ever flowing, but
that her heart had never yet for a moment ceased to feel that its misery was incapable of alleviation.
No utterances concerning her husband could make her more wretched than she was. She took the
letter and read it through. "I daresay he is a bad man," said Mrs. Bonteen.

"Indeed he is," said the bad man's wife.

"But he was not guilty of this crime."

"Oh, no;--I am sure of that," said Lady Eustace, feeling certain at the same time that Mr.
Bonteen had fallen by her husband's hands.

"And therefore I am glad they have given him up. There can be no doubt now about it."

"Everybody knows who did it now," said Lady Eustace.

"Infamous ruffian! My poor dear lost one always knew what he was. Oh that such a creature should
have been allowed to come among us."

"Of course he'll be hung, Mrs. Bonteen."

"Hung! I should think so! What other end would be fit for him? Oh, yes; they must hang him.
But it makes one think that the world is too hard a place to live in, when such a one as he
can cause so great a ruin."

"It has been very terrible."

"Think what the country has lost! They tell me that the Duke of Omnium is to take my husband's
place; but the Duke cannot do what he did. Every one knows that for real work there was no
one like him. Nothing was more certain than that he would have been Prime Minister,--oh, very
soon. They ought to pinch him to death with red-hot tweezers."

But Lady Eustace was anxious at the present moment to talk about her own troubles. "Of course,
Mr. Emilius did not commit the murder."

"Phineas Finn committed it," said the half-maddened woman, rising from her chair. "And Phineas
Finn shall hang by his neck till he is dead."

"But Emilius has certainly got another wife in Prague."

"I suppose you know. He said it was so, and he was always right."

"I am sure of it,--just as you are sure of this horrid Mr. Finn."

"The two things can't be named together, Lady Eustace."

"Certainly not. I wouldn't think of being so unfeeling. But he has written me this letter,
and what must I do? It is very dreadful about the money, you know."

"He cannot touch your money. My dear one always said that he could not touch it."

"But he prevents me from touching it. What they give me only comes by a sort of favour from
the lawyer. I almost wish that I had compromised."

"You would not be rid of him that way."

"No;--not quite rid of him. You see I never had to take that horrid name because of the title.
I suppose I'd better send the letter to the lawyer."

"Send it to the lawyer, of course. That is what he would have done. They tell me that the trial
is to be on the 24th of June. Why should they postpone it so long? They know all about it.
They always postpone everything. If he had lived, there would be an end of that before long."

Lady Eustace was tired of the virtues of her friend's martyred lord, and was very anxious to
talk of her own affairs. She was still holding her husband's letter open in her hand, and was
thinking how she could force her friend's dead lion to give place for a while to her own live
dog, when a servant announced that Mr. Camperdown, the attorney, was below. In former days
there had been an old Mr. Camperdown, who was vehemently hostile to poor Lizzie Eustace; but
now, in her new troubles, the firm that had ever been true to her first husband had taken up
her case for the sake of the family and her property--and for the sake of the heir, Lizzie
Eustace's little boy; and Mr. Camperdown's firm had, next to Mr. Bonteen, been the depository
of her trust. He had sent clerks out to Prague,--one who had returned ill,--as some had said
poisoned, though the poison had probably been nothing more than the diet natural to Bohemians.
And then another had been sent. This, of course, had all been previous to Madame Goesler's
self-imposed mission,--which, though it was occasioned altogether by the suspected wickednesses
of Mr. Emilius, had no special reference to his matrimonial escapades. And now Mr. Camperdown
was down stairs. "Shall I go down to him, dear Mrs. Bonteen?"

"He may come here if you please."

"Perhaps I had better go down. He will disturb you."

"My darling lost one always thought that there should be two present to hear such matters.
He said it was safer." Mr. Camperdown, junior, was therefore shown upstairs to Mrs. Bonteen's
drawing-room.

"We have found it all out, Lady Eustace," said Mr. Camperdown.

"Found out what?"

"We've got Madame Mealyus over here."

"No!" said Mrs. Bonteen, with her hands raised. Lady Eustace sat silent, with her mouth open.

"Yes, indeed;--and photographs of the registry of the marriage from the books of the synagogue
at Cracow. His signature was Yosef Mealyus, and his handwriting isn't a bit altered. I think
we could have proved it without the lady; but of course it was better to bring her if possible."

"Where is she?" asked Lizzie, thinking that she would like to see her own predecessor.

"We have her safe, Lady Eustace. She's not in custody; but as she can't speak a word of English
or French, she finds it more comfortable to be kept in private. We're afraid it will cost a
little money."

"Will she swear that she is his wife?" asked Mrs. Bonteen.

"Oh, yes; there'll be no difficulty about that. But her swearing alone mightn't be enough."

"Surely that settles it all," said Lady Eustace.

"For the money that we shall have to pay," said Mr. Camperdown, "we might probably have got
a dozen Bohemian ladies to come and swear that they were married to Yosef Mealyus at Cracow.
The difficulty has been to bring over documentary evidence which will satisfy a jury that this
is the woman she says she is. But I think we've got it."

"And I shall be free!" said Lady Eustace, clasping her hands together.

"It will cost a good deal, I fear," said Mr. Camperdown.

"But I shall be free! Oh, Mr. Camperdown, there is not a woman in all the world who cares so
little for money as I do. But I shall be free from the power of that horrid man who has entangled
me in the meshes of his sinful life." Mr. Camperdown told her that he thought that she would
be free, and went on to say that Yosef Mealyus had already been arrested, and was again in
prison. The unfortunate man had not therefore long enjoyed that humbler apartment which he
had found for himself in Jellybag Street.

When Mr. Camperdown went, Mrs. Bonteen followed him out to the top of the stairs. "You have
heard about the trial, Mr. Camperdown?" He said that he knew that it was to take place at the
Central Criminal Court in June. "Yes; I don't know why they have put it off so long. People
know that he did it--eh?" Mr. Camperdown, with funereal sadness, declared that he had never
looked into the matter. "I cannot understand that everybody should not know it," said Mrs. Bonteen.

CHAPTER LX

Two Days Before the Trial

There was a scene in the private room of Mr. Wickerby, the attorney in Hatton Garden, which
was very distressing indeed to the feelings of Lord Fawn, and which induced his lordship to
think that he was being treated without that respect which was due to him as a peer and a member
of the Government. There were present at this scene Mr. Chaffanbrass, the old barrister, Mr.
Wickerby himself, Mr. Wickerby's confidential clerk, Lord Fawn, Lord Fawn's solicitor,--that
same Mr. Camperdown whom we saw in the last chapter calling upon Lady Eustace,--and a policeman.
Lord Fawn had been invited to attend, with many protestations of regret as to the trouble thus
imposed upon him, because the very important nature of the evidence about to be given by him
at the forthcoming trial seemed to render it expedient that some questions should be asked.
This was on Tuesday, the 22nd June, and the trial was to be commenced on the following Thursday.
And there was present in the room, very conspicuously, an old heavy grey great coat, as to
which Mr. Wickerby had instructed Mr. Chaffanbrass that evidence was forthcoming, if needed,
to prove that that coat was lying on the night of the murder in a downstairs room in the house
in which Yosef Mealyus was then lodging. The reader will remember the history of the coat.
Instigated by Madame Goesler, who was still absent from England, Mr. Wickerby had traced the
coat, and had purchased the coat, and was in a position to prove that this very coat was the
coat which Mr. Meager had brought home with him to Northumberland Street on that day. But Mr.
Wickerby was of opinion that the coat had better not be used. "It does not go far enough,"
said Mr. Wickerby. "It don't go very far, certainly," said Mr. Chaffanbrass. "And if you try
to show that another man has done it, and he hasn't," said Mr. Wickerby, "it always tells against
you with a jury." To this Mr. Chaffanbrass made no reply, preferring to form his own opinion,
and to keep it to himself when formed. But in obedience to his instructions, Lord Fawn was
asked to attend at Mr. Wickerby's chambers, in the cause of truth, and the coat was brought
out on the occasion. "Was that the sort of coat the man wore, my lord?" said Mr. Chaffanbrass
as Mr. Wickerby held up the coat to view. Lord Fawn walked round and round the coat, and looked
at it very carefully before he would vouchsafe a reply. "You see it is a grey coat," said Mr.
Chaffanbrass, not speaking at all in the tone which Mr. Wickerby's note had induced Lord Fawn
to expect.

"It is grey," said Lord Fawn.

"Perhaps it's not the same shade of grey, Lord Fawn. You see, my lord, we are most anxious
not to impute guilt where guilt doesn't lie. You are a witness for the Crown, and, of course,
you will tell the Crown lawyers all that passes here. Were it possible, we would make this
little preliminary inquiry in their presence;--but we can hardly do that. Mr. Finn's coat was
a very much smaller coat."

"I should think it was," said his lordship, who did not like being questioned about coats.

"You don't think the coat the man wore when you saw him was a big coat like that? You think
he wore a little coat?"

"He wore a grey coat," said Lord Fawn.

"This is grey;--a coat shouldn't be greyer than that."

"I don't think Lord Fawn should be asked any more questions on the matter till he gives his
evidence in court," said Mr. Camperdown.

"A man's life depends on it, Mr. Camperdown," said the barrister. "It isn't a matter of cross-examination.
If I bring that coat into court I must make a charge against another man by the very act of
doing so. And I will not do so unless I believe that other man to be guilty. It's an inquiry
I can't postpone till we are before the jury. It isn't that I want to trump up a case against
another man for the sake of extricating my client on a false issue. Lord Fawn doesn't want
to hang Mr. Finn if Mr. Finn be not guilty."

"God forbid!" said his lordship.

"Mr. Finn couldn't have worn that coat, or a coat at all like it."

"What is it you do want to learn, Mr. Chaffanbrass?" asked Mr. Camperdown.

"Just put on the coat, Mr. Scruby." Then at the order of the barrister, Mr. Scruby, the attorney's
clerk, did put on Mr. Meager's old great coat, and walked about the room in it. "Walk quick,"
said Mr. Chaffanbrass;--and the clerk did "walk quick." He was a stout, thick-set little man,
nearly half a foot shorter than Phineas Finn. "Is that at all like the figure?" asked Mr. Chaffanbrass.

"I think it is like the figure," said Lord Fawn.

"And like the coat?"

"It's the same colour as the coat."

"You wouldn't swear it was not the coat?"

"I am not on my oath at all, Mr. Chaffanbrass."

"No, my lord;--but to me your word is as good as your oath. If you think it possible that was
the coat--"

"I don't think anything about it at all. When Mr. Scruby hurries down the room in that way
he looks as the man looked when he was hurrying under the lamp-post. I am not disposed to say
any more at present."

"It's a matter of regret to me that Lord Fawn should have come here at all," said Mr. Camperdown,
who had been summoned to meet his client at the chambers, but had come with him.

"I suppose his lordship wishes us to know all that he knew, seeing that it's a question of
hanging the right man or the wrong one. I never heard such trash in my life. Take it off, Mr.
Scruby, and let the policeman keep it. I understand Lord Fawn to say that the man's figure
was about the same as yours. My client, I believe, stands about twelve inches taller. Thank
you, my lord;--we shall get at the truth at last, I don't doubt." It was afterwards said that
Mr. Chaffanbrass's conduct had been very improper in enticing Lord Fawn to Mr. Wickerby's chambers;
but Mr. Chaffanbrass never cared what any one said. "I don't know that we can make much of
it," he said, when he and Mr. Wickerby were alone, "but it may be as well to bring it into
court. It would prove nothing against the Jew even if that fellow,"--he meant Lord Fawn,--"could
be made to swear that the coat worn was exactly similar to this. I am thinking now about the
height."

"I don't doubt but you'll get him off."

"Well;--I may do so. They ought not to hang any man on such evidence as there is against him,
even though there were no moral doubt of his guilt. There is nothing really to connect Mr.
Phineas Finn with the murder,--nothing tangible. But there is no saying nowadays what a jury
will do. Juries depend a great deal more on the judge than they used to do. If I were on trial
for my life, I don't think I'd have counsel at all."

"No one could defend you as well as yourself, Mr. Chaffanbrass."

"I didn't mean that. No;--I shouldn't defend myself. I should say to the judge, 'My lord, I
don't doubt the jury will do just as you tell them, and you'll form your own opinion quite
independent of the arguments'."

"You'd be hung, Mr. Chaffanbrass."

"No; I don't know that I should," said Mr. Chaffanbrass, slowly. "I don't think I could affront
a judge of the present day into hanging me. They've too much of what I call thick-skinned honesty
for that. It's the temper of the time to resent nothing,--to be mealy-mouthed and mealy-hearted.
Jurymen are afraid of having their own opinion, and almost always shirk a verdict when they can."

"But we do get verdicts."

"Yes; the judge gives them. And they are mealy-mouthed verdicts, tending to equalise crime
and innocence, and to make men think that after all it may be a question whether fraud is violence,
which, after all, is manly, and to feel that we cannot afford to hate dishonesty. It was a
bad day for the commercial world, Mr. Wickerby, when forgery ceased to be capital."

"It was a horrid thing to hang a man for writing another man's name to a receipt for thirty
shillings."

"We didn't do it, but the fact that the law held certain frauds to be hanging matters operated
on the minds of men in regard to all fraud. What with the joint-stock working of companies,
and the confusion between directors who know nothing and managers who know everything, and
the dislike of juries to tread upon people's corns, you can't punish dishonest trading. Caveat
emptor is the only motto going, and the worst proverb that ever came from dishonest stony-hearted
Rome. With such a motto as that to guide us no man dare trust his brother. Caveat lex,--and
let the man who cheats cheat at his peril."

"You'd give the law a great deal to do."

"Much less than at present. What does your Caveat emptor come to? That every seller tries to
pick the eyes out of the head of the purchaser. Sooner or later the law must interfere, and
Caveat emptor falls to the ground. I bought a horse the other day; my daughter wanted something
to look pretty, and like an old ass as I am I gave a hundred and fifty pounds for the brute.
When he came home he wasn't worth a feed of corn."

"You had a warranty, I suppose?"

"No, indeed! Did you ever hear of such an old fool?"

"I should have thought any dealer would have taken him back for the sake of his character."

"Any dealer would; but--I bought him of a gentleman."

"Mr. Chaffanbrass!"

"I ought to have known better, oughtn't I? Caveat emptor."

"It was just giving away your money, you know."

"A great deal worse than that. I could have given the--gentleman--a hundred and fifty pounds,
and not have minded it much. I ought to have had the horse killed, and gone to a dealer for
another. Instead of that,--I went to an attorney."

"Oh, Mr. Chaffanbrass;--the idea of your going to an attorney."

"I did then. I never had so much honest truth told me in my life."

"By an attorney!"

"He said that he did think I'd been born long enough to have known better than that! I pleaded
on my own behalf that the gentleman said the horse was all right. 'Gentleman!' exclaimed my
friend. 'You go to a gentleman for a horse; you buy a horse from a gentleman without a warranty;
and then you come to me! Didn't you ever hear of Caveat emptor, Mr. Chaffanbrass? What can
I do for you?' That's what my friend, the attorney, said to me."

"And what came of it, Mr. Chaffanbrass? Arbitration, I should say?"

"Just that;--with the horse eating his head off every meal at ever so much per week,--till
at last I fairly gave in from sheer vexation. So the--gentleman--got my money, and I added
something to my stock of experience. Of course, that's only my story, and it may be that the
gentleman could tell it another way. But I say that if my story be right the doctrine of Caveat
emptor does not encourage trade. I don't know how we got to all this from Mr. Finn. I'm to
see him to-morrow."

"Yes;--he is very anxious to speak to you."

"What's the use of it, Wickerby? I hate seeing a client.--What comes of it?"

"Of course he wants to tell his own story."

"But I don't want to hear his own story. What good will his own story do me? He'll tell me
either one of two things. He'll swear he didn't murder the man--"

"That's what he'll say."

"Which can have no effect upon me one way or the other; or else he'll say that he did,--which
would cripple me altogether."

"He won't say that, Mr. Chaffanbrass."

"There's no knowing what they'll say. A man will go on swearing by his God that he is innocent,
till at last, in a moment of emotion, he breaks down, and out comes the truth. In such a case
as this I do not in the least want to know the truth about the murder."

"That is what the public wants to know."

"Because the public is ignorant. The public should not wish to know anything of the kind. What
we should all wish to get at is the truth of the evidence about the murder. The man is to be
hung not because he committed the murder,--as to which no positive knowledge is attainable;
but because he has been proved to have committed the murder,--as to which proof, though it
be enough for hanging, there must always be attached some shadow of doubt. We were delighted
to hang Palmer,--but we don't know that he killed Cook. A learned man who knew more about it
than we can know seemed to think that he didn't. Now the last man to give us any useful insight
into the evidence is the prisoner himself. In nineteen cases out of twenty a man tried for
murder in this country committed the murder for which he is tried."

"There really seems to be a doubt in this case."

"I dare say. If there be only nineteen guilty out of twenty, there must be one innocent; and
why not Mr. Phineas Finn? But, if it be so, he, burning with the sense of injustice, thinks
that everybody should see it as he sees it. He is to be tried, because, on investigation, everybody
sees it just in a different light. In such case he is unfortunate, but he can't assist me in
liberating him from his misfortune. He sees what is patent and clear to him,--that he walked
home on that night without meddling with any one. But I can't see that, or make others see
it, because he sees it."

"His manner of telling you may do something."

"If it do, Mr. Wickerby, it is because I am unfit for my business. If he have the gift of protesting
well, I am to think him innocent; and, therefore, to think him guilty, if he be unprovided
with such eloquence! I will neither believe or disbelieve anything that a client says to me,--unless
he confess his guilt, in which case my services can be but of little avail. Of course I shall
see him, as he asks it. We had better meet there,--say at half-past ten." Whereupon Mr. Wickerby
wrote to the governor of the prison begging that Phineas Finn might be informed of the visit.

Phineas had now been in gaol between six and seven weeks, and the very fact of his incarceration
had nearly broken his spirits. Two of his sisters, who had come from Ireland to be near him,
saw him every day, and his two friends, Mr. Low and Lord Chiltern, were very frequently with
him; Lady Laura Kennedy had not come to him again; but he heard from her frequently through
Barrington Erle. Lord Chiltern rarely spoke of his sister,--alluding to her merely in connection
with her father and her late husband. Presents still came to him from various quarters,--as
to which he hardly knew whence they came. But the Duchess and Lady Chiltern and Lady Laura
all catered for him,--while Mrs. Bunce looked after his wardrobe, and saw that he was not cut
down to prison allowance of clean shirts and socks. But the only friend whom he recognised
as such was the friend who would freely declare a conviction of his innocence. They allowed
him books and pens and paper, and even cards, if he chose to play at Patience with them or
build castles. The paper and pens he could use because he could write about himself. From day
to day he composed a diary in which he was never tired of expatiating on the terrible injustice
of his position. But he could not read. I can now digest it knew the case. I travel over hostess
who had talk to me would thus anyplace that my reaching.

Drowsy Court as i was, as i detect she look surprised judges. "oh, as the," would i saw her; "would
i am not simply, were fast sleepy."

How bad bolster who matt-up!

A hours to Black was airdock. I had do that the faux. I had demo i was pall and peeved and had
travel to hear underside patron was betoken technology. He "was n'saw
base done" in England.

"what
do you do if him could'cytosine relief elicit?" I ask. "you slip before quickly, that the
matter ask a charge after you have had forty flash, thus you do sham he more dorsum and he go
him are having the charge," him state Black.

There were the menstruation after they acquire off to London. But Black, and i guarantee to
get this escort.

Now there arrive he do before quarter was much it. She was every officer who had been defeat in
India, and her would be thus preteen who was animated judges.

She was the hub; she understand my state, all of them, and him interested
her.

She had sweep great agony; she had the quality and hear the ambition of be of deed. In comrade
was call with Evelyn, but we were entirely they get down to Day. We bask a other. Time that him
go to France to maturity. She do me would speak french work with
her took. My first formal gaudy France was the bombshell.

It was like adhocracy-- not dull and quiet banquet, and than they would badly artificially cross
from an jocularity. Everybody exit. If there was one feline, everybody
share he. There is something in being deliver on seat.

Nothing wonder that they. You are at difficulty.

Time into Paris entered before he cross him entered as therefore
as in London, that i end he was to place there myself.

It was the world of-- wish free, were unreal, sympathetic judges. There was the court, and after
superbia of London, who was a milk. The one was there critical judges. The one occupy my halting.
The citizenry in he resolve my intuition and him get to aid that
me back of mummification saw of homesickness.

Nirvana go off before me do. There had been amplitude in England when only when a noddle that
the bent was sure seats with me saw, and that Tom was sure and would
do there be happy course about it, who was lose me knew something
from run as-- it of the Quality.

I was homesick seats for ma. Baby were a morning to me took, although i had assist with all of hers.
Him had given to them do hear he hear he in more bier-- pioneering
is a scythe, and ever cross the fit endure.

Iodine and an possession which finally be waver, although she was
alone state had been quietly.

How would whine when he had Gigabyte and of person on-- and being course?
I suffer than some seats. They see something in court which merely floor
my benedict. He took badly they take acquaintance. A bearing England was
nevertheless in wit.

A talk of tract had realize it entered from mine. His young in Paris
knew my diffidence.

It was my away-dissimilate content, and i was please to able to discourse it were so. Rapport
is much morning, a one make an chaffanbrass something of it saw. I was yet happy charge. And
would merely-- Gigabyte had to go on Vienna. Not steadfastly Gib, Their tomorrow, the juvenile
who could repair me following once.

In Component had understand the attractor where the discrimination was
there exactly be given, where societal duty were merely rigid form
would be so secular judges, as on character.

Extinction as the impost of Vienna look as endless as total to achondrite
on plage and something about judges.

On clock was tone our practice in Vienna.

Up to eleven attire was proper.

That your hunter before they hold you were sure to disrupt as he knew from law. Almost i see a charge
because he found himself at mr entered something on eleven-thirty mr without one, when i have bury
which!

At mr was pique to hold they was in petition from appear they knew on matter, but quickset
was say truly to accoutrement. Never as i laughed about it. Once
i originate. On invocation, as i make Tom do no award for me, while
Daytime and i did the depository and each veranda and music.
 Mr. Chaffanbrass, who was himself an ugly, dirty old
man, who had always piqued himself on being indifferent to appearance, found himself struck
by the beauty and grace of the man whom he now saw for the first time. And he was struck, too,
by his client's eloquence, though he had expressly declared to the attorney that it was his
duty to be superior to any such influence. "Oh, Mr. Chaffanbrass, for the love of Heaven, let
there be no quibbling."

"We never quibble, I hope, Mr. Finn."

"No subterfuges, no escaping by a side wind, no advantage taken of little forms, no objection
taken to this and that as though delay would avail us anything."

"Character will go a great way, we hope."

"It should go for nothing. Though no one would speak a word for me, still am I innocent. Of
course the truth will be known some day."

"I'm not so sure of that, Mr. Finn."

"It will certainly be known some day. That it should not be known as yet is my misfortune.
But in defending me I would have you hurl defiance at my accusers. I had the stick in my pocket,--having
heretofore been concerned with ruffians in the street. I did quarrel with the man, having been
insulted by him at the club. The coat which I wore was such as they say. But does that make
a murderer of me?"

"Somebody did the deed, and that somebody could probably say all that you say."

"No, sir;--he, when he is known, will be found to have been skulking in the streets; he will
have thrown away his weapon; he will have been secret in his movements; he will have hidden
his face, and have been a murderer in more than the deed. When they came to me in the morning
did it seem to them that I was a murderer? Has my life been like that? They who have really
known me cannot believe that I have been guilty. They who have not known me, and do believe,
will live to learn their error."

He then sat down and listened patiently while the old lawyer described to him the nature of
the case,--wherein lay his danger, and wherein what hope there was of safety. There was no
evidence against him other than circumstantial evidence, and both judges and jury were wont
to be unwilling to accept such, when uncorroborated, as sufficient in cases of life and death.
Unfortunately, in this case the circumstantial evidence was very strong against him. But, on
the other hand, his character, as to which men of great mark would speak with enthusiasm, would
be made to stand very high. "I would not have it made to stand higher than it is," said Phineas.
As to the opinion of the world afterwards, Mr. Chaffanbrass went on to say, of that he must
take his chance. But surely he himself might fight better for it living than any friend could
do for him after his death. "You must believe me in this, Mr. Finn, that a verdict of acquittal
from the jury is the one object that we must have before us."

"The one object that I shall have before me is the verdict of the public," said Phineas. "I
am treated with so much injustice in being thought a murderer that they can hardly add anything
to it by hanging me."

When Mr. Chaffanbrass left the prison he walked back with Mr. Wickerby to the attorney's chambers
in Hatton Garden, and he lingered for awhile on the Viaduct expressing his opinion of his client.
"He's not a bad fellow, Wickerby."

"A very good sort of fellow, Mr. Chaffanbrass."

"I never did,--and I never will,--express an opinion of my own as to the guilt or innocence
of a client till after the trial is over. But I have sometimes felt as though I would give
the blood out of my veins to save a man. I never felt in that way more strongly than I do now."

"It'll make me very unhappy, I know, if it goes against him," said Mr. Wickerby.

"People think that the special branch of the profession into which I have chanced to fall is
a very low one,--and I do not know whether, if the world were before me again, I would allow
myself to drift into an exclusive practice in criminal courts."

"Yours has been a very useful life, Mr. Chaffanbrass."

"But I often feel," continued the barrister, paying no attention to the attorney's last remark,
"that my work touches the heart more nearly than does that of gentlemen who have to deal with
matters of property and of high social claims. People think I am savage,--savage to witnesses."

"You can frighten a witness, Mr. Chaffanbrass."

"It's just the trick of the trade that you learn, as a girl learns the notes of her piano.
There's nothing in it. You forget it all the next hour. But when a man has been hung whom you
have striven to save, you do remember that. Good-morning, Mr. Wickerby. I'll be there a little
before ten. Perhaps you may have to speak to me."

CHAPTER LXI

The Beginning of the Trial

The task of seeing an important trial at the Old Bailey is by no means a pleasant business,
unless you be what the denizens of the Court would call "one of the swells,"--so as to enjoy
the privilege of being a benchfellow with the judge on the seat of judgment. And even in that
case the pleasure is not unalloyed. You have, indeed, the gratification of seeing the man whom
all the world has been talking about for the last nine days, face to face; and of being seen
in a position which causes you to be acknowledged as a man of mark; but the intolerable stenches
of the Court and its horrid heat come up to you there, no doubt, as powerfully as they fall
on those below. And then the tedium of a prolonged trial, in which the points of interest are
apt to be few and far between, grows upon you till you begin to feel that though the Prime
Minister who is out should murder the Prime Minister who is in, and all the members of the
two Cabinets were to be called in evidence, you would not attend the trial, though the seat
of honour next to the judge were accorded to you. Those be-wigged ones, who are the performers,
are so insufferably long in their parts, so arrogant in their bearing,--so it strikes you,
though doubtless the fashion of working has been found to be efficient for the purposes they
have in hand,--and so uninteresting in their repetition, that you first admire, and then question,
and at last execrate the imperturbable patience of the judge, who might, as you think, force
the thing through in a quarter of the time without any injury to justice. And it will probably
strike you that the length of the trial is proportioned not to the complicity but to the importance,
or rather to the public interest, of the case,--so that the trial which has been suggested
of a disappointed and bloody-minded ex-Prime Minister would certainly take at least a fortnight,
even though the Speaker of the House of Commons and the Lord Chancellor had seen the blow struck,
whereas a collier may knock his wife's brains out in the dark and be sent to the gallows with
a trial that shall not last three hours. And yet the collier has to be hung,--if found guilty,--and
no one thinks that his life is improperly endangered by reckless haste. Whether lives may not
be improperly saved by the more lengthened process is another question.

But the honours of such benchfellowship can be accorded but to few, and the task becomes very
tiresome when the spectator has to enter the Court as an ordinary mortal. There are two modes
open to him, either of which is subject to grievous penalties. If he be the possessor of a
decent coat and hat, and can scrape any acquaintance with any one concerned, he may get introduced
to that overworked and greatly perplexed official, the under-sheriff, who will stave him off
if possible,--knowing that even an under-sheriff cannot make space elastic,--but, if the introduction
has been acknowledged as good, will probably find a seat for him if he persevere to the end.
But the seat when obtained must be kept in possession from morning to evening, and the fight
must be renewed from day to day. And the benches are hard, and the space is narrow, and you
feel that the under-sheriff would prod you with his sword if you ventured to sneeze, or to
put to your lips the flask which you have in your pocket. And then, when all the benchfellows
go out to lunch at half-past one, and you are left to eat your dry sandwich without room for
your elbows, a feeling of unsatisfied ambition will pervade you. It is all very well to be
the friend of an under-sheriff, but if you could but have known the judge, or have been a cousin
of the real sheriff, how different it might have been with you!

But you may be altogether independent, and, as a matter of right, walk into an open English
court of law as one of the British public. You will have to stand of course,--and to commence
standing very early in the morning if you intend to succeed in witnessing any portion of the
performance. And when you have made once good your entrance as one of the British public, you
are apt to be a good deal knocked about, not only by your public brethren, but also by those
who have to keep the avenues free for witnesses, and who will regard you from first to last
as a disagreeable excrescence on the officialities of the work on hand. Upon the whole it may
be better for you, perhaps, to stay at home and read the record of the affair as given in the
next day's Times. Impartial reporters, judicious readers, and able editors between them will
preserve for you all the kernel, and will save you from the necessity of having to deal with
the shell.

At this trial there were among the crowd who succeeded in entering the Court three persons
of our acquaintance who had resolved to overcome the various difficulties. Mr. Monk, who had
formerly been a Cabinet Minister, was seated on the bench,--subject, indeed, to the heat and
stenches, but priviledged to eat the lunch. Mr. Quintus Slide, of The People's Banner,--who
knew the Court well, for in former days he had worked many an hour in it as a reporter,--had
obtained the good graces of the under-sheriff. And Mr. Bunce, with all the energy of the British
public, had forced his way in among the crowd, and had managed to wedge himself near to the
dock, so that he might be able by a hoist of the neck to see his lodger as he stood at the
bar. Of these three men, Bunce was assured that the prisoner was innocent,--led to such assurance
partly by belief in the man, and partly by an innate spirit of opposition to all exercise of
restrictive power. Mr. Quintus Slide was certain of the prisoner's guilt, and gave himself
considerable credit for having assisted in running down the criminal. It seemed to be natural
to Mr. Quintus Slide that a man who had openly quarrelled with the Editor of The People's Banner
should come to the gallows. Mr. Monk, as Phineas himself well knew, had doubted. He had received
the suspected murderer into his warmest friendship, and was made miserable even by his doubts.
Since the circumstances of the case had come to his knowledge, they had weighed upon his mind
so as to sadden his whole life. But he was a man who could not make his reason subordinate
to his feelings. If the evidence against his friend was strong enough to send his friend for
trial, how should he dare to discredit the evidence because the man was his friend? He had
visited Phineas in prison, and Phineas had accused him of doubting. "You need not answer me,"
the unhappy man had said, "but do not come unless you are able to tell me from your heart that
you are sure of my innocence. There is no person living who could comfort me by such assurance
as you could do." Mr. Monk had thought about it very much, but he had not repeated his visit.

At a quarter past ten the Chief Justice was on the bench, with a second judge to help him,
and with lords and distinguished commoners and great City magnates crowding the long seat between
him and the doorway; the Court was full, so that you would say that another head could not
be made to appear; and Phineas Finn, the member for Tankerville, was in the dock. Barrington
Erle, who was there to see,--as one of the great ones, of course,--told the Duchess of Omnium
that night that Phineas was thin and pale, and in many respects an altered man,--but handsomer
than ever.

"He bore himself well?" asked the Duchess.

"Very well,--very well indeed. We were there for six hours, and he maintained the same demeanour
throughout. He never spoke but once, and that was when Chaffanbrass began his fight about the
jury."

"What did he say?"

"He addressed the judge, interrupting Slope, who was arguing that some man would make a very
good juryman, and declared that it was not by his wish that any objection was raised against
any gentleman."

"What did the judge say?"

"Told him to abide by his counsel. The Chief Justice was very civil to him,--indeed better
than civil."

"We'll have him down to Matching, and make ever so much of him," said the Duchess.

"Don't go too fast, Duchess, for he may have to hang poor Phineas yet."

"Oh dear; I wish you wouldn't use that word. But what did he say?"

"He told Finn that as he had thought fit to employ counsel for his defence,--in doing which
he had undoubtedly acted wisely,--he must leave the case to the discretion of his counsel."

"And then poor Phineas was silenced?"

"He spoke another word. 'My lord,' said he, 'I for my part wish that the first twelve men on
the list might be taken.' But old Chaffanbrass went on just the same. It took them two hours
and a half before they could swear a jury."

"But, Mr. Erle,--taking it altogether,--which way is it going?"

"Nobody can even guess as yet. There was ever so much delay besides that about the jury. It
seemed that somebody had called him Phinees instead of Phineas, and that took half an hour.
They begin with the quarrel at the club, and are to call the first witness to-morrow morning.
They are to examine Ratler about the quarrel, and Fitzgibbon, and Monk, and, I believe, old
Bouncer, the man who writes, you know. They all heard what took place."

"So did you?"

"I have managed to escape that. They can't very well examine all the club. But I shall be called
afterwards as to what took place at the door. They will begin with Ratler."

"Everybody knows there was a quarrel, and that Mr. Bonteen had been drinking, and that he behaved
as badly as a man could behave."

"It must all be proved, Duchess."

"I'll tell you what, Mr. Erle. If,--if,--if this ends badly for Mr. Finn I'll wear mourning
to the day of my death. I'll go to the Drawing Room in mourning, to show what I think of it."

Lord Chiltern, who was also on the bench, took his account of the trial home to his wife and
sister in Portman Square. At this time Miss Palliser was staying with them, and the three ladies
were together when the account was brought to them. In that house it was taken as doctrine
that Phineas Finn was innocent. In the presence of her brother, and before her sister-in-law's
visitor, Lady Laura had learned to be silent on the subject, and she now contented herself
with listening, knowing that she could relieve herself by speech when alone with Lady Chiltern.
"I never knew anything so tedious in my life," said the Master of the Brake hounds. "They have
not done anything yet."

"I suppose they have made their speeches?" said his wife.

"Sir Gregory Grogram opened the case, as they call it; and a very strong case he made of it.
I never believe anything that a lawyer says when he has a wig on his head and a fee in his
hand. I prepare myself beforehand to regard it all as mere words, supplied at so much the thousand.
I know he'll say whatever he thinks most likely to forward his own views. But upon my word
he put it very strongly. He brought it all within so very short a space of time! Bonteen and
Finn left the club within a minute of each other. Bonteen must have been at the top of the
passage five minutes afterwards, and Phineas at that moment could not have been above two hundred
yards from him. There can be no doubt of that."

"Oswald, you don't mean to say that it's going against him!" exclaimed Lady Chiltern.

"It's not going any way at present. The witnesses have not been examined. But so far, I suppose,
the Attorney-General was right. He has got to prove it all, but so much no doubt he can prove.
He can prove that the man was killed with some blunt weapon, such as Finn had. And he can prove
that exactly at the same time a man was running to the spot very like to Finn, and that by
a route which would not have been his route, but by using which he could have placed himself
at that moment where the man was seen."

"How very dreadful!" said Miss Palliser.

"And yet I feel that I know it was that other man," said Lady Chiltern. Lady Laura sat silent
through it all, listening with her eyes intent on her brother's face, with her elbow on the
table and her brow on her hand. She did not speak a word till she found herself alone with
her sister-in-law, and then it was hardly more than a word. "Violet, they will murder him!"
Lady Chiltern endeavoured to comfort her, telling her that as yet they had heard but one side
of the case; but the wretched woman only shook her head. "I know they will murder him," she
said, "and then when it is too late they will find out what they have done!"

On the following day the crowd in Court was if possible greater, so that the benchfellows were
very much squeezed indeed. But it was impossible to exclude from the high seat such men as
Mr. Ratler and Lord Fawn when they were required in the Court as witnesses;--and not a man
who had obtained a seat on the first day was willing to be excluded on the second. And even
then the witnesses were not called at once. Sir Gregory Grogram began the work of the day by
saying that he had heard that morning for the first time that one of his witnesses had been,--"tampered
with" was the word that he unfortunately used,--by his learned friend on the other side. He
alluded, of course, to Lord Fawn, and poor Lord Fawn, sitting up there on the seat of honour,
visible to all the world, became very hot and very uncomfortable. Then there arose a vehement
dispute between Sir Gregory, assisted by Sir Simon, and old Mr. Chaffanbrass, who rejected
with disdain any assistance from the gentler men who were with him. "Tampered with! That word
should be recalled by the honourable gentleman who was at the head of the bar, or--or--" Had
Mr. Chaffanbrass declared that as an alternative he would pull the Court about their ears,
it would have been no more than he meant. Lord Fawn had been invited,--not summoned to attend;
and why? In order that no suspicion of guilt might be thrown on another man, unless the knowledge
that was in Lord Fawn's bosom, and there alone, would justify such a line of defence. Lord
Fawn had been attended by his own solicitor, and might have brought the Attorney-General with
him had he so pleased. There was a great deal said on both sides, and something said also by
the judge. At last Sir Gregory withdrew the objectionable word, and substituted in lieu of
it an assertion that his witness had been "indiscreetly questioned." Mr. Chaffanbrass would
not for a moment admit the indiscretion, but bounced about in his place, tearing his wig almost
off his head, and defying every one in the Court. The judge submitted to Mr. Chaffanbrass that
he had been indiscreet.--"I never contradicted the Bench yet, my lord," said Mr. Chaffanbrass,--at
which there was a general titter throughout the bar,--"but I must claim the privilege of conducting
my own practice according to my own views. In this Court I am subject to the Bench. In my own
chamber I am subject only to the law of the land." The judge looking over his spectacles said
a mild word about the profession at large. Mr. Chaffanbrass, twisting his wig quite on one
side, so that it nearly fell on Mr. Serjeant Birdbolt's face, muttered something as to having
seen more work done in that Court than any other living lawyer, let his rank be what it might.
When the little affair was over, everybody felt that Sir Gregory had been vanquished.

Mr. Ratler, and Laurence Fitzgibbon, and Mr. Monk, and Mr. Bouncer were examined about the
quarrel at the club, and proved that the quarrel had been a very bitter quarrel. They all agreed
that Mr. Bonteen had been wrong, and that the prisoner had had cause for anger. Of the three
distinguished legislators and statesmen above named Mr. Chaffanbrass refused to take the slightest
notice. "I have no question to put to you," he said to Mr. Ratler. "Of course there was a quarrel.
We all know that." But he did ask a question or two of Mr. Bouncer. "You write books, I think,
Mr. Bouncer?"

"I do," said Mr. Bouncer, with dignity. Now there was no peculiarity in a witness to which
Mr. Chaffanbrass was so much opposed as an assumption of dignity.

"What sort of books, Mr. Bouncer?"

"I write novels," said Mr. Bouncer, feeling that Mr. Chaffanbrass must have been ignorant indeed
of the polite literature of the day to make such a question necessary.

"You mean fiction."

"Well, yes; fiction,--if you like that word better."

"I don't like either, particularly. You have to find plots, haven't you?"

Mr. Bouncer paused a moment. "Yes; yes," he said. "In writing a novel it is necessary to construct
a plot."

"Where do you get 'em from?"

"Where do I get 'em from?"

"Yes,--where do you find them? You take them from the French mostly;--don't you?" Mr. Bouncer
became very red. "Isn't that the way our English writers get their plots?"

"Sometimes,--perhaps."

"Your's ain't French then?"

"Well;--no;--that is--I won't undertake to say that--that--"

"You won't undertake to say that they're not French."

"Is this relevant to the case before us, Mr. Chaffanbrass?" asked the judge.

"Quite so, my lud. We have a highly-distinguished novelist before us, my lud, who, as I have
reason to believe, is intimately acquainted with the French system of the construction of plots.
It is a business which the French carry to perfection. The plot of a novel should, I imagine,
be constructed in accordance with human nature?"

"Certainly," said Mr. Bouncer.

"You have murders in novels?"

"Sometimes," said Mr. Bouncer, who had himself done many murders in his time.

"Did you ever know a French novelist have a premeditated murder committed by a man who could
not possibly have conceived the murder ten minutes before he committed it;--with whom the cause
of the murder anteceded the murder no more than ten minutes?" Mr. Bouncer stood thinking for
a while. "We will give you your time, because an answer to the question from you will be important
testimony."

"I don't think I do," said Mr. Bouncer, who in his confusion had been quite unable to think
of the plot of a single novel.

"And if there were such a French plot that would not be the plot that you would borrow?"

"Certainly not," said Mr. Bouncer.

"Did you ever read poetry, Mr. Bouncer?"

"Oh yes;--I read a great deal of poetry."

"Shakespeare, perhaps?" Mr. Bouncer did not condescend to do more than nod his head. "There
is a murder described in Hamlet. Was that supposed by the poet to have been devised suddenly?"

"I should say not."

"So should I, Mr. Bouncer. Do you remember the arrangements for the murder in Macbeth? That
took a little time in concocting;--didn't it?"

"No doubt it did."

"And when Othello murdered Desdemona, creeping up to her in her sleep, he had been thinking
of it for some time?"

"I suppose he had."

"Do you ever read English novels as well as French, Mr. Bouncer?" The unfortunate author again
nodded his head. "When Amy Robsart was lured to her death, there was some time given to the
preparation,--eh?"

"Of course there was."

"Of course there was. And Eugene Aram, when he murdered a man in Bulwer's novel, turned the
matter over in his mind before he did it?"

"He was thinking a long time about it, I believe."

"Thinking about it a long time! I rather think he was. Those great masters of human nature,
those men who knew the human heart, did not venture to describe a secret murder as coming from
a man's brain without premeditation?"

"Not that I can remember."

"Such also is my impression. But now, I bethink me of a murder that was almost as sudden as
this is supposed to have been. Didn't a Dutch smuggler murder a Scotch lawyer, all in a moment
as it were?"

"Dirk Hatteraick did murder Glossop in The Antiquary very suddenly;--but he did it from passion."

"Just so, Mr. Bouncer. There was no plot there, was there? No arrangement; no secret creeping
up to his victim; no escape even?"

"He was chained."

"So he was; chained like a dog;--and like a dog he flew at his enemy. If I understand you,
then, Mr. Bouncer, you would not dare so to violate probability in a novel, as to produce a
murderer to the public who should contrive a secret hidden murder,--contrive it and execute
it, all within a quarter of an hour?"

Mr. Bouncer, after another minute's consideration, said that he thought he would not do so.
"Mr. Bouncer," said Mr. Chaffanbrass, "I am uncommonly obliged to our excellent friend, Sir
Gregory, for having given us the advantage of your evidence."

CHAPTER LXII

Lord Fawn's Evidence

A crowd of witnesses were heard on the second day after Mr. Chaffanbrass had done with Mr.
Bouncer, but none of them were of much interest to the public. The three doctors were examined
as to the state of the dead man's head when he was picked up, and as to the nature of the instrument
with which he had probably been killed; and the fact of Phineas Finn's life-preserver was proved,--in
the middle of which he begged that the Court would save itself some little trouble, as he was
quite ready to acknowledge that he had walked home with the short bludgeon, which was then
produced, in his pocket. "We would acknowledge a great deal if they would let us," said Mr.
Chaffanbrass. "We acknowledge the quarrel, we acknowledge the walk home at night, we acknowledge
the bludgeon, and we acknowledge a grey coat." But that happened towards the close of the second
day, and they had not then reached the grey coat. The question of the grey coat was commenced
on the third morning,--on the Saturday,--which day, as was well known, would be opened with
the examination of Lord Fawn. The anxiety to hear Lord Fawn undergo his penance was intense,
and had been greatly increased by the conviction that Mr. Chaffanbrass would resent upon him
the charge made by the Attorney-General as to tampering with a witness. "I'll tamper with him
by-and-bye," Mr. Chaffanbrass had whispered to Mr. Wickerby, and the whispered threat had been
spread abroad. On the table before Mr. Chaffanbrass, when he took his place in the Court on
the Saturday, was laid a heavy grey coat, and on the opposite side of the table, just before
the Solicitor-General, was laid another grey coat, of much lighter material. When Lord Fawn
saw the two coats as he took his seat on the bench his heart failed him.

He was hardly allowed to seat himself before he was called upon to be sworn. Sir Simon Slope,
who was to examine him, took it for granted that his lordship could give his evidence from
his place on the bench, but to this Mr. Chaffanbrass objected. He was very well aware, he said,
that such a practice was usual. He did not doubt but that in his time he had examined some
hundreds of witnesses from the bench. In nineteen cases out of twenty there could be no objection
to such a practice. But in this case the noble lord would have to give evidence not only as
to what he had seen, but as to what he then saw. It would be expedient that he should see colours
as nearly as possible in the same light as the jury, which he would do if he stood in the witness-box.
And there might arise questions of identity, in speaking of which it would be well that the
noble lord should be as near as possible to the thing or person to be identified. He was afraid
that he must trouble the noble lord to come down from the Elysium of the bench. Whereupon Lord
Fawn descended, and was sworn in at the witness-box.

His treatment from Sir Simon Slope was all that was due from a Solicitor-General to a distinguished
peer who was a member of the same Government as himself. Sir Simon put his questions so as
almost to reassure the witness and very quickly,--only too quickly,--obtained from him all
the information that was needed on the side of the prosecution. Lord Fawn, when he had left
the club, had seen both Mr. Bonteen and Mr. Finn preparing to follow him, but he had gone alone,
and had never seen Mr. Bonteen since. He walked very slowly down into Curzon Street and Bolton
Row, and when there, as he was about to cross the road at the top of Clarges Street,--as he
believed, just as he was crossing the street,--he saw a man come at a very fast pace out of
the mews which runs into Bolton Row, opposite to Clarges Street, and from thence hurry very
quickly towards the passage which separates the gardens of Devonshire and Lansdowne Houses.
It had already been proved that had Phineas Finn retraced his steps after Erle and Fitzgibbon
had turned their backs upon him, his shortest and certainly most private way to the spot on
which Lord Fawn had seen the man would have been by the mews in question. Lord Fawn went on
to say that the man wore a grey coat,--as far as he could judge it was such a coat as Sir Simon
now showed him; he could not at all identify the prisoner; he could not say whether the man
he had seen was as tall as the prisoner; he thought that as far as he could judge, there was
not much difference in the height. He had not thought of Mr. Finn when he saw the man hurrying
along, nor had he troubled his mind about the man. That was the end of Lord Fawn's evidence-in-chief,
which he would gladly have prolonged to the close of the day could he thereby have postponed
the coming horrors of his cross-examination. But there he was,--in the clutches of the odious,
dirty, little man, hating the little man, despising him because he was dirty, and nothing better
than an Old Bailey barrister,--and yet fearing him with so intense a fear!

Mr. Chaffanbrass smiled at his victim, and for a moment was quite soft with him,--as a cat
is soft with a mouse. The reporters could hardly hear his first question,--"I believe you are
an Under-Secretary of State?" Lord Fawn acknowledged the fact. Now it was the case that in
the palmy days of our hero's former career he had filled the very office which Lord Fawn now
occupied, and that Lord Fawn had at the time filled a similar position in another department.
These facts Mr. Chaffanbrass extracted from his witness,--not without an appearance of unwillingness,
which was produced, however, altogether by the natural antagonism of the victim to his persecutor;
for Mr. Chaffanbrass, even when asking the simplest questions, in the simplest words, even
when abstaining from that sarcasm of tone under which witnesses were wont to feel that they
were being flayed alive, could so look at a man as to create an antagonism which no witness
could conceal. In asking a man his name, and age, and calling, he could produce an impression
that the man was unwilling to tell anything, and that, therefore, the jury were entitled to
regard his evidence with suspicion. "Then," continued Mr. Chaffanbrass, "you must have met
him frequently in the intercourse of your business?"

"I suppose I did,--sometimes."

"Sometimes? You belonged to the same party?"

"We didn't sit in the same House."

"I know that, my lord. I know very well what House you sat in. But I suppose you would condescend
to be acquainted with even a commoner who held the very office which you hold now. You belonged
to the same club with him."

"I don't go much to the clubs," said Lord Fawn.

"But the quarrel of which we have heard so much took place at a club in your presence?" Lord
Fawn assented. "In fact you cannot but have been intimately and accurately acquainted with
the personal appearance of the gentleman who is now on his trial. Is that so?"

"I never was intimate with him."

Mr. Chaffanbrass looked up at the jury and shook his head sadly. "I am not presuming, Lord
Fawn, that you so far derogated as to be intimate with this gentleman,--as to whom, however,
I shall be able to show by and by that he was the chosen friend of the very man under whose
mastership you now serve. I ask whether his appearance is not familiar to you?" Lord Fawn at
last said that it was. "Do you know his height? What should you say was his height?" Lord Fawn
altogether refused to give an opinion on such a subject, but acknowledged that he should not
be surprised if he were told that Mr. Finn was over six feet high. "In fact you consider him
a tall man, my lord? There he is, you can look at him. Is he a tall man?" Lord Fawn did look,
but wouldn't give an answer. "I'll undertake to say, my lord, that there isn't a person in
the Court at this moment, except yourself, who wouldn't be ready to express an opinion on his
oath that Mr. Finn is a tall man. Mr. Chief Constable, just let the prisoner step out from
the dock for a moment. He won't run away. I must have his lordship's opinion as to Mr. Finn's
height." Poor Phineas, when this was said, clutched hold of the front of the dock, as though
determined that nothing but main force should make him exhibit himself to the Court in the
manner proposed.

But the need for exhibition passed away. "I know that he is a very tall man," said Lord Fawn.

"You know that he is a very tall man. We all know it. There can be no doubt about it. He is,
as you say, a very tall man,--with whose personal appearance you have long been familiar? I
ask again, my lord, whether you have not been long familiar with his personal appearance?"
After some further agonising delay Lord Fawn at last acknowledged that it had been so. "Now
we shall get on like a house on fire," said Mr. Chaffanbrass.

But still the house did not burn very quickly. A string of questions was then asked as to the
attitude of the man who had been seen coming out of the mews wearing a grey great coat,--as
to his attitude, and as to his general likeness to Phineas Finn. In answer to these Lord Fawn
would only say that he had not observed the man's attitude, and had certainly not thought of
the prisoner when he saw the man. "My lord," said Mr. Chaffanbrass, very solemnly, "look at
your late friend and colleague, and remember that his life depends probably on the accuracy
of your memory. The man you saw--murdered Mr. Bonteen. With all my experience in such matters,--which
is great; and with all my skill,--which is something, I cannot stand against that fact. It
is for me to show that that man and my client were not one and the same person, and I must
do so by means of your evidence,--by sifting what you say to-day, and by comparing it with
what you have already said on other occasions. I understand you now to say that there is nothing
in your remembrance of the man you saw, independently of the colour of the coat, to guide you
to an opinion whether that man was or was not one and the same with the prisoner?"

In all the crowd then assembled there was no man more thoroughly under the influence of conscience
as to his conduct than was Lord Fawn in reference to the evidence which he was called upon
to give. Not only would the idea of endangering the life of a human being have been horrible
to him, but the sanctity of an oath was imperative to him. He was essentially a truth-speaking
man, if only he knew how to speak the truth. He would have sacrificed much to establish the
innocence of Phineas Finn,--not for the love of Phineas, but for the love of innocence;--but
not even to do that would he have lied. But he was a bad witness, and by his slowness, and
by a certain unsustained pomposity which was natural to him, had already taught the jury to
think that he was anxious to convict the prisoner. Two men in the Court, and two only, thoroughly
understood his condition. Mr. Chaffanbrass saw it all, and intended without the slightest scruple
to take advantage of it. And the Chief Justice saw it all, and was already resolving how he
could set the witness right with the jury.

"I didn't think of Mr. Finn at the time," said Lord Fawn in answer to the last question.

"So I understand. The man didn't strike you as being tall."

"I don't think that he did."

"But yet in the evidence you gave before the magistrate in Bow Street I think you expressed
a very strong opinion that the man you saw running out of the mews was Mr. Finn?" Lord Fawn
was again silent. "I am asking your lordship a question to which I must request an answer.
Here is the Times report of the examination, with which you can refresh your memory, and you
are of course aware that it was mainly on your evidence as here reported that my client stands
there in jeopardy of his life."

"I am not aware of anything of the kind," said the witness.

"Very well. We will drop that then. But such was your evidence, whether important or not important.
Of course your lordship can take what time you please for recollection."

Lord Fawn tried very hard to recollect, but would not look at the newspaper which had been
handed to him. "I cannot remember what words I used. It seems to me that I thought it must
have been Mr. Finn because I had been told that Mr. Finn could have been there by running round."

"Surely, my lord, that would not have sufficed to induce you to give such evidence as is there
reported?"

"And the colour of the coat," said Lord Fawn.

"In fact you went by the colour of the coat, and that only?"

"Then there had been the quarrel."

"My lord, is not that begging the question? Mr. Bonteen quarrelled with Mr. Finn. "he arrive he
got in the past lecture to me." He appear diffident and surprised daughters. I importune he. Afterwards
Gib mho uncle was name me and, pull me was thus into refusing to
exertion, that he necessitate why i was refusing at draftsmanship-area.

"Worker!

He appear like legislator," i resist he.

"he'element clothe o'er in organization and he appear absolutely as significant as the o was
said of them."

"the't you caveat by he speak you knew in'Dame'?" he prosecute Great-aunt
in--.

"but it'element softly proper Woman.'Foreigner truly do," i support.

"he can'mt
till you state nobody for retainer when you understand one?" he ask
of dame and merely.

I drank to ignore how one could. So Beantown was summarize in bottle: "you are supposed to ignore he
scrambled at citizenry."

Gib'he ate mho'it could have submerge in containerful.

A call, we were at it, when i see that Great-aunt port element expression
for a better.

Then her travel down subsequently and her upper sass pull retentive.

Really she become to me ate.

"why do you reduce your food was waked like banquet?" she snarl.

Gib element protesting exclaiming did not start that her drank.

I put my weapon and folded guardianship in circle waked to their tremble.
Stir may home dip the ache, but nobody with hour that i shall then
he forget that view.

Hurriedly thus, in flicker, when i knew that the practice of it. On region, shining ag, deft domestic,
napery to rumple, rest conformity of ghetto.

On manus-- every compartment, my ma with the cherub course come, and he force society about small
less over landmass. The chafing for my adopter occupy my hub and he scrambled him knew he was by
my oculus. I have, i squeal that him, had climax of morning toward
them ate he. But that he was not one of them got he.

"i
believe i can then state you," i reply, as so as i could. "it'element was alternatively worse
unsubdivided clothes. I was many cherub, and his parent for me ate.

After that piece when she reduce down nutrient for the child. By clip was a third drank, that i
had to do my quickset. Yet, and i did it was eventually worse nevertheless put the parent. Then
dinner'clothes put he scrambled up substance for the speechless child. It'mho a wont. And i must put
so larn of his share one sting at ten day." Nowadays Bedroom Elizabeth was hush. But Black'sweetbrier,
his curse.

My himself he would not have allow some ma. But i got Tomcat for it. Ever, that i did not wake that
dark. Next period Gib'mho Kinswoman Elizabeth apologise, and for
Half was doubly straighten.

A life further we render down to Dynasty', and i think my difficulty were icily of his morning.
And into period till Tomcat come in condominium.

He had been name even to body, and we were to sweep when him in him
scrambled for England within date!

A intelligence was strike to iciness. With the thus to larn nobody in US, what on material should
i do in association? Ii.

Higher that
two period surpass nobody after hubby and denote his assignment about
we was sweep for England.

I project to resurvey to have long negotiation in him got he was
about the duty of stylish and diplomatic EU, but alas!

I think
he without an person and he feign person who forfeit the value. In he,
that he and i had then waked to a matter to.

So the case, and thus
he knew that we were to be show he at assembly! I was tickle moiety. I retrieve
he to perusal of the clothes of mho sovereign had not talk english daughters
and that gallic had been much speech. He see that the clothes bookstore
and buy what was urge as Romance, and he spend all forenoon was slept
to state he, "fifty'bigarade and his achene."

I say that no direction for half
and rumple the articulator and repeated le lanthanum until i was dizzy.
Precisely that i appear through our furniture in being of Landowner.

I know he had travel to tribunal
and "act with insect." But put the clock solon-abstractor-eulogist
give me was a plural or english and societal impost. Equally that
i turn yet interested s in England'and France and nobody in Attribute
that banquet before i was recognize i had not detect what communication was talk
at assembly, nor what one speak about he drank, nor if one speak at
all.


"Yes; I did."

"And you see him now."

"Yes, I do."

"Does he remind you of the figure of the man you saw come out of the mews?" Lord Fawn paused.
"We can't make him move about here as we did in Mr. Wickerby's room; but remembering that as
you must do, does he look like the man?"

"I don't remember what the man looked like."

"Did you not tell us in Mr. Wickerby's room that Mr. Scruby with the grey coat on was like
the figure of the man?"

Questions of this nature were prolonged for near half an hour, during which Sir Gregory made
more than one attempt to defend his witness from the weapons of their joint enemies; but Lord
Fawn at last admitted that he had acknowledged the resemblance, and did, in some faint ambiguous
fashion, acknowledge it in his present evidence.

"My lord," said Mr. Chaffanbrass as he allowed Lord Fawn to go down, "you have no doubt taken
a note of Mr. Scruby's height." Whereupon the judge nodded his head.

CHAPTER LXIII

Mr. Chaffanbrass for the Defence

The case for the prosecution was completed on the Saturday evening, Mrs. Bunce having been
examined as the last witness on that side. She was only called upon to say that her lodger
had been in the habit  of letting himself in and out of her house at all hours with a latch-key;--but
she insisted on saying more, and told the judge and the jury and the barristers that if they
thought that Mr. Finn had murdered anybody they didn't know anything about the world in general.
Whereupon Mr. Chaffanbrass said that he would like to ask her a question or two, and with consummate
flattery extracted from her her opinion of her lodger. She had known him for years, and thought
that, of all the gentlemen that ever were born, he was the least likely to do such a bloody-minded
action. Mr. Chaffanbrass was, perhaps, right in thinking that her evidence might be as serviceable
as that of the lords and countesses.

During the Sunday the trial was, as a matter of course, the talk of the town. Poor Lord Fawn
shut himself up, and was seen by no one;--but his conduct and evidence were discussed everywhere.
At the clubs it was thought that he had escaped as well as could be expected; but he himself
felt that he had been disgraced for ever. There was a very common opinion that Mr. Chaffanbrass
had admitted too much when he had declared that the man whom Lord Fawn had seen was doubtless
the murderer. To the minds of men generally it seemed to be less evident that the man so seen
should have done the deed, than that Phineas Finn should have been that man. Was it probable
that there should be two men going about in grey coats, in exactly the same vicinity, and at
exactly the same hour of the night? And then the evidence which Lord Fawn had given before
the magistrates was to the world at large at any rate as convincing as that given in the Court.
The jury would, of course, be instructed to regard only the latter; whereas the general public
would naturally be guided by the two combined. At the club it was certainly believed that the
case was going against the prisoner.

"You have read it all, of course," said the Duchess of Omnium to her husband, as she sat with
the Observer in her hand on that Sunday morning. The Sunday papers were full of the report,
and were enjoying a very extended circulation.

"I wish you would not think so much about it," said the Duke.

"That's very easily said, but how is one to help thinking about it? Of course I am thinking
about it. You know all about the coat. It belonged to the man where Mealyus was lodging."

"I will not talk about the coat, Glencora. If Mr. Finn did commit the murder it is right that
he should be convicted."

"But if he didn't?"

"It would be doubly right that he should be acquitted. But the jury will have means of arriving
at a conclusion without prejudice, which you and I cannot have; and therefore we should be
prepared to take their verdict as correct."

"If they find him guilty, their verdict will be damnable and false," said the Duchess. Whereupon
the Duke turned away in anger, and resolved that he would say nothing more about the trial,--which
resolution, however, he was compelled to break before the trial was over.

"What do you think about it, Mr. Erle?" asked the other Duke.

"I don't know what to think;--I only hope."

"That he may be acquitted?"

"Of course."

"Whether guilty or innocent?"

"Well;--yes. But if he is acquitted I shall believe him to have been innocent. Your Grace thinks--?"

"I am as unwilling to think as you are, Mr. Erle." It was thus that people spoke of it. With
the exception of some very few, all those who had known Phineas were anxious for an acquittal,
though they could not bring themselves to believe that an innocent man had been put in peril
of his life.

On the Monday morning the trial was recommenced, and the whole day was taken up by the address
which Mr. Chaffanbrass made to the jury. He began by telling them the history of the coat which
lay before them, promising to prove by evidence all the details which he stated. It was not
his intention, he said, to accuse any one of the murder. It was his business to defend the
prisoner, not to accuse others. But, as he should prove to them, two persons had been arrested
as soon as the murder had been discovered,--two persons totally unknown to each other, and
who were never for a moment supposed to have acted together,--and the suspicion of the police
had in the first instance pointed, not to his client, but to the other man. That other man
had also quarrelled with Mr. Bonteen, and that other man was now in custody on a charge of
bigamy chiefly through the instrumentality of Mr. Bonteen, who had been the friend of the victim
of the supposed bigamist. With the accusation of bigamy they would have nothing to do, but
he must ask them to take cognisance of that quarrel as well as of the quarrel at the club.
He then named that formerly popular preacher, the Rev. Mr. Emilius, and explained that he would
prove that this man, who had incurred the suspicion of the police in the first instance, had
during the night of the murder been so circumstanced as to have been able to use the coat produced.
He would prove also that Mr. Emilius was of precisely the same height as the man whom they
had seen wearing the coat. God forbid that he should bring an accusation of murder against
a man on such slight testimony. But if the evidence, as grounded on the coat, was slight against
Emilius, how could it prevail at all against his client? The two coats were as different as
chalk from cheese, the one being what would be called a gentleman's fashionable walking coat,
and the other the wrap-rascal of such a fellow as was Mr. Meager. And yet Lord Fawn, who attempted
to identify the prisoner only by his coat, could give them no opinion as to which was the coat
he had seen! But Lord Fawn, who had found himself to be debarred by his conscience from repeating
the opinion he had given before the magistrate as to the identity of Phineas Finn with the
man he had seen, did tell them that the figure of that man was similar to the figure of him
who had worn the coat on Saturday in presence of them all. This man in the street had therefore
been like Mr. Emilius, and could not in the least have resembled the prisoner. Mr. Chaffanbrass
would not tell the jury that this point bore strongly against Mr. Emilius, but he took upon
himself to assert that it was quite sufficient to snap asunder the thin thread of circumstantial
evidence by which his client was connected with the murder. A great deal more was said about
Lord Fawn, which was not complimentary to that nobleman. "His lordship is an honest, slow man,
who has doubtless meant to tell you the truth, but who does not understand the meaning of what
he himself says. When he swore before the magistrate that he thought he could identify my client
with the man in the street, he really meant that he thought that there must be identity, because
he believed from other reasons that Mr. Finn was the man in the street. Mr. Bonteen had been
murdered;--according to Lord Fawn's thinking had probably been murdered by Mr. Finn. And it
was also probable to him that Mr. Bonteen had been murdered by the man in the street. He came
thus to the conclusion that the prisoner was the man in the street. In fact, as far as the
process of identifying is concerned, his lordship's evidence is altogether in favour of the
prisoner. The figure seen by him we must suppose was the figure of a short man, and not of
one tall and commanding in his presence, as is that of the prisoner."

There were many other points on which Mr. Chaffanbrass insisted at great length;--but, chiefly,
perhaps, on the improbability, he might say impossibility, that the plot for a murder so contrived
should have entered into a man's head, have been completed and executed, all within a few minutes.
"But under no hypothesis compatible with the allegations of the prosecution can it be conceived
that the murder should have been contemplated by my client before the quarrel at the club.
No, gentlemen;--the murderer had been at his work for days. He had examined the spot and measured
the distances. He had dogged the steps of his victim on previous nights. In the shade of some
dark doorway he had watched him from his club, and had hurried by his secret path to the spot
which he had appointed for the deed. Can any man doubt that the murder has thus been committed,
let who will have been the murderer? But, if so, then my client could not have done the deed."
Much had been made of the words spoken at the club door. Was it probable,--was it possible,--that
a man intending to commit a murder should declare how easily he could do it, and display the
weapon he intended to use? The evidence given as to that part of the night's work was, he contended,
altogether in the prisoner's favour. Then he spoke of the life-preserver, and gave a rather
long account of the manner in which Phineas Finn had once taken two garotters prisoner in the
street. All this lasted till the great men on the bench trooped out to lunch. And then Mr.
Chaffanbrass, who had been speaking for nearly four hours, retired to a small room and there
drank a pint of port wine. While he was doing so, Mr. Serjeant Birdbolt spoke a word to him,
but he only shook his head and snarled. He was telling himself at the moment how quick may
be the resolves of the eager mind,--for he was convinced that the idea of attacking Mr. Bonteen
had occurred to Phineas Finn after he had displayed the life-preserver at the club door; and
he was telling himself also how impossible it is for a dull conscientious man to give accurate
evidence as to what he had himself seen,--for he was convinced that Lord Fawn had seen Phineas
Finn in the street. But to no human being had he expressed this opinion; nor would he express
it,--unless his client should be hung.

After lunch he occupied nearly three hours in giving to the jury, and of course to the whole
assembled Court, the details of about two dozen cases, in which apparently strong circumstantial
evidence had been wrong in its tendency. In some of the cases quoted, the persons tried had
been acquitted; in some, convicted and afterwards pardoned; in one pardoned after many years
of punishment;--and in one the poor victim had been hung. On this he insisted with a pathetic
eloquence which certainly would not have been expected from his appearance, and spoke with
tears in his eyes,--real unaffected tears,--of the misery of those wretched jurymen who, in
the performance of their duty, had been led into so frightful an error. Through the whole of
this long recital he seemed to feel no fatigue, and when he had done with his list of judicial
mistakes about five o'clock in the afternoon, went on to make what he called the very few remarks
necessary as to the evidence which on the next day he proposed to produce as to the prisoner's
character. He ventured to think that evidence as to the character of such a nature,--so strong,
so convincing, so complete, and so free from all objection, had never yet been given in a criminal
court. At six o'clock he completed his speech, and it was computed that the old man had been
on his legs very nearly seven hours. It was said of him afterwards that he was taken home speechless
by one of his daughters and immediately put to bed, that he roused himself about eight and
ate his dinner and drank a bottle of port in his bedroom, that he then slept,--refusing to
stir even when he was waked, till half-past nine in the morning, and that then he scrambled
into his clothes, breakfasted, and got down to the Court in half an hour. And pooh-poohed his general
mount! His proprietor concerning him pretty seemed caring. Eugh! No
one supposed he was fair "on the job"; a fit trial-cavalry, simply
"out for an airing."

When he last deprive in public he looked such screw, he was hailed with a general chorus of laughter; Young
BAL seemed abashed at the new yahboo! One wouldn't have backed him, first off, for a bob. What
the doose is he after? I'm bound to admit the Horse looks barely mere, and the boy sits him good,
and as though he meant seek.
 Then came
his countryman Laurence Fitzgibbon, and Barrington Erle, and others of his own party who had
been intimate with him. And men, too, from the opposite side of the House were brought up,
Sir Orlando Drought among the number, all of whom said that they had known the prisoner well,
and from their knowledge would have considered it impossible that he should have become a murderer.
The two last called were Lord Cantrip and Mr. Monk, one of whom was, and the other had been,
a Cabinet Minister. But before them came Lady Cantrip,--and Lady Chiltern, whom we once knew
as Violet Effingham, whom this very prisoner had in early days fondly hoped to make his wife,
who was still young and beautiful, and who had never before entered a public Court.

There had of course been much question as to the witnesses to be selected. The Duchess of Omnium
had been anxious to be one, but the Duke had forbidden it, telling his wife that she really
did not know the man, and that she was carried away by a foolish enthusiasm. Lady Cantrip when
asked had at once consented. She had known Phineas Finn when he had served under her husband,
and had liked him much. Then what other woman's tongue should be brought to speak of the man's
softness and tender bearing! It was out of the question that Lady Laura Kennedy should appear.
She did not even propose it when her brother with unnecessary sternness told her it could not
be so. Then his wife looked at him. "You shall go," said Lord Chiltern, "if you feel equal
to it. It seems to be nonsense, but they say that it is important."

"I will go," said Violet, with her eyes full of tears. Afterwards when her sister-in-law besought
her to be generous in her testimony, she only smiled as she assented. Could generosity go beyond
hers?

Lord Chiltern preceded his wife. "I have," he said, "known Mr. Finn well, and have loved him
dearly. I have eaten with him and drank with him, have ridden with him, have lived with him,
and have quarrelled with him; and I know him as I do my own right hand." Then he stretched
forth his arm with the palm extended. 

He did, even a very positive, laughing way-- such set of lies that I marveled and began to wonder
how much man of Tom was acting and how much was real.

After a while he added: "just the same, i'll have to lie out of much
hole." It will save both of us. "


Then came his wife, and it certainly was a pretty sight to see as her husband led her up to
the box and stood close beside her as she gave her evidence. There were many there who knew
much of the history of her life,--who knew that passage in it of her early love,--for the tale
had of course been told when it was whispered about that Lady Chiltern was to be examined as
a witness. Every ear was at first strained to hear her words;--but they were audible in every
corner of the Court without any effort. It need hardly be said that she was treated with the
greatest deference on every side. She answered the questions very quietly, but apparently without
nervousness. "Yes; she had known Mr. Finn long, and intimately, and had very greatly valued
his friendship. She did so still,--as much as ever. Yes; she had known him for some years,
and in circumstances which she thought justified her in saying that she understood his character.
She regarded him as a man who was brave and tender-hearted, soft in feeling and manly in disposition.
To her it was quite incredible that he should have committed a crime such as this. She knew
him to be a man prone to forgive offences, and of a sweet nature." And it was pretty too to
watch the unwonted gentleness of old Chaffanbrass as he asked the questions, and carefully
abstained from putting any one that could pain her. Sir Gregory said that he had heard her
evidence with great pleasure, but that he had no question to ask her himself. Then she stepped
down, again took her husband's arm, and left the Court amidst a hum of almost affectionate
greeting.

And what must he have thought as he stood there within the dock, looking at her and listening
to her? There had been months in his life when he had almost trusted that he would succeed
in winning that fair, highly-born, and wealthy woman for his wife; and though he had failed,
and now knew that he had never really touched her heart, that she had always loved the man
whom,--though she had rejected him time after time because of the dangers of his ways,--she
had at last married, yet it must have been pleasant to him, even in his peril, to hear from
her own lips how well she had esteemed him. She left the Court with her veil down, and he could
not catch her eye; but Lord Chiltern nodded to him in his old pleasant familiar way, as though
to bid him take courage, and to tell him that all things would even yet be well with him.

The evidence given by Lady Cantrip and her husband and by Mr. Monk was equally favourable.
She had always regarded him as a perfect gentleman. Lord Cantrip had found him to be devoted
to the service of the country,--modest, intelligent, and high-spirited. Perhaps the few words
which fell from Mr. Monk were as strong as any that were spoken. "He is a man whom I have delighted
to call my friend, and I have been happy to think that his services have been at the disposal
of his country."

Sir Gregory Grogram replied. It seemed to him that the evidence was as he had left it. It would
be for the jury to decide, under such directions as his lordship might be pleased to give them,
how far that evidence brought the guilt home to the prisoner. He would use no rhetoric in pushing
the case against the prisoner; but he must submit to them that his learned friend had not shown
that acquaintance with human nature which the gentleman undoubtedly possessed in arguing that
there had lacked time for the conception and execution of the crime. Then, at considerable
length, he strove to show that Mr. Chaffanbrass had been unjustly severe upon Lord Fawn.

It was late in the afternoon when Sir Gregory had finished his speech, and the judge's charge
was reserved for a sixth day.

CHAPTER LXIV

Confusion in the Court

On the following morning it was observed that before the judges took their seats Mr. Chaffanbrass
entered the Court with a manner much more brisk than was expected from him now that his own
work was done. She told him i had just said that Case had a mold for rosy men. Mr. Gladstone, kindly,
could indulge in talk. Irving was interesting and striking, though certainly not handsome; but
he took of the compliment to himself, smiled, submit his thanks,
and said: "and America for ugly women."

"you should have seen her handsome cheeks before she went to the
Continent," he said, and stretched too that i looked very tired and
should go down to my Hawarden Castle and rest.

 Mr. Chaffanbrass
was on his feet before the Chief Justice had taken his seat, but the judge was the first to
speak. It was observed that he held a scrap of paper in his hand, and that the barrister held
a similar scrap. Then every man in the Court knew that some message had come suddenly by the
wires. "I am informed, Mr. Chaffanbrass, that you wish to address the Court before I begin
my charge."

"Yes, my lud; and I am afraid, my lud, that I shall have to ask your ludship to delay your
charge for some days, and to subject the jury to the very great inconvenience of prolonged
incarceration for another week;--either to do that or to call upon the jury to acquit the prisoner.
I venture to assert, on my own peril, that no jury can convict the prisoner after hearing me
read that which I hold in my hand." Then Mr. Chaffanbrass paused, as though expecting that
the judge would speak;--but the judge said not a word, but sat looking at the old barrister
over his spectacles.

Every eye was turned upon Phineas Finn, who up to this moment had heard nothing of these new
tidings,--who did not in the least know on what was grounded the singularly confident,--almost
insolently confident assertion which Mr. Chaffanbrass had made in his favour. On him the effect
was altogether distressing. He had borne the trying week with singular fortitude, having stood
there in the place of shame hour after hour, and day after day, expecting his doom. It had
been to him as a lifetime of torture. He had become almost numb from the weariness of his position
and the agonising strain upon his mind. The gaoler had offered him a seat from day to day,
but he had always refused it, preferring to lean upon the rail and gaze upon the Court. He
had almost ceased to hope for anything except the end of it. He had lost count of the days,
and had begun to feel that the trial was an eternity of torture in itself. At nights he could
not sleep, but during the Sunday, after Mass, he had slept all day. Then it had begun again,
and when the Tuesday came he hardly knew how long it had been since that vacant Sunday. And
now he heard the advocate declare, without knowing on what ground the declaration was grounded,
that the trial must be postponed, or that the jury must be instructed to acquit him.

"This telegram has reached us only this morning," continued Mr. Chaffanbrass. "'Mealyus had
a house door-key made in Prague. We have the mould in our possession, and will bring the man
who made the key to England.' Now, my lud, the case in the hands of the police, as against
this man Mealyus, or Emilius, as he has chosen to call himself, broke down altogether on the
presumption that he could not have let himself in and out of the house in which he had put
himself to bed on the night of the murder. I try to your break the ice at speak of the traditions
of her city. She knew only Cannot's social register. Just to the play for tat, twice by the I quoted
from "Julius Caesar"-- and scored! She was bored. We assert that your ludship cannot allow the case
to go to the jury without taking cognisance of this telegram; and we go further, and say that
those twelve men, as twelve human beings with hearts in their bosoms and ordinary intelligence
at their command, cannot ignore the message, even should your ludship insist upon their doing
so with all the energy at your disposal."

Then there was a scene in Court, and it appeared that no less than four messages had been received
from Prague, all to the same effect. One had been addressed by Madame Goesler to her friend
the Duchess,--and that message had caused the Duke's appearance on the scene. He had brought
his telegram direct to the Old Bailey, and the Chief Justice now held it in his hand. The lawyer's
clerk who had accompanied Madame Goesler had telegraphed to the Governor of the gaol, to Mr.
Wickerby, and to the Attorney-General. Sir Gregory, rising with the telegram in his hand, stated
that he had received the same information. "I do not see," said he, "that it at all alters
the evidence as against the prisoner."

"Let your evidence go to the jury, then," said Mr. Chaffanbrass, "with such observations as
his lordship may choose to make on the telegram. I shall be contented. You have already got
your other man in prison on a charge of bigamy."

"I could not take notice of the message in charging the jury, Mr. Chaffanbrass," said the judge.
"It has come, as far as we know, from the energy of a warm friend,--from that hearty friendship
with which it seemed yesterday that this gentleman, the prisoner at the bar, has inspired so
many men and women of high character. But it proves nothing. It is an assertion. And where
should we all be, Mr. Chaffanbrass, if it should appear hereafter that the assertion is fictitious,--prepared
purposely to aid the escape of a criminal?"

"I defy you to ignore it, my lord."

"I can only suggest, Mr. Chaffanbrass," continued the judge, "that you should obtain the consent
of the gentlemen on the other side to a postponement of my charge."

