It was in vain that the Archbishop endeavoured to dazzle the Abbess with the future honours
to be won by the Constable in the Holy Land; the splendour of which would attach not to his
lady alone, but to all in the remotest degree allied to or connected with her. All his eloquence
was to no purpose, though upon so favourite a topic he exerted it to the utmost. The Abbess,
it is true, remained silent for a moment after his arguments had been exhausted, but it was
only to consider how she should intimate in a suitable and reverent manner, that children,
the usual attendants of a happy union, and the existence of which she looked to for the continuation
of the house of her father and brother, could not be hoped for with any probability, unless
the precontract was followed by marriage, and the residence of the married parties in the same
country. She therefore insisted, that the Constable having altered his intentions in this most
important particular, the fiancailles should be entirely abrogated and set aside; and she demanded
of the Primate, as an act of justice, that, as he had interfered to prevent the bridegroom's
execution of his original purpose, he should now assist with his influence wholly to dissolve
an engagement which had been thus materially innovated upon.

The Primate, who was sensible he had himself occasioned De Lacy's breach of contract, felt
himself bound in honour and reputation to prevent consequences so disagreeable to his friend,
as the dissolution of an engagement in which his interest and inclinations were alike concerned.
He reproved the Lady Abbess for the carnal and secular views which she, a dignitary of the
church, entertained upon the subject of matrimony, and concerning the interest of her house.
He even upbraided her with selfishly preferring the continuation of the line of Berenger to
the recovery of the Holy Sepulchre, and denounced to her that Heaven would be avenged of the
shortsighted and merely human policy, which postponed the interests of Christendom to those
of an individual family.

After this severe homily, the Prelate took his departure, leaving the Abbess highly incensed,
though she prudently forbore returning any irreverent answer to his paternal admonition.

In this humour the venerable lady was found by the Constable himself, when with some embarrassment,
he proceeded to explain to her the necessity of his present departure for Palestine.

She received the communication with sullen dignity; her ample black robe and scapular seeming,
as it were, to swell out in yet prouder folds as she listened to the reasons and the emergencies
which compelled the Constable of Chester to defer the marriage which he avowed was the dearest
wish of his heart, until after his return from the Crusade, for which he was about to set forth.

"Methinks," replied the Abbess, with much coldness, "if this communication is meant for earnest,--and
it were no fit business-- I myself no fit person,--for jesting with--methinks the Constable's
resolution should have been proclaimed to us yesterday before the fiancailles had united his
troth with that of Eveline Berenger, under expectations very different from those which he
now announces."

"On the word of a knight and a gentleman, reverend lady," said the Constable, "I had not then
the slightest thought that I should be called upon to take a step no less distressing to me,
than, as I see with pain, it is unpleasing to you."

"I can scarcely conceive," replied the Abbess, "the cogent reasons, which, existing as they
must have done yesterday, have nevertheless delayed their operation until to-day."

"I own," said De Lacy, reluctantly, "that I entertained too ready hopes of obtaining a remission
from my vow, which my Lord of Canterbury hath, in his zeal for Heaven's service, deemed it
necessary to refuse me."

"At least, then," said the Abbess, veiling her resentment under the appearance of extreme coldness,
"your lordship will do us the justice to place us in the same situation in which we stood yesterday
morning; and, by joining with my niece and her friends in desiring the abrogation of a marriage
contract, entered into with very different views from those which you now entertain, put a
young person in that state of liberty of which she is at present deprived by her contract with
you."

"Ah, madam!" said the Constable, "what do you ask of me? and in a tone how cold and indifferent
do you demand me to resign hopes, the dearest which my bosom ever entertained since the life-blood
warmed it!"

"I am unacquainted with language belonging to such feelings, my lord," replied the Abbess;
"but methinks the prospects which could be so easily adjourned for years, might, by a little,
and a very little, farther self-control, be altogether abandoned."

Hugo de Lacy paced the room in agitation, nor did he answer until after a considerable pause.
"If your niece, madam, shares the sentiments which you have expressed, I could not, indeed,
with justice to her, or perhaps to myself, desire to retain that interest in her, which our
solemn espousals have given me. But I must know my doom from her own lips; and if it is as
severe as that which your expressions lead me to fear, I will go to Palestine the better soldier
of Heaven, that I shall have little left on earth that can interest me."

The Abbess, without farther answer, called on her Praecentrix, and desired her to command her
niece's attendance immediately. The Praecentrix bowed reverently, and withdrew.

"May I presume to inquire," said De Lacy, "whether the Lady Eveline hath been possessed of
the circumstances which have occasioned this unhappy alteration in my purpose?"

"I have communicated the whole to her from point to point," said the Abbess, "even as it was
explained to me this morning by my Lord of Canterbury, (for with him I have already spoken
upon the subject,) and confirmed but now by your lordship's own mouth." 

What did Walter do now?

Yes,
the reddish Walter who alone could manage four, threw his sound far away, took to his heels and
ran, and ran as fast as he could back to my the mill. Yes, brown enough,
just then a shaggy, sure-brave wolf's head looked out from under
the kiln!

"That," said the Abbess, "is but an item of the account betwixt you and the Prelate,--it concerns
not us."

"Dare I venture to hope," continued De Lacy, without taking offence at the dryness of the Abbess's
manner, "that Lady Eveline has heard this most unhappy change of circumstances without emotion,--I
would say, without displeasure?"

"She is the daughter of a Berenger, my lord," answered the Abbess, "and it is our custom to
punish a breach of faith or to contemn it--never to grieve over it. What my niece may do in
this case, I know not. I am a woman of religion, sequestered from the world, and would advise
peace and Christian forgiveness, with a proper sense of contempt for the unworthy treatment
which she has received. She has followers and vassals, and friends, doubtless, and advisers,
who may not, in blinded zeal for worldly honour, recommend to her to sit down slightly with
this injury, but desire she should rather appeal to the King, or to the arms of her father's
followers, unless her liberty is restored to her by the surrender of the contract into which
she has been enticed.--But she comes, to answer for herself."

