6. Catherine's Policy.--Catherine made use of the suspension of arms to try to detach the Huguenot
leaders, by entangling them in the pleasures of the court and lowering their sense of duty.
The court was studiously brilliant. Catherine surrounded herself with a bevy of ladies, called
the Queen-Mother's Squadron, whose amusements were found for the whole day. The ladies sat
at their tapestry frames, while Italian poetry and romance was read or love-songs sung by the
gentlemen; they had garden games and hunting-parties, with every opening for the ladies to
act as sirens to any whom the queen wished to detach from the principles of honour and virtue,
and bind to her service. Balls, pageants, and theatricals followed in the evening, and there
was hardly a prince or noble in France who was not carried away by these seductions into darker
habits of profligacy. Jeanne of Navarre dreaded them for her son Henry, whom she kept as long
as possible under training in religion, learning, and hardy habits, in the mountains of Béarn;
and when Catherine tried to draw him to court by proposing a marriage between him and her youngest
daughter Margaret, Jeanne left him at home, and went herself to court. Catherine tried in vain
to bend her will or discover her secrets, and her death, early in 1572, while still at court,
was attributed to the queen-mother.

7. Massacre of St. Bartholomew (1572).--Jeanne's son Henry was immediately summoned to conclude
the marriage, and came attended by all the most distinguished Huguenots, though the more wary
of them remained at home, and the Baron of Rosny said, "If that wedding takes place the favours
will be crimson." The Duke of Guise seems to have resolved on taking this opportunity of revenging
himself for his father's murder, but the queen-mother was undecided until she found that her
son Charles, who had been bidden to cajole and talk over the Huguenot chiefs, had been attracted
by their honesty and uprightness, and was ready to throw himself into their hands, and escape
from hers. An abortive attempt on Guise's part to murder the Admiral Coligny led to all the
Huguenots going about armed, and making demonstrations which alarmed both the queen and the
people of Paris. Guise and the Duke of Anjou were, therefore, allowed to work their will, and
to rouse the bloodthirstiness of the Paris mob. At midnight of the 24th of August, 1572, St.
Bartholomew's night, the bell of the church of St. Germain l'Auxerrois began to ring, and the
slaughter was begun by men distinguished by a white sleeve. The king sheltered his Huguenot
surgeon and nurse in his room. The young King of Navarre and Prince of Condé were threatened
into conforming to the Church, but every other Huguenot who could be found was massacred, from
Coligny, who was slain kneeling in his bedroom by the followers of Guise, down to the poorest
and youngest, and the streets resounded with the cry, "Kill! kill!" In every city where royal
troops and Guisard partisans had been living among Huguenots, the same hideous work took place
for three days, sparing neither age nor sex. How many thousands died, it is impossible to reckon,
but the work was so wholesale that none were left except those in the southern cities, where
the Huguenots had been too strong to be attacked, and in those castles where the seigneur was
of "the religion." The Catholic party thought the destruction complete, the court went in state
to return thanks for deliverance from a supposed plot, while Coligny's body was hung on a gibbet.
The Pope ordered public thanksgivings, while Queen Elizabeth put on mourning, and the Emperor
Maximilian II., alone among Catholic princes, showed any horror or indignation. But the heart
of the unhappy young king was broken by the guilt he had incurred. Charles IX. sank into a
decline, and died in 1574, finding no comfort save in the surgeon and nurse he had saved.

8. The League.--His brother, Henry III., who had been elected King of Poland, threw up that
crown in favour of that of France. He was of a vain, false, weak character, superstitiously
devout, and at the same time ferocious, so as to alienate every one. All were ashamed of a
man who dressed in the extreme of foppery, with a rosary of death's heads at his girdle, and
passed from wild dissipation to abject penance. He was called "the Paris Church-warden and
the Queen's Hairdresser," for he passed from her toilette to the decoration of the walls of
churches with illuminations cut out of old service-books. Sometimes he went about surrounded
with little dogs, sometimes flogged himself walking barefoot in a procession, and his mignons,
or favourites, were the scandal of the country by their pride, license, and savage deeds. The
war broke out again, and his only remaining brother, Francis, Duke of Alençon, an equally hateful
and contemptible being, fled from court to the Huguenot army, hoping to force his brother into
buying his submission; but when the King of Navarre had followed him and begun the struggle
in earnest, he accepted the duchy of Anjou, and returned to his allegiance. Francis was invited
by the insurgent Dutch to become their chief, and spent some time in Holland, but returned,
unsuccessful and dying. As the king was childless, the next male heir was Henry of Bourbon,
King of Navarre, who had fled from court soon after Alençon returned to the Huguenot faith,
and was reigning in his two counties of Béarn and Foix, the head of the Huguenots. In the resolve
never to permit a heretic to wear the French crown, Guise and his party formed a Catholic league,
to force Henry III. to choose another successor. Paris was devoted to Guise, and the king,
finding himself almost a prisoner there, left the city, but was again mastered by the duke
at Blois, and could so ill brook his arrogance, as to have recourse to assassination. He caused
him to be slain at the palace at Blois in 1588. The fury of the League was so great that Henry
III. was driven to take refuge with the King of Navarre, and they were together besieging Paris,
when Henry III. was in his turn murdered by a monk, named Clement, in 1589.

9. Henry IV.--The Leaguers proclaimed as king an old uncle of the King of Navarre, the Cardinal
of Bourbon, but all the more moderate Catholics rallied round Henry of Navarre, who took the
title of Henry IV. At Ivry, in Normandy, Henry met the force of Leaguers, and defeated them
by his brilliant courage. "Follow my white plume," his last order to his troops, became one
of the sayings the French love to remember. But his cause was still not won--Paris held out
against him, animated by almost fanatical fury, and while he was besieging it France was invaded
from the Netherlands. The old Cardinal of Bourbon was now dead, and Philip II. considered his
daughter Isabel, whose mother was the eldest daughter of Henry II., to be rightful Queen of
France. He sent therefore his ablest general, the Duke of Parma, to co-operate with the Leaguers
and place her on the throne. A war of strategy was carried on, during which Henry kept the
enemy at bay, but could do no more, since the larger number of his people, though intending
to have no king but himself, did not wish him to gain too easy a victory, lest in that case
he should remain a Calvinist. However, he was only waiting to recant till he could do so with
a good grace. He really preferred Catholicism, and had only been a political Huguenot; and
his best and most faithful adviser, the Baron of Rosny, better known as Duke of Sully, though
a staunch Calvinist himself, recommended the change as the only means of restoring peace to
the kingdom. There was little more resistance to Henry after he had again been received by
the Church in 1592. Paris, weary of the long war, opened its gates in 1593, and the inhabitants
crowded round him with ecstasy, so that he said, "Poor people, they are hungry for the sight
of a king!" The Leaguers made their peace, and when Philip of Spain again attacked Henry, the
young Duke of Guise was one of the first to hasten to the defence. Philip saw that there were
no further hopes for his daughter, and peace was made in 1596.

10. The Edict of Nantes.--Two years later, in 1598, Henry put forth what was called the Edict
of Nantes, because first registered in that parliament. It secured to the Huguenots equal civil
rights with those of the Catholics, accepted their marriages, gave them, under restrictions,
permission to meet for worship and for consultations, and granted them cities for the security
of their rights, of which La Rochelle was the chief. The Calvinists had been nearly exterminated
in the north, but there were still a large number in the south of France, and the burghers
of the chief southern cities were mostly Huguenot. The war had been from the first a very horrible
one; there had been savage slaughter, and still more savage reprisals on each side. The young
nobles had been trained into making a fashion of ferocity, and practising graceful ways of
striking death-blows. Whole districts had been laid waste, churches and abbeys destroyed, tombs
rifled, and the whole population accustomed to every sort of horror and suffering; while nobody
but Henry IV. himself, and the Duke of Sully, had any notion either of statesmanship or of
religious toleration.

11. Henry's Plans.--Just as the reign of Louis XI. had been a period of rest and recovery from
the English wars, so that of Henry IV. was one of restoration from the ravages of thirty years
of intermittent civil war. The king himself not only had bright and engaging manners, but was
a man of large heart and mind; and Sully did much for the welfare of the country. Roads, canals,
bridges, postal communications, manufactures, extended commerce, all owed their promotion to
him, and brought prosperity to the burgher class; and the king was especially endeared to the
peasantry by his saying that he hoped for the time when no cottage would be without a good
fowl in its pot. The great silk manufactories of southern France chiefly arose under his encouragement,
and there was prosperity of every kind. The Church itself was in a far better state than before.
Some of the best men of any time were then living--in especial Vincent de Paul, who did much
to improve the training of the parochial clergy, and who founded the order of Sisters of Charity,
who prevented the misery of the streets of Paris from ever being so frightful as in those days
when deserted children became the prey of wolves, dogs, and pigs. The nobles, who had grown
into insolence during the wars, either as favourites of Henry III. or as zealous supporters
of the Huguenot cause, were subdued and tamed. The most noted of these were the Duke of Bouillon,
the owner of the small principality of Sedan, who was reduced to obedience by the sight of
Sully's formidable train of artillery; and the Marshal Duke of Biron, who, thinking that Henry
had not sufficiently rewarded his services, intrigued with Spain and Savoy, and was beheaded
for his treason. Hatred to the house of Austria in Spain and Germany was as keen as ever in
France; and in 1610 Henry IV. was prepared for another war on the plea of a disputed succession
to the duchy of Cleves. The old fanaticism still lingered in Paris, and Henry had been advised
to beware of pageants there; but it was necessary that his second wife, Mary de' Medici, should
be crowned before he went to the war, as she was to be left regent. Two days after the coronation,
as Henry was going to the arsenal to visit his old friend Sully, he was stabbed to the heart
in his coach, in the streets of Paris, by a fanatic named Ravaillac. The French call him Le
Grand Monarque; and he was one of the most attractive and benevolent of men, winning the hearts
of all who approached him, but the immorality of his life did much to confirm the already low
standard that prevailed among princes and nobles in France.

12. The States-General of 1614.--Henry's second wife, Mary de' Medici, became regent, for her
son, Louis XIII., was only ten years old, and indeed his character was so weak that his whole
reign was only one long minority. Mary de' Medici was entirely under the dominion of an Italian
favourite named Concini, and his wife, and their whole endeavour was to amass riches for themselves
and keep the young king in helpless ignorance, while they undid all that Sully had effected,
and took bribes shamelessly. The Prince of Condé tried to overthrow them, and, in hopes of
strengthening herself, in 1614 Mary summoned together the States-General. There came 464 members,
132 for the nobles, 140 for the clergy, and 192 for the third estate, i.e. the burghers, and
these, being mostly lawyers and magistrates from the provinces, were resolved to make their
voices heard. Taxation was growing worse and worse. Not only was it confined to the burgher
and peasant class, exempting the clergy and the nobles, among which last were included their
families to the remotest generation, but it had become the court custom to multiply offices,
in order to pension the nobles, and keep them quiet; and this, together with the expenses of
the army, made the weight of taxation ruinous. Moreover, the presentation to the civil offices
held by lawyers was made hereditary in their families, on payment of a sum down, and of fees
at the death of each holder. All these abuses were complained of; and one of the deputies even
told the nobility that if they did not learn to treat the despised classes below them as younger
brothers, they would lay up a terrible store of retribution for themselves. A petition to the
king was drawn up, and was received, but never answered. The doors of the house of assembly
were closed--the members were told it was by order of the king--and the States-General never
met again for 177 years, when the storm was just ready to fall.

