"But Admiral, in saying that this was the first stone thrown, and that this precipitated the
war, you have overlooked a circumstance which you are perfectly familiar with, but which has
escaped your memory.  Now I grant you that what you have stated is correct in every detail--to
wit: that on the 16th of October, 1860, two Massachusetts clergymen, named Waite and Granger,
went in disguise to the house of John Moody, in Rockport, at dead of night, and dragged forth
two southern women and their two little children, and after tarring and feathering them conveyed
them to Boston and burned them alive in the State House square; and I also grant your proposition
that this deed is what led to the secession of South Carolina on the 20th of December following.
Very well."  [Here the company were pleasantly surprised to hear Williams proceed to come back
at the Admiral with his own invincible weapon--clean, pure, manufactured history, without a
word of truth in it.]  "Very well, I say. But Admiral, why overlook the Willis and Morgan case
in South Carolina? You are too well informed a man not to know all about that circumstance.
Your arguments and your conversations have shown you to be intimately conversant with every
detail of this national quarrel.  You develop matters of history every day that show plainly
that you are no smatterer in it, content to nibble about the surface, but a man who has searched
the depths and possessed yourself of everything that has a bearing upon the great question.
Therefore, let me just recall to your mind that Willis and Morgan case--though I see by your
face that the whole thing is already passing through your memory at this moment.  On the 12th
of August, 1860, two months before the Waite and Granger affair, two South Carolina clergymen,
named John H. Morgan and Winthrop L.  Willis, one a Methodist and the other an Old School Baptist,
disguised themselves, and went at midnight to the house of a planter named Thompson--Archibald
F. Thompson, Vice President under Thomas Jefferson,--and took thence, at midnight, his widowed
aunt, (a Northern woman,) and her adopted child, an orphan--named Mortimer Highie, afflicted
with epilepsy and suffering at the time from white swelling on one of his legs, and compelled
to walk on crutches in consequence; and the two ministers, in spite of the pleadings of the
victims, dragged them to the bush, tarred and feathered them, and afterward burned them at
the stake in the city of Charleston.  You remember perfectly well what a stir it made; you
remember perfectly well that even the Charleston Courier stigmatized the act as being unpleasant,
of questionable propriety, and scarcely justifiable, and likewise that it would not be matter
of surprise if retaliation ensued.  And you remember also, that this thing was the cause of
the Massachusetts outrage.  Who, indeed, were the two Massachusetts ministers?  and who were
the two Southern women they burned?  I do not need to remind you, Admiral, with your intimate
knowledge of history, that Waite was the nephew of the woman burned in Charleston; that Granger
was her cousin in the second degree, and that the woman they burned in Boston was the wife
of John H. Morgan, and the still loved but divorced wife of Winthrop L. Willis. Now, Admiral,
it is only fair that you should acknowledge that the first provocation came from the Southern
preachers and that the Northern ones were justified in retaliating.  In your arguments you
never yet have shown the least disposition to withhold a just verdict or be in anywise unfair,
when authoritative history condemned your position, and therefore I have no hesitation in asking
you to take the original blame from the Massachusetts ministers, in this matter, and transfer
it to the South Carolina clergymen where it justly belongs."

The Admiral was conquered.  This sweet spoken creature who swallowed his fraudulent history
as if it were the bread of life; basked in his furious blasphemy as if it were generous sunshine;
found only calm, even-handed justice in his rampart partisanship; and flooded him with invented
history so sugarcoated with flattery and deference that there was no rejecting it, was "too
many" for him.  He stammered some awkward, profane sentences about the-----Willis and Morgan
business having escaped his memory, but that he "remembered it now," and then, under pretence
of giving Fan some medicine for an imaginary cough, drew out of the battle and went away, a
vanquished man.  Then cheers and laughter went up, and Williams, the ship's benefactor was
a hero.  The news went about the vessel, champagne was ordered, and enthusiastic reception
instituted in the smoking room, and everybody flocked thither to shake hands with the conqueror.
The wheelman said afterward, that the Admiral stood up behind the pilot house and "ripped and
cursed all to himself" till he loosened the smokestack guys and becalmed the mainsail.

The Admiral's power was broken.  After that, if he began argument, somebody would bring Williams,
and the old man would grow weak and begin to quiet down at once.  And as soon as he was done,
Williams in his dulcet, insinuating way, would invent some history (referring for proof, to
the old man's own excellent memory and to copies of "The Old Guard" known not to be in his
possession) that would turn the tables completely and leave the Admiral all abroad and helpless.
By and by he came to so dread Williams and his gilded tongue that he would stop talking when
he saw him approach, and finally ceased to mention politics altogether, and from that time
forward there was entire peace and serenity in the ship.

CHAPTER LXIII.

On a certain bright morning the Islands hove in sight, lying low on the lonely sea, and everybody
climbed to the upper deck to look.  After two thousand miles of watery solitude the vision
was a welcome one.  As we approached, the imposing promontory of Diamond Head rose up out of
the ocean its rugged front softened by the hazy distance, and presently the details of the
land began to make themselves manifest: first the line of beach; then the plumed coacoanut
trees of the tropics; then cabins of the natives; then the white town of Honolulu, said to
contain between twelve and fifteen thousand inhabitants spread over a dead level; with streets
from twenty to thirty feet wide, solid and level as a floor, most of them straight as a line
and few as crooked as a corkscrew.

The further I traveled through the town the better I liked it. Every step revealed a new contrast--disclosed
something I was unaccustomed to. In place of the grand mud-colored brown fronts of San Francisco,
I saw dwellings built of straw, adobies, and cream-colored pebble-and-shell-conglomerated coral,
cut into oblong blocks and laid in cement; also a great number of neat white cottages, with
green window-shutters; in place of front yards like billiard-tables with iron fences around
them, I saw these homes surrounded by ample yards, thickly clad with green grass, and shaded
by tall trees, through whose dense foliage the sun could scarcely penetrate; in place of the
customary geranium, calla lily, etc., languishing in dust and general debility, I saw luxurious
banks and thickets of flowers, fresh as a meadow after a rain, and glowing with the richest
dyes; in place of the dingy horrors of San Francisco's pleasure grove, the "Willows," I saw
huge-bodied, wide-spreading forest trees, with strange names and stranger appearance --trees
that cast a shadow like a thunder-cloud, and were able to stand alone without being tied to
green poles; in place of gold fish, wiggling around in glass globes, assuming countless shades
and degrees of distortion through the magnifying and diminishing qualities of their transparent
prison houses, I saw cats--Tom-cats, Mary Ann cats, long-tailed cats, bob-tailed cats, blind
cats, one-eyed cats, wall-eyed cats, cross-eyed cats, gray cats, black cats, white cats, yellow
cats, striped cats, spotted cats, tame cats, wild cats, singed cats, individual cats, groups
of cats, platoons of cats, companies of cats, regiments of cats, armies of cats, multitudes
of cats, millions of cats, and all of them sleek, fat, lazy and sound asleep. I looked on a
multitude of people, some white, in white coats, vests, pantaloons, even white cloth shoes,
made snowy with chalk duly laid on every morning; but the majority of the people were almost
as dark as negroes--women with comely features, fine black eyes, rounded forms, inclining to
the voluptuous, clad in a single bright red or white garment that fell free and unconfined
from shoulder to heel, long black hair falling loose, gypsy hats, encircled with wreaths of
natural flowers of a brilliant carmine tint; plenty of dark men in various costumes, and some
with nothing on but a battered stove-pipe hat tilted on the nose, and a very scant breech-clout;
--certain smoke-dried children were clothed in nothing but sunshine --a very neat fitting and
picturesque apparel indeed.

In place of roughs and rowdies staring and blackguarding on the corners, I saw long-haired,
saddle-colored Sandwich Island maidens sitting on the ground in the shade of corner houses,
gazing indolently at whatever or whoever happened along; instead of wretched cobble-stone pavements,
I walked on a firm foundation of coral, built up from the bottom of the sea by the absurd but
persevering insect of that name, with a light layer of lava and cinders overlying the coral,
belched up out of fathomless perdition long ago through the seared and blackened crater that
stands dead and harmless in the distance now; instead of cramped and crowded street-cars, I
met dusky native women sweeping by, free as the wind, on fleet horses and astride, with gaudy
riding-sashes, streaming like banners behind them; instead of the combined stenches of Chinadom
and Brannan street slaughter-houses, I breathed the balmy fragrance of jessamine, oleander,
and the Pride of India; in place of the hurry and bustle and noisy confusion of San Francisco,
I moved in the midst of a Summer calm as tranquil as dawn in the Garden of Eden; in place of
the Golden City's skirting sand hills and the placid bay, I saw on the one side a frame-work
of tall, precipitous mountains close at hand, clad in refreshing green, and cleft by deep,
cool, chasm-like valleys--and in front the grand sweep of the ocean; a brilliant, transparent
green near the shore, bound and bordered by a long white line of foamy spray dashing against
the reef, and further out the dead blue water of the deep sea, flecked with "white caps," and
in the far horizon a single, lonely sail --a mere accent-mark to emphasize a slumberous calm
and a solitude that were without sound or limit.  When the sun sunk down--the one intruder
from other realms and persistent in suggestions of them--it was tranced luxury to sit in the
perfumed air and forget that there was any world but these enchanted islands.

It was such ecstacy to dream, and dream--till you got a bite.

A scorpion bite.  Then the first duty was to get up out of the grass and kill the scorpion;
and the next to bathe the bitten place with alcohol or brandy; and the next to resolve to keep
out of the grass in future.  Then came an adjournment to the bed-chamber and the pastime of
writing up the day's journal with one hand and the destruction of mosquitoes with the other--a
whole community of them at a slap.  Then, observing an enemy approaching,--a hairy tarantula
on stilts--why not set the spittoon on him?  It is done, and the projecting ends of his paws
give a luminous idea of the magnitude of his reach.  Then to bed and become a promenade for
a centipede with forty-two legs on a side and every foot hot enough to burn a hole through
a raw-hide.  More soaking with alcohol, and a resolution to examine the bed before entering
it, in future.  Then wait, and suffer, till all the mosquitoes in the neighborhood have crawled
in under the bar, then slip out quickly, shut them in and sleep peacefully on the floor till
morning.  Meantime it is comforting to curse the tropics in occasional wakeful intervals.

We had an abundance of fruit in Honolulu, of course.  Oranges, pine-apples, bananas, strawberries,
lemons, limes, mangoes, guavas, melons, and a rare and curious luxury called the chirimoya,
which is deliciousness itself.  Then there is the tamarind.  I thought tamarinds were made
to eat, but that was probably not the idea.  I ate several, and it seemed to me that they were
rather sour that year.  They pursed up my lips, till they resembled the stem-end of a tomato,
and I had to take my sustenance through a quill for twenty-four hours.

They sharpened my teeth till I could have shaved with them, and gave them a "wire edge" that
I was afraid would stay; but a citizen said "no, it will come off when the enamel does"--which
was comforting, at any rate. I found, afterward, that only strangers eat tamarinds--but they
only eat them once.

CHAPTER LXIV.

In my diary of our third day in Honolulu, I find this:

I am probably the most sensitive man in Hawaii to-night--especially about sitting down in the
presence of my betters.  I have ridden fifteen or twenty miles on horse-back since 5 P.M. 
and to tell the honest truth, I have a delicacy about sitting down at all.

An excursion to Diamond Head and the King's Coacoanut Grove was planned to-day--time, 4:30
P.M.--the party to consist of half a dozen gentlemen and three ladies.  They all started at
the appointed hour except myself. I was at the Government prison, (with Captain Fish and another
whaleship-skipper, Captain Phillips,) and got so interested in its examination that I did not
notice how quickly the time was passing. Somebody remarked that it was twenty minutes past
five o'clock, and that woke me up.  It was a fortunate circumstance that Captain Phillips was
along with his "turn out," as he calls a top-buggy that Captain Cook brought here in 1778,
and a horse that was here when Captain Cook came. Captain Phillips takes a just pride in his
driving and in the speed of his horse, and to his passion for displaying them I owe it that
we were only sixteen minutes coming from the prison to the American Hotel--a distance which
has been estimated to be over half a mile.  But it took some fearful driving.  The Captain's
whip came down fast, and the blows started so much dust out of the horse's hide that during
the last half of the journey we rode through an impenetrable fog, and ran by a pocket compass
in the hands of Captain Fish, a whaler of twenty-six years experience, who sat there through
the perilous voyage as self-possessed as if he had been on the euchre-deck of his own ship,
and calmly said, "Port your helm--port," from time to time, and "Hold her a little free --steady--so--so,"
and "Luff--hard down to starboard!" and never once lost his presence of mind or betrayed the
least anxiety by voice or manner. When we came to anchor at last, and Captain Phillips looked
at his watch and said, "Sixteen minutes--I told you it was in her!  that's over three miles
an hour!" I could see he felt entitled to a compliment, and so I said I had never seen lightning
go like that horse.  And I never had.

The landlord of the American said the party had been gone nearly an hour, but that he could
give me my choice of several horses that could overtake them.  I said, never mind--I preferred
a safe horse to a fast one--I would like to have an excessively gentle horse--a horse with
no spirit whatever--a lame one, if he had such a thing.  Inside of five minutes I was mounted,
and perfectly satisfied with my outfit.  I had no time to label him "This is a horse," and
so if the public took him for a sheep I cannot help it.  I was satisfied, and that was the
main thing.  I could see that he had as many fine points as any man's horse, and so I hung
my hat on one of them, behind the saddle, and swabbed the perspiration from my face and started.
I named him after this island, "Oahu" (pronounced O-waw-hee).  The first gate he came to he
started in; I had neither whip nor spur, and so I simply argued the case with him.  He resisted
argument, but ultimately yielded to insult and abuse.  He backed out of that gate and steered
for another one on the other side of the street. I triumphed by my former process.  Within
the next six hundred yards he crossed the street fourteen times and attempted thirteen gates,
and in the meantime the tropical sun was beating down and threatening to cave the top of my
head in, and I was literally dripping with perspiration. He abandoned the gate business after
that and went along peaceably enough, but absorbed in meditation.  I noticed this latter circumstance,
and it soon began to fill me with apprehension.  I said to my self, this creature is planning
some new outrage, some fresh deviltry or other--no horse ever thought over a subject so profoundly
as this one is doing just for nothing.  The more this thing preyed upon my mind the more uneasy
I became, until the suspense became almost unbearable and I dismounted to see if there was
anything wild in his eye--for I had heard that the eye of this noblest of our domestic animals
is very expressive.

I cannot describe what a load of anxiety was lifted from my mind when I found that he was only
asleep.  I woke him up and started him into a faster walk, and then the villainy of his nature
came out again.  He tried to climb over a stone wall, five or six feet high.  I saw that I
must apply force to this horse, and that I might as well begin first as last.  I plucked a
stout switch from a tamarind tree, and the moment he saw it, he surrendered.  He broke into
a convulsive sort of a canter, which had three short steps in it and one long one, and reminded
me alternately of the clattering shake of the great earthquake, and the sweeping plunging of
the Ajax in a storm.

And now there can be no fitter occasion than the present to pronounce a left-handed blessing
upon the man who invented the American saddle. There is no seat to speak of about it--one might
as well sit in a shovel --and the stirrups are nothing but an ornamental nuisance.  If I were
to write down here all the abuse I expended on those stirrups, it would make a large book,
even without pictures.  Sometimes I got one foot so far through, that the stirrup partook of
the nature of an anklet; sometimes both feet were through, and I was handcuffed by the legs;
and sometimes my feet got clear out and left the stirrups wildly dangling about my shins. 
Even when I was in proper position and carefully balanced upon the balls of my feet, there
was no comfort in it, on account of my nervous dread that they were going to slip one way or
the other in a moment.  But the subject is too exasperating to write about.

A mile and a half from town, I came to a grove of tall cocoanut trees, with clean, branchless
stems reaching straight up sixty or seventy feet and topped with a spray of green foliage sheltering
clusters of cocoa-nuts--not more picturesque than a forest of collossal ragged parasols, with
bunches of magnified grapes under them, would be.

