THE CRIMES OF ENGLAND

BY GILBERT K. CHESTERTON

MCMXVI

1916

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I

SOME WORDS TO PROFESSOR WHIRLWIND

The German Professor, his need of Education for Debate--Three Mistakes of German Controversialists--The
Multiplicity of Excuses--Falsehood against Experience-- Kultur preached by Unkultur--The Mistake
about Bernard Shaw--German Lack of Welt-Politik--Where England is really Wrong.

CHAPTER II

THE PROTESTANT HERO

Suitable Finale for the German Emperor--Frederick II. and the Power of Fear--German Influence
in England since Lather--Our German Kings and Allies-- Triumph of Frederick the Great.

CHAPTER III

THE ENIGMA OF WATERLOO

How we helped Napoleon--The Revolution and the Two Germanics--Religious Resistance of Austria
and Russia--Irreligious Resistance of Prussia and England--Negative Irreligion of England--its
Idealism in Snobbishness--Positive Irreligion of Prussia; no Idealism in Anything--Allegory
and the French Revolution--The Dual Personality of England; the Double Battle--Triumph of Blucher.

CHAPTER IV

THE COMING OF THE JANISSARIES

The Sad Story of Lord Salisbury--Ireland and Heligoland--The Young Men of Ireland--The Dirty
Work--The Use of German Mercenaries--The Unholy Alliance--Triumph of the German Mercenaries.

CHAPTER V

THE LOST ENGLAND

Truth about England and Ireland--Murder and the Two Travellers--Real Defence of England--The
Lost Revolution--Story of Cobbett and the Germans--Historical Accuracy of Cobbett--Violence
of the English Language--Exaggerated Truths versus Exaggerated Lies--Defeat of the People--Triumph
of the German Mercenaries. "The Holy Father," he said. "Look, gentlemen, this is one
of those damn fine dilemmas, as the chance or someone better in the History port. Since we
have become worldly Popes, and a coup in Italy possess them, the small scepter is dearer than
the long shepherd's crook. If not, this Scepter's sake, our Clemens in the process, the pious
orthodox emperor formally to the war Explained? A holy father, however, shooting with guns
on him, is hardly a favor Karl do, zurückzuzwingen his brave Germanic mercenaries into the church.
And vice versa: when the heretical German princes in arms against the imperial majesty and Panier
it will raise the Holy Father did not let her soul rest in temporarily and secretly use their
weapons? In the meantime, but the tree grows and stretches its roots. "

Now the duke was anxious. It was the pleasant hour of his day's work, in which he fed his dogs
and falcons with their own hands. "Gentlemen," he said, "I would this Germanic monk not seduce.
It has shown me his portrait: a clumsy peasant head without neck deep in the shoulders. And his patron,
the Prince's saxon - beer kegs!

Guicciardin crushed the delicate cup in his hand and a curse between his teeth. "It is humid
here in the hall, "he apologized, and immediately raised the Duke on the board. "We want to breathe fresh
air," he said.

"Good-bye, gentlemen, after sunset, in the green cabinet. "

He left the room to the Venetians, on which he found a pleasure, its buildings, showing terraces
and gardens. There were those incomparable facilities, which the last Visconte had built and filled
with his ghostly goings, the remnants of that "Castle of Happiness", where, as a timid demon
in his magic castle, Italy, with perfect Art reigned, and from which
he had carried away his minions as soon as they became ill, so never
knock the death of the marble gates.

A good portion of the old glory, was to expire, or crushed and buried by the war and the newly
raised bulwarks. After all, was still enough left for the flattering Admiration of the beautiful
Laelius, and Francesco Sforza spent some nice hours. Only because they entered a riding school, which
of Bourbon during his governorship of Milan built in the shaded royal trains, but to then equal
to cheer again. He had heard the sound of laughter and the fact that Guicciardini himself sees,
the set is in a rural hemdärmlig porch in the midst of Lombard grooms had played cards with them
and winning bids for a harsh and local wines. "The pleasures of a Republican, "joked Frank Sforza."
He is recovering from his princely intercourse.

"The Lelio beautiful smile ambiguous, and they continued their desire change.

The first to attend an in the moss-green cabinets, if he does not approximately equal to table of repealed
enter and leave had not come back, was Girolamo Morone. He was absorbed in the picture. For
a while he liked the delighted eyes of the gracious wife grazed have, but now he explored with
an intense look in the face of Pescara, and what He made strong moves out or read into them, turned
out in the excited Man with violent gestures and broken sounds. "How will you play, Pescara?
stammered he, the mischievous question, which was in Victoria's innocent
eye, grimly repetitive and the pitch-black brows.

Then he received a heavy blow on the shoulder. "You fall in love in the divine Victoria, swamp you?
"Asked Guicciardin with a coarse laugh.

"Seriously, Guicciardin what you think of the red here with the Jerkins?",
And the Registrar pointed to the general.

"He looks like an executioner."

. Not Guicciardin I mean, what do you think of these trains are there to an Italian? or a Spaniard?
"

. 'A nice mix, Morone The vices of the two: false, cruel and greedy have So! I know him, and you
yourself, Chancellor, I've drawn him so.

Remember! Rome; Two years ago, as the witty Jakob us together across
the Tiber was.

"

"Have I, then change it was the error of an instantaneous impression. People and things."

"Things are, indeed, the people, no, they disguise themselves and
spread, but they stay, who they are.

Not true, Your Highness? "Guicciardin turned against the duke, who just entered and followed
on the heels of the Venetians.

The four green stool is occupied and the doors were banned. The open window filled a glowing evening
sky.

"Gentlemen," the Duke began with decent look, "how far the powers?"

"My modesty," said the beautiful Laelius, "is mandated to complete."

"The wisdom of the Holy Father", followed Guicciardini, "also wants an end. The League was the
favorite of many more of their thoughts: it turns out, as it deserves, at the head, with reservation
of the highest forms of gentle pastoral ministry. "

"The league is closed!" cried the Duke courageous. "Chancellor, instead of reports from!"

"Gentlemen," began he, "in her letters promising the French regency, with the consent of the prisoner to
Madrid seated kings, a considerable army and renounces while finally,
in the hands of the Holy Father, the claims on Naples and Milan.

"

"Optime!" shouted the Duke. "And we would get as far as we Swiss do in sparse clusters, if only
we had ducats to ring them so. Not true, Chancellor? "

"There's advice," to create, insured the two others.

"But, gentlemen," urged Morone, "hurry! The Bourbon was here. We were looking into the cards. The
three generals threaten-month period in Milan to take if we do not disarm. We must strike,
and poised to strike, we must choose our captain, now, immediately! "

"We have come," said the two BWA again unanimously.

"The League give the commander!" repeated the chancellor. "This is nothing less than the Italy
Los decide! Who do we oppose the Pescara, the greatest general of the Present? But name me the
equal spirit!

Our great men of war, the Alviano, the Trivulzio has long made the grave writing, and the other
has killed Pavia. Calleth it to me! Show me the powerful figure! Where is the armored saving
hand that I grab? "

A gloom came over the company and the Registrar feasted on the depression of the Allies.

"We have Urbinate or Ferrarese," Nasi said, but said Guicciardin flush
the Duke of Ferrara, excluding that of holiness as its renegade vassal.

"Select we the Duke of Urbino. He is petty and selfish, without broad view, a perpetual Disappearances
and procrastinator, but an attempted military man, and we have no
other " said the Florentine with a furrowed brow.

"There would still be your Hans Medici, Guicciardini, and you had the young daredevil, for whom your
heart seems to desire, "he teased the Venetians.

"Mocked me your, Nasi? Guicciardini was angry. "That a young malefactors our patriotic thing profane
and reckless Jack our last war with the cubes of a reckless Battle gamble? The Urbinate will
not destroy us, at least when it perpetuates the war, the aid of a choking fever or stranding
of the mercenaries in the imperial camp waiting. If we choose him. " He sighed, and at the same moment
he drove furiously against the Chancellor going on, he accompanied the end of his speech with
a despairing gesture Games saw. "Let the grimaces, fool!" he shouted at him, "... I beg your
pardon, your highness, when I am impatient, and sovereignty is on
my side, I believe ... "The Duke looked to the Registrar.

"Be it," Morone said, "we agree with, but it is a joylessness Yes, the sovereign to the soulless gives
commencement of our alliance. "The Duke nodded gloomily." No, "cried the Chancellor, "they do
not, gives the authority to withdraw, they can not justify it, to exhaust the last resources of
the Duchy!

It attracts not discouraged the field, in advance and beaten! The league is canceled! Or let her
look for a victorious general. "

The two others were silent discontented.

"And I know one!" Morone said.

"You know him?" shouted Guicciardini. "With all the devils out with it! Speech! Who we throw into
the scale against Pescara?

"Speak, Chancellor!" also drove the Venetians.

Morone, who had jumped from his stool, entered a step forward and spoke to loud voice: "Who we
throw into the scale against Pescara Pescara on an equal footing, it myself! "

A horror petrified society. The Duke stared his outstanding Chancellor with open eyes, while
Guicciardini Venetian and the slow hand to his Forehead and began to meditate. They both guessed
as smart people with no difficulty Morone as it said. They were the sons of a century, where
every kind of treachery and Breach of faith to the everyday things belonged. If it was an ordinary
condottiere traded, one of those princely or plebeian adventurers
who their bands to the highest bidder sold, they probably would have
anticipated the Registrar be impious word from his lips.

But the first imperial army leader? But Pescara?

Impossible! But why not Pescara? And there began to speak passionately Morone, she swallowed
his words.

"Gentlemen," he said, "Pescara is born among us.

He has never entered Spain. The glorious Italian is his wife. He must love Italy. It belongs
to us, and in this fateful hour, as we have with our other free arm unmarried already bound do we
take the greatest son of the homeland and its only commander to complete. We want to go to him,
embrace him and call him: "Save Italy, Pescara! Pull it up! Or is it pulls you into the abyss!
"

"Enough recited!" Guicciardini called. "A visionary like you, Chancellor, with the irrepressible
jumps your imagination is there to think up the impossible to pronounce and, perhaps, A closer
look, not completely impossible. Now, however, was silent and let the sane inspect it and to
fabricate what you have prophesied in fever. Do not gesture as a madman, but sit down and let
me talk!

Rulers, often in desperate situations and always boldness is the best and only advice. The war in the
Urbino stares at us like a mask with blank eyes. We all feel it would paralyze us slowly and
methodically to ruin. Better to be a neck-breaking venture. So yes! When it comes to me, we try
to Pescara! He betrayed us to the Emperor, it may destroy us all. But who knows if he loses
his demon? First we must ask ourselves: Who is Pescara? I will tell you: a brilliant machine
that the opportunities separates sharp and weighs, the things under their deceptive has to
face their true value and its real power to investigate the habit.

Would he otherwise, he is the winner of Bicocca and Pavia? If we take him, he is first a great
pretend indignation over a case, he certainly has in itself some Hours, is "considered to have,
though perhaps only as an exercise of its constantly working mind. Then he will weigh up slowly
and carefully: the material that we consider it , Enter the name of our Italy, whether it could
form an army and later a kingdom and - his reward. And because the product is indeed noble,
but brittle and a huge fine Hand requires, we must offer him the greatest reward: a crown. "

"What
crown?" stammered the Duke anxiously.

"A crown, sovereign, I said, no Duke hat, and said the beautiful Naples. It is in enemy hands,
that is done, and a feud of holiness. "

"If we dispensation crowns,"
mocked the Venetians, "why we do not offer the Pescara equal to the
fable and dream crown of Italy? "

"The dream crown!" The face of
the Florentine shrugged painfully. Then he said defiantly, and forgetting
the people sitting around: "The Crown of Italy Pescara, if at the
top of ours! Army rides, it is anonymous herschweben before him. Does
he want her as the greatest of our History, and take hold, this ideal
crown, after which for so many hands and The wicked have laid the
most! May she be on his head to the truth! And, "he said boldly,"
because we leave any ordinary measure, and our Endgedanken give shape
and innermost desires, know, gentlemen: Pescara is the predicted target
as it would be possible in the time benefits are great and happy in
the stars Promises. Italy is building it, he will master it. But,
Chancellor, I have you called a dreamer and fantasize larger than
you Returning from the realm of Unborn in the reality and we ask the
question: who will take over the role of the tempter "

"I throw myself
as Curtius into the abyss!" cried the Chancellor.

"Law", approved
Guicciardini. "You're the person to do so. One else would refuse to
vote, and he would drown in shame if he were to come to Pescara to
him by his treachery talk. You are shameless but are capable of anything,
and your fool's cap brings you out of situations and complications,
where everyone would hang others. Will not Pescara, he takes you from
your crazy side and treats you as a buffoon, he wants to, he is under
your tragic comic gestures and your wrinkles the seriousness and the
size of the thing too knowledge discovery. Go thou, my son and try
the Pescara! "

The duke, who had huddled brooding on his stool wanted,
just after light call, since the dawn rose, and he feared the dark.
As he saw things unexpectedly come on its top and was afraid. "Chancellor,
you must not!" forbade it. "I want to do with this big powerful Pescara
have nothing. Do we get him, he is first take my levels, which attract
the war, and my fortress, which they claim. And he has, he will keep
them. He gambled that, I will atone for first and fall into Drums
of the saying of the emperor, my liege lord. Oh, I see through you!
You all, This even there "- he looked sadly after his Chancellor -"
Only your habet Italy in the sense that applies to you and I "- he
blew across the palm of his hand -" so much! But I am a prince and
want my heritage, my Milan, and nothing but my Milan! My only concern is to point out that about England, at least, you are
invariably and miraculously wrong.

Now speaking seriously, my dear Professor, it will not do. It could be easy to fence with you
for ever and parry every point you attempt to make, until English people began to think there
was nothing wrong with England at all. But I refuse to play for safety in this way. There is
a very great deal that is really wrong with England, and it ought not to be forgotten even
in the full blaze of your marvellous mistakes. I cannot have my countrymen tempted to those
pleasures of intellectual pride which are the result of comparing themselves with you. The
deep collapse and yawning chasm of your ineptitude leaves me upon a perilous spiritual elevation.
Your mistakes are matters of fact; but to enumerate them does not exhaust the truth. For instance,
the learned man who rendered the phrase in an English advertisement "cut you dead" as "hack
you to death," was in error; but to say that many such advertisements are vulgar is not an
error. Again, it is true that the English poor are harried and insecure, with insufficient
instinct for armed revolt, though you will be wrong if you say that they are occupied literally
in shooting the moon. It is true that the average Englishman is too much attracted by aristocratic
society; though you will be in error if you quote dining with Duke Humphrey as an example of
it. In more ways than one you forget what is meant by idiom.

I have therefore thought it advisable to provide you with a catalogue of the real crimes of
England; and I have selected them on a principle which cannot fail to interest and please you.
On many occasions we have been very wrong indeed. We were very wrong indeed when we took part
in preventing Europe from putting a term to the impious piracies of Frederick the Great. We
were very wrong indeed when we allowed the triumph over Napoleon to be soiled with the mire
and blood of Blucher's sullen savages. We were very wrong indeed when we allowed the peaceful
King of Denmark to be robbed in broad daylight by a brigand named Bismarck; and when we allowed
the Prussian swashbucklers to enslave and silence the French provinces which they could neither
govern nor persuade. We were very wrong indeed when we flung to such hungry adventurers a position
so important as Heligoland. We were very wrong indeed when we praised the soulless Prussian
education and copied the soulless Prussian laws. Knowing that you will mingle your tears with
mine over this record of English wrong-doing, I dedicate it to you, and I remain,

Yours reverently,

G. K. CHESTERTON

II--The Protestant Hero

A question is current in our looser English journalism touching what should be done with the
German Emperor after a victory of the Allies. Our more feminine advisers incline to the view
that he should be shot. This is to make a mistake about the very nature of hereditary monarchy.
Assuredly the Emperor William at his worst would be entitled to say to his amiable Crown Prince
what Charles II. said when his brother warned him of the plots of assassins: "They will never
kill me to make you king." Others, of greater monstrosity of mind, have suggested that he should
be sent to St. Helena. So far as an estimate of his historical importance goes, he might as
well be sent to Mount Calvary. What we have to deal with is an elderly, nervous, not unintelligent
person who happens to be a Hohenzollern; and who, to do him justice, does think more of the
Hohenzollerns as a sacred caste than of his own particular place in it. In such families the
old boast and motto of hereditary kingship has a horrible and degenerate truth. The king never
dies; he only decays for ever.

If it were a matter of the smallest importance what happened to the Emperor William when once
his house had been disarmed, I should satisfy my fancy with another picture of his declining
years; a conclusion that would be peaceful, humane, harmonious, and forgiving.

In various parts of the lanes and villages of South England the pedestrian will come upon an
old and quiet public-house, decorated with a dark and faded portrait in a cocked hat and the
singular inscription, "The King of Prussia." These inn signs probably commemorate the visit
of the Allies after 1815, though a great part of the English middle classes may well have connected
them with the time when Frederick II. was earning his title of the Great, along with a number
of other territorial titles to which he had considerably less claim. Sincere and simple-hearted
Dissenting ministers would dismount before that sign (for in those days Dissenters drank beer
like Christians, and indeed manufactured most of it) and would pledge the old valour and the
old victory of him whom they called the Protestant Hero. We should be using every word with
literal exactitude if we said that he was really something devilish like a hero. Whether he
was a Protestant hero or not can be decided best by those who have read the correspondence
of a writer calling himself Voltaire, who was quite shocked at Frederick's utter lack of religion
of any kind. But the little Dissenter drank his beer in all innocence and rode on. And the
great blasphemer of Potsdam would have laughed had he known; it was a jest after his own heart.
Such was the jest he made when he called upon the emperors to come to communion, and partake
of the eucharistic body of Poland. Had he been such a Bible reader as the Dissenter doubtless
thought him, he might haply have foreseen the vengeance of humanity upon his house. He might
have known what Poland was and was yet to be; he might have known that he ate and drank to
his damnation, discerning not the body of God.

Whether the placing of the present German Emperor in charge of one of these wayside public-houses
would be a jest after his own heart possibly remains to be seen. But it would be much more
melodious and fitting an end than any of the sublime euthanasias which his enemies provide
for him. That old sign creaking above him as he sat on the bench outside his home of exile
would be a much more genuine memory of the real greatness of his race than the modern and almost
gimcrack stars and garters that were pulled in Windsor Chapel. From modern knighthood has departed
all shadow of chivalry; how far we have travelled from it can easily be tested by the mere
suggestion that Sir Thomas Lipton, let us say, should wear his lady's sleeve round his hat
or should watch his armour in the Chapel of St. Thomas of Canterbury. The giving and receiving
of the Garter among despots and diplomatists is now only part of that sort of pottering mutual
politeness which keeps the peace in an insecure and insincere state of society. But that old
blackened wooden sign is at least and after all the sign of something; the sign of the time
when one solitary Hohenzollern did not only set fire to fields and cities, but did truly set
on fire the minds of men, even though it were fire from hell.

Everything was young once, even Frederick the Great. It was an appropriate preface to the terrible
epic of Prussia that it began with an unnatural tragedy of the loss of youth. That blind and
narrow savage who was the boy's father had just sufficient difficulty in stamping out every
trace of decency in him, to show that some such traces must have been there. If the younger
and greater Frederick ever had a heart, it was a broken heart; broken by the same blow that
broke his flute. When his only friend was executed before his eyes, there were two corpses
to be borne away; and one to be borne on a high war-horse through victory after victory: but
with a small bottle of poison in the pocket. It is not irrelevant thus to pause upon the high
and dark house of his childhood. For the peculiar quality which marks out Prussian arms and
ambitions from all others of the kind consists in this wrinkled and premature antiquity. There
is something comparatively boyish about the triumphs of all the other tyrants. There was something
better than ambition in the beauty and ardour of the young Napoleon. He was at least a lover;
and his first campaign was like a love-story. All that was pagan in him worshipped the Republic
as men worship a woman, and all that was Catholic in him understood the paradox of Our Lady
of Victories. Henry VIII., a far less reputable person, was in his early days a good knight
of the later and more florid school of chivalry; we might almost say that he was a fine old
English gentleman so long as he was young. Even Nero was loved in his first days: and there
must have been some cause to make that Christian maiden cast flowers on his dishonourable grave.
But the spirit of the great Hohenzollern smelt from the first of the charnel. He came out to
his first victory like one broken by defeats; his strength was stripped to the bone and fearful
as a fleshless resurrection; for the worst of what could come had already befallen him. The
very construction of his kingship was built upon the destruction of his manhood. He had known
the final shame; his soul had surrendered to force. He could not redress that wrong; he could
only repeat it and repay it. He could make the souls of his soldiers surrender to his gibbet
and his whipping-post; he could 'make the souls of the nations surrender to his soldiers. He
could only break men in as he had been broken; while he could break in, he could never break
out. He could not slay in anger, nor even sin with simplicity. Thus he stands alone among the
conquerors of their kind; his madness was not due to a mere misdirection of courage. Before
the whisper of war had come to him the foundations of his audacity had been laid in fear.

Of the work he did in this world there need be no considerable debate. It was romantic, if
it be romantic that the dragon should swallow St. George. He turned a small country into a
great one: he made a new diplomacy by the fulness and far-flung daring of his lies: he took
away from criminality all reproach of carelessness and incompleteness. He achieved an amiable
combination of thrift and theft. He undoubtedly gave to stark plunder something of the solidity
of property. He protected whatever he stole as simpler men protect whatever they have earned
or inherited. He turned his hollow eyes with a sort of loathsome affection upon the territories
which had most reluctantly become his: at the end of the Seven Years' War men knew as little
how he was to be turned out of Silesia as they knew why he had ever been allowed in it. In
Poland, like a devil in possession, he tore asunder the body he inhabited; but it was long
before any man dreamed that such disjected limbs could live again. Nor were the effects of
his break from Christian tradition confined to Christendom; Macaulay's world-wide generalisation
is very true though very Macaulayese. But though, in a long view, he scattered the seeds of
war all over the world, his own last days were passed in a long and comparatively prosperous
peace; a peace which received and perhaps deserved a certain praise: a peace with which many
European peoples were content. For though he did not understand justice, he could understand
moderation. He was the most genuine and the most wicked of pacifists. He did not want any more
wars. He had tortured and beggared all his neighbours; but he bore them no malice for it.

The immediate cause of that spirited disaster, the intervention of England on behalf of the
new Hohenzollern throne, was due, of course, to the national policy of the first William Pitt.
He was the kind of man whose vanity and simplicity are too easily overwhelmed by the obvious.
He saw nothing in a European crisis except a war with France; and nothing in a war with France
except a repetition of the rather fruitless glories of Agincourt and Malplaquet. He was of
the Erastian Whigs, sceptical but still healthy-minded, and neither good enough nor bad enough
to understand that even the war of that irreligious age was ultimately a religious war. He
had not a shade of irony in his whole being; and beside Frederick, already as old as sin, he
was like a rather brilliant schoolboy.

But the direct causes were not the only causes, nor the true ones. The true causes were connected
with the triumph of one of the two traditions which had long been struggling in England. And
it is pathetic to record that the foreign tradition was then represented by two of the ablest
men of that age, Frederick of Prussia and Pitt; while what was really the old English tradition
was represented by two of the stupidest men that mankind ever tolerated in any age, George
III. and Lord Bute. Bute was the figurehead of a group of Tories who set about fulfilling the
fine if fanciful scheme for a democratic monarchy sketched by Bolingbroke in "The Patriot King."
It was bent in all sincerity on bringing men's minds back to what are called domestic affairs,
affairs as domestic as George III. It might have arrested the advancing corruption of Parliaments
and enclosure of country-sides, by turning men's minds from the foreign glories of the great
Whigs like Churchill and Chatham; and one of its first acts was to terminate the alliance with
Prussia. Unfortunately, whatever was picturesque in the piracy of Potsdam was beyond the imagination
of Windsor. But whatever was prosaic in Potsdam was already established at Windsor; the economy
of cold mutton, the heavy-handed taste in the arts, and the strange northern blend of boorishness
with etiquette. If Bolingbroke's ideas had been applied by a spirited person, by a Stuart,
for example, or even by Queen Elizabeth (who had real spirit along with her extraordinary vulgarity),
the national soul might have broken free from its new northern chains. "What excitement, what pleasure! Italia throws
herself into his arms ... He will caress subjugate them, and throw away ... oh, he is with it
like a cat playing with the mouse, "and he made a hash with the right gesture.

A flaming anger overpower the Colonna. "Outcast," she cried, "I have asked you Pescara would like to do? Are
you the person knowing it? I welcome you, herumzudeuten him? ...
Like a cat with a mouse ... disgusting!

So you've played with Julien, dishonorable! "

This Julia was from a noble novarese race, and was the granddaughter of the learned Doctor blade
Numa Dati, who had healed the spear wound Pescara. Del Guasto, in the Taken the doctor home
district, had misled the girl and changed the flat. The price given was then destroyed by shame,
the innocent face of her grandfather far away from Novara in a Roman
convent, and had fled to the powerful Colonna Knees begging to have
mercy on her and make her honor.

Since it was a dishonorable Victoria, bit his lip, the Don Juan. "Calm down, lady," he said,
"Balance table your words. I'm not dishonorable, but I would be if I did not leave Julien
would have.

I'm not talking about the differences in the blood of a Avalos and Dati, but just assume that
I do not like each man killed, but an innocent to the bride proper. "

Victoria's human heart revolted. "It is you, the poor thing with your caresses and assurances,
and perhaps even be related to false vows and oaths to the event! Are you do not? Can you deny
it? "

He replied: "I do not deny it, but it was my martial law, for war
is between the Will male and female innocence.

I tried, yes. Why do they resisted not? Why were they in? Why are you accusing me that she
was weak and that I now despise and scorn? "

Victoria froze in horror. "Wicked person!" she moaned.

"Madonna", abbreviated the conversation the young man, "that's an
awkward conversation, and your I'm tired of it.

I suggest you before a tribunal. Once in Novara, we step forward the general, and your verklaget
me. I will justify me, and the general who the world and its systems knows, will absolve me,
as I think. Now I am leaving You. I have yet to attract people, because without a strong cover
I venture in these troubled Times not to take responsibility for
you. "He bowed and left her head high.

Victoria turned angry, and chose the opposite outcome. It required cooling and went down into
the garden. With the last light of day she entered the palace behind the lying area, which was
enveloped by high walls, full of laurel and myrtle and the nachtröpfelnde the rain refreshed.
Your steps searched the garden final casino.

The bright enough even if with difficulty to distinguish the letters in the Gospels, beech, which
she made in passing from the library and before they sat down, the hot forehead in his folded
hands. Completely filled with the fate of July and Enlarge Pescara, they went through with the
eyes without thinking, and breathed the open page in full the refreshing air. After a while
she became aware of what they read: it was the triple temptation of the Lord by the demon
in the desert. They read less with the physical than the spiritual eye, which she knew by
heart from childhood.

She saw the demon come before the Saviour, which the simple word of loyalty and obedience the
sophistry of the tempter held out. When the tempter urged violent, indicated the Son of Man to the
body of his future spear wound ... As modified, the white dress in a light armor, and the peaceful
rights bepanzerte itself. Now it was Pescara, the hand over his wound by shimmering, laid during
the demon now a long Rock wore black lawyers and behaved like a juggler. Such was the Colonna
on which lie before her Bible leaf. Angry about the game of her senses,
she did the violence on and looked up.

"Whoever you are, and what you want?" she exclaimed, surprised, and a dark figure standing before
her replied: "I am Girolamo Morone, and come talk to Victoria Colonna." Victoria remembered to
whom it was shown today the Pope, and now also saw the importing
servants.

This inflamed the traffic lights hovering over the Lady moved with the Registrar a stool and
away, while the Marchesa in the emerging Light the ugly but powerful
Face of her nightly score considered that it inspired no reluctance.

"Too late", she said, "Ye seek me, but you bring me to a good job my Lord, to which I travel early
in the morning. "

"Before I think soon Pescara even want to," Morone said, "and not by him I will You talk, but
only by Victoria Colonna, whom I adore and worship him with all of Italy as a deity, but which I was
angry and I raise against the complaint. "

Who are you talking to me like that? It was on the lips of the Marchioness, but she asked quickly
and warm-blooded, "Whose your lament to me What is my fault, moron?"

"That you vergrabet your face bright and inspiring in scrolls and
books and under shade Fables and lives!

That you hated the first Caesar and the latest homage that your Troy
wept and to communicate forget your people that you press Prometheus'
bonds and the bonds of Italy not hurt!

Three women have wrought! "

"Which three?" she asked.

"The first was Beatrix Este.

When her aging husband, the Moor, on the swelling Mouth kissing,
she whispered, her blond braids that would line a tiara, the wise
entangled Mohr in the blond braids and poisoned his nephew, the heir
of Milan.

"

"The Shameful!"

"The boy was wilting a proud and fiery woman who Aragonesin Isabelle, the Beatrix mortally hated,
and with their young, strong arms the sick child, her husband, to wanted to raise the lack of
the throne, she begged and implored her father, the king of Naples, until it threatened the Moor.
"

"Poor thing!"

"The Moor was safe as long as the ruler of Florence, the young Medici, was in between. This
was the toy of his beautiful wife, the arrogant Alfonsine Orsini, and the woman overpower him
that the door announced the Ethiopian friendship and alliance. Cried the Moor the stranger. "

"Unhappy!"

"Dreie
Italy have tied up. The fourth, you are, it must deliver."

"Chancellor, I am not the wife of an old man, still a boy, nor a fool, one more thing others
of which, can be beguiled by the woman, and ... I desire no crown. "They blushed and was like
purple.

"Lady," the Chancellor said that "seeks the crown you. Have pity on your people, and vertretet
it in Pescara! I do not say liebkoset, umgarnet, tempt him! I did not conspire with you, I date
no division of roles, I let you go, I walk with you in the Bet on who to reach him first. And you're
the first, so umfanget his knees and speaks in the fullness of your heart and implored: Pescara!
I'm Italian and lay at your feet: lift me and take me to your breast! "

Victoria was touched, and the Chancellor wept.

"Illustrious lady," he said, "Who am I, who may so speak to you, I
am not worthy to be I kiss the hem of your garment.

Louis Mohr, my most gracious lord, took me in Milan picked up from the street and like a quaint
little poodle play at his feet . Let As I enjoyed my education and at his court and later
in his service the face and the gesture of my time, all the exuberant triumph of the century
considered.

The poor Mohr! His evil star and the French kidnapped him to Loches, where he was ten long Years
languishing in prison. In his last I saw him there again, because at that time, by force of circumstances,
I was in French service, and I longed for the face of my benefactor. Since I saw him, I was
frightened and had trouble him to know. He looked like a spirit prison and misery had finished
his face strangely. Only he opened his mouth, I found myself readjusting it. He smiled and said
in his incomparably more subtle way: 'Is it you, Jerome? It's nice of you that you visit me. I
blame thee not, if you are entered into the service of my enemy.

The circumstances compel and how do I know you, you'll be my sons still a loyal friend and advisor,
if the wheel of Fortuna will have again turned. You are now a mature diplomat become and betray
not a bad school. Do you remember how I said to you, your funny Put away your face and even
gestures with which you now your new Friends have won? "

He joked a while generous, but then he spoke seriously and said, 'You know, Girolamo, what me busy
here in my leisure? Not my lot, but Italy and over again Italy. I mourn as the agony of my
soul that I, the woman enticed the stranger I called, you must reckon with the present and of
a destructive part of your body to be threatened.

But I sense, as you will your back. There was the Valentino, that Caesar Borgia, who tried
it with the pure evil. But, Girolamo, my son, evil must be used only in small portions and
with care, otherwise it will kill. There is now the Rovere, Pope Julius that, driving on a
thunder cloud to the stranger, which he himself has called no less than I do. But the old man eats,
his violent Soul is soon floating in the Hades, and after him, remains the ordinary high priests,
the too weak to form Italy, but just strong enough to each other in the healing works to prevent.

Girolamo,
my favorite: I do not think that goes down my Italy, because it helps Immortality in itself,
but I want to spare him the purgatory of servitude. Take care, my son: I read between your
eyes that you will still play a role in the frenzied dance of events that swept away on my Lombard
ground.

If any of these day a power and changing formations of these fleeting shapes one person, but
neither a wicked nor a priest, but a general who captures the victory
to his iron sole, who and whose tribe he was, just not a stranger
to give you up, body and soul!

What List of falsehood and necessary - because otherwise is the foundation of an empire - that
take on you, my Son, but he remains spotless' "

The Chancellor was on his feet.

His enthusiastic speech tore him without his knowing it - and also taken Victoria did not realize
it - far beyond the limits of truth. "This Chosen ", he exclaimed," am the most beautiful
and pure woman to the side! Italy wants the Virtue striding physically seen to live up to her. Our
destruction is the unleashing from the custom of the torn belt of farming. Here is a victory
of which carry greater than the swinging on the battlefield, and a magic wand more powerful
than the marshal's baton. I see before me, this queen of virtue, the priestess who guards the sacred
fire, the preserver of the rule, and, Hosanna! Italy converts behind her steps, praising and rejoicing!
" The chancellor made a move to overthrow Victories homage to the feet, but he stepped back and
whispered coyly: ".

This Louis Mohr said in his prison"

Victoria lowered her eyes, because they felt that they were full of joy and spent like two Suns.

As
the Chancellor said: "I have tired you, madam, his eyes fall to you, Ye must. tomorrow early
on and be heavy with sleep. "And the wily stepped back into the night, which had been reduced
to the Eternal City.

Chapter Three

away at a window, looking over the towers of Novara and a sultry steaming level tomorrow still clear
snow peaks of Monte Rosa, reached Pescara sat and worked on Draft field plan that should lead
the army of the emperor to Milan.

So incessantly he went to his thoughts that he did not hear the quiet footsteps of the valet
and he became aware only when the lemonade of those offered. While the drink with a slight Stirring
spoon, he remarked: "I do not scold you, Battista, that you last night against my explicit command
occurred here with me. You like, next door sleeping, I probably harder one breath than usual
have - a nightmare, an oppression ... not to speak of.

"He took a sip from the glass.

Battista, a clever Neapolitans hid his fear under a submissive air. He lied and swore on the
holy virgin, he thought to hear himself called by name, He never had the nerve to command without
entering the bedroom of Grace, while but he never called in deed and truth and a strict prohibition
against his master from a beautiful human emotion that was attached skipped. It was terrible
to hear him groan and then held up his arms in the camp until the commander again took the
breath away.

"It was nothing," repeated he, "I needed no assistance. But I want you, as told not to scold,
now that we must part. I lose you do not like, but filial duty going on. And since your aged
and ailing parents starve in Tricarico, I can not up .

Keep Go and prepare them a carefree retirement. The perfect barber and volubility Rogue as I
know you, you'll know to help you anywhere. Go with God, my son, thou shalt be satisfied with
me. "And he took the pen.

Battista fell from the clouds.

He conspired with a desperate gesture, this time with truth that his father had long been
in heaven, and his mother, who Carambaccia, gewerbsam and very healthy and fat as an eel. The write
commander replied: "You're right, Battista, Potenza live in your poor parents, not in Tricarico,
but that is close together. " He handed the servant adopted a cash statement.

So down smashed Battista be liked - he knew a word of Pescara was irrevocable - but he was lightning
quick oblique view of the digit of the total slip, which only was modest. The general wasted
no large nor small, neither the Well the emperor nor his. He also was careful, though, the barber
by too rich Donation to the importance of the incident to our attention and to come into the light, as if
to bargain for his silence because he was fully convinced that at
the first Baptist opportunity to sell his knowledge would be more
expensive, where they had an interest in be informed of the physical
being of the general exactly.

Sorely disappointed and cursing his birth, was the gracious Mr. Battista feet, he embraced the
knees and kissed his hand. "Farewell," he said, "spaces and the as of yet. "He pointed to the
dishes, and waved to the transgressors of his command friendly away
from its services.

Before he had again absorbed in his plan, rattled out a falling spoon and a jumping in glass shards,
and the Duke of Bourbon, of the destroyed Battista rudely cast aside, unannounced showed his
tall slender figure, for he had to every hour of free entry to the general.
"Your Highness?" Pescara is turned against him and got up from his
seat.

"I beg your pardon. I was about to verreiten to my troops,"
said the Duke, "Because I was in the suburbs, a traveling merchant
in the eyes, which just before the gate the doctor your lordship,
the knife Numa Dati, dismounted from his mule. If the figure not worn
a dignified face, I would have sworn that my unforgettable friend
Registrar of Milan to behold. I let one of my people after the stranger
inquire and was told the passenger was a host of doctors, a jeweler
from Milan named Scipione Osnago. Perhaps, or maybe not, but one of
many larvae of diverse Chancellor. He pushes his body in a certain
way, which is difficult to deny can, and I still was not through the
gate, I rode easily back to you the likely visit to report this valuable
man. "

"I expected it long ago with the excuses and protestations
of Milan," said the General. "But since he did not appear and we know
from good sources, are continuing Herzog to fix and upgrade, I started
to give to the Registrar. Now he is late. Tomorrow at midnight, extends
the deadline given to the Duke. Stroke of twelve we march; would it
be Morone would bring great news. "

"Yes, this moron!" talked of
Bourbon. "He will have been brewed something. I our Ultimatum brought
to Milan, I saw it over his forehead like a swarming anthill. It makes
you any idea, Marchese, what is the cheeky for a head. While I was
in Milan ruled and he was my advice and writer, he has me over the
table - because I loved it, with to feed him and me to delight in
his fables and ideas - all set to throne and coupled with all the
princesses. And the best: it was in the mind nonsense. If justice counted on
their shameful gibbets hundreds of the innocent dead, they could still say that for them death
was more hopeful than life for the heathen. If the new daylight discovered their vile tortures,
there had lingered in the darkness some dim memory that they were tortures of Purgatory and
not, like those which Parisian and Prussian diabolists showed shameless in the sunshine, of
naked hell. They claimed a truth not yet disentangled from human nature; for indeed earth is
not even earth without heaven, as a landscape is not a landscape without the sky. And in, a
universe without God there is not room enough for a man.

It may be held, therefore, that there must in any case have come a conflict between the old
world and the new; if only because the old are often broad, while the young are always narrow.
The Church had learnt, not at the end but at the beginning of her centuries, that the funeral
of God is always a premature burial. If the bugles of Bonaparte raised the living populace
of the passing hour, she could blow that yet more revolutionary trumpet that shall raise all
the democracy of the dead. But if we concede that collision was inevitable between the new
Republic on the one hand and Holy Russia and the Holy Roman Empire on the other, there remain
two great European forces which, in different attitudes and from very different motives, determined
the ultimate combination. Neither of them had any tincture of Catholic mysticism. Neither of
them had any tincture of Jacobin idealism. Neither of them, therefore, had any real moral reason
for being in the war at all. The first was England, and the second was Prussia.

It is very arguable that England must, in any case, have fought to keep her influence on the
ports of the North Sea. It is quite equally arguable that if she had been as heartily on the
side of the French Revolution as she was at last against it, she could have claimed the same
concessions from the other side. It is certain that England had no necessary communion with
the arms and tortures of the Continental tyrannies, and that she stood at the parting of the
ways. England was indeed an aristocracy, but a liberal one; and the ideas growing in the middle
classes were those which had already made America, and were remaking France. The fiercest Jacobins,
such as Danton, were deep in the liberal literature of England. The people had no religion
to fight for, as in Russia or La Vendée. The parson was no longer a priest, and had long been
a small squire. "Come," she said, "it is wet." - And we went on through a dilapidated
fence around the side of the house lying vegetable garden and along the bottom of the water
after the Boskettpartien that lay before the house. We have dropped the comparatively democratic adjective, and
kept the aristocratic noun. South England is still, as it was called in the Middle Ages, a
garden; but it is the kind where grow the plants called "lords and ladies."

We became more and more insular even about our continental conquests; we stood upon our island
as if on an anchored ship. We never thought of Nelson at Naples, but only eternally at Trafalgar;
and even that Spanish name we managed to pronounce wrong. But even if we regard the first attack
upon Napoleon as a national necessity, the general trend remains true. It only changes the
tale from a tragedy of choice to a tragedy of chance. And the tragedy was that, for a second
time, we were at one with the Germans. The squad, which Uri had caught one, to the hordes who
now approached in a cloud of dust behind the beating drums. The general rode to meet his brave,
received by roaring cheers, and drove the horse between the field and the first music company,
whose captain was respectful space.

For a while he remained alone at the head of the troops. As approached from a mounted in Novara
white coat and joined him. Together they rode through the castle
gate.

Silently followed the passage of the companion of Pescara, and crossed the threshold of the room behind
him.

Pescara turned. "What do you want, Moncada?" he asked, and answered, "A conversation without
witnesses, you will not refuse me a second time. "

"I am at your service."

"Your excellency," began the knight, "I like your erlaubtet, said
the chancellor over there.

He was full of anxiety and pallor and protested with a thousand oaths
that he had come, and delay to obtain easier terms, but this had led
him to Novara.

Then talked he very confused as the bad conscience.

This man is an abyss of lies in which the view is lost. I am sure he is in the name of the league
here. "

"No different," said the general.

"And that he has offered you the lead of the same?"

"No different."

Now noise was in the hall. Ippolito aside throwing wild with frenzied gestures crazy eyes and rushed
to the Registrar. He was followed on the heels, both already armored, Bourbon and Del Guasto, whom
he met on the way and wanted to hold him back.

In desperation, he threw himself at the captain's feet, while Moncada
slowly in the background retreated.

"My Pescara," cried the frightened, "all the patience comes to an end, I can not torture the longer
tolerate. Every minute stretches me to the agonizing eternity. I
am undone.

Be merciful and give me your answer! "

Pescara replied calmly: "Forgive, Chancellor, if I have let you wait for my time. was not free,
but I just wanted to send for you. Your speech yesterday has occupied me because the fate
of a people is no small thing - but please, Sit ye, I can not speak, if your sign dareinreden so hard.
"

The Registrar desperately grabbed the back of a chair.

"I have weighed the matter ... but, Chancellor, we first let everything personal, thinks away
of yourself and of me, the question remains: Worth Italy at that hour, the freedom and it is
good, as it is now constituted, to receive and maintain? I think so. " The general spoke slowly,
as if he was checking his every word on the scales of justice.

"Twice, freedom has lived in Italy, at different times.

In the early Roman Republic, as the welfare state was all.

Then in those beautiful communities, Milan, Pisa and the others. But now it is on the threshold
of servitude, because it's going on and single all honor and all virtue. Since no one can save
and help neither a man nor a God. How lost freedom is recovered? Due to a coming from the depths
of the people And storm surge of moral forces. About how they are now conquering faith in Germania
with the flames of hatred and love.

But here! Where in Italy is, I'm not saying faith and conscience, as the old for you Things are, but
the legal sense and conviction? Not even honor and shame is still you, only the naked selfishness.
What vermöget you Italians? Seduction, betrayal and assassination. What are you while I count?
On the favor of the facts on the dice of chance, the play of Policy. So, so no nation is founded
renewed. Verily I say unto you, Chancellor "- and Pescara raised his voice as to a verdict - "your
Italy is arbitrary and fantastic, like yourself and your conspiracy it! "

"Truth," was heard the voice of Moncada.

"Even the hero, Morone, the habet their chosen you, devoid of life."

But this quiet last words were shouted at Pescara. Morone had his head quickly turned and saw
the knight his attack as he saw the Spaniard revealed, fell he in a rage, his features distorted,
and he raged like a madman. "False and cruel! Wrong and cruel! Oh, I beaten with blindness! "Then
overwhelmed by mindless vengeance, he shouted against Moncada: "Know it, knight, this" - he
pointed to the commander - "is the culprit! Because of him the whole conspiracy! I am his creature,
and now I sacrifice the monster! "

Now the Duke jumped in, with the Del Guasto standing behind the passionate
Pescara Occurs enjoyed.

"Saute, Paillasse mon ami, pour tout le monde saute!" he taunted Morone. "Yes, if we had not
listened to, we two BWA, behind the red curtain and the golden Tassel there! I must tell the time,
treasure, it's hilarious. Did not hear you, I auspfiff you? "Then, suddenly becoming serious,
he turned down the view of Moncada, put his hand on his chest, emphasizing that: "In my royal
blood, has the commander at that hour is not yesterday's hair fluctuated widely in his honor
and loyalty! "

Morone was destroyed. Del Guasto laid hands on him and pulled him away. "Lord Chancellor" he
scoffed, "you bedanket will save you the torture our listening." The Duke was, a pleading
gesture Pescara obedience.

"Your excellency," began Moncada, "here I am convinced. This Ye always just your game driven
perhaps condescending, as is seemly for Spanish pride. With such a man conspired no Pescara.
But, your excellency, in his impotent rage, this mendacious Spoken truth when he accused you, the author
of Italian conspiracy be.

Not the author, but the beneficiaries. Do not discouraging habet, you nourished and raised.
It was easy to say a decisive word, and to halt their support with an indignant and highly
visible gesture. This did not you habet. It defers as a dark and interpretable form. "

"Knight", Pescara interrupted him, "Do not I have to give account of my tuna and leave, but only
my Emperor. "

"Your king," said Moncada. "To call it, you commanded the respect, because a King of Spain is more
than the emperor.

And the grandson of Ferdinand is a King of Spain be. Karl develops slowly, and under different
competing influences, but his Spanish blood is growing in strength and his German soak up the
last drop. He loathed the heresy, and his piety will make him a Spaniard. "He said this with
a quiet smile and enthusiastic eyes shine.

"Avalos," he continued, "your fathers who fought for the faith against the Muslim nations,
sailed up your ancestor with that of Alfonso in Naples.

Return to your origins!

The noble blood flows in your veins.

As you can see that the great loves procrastinating between the Spanish world of thought and
the wretched Italian machinations?

Ours is the Earth, as she obeyed once the Romans. See the wonderful ways of God: Castile and
Aragon married, Burgundy and Flanders acquired the empire gained
a discovered and conquered new world, and all that dominant, people
with a steeled, a blessed, twofold in blood baptized heathen sword!

What gave you that misery, Spain gives you a thousand times: Treasures, country, fame, and
- heaven!

Because we are fighting for the heavens and the Catholic belief that a church rule on earth. Otherwise,
God became man would be in vain. Foreseeing, as in these days Hell defile the Holy See and its
last heresy, the Germanic monk will spew, he created the Spaniards,
to clean those and to crush them.

Therefore there giving us the world to prey, because everything on earth has divine purpose.
I have long discussions minded in my Sicilian monastery and believed to be the Chosen One himself
well for this spiritual army. Since it was shown to me in a vision, the other, the sage. I
was unworthy of such honor, because of my sin, and stepped back into the world. "Pescara silent
and regarded the ecstatic.

"But I work as long as it is day. No year is up, I stood behind Ferdinand Cortez, because of
him on the mountains of the demon the golden battlements of Mexico showed how it to you now, Pescara,
Italy shows. This hand held back the stumbling, and now I extend it against you, Pescara you'll
be a son of Spain, which is the world and in the glory suspended Catholic Ferdinand protected. "

Now the captain broke his silence and angry, "Give me those do not, he gave me the Father killed!
"

Moncada sighed heavily.

"You repent?"

The Knights beat his chest crushed and murmured, saying to himself: "My Sin ... my sin ... unconfessed and
non-fed! "

Since Pescara guessed that this Fromme not regret his murder, but
that he accomplished a spiritually unprepared.

"Get away from me!" he commanded.

Moncada stepped up to the threshold, as if waking from a dream. Then he gathered and said, "Excuse
me, your excellency I was absent even a sober word I know!.. Your goal is not. Still, I am
not your enemy. Either way you will take Milan. This first step does
not contain any fidelity or infidelity.

I expect Euern second, if your Duke absetzet and punish the outrage.

Do you not there, so you betray your king and Spain! " And he disappeared.

Pescara, retired and enjoying food. Then he received before his blazing fire, the lack of an autumn
evening was not allowed, the Duke of Del Guasto and gave them his final orders. The rest of
the time he used to sift his secret papers: what is a powerful turns, a world of wickedness.
He destroyed most of it throwing in the kitchen: he did not want anyone spoiling. Even the secret
letter from the Emperor should Disappear, but his ashes mingle with the rest themselves. He had a glowing
Brazier bring in the blue flame, he burned the letter of his Emperor. When he had finished his
candles had already eaten half: it went to midnight. Pescara crossed his arms over his chest
and fell into such a deep sense that he steps an entrant is not heard. Then he said to him: "What is
your goal, Avalos?" He saw Moncada.

The general put his hand in the extinguished coal basin, she closed and held it against Moncada.
"My goal?" he said and opened his hand: dust and ashes.

Now Drommetenrufe rang through the castle. Drum roll followed. Everything was moving. The general
could be arming of his servants. When he with flickering torch light on the spears and armor, reflected
the paved hall entered the ground floor, He saw his black animal, which, harnessed precious, with
impatient hooves spark proposed from the floor, next to a litter with two light trotters. Both he
had ordered the choice of reserving the moment. With a sigh, he mounted the litter, its starting
again Pains to conceal it, and disappeared through the gate, while his despised war- behaved
angrily and the groom, who wanted to climb it, threw off. It was his Lord be tracked single.

Now also the Chancellor was taken captive. Spanish soldiers surrounded him, robbed him of his
chain, his rings, his bag and put him not to be noble mule from the Milanese stables, but its
back on a poor donkey whose tail she moved to her cruel nature of the bound hands. Then it went
through the Tor under a hellish laughter, in which the Chancellor
of despair with matched.

Last Chapter

Meanwhile, lived in the castle of fortune from a dwelling to a fear has become Castles of Milan
Francesco Sforza miserable days and worse nights, helpless and clueless calling for his chancellor.
He had received the visit Del Guastos, who came to him to report,
his general had received before the deadline expiring chancellor of
Milan, but that he, stupid instead of the expected concessions in
the name of sovereignty as well as criminal Openings made that determine
the general, without delay, by the way in the spirit of his first
threat to march on Milan, and to proceed against the sovereign as
a traitor.

Del Guasto had gloated over the trembling of the Duke and vanished from the city. While the imperial
forces approached in rapid marches, and even then she already were on the walls of Milan in sight,
had the faint-hearted between passing and defense fluctuated, but was then a few brave Lombard
nobles to the path of honor torn and finally transformed himself in a warlike mood, that he
by virtue of his grandfather's blood was not completely incapacitated.

He left with an artfully forged Armor clothe and put a helmet on a beautiful embossed on the weak
Head.

It is a fact that he was standing in the large hill, at the moment because its Pescara Troops led
the assault against it. In a trembling voice told the Duke the fire of his exquisite guns.
As the smoke cleared, the field was covered with Spaniards. Between Dead and wounded exceeded
Pescara, a few more besides and still unmatched by the many under the leadership of Del Guastos
stormy pursuing him. He had no armor. The helmet he was torn from his head, and his dark cloak
fluttered in tatters. In flaming red Dress, with calm and steady steps, he went far ahead, a gleaming
two-handed sword swinging.

It was as steps of the strangler's death in person against the hill, and since there at the same
moment the bad news spread, the Borbone had used the south gate and Leyva storms from the north
gate, grabbed the pale fright of the crew. The re- charged pieces were left unresolved, the main
people who threw themselves against the Furchtbetörten, were trampled,
and the panicked tore the Duke away with it.

As he returned to his palace, with wandering steps walked into the
throne room, see, there fell from his eyes goldbrokatene and worked
with lions and eagles clothing of the canopy together.

In the general confusion, the duke had upholsterer sneaked into the room and eased the gem to
steal it was, but before to the approaching roar escaped empty-handed. frightened by the bad
omen The Duke threw a chair in despair and covered his face with both hands, his lot and waiting
for the winner.

This was not a long wait on themselves.

A short noise - the loyal palace guard Swiss was struck down or disarmed - and Pescara entered the
room, bareheaded and without a sword, behind him, Charles of Bourbon, helmeted, in full armor,
sword in a bloody fist. He was first of the storm on the ladder,
with the same set back in the moat was without But seriously hurting.

The Marquis bowed to his vanquished who roused himself from his seat. "Your Highness calm down,
"said Pescara." I'm not the enemy, but of sovereignty and again in duty to take care of your
liege lord, the Emperor. "

Sforza raised her eyes, and he in the face of superior scorn neither read nor punishment, but more participating
insight and gentleness, broke out of the untenable boy in tears and
stammered: "In my heart I am the majesty always been faithful, she
has no more devoted servant improve and vassal, but I was misguided
wretch was misled ... my hell Chancellor ... and armed resistance,
I have not ordered ... I was pushed, encountered ... of the Valabrega
and a few other gentlemen ... when all the apostles and martyrs, I
am not an Italian patriot, but the beleaguered prince in the most
impossible situation!

"

That total contrition of the grandson and great-grandson of two heroes of the commander seemed
embarrassed to touch.

But he did penance run free, but declined, apparently out of deference,
which finally becomes silent his hand, which sought to take this.

He was afraid of Destroyed completely kiss she wants.

During this self-abasement, and the bottom of his heart bitter tasting, sipping Charles Bourbon,
who had remained behind Pescara, slow trains in a full cup, he beckoned from a get-rich pages
and had allowed.

"Highness," said the captain, "I have full power.

If it is convinced of this that you become involved in a false and dangerous game, and when the
firm will can make in you, henceforth seek your salvation where it
is, the Emperor, and the Majesty to yield to never, I venture on my
responsibility, your pardon and to take your hand out grant.

Sovereignty must believe me, you drive in any case better with the emperor, as with the League.
"

Now he saw the unexpected mildness of the Moor's son suddenly made another suspicious as the
presumed fate of the suspect behaved like a ruse, and his hand hesitated, trembling. "Sovereign
right to trust," he said forcefully. "The Emperor and I keep my word."

Sforza shook hands, and the commander added, kindly: "I know the difficult situation the sovereignty
and - if I may say it - your unfortunate ill by a youth and weakened soul. It requires above
all the continuity. In the path of the emperor walking and persistent, you will be squandered
by any time-wave. I personally, "concluded he, his didacticism, in mitigation, in an almost affectionate
tone, "was the sovereignty fed than ever, from you for my role models, your two wonderful ancestors,
although I am both, "joked he, "have stolen some sleep in my youth, such a stimulus and spike
is masculinity and magnanimity. "

Francesco Sforza comforted that
this friendship, but still anxiously asked: "And I remain Duke? Your
word, Pescara?

"Unbreakable. If I do something about the Emperor
can, and if your vermöget it, your soul to fix. "

"And my chancellor
nothing happens?"

"I do not think so, Your Highness," promised Pescara.

"He
is my minister?"

The general could not get over a smile on the inseparability
of this couple. "Your Highness forgets that you just Girolamo Morone
called the most destructive of all Guides added. I recommend sovereignty,
from the Imperial Majesty for this difficult office a others and to
ask wiser heads. There is that in Italy, it need not be a Spaniard.
"

"No way, Your Highness! Your Registrar to get out not!" mingled
now the Bourbon conversation. "The Helena is my booty."

Francesco
Sforza stared at Bourbon with anxious eyes. "The here?" he groaned.
"He wants my Milan! He dreams of many more. Help me, Pescara powerful!
" 

Since blared Bourbon, as he destroys himself, with an angry union
are crystalline Glass on the marble floors that with shrill discord
zerfuhr in tatters. "Highness," he said, "There lies my principality
of Milan!"

While the pieces were flying, with a stepped Moncada Leyva,
from top to bottom with dust and blood stained. "Your excellency,"
began the knight, "I congratulate you on your current beautiful victory,
which, again gained full force, joins so many others. I held me in
the hall proper. But I heard you laughing and cups, and when that
arrived Leyva, has taken the north gate and also earned his trunk
I dared to enter, and I think the right time. Because I mean, here
is held court, and jurisdiction Bourbon has this treacherous Duke,
symbolically his deserved demise proclaimed. But not so stormy, Highness!
I think the captain is court-martialed together, which I take as a
member of the royal house and vote allowed. Of course, a temporary
court in anticipation of the decision from Madrid. "Pescara remained
cold. "So I do," he said. Repentance of this
remote sort is not at all appropriate to the case, and will not do. It may be a good thing
to forget and forgive; but it is altogether too easy a trick to forget and be forgiven.

The truth about Ireland is simply this: that the relations between England and Ireland are
the relations between two men who have to travel together, one of whom tried to stab the other
at the last stopping-place or to poison the other at the last inn. Conversation may be courteous,
but it will be occasionally forced. The topic of attempted murder, its examples in history
and fiction, may be tactfully avoided in the sallies; but it will be occasionally present in
the thoughts. Silences, not devoid of strain, will fall from time to time. The partially murdered
person may even think an assault unlikely to recur; but it is asking too much, perhaps, to
expect him to find it impossible to imagine. And even if, as God grant, the predominant partner
is really sorry for his former manner of predominating, and proves it in some unmistakable
manner--as by saving the other from robbers at great personal risk--the victim may still be
unable to repress an abstract psychological wonder about when his companion first began to
feel like that. Now this is not in the least an exaggerated parable of the position of England
towards Ireland, not only in '98, but far back from the treason that broke the Treaty of Limerick
and far onwards through the Great Famine and after. The conduct of the English towards the
Irish after the Rebellion was quite simply the conduct of one man who traps and binds another,
and then calmly cuts him about with a knife. The conduct during the Famine was quite simply
the conduct of the first man if he entertained the later moments of the second man, by remarking
in a chatty manner on the very hopeful chances of his bleeding to death. The British Prime
Minister publicly refused to stop the Famine by the use of English ships. The British Prime
Minister positively spread the Famine, by making the half-starved populations of Ireland pay
for the starved ones. The common verdict of a coroner's jury upon some emaciated wretch was
"Wilful murder by Lord John Russell": and that verdict was not only the verdict of Irish public
opinion, but is the verdict of history. But there were those in influential positions in England
who were not content with publicly approving the act, but publicly proclaimed the motive. The
Times, which had then a national authority and respectability which gave its words a weight
unknown in modern journalism, openly exulted in the prospect of a Golden Age when the kind
of Irishman native to Ireland would be "as rare on the banks of the Liffey as a red man on
the banks of the Manhattan." It seems sufficiently frantic that such a thing should have been
said by one European of another, or even of a Red Indian, if Red Indians had occupied anything
like the place of the Irish then and since; if there were to be a Red Indian Lord Chief Justice
and a Red Indian Commander-in-Chief, if the Red Indian Party in Congress, containing first-rate
orators and fashionable novelists, could have turned Presidents in and out; if half the best
troops of the country were trained with the tomahawk and half the best journalism of the capital
written in picture-writing, if later, by general consent, the Chief known as Pine in the Twilight,
was the best living poet, or the Chief Thin Red Fox, the ablest living dramatist. If that were
realised, the English critic probably would not say anything scornful of red men; or certainly
would be sorry he said it. But the extraordinary avowal does mark what was most peculiar in
the position. This has not been the common case of misgovernment. It is not merely that the
institutions we set up were indefensible; though the curious mark of them is that they were
literally indefensible; from Wood's Halfpence to the Irish Church Establishment. There can
be no more excuse for the method used by Pitt than for the method used by Pigott. But it differs
further from ordinary misrule in the vital matter of its object. The coercion was not imposed
that the people might live quietly, but that the people might die quietly. And then we sit
in an owlish innocence of our sin, and debate whether the Irish might conceivably succeed in
saving Ireland. We, as a matter of fact, have not even failed to save Ireland. We have simply
failed to destroy her.

It is not possible to reverse this judgment or to take away a single count from it. Is there,
then, anything whatever to be said for the English in the matter? There is: though the English
never by any chance say it. Nor do the Irish say it; though it is in a sense a weakness as
well as a defence. One would think the Irish had reason to say anything that can be said against
the English ruling class, but they have not said, indeed they have hardly discovered, one quite
simple fact--that it rules England. They are right in asking that the Irish should have a say
in the Irish government, but they are quite wrong in supposing that the English have any particular
say in English government. And I seriously believe I am not deceived by any national bias,
when I say that the common Englishman would be quite incapable of the cruelties that were committed
in his name. But, most important of all, it is the historical fact that there was another England,
an England consisting of common Englishmen, which not only certainly would have done better,
but actually did make some considerable attempt to do better. If anyone asks for the evidence,
the answer is that the evidence has been destroyed, or at least deliberately boycotted: but
can be found in the unfashionable corners of literature; and, when found, is final. If anyone
asks for the great men of such a potential democratic England, the answer is that the great
men are labelled small men, or not labelled at all; have been successfully belittled as the
emancipation of which they dreamed has dwindled. The greatest of them is now little more than
a name; he is criticised to be underrated and not to be understood; but he presented all that
alternative and more liberal Englishry; and was enormously popular because he presented it.
In taking him as the type of it we may tell most shortly the whole of this forgotten tale.
And, even when I begin to tell it, I find myself in the presence of that ubiquitous evil which
is the subject of this book. It is a fact, and I think it is not a coincidence, that in standing
for a moment where this Englishman stood, I again find myself confronted by the German soldier.

The son of a small Surrey farmer, a respectable Tory and churchman, ventured to plead against
certain extraordinary cruelties being inflicted on Englishmen whose hands were tied, by the
whips of German superiors; who were then parading in English fields their stiff foreign uniforms
and their sanguinary foreign discipline. In the countries from which they came, of course,
such torments were the one monotonous means of driving men on to perish in the dead dynastic
quarrels of the north; but to poor Will Cobbett, in his provincial island, knowing little but
the low hills and hedges around the little church where he now lies buried, the incident seemed
odd--nay, unpleasing. He knew, of course, that there was then flogging in the British army
also; but the German standard was notoriously severe in such things, and was something of an
acquired taste. Added to which he had all sorts of old grandmotherly prejudices about Englishmen
being punished by Englishmen, and notions of that sort. He protested, not only in speech, but
actually in print. He was soon made to learn the perils of meddling in the high politics of
the High Dutch militarists. The fine feelings of the foreign mercenaries were soothed by Cobbett
being flung into Newgate for two years and beggared by a fine of £1000. That small incident
is a small transparent picture of the Holy Alliance; of what was really meant by a country,
once half liberalised, taking up the cause of the foreign kings. This, and not "The Meeting
of Wellington and Blucher," should be engraved as the great scene of the war. From this intemperate
Fenians should learn that the Teutonic mercenaries did not confine themselves solely to torturing
Irishmen. They were equally ready to torture Englishmen: for mercenaries are mostly unprejudiced.
To Cobbett's eye we were suffering from allies exactly as we should suffer from invaders. Boney
was a bogey; but the German was a nightmare, a thing actually sitting on top of us. In Ireland
the Alliance meant the ruin of anything and everything Irish, from the creed of St. Patrick
to the mere colour green. But in England also it meant the ruin of anything and everything
English, from the Habeas Corpus Act to Cobbett.

After this affair of the scourging, he wielded his pen like a scourge until he died. This terrible
pamphleteer was one of those men who exist to prove the distinction between a biography and
a life. From his biographies you will learn that he was a Radical who had once been a Tory.
From his life, if there were one, you would learn that he was always a Radical because he was
always a Tory. Few men changed less; it was round him that the politicians like Pitt chopped
and changed, like fakirs dancing round a sacred rock. His secret is buried with him; it is
that he really cared about the English people. He was conservative because he cared for their
past, and liberal because he cared for their future. But he was much more than this. He had
two forms of moral manhood very rare in our time: he was ready to uproot ancient successes,
and he was ready to defy oncoming doom. Burke said that few are the partisans of a tyranny
that has departed: he might have added that fewer still are the critics of a tyranny that has
remained. Burke certainly was not one of them. While lashing himself into a lunacy against
the French Revolution, which only very incidentally destroyed the property of the rich, he
never criticised (to do him justice, perhaps never saw) the English Revolution, which began
with the sack of convents, and ended with the fencing in of enclosures; a revolution which
sweepingly and systematically destroyed the property of the poor. While rhetorically putting
the Englishman in a castle, politically he would not allow him on a common. Cobbett, a much
more historical thinker, saw the beginning of Capitalism in the Tudor pillage and deplored
it; he saw the triumph of Capitalism in the industrial cities and defied it. The paradox he
was maintaining really amounted to the assertion that Westminster Abbey is rather more national
than Welbeck Abbey. The same paradox would have led him to maintain that a Warwickshire man
had more reason to be proud of Stratford-on-Avon than of Birmingham. He would no more have
thought of looking for England in Birmingham than of looking for Ireland in Belfast.

The prestige of Cobbett's excellent literary style has survived the persecution of his equally
excellent opinions. But that style also is underrated through the loss of the real English
tradition. More cautious schools have missed the fact that the very genius of the English tongue
tends not only to vigour, but specially to violence. Is he still alive?

"

The chancellor knew who said Pescara. "He's starving, forgotten and despised," he replied with Shame,
"our biggest spirit."

"Deservedly. There are political principles, their importance for cool heads and wise Hands, but
which are destructive and reprehensible when they pronounce a naughty mouth or writing down a
criminal pen. But these are generalities, and everything would come to the application. How do you
imagine, for example, Chancellor, the matter of fact, my treason? " This opened his mouth as
if he had to talk inexhaustible. As he gently touched Pescara with a finger. "Gently, gently!"
he warned. "Now you enter a narrow and vary Brett: it could come that I would have to up your
speech as conspirators lay in chains . Let Do not say in your own name, I advise you, but you
have let a mask like you love her, and why not that of missing Florence secretary, whether he still
among us, or even walk in the spirit realm? Speech, Niccolò Machiavelli! I will silent and listen
with admiration and perhaps you will prove that you are a statesman
still possess much too much imagination.

Oh, I will criticize you, my Niccolò! But to begin. "

This continued joking tone of the commander insulted the Chancellor,
and he rebelled against: "Now the game is not for an end to Decrease
the actor, who was his.

Life dares to save his country! Pescara, I beg your serious! "

"For serious?

So be it!" replied the captain, closing his eyes as if to listen better. Now the chancellor
for a moment startled by the severity of pallor and emaciated countenance. But he was determined.

"There
is no evil, your excellency," he began, "what have you reported to the emperor, and it is good
that You get it as long as possible to trust yourself and not be
Expound, When the pope and the league will have adopted its manifesto.

By now, you fixed your Positions sights and your army.

"Pescara frowned.

"Leyva has to go," demanded the Chancellor.

Pescara counted on the fingers.

"What expects you, Pescara? asked the puzzled Chancellor.

He replied calmly: "Must go Leyva on it, so can not my main German people remain live, as they cling to the
emperor and empire. Their heads must fall. Or poison I hospitable in a drink? What do you advise,
Chancellor? "

Morone turned pale.

"And what I do with my Spanish noblemen? Let me kill her, too?"

"The Castilian," Morone said with a beating heart, "probably fall back to the emperor. The
others you verlocket with infinite spoils. You can not resist, least
of all the Neapolitan Aragonese.

I know this race: it is like the robber hero of the New World. Thinks only your Del Guasto,
what a monster! "

Pescara did not argue.

"Your commons, however, who are from all over
the earth melted, your beherrschet by your steadfast soul and through
your iron discipline, not to mention a regular pay, as it could give
the emperor never belong to you but now all Treasures of Italy. And
you erlittet a loss of people, so you replenish the army in the Swiss,
who now rent anywhere, since they lack of leadership and a State your
thoughts already gained position in the world and its foreign policy
has squandered. "

"Too bad", Pescara talking to himself. He had a
kind of affection for the Swiss, he twice overcome and by which he
at Bicocca, with an especially its raging storm passes invented position
of the gun, in a few minutes a full foolhardy Thousands had destroyed. But Dickens was narrower than Cobbett, not by any
fault of his own, but because in the intervening epoch of the triumph of Scrooge and Gradgrind
the link with our Christian past had been lost, save in the single matter of Christmas, which
Dickens rescued romantically and by a hair's-breadth escape. Cobbett was a yeoman; that is,
a man free and farming a small estate. By Dickens's time, yeomen seemed as antiquated as bowmen.
Cobbett was mediaeval; that is, he was in almost every way the opposite of what that word means
to-day. He was as egalitarian as St. Francis, and as independent as Robin Hood. Like that other
yeoman in the ballad, he bore in hand a mighty bow; what some of his enemies would have called
a long bow. But though he sometimes overshot the mark of truth, he never shot away from it,
like Froude. His account of that sixteenth century in which the mediaeval civilisation ended,
is not more and not less picturesque than Froude's: the difference is in the dull detail of
truth. That crisis was not the foundling of a strong Tudor monarchy, for the monarchy almost
immediately perished; it was the founding of a strong class holding all the capital and land,
for it holds them to this day. Cobbett would have asked nothing better than to bend his mediaeval
bow to the cry of "St. George for Merry England," for though he pointed to the other and uglier
side of the Waterloo medal, he was patriotic; and his premonitions were rather against Blucher
than Wellington. But if we take that old war-cry as his final word (and he would have accepted
it) we must note how every term in it points away from what the modern plutocrats call either
progress or empire. It involves the invocation of saints, the most popular and the most forbidden
form of mediævalism. The modern Imperialist no more thinks of St. George in England than he
thinks of St. John in St. John's Wood. It is nationalist in the narrowest sense; and no one
knows the beauty and simplicity of the Middle Ages who has not seen St. George's Cross separate,
as it was at Creçy or Flodden, and noticed how much finer a flag it is than the Union Jack.
And the word "merry" bears witness to an England famous for its music and dancing before the
coming of the Puritans, the last traces of which have been stamped out by a social discipline
utterly un-English. Not for two years, but for ten decades Cobbett has been in prison; and
his enemy, the "efficient" foreigner, has walked about in the sunlight, magnificent, and a
model for men. I do not think that even the Prussians ever boasted about "Merry Prussia."

VI--Hamlet and the Danes

In the one classic and perfect literary product that ever came out of Germany--I do not mean
"Faust," but Grimm's Fairy Tales--there is a gorgeous story about a boy who went through a
number of experiences without learning how to shudder. In one of them, I remember, he was sitting
by the fireside and a pair of live legs fell down the chimney and walked about the room by
themselves. Afterwards the rest fell down and joined up; but this was almost an anti-climax.
Now that is very charming, and full of the best German domesticity. It suggests truly what
wild adventures the traveller can find by stopping at home. But it also illustrates in various
ways how that great German influence on England, which is the matter of these essays, began
in good things and gradually turned to bad. It began as a literary influence, in the lurid
tales of Hoffmann, the tale of "Sintram," and so on; the revisualising of the dark background
of forest behind our European cities. That old German darkness was immeasurably livelier than
the new German light. The devils of Germany were much better than the angels. Look at the Teutonic
pictures of "The Three Huntsmen" and observe that while the wicked huntsman is effective in
his own way, the good huntsman is weak in every way, a sort of sexless woman with a face like
a teaspoon. But there is more in these first forest tales, these homely horrors. In the earlier
stages they have exactly this salt of salvation, that the boy does not shudder. They are made
fearful that he may be fearless, not that he may fear. As long as that limit is kept, the barbaric
dreamland is decent; and though individuals like Coleridge and De Quincey mixed it with worse
things (such as opium), they kept that romantic rudiment upon the whole. But the one disadvantage
of a forest is that one may lose one's way in it. And the one danger is not that we may meet
devils, but that we may worship them. In other words, the danger is one always associated,
by the instinct of folk-lore, with forests; it is enchantment, or the fixed loss of oneself
in some unnatural captivity or spiritual servitude. He
walked slowly away in conflicting thoughts.

While the three generals inside the war prepared, the vestibule was empty for a while and unguarded.
The Page Ippolito had sneaked over to the lady, whose arrival He had watched and admired the
beauty and affability he childlike. He was burning, to greet them and to offer his services. But
then populated the solemn Room with a funny society. The five silver gray wind chimes of the Constable,
foolish, very young animals had found any unguarded entrance to the castle and beschnoberten Now the
columns of the door, behind which they suspected their Lord. This race was a fashion thing. Then
came the Greyhound of the Marchese, a noble animal and a tireless runner, to see what was the matter,
and was not built by this reckless clan, which he is not in this
serious space seemed to belong and to which he manifested his displeasure
growling.

Behold, there appeared a delicate, graceful greyhound, a snow-white creature of the finest forms,
which bore on the shimmering silver collar inscribed "I belong to the Victoria Colonna. "First
received with joy and admiration, the toy was pretty soon a hunted and hunted deer, behind which
the whole youthful crowd yelping in Circles whirled around. Then came the Page jumped in,
took the property of the mistress, which he might have sent, and then, in the arms and fled there
from the riots, the wild chase dragging behind him, except the prudent runner of Pescara. At the same
moment Leyva came from the inner chamber and accelerated the general
flight, by the rearmost Constable said the little dog a kick that
it flew through the air and whimpering.

The gray-haired general had an angry red face and was of Pescara, who led, hardly hold back the hand.
"Leyva," said the Marchese, "I beg you, stay! Beherrschet you! I can not force you, against the Duke
to be just, but observed at least the forms! The Duke behaves admirably against you, with impeccable
courtesy, But you zoget him the grinning face of a farmer, and now you run away before our consultation
closed. This is not a behavior, as befits your position and your credit. " "I could no longer
endure the Traitors, Pescara! With every look, every movement I offended the proud man! Nothing but
contempt! His cold despises me, and his bows my sneer. I want to know where he gets the right to
look down on me. I am above him, despite his high birth, because my honor is pure, and I am
a faithful servant my king, but he has betrayed his own people! He is drawn, and his smooth face
nastier than my wound here! But not all the princes despise me, there is that which know my
worth. So this intelligent Moncada, with whom I traveled. The least I have appreciated his confidence.
"

Pescara was very serious. "Leyva," he said, "You Give me the satisfaction that I always you have
taken seriously. I do not ask for the birth, but I take people how I did try. Habet me your
ever seen or invented little arrogant thinking? You nothing against me, old, "he said confidentially,"
we know each other. "He was looking with the light gray eyes of the Mitfeldherrn, who but him, his
head lowering escaped, obstinate. "Nothing," Leyva grumbled, "except that you keep friendship
with the other but I am in a hurry. Highness send me the instructions after. I like like to
own writing. Leyva is doing his duty.

Count on it! "

The commander let him go and thoughtfully stroked the fine head of his greyhounds, he had come to
the same place in the hand.

Then he went back to his room where he and Bourbon Del Guasto in an excited conversation found,
probably for the Registrar, as they pointed with their eyes in the direction of the tower
rooms. The general smiled.

"Gentlemen," he said, "For ye have a wonderful speech this morning overheard, and - even more
wonderful - the speech I was not deceived, but you, my witnesses. My loyalty was firm, and
yours was shocked, I think: a triumph The chancellor did not intend to flatter him but may. "

Now he turned to Del with altered expression Guasto: "Don Juan, I saw your eyes greedy flames
of prey. Give thanks to me that I come to you not to words and Euern Lord, tell the emperor,
had. For this one, Don Juan, müsset the inviolable majesty Keep faith, if you are a criminal wollet.
Loyalty to the prince is the only Virtue, that you are capable at a pinch, and the last code of honor
that you left.

You will ennoble your terrible in their same ausübet against waste
and outrage, and Your instincts will serve the cruel earthly justice.

Take the well-intentioned as my Council, and now go and now avoids the eyes Donna Victoria. Your
vision is hateful to them, they can tolerate a murderer. "

"A murderer?" Don Juan rebelled.

. A murderer Kennet your sacrifice may not yet I call you: it is Julia, the granddaughter my Numa
Dati, died in Rome of a broken heart, and you are the one who killed her added. You did well, but that
does not lessen your offense at all.

Fear not, that it would appear you, she is immersed in the tranquility, leaving you the furies
of your Soul, sooner or later regret. "

Del Guasto turned pale, and his hair stood on end like a tangle of snakes. Not his That frightened
him, but the terrible judge seriousness of the general, whose destructive
power of punishment to come from beyond the grave seemed.

He escaped before the lightning shocked that eye.

"Family Affairs" said Bourbon. "But you know, Ferdinand, that the Chancellor me more than you
think, has excited? Despite his invective - he is the only one I not mind - he was beguiled by the
way, to me, completely, or rather, you got me infatuated, as you said I was your alter ego, and you
would give me Milan. You have made fun of me, and I have not understood the fun of stupid. "

"Forgive
me, Karl, I was curious whether the chancellor would keep the Duke faithful. But do me, Karl,
you too will remain nothing but the cause of the emperor. The decline of Italy is unstoppable,
it undermines itself you look upon the matter: Italy offers itself to me pleading and unconditionally,
with a semblance of truth and greatness, and yet it pulls me with perfect Malice the ground beneath
our feet to get me to force them to jump over the abyss.

I understand on such rumors and slander that sends me an overseer Madrid and listen. But why
is my enemy? Moncada Why? Although he will not touch me, and I will do my Day's work to finish,
and you, Karl, I will do what I can, my office and my Succession ... Is not it, Karl, you
are just in Italy? You do not torture? You press It does not have
the degree?

That you vow to me. Although they have not earned it to me. I know you: you go human to them ".

"Except
with the Holy Father, who has spoken ill of me. But, Ferdinand, what are you talking about?
You frighten me! We are the same age, and a ball can take before
smite you or both of us together.

This Moncada has come over you like a Frost, I saw you shudder.

What is between you? "

Now the sun was setting, and knocked gently at the door. The entering Ippolito used is pleading
to his Lord. "excellency wait let Madonna is not the table over there covered, and Madonna is awaiting
on the terrace, if they do not descend the stairs. "

"Go, my child, and tell her I'm coming."

"I do not," said Ippolito with graceful defiance, "or can be with
Grace Sovereignty again in an endless high political conversation,
and the sweet woman is forgotten.

"

The general was suffering the boy beside him, and Continuing the conversation with the Duke
to whose shoulder he had slung his arm confidentially, he used the Spanish language, of which
he knew she was not understood about the page. "What happened between me and Moncada is, Karl?
Something terrible, a suspicion that is my truth, for which I have no proof but when my conviction.
I think so I am sure that this Man killed my father. "He smoothed out the curls of the child,
with the innocent Eyes looked up to him.

"It was after the turn of the century and I do not like this one,
at least older.

My Father, a good commander and a better man than I, a loyal man, went to mission of the then
Viceroy, the great Gonsalvo, later the Spanish as cruel ingratitude learned to Barcelona,
​​where the old Ferdinand hofhielt indicated. There he saw the last Rungs of our Neapolitan royal
family, those unfortunate young man, who under the Ferdinand wary eye had faded, married to an infertile
woman. Guileless and unwise, as his father was - I tell you, there was no simple man - he was with
the dethroned prince in a sympathetic conversation, and then visited him at times in the palace. That
was enough to make him the king suspect, and suspicion is enough, to deny him his life.

I'll tell you the thing, as I have subsequently researched and brought together, as in reiferm and understanding
of acquired knowledge of human nature, meaning and significance for the past I won. It is
highly probable that the King himself called his victim, if even with half a word or a brief
gesture. The implementation of its secret spell but took a young man whom he had around him and
from which it was said that he be more natural Son was.

The young Moncada, no one else met my father, who came back from the prince, in a gallery of the
palace and fell upon him. No combat, but a murder, for the rights of the father was paralyzed by
an old wound. And Pescara was innocent, as I keep wrapped up, because nothing was further than
the upright intrigue and conspiracy. Is not that wicked? And perhaps thought the young Moncada
a duty to attend to and act as a good Christian because he obeyed the hint of a royal eyebrow. If
not disgusting? Is this okay with you, Karl?

"In France? That depends.

But no; not that simple. "

"After years, I had earned my spurs, I meet the Moncada in the tent of my Commander and father-of
Fabricius Colonna.

He hugs me, calls me his young Heroes, the rising star and the hope of Spain, and his gaze
slips with quiet Observation about my features. He assures me I am like my father, whom he had
known, and my blood freezes in your veins, because I had the certainty that I am the murderer
of Pescara caressing the poor think. "

"You let him go?"

"On the evening of that day I went to take his life or to let him take mine. He was gone. I could
not pursue it. Where I would have taken the time to always in tents
and in the middle of the decisions, as I live?

But the spirit of the murdered Father followed me everywhere.

Later I learned that I hated to throw in some monastery, a sin atone. He is beyond the sea, in Cuba,
re-emerged, where he Ferdinand rich possessions, gave the bold and accompanied Cortez to Mexico.
I think to to oversee the ambitious conqueror, for Moncada lives in the thoughts and plans
of his Father and in connection with those fanatical Spanish party
at the imperial court, which the Burgundians and the Dutch keep happily
balanced. returned by sea, He has a blessing in itself made it through
his hidden work of New Spain crown to have received and is in semi-dreaded
reputation, even with the emperor, his nephew.

Now he is in Italy to subdue me or to ruin. That's Moncada. "

"You know, Ferdinand," said Bourbon, who had listened attentively, "I would have long since like
to have done a favor.

I will avenge his father and at the same time you create the enemy of Neck? Not by assassination,
that's not my style, but controlled in a duel, to which I even find
a cause.

I do not compromise, because, almost without you connect, you give to: we fight French better
than her Spanish. You stay out of play, and protect me my royal birth. Will you? I am at your
service. "

Pescara answered with almost transfigured, blue eyes gleaming. "No. It's too late. I think differently
now and give the murderer of eternal justice.

"

Bourbon looked surprised.

Pescara but Ippolito took her hand and said, "Now we can Lady Victoria can not wait any longer.
"

He gave the Duke the lead. On the spiral staircase, he asked the boy: "The lady is dear to you
already so you've now seen for the first time? "

"She was like so good," said Ippolito, "and it looked like the sister I now see no longer want
"- bright tears trickled down the cheek of him -" because, like me Grandfather told in a Roman monastery,
where it has taken the vows. And she was usually so cheerful, the Juliet, but of course, in
recent times it is very quiet become. No matter how the sister buried
so young!

"He said that, while the open occurred.

"I beg to introduce me to enlighten the woman," asked the constable.

"Recently, I found opening a book that nature has formed the most glorious and then broke the
mold so that Victoria Colonna remain unique. Your Gonnet me the sight? "
They followed the long cypress course, and now they saw at some distance
a moving performance: a backward aspiring female figure tore himself
away from a man lay at her feet. At the same moment cried Ippolito:
"There is the evil sorcerer, He will do the lady a mischief, "and
rushed posthaste Donna Victoria to help, while the Chancellor of the
knees jumped and disappeared behind a laurel hedge.

The Liberated
hastened to meet the smiling husband with quick feet and with such
a young and powerful flush that Pescara thought he had never seen
her more beautiful. While her Garments flew, said not even out of
breath came. "A suppliant has surprised me and sworn to take his thing
in your lordship: he asks him not too long to decision to let wait,
as it consumed in doubt and expectation. "

"He has chosen well his
intercessor, Madonna," said the captain, "but all in good Time. Now
allowed that I am presenting you the Bourbon sovereignty. "

Victoria,
vividly as she was not hiding an expression of womanly participation.

The
Duke was not in the least noted that it had amused the kneeling Chancellor.
He bowed respectfully and kept fine and proudly out of respect for
Pescara and conscious its shameful glory, which never left him. Mystics from the beginning had made vows of peace--but they added to them vows
of poverty. Vows of poverty were not in the Cobdenite's line. Then, again, there was the positive
praise of Prussia, to which steadily worsening case the Carlyleans were already committed.
But beyond these, there was something else, a spirit which had more infected us as a whole.
That spirit was the spirit of Hamlet. We gave the grand name of "evolution" to a notion that
things do themselves. Our wealth, our insularity, our gradual loss of faith, had so dazed us
that the old Christian England haunted us like a ghost in whom we could not quite believe.
An aristocrat like Palmerston, loving freedom and hating the upstart despotism, must have looked
on at its cold brutality not without that ugly question which Hamlet asked himself--am I a coward?

We made dumb our anger and our honour; but it has not brought us peace.

VII--The Midnight of Europe

Among the minor crimes of England may be classed the shallow criticism and easy abandonment
of Napoleon III. The Victorian English had a very bad habit of being influenced by words and
at the same time pretending to despise them. They would build their whole historical philosophy
upon two or three titles, and then refuse to get even the titles right. The solid Victorian
Englishman, with his whiskers and his Parliamentary vote, was quite content to say that Louis
Napoleon and William of Prussia both became Emperors--by which he meant autocrats. His whiskers
would have bristled with rage and he would have stormed at you for hair-splitting and "lingo,"
if you had answered that William was German Emperor, while Napoleon was not French Emperor,
but only Emperor of the French. What could such mere order of the words matter? Yet the same
Victorian would have been even more indignant if he had been asked to be satisfied with an
Art Master, when he had advertised for a Master of Arts. His irritation would have increased
if the Art Master had promised him a sea-piece and had brought him a piece of the sea; or if,
during the decoration of his house, the same aesthetic humourist had undertaken to procure
some Indian Red and had produced a Red Indian.

The Englishman would not see that if there was only a verbal difference between the French
Emperor and the Emperor of the French, so, if it came to that, it was a verbal difference between
the Emperor and the Republic, or even between a Parliament and no Parliament. For him an Emperor
meant merely despotism; he had not yet learned that a Parliament may mean merely oligarchy.
He did not know that the English people would soon be made impotent, not by the disfranchising
of their constituents, but simply by the silencing of their members; and that the governing
class of England did not now depend upon rotten boroughs, but upon rotten representatives.
Therefore he did not understand Bonapartism. He did not understand that French democracy became
more democratic, not less, when it turned all France into one constituency which elected one
member. He did not understand that many dragged down the Republic because it was not republican,
but purely senatorial. He was yet to learn how quite corruptly senatorial a great representative
assembly can become. Yet in England to-day we hear "the decline of Parliament" talked about
and taken for granted by the best Parliamentarians--Mr. Balfour, for instance--and we hear
the one partly French and wholly Jacobin historian of the French Revolution recommending for
the English evil a revival of the power of the Crown. It seems that so far from having left
Louis Napoleon far behind in the grey dust of the dead despotisms, it is not at all improbable
that our most extreme revolutionary developments may end where Louis Napoleon began.

In other words, the Victorian Englishman did not understand the words "Emperor of the French."
The type of title was deliberately chosen to express the idea of an elective and popular origin;
as against such a phrase as "the German Emperor," which expresses an almost transcendental
tribal patriarchate, or such a phrase as "King of Prussia," which suggests personal ownership
of a whole territory. To treat the Coup d'état as unpardonable is to justify riot against despotism,
but forbid any riot against aristocracy. Yet the idea expressed in "The Emperor of the French"
is not dead, but rather risen from the dead. It is the idea that while a government may pretend
to be a popular government, only a person can be really popular. Indeed, the idea is still
the crown of American democracy, as it was for a time the crown of French democracy. The very
powerful official who makes the choice of that great people for peace or war, might very well
be called, not the President of the United States, but the President of the Americans. In Italy
we have seen the King and the mob prevail over the conservatism of the Parliament, and in Russia
the new popular policy sacramentally symbolised by the Czar riding at the head of the new armies.
But in one place, at least, the actual form of words exists; and the actual form of words has
been splendidly justified. One man among the sons of men has been permitted to fulfil a courtly
formula with awful and disastrous fidelity. Political and geographical ruin have written one
last royal title across the sky; the loss of palace and capital and territory have but isolated
and made evident the people that has not been lost; not laws but the love of exiles, not soil
but the souls of men, still make certain that five true words shall yet be written in the corrupt
and fanciful chronicles of mankind: "The King of the Belgians."

It is a common phrase, recurring constantly in the real if rabid eloquence of Victor Hugo,
that Napoleon III. was a mere ape of Napoleon I. That is, that he had, as the politician says,
in "L'Aiglon," "le petit chapeau, mais pas la tête"; that he was merely a bad imitation. Here were we
on our old playground, it was still the same bushes, between which we once gone astray were
as children, only their branches were still lower than it was in their way. We walked along the
wide walkways next to the graft, which is in the shade of the trees are wide and black dragged
on our side. We heard the faint plucking of the cattle, which on the other side the fen grazing
in the moonlight, and over there by the planting pipe sounded forth the chirping the tube sparrow,
the little fellows watch night. But soon I just listened to the noise the little feet that walked
some distance in front of me so easily.

In this secret sounds of the night suddenly invaded by the area of ​​the dike of her shrill
Reputation of a seabird, which then drove up through the air. As my ear was once awakened, so I
now heard from a distance the fire, the waves out there in the bright night, The Sheltering mysterious
deep rolled and tossed by the incoming tide the beach were. A feeling of desolation and loneliness
came over me, almost without knowing it, joined I Anne Lene's name
and stretched out both arms to her.

"Marx, what's the matter?" she cried, and turned to me.

"Here I am!"

"Nothing, Anne Lene," I said, "but give me your hand, I had forgotten the sea, because I suddenly
heard it! "

We stood in an open place in front of the old garden pavilion, with its doors open in the broken
fishing hung. The moon shone on Anne Lene's little hand, who believe quietly in the was. I had never seen
the moonlight on a Maedchenhand, and crept over me that Schauer, who from a desire for pleasure
and earth the painful feeling of transience is so wonderfully mixed. Involuntarily, I closed the
hand of the girl hard in the my, but with the fear that the youth
self, I looked at the same moment the ground.

But when Anne Lene her hand in silence in my left, I ventured at last, seeing up to her. She
had turned her face to me and gave me a sad, pitiful, I know more now not know whether to me or
to herself Then she withdrew from me gently and stood on the threshold the pavilion.

I looked through the gaps of the floor, the glint of the moon-lit water and passed Anne Lene dress
to hold her back. "Worry not, Marx," she said, adding she saw her and shook her slight figure
on the loose boards. "Wood and stone will not break me together. "- You went to the opposite window
and saw a while in the clear night addition, they lifted up his hand a piece of old wallpaper,
next to her on the wall hung down, and looked in the moonlight, the semi-extinct images. "It has
had its day" she said, "the beautiful Schaefer couples want to recommend. They may still gradually
be noticed that the clean, white gentlemen and ladies so teased one by one have failed, that she
once used for summer time so lively society .-- Once considered "
and she let the voice fall, as they talk in a dream, "once I am still
with it been, but I still was a little kid, Wiebe has told me many
times afterwards .-- Then, if everything together!

I can not believe it, Marx, and they have me so left all alone. "

I felt as if she could continue talking not so. "Let's go into the house," I said, "the other
will soon be back to the city. "

Do not listen to me, she let the arms fall down at her dress and said slowly: "He has not been
so wrong, and whoever gets the daughter of such a home!"

I felt like I shot the tears in his eyes. "Oh, Anne Lene," I cried
and appeared the steps leading to the pavilion, "I - I get it Give
me your hand, I know the way back to the world! " 

But Anne Lene
leaned his body and made his arms a hasty defensive movement after
me down. "No," she cried, and it was a mortal fear in her voice, "you
do not Marx; remains! It wears us both not. " Palmerston called it "the peace
that passeth all understanding": but the profanity of that hilarious old heathen was nearer
the mark than he knew: there were really present some of those deep things which he did not
understand. To quarrel with the Pope, but to compromise with him, was an instinct with the
Bonapartes; an instinct no Anglo-Saxon could be expected to understand. They knew the truth;
that Anti-Clericalism is not a Protestant movement, but a Catholic mood. And after all the
English Liberals could not get their own Government to risk what the French Government had
risked; and Napoleon III. might well have retorted on Palmerston, his rival in international
Liberalism, that half a war was better than no fighting. Swinburne called Villafranca "The
Halt before Rome," and expressed a rhythmic impatience for the time when the world

  "Shall ring to the roar of the lion
  Proclaiming Republican Rome."

But he might have remembered, after all, that it was not the British lion, that a British poet
should have the right to say so imperiously, "Let him roar again. Let him roar again."

It is true that there was no clear call to England from Italy, as there certainly was from
Denmark. The great powers were not bound to help Italy to become a nation, as they were bound
to support the unquestioned fact that Denmark was one. Indeed the great Italian patriot was
to experience both extremes of the English paradox, and, curiously enough, in connection with
both the two national and anti-German causes. For Italy he gained the support of the English,
but not the support of England. Not a few of our countrymen followed the red shirt; but not
in the red coat. And when he came to England, not to plead the cause of Italy but the cause
of Denmark, the Italian found he was more popular with the English than any Englishman. He
made his way through a forest of salutations, which would willingly have turned itself into
a forest of swords. But those who kept the sword kept it sheathed. For the ruling class the
valour of the Italian hero, like the beauty of the Danish Princess, was a thing to be admired,
that is enjoyed, like a novel--or a newspaper. I had that, years ago, and carefully considered, but they are blurry
to me again, except for a few details. For example, the person with his hair, which recoils from
a mirror - "

"What he sees the threats of today," she added excitedly.

"And then the Caryatid, squeezed by an enormous load, the short, square,
miserable creature!

The ugliest woman without question, as you are the best - "

"A raped woman, a subjugated, a slave -"

"Now I also dive the prophet again: the bald Zechariah, or whoever it may be a Leg up, one down, the
scolding Ezekiel in his turban, Daniel writing, writing, writing.

The Sibyl: the bent old man with a hawk nose, the glowing eyes in a tiny Book deepened, with
the neighbor, the oil can be poured into the dying light, and the
most beautiful of all, the young people with the Delphic tripod.

All in frenzied activity. What is this storm? What they preach and prophesy? "

As Victoria said in flaming enthusiasm when she was sitting in the rate of the prophets: "They
lament the servitude of Italy and proclaim the coming Savior and Redeemer!"

"No," Pescara judged severely, "the hour of salvation is past preach. Not grace them, but the court.
"

Victoria shook, but again was the punitive Ernst from the trains vanished Pescara. "Let us
leave those prophetic chapel," he said, flattering, "and an art that scares and shaken. I, however,
you must not have meant, since you a Saviour, Italy language, although I of course already possess
the side wound, "he concluded with one of those bitter Jokes that
were peculiar to him.

All the tenderness Victories overflowing because Pescara called them wound which her days and
was busy nights, until he wrote to her that it had closed. The loving Woman embraced him with
his left hand, and with her right hand she stroked his reddish blond, front slightly curly hair
down over his forehead, so that, at the traffic light and blissful in their vicinity a very
youthful appearance won.

She lost a memory of a spent together, not too distant day.

It was near Taranto, on one of their possessions.

There they were, of course, only after the complete destruction of a scorching sun harvest,
in addition to the evening sky burn up their resorted to more vigorous reapers sickle and each with
its sheaf bound. Again they saw the captain casually lying on his own, while the reapers girl, slightly
improvising a new cantilena taught, modeled on the common there in the south, then the young people
to repeat until the night was not tired. That evening brought they are now the commander to
mind.

It pleased him. "You know that song yet?" he asked.

"How could I?"

"Well,
there was a rhyme. Reaper and zither Otherwise, the song did not say
anything further, than that, as in the field, in heaven and sang the
sheaf be worn. The modest Song sounds like maybe the lips of the people,
and when I later you too long since fallen silent , and, frankly,
I like it better than me the other day to consummate sonnet, in which
are you talking to me solemnly. Quiet, Victoria! It is not yours.
I know that it is not of you is. "

They bristled with anger. But England went away sorrowful,
for she had great possessions.

VIII--The Wrong Horse

In another chapter I mentioned some of the late Lord Salisbury's remarks with regret, but I
trust with respect; for in certain matters he deserved all the respect that can be given to
him. His critics said that he "thought aloud"; which is perhaps the noblest thing that can
be said of a man. He was jeered at for it by journalists and politicians who had not the capacity
to think or the courage to tell their thoughts. And he had one yet finer quality which redeems
a hundred lapses of anarchic cynicism. He could change his mind upon the platform: he could
repent in public. He could not only think aloud; he could "think better" aloud. And one of
the turning-points of Europe had come in the hour when he avowed his conversion from the un-Christian
and un-European policy into which his dexterous Oriental master, Disraeli, had dragged him;
and declared that England had "put her money on the wrong horse." When he said it, he referred
to the backing we gave to the Turk under a fallacious fear of Russia. But I cannot but think
that if he had lived much longer, he would have come to feel the same disgust for his long
diplomatic support of the Turk's great ally in the North. He did not live, as we have lived,
to feel that horse run away with us, and rush on through wilder and wilder places, until we
knew that we were riding on the nightmare.

What was this thing to which we trusted? And how may we most quickly explain its development
from a dream to a nightmare, and the hair's-breadth escape by which it did not hurl us to destruction,
as it seems to be hurling the Turk? It is a certain spirit; and we must not ask for too logical
a definition of it, for the people whom it possesses disown logic; and the whole thing is not
so much a theory as a confusion of thought. Its widest and most elementary character is adumbrated
in the word Teutonism or Pan-Germanism; and with this (which was what appeared to win in 1870)
we had better begin. The nature of Pan-Germanism may be allegorised and abbreviated somewhat thus:

The horse asserts that all other creatures are morally bound to sacrifice their interests to
his, on the specific ground that he possesses all noble and necessary qualities, and is an
end in himself. It is pointed out in answer that when climbing a tree the horse is less graceful
than the cat; that lovers and poets seldom urge the horse to make a noise all night like the
nightingale; that when submerged for some long time under water, he is less happy than the
haddock; and that when he is cut open pearls are less often found in him than in an oyster.
He is not content to answer (though, being a muddle-headed horse, he does use this answer also)
that having an undivided hoof is more than pearls or oceans or all ascension or song. He reflects
for a few years on the subject of cats; and at last discovers in the cat "the characteristic
equine quality of caudality, or a tail"; so that cats are horses, and wave on every tree-top
the tail which is the equine banner. She
obeyed. There was not much, a few lines, saying:

"My Pescara!

I am the one who has gained this power to my minister.

Ye might have many enemies.

Beware of Moncada. But I'm faithful to you, for I have prayed for you and saw an angel who gave
you by the hand. I trust you.

I am your king. "

Pescara smiled painfully. "Karl trusts too easily," he said. "This could bring him to grief for
another, as I am. But - strangely - he has seen my genius. "

"Now I call your god!" Victoria pleaded. "I implore you, Pescara call them to me!"

"I think because it is myself," he gasped hoarsely.

More difficult, he began to breathe, he moaned, he moaned, he groaned. A terrible spasm oppressed
his chest. He declined, with hand to his tormented heart langend on the ottoman and gasped for
breath. Since knelt Victoria is down beside him, held and supported him with her arms and
suffered with him. You Ippolito and wanted to call the boy after
his grandfather, the doctors send, he forbade it with a gesture.

At last he fell asleep, exhausted deeply after Victoria believed, had her he would die. Since
they are tears of saturated, they too fell asleep. Then the lights went out.

When Victoria woke up, her head lay on an empty pillow, and through the open window streamed
the morning air. She jumped up to find her husband and took him to the terrace walked up and
down and refreshes the slumber and was revived as new.

It was disbelief at the nightly violent war in her arms, he was like
a dream.

Since Pescara began: "Yesterday, my dear lady, your habet me the name of my genius asked and I feared
him utter before you. At last, you had me almost snatched my secret, because it is hard to take
away something beloved wife. As he himself appeared and touched me. You know him well, and
the dreaded name remain unspoken. No Tears! They shed their habet
yesterday.

But now I am now, where you desires of your to go, while I lead the
Emperor's army against Milan?

"

"How could you hide me so long, Ferdinand?"

"First of all - not long - I kept it to myself .. but no, I already
knew my fate evening at the Battle of Pavia.

With that of bloody winter sun, I'm set.

My Objective, and my days counted as certain as I should have been yours to darken prematurely?
You told me sometimes it is cruel to awaken a slumbering sweet, and did not suffer from it.
But I'm not cruel. "" You're it, "she said," otherwise you would not tell me bitterly disappointed,
but call me and let me take care of me. "

"No one could know it," he said.

"And your doctor? The know it had, and I was angry with him, that
he lied to me, as I he wrote and begged him to tell me the truth!
"

"The poor Numa!" said the general. "He's already unhappy enough
that he can not cure me can. He advised me then a long rest in Ischia,
but I told him, "It is in vain. But why all this? ... Where do you
intend to go to Victoria? "

"No, Ferdinand, speak! Concealment me
nothing!"

"There is nothing, I told him that the lung is punctured
and the heart suffers. Deadlines of me Numa! Pull me out in the summer
into autumn, until the first flakes! So much I need time to complete
my victory. And most of all, I said, keep my secret! No one know our
secret! It would triple the forces of the enemy and me and my army
spoil. Once again, silence! I want it! I commanded him ... And I was
simulating life, so good that I gave Italy the bridal ring, "he smiled."
And I will once more on horseback ! Sit But you, Victoria vow to me
- but no vow, you're doing it to please me - not uncalled nachzueilen
me my march through the cloud of dust and blood-soaked fields.
A vague but genuine soul does possess all peoples who boast of Teutonism; and has possessed
ourselves, in so far as we have been touched by that folly. Not a race, but rather a religion,
the thing exists; and in 1870 its sun was at noon. We can most briefly describe it under three
heads.

The victory of the German arms meant before Leipzic, and means now, the overthrow of a certain
idea. That idea is the idea of the Citizen. This is true in a quite abstract and courteous
sense; and is not meant as a loose charge of oppression. Its truth is quite compatible with
a view that the Germans are better governed than the French. In many ways the Germans are very
well governed. But they might be governed ten thousand times better than they are, or than
anybody ever can be, and still be as far as ever from governing. The idea of the Citizen is
that his individual human nature shall be constantly and creatively active in altering the
State. The Germans are right in regarding the idea as dangerously revolutionary. Every Citizen
is a revolution. That is, he destroys, devours and adapts his environment to the extent of
his own thought and conscience. This is what separates the human social effort from the non-human;
the bee creates the honey-comb, but he does not criticise it. The German ruler really does
feed and train the German as carefully as a gardener waters a flower. But if the flower suddenly
began to water the gardener, he would be much surprised. So in Germany the people really are
educated; but in France the people educates. The French not only make up the State, but make
the State; not only make it, but remake it. In Germany the ruler is the artist, always painting
the happy German like a portrait; in France the Frenchman is the artist, always painting and
repainting France like a house. No state of social good that does not mean the Citizen choosing
good, as well as getting it, has the idea of the Citizen at all. To say the Germanies are naturally
at war with this idea is merely to respect them and take them seriously: otherwise their war
on the French Revolution would be only an ignorant feud. It is this, to them, risky and fanciful
notion of the critical and creative Citizen, which in 1870 lay prostrate under United Germany--under
the undivided hoof.

Nevertheless, when the German says he has or loves freedom, what he says is not false. He means
something; and what he means is the second principle, which I may summarise as the Irresponsibility
of Thought. Within the iron framework of the fixed State, the German has not only liberty but
anarchy. Anything can be said although, or rather because, nothing can be done. Philosophy
is really free. "Observed and reported" he commanded.
Del Guasto wanted to hasten away, but shouted back: "One more thing: I hear Donna Victoria had
arrived at the gate and ask for the general. "

Since Bourbon stepped into the hall, just Leyva called the dungeon,
the torture and, after vervollständigtem Confessions, block and ax
for the pale Morone.

"On the torture!" moaned this.

"If it overcomes me like a blanket, so you will not other than blood and sweat to squeeze
out of me. I ausgebeichtet before the general. You are not cruel, Pescara! "

"Ugh, Leyva!" Bourbon said, sitting down again in the circle. "Will the Lord be the Twitching
face this crazy delight? I do not suffer.

I let my my Morone not twist. Tremble not, Girolamo! You will not curved hair: you'll be my Schreiber.
My gracious verdict is: Girolamo sitting in his house, and he was guarding, to him I would have
asked the Emperor. "

"I think that's enough," decided the general. "Morone has been three credible Witnesses, that I am
one myself. No unnecessary torture, but safe custody Two Voices against one. Take him, Your
Highness. I suspect that Girolamo Morone is transformed once again and in imperial service occurs.
"

As Morone unwise cried with joy at the gift of life and adopted torture, "Pescara, without you
is not Italy! This is over. Do with me what you want. I am the creature your generosity and
kindness ... And if there is to be further spoken, so may know, gentlemen,
and it includes everything other: the league has sprung the head of
holiness, as Athena the brow of Zeus ... "His tongue suddenly stood
still, as it is next to a considerable Man in a traveling dress saw,
who had just occurred.

Then he cried: "No one knows better as that one! "It was Guicciardini, whose views were current
in curious circles, but at last steadfastly adhere to the faces of the Pescara remained.

"I disturbing you, your excellency?" he said. "But I will be brief. I come by express mail from
of holiness, which this time would have sent another better. The holiness can Highness know they
have to the first customer of hostilities opened one of their most
intimate sent to Madrid to inform the emperor that they the alliance
of the Italian states has remained a stranger.

A Holy League was not found. The chief shepherd shudder at the Sword. "

"Hallelujah!" cried the Chancellor, to have made the joy of life and
completely intoxicated great appeared, the commander replied: "How,
precisely Guicciardin Morone has brought to light? that the League
is the work of holiness.

What is truth? "

"Both," replied Guicciardini. "My mission is focused and that's enough." He bowed and left the
room, but Bourbon, in the export of Satan, called the envoy of the Pope for: "Florence, tell
your lord, I will come to Rome, his truthfulness the kiss slippers, with a loud Lutherans and
Marranos, and at night I want my burning Candle upset that the sanctity of merging the light! "The pool,
which opened the unfortunate, rang shrilly against the arch of the dome and from the corners
of the room as if from the mouth of malicious Demons, so that Guicciardin looked around frightening. The
general had now the Chancellor off with his watch, either because
he thought it was unseemly to reveal the head of Christendom, or he
was tired of the human comedy.

As Guicciardini and the Registrar were out together, said he: "It
leads you to Block?

"

"Guard!"

"Slipped through? Incomparable! But how it came to pass in Novara"

"Oh, I came to sit on the donkey ... Pescara This is the riddle of the Sphinx ..."

"I guess, Chancellor, from his face. It carries the Hippocratic trains,
and I will maybe bring the holiness have a death notice. Do you remember
yet, Girolamo, I told you in the Vatican Gardens, possible from a
final obstacle in the Pescara's chest? When I talked literally true?
If the commander of Pavia received the death and has concealed it?
If we make an attempt not Baren led into temptation? "

The chancellor
struck his forehead: "You say that like Guicciardini, which I did!
did not understand me, the doctor of the general, knife Numa Dati,
as indicated in Novara. " And it has been truly urged
by all defenders of slavery that, if history has merely a material test, the material condition
of the subordinate under slavery tends to be good rather than bad. When I once pointed out
how precisely the "model village" of a great employer reproduces the safety and seclusion of
an old slave estate, the employer thought it quite enough to answer indignantly that he had
provided baths, playing-grounds, a theatre, etc., for his workers. He would probably have thought
it odd to hear a planter in South Carolina boast that he had provided banjos, hymn-books, and
places suitable for the cake-walk. Yet the planter must have provided the banjos, for a slave
cannot own property. And if this Germanic sociology is indeed to prevail among us, I think
some of the broad-minded thinkers who concur in its prevalence owe something like an apology
to many gallant gentlemen whose graves lie where the last battle was fought in the Wilderness;
men who had the courage to fight for it, the courage to die for it and, above all, the courage
to call it by its name.

With the acceptance by England of the German Insurance Act, I bring this sketch of the past
relations of the two countries to an end. I have written this book because I wish, once and
for all, to be done with my friend Professor Whirlwind of Prussia, who has long despaired of
really defending his own country, and has fallen back upon abusing mine. He has dropped, amid
general derision, his attempt to call a thing right when even the Chancellor who did it called
it wrong. But he has an idea that if he can show that somebody from England somewhere did another
wrong, the two wrongs may make a right. Against the cry of the Roman Catholic Poles the Prussian
has never done, or even pretended to do, anything but harden his heart; but he has (such are
the lovable inconsistencies of human nature) a warm corner in his heart for the Roman Catholic
Irish. He has not a word to say for himself about the campaign in Belgium, but he still has
many wise, reproachful words to utter about the campaign in South Africa. I propose to take
those words out of his mouth. I will have nothing to do with the fatuous front-bench pretensions
that our governors always govern well, that our statesmen are never whitewashed and never in
need of whitewash. The only moral superiority I claim is that of not defending the indefensible.
I most earnestly urge my countrymen not to hide behind thin official excuses, which the sister
kingdoms and the subject races can easily see through. We can confess that our crimes have
been as mountains, and still not be afraid of the present comparison. There may be, in the
eyes of some, a risk in dwelling in this dark hour on our failures in the past: I believe profoundly
that the risk is all the other way. I believe that the most deadly danger to our arms to-day
lies in any whiff of that self-praise, any flavour of that moral cowardice, any glimpse of
that impudent and ultimate impenitence, that may make one Boer or Scot or Welshman or Irishman
or Indian feel that he is only smoothing the path for a second Prussia. I have passed the great
part of my life in criticising and condemning the existing rulers and institutions of my country:
I think it is infinitely the most patriotic thing that a man can do. I have no illusions either
about our past or our present. I think our whole history in Ireland has been a vulgar and ignorant
hatred of the crucifix, expressed by a crucifixion. I think the South African War was a dirty
work which we did under the whips of moneylenders. I think Mitchelstown was a disgrace; I think
Denshawi was a devilry.

Yet there is one part of life and history in which I would assert the absolute spotlessness
of England. In one department we wear a robe of white and a halo of innocence. Long and weary
as may be the records of our wickedness, in one direction we have done nothing but good. Whoever
we may have wronged, we have never wronged Germany. Again and again we have dragged her from
under the just vengeance of her enemies, from the holy anger of Maria Teresa, from the impatient
and contemptuous common sense of Napoleon. We have kept a ring fence around the Germans while
they sacked Denmark and dismembered France. And if we had served our God as we have served
their kings, there would not be to-day one remnant of them in our path, either to slander or
to slay us.

IX--The Awakening of England

In October 1912 silent and seemingly uninhabited crags and chasms in the high western region
of the Balkans echoed and re-echoed with a single shot. It was fired by the hand of a king--real
king, who sat listening to his people in front of his own house (for it was hardly a palace),
and who, in consequence of his listening to the people, not unfrequently imprisoned the politicians.
It is said of him that his great respect for Gladstone as the western advocate of Balkan freedom
was slightly shadowed by the fact that Gladstone did not succeed in effecting the bodily capture
of Jack the Ripper. This simple monarch knew that if a malefactor were the terror of the mountain
hamlets, his subjects would expect him personally to take arms and pursue the ruffian; and
if he refused to do so, would very probably experiment with another king. And the same primitive
conception of a king being kept for some kind of purpose, led them also to expect him to lead
in a foreign campaign, and it was with his own hand that he fired the first shot of the war
which brought down into the dust the ancient empire of the Grand Turk.

His kingdom was little more than the black mountain after which it was named: we commonly refer
to it under its Italian translation of Montenegro. It is worth while to pause for a moment
upon his picturesque and peculiar community, because it is perhaps the simplest working model
of all that stood in the path of the great Germanic social machine I have described in the
last chapter--stood in its path and was soon to be very nearly destroyed by its onset. It was
a branch of the Serbian stock which had climbed into this almost inaccessible eyrie, and thence,
for many hundred years, had mocked at the predatory empire of the Turks. The Serbians in their
turn were but one branch of the peasant Slavs, millions of whom are spread over Russia and
subject on many sides to empires with which they have less sympathy; and the Slavs again, in
the broad features which are important here, are not merely Slavonic but simply European. But
a particular picture is generally more pointed and intelligible than tendencies which elsewhere
are mingled with subtler tendencies; and of this unmixed European simplicity Montenegro is
an excellent model.

Moreover, the instance of one small Christian State will serve to emphasise that this is not
a quarrel between England and Germany, but between Europe and Germany. It is my whole purpose
in these pages not to spare my own country where it is open to criticism; and I freely admit
that Montenegro, morally and politically speaking, is almost as much in advance of England
as it is of Germany. In Montenegro there are no millionaires--and therefore next to no Socialists.
As to why there are no millionaires, it is a mystery, and best studied among the mysteries
of the Middle Ages. By some of the dark ingenuities of that age of priestcraft a curious thing
was discovered--that if you kill every usurer, every forestaller, every adulterater, every
user of false weights, every fixer of false boundaries, every land-thief, every water-thief,
you afterwards discover by a strange indirect miracle, or disconnected truth from heaven, that
you have no millionaires. 

Thus the pope played on two known facts. The viceroy of Naples had at Pavia, Pescara accommodating,
the sword of the French king and therefore received the honor anticipated to be allowed to carry
the illustrious prey to Spain. And then the emperor had Sora and the Carpi greedy columns, their
own relatives of Victoria paid, not his great general, who also had a look for it.

Victoria blushed angrily. "Holy Father, do you think little of my husband. Stellet your Imagine
a petty Pescara: my prayer on vacation, so I go and convince me that your not my Pescara Pescara.
I am in a hurry to come before the true one. "

She rose and stood tall against the pope, but already she bowed again deeply humble gesture to
imploring his blessing. Then he asked her to sit down again, and they obeyed. Clemens could not let
the opportunity escape, Pescara by the beloved Mouth to persuade his wife to drop out. But that
with allusions and preparations for Colonna, as he saw it before, nothing would be done, he
easily understood: either would they rebel against the ambiguous or as something incomprehensible and
unseen term throw into the corner. He had this real and urgent nature of truth in the matter
clear outline drawing and put in a full light, so they have the same of her look worthy. It went
against his nature, and he drew a heavy sigh.

He found some information that was not without wit and cunning. He said Victoria with an innocent
look, while the hand with the fisherman's ring on a bound in blue velvet Book with gilded palaces
reflected: "Are you crazy something poetic, beloved daughter? Truly, I an admirer of your muse, I
am because it deals with the good and holy. And I especially love where it is moral questions
and answers. But the serious moral problem you still have not treated your sonnets. Do you know
what I mean, Victoria Colonna?

This was not surprised at the sudden invasion of the Holy Father, because they are here to their
own soil and was not comfortable with their already celebrated name, scholars and laymen rarely
similar questions might be addressed to them.

She felt, and raised her slender body combative, while her eyes filled with light. "The greatest
moral argument," said it without hesitation, "is the highest between two duties."

Now the Holy Father had won the fairway. "So it is," he reiterated with theological Serious. "That
is, apparently highest, since one of the two is always higher, otherwise
there there is no moral order.

I pray to God and his saints, they assist you and let you know the higher duty, so you prefer
it to the low, you and your Husband, for behold, this large and heavy fighting will approach
you both. "

Victoria grew pale, as their academic question suddenly cut into the living flesh, But the Holy Father
spoke solemnly: "Hear me, my daughter everything that I tell you now! have to say is, also said the Marquis,
reach my words through you. Hear it: the Holy See is separated at this hour of the imperial majesty
and offers her the tip. I act as a prince and as a shepherd. When Prince: because now the hour
of destiny In Italy. Let it trickle, we fall all the Italian princes for centuries addition, the
Spanish yoke. Question, Who do you want: so judge all understanding. But as the supreme shepherd.
He stands in that mysterious young man of the people in his blood and combines crowns on his
head, the old imperial idea, so the whole world suffers full working my holy predecessors have
been in vain, and the church will close by the new state of art humbled,
tied up and deeper than the iron fist of that fabulous Germanic Monsters,
the Salian and Staufen.

It says so. Remained a stranger to you, what Italy in fear and hope fulfilled? "

"The marquis will not believe it," Victoria said with a quick blush.

The Holy Father smiled. "Holiness does not forget," she smiled too,
"I am a Colonna, this is a Ghibellinin.

"

"You are a Roman woman, my daughter, and a Christian," she rebuked Clemens.

There was a pause. Then she asked, "Pescara"

"Pescara" said the Pope, and lowered his voice, "is more of my subjects
than that the emperor.

For he is a Neapolitan, and I am the feudal lord of Naples. Faith not, Victoria, that I speak
lightly. As I expected it, since I am the conscience of the world? Verily I say unto thee, in sleepless
nights and troubled early hours I had my right tested for Pescara. Mistrusting my political reason,
I have the two greatest legal minds Italy consulted Accolti and ... hm ... the second. "

The pope's name wisely crushed on the tongue, as he remembered just in time, This second legal scholar,
the bishop of Cervia, enjoy the reputation of the most shameless
venality.

"Both" - Clemens patted the fisherman's ring on the blue book - "agree with the fact that
Pescara, under tight security, considered much more my husband was remembered as the Emperor,
and both me because I also, now by virtue of my office keys, because the Emperor my enemy will
possess the power to relieve the Marquis of an oath, which he an
enemy of the Holy Chair has sworn.

"

The Pope had risen slowly. "And so I do!" He said priests. "I am selling By the Emperor Ferdinand
Avalos and break his loyalty. I appoint the marquis of Pescara Gonfaloniere to the Church
and the commander of the league, which the saint is, because Christ in the person of his successor
at the head is. "The Pope paused.

Now he raised his right and the left hand at the same level as they held a crown over the head of the
Colonna, who, overwhelmed with amazement fell on his knees, and spoke in a loud Voice: "The
merits of my Gonfaloniere to me and the Holy Church requires rewarding
I crown Ferdinand marquis of Pescara Avalos king of Naples!

"The young queen trembled with joy. She thought she deserve a crown. Speechless, with burning cheeks
they received the blessing. Then she got up and walked in measured but urgent steps as if she could
not wait to bring the husband increased his crown.

The Holy Father, even excited, followed her so quickly that he almost lost a slipper would have.
On the threshold he reached her and wanted to offer her the band of blue velvet. "For the Marquis,"
he said.

Then he saw behind her Guicciardin with morons who obeys perhaps a little on the door had. Victoria
appeared with bright eyes full of glowing bliss to the Registrar as such Wonder that he came
almost from his senses. Rapidly collected but he pleaded to the Pope: "Holiness I'm familiar
with the unholy heavenly Victoria!

", to which Clemens him a small was pat on the shoulder and introduced him by saying: "The chancellor
of Milan, a World Child, to which let down the Holy Spirit begins! "Then he whispered Victories
ear, "moron, buffoon."

These disappeared in the confusion of her happiness, while the Pope in his, the important zurückbehielt
blue book, for he was still intoxicated by the bold symbolic act, to which he had been fascinated
by the sight of beautiful women. Now he felt that he the balance is lost, and he pointed with
a gesture, the visit of the Florentine and from the Lombards and stepped back into the Raphael's
chamber.

The two received not looked at for a moment, then took Guicciardin laughing the arm of the chancellor
and pulled him gently stepped down stairs in the Vatican gardens, whose shade they visit programs
are not needed, because the sky was black with Clouds covered.

"Actually," chatted Guicciardini, "may I suffer the old man. So fine he spins and so intent
he speaks, he is a passionate but inside, an angry person like me, and now very excited because
he has revealed to the Colonna our dangerous secrecy. You in your ecstasy you have never seen,
however, as it the opinion of the Accolti and wanted to press the Angelo de Cesis in the hand. Two
venal villains with perjury Scriptures show! Incidentally, it is a powerful thing, that Clement in
his old age so bold and momentous is taking and even more, he is
making with a deep mistrust against itself, without faith in his star,
because he keeps secret for a jinx.

That's bad.

There was as yet another of Leo, always beaming and triumphant, and therefore always happy,
while the current holiness, as to me recently in a tone of Jeremiah
prophesied already plundered the Eternal City, and from these roofs
"- he pointed to the Vatican - get "Still, he sees smoke and flame
will start the fight against the Emperor. and I expect him to high,
whether it is also to do him first the Florence.

He has or blood in the veins and grinds his teeth, much remained
to him if he the arrogant Spanish nobility see strutting in the Capitol
as in Naples and Brussels.

But while dreaming you, Chancellor? Of the woman? Of course. "

"I want to talk to the Roman, like an old Roman!" cried the Chancellor.

"Beautiful! Just beware that you in the excitement among not your classic Bocksfuß hervorstreckest
the toga. Be sober, to make grand statements and pack them firmly on her vanity! "

"At its heart I want to grab them!"

"That means at their ink bottle, as the heart-writing women are filled with ink," blasphemed
the slanderous Florentine. "But you know, Chancellor" - and it narrowed Guicciardin strong
in the arm - "that the Holy Father is not alone, which our company sleepless makes. I have
also in this week closed my eyes. I always have to me this Pescara rightly think. On his grudge against
the Emperor, I was nothing: they can reconcile overnight. Similarly, the influence of the woman.
It is his message Align the Pope must not: further he will not listen
to them.

But I do not believe his feudal loyalty. Pescara is no Cid, or, as the Spaniards their loyal
Call heroes, but he is too much a son of Italy and of the century. He believes only to power and
the only duty of the great people achieve their full growth with
the resources and the tasks of the time.

He is, and so it fits us. Infallible, he is our prey, and we his. Nevertheless ... laugh at
me, moron ... something umhaucht Me: I sense hidden or kept secret, something essential or something
accidental, something physical or a train of his soul, in short, an unknown obstacle to us Takes
away and forge our exact calculation and frustrated. "

"But," Morone said thoughtfully becoming, "if he is as you take him,
and when the Facts are, as we know it, from what source should because
of that ghost Hostile ?

Rise "

"I do not know, just - this is the reputation of Pescara, he understood it, a stormy to have an enemy
all the highs climb to him suddenly with one last fiery gorges occupied
and crushing him to oppose Wall.

If in his mind, such a Wall rose against us, especially in moments when we believe met his soul
to have? But away with the ghost, which is nothing but the humidity before the storm, the natural
Fear and uncertainty that precedes any big and dangerous business. "

A bolt of lightning flashed over the Vatican. He was in white fire and showed the beautiful
proportions the new architecture. In the rolling of thunder, the two BWA lost between the columns
a portico, Guicciardin affected and wondering what it meant Omen, heedless of the Registrar
to the sky and his character, because he saw himself at the feet
of the Colonna.

This was in a frenzy of enthusiasm to the Vatican on the next steps of his many and leave through
one of its side doors. Litter and entourage, which hands it to the main gate vainly expected,
they had forgotten, and walked, more ambitious of her dream chased worn as the gathering storm,
moving with robes to her palace place back on the Apostle. She walked with a stolen crown as
the first Tullia not over the body of the Father, but by the assassinated
loyalty to the state, for the daughter of Fabricius Colonna and Pescara's
wife was a Neapolitan and Unterthanin Charles the Fifth, king of Naples.

The

crowning gesture of the Pope, they had overwhelmed. Habit and environment, the belief the centuries
and the traditional forms of piety, they were at the head of the Church, so this might be degenerate,
is still a workshop of the divine will and a vessel of the highest counsels see - and how could
one's own self-esteem and more yet the pride in the value of her husband doubt they can at
the papal rights, to put the worthy head a crown? So you were the arrogant act of the Medici
appear despite the changing times as a statement of the deity.

The new queen without a retinue had hurried through the Borgo, crossed the bridge and Engel was now
been conducting the "straight street" as it was called, in the tumult of the crowd. This gave the Colonna
respectfully room to surprise without the unaccompanied passage and the hurrying feet the illustrious
lady who is now a storm of previous storm inspired. Gradually but after their slow steps in
the dense throng not to the general Street, although the narrow sky was getting darker and more
threatening about.

Then she saw the amount of time a cavalcade.

Lords of the Spanish embassy accompanied, no doubt to an audience at the Vatican, the third imperial
commander in Lombardy, Leyva. This ex-groom, the son of an innkeeper and a girl that a slavish
Ambition and an iron will brought up, had a plump body and the face of a Bull-dog, because of the
forehead, nose and lip were split him the same sword blows. Beside him on a magnificent Andalusian
Thoroughbred rode, dressed in a white coat, a distinguished man with a brown head and energetic
features, which now devote a Bow to greet his victory seemed, but he had just before the stone
saints of a nearby church bows.

Was it the lighting or the flash thunderstorm measured hostile attitude of the men in a City,
dreigekröntem of their master they knew their king secretly betrayed,
or was Victoria is excited imagination, she saw and felt in the grandeur
of the riders and horses; the set in the hip arms, half contemptuously
over his shoulder at the Romulussöhne moving down and look up in the
stiff beard hairs the scorn and insult to the beginning of the Spanish
world domination, she felt horror and disgust, and a deadly hatred
stirred in their Roman bust against these alien predators and arrogant
adventurers who the new and the old earth captured together.

Why is the young emperor was also the king this nefarious nation, in whose veins flowed Moorish blood
and Italy with their Borjas had poisoned?

Otherwise they would have the spirit of her ancient family Ghibelline race which for centuries its
advantage was found in it to serve the imperial cause, without obedience
to Charles tied up, but no, not this emperor, even if he was not a
Spaniard.

You could make nothing out of the vague boy they never met face to face, neither they nor anyone in Italy
to those reluctant to enter.

A letter, however, he had written to her after the victory of Pavia, to congratulate them that
she was the wife of Pescara. But even in these austere lines seemed a miserable Mind to reflect,
and what the large-minded wife the most disliked was that in their eyes anxious and pious humility
with which the young Emperor God and his saints all the honor of victory was. Although grateful
for even the sky, estimated such humility Victoria low at a man and a ruler. Was not the confession
that the exciting Are distant to the victory had left a cool, indeed, was not here the petty intention
to to reduce bay Pescara? Why would the sky have done everything. Victoria, however, was burning
jealous of the fame of her husband. And how ungroßmütig had proved Karl! He had brought himself,
the commander, which he owed to Italy, two poor Italian town refuse!

No, such a small man could not be reveal more than you could fall off of him and let him go.

Now
they are hidden a huge fire, the same who at the Registrar and the Guicciardini Roofs of the
Vatican driven back, and just as the rain began to fall, reaching, bending through a right
Alley, the dark steps of the Pantheon and his sublime Porch. Without entering the interior
of the mighty temple, she refused, the resulting Breathing in cool, one of the close-set settlement
massive columns, and under the canopy of the old building turned her mind back to an even
earlier antiquity, whose virtues the liquid imagery of the century, extolled, without owning them or
even understand to their monotonous rigidity and strict reality.

Those virtuous Lucretien and Cornelia as her sisters were drunk before the antiquity Eye, but
she had two names, both of which sounded as Roman as possible, and it was her high as those
women the evil female unknown. Those simple, proud creatures the conquerors were born in the
world, Virgil's great, "Tu imperio more active," which they as had often been said already, they
overpowered now up to the tears. They entered the temple and threw himself down in the middle
of that summer lightning in the arch and the level Hands and prayed, not that Rome and Italy were
sinking into the grave of slavery. She pleaded up in the Christian heaven, and no less to
the Olympian, who thundered over her, all the things there and saves power, has the strange and yet so
natural gods mixture of the transition period.

As they left the Pantheon - how long she lay on her knees, she did
not - cheered the Italian sky just back on, and changes in their usual,
easily and measured, they quit their way to her palace.

Now turned their thoughts back to Pescara. Not that your wife could hand the Spaniard , But
only he could drive out there, who held in each of his, a win if them and the circumstances, they
persuaded him. Could they hope for it? Had she such power about him? And Victoria had to say that
despite their long marriage and dared the innermost Pescara not know. She knew his face, his
gestures, the smallest of his habits heart. The fact that her abstinence, be faithful, they
believed, and was not mistaken. That he she adored, and as its greatest asset with the utmost
love and care cherished, tender and respectfully at the same time, she was proud. In the happy
hours of her short, always campaign, and again lifted by stock-together plans and maps and
he threw his Livy away to consider his wife, and together with her Meerbläue and wandering sails.
He played chess with her, and she won. He asked her to play the lute, closed his eyes and listened.
He gave her for her sonnets subtle themes, and sometimes more stringent the outline of their
general thoughts and wide turns, for he had previously, in the involuntary idleness of a prisoner - and
really not bad for a men at arms - for Victoria's glorification a
"Triumph of Love" sealed.

His victories, however, he said, young as he was expecting and more, his wife never because
he, as he said, would neither bored nor sprinkle with blood, for a campaign was a long ordeal
that led to the red pool of slaughter. Of policy said he just did not, neither past nor of floating,
though he once the word escaped to draw people and things with invisible hands, be the finest
of life, and who know the time, may cost about nothing more. But usually he said that politics
is a dirty market, and his wife could not even the bright tip her
foot in the disgusting swamp diving.

Thus, Victoria confessed that her impenetrable of all untäuschbar by looking Pescara and his thought
and belief is closed.
Was that right? Could it be illegal for them doors and locked in
chambers of the soul her husband? According to the plans of the commander
and the machinations of the statesman it was not inaugurated eager,
but she wanted to be in his ambition and his conscience. That artist was there in triumph; but he had no name. The ancient world called him the Slave.

From this advancing machine of millions, the slighter array of the Allies, and especially the
British at their ultimate outpost, saved themselves by a succession of hair's-breadth escapes
and what must have seemed to the soldiers the heartrending luck of a mouse before a cat. Again
and again Von Kluck's cavalry, supported by artillery and infantry, clawed round the end of
the British force, which eluded it as by leaping back again and again. Sometimes the pursuer
was, so to speak, so much on top of his prey that it could not even give way to him; but had
to hit such blows as it could in the hope of checking him for the instant needed for escape.
Sometimes the oncoming wave was so close that a small individual accident, the capture of one
man, would mean the washing out of a whole battalion. For day after day this living death endured.
And day after day a certain dark truth began to be revealed, bit by bit, certainly to the incredulous
wonder of the Prussians, quite possibly to the surprise of the French, and quite as possibly
to the surprise of themselves; that there was something singular about the British soldiers.
That singular thing may be expressed in a variety of ways; but it would be almost certainly
expressed insufficiently by anyone who had not had the moral courage to face the facts about
his country in the last decades before the war. It may perhaps be best expressed by saying
that some thousands of Englishmen were dead: and that England was not.

The fortress of Maubeuge had gaped, so to speak, offering a refuge for the unresting and tormented
retreat; the British Generals had refused it and continued to fight a losing fight in the open
for the sake of the common plan. At night an enormous multitude of Germans had come unexpectedly
through the forest and caught a smaller body of the British in Landrecies; failed to dislodge
them and lost a whole battalion in that battle of the darkness. At the extreme end of the line
Smith-Dorrien's division, who seemed to be nearly caught or cut off, had fought with one gun
against four, and so hammered the Germans that they were forced to let go their hold; and the
British were again free. When the blowing up of a bridge announced that they had crossed the
last river, something other than that battered remnant was saved; it was the honour of the
thing by which we live.

The driven and defeated line stood at last almost under the walls of Paris; and the world waited
for the doom of the city. The gates seemed to stand open; and the Prussian was to ride into
it for the third and the last time: for the end of its long epic of liberty and equality was
come. And still the very able and very French individual on whom rested the last hope of the
seemingly hopeless Alliance stood unruffled as a rock, in every angle of his sky-blue jacket
and his bulldog figure. He had called his bewildered soldiers back when they had broken the
invasion at Guise; he had silently digested the responsibility of dragging on the retreat,
as in despair, to the last desperate leagues before the capital; and he stood and watched.
And even as he watched the whole huge invasion swerved.

Out through Paris and out and around beyond Paris, other men in dim blue coats swung out in
long lines upon the plain, slowly folding upon Von Kluck like blue wings. Von Kluck stood an
instant; and then, flinging a few secondary forces to delay the wing that was swinging round
on him, dashed across the Allies' line at a desperate angle, to smash it in the centre as with
a hammer. It was less desperate than it seemed; for he counted, and might well count, on the
moral and physical bankruptcy of the British line and the end of the French line immediately
in front of him, which for six days and nights he had chased before him like autumn leaves
before a whirlwind. Not unlike autumn leaves, red-stained, dust-hued, and tattered, they lay
there as if swept into a corner. But even as their conquerors wheeled eastwards, their bugles
blew the charge; and the English went forward through the wood that is called Creçy, and stamped
it with their seal for the second time, in the highest moment of all the secular history of man.

But it was not now the Creçy in which English and French knights had met in a more coloured
age, in a battle that was rather a tournament. The arid Branches
which covered the ground everywhere, bent beneath our feet, and about us aufgestoert of the
noise, the raven flew from their nests and rustled with the wings in the leaves. Anne Lene went
silent and closed in on my side, and their thoughts want to be there, from which I so ardently
wished to recall .-- We were to Graft come down, which was also the limit of the actual court.

Among
the trees, which were beyond the river, saw it as a dark Setting
out into the moonlit landscape out in whatever now and then the individual
farmsteads such nebulae sticking out of the plane.

It was so quiet you heard nothing but the rustle the reeds, which stood in the trenches.
 To begin with, the word "British" involves a similar awkwardness.
I have tried to use it in the one or two cases that referred to such things as military glory
and unity: though I am sure I have failed of full consistency in so complex a matter. Del Guasto flared nostrils before pleasure. He drew a Stool for
the Duke, behind whose shoulders he took the second position as eavesdropper. The red curtain
pulled himself together. Pescara but felt embraced by the pages Ippolito, the whispered up to him,
with tears in his eyes: "There is no pharmacist, but a Magician in long black robes with a talisman
on his chest and a terrible Face! "

"Scary boy! Bring it!" If
I dare, and the greatest demand from you the greatest, I am in this sacred moment be ridiculous to
lift a curtain, like a deceived husband, the hidden His wife's lover looking for? No, I give
price! It would not be true, for instance, to say either of Ireland or
Scotland that the populace lacked a religion; but I do think that British policy as a whole
has suffered from the English lack of one, with its inevitable result of plutocracy and class
contempt.

