Returning now to the problem of the moon's temperature, I think the phenomena this presents
may be in part due to the mode of formation here described. For, its entire surface being the
result of long-continued gaseous explosions, all the volcanic products--scoriae, pumice, and
ashes--would necessarily be highly porous throughout; and, never having been compacted by water-action,
as on the earth, and there having been no winds to carry the finer dust so as to fill up their
pores and fissures, the whole of the surface material to a very considerable depth must be
loose and porous to a high degree. This condition has been further increased owing to the small
power of gravity and the extreme irregularity of the surface, consisting very largely of lofty
cones and ridges very loosely piled up to enormous heights.

Now this condition of the substance of the moon's surface is such as would produce a high specific
heat, so that it would absorb a large amount of heat in proportion to the rise of temperature
produced, the heat being conducted downwards to a considerable depth. Owing, however, to the
total absence of atmosphere radiation would very rapidly cool the surface, but afterwards more
slowly, both on account of the action of Stefan's law and because the heat stored up in the
deeper portions could be carried to the surface by conduction only, and with extreme slowness.

Very's Researches on the Moon's Heat.

The results of the eclipse observations are supported by the detailed examination of the surface-temperature
of the moon by Mr. Very in his Prize Essay on the Distribution of the Moon's Heat (published
by the Utrecht Society of Arts and Sciences in 1891). He shows, by a diagram of the 'Phase-curve,'
that at the commencement of the Lunar day the surface just within the illuminated limb has
acquired about 1/7 of its maximum temperature, or about 70° F. abs. As the surface exposed
to the Bolometer at each observation is about 1/30 of the moon's surface, and in order to ensure
accuracy the instrument has to be directed to a spot lying wholly within the edge of the moon,
it is evident that the surface measured has already been for several hours exposed to oblique
sunshine. The curve of temperature then rises gradually and afterwards more rapidly, till it
attains its maximum (of about +30 to 40° F.) a few hours before noon. This, Mr. Very thinks,
is due to the fact that the half of the moon's face first illuminated for us has, on the average,
a darker surface than that of the afternoon, or second quarter, during which the curve descends
not quite so rapidly, the temperature near sunset being only a little higher than that near
sunrise. This rapid fall while exposed to oblique sunshine is quite in harmony with the rapid
loss of heat during the few hours of darkness during an eclipse, both showing the prepotency
of radiation over insolation on the moon.

Two other diagrams show the distribution of heat at the time of full-moon, one half of the
curve showing the temperatures along the equator from the edge of the disc to the centre, the
other along a meridian from this centre to the pole. This diagram (here reproduced) exhibits
the quick rise of temperature of the oblique rim of the moon and the nearly uniform heat of
the central half of its surface; the diminution of heat towards the pole, however, is slower
for the first half and more rapid for the latter portion.

It is an interesting fact that the temperature near the margin of the full-moon increases towards
the centre more rapidly than it does when the same parts are observed during the early phases
of the first quarter. Mr. Very explains this difference as being due to the fact that the full-moon
to its very edges is fully illuminated, all the shadows of the ridges and mountains being thrown
vertically or obliquely behind them. We thus measure the heat reflected from the whole visible
surface. But at new moon, and somewhat beyond the first quarter, the deep shadows thrown by
the smallest cones and ridges, as well as by the loftiest mountains, cover a considerable portion
of the visible surface, thus largely reducing the quantity of light and heat reflected or radiated
in our direction. It is only at the full, therefore, that the maximum temperature of the whole
lunar surface can be measured. It must be considered a proof of the delicacy of the heat-measuring
instruments that this difference in the curves of temperature of the different parts of the
moon's surface and under different conditions is so clearly shown.

The Application of the Preceding Results to the Case of Mars.

This somewhat lengthy account of the actual state of the moon's surface and temperature is
of very great importance in our present enquiry, because it shows us the extraordinary difference
in mean and extreme temperatures of two bodies situated at the same distance from the sun,
and therefore receiving exactly the same amount of solar heat per unit of surface. We have
learned also what are the main causes of this almost incredible difference, namely: (1) a remarkably
rugged surface with porous and probably cavernous rock-texture, leading to extremely rapid
radiation of heat in the one; as compared with a comparatively even and well-compacted surface
largely clad with vegetation, leading to comparatively slow and gradual loss by radiation in
the other: and (2), these results being greatly intensified by the total absence of a protecting
atmosphere in the former, while a dense and cloudy atmosphere with an ever-present supply of
water-vapour, accumulates and equalises the heat received by the latter.

The only other essential difference in the two bodies which may possibly aid in the production
of this marvellous result, is the fact of our day and night having a mean length of 12 hours,
while those of the moon are about 14-1/2 of our days. But the altogether unexpected fact, in
which two independent enquirers agree, that during the few hours' duration of a total eclipse
of the moon so large a proportion of the heat is lost by radiation renders it almost certain
that the resulting low temperature would be not very much less if the moon had a day and night
the same length as our own.

The great lesson we learn by this extreme contrast of conditions supplied to us by nature,
as if to enable us to solve some of her problems, is, the overwhelming importance, first, of
a dense and well-compacted surface, due to water-action and strong gravitative force; secondly,
of a more or less general coat of vegetation; and, thirdly, of a dense vapour-laden atmosphere.
These three favourable conditions result in a mean temperature of about +60° F. with a range
seldom exceeding 40° above or below it, while over more than half the land-surface of the earth
the temperature rarely falls below the freezing point. On the other hand, we have a globe of
the same materials and at the same distance from the sun, with a maximum temperature of freezing
water, and a minimum not very far from the absolute zero, the monthly mean being probably much
below the freezing point of carbonic-acid gas--a difference entirely due to the absence of
these three favourable conditions.

The Special Features of Mars as influencing Temperature.

Coming now to the special feature of Mars and its probable temperature, we find that most writers
have arrived at a very different conclusion from that of Mr. Lowell, who himself quotes Mr.
Moulton as an authority who 'recently, by the application of Stefan's law,' has found the mean
temperature of this planet to be-35° F. Again, Professor J.H. Poynting, in his lecture on 'Radiation
in the Solar System,' delivered before the British Association at Cambridge in 1904, gave an
estimate of the mean temperature of the planets, arrived at from measurements of the sun's
emissive power and the application of Stefan's law to the distances of the several planets,
and he thus finds the earth to have a mean temperature of 17° C. (=62-1/2° F.) and Mars one
of-38° C. (=-36-1/2° F.), a wonderfully close approximation to the mean temperature of the
earth as determined by direct measurement, and therefore, presumably, an equally near approximation
to that of Mars as dependent on distance from the sun, and 'on the supposition that it is earth-like
in all its conditions.'

But we know that it is far from being earth-like in the very conditions which we have found
to be those which determine the extremely different temperatures of the earth, and moon; and,
as regards each of these, we shall find that, so far as it differs from the earth, it approximates
to the less favourable conditions that prevail in the moon. The first of these conditions which
we have found to be essential in regulating the absorption and radiation of heat, and thus
raising the mean temperature of a planet, is a compact surface well covered with vegetation,
two conditions arising from, and absolutely dependent on, an ample amount of water. But Mr.
Lowell himself assures us, as a fact of which he has no doubt, that there are no permanent
bodies of water, great or small, upon Mars; that rain, and consequently rivers, are totally
wanting; that its sky is almost constantly clear, and that what appear to be clouds are not
formed of water-vapour but of dust. He dwells, emphatically, on the terrible desert conditions
of the greater part of the surface of the planet.

That being the case now, we have no right to assume that it has ever been otherwise; and, taking
full account of the fact, neither denied nor disputed by Mr. Lowell, that the force of gravity
on Mars is not sufficient to retain water-vapour in its atmosphere, we must conclude that the
surface of that planet, like that of the moon, has been moulded by some form of volcanic action
modified probably by wind, but not by water. Something, however, is still in the composition of the mysticism of others.
It's like a small piece of the Song of Songs, or better say the Gita-govinda, whose compliments,
tenderness and material descriptions can be interpreted by otherworldly style and transcendent. The
composition in this case also has a uniqueness that has neither the erotic romance of the Hebrews
and the Indians. Crishna Solomon saw, heard and touched beautiful and love your friends, but
this poet or touch or see, or hear his, if not the imagination with vague uncertain, and in
such a manner that it can live on this planet in another very remote, and the same may be our
contemporary, to be born the last forty centuries or even be waiting another forty in the world of
ideas, before it reaches the day of his incarnation and its occurrence among people of our caste.

-
Very curious is what you tell me, but it is not original or new.

It's so hard to be new and original! Do not you love Elena Faust, who lived 2500 years before
he was born? Is there no Arabic or Persian tale, where a Muslim prince, who lived two hundred
or three hundred years after Muhammad, is madly in love with some queen or princess of Serendib
or Sheba, which flourished in the days of Solomon and was Sulamita rival?

- All that is true, but even more vague and indeterminate Mrs. thoughts of our Indian poet. The Muslim
prince in love with the rival Sulamita had found and admired the portrait of her father's treasure,
while there is no picture or is there any indication through which to glimpse or have any idea or
notion of his lady, the author of the verses I have translated. Hear them carefully.

- I'm all ears.

    Count Henry read thus:
    
    Where are you hiding, my beauty,
    they do not get to see my eyes, As I dream of my fantasy Full of
grace, free of anger?

    
    
    Come do the Kokila sweet gurgles
    Do pay the lotus aroma in the wind Come see my longing wish And understand
you my understanding.

    
    
    You're not dreaming, you really are;
    Do not pretend these spells soul, Although most beautiful women Yours
will call the immortals.

    
    
    In the pure light in your eyes
    Love lights your darts gold and your lips are sealed ballot box Source
of their pleasure and treasure.

    
    
    Ora reside off the ground Ora show
    up in another age, For the three worlds in rapid flight I will go
looking for you.

    
    
    Bright pearl, though hidden In the deep
    sea are, I find you know, it's my life For me des exalted prize.

Poldy heard the verses carefully and discussed them with his brother and even tried with apparent
critical coldness, giving some merit and pointing out their many
flaws. What she concealed and not revealed or his brother or anyone,
was the swarm of assumptions and dreams verses that arose in his imagination.
 But, although
Mr. Lowell refers to the conservative or 'blanketing' effect of the earth's atmosphere, he
does not consider or allow for its very great cumulative effect, as is strikingly shown by
the comparison with the actual temperature conditions of the moon. This cumulative effect is
due to the continuous reflection and radiation of heat from the clouds as well as from the
vapour-laden strata of air in our lower atmosphere, which latter, though very transparent to
the luminous and accompanying heat rays of the sun, are opaque to the dark heat-rays whether
radiated or reflected from the earth's surface. We are therefore in a position strictly comparable
with that of the interior of some huge glass house, which not only becomes intensely heated
by the direct rays of the sun, but also to a less degree by reflected rays from the sky and
those radiated from the clouds, so that even on a cloudy or misty day its temperature rises
many degrees above that of the outer air. Such a building, if of large size, of suitable form,
and well protected at night by blinds or other covering, might be so arranged as to accumulate
heat in its soil and walls so as to maintain a tolerably uniform temperature though exposed
to a considerable range of external heat and cold. It is to such a power of accumulation of
heat in our soil and lower atmosphere that we must impute the overwhelming contrast between
our climate and that of the moon. With us, the solar heat that penetrates our vapour-laden
and cloudy atmosphere is shut in by that same atmosphere, accumulates there for weeks and months
together, and can only slowly escape. It is this great cumulative power which Mr. Lowell has
not taken account of, while he certainly has not estimated the enormous loss of heat by free
radiation, which entirely neutralises the effects of increase of sun-heat, however great, when
these cumulative agencies are not present.[12]

[Footnote 12: The effects of this 'cumulative' power of a dense atmosphere are further discussed
and illustrated in the last chapter of this book, where I show that the universal fact of steadily
diminishing temperatures at high altitudes is due solely to the diminution of this cumulative
power of our atmosphere, and that from this cause alone the temperature of Mars must be that
which would be found on a lofty plateau about 18,000 feet higher than the average of the peaks
of the Andes!]

Temperature on Polar Regions of Mars.

There is also a further consideration which I think Mr. Lowell has altogether omitted to discuss.
Whatever may be the mean temperature of Mars, we must take account of the long nights in its
polar and high-temperate latitudes, lasting nearly twice as long as ours, with the resulting
lowering of temperature by radiation into a constantly clear sky. Even in Siberia, in Lat.
67-1/2°N. a cold of-88°F. has been attained; while over a large portion of N. Asia and America
above 60° Lat. the mean January temperature is from-30°F. to-60°F., and the whole subsoil is
permanently frozen from a depth of 6 or 7 feet to several hundreds. But the winter temperatures,
over the same latitudes in Mars, must be very much lower; and it must require a proportionally
larger amount of its feeble sun-heat to raise the surface even to the freezing-point, and an
additional very large amount to melt any considerable depth of snow. But this identical area,
from a little below 60° to the pole, is that occupied by the snow-caps of Mars, and over the
whole of it the winter temperature must be far lower than the earth-minimum of-88°F. Then,
as the Martian summer comes on, there is less than half the sun-heat available to raise this
low temperature after a winter nearly double the length of ours. And when the summer does come
with its scanty sun-heat, that heat is not accumulated as it is by our dense and moisture-laden
atmosphere, the marvellous effects of which we have already shown. Yet with all these adverse
conditions, each assisting the other to produce a climate approximating to that which the earth
would have if it had no atmosphere (but retaining our superiority over Mars in receiving double
the amount of sun-heat), we are asked to accept a mean temperature for the more distant planet
almost exactly the same as that of mild and equable southern England, and a disappearance of
the vast snowfields of its polar regions as rapid and complete as what occurs with us! If the
moon, even at its equator, has not its temperature raised above the freezing-point of water,
how can the more distant Mars, with its oblique noon-day sun falling upon the snow-caps, receive
heat enough, first to raise their temperature to 32° F., and then to melt with marked rapidity
the vast frozen plains of its polar regions? 

Poldy understood the intention of the bird, not fear anything because he was considered harmless,
but missed that show him as loving and as resolutely as long strides as he strode spandrels came
to her as if she were an old friend. Would you have known and dealt before and did not remember
then? Poldy sought in vain by all the deepest and forgotten breast of his memory some vague memory
of that knowledge and treatment. Was not the least trace even the slightest trace if any have
ever had. Here he runs counter to two of the best-established laws of terrestrial climatology--
the wonderful equalising effects of warm ocean-currents which are the chief agents in diminishing
polar cold; the equally striking effects of warm moist winds derived from these oceans, and
the great storehouse of heat we possess in our vapour-laden atmosphere, its vapour being primarily
derived from these same oceans! But, in Mr. Lowell's opinion, all our meteorologists are quite
mistaken. Our oceans are our great drawbacks. Only get rid of them and we should enjoy the
exquisite climate of Mars--with its absence of clouds and fog, of rain or rivers, and its delightful
expanses of perennial deserts, varied towards the poles by a scanty snow-fall in winter, the
melting of which might, with great care, supply us with the necessary moisture to grow wheat
and cabbages for about one-tenth, or more likely one-hundredth, of our present population.
I hope I may be excused for not treating such an argument seriously. The various considerations
now advanced, especially those which show the enormous cumulative and conservative effect of
our dense and water-laden atmosphere, and the disastrous effect--judging by the actual condition
of the moon--which the loss of it would have upon our temperature, seem to me quite sufficient
to demonstrate important errors in the data or fallacies in the complex mathematical argument
by which Mr. Lowell has attempted to uphold his views as to the temperature and consequent
climatic conditions of Mars. But during the spring, it made up for their forced confinement staying long
hours in the forest. And stopped to meditate, and went slowly and without certain direction,
and it stopped, or look at a flower, a butterfly, a dragonfly, or the capricious effects of
light through the green branches or heard singing birds or the murmur of water from the stream
to break into the pebbles, or the gentle whisper aura of the green and leaves early.
 I claim for them, therefore, that they are in no degree speculative, but in their
data and methods exclusively scientific. In the next chapter I will put forward a suggestion
as to how the very curious markings upon the surface of Mars may possibly be interpreted, so
as to be in harmony with the planet's actual physical condition and its not improbable origin
and past history.

CHAPTER VII.

A SUGGESTION AS TO THE 'CANALS' OF MARS.

The special characteristics of the numerous lines which intersect the whole of the equatorial
and temperate regions of Mars are, their straightness combined with their enormous length.
It is this which has led Mr. Lowell to term them 'non-natural features.' Schiaparelli, in his
earlier drawings, showed them curved and of comparatively great width. Later, he found them
to be straight fine lines when seen under the best conditions, just as Mr. Lowell has always
seen them in the pure atmosphere of his observatory. Both of these observers were at first
doubtful of their reality, but persistent observation continued at many successive oppositions
compelled acceptance of them as actual features of the planet's disc. So many other observers
have now seen them that the objection of unreality seems no longer valid.

Mr. Lowell urges, however, that their perfect straightness, their extreme tenuity, their uniformity
throughout their whole length, the dual character of many of them, their relation to the 'oases'
and the form and position of these round black spots, are all proofs of artificiality and are
suggestive of design. And considering that some of them are actually as long as from Boston
to San Francisco, and relatively to their globe as long as from London to Bombay, his objection
that "no natural phenomena within our knowledge show such regularity on such a scale" seems,
at first, a mighty one. Poldy then had inklings that the stork was about to emigrate and return no
doubt the dream palace, to the eastern city, the temple or the fifth, where the author dwelt
verses.

Irresistible was the temptation he felt to write. But as our knowledge of the internal structure and past history even of our earth is
still imperfect, that of the moon only conjectural, and that of Mars a perfect blank, it is
not perhaps surprising that the surface-features of the latter do not correspond with those
of either of the others.

Mr. Pickering's Suggestion.

