A RIDE ACROSS PALESTINE

by Anthony Trollope

Circumstances took me to the Holy Land without a companion, and compelled me to visit Bethany,
the Mount of Olives, and the Church of the Sepulchre alone.  I acknowledge myself to be a gregarious
animal, or, perhaps, rather one of those which nature has intended to go in pairs.  At any
rate I dislike solitude, and especially travelling solitude, and was, therefore, rather sad
at heart as I sat one night at Z-'s hotel, in Jerusalem, thinking over my proposed wanderings
for the next few days.  Early on the following morning I intended to start, of course on horseback,
for the Dead Sea, the banks of Jordan, Jericho, and those mountains of the wilderness through
which it is supposed that Our Saviour wandered for the forty days when the devil tempted him.
I would then return to the Holy City, and remaining only long enough to refresh my horse and
wipe the dust from my hands and feet, I would start again for Jaffa, and there catch a certain
Austrian steamer which would take me to Egypt. Such was my programme, and I confess that I
was but ill contented with it, seeing that I was to be alone during the time.

I had already made all my arrangements, and though I had no reason for any doubt as to my personal
security during the trip, I did not feel altogether satisfied with them.  I intended to take
a French guide, or dragoman, who had been with me for some days, and to put myself under the
peculiar guardianship of two Bedouin Arabs, who were to accompany me as long as I should remain
east of Jerusalem. This travelling through the desert under the protection of Bedouins was,
in idea, pleasant enough; and I must here declare that I did not at all begrudge the forty
shillings which I was told by our British consul that I must pay them for their trouble, in
accordance with the established tariff.  But I did begrudge the fact of the tariff.  I would
rather have fallen in with my friendly Arabs, as it were by chance, and have rewarded their
fidelity at the end of our joint journeyings by a donation of piastres to be settled by myself,
and which, under such circumstances, would certainly have been as agreeable to them as the
stipulated sum.  In the same way I dislike having waiters put down in my bill.  I find that
I pay them twice over, and thus lose money; and as they do not expect to be so treated, I never
have the advantage of their civility.  The world, I fear, is becoming too fond of tariffs.

"A tariff!" said I to the consul, feeling that the whole romance of my expedition would be
dissipated by such an arrangement.  "Then I'll go alone; I'll take a revolver with me."

"You can't do it, sir," said the consul, in a dry and somewhat angry tone.  "You have no more
right to ride through that country without paying the regular price for protection, than you
have to stop in Z- 's hotel without settling the bill."

I could not contest the point, so I ordered my Bedouins for the appointed day, exactly as I
would send for a ticket-porter at home, and determined to make the best of it.  The wild unlimited
sands, the desolation of the Dead Sea, the rushing waters of Jordan, the outlines of the mountains
of Moab;--those things the consular tariff could not alter, nor deprive them of the glories
of their association.

I had submitted, and the arrangements had been made.  Joseph, my dragoman, was to come to me
with the horses and an Arab groom at five in the morning, and we were to encounter our Bedouins
outside the gate of St. Stephen, down the hill, where the road turns, close to the tomb of
the Virgin.

