Both boys and girls wear wooden shoes.  And what a noise they do make with their wooden shoes
when they run around!  They have great fun playing their shoes are boats.  They sit on the
sides of the canals and take off their shoes and sail them on the water like little boats.
They tie strings to the shoes so that they can draw them in whenever they like.

Dutch children do not wear shoes in the house, but wear slippers.  When they go home after
playing or from school they take off their shoes. They leave them outside the door.  Would
you not think it strange to see rows of little shoes outside the doors?

Every Saturday the children clean their shoes.  But they do not shine them as we do.  They
wash them with soap and water, and dry them at the fire.  If the sun shines, they hang them
on a bush to dry.  When they are dry, they are almost as white as snow.

Winter is a very merry season in Holland.  Then all the canals are frozen, and there is great
fun skating.  Everybody has skates, even the little children.  And how merry and happy the
boys and girls are, skimming along on the ice!

The men and women go to market on skates.  Those who do not wish to go on skates go in sleds
or chairs with runners on them.  The chairs are pushed by skaters.

But the best fun of all is on the ice boats.  The ice boats have sails, and can go very fast
on the smooth ice.

The first day of skating every year is a holiday.  There is no school that day, and everybody
goes out skating, or riding in sleds or ice boats.  How glad the boys and girls are when Skating
Day comes!  What fun they have!  And of course they have sleigh riding, for every family has
a sleigh.  The sleighs are made like shells, or boats, or swans. When the people go sleigh
riding at night, they carry lighted torches.

The greatest holiday the Dutch have is Santa Claus's day.  It is on December 6.  All the stores
are made pretty on that day.  Santa Claus is in the windows.  He is dressed in red with white
fur, and rides a large horse.  The streets are crowded with boys and girls to see all this.
They have Santa Claus cakes, and gingerbread made like chairs and tables and fishes and horses
and many other things.

At night Santa Claus rides on the roofs of the houses, and drops nice things down the chimneys
for good children.  And the boys and girls leave their shoes near the fireplace for the things
to drop in.

But they do not find many toys in their shoes, for Santa likes better to give them cakes and
money.  The Dutch boys and girls have not many toys, but they play for hours with their shoes.
They use them for boats, baskets, dishes, or beds for their dolls.

They have fine schools in Holland, and the boys and girls go to school and learn the same things
that we learn in our schools.

Some Dutch girls go to market to sell milk or cheese.  They have donkeys to carry the milk
or cheese.  Sometimes, the girls ride on the donkeys' backs.

Some Dutch girls also go to market to sell fruit.  They carry the fruit on a pole across the
back of their shoulders.  A basket of fruit hangs from each end of the pole, as you see in
the picture.  The boys sell milk.  They carry it about in little wagons drawn by dogs.  They
are very kind to the dogs.  They do not make them draw too heavy a load.

When a baby is born in Holland, some one hangs a silk ball outside the door.  If the baby is
a boy, they hang up a red ball; and if it is a girl, they hang up a pink ball.  Is not this
a good way to let their friends know they have a new baby?

PATAGONIA.

Have you ever seen a man with pictures on his body?  Perhaps you have seen a sailor with a
picture of a ship on his arm.  In Patagonia nearly all the men and boys have pictures on their
bodies.  Patagonia is in the southern part of the world.  It is winter in that country when
it is summer here, and summer there when it is winter here.

Patagonia is a very flat country.  There are very few hills and no large trees or fine flowers
there.  But there is plenty of good grass, which sometimes grows very tall.

The people in Patagonia are Indians.  They have red-brown skin, long black hair, and small
eyes.  The men are very tall.  Some of them are seven feet high.  They paint their faces red
and black, and tattoo their arms.  They do this with a needle.  They put the needle into dye,
and then prick the skin with it.

The men wear a piece of cloth around their waists and a large cloak of fur.  They sometimes
wear boots made of the skin of horses' legs.  The women wear gowns fastened at the neck with
a pin.  They also have cloaks like the men.

The boys and girls wear no clothes until they are four years old. After they are four years
old they wear the same kind of clothes their fathers and mothers wear.  The young girls wear
their hair in braids. If their hair is not long enough, they make it longer by tying horsehair
to it.

The houses in Patagonia are tents made of skins.  There are rooms in the tents, and each grown-up
person has a room.  The fire is made inside the tent on the floor.

The people in Patagonia eat gua-na-co and ostrich meat.  Some of the people drink a kind of
tea made from the leaves of a plant.  The leaves are first crushed fine, then put into water.
They drink this tea through a small tube with many holes in it.  The holes are so small that
the pieces of leaves cannot come through.  This tea is very good to drink.  It makes the people
very strong.

The women do all the work about the house.  They make the clothes, carry home the wood for
the fire, and bring water from the streams or wells.

The men do nothing but hunt.  They hunt the guanaco and the ostrich. The guanaco is nearly
as large as a cow, and has a head like a camel. Its flesh is good to eat, and the people make
cloaks of its skin.

The ostrich is the largest bird in the world.  Its legs are very long, and it has a long neck.
It cannot fly, for its wings are too small, but it can run very fast.  It can run faster than
a horse.  It is hard for the hunter to catch it.  He rides on horseback, and catches the ostrich
with a bo'las.  A bolas is a rope with a stone, a metal ball, or a lump of hard clay fastened
to each end.  The hunter swings one end of the bolas round and round his head, and then hurls
it with great force at the ostrich.  It strikes the ostrich or catches it by the legs and throws
it down.  Then the hunter runs up and kills the ostrich with a knife.  The hunters also hunt
the ostrich with dogs.  Sometimes an ostrich will spring suddenly up from the long grass almost
in front of the hunter and his dogs.  Then the dogs can easily catch it.

The ostrich makes a hole in the ground under a bush for its eggs.  This is its nest.  The eggs
are very large, and they are good to eat.  Its flesh is also good to eat.  Of course you know
ostrich feathers are pretty for ladies' hats.  The feathers for hats are taken from the tail
and from the ends of the wings.  But the feathers of the ostrich in Patagonia are not so fine
and pretty as the feathers of the ostrich found in Africa.

There is an animal in Patagonia called the puma.  It is like a cat, but it is much stronger.
Often it kills and eats the guanaco.

The boys and girls in Patagonia have very few toys, but they are merry and happy.  As the boys
grow up, they soon learn to hunt; and then they go out with their fathers to hunt the guanaco
and the ostrich.

THE PYGMIES.

Perhaps you have read in fairy tales of very little people called dwarfs.  There are old stories
which tell us about very small men who lived a long time ago in Africa.  They were called pygmies.
They were only one foot high, and they built their houses with eggshells.  They lived in holes
in the ground.  They had goats and sheep which were much smaller than themselves, and they
had corn which they cut down with axes, as we cut down trees.

This is what we are told about them; but, of course, those stories are fables.  There never
were men so small as one foot high.

But there are real people in Africa called pygmies.  They are very small.  The men and women
look as if they were boys and girls.  The men are about four feet high.

There are a great many large forests in Africa.  It is in the forests that the pygmies live.
The forests are so dark in many places that one could not see to read at noonday.  Only a few
white men have been in the land of the pygmies and seen them.  They are shy, like children,
and hide their faces when spoken to.

Some of the pygmies are black and some are red.  They do not wear much clothing.  They do not
need much, for the weather is always very warm in the country in which they live.  The men
and boys wear only a strip of cloth around their loins.

Many of the pygmies have no houses.  They wander from place to place, and sleep on the ground
under a bush.  But some of them have little houses, or huts, built in the shape of beehives
and about four feet high.  They are covered over with long leaves.  The door is only about
a foot and a half high, just high enough for the pygmies to creep in. Their beds are made of
sticks stuck in the ground with other sticks across them.

The pygmies live by hunting.  They do not shoot with guns, as we do. They use bows and arrows,
and they are very quick and clever at shooting.  A pygmy will shoot off three or four arrows
one after the other so quickly that the last is flying away before the first has hit the mark.

The pygmies are also very smart in making pits to catch the animals they wish to kill.  They
dig large holes and cover them with sticks and leaves.  The animal comes along and falls into
the pit and is caught. The pygmies can kill elephants with their bows and arrows.  They first
shoot at the elephant's eyes until he is blind.  They then keep shooting at him till he falls dead.

The pygmies eat the flesh of some of the animals they kill.  They sell or trade the fur and
skin and ivory for arrows and knives.  They also get tobacco and potatoes for their furs and skins.

They are also very good at fishing.  They can catch large fish with a piece of meat fastened
to a string.

The pygmies do not dig the ground or plant or sow anything.  Bananas grow in Africa, and the
pygmies are very fond of them.  Often they come out of the forests to get bananas from the
trees on which they grow. If a pygmy sees a good bunch of bananas that he would like to have,
he shoots his arrow into the stalk.  When the owner of the tree sees the arrow he knows how
it came there.  So he leaves the stalk until the pygmy takes it away.  Sometimes a pygmy pays
for the bunch of bananas with pieces of meat.  He wraps up a piece of meat in grass or leaves,
and fastens it to the stalk where he has cut off the bananas.

A pygmy can eat twice as many bananas as the largest white man.  He can eat as many as sixty
at one meal.

Though the pygmies are small, they are very brave, and all the other people who live near them
are very much afraid of them.

THE INDIANS.

Long, long ago, before Columbus found America, the Indians lived where we live now, There were
no cities or houses then, such as we have. There were no farms or gardens or fences or roads.
A large part of the country was covered with trees.  The rest was great grass plains and swamps.

The Indians built their houses where they pleased, beside the rivers or near the mountains
or on the wide plains.  What sort of houses did they live in?  They lived in tents made of
skins.  The Indian tents were called wigwams.

