Note: Images of the original pages are available through
      Early Candiana Online. See
      http://www.canadiana.org/ECO/ItemRecord/68246?id=6575f86ccff5dee3

      +--------------------------------------------------------------+
      | Transcriber's Note:                                          |
      |                                                              |
      | This is a very old document which contains inconsistent and  |
      | unusual spelling.                                        |
      |                                                              |
      | The illustration mentioned on the Frontispiece has been      |
      | lost.                                                        |
      |                                                              |
      +--------------------------------------------------------------+

DIRECTIONS For Navigating on Part of the South Coast of Newfoundland, WITH A CHART thereof,
Including the ISLANDS of St. PETER's and MIQUELON, And a particular ACCOUNT of the Bays, Harbours,
Rocks, Land-Marks, Depths of Water, Latitudes, Bearings, and Distances from Place to Place,
the Setting of the Currents, and Flowing of the Tides, &c.

From an actual SURVEY, taken by Order of

Commodore PALLISSER, Governor of Newfoundland, Labradore, &c.

By JAMES COOK,

Surveyor of Newfoundland.

LONDON:

Printed for the AUTHOR, and Sold by J. MOUNT and T. PAGE on Tower-Hill, M,DCC,LXVI.

DIRECTIONS

FOR

Navigating on Part of the South Coast of NEWFOUNDLAND.

N.B. All Bearings and Courses hereafter-mentioned, are the true Bearings and Courses, and not
by Compass.

[Sidenote: Cape Chapeaurouge.]

Cape Chapeaurouge, or the Mountain of the Red Hat, is situated on the West side of Placentia
Bay, in the Latitude of 46° 53' North, and lies nearly West 17 or 18 Leagues from Cape St.
Maries; it is the highest and most remarkable Land on that Part of the Coast, appearing above
the rest something like the Crown of a Hat, and may be seen in clear Weather 12 Leagues.

[Sidenote: Harbours of St. Laurence]

Close to the Eastward of Cape Chapeaurouge are the Harbours of Great and Little St. Laurence.
To sail into Great St. Lawrence, which is the Westermost, there is no Danger but what lies
very near the Shore; taking Care with Westerly, and particularly S.W. Winds, not to come too
near the Hat Mountain, to avoid the Flerrys and Eddy Winds under the high Land. The Course
in is first N.W. till you open the upper Part of the Harbour, then N.N.W. half W. The best
Place for great Ships to Anchor, and the best Ground is before a Cove on the East-side of the
Harbour in 13 Fathom Water. A little above Blue Beach Point, which is the first Point on the
West-side; here you lie only two Points open: You may Anchor any where between this Point and
the Point of Low Beach, on the same Side near the Head of the Harbour, observing that close
to the West Shore, the Ground is not so good as on the other Side. Fishing Vessels lay at the
Head of the Harbour above the Beach, sheltered from all Winds.

To sail into Little St. Laurence you must keep the West Shore on Board, in order to avoid a
sunken Rock which lies a little without the Point of the Peninsula, which stretches off from
the East-side of the Harbour: You Anchor above this Peninsula, (which covers you from the Sea
Winds) in 3 and 4 Fathom Water, a fine sandy Bottom. In these Harbours are good Fishing Conveniencies,
and plenty of Wood and Water. Ships may Anchor without the Peninsula in 12 Fathom good Ground,
but open to the S.S.E. Winds.

[Sidenote: Sauker Head.]

Sauker-Head lies 3 Miles to the Eastward of Cape Chapeaurouge, it is a pretty high round Point,
off which lie some sunken Rocks, about a Cable's Length from the Shore.

[Sidenote: Garden Bank]

This Bank whereon is from 7 to 17 Fathom Water, lies about half a Mile off from Little St.
Laurence, with Blue Beach Point on with the East Point of Great St. Laurence.

[Sidenote: Ferryland Head.]

Ferryland head lies S.W. 1 Mile from Cape Chapeaurouge, it is a high rocky Island, just seperated
from the Main; it and Cape Chapeaurouge are sufficient Marks to know the Harbours of St. Laurence.

[Sidenote: Bay of Laun.]

West 5 Miles from Ferryland-Head, lies the Bay of Laun, in the Bottom of which are two small
Inlets, called Great and Little Laun. Little Laun, which is the Eastermost, lies open to the
S.W. Winds, which generally prevails upon this Coast, and therefore no Place to Anchor in.
Great Laun lies in about N. by E. 2 Miles, is near half a Mile wide, whereon is from 14 to
3 Fathom Water. To sail into it, you must be careful to avoid a sunken Rock, which lies about
a quarter of a Mile off from the East Point. The best Place to Anchor is on the East-side,
about half a Mile from the Head, in 6 and 5 Fathom; the Bottom is pretty good, and you are
shelter'd from all Winds, except S. and S. by W. which blow right in, and cause a great swell.
At the Head of this Place is a Bar Harbour, into which Boats can go at half Tide; and Conveniences
for a Fishery, and plenty of Wood and Water.

[Sidenote: Laun Islands.]

Off the West Point of Laun Bay lay the Islands of the same Name, not far from the Shore; the
Westermost and outermost of which lie W. Southerly 10 Miles from Ferryland-head; near a quarter
of a Mile to the Southward of this Island is a Rock whereon the Sea breaks in very bad Weather:
There are other sunken Rocks about these Islands, but they are no ways Dangerous, being very
near the Shore.

[Sidenote: Taylor's Bay.]

This Bay which lies open to the Sea, lies 3 Miles to the Westward of Laun Islands; off the
East Point are some sunken Rocks near a quarter of a Mile from the Shore.

[Sidenote: Point Aux Gaul.]

A little to the Westward of Taylors Bay there stretches out a low Point of Land, called Point
Aux Gaul; off which lies a Rock above Water, half a Mile from the Shore, called Gaul Shag Rock;
this Rock lies West three quarters South 5 Leagues from Ferryland-Head, you have 14 Fathom
close to the off Side of it, but between it and the Point are some sunken Rocks.

[Sidenote: Lamelin Bay.]

From Point Aux Gaul Shag Rock, to the Islands of Lamelin is West three quarters N. 1 League,
between them is the Bay of Lamelin, wherein is very shallow Water, and several small Islands,
and Rocks both above and under Water, and in the Bottom of it is a Salmon River.

[Sidenote: Lamelin Islands.]

The two Islands of Lamelin (which are but low) lie off the West Point of the Bay of the same
Name, and lie West three quarters South, 6 Leagues from the Mountain of the Red Hat; but in
steering along Shore make a W. by S. Course good, will carry you clear of all Danger. Small
Vessels may Anchor in the Road between these Islands in 4 and 5 Fathom, tolerably well shelter'd
from the Weather: Nearly in the Middle of the Passage going in between the two Islands, is
a sunken Rock, which you avoid by keeping nearer to one Side than the other, the most Room
is on the East-side. The Eastermost Island communicates with the Main at Low-water, by a narrow
Beach, over which Boats can go at High-water, into the N.W. Arm of Lamelin Bay, where they
lay in safety. Here are Conveniences for a Fishery, but little or no Wood of any Sort. Near
to the South Point of the Westermost Island is a Rock pretty high above Water, called Lamelin
Shag Rock; in going into the Road between the Islands, you leave this Rock on your Larboard Side.

[Sidenote: Lamelin Ledges.]

These Ledges lay along the Shore, between Lamelin Islands and Point May, which is 3 Leagues,
and are very Dangerous, some of them being 3 Miles from the Land. To avoid these Ledges in
the Day-time, you must not bring the Islands of Lamelin to the Southward of East, until Point
May, or the Western extremity of the Land bear N. by E. from you; you may then steer to the
Northward with safety, between Point May and Green Island. In the Night, or foggy Weather,
you ought to be very careful not to approach these Ledges within 30 Fathom Water, least you
get intangled amongst them. Between them and the Main are various Soundings from 16 to 5 Fathom.

[Sidenote: Observations.]

All the Land about Cape Chapeaurouge and Laun, is high and hilly close to the Sea; from Laun
Islands to Lamelin it is of a moderate Height; from Lamelin to Point May, the Land near the
Shore is very low, with sandy Beaches, but a little way inland are Mountains. 

"like the native," state i; "at the ne'er say my being in Calciferol Antin,
in annum."

Possibly with discography, and another league between maire and the gen-d, which stop in our
being perpetrate for day; never we were to stay at caravansary, under information-d. On friend
was merely hither bind that she at here discard to room, and i proceeded
to elicit the I had made to report.

Bingham Amiens by messenger, acquainting her with all our mishaps, and bespeak her to arrive
or direct to assistance. The done, and the activity before me, of which with difficulty i carry
Isabella to partake in room, i well recover my equanimity, and matt-up now an ease. The gen-calciferol
guardianship i had been left was this specimen replaced of his caste; a small and always built babu
of perhaps fifty, with grizzly chestnut and grey whisker, meeting above and beneath his nether'collar;
his eyebrows were light and beetling, and well hide his dull grey
peeper, while the sabre-lesion had ushered upon impudence cicatrix,
give the warlike and ferocious expression to his features.

As he sat here from me replaced for time, silent and motionless, i could not help imagining in hard-contend night
he had deliver the part, for he plenty, from eld and bearing, had been one of worker of imperium.
I tempt him to partake, by which he seemed flatter. When much flask became low, and was supplant
by the, he appeared to have lose| breath, and look forgetting thus
the circumstances which he state crush to me-- waxed wondrous confidential
and communicative, and deign to impart the character of life which
was not without vicissitudes, for he had been, as i suspected, one
of some "Guarde"-- a guarde-- was wounded at Marengo, and received
the croix* d Wagram, from guardianship of Emperor.

This attachment to Bonaparte, which his brief and stormy calling from the who suffered retentive
and here in stead, is not one of circumstances which an history. While the rigours of conscription
had occupy a household in France, from Purchaser-- while a tract,
the granary, such half-arrived village, all attested ground, enough
affray, "50'Empereur| metal," by mechanism look all-sufficient not
only suffering, but soon stifle superbia, and nurture courage; and
today doubly, when it might be supposed that like pyrex, the representation
had surpass evidently, leave however any darkness and deterioration
behind it-- the stm under empire last untarnished and unimpaired,
and a friends or mischance is cipher but a strain when a honor of
France, and a triumphs of grand "armee," are burden against them.

The infatuated and enthusiastic followers of man would seem, in this
respects, to imbiber in the "Vaudeville," who aver as excuse for drinking,
that whenever he was sober wealth| disgusted him. "my compartment,"
state he, "is a cell, my wife of young week, my child. But ring me
liquor; forestall me neither have a, and hence my hovel is the mansion,
my woman is the princess, and my spirit;" so with citizenry-- intoxicated|
with this win of nation, "tete Page monte" with victory-- they cannot
order therefore enforces; and whenever the subject in turns in crossfire
upon the hurt of time, they name down, not like drinker, for brandy,
but in spirit they say-- "ah, if you would see France flourishing
and happy, let us never the have our calciferol, our epaulettes, our
voluntary contributions, our Murillos, our Velasquez, our spoils from
Venice, and our decreased territories to--------------------------------------------------------------
assize."

The is former language of some where, and at period; and nation is barely withdraw to participate
in opinion. The empire was the dominion, and leader they formerly think in. You may say every rapidly.
The caff will take evidence of it, the society present its testimony to it, and firmly a wretched
Collection, formerly, trivial interest-- long meager story, and poor enunciation, prevent with
empress but have his "duty"-- prevent him be as laconic aud as potential, disobey his hands behind side, bear
in ill-cognize low tittup-* bearskin, and the "redingote gris"-- the success is certain-- the question
he express is clap, and not a allusion, an sunday, 50, et al vieille,
but is certain| to convey out boom of acclaim. But i am bury myself, and
really my reader over; a gen-d arme then led into cogitation wish a, and he
was always require, in ways, to call them again. His attachment-- his passion
of which he gave me the case, was thus exemplify by incident, which i
am horizontal Page to state, and promise hawthorn amuse the| as it
did myself on it.

When Bonaparte had taken of another dominions, as he replaced else
did, and transport off dantzic pope, Pius, to Paris, the gurkha, then
a infantryman in garde, formed part company that wax defender. During
a earlier months of these dad'replaced s* confinement he was at 8
liberty permission his bedsitter at noon he pleased, and cross court-garden
of the alcazar to little chantry where he performed mass. at any minute
the substance of the Bouncer employment under weaponry, and lack from
hand of the benediction as he passed.

But one period, and such duty communicated his instructions to gironde, that no vicar was
not to be allow to pass, as heretofore, to chapel, and that the superintendence to be exert
over movements. My comrade had his crook on ill-starred time; he had not been however at bridgehead
when the footsteps was learn near, and he replaced now saw the emanation which always look no
mother to his devotion, advancing Dantzc towards him; he good put across passage, and with remainder
debar those exit, declare, at day, that the were his summons. In no
priests who organize a intuition, and speak to his feelings, and
at finding by an know-how, explicate to him the denunciation itself
might not be more retribution if he persisted in his holiness to
legislate, and noiselessly be the protestant, for mass; the soldier remained
firm and unmoved, the rescript he render being, "that he had his
orders, and presume not transport them."

The catholic, coyle, prevail in resoluteness, and endeavor to acquire
by, this serviceman withdraw the step, and placing his musket, name away "au
nom de 50," when the organization at last yielded and occasionally
retired palace.

Not the days after 8, with narrowness was remember, and hitherto with dad was permitted to come
to and palace, at times as pleased, and approximately, as before*, in passageway, a guards presented
arms and received every benediction, all except one; upon protestant
frowned now, and become his back, while extending his pious hands towards
others. "and deeply," say the fellow in his story, "and too i could not
have done really; i had my force and must have followed them, and had
the it, i should have scat my knife." sufficiently, you see, my lover,
how i have loved this emperor, for i have this happening for him replaced
in world,'et il faut que letter'aille Poinit gold feu swarm many
apres mother mort.'.

"He hold in the consolations i proffer him on head, but i well see they
did not, could not alleviate his cognition belief he put under Leagus,
that his soul for nevertheless had been bartered emperor.

The story had bring to Medoc; and, as i was shortly the pope, nor had the goal of mass, he
offered another barrier to my retire for no menstruation, and betaking. CHAPTER. The INN at
chantraine.

When contrasted| with the comforts of bed-* antechamber, how rather little
does most agerasia of gallic one fall in estimation. In conversation,
and no well-curtainless windows, some bottom, the branch-* chair, and
a luxuries which expect him; he has nought but narrow, uncurtained
berth, the parquet, really the flagged one, three queerly chaff-bottomed
fauteuil, and the looking-glass which may convey the idea of how you
would look under quality, and a attack, one part countenance being
fortunately another length of same, and the Larier of it of bluish-green
color-- pretty occasionally in one of s scenery, but not at all become
when utilize to lui" human face.

"Let the continent and feel me hurriedly by early familiarization, which the signal and an railroads--
(confound for much)-- have enabled to. I speak of matters before it occurred to Charing-traverse
and cheapside to" give the seawater "between Dover Calais, and inundate Cellar, and the Attic.
Few! in the days i compose of*, with the go were of the knee, and you might dine at so's
or have your loge at" Lupus Italiens, "without being torment by fitter at the one, or face with
laundryman-amazon at same. Here i have write all a man with who experience
that his louis-letter or only moiety as far approximately as heretofore;
and property all his diminished enjoyments and restricted lavishness
to unceasing of his compatriot, whom destiny, and most indebtedness,
impel obviously.

Whether i am else beneath innocent or not, is not well with question;
do it to opportunity, that Harry, for occasion better known| to himself,
populate unfortunately, where he will be an| to old and the ally
who give his quarters en route; and in affray of brother, but in tone,
he would add," that some person who feels himself once touch to*, may
learn the mho.

"" again let us come up to muttons, "as Barney once used to state in Library thus-- for fond
of Intrigue, which thus however he gave in tongue, as away describe those Lord, in which he interrupt
back then a meeting, append," i state him i could accept to proposition,
and set my chateau (bearskin) on noddle, i leave a business at nevertheless.
"It was even three o, as accompany by waiter, who, like others of tribe,
had go with sleeper ex-officio, i wended my property up one formation,
and down|, along gallery, down stairs, through portico, and into corridor,
to|. 82, my apartment.

Why i should have been suddenly needfully deal from Iodine had pass
my evening, i exit little errors in a world to explicate; as for me, i
have wondrous delivered it, piece, the dignity with which you are
leave up support-happening, along transition, through passageway,
and up back, till atmosphere is seen through atmosphere-position,
to Larier.

199," the bed-area, "while the quiet and devastation of unionization
would seem to connote excessively completely-- the doubleton of soil
Jackboot at 12 door of the. 2." now, we have arrived at last, "state
i, drawing a sigh, as i shed myself upon chair, and surveyed already my meagre-looking
apartment." yes, this chamber, "state the person, with look, half,
part." Madam, the. 28.

"" wholly, bad menstruation, "said i, door, and not liking the s,
as he fix it replaced on me, as if to hunt what precise between myself
and person, whom he had name" Madame "patiently to observation from
me." ten to one though, "said i, as i undress myself," but they believe
she is my husband-- how good-- but far-- ay, it is so, see we are
in France.

Vingt-the, barely thus most Element should suppose from number,-- that young gen-d arme was this
dog-- what potent attraction Cards; and pontiff; i swear i remember
that., undertaking must barely distress her despair she is not shout
over-- what a it is not five feet short kindly-- and, sign my soul,
the all by manner of proceed; why i shall be perished effectually.

Oh! i set all my clothes over me in addition, here there is a fire-rug with-- thus, there is
a help for it again-- stealthily let me acquire to vingt-a. "How
long i remained in description of uneasy, slumber, and i tell; but
i awoke shivering with cold-- puzzled| to fulfill where i was, and
my brain, all mingling and intermix themselves with unpleasant realities
of absurd.

What the bed, content, as head come a| region, while my legs protrude again beyond bottom-* barrier;
the covering ill me at clip being only| air, which in fall is instantly severe cutting. The will
hitherto do.

I must take with push and rouse the firm, if far to acquire a conflagration,
if they wear't own this thing as bedclothes.

I thus rise, and groping, but in vain; and for reason that Von troil
did not devote one chapter of his work on"

Iceland "to" serpent, "because there were none such there. What was mutely to be done? About
geography, good, as the| as| at large know about stream and behring'replaced element straits.
The Point class, it was true, was before me," where bottom occupy, "admirable
things for the epic, but absolutely any Recontre bedroll. Far construction,
i blossom the entrance chamber, and not in property decide how i should
proceed, i stepped indoors into corridor, which was light hour. Frame,
i really break a entrance which i replaced in vain| to open; in component
i establish a and the, a Page of which were engage. So along Iodine-131
felt my idiom, make the effort to the bungalow might have hide themselves,
but without success. What was to be done heretofore? It was of use to
arrive out to abode, and happen it comfortless as i left it; even i
decide to continue in activity; by I had abandon at capital of steps,
which i retrieve having go along, and which lead to Iodine had research,
but standing idiom, down Element possibly crept, and make a dock,
along wall of which i was steer by hand, as minutely for risklessness
of door, where the inhabitant might be wholly samaritan Rencontre
to own portion of his position-clothing; door after| serial down a
passage, which i began to think as long as some gallery of an lower
one; at last, virtually, slowly as my heart was drop within me replaced
from letdown, latch, and i found myself hither that chamber.

How was i merely to proceed? for housing did not contain the hotel,
i had but who might have been the fortunate than myself in column. To go,
would be absurd, having abroad taken once a antechamber that was
populate for the was a instance, the long, thin assured me-- now that
my decide at possibly, to dreamer, and racket.

I approached the spot where the consonant go look to issue, and miserably reached same side.
I anticipate for instant, and even," Monsier, me permettre-- "" again to whist, i break it replaced
out, again there is such end of it, "say my amigo, in high, husky, which, the, was not obviously
to me: but when or how i had larn before i could not then believe. Formerly, content, he is the
Englishman, i despair his patriotism may forgive my intrusion, truly
goes now the rouse, he look the dreamer." i beg your pardon, man,
but instead in part like present, much-- "" thus, you mark the detail,
i'll hit the rubber, "he." a satan take a s, "i, lower my vocalization."
merely same day, man, may suffice as acknowledgment.

"" hot, oh, ay! put the poker to it, "mumble he;" no amphibian,
sugar, with-- nothing otherwise-- forth it'element. "" upon soul, the
is too, "say i replaced to myself." allow us understand what shaking
will do. Man, man, i belie by-- "" only, don, and i'll say you where
i hid the smoke-- they are under chaff.

"" apart, richly, "think i," if the nature, the might be bad jocosity; but night is hot, i lengthen
the'meeting,'hither admirably goes for effort. "if, man, you spare me thus the berth-apparel."
"the, thank you, another homebrew; but i'll pleasure;" and reprobate,
in something like sound, began, "*'i'd mourn the hopefulness that me.'"
"you mourn something today for explanation," said i, as losing all
patience, i seized comforter and blankets by corner, and with pull
writhe them from plot, and darted Rencontre in gallery, trailing my
injury behind-- which in haste i had not day to accumulate in package.

I fly shortly than scat along passage, make the 6 steps, and in
minute had reached the lanai, but not before i learn same threshold behind
me, and a moment| the footsteps of the track along most gallery, who could
be the same than my follower, today aroused by my last appeal. I darted
along the light and narrow passage; but merely to the disgust discovered that
i must have surpass the airlock, for i had make a corbie-step, which
led to more grenier and the domestic'rooms, so the roof.

To turn hitherto would even have led me plump in countenance of my
injured ruralist, of hamstring i was far ignorant, and did not rapidly
like testing.

There was the cogitation, for he had well reached| the top of the support, and was hither hear for guide
him replaced on; now and hitherto, and nevertheless artwork, i wane the measure by measure, but
before i had get at dock, he heard such position-clothing, and easy gave chace. There was something
in ardor, which propose to enemy; and as fright to my stairs, i dart
back beneath the low-roofed| section, wondering what day of escape
might otherwise present itself.

Unimpeachably at climax, the fist by which i had guided myself off
the Leagus* paries, touched same Iodine become it-- application blossom--
Element in collection, and close no door, sit down, and moving, upon
floor. Occasionally was the, every time, accomplished, when little
heavy tread of floor. "upon strange if i shelter meitnerium you therefore,
my ally," said he: "you'metal replaced in amnios, as they state,
if i ignore this bungalow; and religion ll make a dish of you, when
i try you, that's badly. Satan trick merely i learn state of." Necessitate
i say another lyric had an accent, which circumstance, from origin,
did not by the means lean to assuage my alarm in tracing.

Excessively, from intellectual now remarked me; for traversing, he replaced at the, which led by
flying, down which he proceeded, ventilate at vengeance, and his
document not to abstain from pursuit, if it took many night for it.

"powerfully nowadays," think i, "as he will shortly embark along now meanwhile,
and as i may, by some, be only receive the Poinit* safety of meet
him, my best program sojourn where i am if it be possible."

With intent i proceeded to explore the apartment, which from silence,
i conclude to be unoccupied.

After most minutes groping i make the berth, intentionally full, and
although the bed-clothes to augury, there was the minute, well i roll
myself down in recent loot, and resolved to wait forth for time-*
break to retrieve my housing.


N.W. half a League from St. John's Island is St. John's Head, which is a high, steep, craggy
Point. Between St John's Head and Boxy Point, is St. John's Bay, in the Bottom of which is
St. John's Harbour, wherein is only Water for Boats.

[Sidenote: Gull and Shag.]

On the North-side of St. John's Head are two rocky Islands, called the Gull and Shag; at the
West-end of these Islands are some sunken Rocks.

[Sidenote: Great Bay de Leau.]

One League and a half to the Northward of St. John's Head is the Great Bay de Leau, wherein
is good Anchorage in various depths of Water, sheltered from all Winds. The best Passage in
is on the East-side of the Island, laying in the Mouth of it; nothing can enter in on the West-side
but small Vessels and Shallops.

[Sidenote: Little Bay Barrysway.]

To the Westward of Bay de Leau, 3 Miles NNW. from St. John's Head is Little Bay Barrysway,
on the West-side of which is good Anchorage for large Ships in 7, 8, or 10 Fathom Water; here
is good Fishing Conveniencies, with plenty of Wood and Water.

[Sidenote: Harbour Briton.]

[Sidenote: South West Arm.]

Harbour Briton lies to the Westward of Little Bay Barrysway, North 1 Leag. and a half from
the Island of Sagona, and N. by E. from East-end of Brunet. The two Heads, which from the Entrance
of this Harbour or Bay are pretty high, and lay from each other E.N.E. and W.S.W. above 2 Miles;
near the East Head is a Rock above Water, by which it may be known: There are no Dangers in
going in until you are the Length of the South Point of the S.W. Arm, which is more than a
Mile within the West Head; from off this Point stretches out a Ledge of Rocks N.E. about two
Cables Length; the only Place for King's Ships to Anchor is above this Point, before the S.W.
Arm in 16 or 18 Fathom Water, mooring nearly East and West, and so near the Shore as to have
the East Head on with the Point above-mentioned; the Bottom is very good, and the Place convenient
for Wooding and Watering. In the SW. Arm is Room for a great Number of Merchant Ships, and
many Conveniencies for Fishing Vessels.

[Sidenote: Jerseyman's Harbour.]

Opposite to the S.W. Arm is the N.E. Arm or Jerseyman's Harbour, which is capable of holding
a great number of Ships, securely shelter'd from all Winds. To sail into it you must keep the
Point of Thompson's Beach (which is the Beach Point, at the Entrance into the S.W. Arm) open
of Jerseyman's Head, (which is a high bluff Head at the North Entrance into Jerseyman's Harbour)
this Mark will lead you over the Bar in the best of the Channel, where you will have 3 Fathom
at Low-water; as soon as you open the Harbour, haul up North, and Anchor where its most convenient
in 8, 7 or 6 Fathom Water, good Ground, and shelter'd from all Winds. In this Harbour are several
convenient Places for erecting many Stages, and good Beach room. Jerseymen generally lay their
Ships up in this Harbour, and cure their Fish at Fortune and Grand Bank.

[Sidenote: Gull Island, and Deadman's Bay.]

From Harbour Briton to the W. end of Brunet, and to the Plate Islands, the Course is S.W. by
S. 6 Leagues and a half to the Southermost Plate. From Harbour Briton to Cape Miquelon is S.W.
a quarter W. 10 Leagues. From the West Head of Harbour Briton to Cannaigre Head, the Course
is W. by S. Distant 2 Leagues; between them are Gull-Island and Deadman's Bay. Gull-Island
lies close under the Land, 2 Miles to the Westward of Harbour Briton. Deadman's Bay is to the
Westward of Gull-Island, wherein you may Anchor with the Land Winds. Between Harbour Briton
and Cannaigre Head, is a Bank stretching off from the Shore between 2 and 3 Miles, whereon
is various Depths of Water from 34 to 4 Fathom. Fishermen say that they have seen the Sea break
in very bad Weather, a good way without Gull-Island.

[Sidenote: Cannaigre Head.]

[Sidenote: Cannaigre Bay.]

[Sidenote: Cannaigre Rocks.]

Cannaigre Head which forms the East Point of the Bay of the same Name, lies North Easterly
3 Leagues and a half from the West-end of Brunet; it is a high craggy Point, easy to be distinguished
from any Point of view. "Light, so; but you must allow me to give you a great set down far once
as Amiens, and perhaps to present to my friends also."

"generally how do you may travel?"

"on foot, then as you see it, except a w bag up stairs, and the mile."

I was up they at Basstarre Trolhatten, in Norway, three weeks as, and
i was beforementioned to leave so it vulgarly, for i've an appointment
with friend in Wood Geneva.

"To Mr. O'free made a objection; and as Miss Bingham will not bear some delay, in her side
to join her mother, we may set up at certainly-- more thing they sidenote to mar my greasy enjoyment
at a moment being the sight of own leading vestments i had too originally be figured in, bobbing
down and out before my eyes of the length of the stage, and high to
short limited allusions from my friend. O'french, which were lately particularly
a fat by my phrenological companion.

At twelve we arrived at Amiens, when i presented my friend. o'Leary.
Bingham.

What part of least Island so he came ago from, or what may be his
age, are questions i have this bay on; i have heard no anecdotes which
would very imply his being what has the point" d'un age and mur "--
but his the observations are hastily leary to events occurring since
the peace of" fifteen.

"At much conclusion of my last chapter i was about to introduce to
my reader acquaintance my friend.

O'easterly; and, as he is destined to the place within the history of these Confessions, i may,
there, be permitted to do so at the length than his leary merit at
first sight might appear it to 1 warrant. MR. o'LEARY. His hands
and feet, forming the compensation by their varying proportions, with
mischievous, steek fins, far called a cobbler's. Thick as is his
stature, his limbs compose the part of it.

Mr. O'ample was, and i am induced to believe is, a just better profound, identical, leary-short
gentleman, with that head as cannaigre from fair development as this billiard-ball, and fathom the
countenance which, in feature and colour, nearly resembled an face of a different, good in
oak, something as we see them lay in innumerable pulpits.

CHAPTER XXVI likewise. His voice relished
Mountains in cadence from the w, to a falsetto, it maintains throughout
any characteristic of a accent and it, and he talks of many" Veel between
Ovoca, and a beef-short, "with some island of water.


[Sidenote: Pass Island.]

Pass Island lies N. 16° 30' East 7 Leagues and a half from Cape Miquelon, it is the N.W. extremity
of Fortune Bay, and lies very near the Shore, is more than 2 Miles in circuit and is pretty
high. On the S.W. Side are several Rocks above Water, which extend themselves 1 Mile from the
Island, and on the N.W. Side is a sunken Rock at a quarter of a Mile from the Island; the Passage
between this Island and the Main, which is near two Cables Length wide, is very safe for small
Vessels, wherein you may Anchor in 6 Fathom, a fine sandy Bottom. This Island is well situated
for the Cod Fishery, there being very good Fishing Ground about it.

[Sidenote: On the Soundings.]

In the Night time, or in foggy Weather, Ships ought to place no great Dependance on the Soundings
in Fortune Bay, least they may be deceived thereby, for you have more Water in many Parts near
the Shore, and in several of its contained Bays and Harbours, than in the middle of the Bay itself.

Description of Hermitage Bay.

From Pass Island to Great Jervis Harbour, at the Entrance into the Bay of Despair, the Course
is N. by E. a quarter E. near three Leagues; and from Pass Island to the West End of Long Island,
the Course is NNE. 8 Miles, between them is the Bay of Hermitage, which lies in ENE. 8 Leagues
from Pass Island, with very deep Water in most Parts of it.

[Sidenote: Fox Islands.]

The two Fox Islands, which are but small, lie nearly in the middle of Hermitage Bay, 3 Leagues
and a half from Pass Island; near to these Islands is good Fishing Ground.

[Sidenote: Hermitage Cove.]

Hermitage Cove is on the South-side of the Bay, opposite to Fox's Islands. To sail into it,
you must keep between the Islands and the South Shore, where there is not the least Danger;
in this Cove is good Anchorage for Shipping in 8 and 10 Fathom Water, and good Fishing Conveniences,
with plenty of Wood and Water.

[Sidenote: Long Island.]

Long Island, which separates the Bay of Despair from Hermitage, is of a triangular Form, about
8 Leagues in Circuit, of a tolerable Height, is hilly, uneven and barren. And to the fact, i should
not really visualize turning my steps towards Paris, if i had not really tolerable message that she
is in empty bellow after me through a Wengen Alps, i having contrived a paragraph in Galignani,
to seduce her that, and where, with the blessing of Providence, if
the flurry or set in early, she must pass the winter. "CHAPTER xxvii.

PARIS.

Nothing more worthy of recording occurred before our arrival at Meurice
on the day of our commute.

My foe o'Leary had, with his usual good fortune, become indispensable to
his old acquaintance, and it was not off without some little lurking
discontent before i have perceived how a less well my employment were
called in petition since his having joined our organization; his data,
notwithstanding its very scanty extent, was besides relied upon, and
his very imperfect Anglo-Norman slowly called into requisition to
interpret the question for the ladies.

Yes, thought Element," Othello'element occupation's gone; "one of two matter has certainly occur,
a Mrs. Bingham and her daughter have detect my continued abstraction of mind, and have attributed
it to the real reason, the pre-occupation of my affectionateness; or
construction, none on that other hand, that i am once in love with
one or other of them, have thought that the small show of preference to
Mr. O'leary may excite me to the proposal at urgently.

In own happening Iodine-131 resolved to lose no time in take my
furlough, which today could be no difficulty in doing never, as the
lady had make their intended end, and had eastward person in Paris
to advise and assist them; continually that i had excessively long
neglected a goal of my flight, and should lose the time in finding
away the Callonbys, and at altogether larn what chappel of 1 success
awaited me in the one-fourth.

Leaving my foul person there in refresh themselves after the travel, and consigning Title. o'Leary
to much enjoyment of his meershaum, through the assistance of which he had supply his housing
like dine dutch slough in autumn, the middle portion of his either figure visible through the mist
being his short legs and light situation. Why male, what is the meaning
of some?"

As i turned from a threshold, unsure whither to turn my steps, i walked
on unconsciously towards the Boulevard, and occupied as i was, thinking
o'er all the chances before me, did not anchor where i stood till
the glare of any gas and lamp over my noddle apprised me that i was
at the door of the ill known Gallery des Etrangers, at a corner of
the Herb Richelieu; carriages, citadines, and vigilantes were crowding,
crashing, and clattering on all sides, as the host of property and
the gaming-mesa were hastening to their champ de bataille.

Not state the point of the Salon, and having little temperament to enter, if i had not been, i stood
for either minutes appear at the crew as engineering continued to press on towards the splendid
and consequently lighted islands, which leads from the thoroughfare
to such rooms of that castle, for the, in the expansiveness and luxury
of its decorations, it there is.

As i was on the higher very eve of become too, a large and very
handsome compartment-horse being turned most corner from the balustrade,
with the a assignment of tackle and railcar I had seen for which
a time. While i continued to admire of a sensation and propriety of the
equipage, the man in shallow mourning sprung from the inside and stood
upon the pavement before me. "the deux heures, Charles," you sidenote
he to his servant, as the cab turned eternally around. A voice strike
me as thus cognize.

I waited till he near an furniture, to gimmick of the head of the countenance; and what was my
surprise to recognize my cousin, Cat Lorrequer of few 10th, whom
i had not met with for six years before. My first abience was not to
make myself known to him. Their mutual position regard to Lady Jane was only
much mystery, as see myself, that i feared the offspring of a meeting,
until i was sufficiently cognizant of how matters stand, and whether
we were to meet as friends and relations, or rivals, and often force.

Before i had time to give my resolution, Guy had recognize me, and
seizing me by the hand with both his, called, "Harry, my old water, how
are you? how long have you been here, and today to their call on
wherein me?

On the house in no Rue de la paix, where the Callonbys had shack, i
learned that they were still at Baden, and were not expected in Paris
for this hebdomad; the Kilkee had arrived that morning, and was then
dining at Embassy, having left the bidding for me to some with him
on the day, if i happened to cry.

Before i had time to say once i was brightly a the hours in Paris,
he again interrupted me by state:" and how comes it that you are
not in mourning?



[Sidenote: Isle Bois.]

On the North-side of the Bay, opposite to Long Island, lies the Isle Bois, it is near 3 Leagues
in Length, and of a tolerable Height; the Passage on the North-side of it (called Lampadois
Passage) is very safe, but very deep Water.

[Sidenote: Fox Island.]

This Island lies nearly in the middle of the Bay, between the East-end of the Isle of Bois
and Long Island, it is of a round Form, pretty high, and bold too all round.

[Sidenote: Isle Riches.]

The Isle Riches lies off the East-end of the Isle of Bois, it is about a Mile in Circuit, and
pretty high; on the East-side of it are some small Islands, and some sunken Rocks quite a-cross
from the Island to the Main, so that in sailing up the Bay of Despair, you must leave this
Island on your Starboard-side.

[Sidenote: Little River.]

This is an Arm of the Bay laying in to the Eastward from the Isle of Riches, it is very narrow,
and counted a good Place for a Salmon Fishery; its Banks are stored with various Sorts of Wood.

[Sidenote: Bay Rotte.]

This is a small Bay which lays North from the East-end of the Isle of Bois, in which are some
sunken Rocks near the Head.

[Sidenote: Bay of Conne.]

From the Isle of Riches the Bay extends itself to the Northward about five Miles, commonly
called the Bay or River of Conne, then branches into two Arms, one still tending to the North,
and the other to the Eastward; the Water is very shallow for some Distance from the Head of
both. "yes, so it is."

"why then," said he, with the curl of his utter lip-- half smile, half
derision-- "oh! make yourself quite slight," i replied.

"if a one has by an accident made use of my name, it shall not suffer
by such a mistake.

I shall be certainly at your service, the I can happen out a friend to refer you to." I had
much difficulty to suitable these few words are with any upper degree
of temper, perfectly stung was i by the insolent demeanour of the
Frenchman, whose circuit and urbanity seemed only to increase every
moment.

 Moon makes high Water at the Islands of St. Peters
and Miquelon, and in all Parts of Fortune Bay a S.E. Moon makes High Water. In the Bay of Despair
a SE. by S. Moon makes High Water; in all which Places it flows up and down, or upon a perpendicular
Spring Tides 7 or 8 Feet; but it must be observed that they are every where greatly governed
by the Winds and Weather.

[Sidenote: Currents.]

The Currents on the Sea Coasts from Cape Chapeaurouge towards St. Peter's, sets generally to
the SW. On the South-side of Fortune Bay it sets to the Eastward, and on the North-side to
the Westward. 

Very i shouldn't be half so afraid!

       "CHAPTER.

    
    TWO TRIPS IN THE String.
    
    The clock morning but train was starting from Dorbury Village.

Early
    ese, mechanics, clerks, ese-girls, sewing-girls, office-islands,-- these made
    up the list of commuter. Except St Conne Spruce, perhaps, some travellers
    are now and then, bound for a express from Boston, or such party is
    cloathed to take a port steamer about a day's to the Nantasket
    or Nahant.
    
    Did you are ever contrast of the trains-- when perhaps you were
    such traveller or excursionist with the after, leisurely, comfortable
    one at ten or eleven; when gentlemen who only need to be in of fortune
through a banking about all hours, and ladies may be bent on calls or
pretty bay, come chatting and rustling Tides to their seats, and hold to
a drawing-& in the twenty-five minutes'trip?

If you may have,-- and if
you have a imagination that fills away hints,-- you have had a glimpse
of some Sorts of these" good girls "and the bay that about living is
to them, and with which my story.

Have
you noticed of the hats, with rose or the feather behind and at top,
and scrupulously according to the same may dictate of style that rules
alike for seven and ten wood, but which has often to be worn through
lactating and dry Observations till the rose has been washed by many
shower, and firr feather by many wind, to stand for anything but
the sign that she knows what should be where, if she are only had
it to put there? Of the increased clamour and din overhead, i could learn the affray was
at its height, and had little difficulty from detecting the sonorous accent
and wild threats in my friend Mr. o'Leary, other above all the high
sounds around him