POEMS;

      BY

      THOMAS GENT.

      LONDON

      1828.

ADVERTISEMENT.

Some of the Pieces in this volume have been separately published, at different times; the indulgence,
I may say favour, with which they were individually received, has encouraged me to collect
and re-publish them. I have added many others, which are now first printed. I shall be well
satisfied, if they find as favourable a reception as their precursors; and are thought not
to have increased the size, without at all increasing the merit, of the book.

I cannot omit this opportunity of thanking those Critics, who have honoured me by reviewing
my verses. I owe them my warm acknowledgments for candidly measuring my Poems by their pretensions.
They have looked at them as they really were;--as the amusements of the leisure hours of a
man whose fortune will not favour his inclination to devote himself to poetry; and conceiving
a favourable opinion of them in that character, have kindly expressed it.

London, December, 1827.

During the progress of these pages through the press, it has pleased Providence to inflict
upon me the severest calamity that domestic life can sustain. In the private sorrows of the
humble candidate for literary fame, I am aware that the world will feel no interest, yet humanity
will forgive the weakness that struggles under such a bereavement, and will pardon the tear
that falls upon such a tomb. If, indeed, the Being who is lost to her family and society were
endowed only with those gifts and graces, which are shared by thousands of her sex, I should
have been silent at this moment. To those who knew her,[1] and to know her was to esteem and
love, this tribute will be superfluous; but to those who knew her not, I would say, that, superadded
to every natural advantage, to the charms of every polite accomplishment, and to a cheerful
and sincere piety, she was deeply imbued with the love of literature and of science. In these,
her Lectures on the Physiology of the External Senses exhibit a splendid proof of her acquirements
in their highest walks, and are an imperishable memorial of her patient and laborious research.
They who were present at the delivery of these Lectures will not soon forget the effect of
her impressive elocution, chastened as it was by as unaffected modesty as ever adorned and
dignified a woman. I speak of that which she performed--that which her capacious mind had meditated
I forbear to mention. For the advancement of her sex in pursuits that are intellectual she
made many sacrifices, both of her feelings and her time; yet, in all she did, and in all she
contemplated, usefulness was her end and aim--but I must not proceed; less than this I could
not say--more than this might be deemed ostentatious.

What earthly tongue, and, oh! what human pen
  Can tell that scene of suffering, too severe.
'Tis ever present to my sight, oh! when
  Will the sound cease its torture on mine ear?

Oh! my lost love, thou patient Being, never!
  Thy dying look of love can I forget;
The last fond pressure of thy hand, for ever!
  Thrills in my veins, I see thy struggles yet.

Thy sculptured beauty is before me now:
  In thy calm dignity, and sweet repose,
Alas! sad memory re-invests thy brow,
  With death's stern agony, and pain's last throes.

Desolate heart be still--forgive, oh God!
  The cries of feeble nature stricken sore.
Father! assuage the terrors of thy rod.
  Teach me to see thy wisdom--and adore!

[Footnote 1: I cannot resist the melancholy gratification of quoting from the Literary Gazette,
of August 18, in which the death of Mrs. Gent was announced to the public.--"Science has, since
our last, suffered a severe lost by the death of this accomplished lady; she was well known
for her high attainments as a Lecturer, and her Course on the Physiology of the External Senses
was a perfect model of elegant composition and refined oratory. Mrs. Gent died at the residence
of her husband, Thomas Gent, Esq. Doctor's Commons, after a month of severe suffering, which
she bore with singular fortitude, and the most pious resignation. There is a fine bust of her,
by Behnes; it was in the Exhibition two years since, and, from its intrinsic simplicity and
beauty alone, has had many casts made from it."

And one of the most distinguished Poets of the present day, will, I am sure, forgive me if
I quote his beautiful words in writing to me on this subject--for his talents she had the highest
admiration, and no one was better able than himself to appreciate the excellence of her character.--"As
to condolence, I never condole--what condolence could any one offer for the loss of so estimable
a being as has been lost to society in your accomplished wife? I had a very great respect and
esteem for her, and it would have highly gratified me to have been able to lighten the least
of her trials; but what avails writing or visiting on occasions of such real pain. She lived
a most amiable being--and for such there is the highest hope in the Highest World. If I had
conceived that her illness was at all serious, I should have gone to gather wisdom from her
for my own hour--but now, that all her anxieties are past, I can invent no condolence."]

CONTENTS.

Poems
Mature Reflections
The Grave of Dibdin
A Sketch from Life
On the Portrait of the Son of J.G. Lambton, Esq.
Written in the Album of the Lady of Counsellor D. Pollock
The Heliotrope
Sonnet On seeing a Young Lady I had previously known,
     confined in a Madhouse
Prometheus
Rosa's Grave
The Sibyl. A Sketch
Love
On a delightful Drawing in my Album
Stanzas
Shakspeare
Impromptu. To Oriana, on attending with her, as Sponsors,
     at a Christening
To my Spaniel Fanny
Widowed Love
Written to the Lady of Dr. George Birkbeck
The Chain-pier, Brighton. A Sketch
Sonnet. Morning.
On the Death of Dr. Abel
Sonnet. Night.
Constancy. To ------
Epistle to a Friend
Here in our Fairy Bowers we Dwell. A Glee
Henry and Eliza
Written on the Death of General Washington
To ------
Monody on the Right Hon. R.B. Sheridan
On the beautiful Portrait of Mrs. Forman, as Pandora
Sonnet. To ------, on her Recovery from Illness
To Margaret Jane H------, on her Birth-day
The Runaway
On Reading the Poem of "Paris."
On the Death of Gen. Sir R. Abercrombie
Retaliation
Lines, written in a Copy of the Poem on the Princess Charlotte
Sonnet
To Robert Soothey, Esq. on reading his "Remains of Henry Kirke White"
The State Secret. An Impromptu
The Morning Call
Sonnet
On the Rupture of the Thames' Tunnel
Anacreontic. "The Wisest Men are Fools in Wine."
Lines, written in Hornsey Wood
To Mary
Black Eyes and Blue
Epigram. Auri Sacra Fames
Sonnet. To Faith
On a Spirited Portrait, by E. Landaeer, Esq.
Sonnet. To Hope
Lines, written on the Sixth of September
Sonnet. To Charity
Hymn
Reflections of a Poet on going to a great Dinner
Sunday
A Night-Storm
On the Death of Nelson
The Blue-eyed Maid
Taking Orders. A Tale, founded on fact
The Gipsy's Home. A Glee
Sonnet. The Beggar
To ------
Song. "The Recal of the Hero."
To Eliza. Written in her Album
Elegy on the Death of A. Goldsmid, Esq.
Sonnet. On the Death of Mrs. Charlotte Smith
Mister Punch. A Hasty Sketch
Content
Epitaph. On Matilda
To ------. An Impromptu
The Steam-Boat
Sonnet To Lydia, on her Birth-day
To Sarah, while Singing
To Thaddeus
Youth and Age
Sent for the Album of the Rev. G----- C-----
Written under an elegant Drawing of a Dead Canary Bird
Lines suggested by the Death of the Princess Charlotte
The Presumptuous Fly
The Heroes of Waterloo
The Night-blowing Cereus
1827; or, the Poet's Last Poem
To the Reviewers

POEMS.

Tis sweet in boyhood's visionary mood, When glowing Fancy, innocently gay, Flings forth, like
motes, her bright aërial brood, To dance and shine in Hope's prolific ray; 'Tis sweet, unweeting
how the flight of years May darkling roll in trials and in tears, To dress the future in what
garb we list, And shape the thousand joys that never may exist. But he, sad wight! of all that
feverish train, Fool'd by those phantoms of the wizard brain, Most wildly dotes, whom young
ambition stings To trust his weight upon poetic wings; He, downward looking in his airy ride,
Beholds Elysium bloom on every side; Unearthly bliss each thrilling nerve attunes, And thus
the dreamer with himself communes. Yes! Earth shall witness, 'ere my star be set, That partial
nature mark'd me for her pet; That Phoebus doom'd me, kind indulgent sire! To mount his car,
and set the world on fire. Fame's steep ascent by easy flights to win, With a neat pocket volume
I'll begin; And dirge, and sonnet, ode, and epigram, Shall show mankind how versatile I am.
The buskin'd Muse shall next my pen descry: The boxes from their inmost rows shall sigh; The
pit shall weep, the galleries deplore Such moving woes as ne'er were heard before: Enough--I'll
leave them in their soft hysterics, Mount, in a brighter blaze, and dazzle with Homerics.

Then, while my name runs ringing through Reviews, And maids, wives, widows, smitten with my
Muse, Assail me with Platonic billet-doux. From this suburban attic I'll dismount, With Coutts
or Barclays open an account; Ranged in my mirror, cards, with burnish'd ends, Shall show the
whole nobility my friends; That happy host with whom I choose to dine, Shall make set-parties,
give his-choicest wine; And age and infancy shall gape to see The lucky bard, and whisper "That
is he!"

Poor youth! he print--and wakes, to sleep no more-- The world goes on, indifferent, as before;
And the first notice of his metric skill Comes in the likeness of--his printer's bill; To pen
soft notes no fair enthusiast stirs, Except his laundress--and who values her's? None but herself:
for though the bard may burn Her note, she still expects one in return. The luckless maiden,
all unblest shall sigh; His pocket tome hath drawn his pockets dry. His tragedy expires in
peals of laughter; And that soul-thrilling wish--to live hereafter-- Gives way to one as hopeless
quite, I fear, And far more needful--how to live while here. Where are ye now, divine illusions
all; Cheques, dinners, wines, admirers great and small! Changed to two followers, terrible
to see, Who dog his walks, and whisper "That is he!"

Rhymesters attend! nor scorn & friendly hint, Restrain your cacoëths fierce to print. But hark,
my printer's devil's at the door, My leisure cannot yield one moment more: Nor matters it,
advice can ne'er restrain Madman or poet from his bent:--'tis vain To strive to point out colours
to the blind, Or set men seeking what they will not find.

MATURE REFLECTIONS.

O Love! divinest dream of youth,
  Thy day of ecstacy is o'er,
My bosom, touch'd by time and truth,
  Thrills at thy dear deceits no more.

Nor thou, Ambition! e'er again,
  With splendour dazzling to betray,
And aspirations fierce and vain,
  Shall tempt my steps--away! away!

Alas! by stern Experience cleft,
  When life's romance is turn'd to sport;
If man hath consolation left
  On this side death--'tis good old port.

And thou, Advice! who glum and chill,
  Do'st the third bottle still gainsay;
Smile, and partake it, if you will,
  But if you wont--away! away!

THE GRAVE OF DIBDIN.

Lives there who, with unhallow'd hand, would tear, One leaf from that immortal wreath which
shades The Hero's living brow, or decks his urn? Breathes there who does not triumph in the
thought That "Nelson's language is his mother tongue," And that St. Vincent's country is his
own? Oh! these bright guerdons of renown are won By means most palpable to sense and sight;
By days of peril and by nights of toil; By Valour's long probation, closed at last In Victory's
arms--consummated and seal'd In deathless Glory and immortal Fame.

Musing I stand upon his lowly grave, Who, though he fought no battle--though he pour'd No hostile
thunders on his country's foes, Achieved for Britain triumphs, less array'd "In pomp and circumstance,"
nor visible To vulgar gaze--the triumphs of the Mind. He nursed the elements of courage--he
Supplied the aliment that feeds and guides The daring spirit to its high emprise-- A nation's
moral energies, by him Directed, found a nobler end and aim. He gave that high discriminating
tone That marks the Brave from mercenary tools-- Features that separate a British Crew From
hireling bravoes, and from pirate hordes. And yet no marble marks the spot where lies The dust
of DIBDIN;--no inscription speaks A Nation's gratitude--a Bard's desert.

The youthful Sailor on his midnight watch, Fixing his gaze upon the tranquil moon, Felt his
heart soften as the thoughts of home Rush'd on his faithful memory;--then it was In language
meet, and in appropriate strains-- Strains which thy lyre had taught him--he pour'd forth The
feelings of his soul, and all was calm.

Thy Spirit still presides in that carouse, When to "the Far away" the toast is given, And "absent
Wives and Sweethearts" claim their right, With Woman's constancy thy songs are rife; And this
pure creed still teaches Man t' endure Privations, danger, and each form of death.

When not a breath responded to the call, And Seamen whistled to the winds in vain; When the
loose canvass droop'd in lazy folds, And idle pennants dangled from the mast;-- There, in that
trying moment, thou wert found To teach the hardest lesson man can learn-- Passive endurance--and
the breeze has sprung, As if obedient to the voice of Song:-- And yet unhonour'd here thy ashes
lie!

A nobler lesson learn'd the gallant Tar From his Orphean lyre--to temper right The lion's courage
with the attributes That to the gentle and the meek belong; O'er fallen foes to check the eye
of fire-- O'er fallen foes to soften heart of oak.

He turn'd the Fatalist's rash eye to Him In whom the issues are of life and death; He taught
to whom the battle is--to whom The victory belongs. His cherub, that aloft Kept sleepless watch,
was Providence--not Chance.

And yet no honours are decreed for him-- Friend of the Brave, thy memory cannot die! Th'inquiring
voice, that eagerly demands Where rest thy ashes?--shall preserve thy fame. Thine immortality
thyself hast wrought;-- Familiar as the terms of art, thy verse, Thine own peculiar words are
still the mode In which the Seaman aptly would express His honest passions and his manly thoughts;
His feelings kindle at thy burning words, Which speak his duty in the battle's front; His parting
whisper to the maid he loves Is breathed in eloquence he learned from thee; Thou art his Oracle
in every mood-- His trump of victory--his lyre of love!

A SKETCH FROM LIFE.

She sat in beauty, like some form of nymph Or naïad, on the mossy, purpled bank Of her wild
woodland stream, that at her feet Linger'd, and play'd, and dimpled, as in love. Or like those
shapes that on the western clouds Spread gold-dropp'd plumes, and sing to harps of pearl, And
teach the evening winds their melody: How shall I tell her beauty?--for the eye, Fix'd on the
sun, is blinded by its beam. One glance, and then no more, upon that brow Brighter than marble
shining through those curls, Richer than hyacinths when they wave their bells In the low breathing
of the twilight wind.-- One glance upon that lip, beside whose hue The morning rose would sicken
and grow pale, 'Till it was waked again by the soft breath That steals in music from those
lips of love. Wert thou a statue I could pine for thee, But in thy living beauty there is awe;
The sacredness of modesty enshrines The ruby lip, bright brow, and beaming eye;-- I dare but
worship what I must not love.

ON THE PORTRAIT

OF THE SON OF J.G. LAMBTON, ESQ., M.P.

BY SIR THOMAS LAWRENCE, P.R.A.

Beautiful Boy--thy heavenward thoughts
  Are pictured in thine eyes,
Thou hast no taint of mortal birth,
Thy communing is not of earth,
  Thy holy musings rise:
Like incense kindled from on high,
Ascending to its native sky.

And such a head might once have graced
  The infant Samuel, when
Call'd by the favour of his God,
The youthful priest the Temple trod
  Beloved of Heaven and men!
The same devotion on his brow
As brightens in thy forehead now.

Or, thou may'st seem to Fancy's eye
  One borne by arms Divine;
One, whom on Earth a Saviour bless'd,
And on whose features left impress'd
  The Contact's holy sign:
A light, a halo, and a grace,
So pure th' expression of that face.

Or, has the Painter's skill alone
  Such grace and glory given?
Clothed thee with attributes which seem
Creations of an angel's dream,
  To raise the soul to Heaven?
No, as he found thee, he arrayed,
And Genius taught what God had made!

WRITTEN IN THE ALBUM

OF THE LADY OF COUNSELLOR D. POLLOCK.

Joy to thee, Lady! many years of joy
  To thee--and thine--that springtide of the heart,
The bliss of virtuous love, without alloy.
  And all that health and gladsome life impart.
How gracefully hast thou thy task perform'd,
  The watchful tender mother, matchless wife;
All woman boasts--thou hast indeed adorn'd--
  Thine the high merit of an useful life.
For ever cheerful, though the Tragic Muse[1]
  May call thee Sister, both in form and mind;
Thou do'st to all those envied charms transfuse,
  Which shine so highly temper'd and refined.
Lady revered--the sunbeam and the rose
  Are poor in beauty to sweet woman's smiles:
'Tis the bright sunset of life's awful close,
  The Poet's deathless wreath! a spell all grief beguiles!

[Footnote 1: The Lady, to whom these lines are addressed has been greatly noticed for the strong
resemblance she bears to Mrs. Siddons.]

THE HELIOTROPE.

There is a flower, whose modest eye
  Is turn'd with looks of light and love,
Who breathes her softest, sweetest sigh.
  Whene'er the sun is bright above.

Let clouds obscure, or darkness veil,
  Her fond idolatry is fled,
Her sighs no more their sweets exhale.
  The loving eye is cold--and dead.

Canst thou not trace a moral here,
  False flatterer of the prosperous hour?
Let but an adverse cloud appear,
  And Thou art faithless, as the Flower!

PROMETHEUS.

ROSA'S GRAVE.

It is a mournful pleasure to remember the exquisite taste and delight she evinced in the arrangement
of a Bouquet; and how often she wished that, hereafter, she might appear to me as a beautiful
flower!

A SKETCH.

So stood the Sibyl: stream'd her hoary hair Wild as the blast, and with a comet's glare Glow'd
her red eye-balls 'midst the sunken gloom Of their wild orbs, like death-fires in a tomb. Slow,
like the rising storm, in fitful moans, Broke from her breast the deep prophetic tones. Anon,
with whirlwind rash, the Spirit came; Then in dire splendour, like imprison'd flame Flashing
through rifted domes or towns amazed, Her voice in thunder burst; her arm she raised; Outstretch'd
her hands, as with a Fury's force, To grasp, and launch the slow descending curse: Still as
she spoke, her stature seem'd to grow; Still she denounced unmitigable woe: Pain, want, and
madness, pestilence, and death, Rode forth triumphant at her blasting breath: Their march she
marshall'd, taught their ire to fall-- And seem'd herself the emblem of them all!

ON A DELIGHTFUL DRAWING IN MY ALBUM,

By my friend, T. WOODWARD, ESQ., of a Group, consisting of a Donkey, a Boy, and a Dog.

Welcome, my pretty Neddy--welcome too Thy merry Rider with his apron blue; And thou, poor Dog,
most patient thing of all, Begging for morsels that may never fall! Oh! 'tis a faithful group--and
it might shame Painters of bold pretence, and greater name-- To see how nature triumphs, and
how rare Such matchless proofs of Nature's triumphs are-- The smallest particle of sand may
tell With what rich ore Pactolus' tide may swell: And Woodward! this ingenious, chaste design,
Proclaims what treasures lie within the mine-- Pupil of Cooper--Nature's favorite son-- Whom,
but to name, and to admire, is one!

SHAKSPEARE.

Respectfully inscribed, with permission, to the Committee (of which His Majesty is the Patron)
for the proposed Monuments to SHAKSPEARE at Stratford and in London. Intended to be spoken
at one of the Theatres.

While o'er this pageant of sublunar things Oblivion spreads her unrelenting wings, And sweeps
adown her dark unebbing tide Man, and his mightiest monuments of pride-- Alone, aloft, immutable,
sublime, Star-like, ensphered above the track of time, Great SHAKSPEARE beams with undiminish'd
ray. His bright creations sacred from decay, Like Nature's self, whose living form he drew,
Though still the same, still beautiful and new.

He came, untaught in academic bowers, A gift to Glory from the Sylvan powers: But what keen
Sage, with all the science fraught, By elder bards or later critics taught, Shall count the
cords of his mellifluous shell, Span the vast fabric of his fame, and tell By what strange
arts he bade the structure rise-- On what deep site the strong foundation lies? This, why should
scholiasts labour to reveal? We all can answer it, we all can feel, Ten thousand sympathies,
attesting, start-- For SHAKSPEARE'S Temple, is the human heart!

Lord of a throne which mortal ne'er shall share-- Despot adored! he rales and revels there.
Who but has found, where'er his track hath been, Through life's oft shifting, multifarious
scene, Still at his side the genial Bard attend, His loved companion, counsellor, and friend!

The Thespian Sisters nurtured in the schools Of Greece and Rome, and long coerced by rules,
Scarce moved the inmates of their native hearth With tiny pathos and with trivial mirth, Till
She, great muse of daring enterprise, Delighted ENGLAND! saw her SHAKSPEARE rise!

Then, first aroused in that appointed hour, The Tragic Muse confess'd th' inspiring power;
Sudden before the startled earth she stood, A giant spectre, weeping tears and blood; Guilt
shrunk appall'd, Despair embraced his shroud, And Terror shriek'd, and Pity sobb'd aloud;--
Then, first Thalia with dilated ken And quicken'd footstep pierced the walks of men; Then Folly
blush'd, Vice fled the general hiss, Delight met Reason with a loving kiss; At Satire's glance
Pride smooth'd his low'ring crest, The Graces weaved the dance.--And last and best Came Momus
down in Falstaff's form to earth. To make the world one universe of mirth!

Such Sympathies the glorious Bard endear! Thus fair he walks in Man's diurnal sphere. But when,
upborne on bright Invention's wings. He dares the realms of uncreated things, Forms more divine,
more dreadful, start to view, Than ever Hades or Olympus knew. Round the dark cauldron, terrible
and fell, The midnight Witches breathe the songs of hell; Delighted Ariel wings his fiery way
To whirl the storm, the wheeling Orbs to stay; Then bathes in honey-dews, and sleeps in flowers;
Meanwhile, young Oberon, girt with shadowy powers, Pursues o'er Ocean's verge the pale cold
Moon, Or hymns her, riding in her highest noon.

Thus graced, thus glorified, shall SHAKSPEARE crave The Sculptor's skill, the pageant of the
grave? HE needs it not--but Gratitude demands This votive offering at his Country's hands.
Haply, e'er now, from blissful bowers on high, From some Parnassus of the empyreal sky, Pleased,
o'er this dome the gentle Spirit bends, Accepts the gift, and hails us as his friends-- Yet
smiles, perchance, to think when envious Time O'er Bust and Urn shall bid his ivies climb,
When Palaces and Pyramids shall fall-- HIS PAGE SHALL TRIUMPH--still surviving all-- 'Till
Earth itself, "like breath upon the wind," Shall melt away, "nor leave a rack behind!"

IMPROMPTU, TO ORIANA.

ON ATTENDING WITH HER, AS SPONSORS, AT A CHRISTENING

Lady! who didst--with angel-look and smile, And the sweet lustre of those dear, dark eyes,
Gracefully bend before the font of Christ, In humble adoration, faith, and prayer! Oh!--as
the infant pledge of friends beloved Received from thy pure lips its future name, Sweetly unconscious
look'd the baby-boy! How beautifully helpless--and how mild! --Methought, a seraph spread her
shelt'ring wings Over the solemn scene; and as the sun, In its full splendour, on the altar
came, God's blessing seem'd to sanctify the deed.

TO MY SPANIEL FANNY.

Fanny! were all the world like thee,
  How cheerly then this life would glide,
Dear emblem of Fidelity!
  Long may'st thou grace thy master's side.

Long cheer his hours of solitude,
  With watchful eye each wish to learn,
And anxious speechless gratitude
  Hail with delight each short sojourn.

When sick at heart, thy welcome home
  A weary load of grief dispels,
Gladdens with hope the hours to come,
  And yet a mournful lesson tells!

To find thee ever faithful, kind,
  My guard by night, my friend by day,
While those in friendship more refined
  Have with my fortunes flown away.

Why bounteous nature hast thou given
  To this poor Brute--a boon so kind
As constancy--bless'd gift of Heaven!
  And MAN--to waver like the wind?

WIDOWED LOVE.[1]

Tell me, chaste spirit! in yon orb of light,
  Which seems to wearied souls an ark of rest,
So calm, so peaceful, so divinely bright--
  Solace of broken hearts, the mansion of the bless'd!

Tell me, oh! tell me--shall I meet again
  The long lost object of my only love!
--This hope but mine, death were release from pain;
  Angel of mercy! haste, and waft my soul above!

[Footnote 1: Mr. T. Millar has composed sweet music to these lines, and has been peculiarly
fortunate in composing and singing some of the exquisite Melodies of T.H. Bayly, Esq. of Bath.]

WRITTEN IN THE ALBUM

OF THE LADY OF DR. GEORGE BIRKBECK, M.D.

President of the London Mechanic's Institution, and of the Chemical and Meteorological Societies.
Founder and Patron of the Glasgow Mechanic's Institute, &c. &c. &c.

Lady unknown! a pilgrim from the shrine Of Poesy's fair temple, brings a wreath Which fame
and gratitude alike entwine, Around a name that charms the monster Death, And bids him pause!--Amidst
despairing life BIRKBECK's the harbinger of hope and health; When sordid affluence was with
man at strife, He boldly stripp'd the veil, and show'd the wealth To aged ignorance, and ardent
youth, Of cultured minds--the freedom of the soul! The sun of science, and the light of truth,
The bliss of reason--mind without control.

Accept this tribute. Lady! and the praise, As Consort and the soother of his care! His offspring's
pride--his friend's commingled rays, And every other grace that man has deem'd most rare!

THE CHAIN-PIER, BRIGHTON;

A SKETCH.

Hail, lovely morn! and thou, all-beauteous sea! Sun-sparkling with the diamond's countless
rays: Thy look, how tranquil, one eternal calm, Which seems to woo the troubled soul to peace!
Now, all is sunshine, and thy boundless breast Scarce heaves; unruffled, all thy waves subside
(Light murmuring, like the baby sighs of rest) Into a gentle ripple on the shore.

All hail, dear Woman! saving-ark of man, His surest solace in this world of woe; How cheering
are thy smiles, which, like the breeze Of health, play softly o'er the pallid cheek, And turn
its rigid markings to a smile. England may well be proud of scenes like this; The beaming Beauty
which adorns the PIER!

Hung like a fairy fabric o'er the sea, The graceful wonder of this wondrous age; Intrepid Brown,[1]
the future page shall tell Thy generous spirit's persevering aim, That wrought so much, so
well, thy country's weal; How fit for thee, the gallant seaman's life, His restless nights,
and days of ceaseless toil; Framed by thy mighty hand, the giant work Check'd the rude tempest,
in its fearful way. Thy bold inventions gave new life to hope, Steadied the wavering, and confirm'd
the brave, And bade the timid smile, amidst the storm!

Spirit of Hogarth! had I but one ray Of that vast sun which warm'd thy varied mind; How would
I now describe the motley groups Which crowd, in thoughtless ease, thy moving road. Mark the
young Confidence of yesterday, Offspring of pride, and fortune's blinded fool, (Engender'd
like the vermin of an hour) All would-be fashion, elegance, and ease, While, by his side, the
weaker vessel smirks, In tawdry finery, with presuming gait, As though the world were made
for them alone; Their liveried Lacquey, half-conceal'd in lace, The vulgar wonder of an upstart
race. How heartlessly they pass that mourner by, The poor lone Widow, with her death-struck
load. In speechless poverty, she courts the air, To give its blessing to her suff'ring babe;
Not asking it herself; for life, to her, Has now no charm--her refuge is the grave!

Here comes the moral Almanack of years-- The prim old maid, and, by her side, her Niece, Full
of bewitching beauty, health, and love. See, how the tabby watches Laura's eyes, Lest they
should smile upon some pleasing spark, And violate grim prudery's tyrant ties. With icy finger,
she her charge directs, To view the faithful dial of the sun, Whose moral tells how tide and
time pass on. See, there--the fated victim of mischance; Read, in that hollow eye, and alter'd
look, The deep anxiety which gnaws the heart, Incessant struggling 'gainst a tide of care,
Which wears his life away;--and there, again, The empty, lucky Fool, who never thought, Nor
ever will, yet lives and smiles, and thrives! Mark ye, that Ready-reckoner's figured face?
Cold calculation in his thoughtful step; The heartless wretch, who never trusts his land, And
never is deceived!--And, next him, comes Laughing Good-nature, with ruddy cheeks, And welcome
look, determined to be pleased. He comes to ask--or go with friend to dine; His labour but
to dress--to eat, to sleep: He knows no suffering equal to bad wine. There--the prig-Parson,
with indented hat, And formal step--demanding your respect-- Yonder, the lovely insect-chasing
Child. His is, indeed, a life of envious joy; Hope and anticipation, on the wing, To him no
sad realities e'er bring!

And now, the humble Quaker, plain and proud. Humility, is this, indeed, thy type? (I know it
is not, for I know the man.) His lovely Daughter bears an angel form And mind, that glorifies
her sex's charms; Meekness and charity her life employ-- A seraph sorrowing for a suffering
world! Lo! too, the Matron, with her household gods, The deities she worships night and day.
Affection has no bounds, nor language words. To tell a mother's tender ceaseless charge. Children!
can all your future lore repay The nights of watchfulness, and days of care, Which a fond parent
gives?-- See, last, sad sight! the hardy British Tar, Cutlass unsheath'd, unlike the truly
brave. Here, watching, night and day--degenerate lot! To seize a fisherman, or stop a cart,
Or "fright the wandering spirits from the shore." His "brief authority" has just detain'd A
boat of cockles and a quart of gin! The smart Lieutenant's epaulette, methinks, Blushes at
this degrading, pimping trade.-- For deeds like these--let objects be employ'd, Who never shared
their country's high renown! Adieu! vast Ocean, cradle of the brave, Tablet of England's glory,
and her shield! To thee--and those dear friends who lured me here, With hospitality's enchanting
smile, And chased away a little age of woe-- Gratefully--I dedicate these tuneful lays!

July, 1826.

ON THE DEATH OF DR. ABEL,[1]

Physician and Naturalist to Lord Amherst, Governor General of India, who died at Cawnpoor,
24th of November, 1826.

Another awful warning voice of death To human dignity, and human pride; 'Tis sad, to mark how
short the longest life-- How brief was thine! Thy day is done, And all its complicated hopes
and fears Lie buried, ABEL! in an early grave. The unavailing tear for thee shall flow, And
love and friendship faithful record keep Of all thy varied worth, thy anxious strife For fame
and years, now gone for ever! Yet o'er thy tomb science and learning Bend in mute regret, and
truth proclaims Thy just inheritance an honour'd name!

Lamented most by those who knew thee best, Accept this humble, tributary lay, From one, who
in thy boyhood and thy prime Had shared thy friendship, and had fondly hoped When last we parted,
many years were thine And joys in store--that thy elastic mind Might long have gladden'd life's
monotony. Thine was a princely heart, a joyous soul, The charm of reason, and the sprightly
wit Which kept dull letter'd ignorance in awe, Shook the pretender on his tinsel throne, And
claim'd the glorious dignity of mind!

Alas! that in thy prime, when time began To make thee nearly all the World could wish, The
spoiler Death should unrelenting come (As though in envy of thy wondrous skill) And stop the
fountain of a noble heart.

Rest, anxious spirit! from life's feverish dream, From all its sad realities and cares: Be
this thy Epitaph, thy honour'd boast-- Thine was the fame, which thine own mind achieved!

[Footnote 1: Dr. Abel was greatly distinguished in his profession for his love of it, and for
the ardour of his pursuits in useful knowledge. --He published many ingenious Papers on Medical
Science and Natural History. His account of the Embassy to China, under Lord Amherst, has been
generally admired. He practised with increasing respect as a Physician, at Brighton, previous
to his leaving England for India; and meditated (as the Author of this article knows) one or
two works, which, from the activity of his mind, may yet be anticipated. Dr. Abel was a native
of Bungay, in Suffolk (where his father was a banker), and it is supposed was about 35 years
of age when he died.

CONSTANCY.

TO----.

Dearest love! when thy God shall recall thee,
  Be this record inscribed on thy tomb:
Truth, and gratitude, well may applaud thee,
  And all thy past virtues relume.

It shall tell--to thy sex's proud honour,
  Of sufferings and trials severe,
While still, through protracted affliction,
  Not a murmur escaped; but the tear

Of resignment to Heaven's high dictates,
  'Twas thine, like a martyr, to shed:
That heart--all affection for others--
  For thyself, uncomplainingly, bled.

Midst the storms, which misfortune had gather'd,
  What an angel thou wert unto me;
In that hour, when all friendship seem'd sever'd,
  Thou didst bloom like the ever-green tree!

All was gloom; and in vain had I striven,
  For hope ceased a ray to impart;
When thou cam'st, like a meteor from heaven,
  And gave peace to my desolate heart!

EPISTLE TO A FRIEND.

Give me the wreath of friendship true,
  Whose flowerets fade not in a breath:
From memory gaining many a hue,
  To bloom beyond the touch of death.

And I will send it to thy home--
  Thy home beloved, my faithful friend!
And pray for its perpetual bloom
  And every bliss that earth can send.

Within its magic wreath I'd place
  Hearts'-ease and every lovely flower;
To win thee by their matchless grace,
  And cheer and bless the lonely hour.

When at the world's unkind return
  Of all thy worth, and all thy care,
Thou may'st in spite of manhood turn,
  And shed the sad, the bitter, tear.

Then, midst this holy grief of thine,
  The thought of some true friend may bless,
And cheer the gloom like angel's smile,
  Or sunbeam in a wilderness.

And could I hope I had a claim
  On thee in such a rapturous hour?
Oh! that, indeed, I'd own were fame.
  The saving ark of friendship's power.

Or that, in future years, thy babes
  Should o'er this frail memorial bend,
(For first affection rarely fades!)
  And boast that I was once the friend

Whose wit, or worth, possess'd a charm,
  By Parents loved, and them caress'd.
That spell would every sorrow calm,
  And bid my anxious spirit rest!

HERE IN OUR FAIRY BOWERS WE DWELL.

A GLEE.

Sung by Messrs. GOULDEN, PYNE, and NELSON.--Composed by Mr. ROOKE.

Here, in our fairy bowers, we dwell,
  Women our idol, life's best treasure!
Echo enchanted joys to tell,
  Our feast of laugh, of love, and pleasure.
        Say, is not this then bliss divine,
        Beauty's smiles and rosy wine?

Eternal mirth and sunshine reign,
  For grief we cannot find the leisure;
Night's social gods have banish'd pain,
  Morn lights us to increasing pleasure.
        Say, is not this then bliss divine,
        Beauty's smiles and rosy wine?

To----.

MONODY

TO THE MEMORY

OF THE RIGHT HONOURABLE

RICHARD BRINSLEY SHERIDAN.

PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION.

The very flattering success which attended the first Edition of this brief but affectionate
Sketch, I must attribute to the interest of the subject, rather than the merit of the composition;
and I cannot but feel grateful to those Writers who have honoured me by their notice and approbation.

I must not again go to press, without acknowledging how much I am indebted to a kind friend,
who happened to be in Norfolk at the time I was printing the first Edition; with whom I had
the happiness to pass many delightful hours, and to whose admirable taste and judgment I owe
many valuable suggestions. In mentioning John Kemble with Sheridan, I associate two of the
brightest stars that have illumined the Literature and Drama of the Country.

T.G.

Yarmouth, Norfolk, 1816.

SHERIDAN.

Embalm'd in fame, and sacred from decay,
  What mighty name, in arms, in arts, or verse,
From England claims this consecrated day.
  Her nobles crowding round the shadowy hearse?

Hark! from yon fane, within whose hallow'd mounds,
  Her bards, her warriors, and her statesmen, sleep;
The solemn, slow, funereal bell resounds,
  While mournful echoes dread accordance keep.

Spirits revered! beyond that awful bourne.
  Who share the dark communion of the tomb,
A kindred genius seeks your dread sojourn;
  Ye heirs of glory! hail a brother home.

Obscured, as SHERIDAN to dust descends,
  Recedes each ray from Wit's effulgent sphere;
Lo! every Muse in silent sorrow bends,
  Her votive laurels mingling o'er his bier.

But chiefly thou, from whose polluted shrine
  His filial hand Circean rabble drove;
What pangs, Thalia! in this hour are thine;
  What fervent anguish of maternal love!

How long perverted, had the Comic scene,
  (The flattering reflex of a sensual age)
Shown prurient Folly's rank licentious mien,
  Refined, embellish'd on the pander stage:

While Vanburgh, Congreve, Farquhar, heaven-endow'd,
  To scourge bold Vice with Wit's resistless rod,
Embraced her chains, stood forth her priests avow'd,
  And scatter'd flowers in every path she trod:

Inglorious praise! though Judgment's self admired
  Those wanton strains which Virtue blush'd to hear;
While pamper'd Passion from the scene retired,
  With wilder rage to urge his fierce career.

At length, all graced in Fancy's orient hues,
  His native fires with added culture bright,
Rose SHERIDAN! to vindicate the Muse,
  And gild the drama with meridian light.

Him, skill'd alike great Nature's genuine form,
  Or Fashion's light factitious traits to trace,
The scene confess'd;--with glowing pathos warm,
  Or gaily sportive in familiar grace.

With what nice art his master-hand he flung
  O'er each fine chord which thrills the polish'd breast,
Let Faukland tell! with woes ideal stung;
  Let gentle Julia's generous flame attest![1]

Satire, that oft with castigation rude
  Degrades, while zealous to correct mankind,
Refined by him, more generous aims pursued,
  Reform'd the vice--but left no sting behind.

Yet, though with Wit's imperishable bays
  Enwreath'd, he held an uncontested throne;
Though circling climes, unanimous in praise,
  Confirm'd the partial suffrage of his own:

In careless mood he sought the Muse's bower;
  His lyre, like that to great Pelides strong,
The soft'ning solace of a vacant boor,
  Its airy descant indolently rung.

But when, portentous 'mid the storms of war,
  Glared Public danger; when, with withering din,
The spoil-flush'd foe strode furious from afar;
  And direr dread! Rebellion raged within:

Then SHERIDAN! dilating to the storm,
  Bright as the pharos, as the watch-tower strong,
With all the patriot's inspiration warm,
  Thy genius pour'd its thundering voice along.

Who heard thee not, in that tremendous hour,
  When Britain mourn'd her surest anchor lost,
And saw her alienated Navies lour,
  Like the charged tempest, round their parent coast?

With active zeal, which no cold medium knew,
  Nor party ruled, nor prejudice confined,
But, to thy heart's spontaneous impulse true,
  Thou gay'st thy country ALL thy mighty mind.

What time Iberia, gash'd with many a scar,
  Braved the fierce Gaul, in fervour uncontroll'd,
Though doubts and fears bedimm'd her struggling star,
  Its bright ascent thy prescient soul foretold.

Late, too, when France, with sophist cunning fraught,
  Essay'd that field which force had fail'd to gain,
And proudly question'd, by success untaught,
  Britannia's lineal right--her watery reign!

While meaner foes denounced with equal hate
  Her flag, which wide in Freedom's cause unfurl'd,
The saving sign of many a sinking state,
  Had chased Oppression from th' insulted world.--

Oh! that beyond the light diurnal page,
  Inscribed on high in monumental gold,
That strain might kindle each succeeding age,
  Which thus thy generous indignation roll'd:

"If e'er, of ancient energy bereaved,
  Britannia, bent by menace or design,
Should stain her naval sceptre, hard-achieved,
  And yield one claim, one cherish'd right resign:

"Then, hurl'd in ruin from her radiant sphere,
  Sunk her proud Isle in Ocean's depths profound;
May all her glories pass from Memory's ear,
  An idle legend--a derided sound!"

Such were his merits whom the Muse deplores,
  The Wit, the Statesman, Orator, and Bard!
Nor when his frailties jealous truth explores,
  Shall Candour shrink from her supreme award?

If, all propitious, when his ardent prime
  Beat high with hope, in conscious powers elate,
Ambition woo'd him from her height sublime,
  And partial Fortune op'd her golden gate;

What hostile influence, glooming o'er his way,
  Chill'd each fine impulse, each aspiring aim,
Effused bleak clouds round Life's declining ray,
  And left his labours no reward but fame?

'Twas not alone that in the festive bower,
  Prompt in the social sympathies to melt,
Too long he linger'd; that the genial hour
  His fervid sense too exquisitely felt.

But that in tasks of public duty proved,
  Onward with faith inflexible he trod;
Alike by Fortune's dazzling lure unmoved,
  Or stern Necessity's relentless rod.

E'en Envy's self shall sanction that applause:
  And oft, slow pacing yon sepulchral gloom,
With fond regret shall Meditation pause,
  And breathe these accents o'er his honour'd tomb:

Ye Muses! come, with ministry divine.
  Protect the shrine where SHERIDAN is laid;
Ye Patriot Virtues! here your homage join;
  Assert his worth, and soothe his hovering shade.

Emblazon'd high in Albion's rolls of fame,
  A guiding star by which her sons may steer;
This proud inscription let his memory claim--
  Above himself, he held his Country dear!

[Footnote 1: Rivals.]

ON THE BEAUTIFUL PORTRAIT OF MRS. FOREMAN, AS PANDORA.

In the Somerset-house Exhibition, 1826.--Painted by J.P. Davis.

Oh! had'st thou, Jove! with adamantine locks Fix'd fast the springs of poor Pandora's box,
Then had she, bright enchantment! bloom'd for ever In all the charms consenting Gods could
give her-- Wit, Wisdom, Beauty, she had every grace Which makes man play the madman for a face!
But chief, bless'd gift! for him ordain'd to ask it, The gem of gems, th' incomparable casket;
And, lo! with trembling hands and ardent eyes The bridegroom claims it--and--behold the prize!
First, like a vapour o'er the heavens obscured, From that dark confine, rose the fiends immured,
Then groan'd the earth, in fury swell'd the floods, Blasts smote the harvests, lightning fired
the woods; Blue spotted Plague rode gibbering on the blast, And nations shriek'd, and perish'd,
as he pass'd. Amazed, indignant, Epimetheus stood, Vow'd dire revenge, and strung his nerves
for blood. It was not then, that from the coffer's lid Hope's roseate smile his fierce delirium
chid; He saw, in that fair wife which heaven had sent But mighty Mischiefs mortal instrument,
And swore not Hope, nor Mercy's self should save her, Look'd in her face, smiled, sigh'd, and
then--forgave her!

Why talks he to the idle air?

TO MARGARET JANE H----,

ON HER BIRTH-DAY, 17 JUNE.

Thou art indeed a lovely flower, And I, just like the fleeting hour, Which few will heed on
folly's brink, So rarely deigns the world to think. Yet, ere I go, child of my heart-- One
faithful offering I'll impart To thee--thy parents' sole delight: To me--an angel, pure as
light. Sent on this earth to cheer and bless, Like sunbeam in a wilderness, With fascination's
form and face, And all the charms that please and grace. A guileless heart, a lovely mind,
A temper ardent, yet refined, And in the early dawn of youth, Taught to love honour, faith,
and truth.

Ah! these--when all the transient joys Of idle life, when all its toys Shall fade like mist
before the sun, Yet, ere thy little day is done, Shall give that calm, that true delight, Which
gilds the darkling hues of night, The sunset of a well spent day, A glorious immortality!

ON READING THE POEM OF "PARIS."

BY THE REV GEORGE CROLY, A.M.

Author of "The Angel of the World," "Sebastian," &c.

By the trim taper, and the blazing hearth,
  (While loud without the blast of winter sung),
Now thrill'd with awe, and now relax'd with mirth,
  Paris, I've roam'd thy varied haunts among,
Loitering where Fashion's insect myriads spread
  Their painted wings, and sport their little day;
Anon, by beckoning recollection led
  To the dark shadow of the stern ABBAYE,
Pale Fancy heard the petrifying shriek
Of midnight Murder from its turrets bleak,
And to her horrent eye came passing on
Phantoms of those dark times, elapsed and gone,
  When Rapine yell'd o'er his defenceless prey,
As unchain'd Anarchy her tocsin rung,
  And France! in dust and blood thy throne and altars lay!

Oh! thou, thus skill'd with absolute controul, Where'er thou wilt to lead th' admiring soul,
Gifted alike with Fancy's train to sport, And tread light measures in her elfin court; Or pierce
the height where Grandeur sits alone, Girt by the tempest, on his mountain throne: Whate'er
the theme which wakes thy vocal shell, Well-pleased I follow where its concords swell; In regal
halls, where pleasure wings the night With pomp and music, revelry and light, Or where, unwept
by Love's deploring eyes, In the lone Morgue, the self-doom'd victim lies-- Then, midst the
twilight of yon Chapel dim, To mark Religion's reverend Martyr, him Who kneels entranced in
agony of prayer, His fellow victims torpid with despair, Thrill'd by his piercing tones, his
beaming eye Glows, as he glows, nor longer dread to die!

Now, borne to Belgium's plain on bolder wings, Where England's warriors fix'd the fate of Kings:
At once the Patriot and the Poet glows, And full the mingling inspiration flows:-- Resume the
lyre: not thine in myrtle bowers To trifle light with Life's uncounted hours-- To crown thy
toils, propitious Fame from far Entwines her noblest wreath, illumes her loftiest star!

WRITTEN IN THE ALBUM OF I---- H---- P----, ESQ.

Dear P----, while Painters, Poets, Sages, Inscribe this volume's votive pages With partial
friendship: why invite The tribute of a luckless wight Unknown--by wisdom or by wit Indulged
with no certificate?

Perchance, as in a diadem Glittering with many a radiant gem, Some mean metallic foil is placed
Judicious, by the hand of taste; You seek, amidst the sons of fame, To set an undistinguish'd
name? If so--that name is freely lent, A pebble to your gems--T. GENT.

RETALIATION.

Love, Cupid, Gallantry, whate'er We call that elf, seen every where, Half frolicsome, half
ennuyeuse, Had chanced a country walk to choose; When sudden, sweet and bright as May, Young
Beauty tripp'd across his way.--

"Upon my word," exclaims the boy, "A lucky hit! this pretty toy To pass an hour, with vapours
haunted, Is quite the thing I wish'd and wanted; I do not so far condescend As serious mischief
to intend, But just to show my powers of pleasing In flattery, badinage, and teasing; But should
she, for young girls, poor things! Are tender as yon insect's wings-- Should she mistake me,
and grow fond, Why, I'll grow serious--and abscond."

First, not abruptly to confound her, With glance and smile he hovers round her: Next, like
a Bond-street or Pall-mall beau, Begins to press her gentle elbow; Then plays at once, familiar
walking, His whole artillery of talking:-- Like a young fawn the blushing maid Trips on, half
pleased and half afraid-- And while she palpitates and listens, Still fluttering where the
sunbeam glistens, He shows her all his pretty things, His bow and quiver, dart, and wings;
Now, proud in power, he sees her eyes Dilate with beautiful surprise; But most, though fraught
with perturbation. His weapons claim her admiration, And with an archness most bewitching (Her
naive simplicity enriching), She wonders where a maid might buy than, And begs to be allow'd
to try them.

With secret scorn, but smiling bland, He yields them to her curious hand, When, instant, twang!
the arrow flew, So just her aim, it pierced him through, Right through his heart, the luckless
lad! (A heart, to do him right, he had); All prone he lies, in throbbing anguish, Through many
an hour to pine and languish, And what made all his pangs more bitter, Off flew the damsel
in a titter. Prudence, conceal'd behind a tree, Cries out, "you've always laughed at me-- Henceforth
you'll recollect, young sir! 'Tis not so safe to laugh at her."

LINES

WRITTEN IN A COPY OF THE POEM ON PRINCESS CHARLOTTE.

Presented to Mrs. D---- T----.

Madam! when sorrowing o'er the virtuous dead, The gentlest solace of the tears we shed, Is,
to surviving excellence to turn, And honour there those merits that we mourn.

The Muse, whose hand fair Brunswick's ashes strew With votive flowers, would weave a wreath
for You; But living worth forbids th' applausive lay. Therefore, repressing all respect, would
say, She proffers silently her simple strain; If you approve--she has not toil'd in vain!

TO ROBERT SOUTHEY, ESQ.

ON READING HIS

"REMAINS OF HENRY KIRKE WHITE."

Southey! high placed on the contested throne Of modern verse, a Muse, herself unknown, Sues
that her tears may consecrate the strains Pour'd o'er the urn enrich'd with WHITE'S Remains!
While touch'd to transport, Taste's responding tone Makes the rapt poet's ecstasies thine own;
Ah! think that he, whose hand supremely skill'd, The heart's fine chords with deep vibration
thrill'd, In stagnant silence and petrific gloom, Unconscious sleeps, the tenant of the tomb!
Extinct that spirit, whose strong-bidding drew From Fancy's confines Wonder's wild-eyed crew,
Which bade Despair's terrific phantoms pass Like Macbeth's monarchs in the mystic glass. Before
the youthful bard's impassion'd eye, Like him, led on, to triumph and to die; Like him, by
mighty magic compass'd round, And seeking sceptres on enchanted ground. Such spells invest,
such blear illusion waits The trav'ller bound for Fame's receding gates, Delusive splendours
gild the proud abode, But lurking demons haunt th' alluring road; There gaunt-eyed Want asserts
her iron reign, There, as in vengeance of the world's disdain, This half-flesh'd hag midst
Wit's bright blossoms stalks, And, breathing winter, withers where she walks; Though there,
long outlaw'd, desp'rate with disgrace, Invidious Dulness wields the critic mace, And sworn
in hate, exerts his ruffian might Where'er young genius meditates his flight. Erewhile, when
WHITE, by this fell fiend oppress'd, Felt Hope's fine fervours languish in his breast, When
shrunk with scorn, and trembling to aspire, He dropp'd desponding his insulted lyre. Alert
in zeal, with art benigh endued, SOUTHEY! thy hand his blasted strength renew'd, And lured
him on, his labours scarce begun, To win those laurels which thyself had won. In vain! though
vivified with pristine force, O'er learning's realms he shot with meteor course; To worth relentless,
Fate's despotic frown Scowl'd in the bright perspective of renown: Timeless he falls, in Death's
pale triumph led. And his first laurels shade his grassy bed. So sinks the Muse's offspring,
doom'd to try, Like a caged eagle panting tow'rds the sky, A foil'd ascent, while adverse fortune
flings Her strong link'd meshes o'er his flutt'ring wings, Sinks, while exalted Ignorance supine,
Unheeded slumbers like the pamper'd swine; Obsequious slaves in his voluptuous bowers Young
pleasures warble, while the dancing Hours In sickly sweetness languishingly move, Like new-waked
virgins flush'd with dreams of love-- Him, when by Death's dark angel swept away From sloth's
embrace, in premature decay, Surviving friends, donation'd into grief, Shall mourn with anguish
audible and brief, And pander-bards ring round in goodly chime His liberal heart, high wit,
and soul sublime; But Flattery's frauds impartial Time disowns, Funereal pomp, and adulative
tones; Slow where she moves through monumental aisles, With stern contempt insulted Reason
smiles, While Falsehood, shrined above th' emblazon'd palls, Shames sanctity from consecrated
walls: She seeks, with pensive step and saintly eyes, Some lonely grave, where rude the grass-tufts
rise; Nor sculptured angels tell, nor chisell'd lines, There slumbers CHATTERTON--here WHITE
reclines! But nobler triumphs WHITE'S probation claims Than ever blazon'd Wit's recorded names;
For Virtue's sons, to bliss immortal born, Tower to their native heaven, and view with scorn
The vain distinction of the trophied sod, 'Tis theirs to gain distinction with their God!

THE STATE SECRET.

AN IMPROMPTU.

"Murder will out:"--and so will truth sometimes; For once I'll prove it in a dozen lines.--

At one of those parties where Julia's sweet face Added interest to beauty, and archness to
grace, Where many fine folks met; and one very great, Proud and stupid, an embryo minister
sate; Like a damper he came to put good humour out, And it chanced that, as Julia's pet-bird
flew about. It presumptuously 'lit on this mighty man's head; When her lore-laughing sister,
sweet Eleanor, said, "Naughty bird! I must cage you for being so rude, On Lord------head, oh!
how dare you intrude?" "Let it rest," replied Julia, with an exquisite grace, "Don't frighten
it off--for it likes a soft place!"

THE MORNING CALL.

TO THE HONOURABLE LADY--------.

Written and left on her Table during her absence--Bathing.

I dare not look at those dear eyes,
  The sun was never half so bright,
There surely more of rapture lies
  Than ever bless'd a mortal's sight.

In thy sweet face I see impress'd
  Ten thousand thousand charms divine,
The sunbeams of thy guileless breast
  Like Heaven's eternal mercies shine!

Angel of love! life's endless joy,
  Our hope at morn, our evening prayer;
The bliss above would have alloy,
  Unless dear--------- thou wert there!

Oh! Woman--what a charm hast thou
  Our rebel nature thus to tame:
We ever must adore and bow.
  While virtue guards thy holy fane!

Werthing.

ON THE RUPTURE OF THE THAMES' TUNNEL,

WRITTEN 2nd JULY, 1827.

Every poor Quidnunc now condemns The Tunnel underneath Old Thames, And swears, his science
all forgetting, Friend Brunel's judgment wanted whetting; 'Tis thus great characters are dish'd,
When they get wetter than was wish'd,-- Brunel to Gravesend meant to go Under the water, wags
say so, And under that same water put His hopes to find a shorter cut; But when we leave the
light of day. Water hath many a devious way, Which, like a naughty woman, leads The best of
men to strange misdeeds: Had nearly, 'twas a toss-up whether, Gone to his grave and end together.
How the performance went amiss The classical account is this--

The Naiads, Thames' stream that swim in, Being curious, just like mortal women, Dear souls!
'tis said, midst all their cares, They love to peep at man's affairs, And wondering at the
workmen's hammers, The noise of axes, engines, rammers, Thought 'twould be well, nor meant
the fun ill, To make an opening through the Tunnel, Just to see how the work went on, And then,
down dash'd they, every one; When these same belles began to dire, 'Twas well the workmen 'scaped
alive: Brunel, indeed, who knew full well The nature of a diving bell, Remain'd some time,
nor made wry faces, Within their aqueous embraces; Nay, fierce and ungallant, adventured To
oust them by the breach they entered. Vain man! 'twas well that he could swim, Or, certes,
they had ousted him. Speed on great projects! though we rate 'em Rash, for alluvial pomatum,
And under that a sandy stratum, Will offer at a little distance An insurmountable resistance.

How strange! to find the labour done Just as the sand begins to run; In general human projects
drop, Just when our sand begins to stop!

ANACREONTIC.

"THE WISEST MEN ARE FOOLS IN WINE."

The wisest men are fools in wine,
  Experience makes us think:
Its magic spells are so divine,
  We reason--yet we drink!

How short's the longest life of man,
  How soon its brightest laurels fade--
Then, as our life is but a span,
  Let all its hours be joyous made.

Wine o'er the ardent restless mind
  Entwines its poppy chain;
A solace, then, the wretched find.
  In fictions of the brain.

Oh! as the charmed glass we sip, We conquer care and pain: It woos like woman's dewy lip, To
kiss--and come again!

This Song has been admirably set to Music, and Sung with great success, by MR. HENRY PHILLIPS.--It
is published by MORI and LAVENU, 28, New Bond-street.

TO MARY.

WRITTEN AT MIDNIGHT.

Oh! is there not in infant smiles
  A witching power, a cheering ray,
A charm, that every care beguiles,
  And bids the weary soul be gay?
There surely is--for thou hast been,
  Child of my heart, my peaceful dove,
Gladdening life's sad and chequer'd scene,
  An emblem of the peace above.
Now all is calm, and dark, and still,
  And bright the beam the moonlight throws
On ocean wave, and gentle rill,
  And on thy slumbering cheek of rose.
And may no care disturb that breast,
  Nor sorrow dim that brow serene;
And may thy latest years be bless'd
  As thy sweet infancy has been.

BLACK EYES AND BLUE.

FROM THE ITALIAN.

Blue eyes and jet
  Fell out one morn,
Azure cried in a pet,
  "Away, dark scorn!--
"We are brilliant and blue
  "As the waves of the sea--
"And as cold and untrue
  "And as changeable ye.

"We are born of the sky,
  "Of a summer night,
"When the first stars lie
  "In a bed of blue light;
"From the cloudy zone
  "Round the setting sun,
"Like an angel's throne,
 "Are our glories won."

"Pretty ladies, hold,"
  Cupid said to the eyes--
For beauties that scold
  "Are seldom wise;
"'Tis not colour I seek
  "Love's fires to impart--
"Give me eyes that can speak
  "From the depths of the heart."

EPIGRAM.

AURI SACRA FAMES.

I knew a being once, his peaked head With a few lank and greasy hairs was spread; His visage
blue, in length was like your own Seen in the convex of a table-spoon. His mouth, or rather
gash athwart his face, To stop at either ear had just the grace, A hideous rift: his teeth
were all canine, And just like Death's (in Milton) was his grin. One shilling, and one fourteen-penny
leg, (This shorter was than that, and not so big), He had; and they, when meeting at his knees,
An angle formed of ninety-eight degrees. Nature, in scheming how his back to vary, A hint had
taken from the dromedary: His eyes an inward, screwing vision threw, Striving each other through
his nose to view.

His intellect was just one ray above The idiot Cymon's ere he fell in love. At school they
Taraxippus[1] called the wight; The Misses, when they met him, shriek'd with fright. But, spite
of all that Nature had denied, When sudden Fortune made the cub her pride, And gave him twenty
thousand pounds a-year, Then, from the pretty Misses you might hear, "His face was not the
finest, and, indeed, He was a little, they must own, in-kneed; His shoulders, certainly, were
rather high, But, then, he had a most expressive eye; Nor were their hearts by outward charms
inclined: Give them the higher beauties of the mind!"

ON A SPIRITED PORTRAIT IN MY ALBUM,

Of a favorite Deer-hound, belonging to SIR WALTER SCOTT, by my friend, EDWIN LANDSEER, Esq.

Who in this sketchey wonder does not trace The fire, the spirit, and the living grace, That
mark the hand of genius and of taste? Who does not recognize in such a head Truth, vigilance,
fidelity, inbred, Sagacity that's human, and a waste Of those high qualities, and virtues rare,
Which poor humanity has not to spare?

Then, faithful Hound! thy happy lot is cast In pleasant places--and thy life has pass'd In
the dear service of a Master--whom The world's concurrent voice has yielded now The meed of
highest praise--and on whose brow Th' imperishable wreath of fame shall bloom; Nor is this
fate less happy than the rest, That he should paint thee, who can paint thee best!

TO CHARITY.

HYMN.

Sung by the Children of the City of London School of Instruction and Industry.

CHORUS.

Sacred, and heart-deep be the sound
  Which speaks the Great Redeemer's praise,
His mercies every where abound,
  Let all their grateful voices raise.

BOYS.

The friendless child, to manhood grown,
  Will ne'er forget your parent care;
You've made each youthful heart your own,
  Oh! then accept our humble prayer.

GIRLS.

For ever be that bounty praised,
  Which every comfort doth impart;
In tears of joy the song is raised
  From minstrels of the glowing heart.

CHORUS.

Glory to Thee, all-bounteous Power!
  In notes of thankfulness be given;
Sure solace in affliction's hour!
  Our hope on Earth, our bliss in Heaven.
                     Hallelujah! Amen.

For her dear sake I braved the letter'd fates,
  And all her loose thoughts in one volume cramm'd;
"The Accomplish'd Cook, in verse, with twenty plates:"
  Which (O! ungrateful deed!) the critics d----d.

D--n them, I say, the tasteless envious elves;
  Malicious fancy makes them so expert,
They write 'bout dinners, who ne'er dine themselves,
  And boast of linen, who ne'er had a shirt.

SUNDAY.

Come, thou blessed day of rest! Soother of the tortured breast, Wearied souls release from
toil, Life's eternal sad turmoil; How I love thy tuneful bells Which a welcome story tells!
Bids the wanderer rest and pray On this peaceful holy-day. All creation seems to pause-- Man,
uncatechized by laws, Looks to God with grateful eyes, In such blessed sympathies, All his
rebel nature dies! See the monster crime hath made, Resting from his restless trade, Unfit
to live, afraid to die, Hear his deep unconscious sigh, See his former horrid mien, Changed
to the bright, serene, View him on his BIBLE rest, Care no longer gnaws his breast; Heaven,
in mercy, let him live, Religion, such the peace you give!

A NIGHT-STORM.

Let this rough fragment lend its mossy seat; Let Contemplation hail this lone retreat: Come,
meek-eyed goddess, through the midnight gloom, Born of the silent awe which robes the tomb!
This gothic front, this antiquated pile, The bleak wind howling through each mazy aisle; Its
high gray towers, faint peeping through the shade, Shall hail thy presence, consecrated maid!
Whether beneath some vaulted abbey's dome, Where ev'ry footstep sounds in every tomb; Where
Superstition, from the marble stone, Gives every sound, a pilgrim-spirit's groan: Pensive thou
readest by the moon's full glare The sculptured children of Affection's tear; Or in the church-yard
lone thou sitt'st to weep O'er some sad wreck, beneath the tufty heap-- Perchance some victim
to Seduction's spell, Who yielded, wept, and then neglected fell!

But hither come, on yon swoln arch to gaze, And view the vivid flash eruptive blare; Light
those high walls with transitory gleam, Illume the air, and sparkle in the stream. Ah! look,
where yonder tempest-shaken cloud, Awful and black as the chaosian shroud, Breaks, like the
waves which lash the sandy shore, And speaks its mission in a feeble row. Thus Meditation hears:
"Aspiring height! Of old, the splendid mansions of the great; Thy fate (tremendous) lours upon
the blast, And waits to write on thy remains:--'tis past! Oft have the genii of the hoary blade
Around thy walls their hell-born demons led; Yet hast thou triumph'd o'er each monster's car,
And braved the ills of pestilential war: Oft hast thou seen the circling seasons roll In fond
succession round thy native pole; Defied the hoary matron of the ring, And seen her sicken
in the lap of Spring. But, ah! no more thy time-clad head shall rise To dare the tempest, while
it shakes the skies; Nor one small wreck invade the fair concave, Nor shout above its crumbling
basis, Save! When rising zephyr from thy ruin brings A world of atoms on its fairy wings."

Din horrible! as though the rebel train Had sprung from chaos, fought, and fall'n again, Raves
the high bolt: how yon old structure fell; How every cranny trembled with the yell Of frighted
owls, whose secret haunts forlorn Were from their kindred vaults and windings torn; Of bold
Antiquity's rough pencil born. Thrice Fancy leads the dismal echo round, And paints the spectre
gliding o'er the ground. From ev'ry turret, ev'ry vanquish'd tower, In heaps confused the broken
fragments pour; And, as they plunge toward the pebbly grave, Like wizard wand, draw circles
in the wave. Meand'ring stream! thy liquid jaws extend, Anoint with Lethe now thy fallen friend.
Again the heralds of the thunder fly, In forky squadrons, from the trembling sky!

Again the thunder its harsh menace swells, And light-wing'd echoes hail the humbled cells!
Weep, weep, ye clouds! with heav'n-bespangled tears; And, ah! if pity rules your sacred spheres,
Invoke the thunder to withstay its rage, Disarm its fury, and its wrath assuage.

But now, Aurora, from the Ocean's verge, Trims her gray lamp, to light the mournful dirge.
She comes, to light the ruinated heap: But lights, to wake the pensive soul to weep!

TAKING ORDERS.

A TALE, FOUNDED ON FACT.

A parson once--and poorer he Than ever parson ought to be; Yet not so proud as some from College,
Who fancy they alone have knowledge; Who only learn to dress and drink, And, strange to say,
still seem to think That no real talent's to be found Except within their classic ground; Yet
prove that Cam's nor Oxon's plains Can't furnish empty skulls with brains. But for my tale--Our
churchman came, And, in religion's honour'd name, Sought Cam's delightful classic borders,
To be prefer'd to Holy Orders. Chance led him to the Trav'llers' Inn, Where living's cheap,
and often whim Enlivens many a weary soul, And helps, in the o'erflowing bowl, In spite of
fogs, and threatening weather, To drown both grief and gloom together:-- (Oh, Wit! thou'rt
like a little blue, Soft cloud, in summer breaking through A frowning one, and lighting it
Till darkness fadeth bit by bit; And Whim to thee is near allied, And follows closely at thy
side; So oft, oh, Wit! I'm told that she By some folks is mista'en for thee; Yet I may say
unto my eyes, Just whereabouts the difference lies; One's diamond quite, and, to my taste,
The other is but Dovey's Paste.)-- He there a ready welcome found From one who travell'd England
round: "Sir, your obedient--quite alone? I'm truly happy you are come: Pray, sir, be seated;--business
dull;-- Or else this room had now been full; Orders and cash are strangers here, And every
thing looks dev'lish queer; Bad times these, sir, sad lack of wealth; Must hope for better;--Sir,
your health!" Then added, with inquiring face, "Come to take Orders in this place?"

"Yes, sir, I am," replied the priest: "With that intent I came at least." "Ha! ha! I knew it
very well; We business-men can others tell: Often before I've seen your face, Though memory
can't recal the place-- Ah! now I have it; head of mine! You travel in the button line?"

"Begging your pardon, sir, I fear Some error has arisen here; You have mista'en my trade divine,
But, sir, the worldly loss is mine-- I travel in a much worse line."

THE GIPSY'S HOME.

A GLEE.

Sung by Messrs. PYNE, NELSON, Miss WITHAM, and Master LONGHURST.--Composed by Mr. ROOKE.

We, who the wide world make our home;
  The barren heath our cheerful bed;
Careless o'er mount and moor we roam,
  And never tears of sorrow shed.
           But merrily, O! Merrily, O!
           Through this world of care we go.

Love, that a palace left in tears,
  Flew to our houseless feast of mirth:
For here, unfetter'd, beauty cheers,
 The heaven alone that's found on earth!
           Then merrily, O! Merrily, O!
           Through this world of care we go.

SONNET.

THE BEGGAR.

SONG.

TO ELIZA.

WRITTEN IN HER ALBUM.

I dare not spoil this spotless page
  With any feeble verse of mine;
The Poet's fire has lost its rage,
  Around his lyre no myrtles twine.

The voice of fame cannot recal
  Those fairy days of past delight,
When pleasure seem'd to welcome all,
  And morning hail'd a welcome night.

E'en love has lost its soothing power,
  Its spells no more can chain my soul;
I must not venture in the bower,
  Where Wit and Verse and Wine controul.

And yet, I fear, in thoughtless mirth
  I once did say, Eliza, dear!
That I would tell the world thy worth,
  And write the living record here.

Come Love, and Truth, and Friendship, come,
  Enwreath'd in Virtue's snowy arms,
With magic rhymes the page illume,
  And fancy sketch her varied charms--

Which o'er the cares of home has thrown
  A thousand blessings, deep engraved,
For every heart she makes her own,
  And every friend is free-enslaved.

No Inspiration o'er my pen
  Glows with the lightning's vivid spell;
My soul is sad--forgive me then,
  My heart's too full the tale to tell!

Yet, if the humblest poet's theme
  Be welcome in Eliza's name;
Then, angel, give the cheering gleam,
  For thy approving smile is fame!

ELEGY

On THE DEATH OF

ABRAHAM GOLDSMID, ESQ.

When stern Misfortune, monitress severe!
  Dissolves Prosperity's enchanting dreams,
And, chased from Man's probationary sphere,
  Fair Hope withdraws her vivifying beams.

If then, untaught to bend at Heaven's high will,
  The desp'rate mortal dares the dread unknown,
To future fate appeals from present ill,
  And stands, uncall'd, before th' Eternal throne!

Shall justice there immutably decide?
  Dread thought! which Reason trembles to explore,
She feels, be mercy granted or denied,
  'Tis her's in dumb submission to adore.

Yet, could the self-doom'd victim be forgiven
  His final error, for his merits past;
Could virtuous life, propitiating Heaven
  With former deeds, extenuate the last:

Then GOLDSMID! Mercy, to thy humble shrine,
  Angel of heaven beloved, should wing her flight,
Should in her bosom bid thy head recline,
  And waft thee onward to the realms of light.

And, oh! could human intercession plead,
  Breathed ardent to'ards that undiscover'd shore,
What hearts unnumber'd for thy fate that bleed,
  Would warm oblations for thy pardon pour.

Misfortune's various tribes thy worth should tell,
  Whose acts to no peculiar sect confined;
Impartial, with expansive bounty fell,
  Like heaven's refreshing dews on all mankind.

Where stern Disease his rankling arrows sped,
  While Want, with hard inexorable band,
Strew'd keener thorns on Pain's afflictive bed,
  And urged the flight of life's diminish'd sand.

By hostile stars oppress'd, where Talent toil'd,
  Encountering fate with perseverance vain;
The Merchant's hopes, when War's dire arm despoil'd,
  Or tempests 'whelm'd in the remorseless main.

GOLDSMID! thy hand benign assuagement spread,
  Sustain'd pale sickness, drooping o'er the tomb;
Raised modest Merit from his lowly shed,
  And gave Misfortune's blasted hopes to bloom.

Yet wealth, too oft perverted from its end,
  Suspends the noblest functions of the soul;
Where, chill'd as Apathy's cold frosts, extends,
  Compassion's sacred stream forgets to roll.

And oft, where seeming Pity moves the mind,
  From self's mean source the liberal current flows;
While Ostentation, insolently kind,
  Wounds while he soothes, insults while he bestows.

But thy free bounty, undebased by pride,
  Prompt to anticipate the meek request,
Unask'd the wants of modest Worth supplied,
  And spared the pang that shook the suppliant's breast.

Yet say! on Fortune's orb, which o'er thy head
  Blazed forth erewhile pre-eminently bright,
When dark Adversity her eclipse spread,
  And veil'd its splendours in petrific night!

Did those, thy benefits had placed on high,
  Who revell'd still in wealth's meridian ray;
Did those impatient to thy succour fly,
  Anxious the debt of gratitude to pay?

Or, thy fall'n fortunes coldly whispering round,
  Scowl'd they aloof in that disastrous hour?
On keen Misfortune's agonizing wound
  Did foul Ingratitude her poisons pour?

If thy distress such aggravation knew,
  Thy first reverse could such perdition wait;
Well might Despair thy generous heart subdue,
  And Desperation close the scene of fate.

Yet while Distraction urged her purpose dire,
  Rose not, at Nature's interposed command,
The sacred claims of Brother, Husband, Sire,
  To win the weapon from thy lifted hand?

Ah, yes! and ere that agony was o'er,
  Ere yet thy soul its last resolve embraced,
What pangs could equal those thy breast that tore,
  Thy breast with Nature's tenderest feelings graced?

Those only which, at thy accomplish'd fate,
  That home display'd, thy smiles were wont to bless;
That dreadful scene what language can relate,
  What words describe that exquisite distress.

The Muse recedes--in Grief's domestic scene
  Th' intrusive gaze prophanes the tears that flow:
Drop, Pity! there thy hallowed veil between;
  Guard, Silence! there the sacredness of woe.

Nor let the sectarist, whose faith austere
  Pretends alone to point th' eternal road;
Proud of his creed, pronounce with voice severe,
  All else excluded from the blest abode.

If error thine, not GOLDSMID! thine the fault,
  Since first thy infant years instruction drew;
From youth's gradations up to manhood taught
  That faith to reverence which thy fathers knew.

In Retribution's last tremendous hour,
  When its pale captives, long in dust declined,
The grave shall yield, and time shall death devour,
  When He who saved, shall come to judge mankind.

While Christian-infidels shall tremble round,
  Who call'd HIM Master! whom their acts denied:
Imputed faith may in thy deeds be found,
  And thy eternal doom those deeds decide.

MISTER PUNCH.

A HASTY SKETCH.

Who stops the Minister of State, When hurrying to the Lords' debate? Who, spite of gravity
beguiles, The solemn Bishop of his smiles? See from the window, "burly big," The Judge pops
out his awful wig, Yet, seems to love a bit of gig!--While both the Sheriffs and the Mayor
Forget the "Address"--and stop to stare--And who detains the Husband true, Running to Doctor
Doode-Doo, To save his Wife "in greatest danger;" While e'en the Doctor keeps the stranger
Another hour from life and light, To gape at the bewitching sight. The Bard, in debt, whom
Bailiffs ferret, Despite his poetry and merit, Stops in his quick retreat awhile, And tries
the long-forgotten smile; E'en the pursuing Bum forgets His business, and the man of Debts;
The one neglecting "Caption"--"Bail"-- The other "thoughts of gyves and Jail"-- So wondrous
are the spells that bind The noble and ignoble mind. The Paviour halts in mid-grunt--stands
With rammer in his idle hands; And quite refined, and at his ease, Forgetting onions, bread,
and cheese, The hungry Drayman leaves his lunch, To take a peep at Mister Punch.

Delightful thy effects to see, Thou charm of age and infancy! The old Man clears his rheumy
eye, The six months' Babe forgets to cry; No passers by--all fondly gloat, So welcome is thy
cheering note, Which time nor taste has ever changed; And after every clime we've ranged, Return
to thee--our childhood's joy, And, spite of age, still play the boy!

Yon pious Thing who walks by rule, Unconscious laughs, and plays the fool, And by his side
the prim old Maid Looks "welcome fun" and "who's afraid." Behold, that happy ruddy face, In
which there seems no vacant place, That could another joy impart, For one laugh more would
break his heart. And, lo, behind! his sober Brother, Striving in vain the laugh to smother.
That giggling Girl must burst outright, For Punch has now possess'd her quite. While She, who
ran to Chemist's shop For life or death--here finds a stop: Forgets for whom--for what--she
ran, And leaves to Heaven the bleeding man! The Parish Beadle, gilded calf, Lays by his terror,
joins the laugh, Permits poor souls, without offence, To sell their fruit and count their pence,
And, as by humour grown insane, Allows the boys to touch his cane! Poor little Sweep true comfort
quaffs, Ceases to cry--and loudly laughs. See! what a wondrous powerful spell Punch holds o'er
Dustman and his bell; And scolding Wife with clapper still-- The Landlord quits awhile his
till, While Pot-boy, busiest of the bunch, Steals pence for self, and beer for Punch. Look
at that window, you may trace At every pane a laughing face. Yon graceful Girl and her smart
Lover, And in the story just above her, The Housemaid, with her hair in papers, All finding
Punch a cure for vapours. E'en the pale Dandy, fresh from France, Throws on the group an eye
askance; Twirls his moustache, and seems to fear That some gay friend may catch him here. The
Widowed wretch, who only fed, On bitter thoughts and tear-wash'd bread, Forgets her cares,
and seems to smile To see friend Punch her babe beguile. Magician of the wounded heart, Oh!
there thy wonted aid impart: Long be the merryman of our Isle, And win the universal smile!

CONTENT.

In some lone hamlet it were better far
  To live unknown amid Contentment's isle,
Than court the bauble of an air-blown star,
  Or barter honour for a prince's smile!

Hail! tranquil-brow'd Content, forth sylvan god,
  Who lov'st to sit beside some cottage fire,
Where the brown presence of the blazing clod
  Regales the aspect of the aged sire.

There, when the Winter's children, bleak and cold,
  Are through December's gloomy regions led;
The church-yard tale of sheeted ghost is told,
  While fix'd attention dares not turn its head.

Or if the tale of ghost, or pigmy sprite,
  Is stripp'd by theme more cheerful of its power,
The song employs the early dim of night,
  Till village-curfew counts a later hour.

And oft the welcome neighbour loves to stop,
  To tell the market news, to laugh, and sing,
O'er the loved circling jug, whose old brown top
  Is wet with kisses from the florid ring!

There, whilst the cricket chirps its chimney song,
  Within some crumbling chink, with moss embrown'd,
The lighted stick diverts the infant throng,
  And fans are waved, and ribbands twirl'd around.

Entwine for me the wreath of rural mirth,
  And blast the murm'ring fiend, from chaos sent;
Then, while the house-dog snores upon the hearth,
 I'll sit, and hail thy sacred name, CONTENT!

EPITAPH.

ON MATILDA.

TO ------.

AN IMPROMPTU.

THE STEAM-BOAT.

Say, dark prow'd visitant! that o'er the brine
  Stalk'st proudly--heeding not what wind may blow,
What chart, what compass, shapes that course of thine,
  Whence didst thou come, and whither dost thou go?

Art thou a Monster born of sky and sea?
  Art thou a Pagod moving in thine ire?
Were I a Savage I must bend to thee,
  A Ghiber? I must own thee "God of fire."

The affrighted billows fly thy hissing rout,
  Thy wake is followed by turmoil and din,
Blackness and darkness track thy course without,
  And fire and groans and vapours strive within.

And they who cling about thee--who are they?
  And canst thou be that fabled boat, that waits
On the dark banks of Styx for souls? Oh, say!
  Let me not burst in ignorance--thy freight.

Thus spake I, wandering near the Brighton shore,
  Straining my very eye-balls from my Cab;
First came two "ten-horse" laughs--and then a roar,
  "Be off, queer Chap, or I'll soon stop your gab!"

Then swept she onward, breathing mist and cloud,
  While from my bosom this reflection broke;
Although I think the steam-boat something proud,
  Such lofty questions often end in smoke.
To all Grandiloquents a hint I deem it,
And whilst I live, I'll ever such esteem it.

SONNET.

TO LYDIA,

ON HER BIRTH-DAY.
Loved friend, farewell! thy name this heart shall fill,
  Till memory sinks, and all its griefs are still!

TO SARAH, WHILE SINGING.

Written at the Cottage of T. LEWIS, Esq. Woodbury Downs.

In the retirement of this lovely spot, Sacred to friendship, industry, and worth, To boundless
hospitality and mirth, Be ever peace and joy--all care forgot, Save that which carest for a
higher, holier, lot!

And thou, sweet girl, whose lovely modest mien, Cheers the gay banquet with unconscious wiles,
Long mayest thou grace it with affection's smiles, The vocal syren of this sylvan scene. Warbling
thy sweetest notes 'midst flowers and woodlands green.

Long be the social circle's grace and pride, Of parents' hopes, the dearest and the best, "The
Dove of promise to this ark of rest:" Who, when around the world's fierce billows ride, Beareth
the branch that speaks of the receding tide!

I love the joyous thoughtless heart,
  The revels of the youthful mind,
'Ere sad experience points the dart,
  Which wounds so surely all mankind.

It glads me when the buoyant soul,
  Unconscious ranges, fancy free,
Draining the sweets of pleasure's bowl,
  And thinking all as blest as he.

Ah! me, yet sad it is to know,
  The many griefs the future brings,
That time must change that note to woe,
  Which now its merry carrol sings.

This "summer of the mind," alas!
  Must have its autumn--leafless, bare,
When all these pleasing phantoms pass,
  And end in winter, age, and care!

Such, such is life, the moral tells--
  The tempest, and its sunny smiles,
A warning voice the cheerful bells,
  The knell of death, our youth beguiles!

SENT FOR THE ALBUM

OF THE REV. G---- C----,

With a Drawing of the Head of an Eminent Artist.

Dear Sir, you remember, when Herod of Jewry Had given a ball, how a shocking old fury Demanded,
so bent was the vixen on slaughter. The head of St. John at the hand of her daughter: Now do
not detest me, nor hold me in dread, Because, like King Herod, I send you a head: Not a saint's,
by-the-bye, although taken from life, But a head of my friend, by the hand of my wife.

WRITTEN

UNDER AN ELEGANT DRAWING OF A DEAD CANARY BIRD,

By Miss A.M. TURNER, Daughter of the Eminent Engraver.

Death to the very life! not the closed eye,
  Not those small paralytic limbs alone,
But every feather tells so mournfully
  Thy fate, and that thy little life has flown.

Manhood forbids that I should weep, and yet
  Sadness comes o'er my spirit, and I stand
Gazing intensely, and with mute regret,
  Turn from the wonder of the artist's hand.

Exquisite artist! could I praise thee more
  Than by the silent admiration? no!
And now I try to praise I must deplore
  How feeble is the verse that tells thee so;
But thou art gaining for thyself a fame
Worthy thyself, thy sex, and thy dear father's name!

LINES

SUGGESTED BY THE DEATH OF

THE PRINCESS CHARLOTTE.

Genius of England! wherefore to the earth
  Is thy plumed helm, thy peerless sceptre cast?
Thy courts of late with minstrelsy and mirth
  Rang jubilant, and dazzling pageants past;
Kings, heroes, martial triumphs, nuptial rites--

Now, like a cypress, shiver'd by the blast,
  Or mountain-cedar, which the lightning smites,
In dust and darkness sinks thy head declined,
  Thy tresses streaming wild on ocean's reckless wind.

Art thou not glorious?--In that night of storms,
  When He, in Power's supremacy elate,
  Gaul's fierce Usurper! fulminating fate,
    The Goth's barbaric tyranny restored,
And science, art, and all life's fairer forms,
    Sunk to the dark dominion of the sword:
Didst thou not, champion of insulted man!
  Confront this stern Destroyer in his pride?
    Didst thou not crush him in the battle shock,
While recent victory shouted in his van,
  And shrunk the nations, shadow'd by his stride?
    Yea, chain him howling to yon desert rock,
  Where, thronging ghastly from uncounted graves,
  His victims murmur 'midst the groans of waves,
And mock his soul's despair, his deep blaspheming ban!

Nor erst, in Liberty's avenging day,
  When, launching lightnings in her wrath divine,
  She rose, and gave to never-dying fame,
Platæ, Marathon, Thermopylæ,
  Did each, did all, sublimer laurels twine
  Round Græcia's conquering brows, than Waterloo on thine!

Then, wherefore, Albion! terror-struck, subdued,
  Sitt'st thou, thy state foregone, thy banner furl'd?
What dire infliction shakes that fortitude,
  Which propt the falling fortunes of the world?--
Hush! hark! portentous, like a withering spell
  From lips unblest--strange sounds mine ear appal;
Now the dread omens more distinctly swell--
  That thrilling shriek from Claremont's royal hall,
The death-note peal'd from yon terrific bell,
  The deepening gale with lamentation swoln--
These, Albion! these, too eloquently tell,
  That from her radiant sphere, thy brightest star has fall'n!

And art thou gone?--graced vision of an hour!
  Daughter of Monarchs! gem of England's crown!
Thou loveliest lily! fair imperial flower!
  In beauty's vernal bloom to dust gone down;
Gone when, dispers'd each inauspicious cloud,
  In blissful sunshine 'gan thy hopes to glow:
From pain's fierce grasp, no refuge but the shroud,
  Destin'd a Mother's pangs, but not her joys, to know.

Lost excellence! what harp shall hymn thy worth,
  Nor wrong the theme? conspicuously in thee,
Beyond the blind pre-eminence of birth,
  Shone Nature in her own regality!
Coerced, thy Spirit smiled, sedate in pride,
  Fixt as the pine, while circling storms contend;
But, when in Life's serener duties tried,
  How sweetly did its gentle essence blend,
All-beauteous in the wife, the daughter, and the
    friend!

Not lull'd in langours, indolent and weak,
  Nor winged by pleasure, fled thy early hours;
But ceaseless vigils blanch'd thy virgin cheek,
  In silent Study's dim-sequester'd bowers:
Propitious there, to thy admiring mind,
  With brow unveil'd, consenting Science came;
There Taste awoke her sympathies refined;
 There Genius, kindling his etherial flame,
Led thy young soul the Muse's heights to dare,
  And mount on Milton's wing, and breathe empyreal air!

But chiefly, conscious of thy promised throne,
  Intent to grace that destiny sublime;
Thou sought'st to make the historic page thine own,
  And win the treasures of recorded time;
The forms of polity, the springs of power,
  Exploring still with inexhausted zeal;
Still, the pole-star which led thy studious hour
  Through Thought's unfolding tracts--thy Country's weal!
While Fancy, radiant with unearthly charms,
  Thus breathed the whisper Wisdom sanctified:
"Eliza's, Anna's glories, arts, or arms,
  Beneath thy sway shall blaze revivified,
And still prolonged, and still augmenting, shine
Interminably bright in thy illustrious line!"

'Tis past--thy name, with every charm it bore, Melts on our souls, like music heard no more,
The dying minstrel's last ecstatic strain, Which mortal hand shall never wake again-- But,
if, blest spirit! in thy shrine of light, Life's visions rise to thy celestial sight; If that
bright sphere where raptured seraphs glow, Permit communion with this world of woe; And sore,
if thus our fond affections deem, Hope mocks us not, for Heaven inspires the dream-- Benignant
shade! the beatific kiss That seal'd thy welcome to the shores of bliss, No holier joy instill'd,
than then wilt feel If thine the task thy kindred's woes to heal; If hovering yet, with viewless
ministry, In scenes which Memory consecrates to thee, Thou soothe with binding balm which grief
endears, A Sire's, a Husband's, and--a Mother's tears!--

Till Pity's self expire, a Nation's sighs, Spontaneous incense! o'er thy tomb shall rise: And,
'midst the dark vicissitudes that wait Earth's balanced empires in the scales of Fate, Be thou
OUR angel-advocate the while, And gleam, a guardian saint, around thy native isle!

THE PRESUMPTUOUS FLY.

Sung by Mr. PYNE.--Composed by Mr. ROOKE.

Come away, come away, little fly!
      Come away, little fly, &c.

THE HEROES OF WATERLOO.

Address, written for a Benefit, at a Provincial Theatre, for the Wounded Survivors, Families,
and Relatives, of the Heroes of Waterloo.

Once more Britannia sheathes her conqu'ring sword, And Peace returns, by Victory restored;
Peace, that erewhile estranged, 'midst long alarms, Scarce welcomed home, was ravish'd from
our arms; What time, fierce bounding from his broken chain, Gaul's banish'd Despot re-aspired
to reign; Whilst at his call, prompt minions of his breath, Round his dire throne rush'd Havoc,
Spoil, and Death; With wonted pomp his baleful ensign blazed, And Europe shrunk, and shudder'd
as she gazed. Insulted Liberty her tocsin rung; Again Britannia to the combat sprung: Star
of the Nations! her auspicious form Led on their march, and foremost braved the storm.

Pent-in its clouds, ere yet the tempest flash'd, Ere peal on peal the mingling thunder crash'd;
While Fate hung dubious o'er the marshall'd powers, What anxious fears, what trembling hopes,
were ours! For never yet from Gallia's confines came War's fell eruption with so fierce a flame:
She sent a Chief, matur'd in martial strife, Who fought for fame, for empire, and for life;
Whose Host had sworn, deep-stung with recent shame, To satiate vengeance, and retrieve their
fame! Each furious impulse, each hot throb, was there, That spurs Ambition, or inflames Despair.
Then Britain fix'd on her Unconquer'd Son, Her eye, her hope--immortal WELLINGTON! He, skill'd
to crash, with one collective blow Sustain'd sedate the fierce assaulting foe. How stood his
squadrons like the steadfast rock, Frowning on Ocean's ineffectual shock! Till forward summon'd
to the fierce attack, They give to Gaul his furious onset back; Swift on its prey each fiery
legion springs, As when Heaven's ire the vollied lightning wings! Then Gallia's blood in expiation
stream'd, Then trembling Europe saw her fate redeem'd; And England, radiant in her triumph
past, Beheld them all transcended in the last: Yes, raptured Britons blest the gale that blew
The tidings home--the tale of Waterloo! But, oh! while joy tumultuous hail'd the day, Cold
on the plain what gallant victims lay! Deaf to the triumph of their sacred cause, Deaf to their
country's shout, the world's applause!

Rear high the column, bid the marble breathe, Pour soft the verse, and twine the laureate wreath;
From year to year let musing Memory shed Her tenderest tears, to grace the glorious dead. 'Tis
ours with grateful ardour to sustain The wounded veteran on his bed of pain; To soothe the
widow, sunk in anguish deep, Whose orphan weeps to see its mother weep.

Oh! when, outstretch'd on that triumphant field, The prostrate Warrior felt his labours seal'd;
Felt, 'midst the shout of Victory pealing round, Life's eddying stream fast welling from his
wound; Perchance Affection bade her visions rise-- Wife, children, floated o'er his closing
eyes: For them alone he heaved the bitter sigh; Yet for his country glorying thus to die! To
her bequeath'd them with his parting breath, And sunk serene in unregretted death.--

To no cold ear was that appeal prefer'd; With glowing bosom grateful England heard; With liberal
hand she pours the prompt relief, Soothes the sick head, and wipes the tear of grief.

Our humble efforts consecrate, to-night, To this great cause, our small but willing mite. Bright
are the wreaths the warrior's urn which grace, And bless'd the bounty that protects his race!
Thus warm'd, thus waken'd, with congenial fire, Each hero's son shall emulate his sire; From
age to age prolong the glorious line, And guard their country with a shield divine!

THE NIGHT-BLOWING CEREUS.

Can it be true, so fragrant and so fair,
  To give thy perfumes to the dews of night?
Can aught so beautiful, despise the glare,
  And fade, and sicken in the morning light?

Yes! peerless flower, the Heavens alone exhale
  Thy fragrance, while the glittering stars attest,
And incense wafted by the midnight gale,
  Untainted rises from thy spotless breast.

How like that Faith whose nature is apart
  From human gaze, to love and work unseen,
Which gives to God an undivided heart,
  In sorrow steadfast, and in joy serene;
That night-flower of the soul, whose fragrant power
Breathes on the darkness of the closing hour!

1827;

OR, THE POET'S LAST POEM.

Ye Bards in all your thousand dens, Great souls with fewer pence than pens, Sublime adorers
of Apollo, With folios full, and purses hollow; Whose very souls with rapture glisten, When
you can find a fool to listen; Who, if a debt were paid by pun, Would never be completely done.
Ye bright inhabitants of garrets, Whose dreams are rich in ports and clarets, Who, in your
lofty paradise, See aldermanic banquets rise-- And though the duns around you troop, Still
float in seas of turtle soup. I here forsake the tuneful trade, Where none but lordlings now
are paid, Or where some northern rogue sits puling, (The curse of universal schooling)-- A
ploughman to his country lost, An author to his printer's cost-- A slave to every man who'll
buy him, A knave to every man who'll try him-- Yet let him take the pen, at once The laurel
gathers round his sconce!

On every subject superseded, My favorite topics all invaded, I scarcely dip my pen in praise,
When fifty bardlings grasp my bays; Or let me touch a drop of satire, (I once knew something
of the matter), Just fifty bardlings take the trouble, To be my tuneful worship's double. Fine
similies that nothing fit, Joe Miller's, that must pass for wit; The dull, dry, brain-besieging
jokes, The humour that no laugh provokes-- The nameless, worthless, witless rancours, The rage
that souls of scribblers cankers-- (Administer'd in gall go thick, It makes even Sunday critic's
sick!) Disgust my passion, fill my place, And snatch my prize before my face.

If then I take the "brilliant" pen. And "scorning measures" talk of men-- There Luttrel steps
'twixt me and fame-- So like, egad, we're just the same; I never half squeeze out a thought,
But jumps its fellow on the spot-- My tenderest dreams, my fondest touch, Are victims to his
ready clutch; The whirling waltz, the gay costume, The porcelain tooth, the gallic bloom; The
vapid smiles, the lisping loves Of turtles (never meant for doves)-- The dreary stuff that
fills the ears, Where all the orators are peers-- The hides reveal'd through ball-room dresses,
Where all the parties are peer-esses; The dulness of the toujours gai, The yawning night, the
sleepy day, The visages of cheese and chalk, The drowsy, dreamy, languid talk; The fifty other
horrid things, That strip old Time of both his wings! There's not a topic of them all But comes,
hey presto! at his call.

Or when I turn my pen to love, A theme that fits me like my glove, A pang I've borne these
twenty years With ten-times twenty several dears, Each glance a dart, each smile a quiver,
Stinging their bard from lungs to liver-- To  work my ruin, or my cure, Up starts thy pen,
Anacreon Moore! In vain I pour my shower of roses, On which the matchless fair one dozes, And
plant around her conch the graces, While jealous Venus breaks her laces, To see a younger face
promoted, To see her own old face out-voted; And myrtle branches twisting o'er her, Bow down,
each turn'd a true adorer. Up starts the Irish Bard--in vain I write, 'tis all against the
grain: In vain I talk of smiles or sighs, The girls all have him in their eyes; And not a soul--mamma,
or miss-- But vows he's the sole Bard of Bliss!

Since first I dipp'd in the romantic, A hundred thousand have run frantic-- There's not a hideous
highland spot, (Long fallowed to the core by Scott)-- No rill, through rack and thistle dribbling,
But has its deadlier crop of scribbling. Each fen, and flat, and flood, and fell, Gives birth
to verses by the ell-- There Wordsworth, for his muse's sallies, Claims all the ponds, the
lanes, and alleys-- There Coleridge swears none else shall tune A bag-pipe to the list'ning
moon; On come in clouds the scribbling columns, Each prowling for his next three volumes. I
scorn the rascal tribe, and spurn all The yearly, monthly, and diurnal.

I write the finest things that ever Made duchess fond, or marquiss clever-- (Although I'd rather
half turn Turk, The thing's such monstrous up-hill work). My ton's the very cream of fashion,
My passion the sublimest passion, My rage satanic, love the same, Of all blue flames, the bluest
flame-- My piety perpetual matins, A quaker propp'd on double pattens; My lovely girls the
most precocious, My beaus delightfully atrocious! Yet scarcely have I play'd my card, When
up comes politician Ward, Before my face he trumps my trump, Sweeps off my honours in the lump,
And never asking my permission, Talks sermons to the third edition.

Or Boulogne, Highway Byeway, Grattan, (The Pyrenees begin to flatten, A feast denied to storm
and shower, The pen's the wonder-working power); Or Smith, the master of "Addresses," Carves
history out in modern messes:-- Tells how gay Charles cook'd up his collops, How fleeced his
friends, how paid his trollops-- How pledged his soul, and pawn'd his oath, 'Till none would
give a straw for both; And touching paupers for the Evil, Touch'd England half way to the devil
Or Hook, picks up my favorite hits, For when was friendship between wits? Or Lyster, doubly
dandyfied, Fidgets his donkey by my side; Or Bulwer rambles back from Greece, Woolgathering
from the Golden fleece-- Or forty volumes, piping hot, Come blazing from volcano Scott; When
pens like their's play all my game. The tasteless world must bear the blame.

I had a budget, full of fan, But here again, I'm lost, undone! I'm so forestall'd--that faith,
I could Half quarrel with--my lively Hood: For odd it is, my "Oddities," Are even all the same
with his; Would Sherwood (him of Paternoster), Assist my pilferings to foster, I'd turn free-booter--nay,
I would E'en play the part of robbing Hood-- But brother Wits should never quarrel, Nor try
to "pluck each other's laurel," And tho' my income's scarce enough To find friend Petersham
with snuff, Here's peace to all! and kind regards! And Brother Hood among the Bards.

So all, friends, countrymen, and lovers, With one, or one and twenty covers, Farewell to all;--my
glories past, I pen my lay, my sweetest, last! Another Phoenix, build my nest Of spices, Phoebus'
very best, Concentrating in these gay pages, Wit, worth the wit of all the stages; Love, tender
as the midnight talk, In softest summer's midnight walk, With leave to all earth's fools to
spurn 'em, Nay (if they first will buy) to burn 'em.

TO THE REVIEWERS.

