But the question came again.

"And the provisions of his will--for myself and for--for others?" A wave of color had flushed
her cheek and brow.

He looked at her searchingly, seeking for words that might best comfort. "I know them," he
said, "the provisions of the will having been told me by your Majesty's messenger: and I, being
a Greek, and the friend of the people, that which toucheth them, toucheth me. My daughter,
the sins of the race descend from father to son, and are in the blood; and there hath been
no loving care of holy women about his childhood--which should be remembered and win forgiveness."

"It is no question of forgiveness," she answered proudly, "of which I would speak with thee--that
lieth between our Holy Mother in Heaven and the souls of those who suffer." She seemed to dismiss
the subject with an imperious wave of her slight hand. "It is a question of human judgment
in which that of a holy man may avail, but in which this knowledge is necessary--else had it
not been spoken of."

She paused for a moment to gather strength, while the old man watched her in growing wonder--so
young--so wronged--so tender--so brave--so strong to endure!

Hagios Johannes the elder had been known through the long years of his canonization as Lampadisti,
the illumined: and as the prior listened, he prayed with fervor that the wisdom of his sainted
predecessor might descend upon his soul.

"My Father," she resumed with a great effort, "I knew not of this history of the last of our
Kings of Cyprus, until my marriage had been made.... I knew not of any right of Carlotta, being
own daughter to the King, the father of my husband"--again that tremulous pause of unuttered
music--"to contest the crown with him, until I learned it in Cyprus, these few weeks past."

Her head drooped lower, but she went on resolutely. "I knew not, until I came to Cyprus--for
they who knew and should have told me, held the knowledge from me--that any might question
the right of Janus--my husband--to this kingdom of Cyprus--he being only son to the King. For
I knew not that his mother was not the Queen, until I came hither."

She paused again to gather strength, lifting her guileless great eyes to his, in agonized appeal,
while he watched her dumbly.

"And now, my Father," she said, throwing back her head with sudden vigor, and with the dignity
of a great resolve, "this is my question, which hath come to me in the watches of the night
and will not be denied, and for which I have summoned thee. I--being wife to Janus, who hath
been crowned King of this people--and I, with him, crowned Queen; and by his will left Queen
of Cyprus--with Council, appointed by him, to help me rule; shall I, a Christian woman--a Venetian
and not a Cyprian--his widow--hold this kingdom against Carlotta, who is daughter to the King,
the father of my husband--and to the rightful Queen, Elenà--his father's lawful wife?"

He was dumbfounded and could not answer her at once; but while he sought for words he bowed
his head in mute reverence.

"My daughter," he said at length, "hath this question been put to thee by any men of Cyprus?"

"Nay, Father; but it hath come to me in these sad nights, because I fain would do the right--that
which is well for my people: and life is very difficult."

"My people," again, uttered with the accent of a mother who folds her child to her heart--it
was a revelation; but he must probe more deeply before he could answer her.

"And this palace--and all the palaces of this estate?" he asked slowly, as if he could not
comprehend her. "Thou wouldst renounce this splendor when none hath asked it of thee?"

"I would even bear the weight of it, if it be right," she said, "though rest were sweeter."

"Thou wouldst be free, perchance, to seek thy home in Venice?"

"Nay, nay!" she exclaimed, shrinking from him--"never Venice again--since she hath sent me
hither, knowing all, and told me not. I cannot go back to Venice!"

He pondered gravely.

"Then what is thy will, my daughter?"

"To do the right!" she cried vehemently; "out of my own great sorrow to expiate the wrong!
May it not be, my Father, if I shrink not from the right at any cost?"

"I will consider," he said, "since thy will is strong for this sacrifice."

"Sacrifice!" she cried, in her amazement breaking all reserve. "Oh, Father! To call this 'sacrifice,'
when the very light of life is gone from me! He was so beautiful and gracious--with such a
light in his eyes--and I thought--oh, I thought we were so happy! And now--oh, God, it breaks
my heart--I loved him!"

"Daughter----"

"May not the suffering of one atone for another's sin?" she questioned feverishly.

"Nay--leave that thought, it is too heavy for thee: and not revealed to men, that they may
declare it."

"Pray for him, Father! Thou wilt pray for him--thou and all those who come to thee. There will
be many, many prayers and God will hear. For his people loved him--none could stay from loving
him, he was so winsome. Mother of Mercies, thou wilt take my anguish for his atonement!--Oh
I suffer!"

The words came in a low moan, wrung from her unaware. Father Johannes caught the small hands
which she had flung out before her clenched, in her passionate struggle for control, and with
faltering motions of unaccustomed gentleness, he soothed her until she had grown quieter and
he could unclasp them. Then he spoke strange words, out of a great compassion:

"Christ knoweth; for He is Love--and He will save!"

"There is more," she gasped with her spent voice--"but I dare not name it--the thought of it
is torture. But it is not true; Madonna mia! it is not true!"

The strong man could bear no more; he groaned in spirit and ground his hands against his breast--his
lip curling with scorn at the pain of his own torn flesh. "Tell it!" he commanded; "it cannot
be true."

She looked at him, hope dawning in her stricken face. "The words they speak--they who are his
enemies--that he had forsworn his faith: it is not true."

"It is the very machination of the Evil One!" he thundered. "I know the slander and the man
who fathered it, for spite. And may Heaven forgive its maker--for he hath need--standing high
in the holy place of Earth. I know it is not true!"

He looked his faith into her eyes until he had banished her terror, and she put out her wan
hand, grateful, for his assurance.

Then he turned from her abruptly and wandered away to weigh her question, looking into the
depths of the great forest while he pondered and prayed to be enlightened. He must have sight
of his own solitudes if he would keep his judgment free, and though she called to him, timidly,
thinking he had forgotten her, he made no answer, being not yet ready. Surely, it could not
be God's will that so fine a spirit should resign her claim to their uneasy crown!

It was long before he returned to her side, for the shadows were lengthening and a crimson
light flamed in the West.

"Daughter," he said with deep solemnity, "it hath come to me with full light in answer to thy
question, that thou, being crowned Queen and consecrated in the Duomo of Nikosia, together
with King Janus, thy husband--whom this people loved--and decreed by him to hold this realm,
which--for the first time in many years, and by his hand, is now united under one sovereign,
that thy duty biddeth thee hold and rule it against all other claimants--were it even Carlotta
who hath once been called its Queen.

"Rule thou this people with the fear of Heaven in thy true heart--so God shall make thee wise!"

She came slowly, as to a heavy task, and knelt before him, with clasped hands, kissing the
crucifix which he held out to her; the red light streamed through the arches with a fierce
illumination.

"Father--and Janus!" she cried--"hear my vow!

"To do for my people as Heaven and the Madonna shall teach me: to bear them in my heart and
seek their happiness; to live for them alone! And if harm hath been--oh God, if harm hath been
done--to nerve me to the more strenuous duty, that wrong may be forgiven!"

XV

It was a moonless night in June, with lowering clouds and a threat of distant thunder echoing
from the far mountains.

A crowd was gathering, low-voiced and eager, in the Piazza San Nicolò: a crowd chiefly of the
people, and the faces and costumes of many races came out grotesquely under the spasmodic glare
of the torches which flared about the standard of Cyprus, in the centre of the square--the
standard was tied with mourning and wreathed with cypress. There were many women--here and
there a peasant with a child slumbering in her arms, or clinging sleepily to the tawny silk
scarf woven under her own mulberry trees. Here and there, with the fitful motion of the wind,
the light touched the fair hair of a chance peasant from the province of La Kythrea into gleams
of gold that a Venetian patrician might envy, or brought into sudden relief the smothered passion
of some beautiful, dark Greek face. But the women were chiefly of the lower Cypriote peasant-type,
heavy-featured and unemotional. There was a sprinkling of monkish cowls and of the red fez
from the Turkish village of Afdimou which lay in seeming friendliness of relation close to
the village of Ormodos, whose population was wholly Greek.

In front of the long façade of the palace of Famagosta a cordon of soldiers stood motionless,
while before them the mounted guard paced slowly to and fro; and across the Piazza, with that
impatient, surging crowd between, was faintly heard the steady footfall of the sentinels, measuring
and remeasuring with unemotional precision their narrow beat before the entrance to the world-famed
fortress of Famagosta.

A group of nobles in eager, low-voiced converse crossed the square, pressed through the cordon
of soldiers and gave the password and the great door was opened to admit them and closed again.

Two burghers picked out a face among them, as the torches of their escorts flared.

"That was Marin Rizzo, Counsellor to the Queen; a man of power--unscrupulous."

"And more a friend--I have heard it whispered in Nikosia--to Naples than to Cyprus."

"Hast evidence for thy speech?" the other questioned eagerly in a lower tone.

"It is for that we must watch; the time is threatening."

"But Messer Andrea Cornaro was with him: he will know how to guard the interests of the Queen,
having been so great a favorite with our Janus, and one for management, despite his courtly
ways! Without our Messer Andrea, his niece had never been our Queen."

"Nay--nor if His Holiness had had his will. I had the tale from a source to trust, though the
story was kept hushed. It would take one like our Janus, with his royal ways, to scorn the
flattering offers of His Holiness! There were also threats!"

"Nay; threats would never move him, except to see the comedy thereof and make his mood the
pleasanter! But I had not dreamed him saint enough for the Holy Father to sue to him for an
alliance."

"Ah, friend, the ways of those above us be strange! But it was for this, I take it, that His
Holiness--who hath a temper most uncommon earthly--sent none to represent him at the Coronation
of the King."

The other shrugged his shoulders. "It lacked for naught in splendor; it was a day for Cyprus
and for Nikosia."

"Vanitas Vanitatum," droned a friar of the Latin Church who had been standing near enough to
catch echoes of their speech.

Both men glanced towards him and instinctively moved away.

"Aye; little it matters now--coronation honors or splendors for him! But he had a way with him!"

"And he was one for daring!"

They crossed themselves and lapsed into silence, as their eyes sought the banners drooping,
shrouded, before the palace-gates, near the statue of their dead King--a very Apollo for beauty--the
pedestal heaped high with withered tokens of loyalty and mourning.

But the mass of the waiting crowd were silent, scarcely exchanging a whispered confidence;--so
still that the long, low boom of the surf upon the shore reached them distinctly, like a responsive
heart-throb. They could hear the storm-waves outside the port dashing wildly against the rock-bound
coast, with fierce suggestions of strife. But they knew that within their sheltered harbor
their waiting galleys rode at anchor, ready to sail at a moment's notice--for Venice, for Rome,
for Egypt--though the flags they bore were still at half-mast, with their King but a month dead.

There was a sense of suppressed excitement in the hush of the throng; almost, one might have
said, an atmosphere of prayer. For the great bell of San Nicolò--the bell with that wonderful
voice of melody--was ringing softly, as for vespers; continuously, as if the people had not
answered to the call. Yet many a low-voiced "Ave" responded to the chime as now and again some
toil-worn hand lifted the rosary that hung from a girdle, or clasped a rude cross closer.

Restless under the chiming, some simple mother who had fought for her place in the crowd before
the palace, deep in her heart besought the blessed Madonna to forgive her because she would
not yield it to kneel at the altar in the Duomo; while leaning over the little one slumbering
on her breast, she kissed it with a meaning holy as prayer, and did not dream that the angels
were watching.

The only steady light in all the square was the soft gleam, as of moonlight, streaming through
the windows of the Duomo out into the mist, and here and there among the crowd some face turned
towards it and was heartened.

For back of the splendid marble columns of the peristyle, when the light from some torch flashed
suddenly upon their polished surfaces, the long lines of palace-windows lay dark; and it was
growing late.

"They say that the holy sisters keep vigil this night in the Convent of the Blessed Santa Croce,"
murmured a woman's voice.

"Aye," another answered her reverently, "for the love of Santa Elenà and the Holy Relic, they
will bless our beautiful Lady!"

The theme unsealed their peasant tongues, for this relic brought from the East by the Mother
of Constantine, was the glory of Cyprus, and their speech flowed more freely.

"The most Reverend our Archbishop should send for that Santa Croce in procession, to bring
it hither--for truly it can do anything!" another woman cried eagerly. She crossed herself
and bowed devoutly as she spoke. "For all the world knoweth that once, when it had been lost
and the good pater would prove if he had really found it, he held it in the heart of the fire
until it glowed like the very flame itself. But when he drew it forth, it was burned not at
all--Santissima Vergine!--but wood as before--being too holy to burn. A miracle! And then----"

"I also know the miracle about Queen Alixe," another woman interposed, eager to show her knowledge
of the marvel of the Relic, "for my sister dwelleth by the gate of the Convent of the Troödos,
and she hath much learning of the most blessed Relic;--how that Queen Alixe laid the bit on
her tongue--she who could never speak fairly--more like a blockhead of a stammering peasant
than a Royal lady--may Heaven forgive me! And how for ever after, her speech flowed freely,
so that all might understand her. It must be good to be in Cyprus."

"Holy Mother! but it should be lonely in the great palace," a young peasant-mother confided
to her nearest neighbor, as she shifted the baby to her other arm and arranged her wrappings
tenderly, with hands that looked too rough for such loving ministration. She was thinking of
her Gioan who would be waiting for her with a gruff greeting when she returned, but who was
good to her, if he often scolded when the porridge was burned. But men were that way about
women's work, and never knew that an angel would forget when the baby cried. "But she was growing
heavy, blessed be the Madonna! Why wasn't there a light?--It would be good if one might sleep!"

A mounted messenger came out from the fort and dashed across the square; the crowd holding
breath, parting silently before him, but surging tumultuously back, to wait--though they were
very weary and the shifting clouds were dropping rain. But there were yet no lights in the
palace windows.

It was growing darker and the wind was rising; a quick flurry of drops extinguished some of
the torches, and in the greater gloom the voice of the wind wailed like an evil omen. But still
the women would not go--waiting for that sign of the light in the palace windows.

Only they pressed closer to each other and crossed themselves in terror, with smothered ejaculations
and adjurations, shuddering from the superstitions that enthralled their simple natures; for
at this season, in Cyprus rain was most unwonted, surely a sign of Heaven's displeasure! Still
they waited in the darkness of the night, with shivering hearts, with the wind growling like
angry fiends out beyond the harbor and down from the environing hills--upheld to this costly
tribute of devotion by the dumb, dog-like loyalty which their beautiful young Queen had roused
within them, by a smile on her wedding-day and the sorrow that had quenched it.

"It is good, va, to see the light in the Duomo! There is many a good candle burning for her
at the shrine of Our Lady of Mercy, this night."

"An' there were none for ourselves, we should find one for her!"

"Not a woman of our casal but held a candle in her hand as we came in at the gate of the city;
for the silkworms have given us silk and enough to spin this year; and if they had not, we
would not grudge it to her. For she hath a smile like an angel. May our Holy Mother bless her
for them both."

"And beautiful--beautiful so that it warms the heart! Dost thou remember the day when she came
out of the Duomo, beautiful as the Madonna herself--may our Blessed Lady in Heaven forgive
me!--with a necklace and a crown flashing fire, that our Holy Mother of Jesus might wear on
the Feast of the Annunciation?--and the smile on her face?--and the King beside her----? Ah,
but it was a wedding--Holy Saints!--and they ought to be happy--the great ones!"

"Hush then!--But surely 'tis a sin that they left the mourning upon the banner to-night, one
should have more respect! If I could get into the Duomo for a drop of Holy water--Sancta Maria!"

But the crowd had swelled to hopeless density, and both women threw out their hands with the
magical gesture that never failed to exorcise the evil spirits brought near by such an omen.
Then they touched each other reassuringly, and crossed themselves and were silent again.

For a beautiful Greek, not of their own class, stepped out from her group of attendants, and
knelt on the pavement, stretching out her hands towards the dark palace with a prayer--they
could hear her murmuring,--"For her sake--for the sake of the innocent one who hath been wronged--Holy
Mother of Angels, grant us one of her blood to rule this land!"

Her heavy veil of mourning fell aside as she hastily rose and joined her attendants, disappearing
in the crowd.

"Madama da Patras! Could it be Madama da Patras, mother to the King, kneeling on the pavement
in the night!"

"Her heart is broken with grief, and she thought not to be seen, poor lady."

Two nobles were wending their way with difficulty across the Piazza, they lingered a moment,
arrested by the words of the prayer.

"This night may make the difference between anarchy and peace for Cyprus," one of them said
to his companion, as they resumed their struggle.

"Aye--Cyprus for the Cypriotes,--instead of Genoa, or Venice, or Naples."

"Or Queen Carlotta?"

"Maledetto!--Who spoke?"

But the challenge was unanswered. The noble who had dared to name aloud the daughter of their
last Queen--the sister of their late King--had been lost in the darkness before the trusty
guard, sent from Venice, could make sure of him.

"The fellow should be thrust through for his insolence. A Cyprian master is good enough for
Cyprus," they confided to each other, as they made pause again, emerging from the crowd at
the other end of the piazza, before the gate of the fortress.

"What matters it?" his comrade answered him nonchalantly, "for canst thou tell me the color
of a Cypriote now? and his native tongue may be liker that of Spain or Venice than of France
or Greece. My Lord of Piscopia hath the color of Venice."

"But of the very household of our Queen:--speak soft! Our Queen?--Perchance this night may
be her undoing--how runs King Giacomo's will? Yea, for the matter of the fiefs, she hath been
royal with her gifts--a matter not so lordly when confiscation cometh thus easily."

"But she hath a royal way with her, as of one born to the throne, and for that matter it were
not strange for one of the house of Cornelii--they held their heads proudly enough in Venice,
I am told; and her mother was of the blood of a Comnenus--more royal than a Lusignan, if not
so well tempered."

"Aye; she is well enough."

"And she hath a grace that hath verily won the people; never was there such a crowd in the
time of any other Queen. See how they throng before her gates to-night--poor simple souls--conquered
by a smile that costeth naught."

"Nay; it is not strange; for the people entered little into the thought of Queen Carlotta,
or Queen Elenà. There is no harm in her; she is a good child, and beautiful enough to be a
saint; with too little understanding of the ways of our court: too great a saint for Janus--by
every blessed saint of Cyprus! But I had rather she had more earthliness and wile than be the
pawn of Venice. A Cyprian for the Cypriotes! Our Janus were better;--a Lusignan--not too much
a saint--not a child nor a woman neither--but masterful: less the pawn of Venice."

"As well of Venice with her fleets and commerce, as of Naples--if it be not a Cyprian. How
sayest thou? And it was King Janus himself who gave Pelendria--that most royal and bountiful
fief of a prince of Lusignan--into the hands of that parvenu of Naples, Rizzo! The King verily
guessed not his quality when he named him to such estate! He would outrule monarchs."

"Pace!"

Close to them, in the crowd, they heard the sound of a soldier's lance rasping the pavement
as he stood at rest. One not far off seemed to answer his signal.

The storm was growing fiercer; the sullen mutterings of the wind broke into a shriek, with
a terrible downpour of rain; but the rushing crowd was stayed by a cry of joy that rose above
the tumult--a cry of love from the heart of the people--

"Mater Beatissima! A light in the palace window!"

A candle flamed in a dark window--two--more--a light in every casement!

The gates of the palace were thrown wide and a splendid mounted corps rode forth amidst a flare
of torches--white plumes of rejoicing waving from their casques--white banners raised high
on the points of their lances--while the herald, in full armor with vizor up, bore proudly
before the people the silken banner with the arms of Cyprus blazoned upon it--the white, royal
banner of a Prince of Galilee.

The waiting people went wild with joy, for the bells of all the churches of Famagosta were
pealing a jubilee, and the night rang with shouts of homage for the Prince of Galilee, the
heir to the crown of Cyprus:

For an infant prince had just opened his unconscious eyes upon his troubled earthly heritage.

XVI

White banners of rejoicing floated from every stronghold and palace throughout Cyprus, to publish
the birth of the infant prince; but a hush had lain for many days over the city of Famagosta.

In the Cathedral of San Nicolò, the Archbishop of Nikosia, primate of all Cyprus, ministered
in solemn state among a throng of lesser dignitaries, priests, and acolytes. His sumptuous
robes of office, of cloth of gold broidered with costly pearls, flashed forth a marvellous
radiance from the light of countless candles bought with the precious copper bits of the peasants
who came from the provinces far and near. As they gathered about the steps of the altar they
carefully drew their dingy work-worn garments back, lest their touch should sully the splendid
Persian carpet spread for the Reverendissimo, little dreaming that the hint of sorrowing love
in their stolid faces robed them with nobility and turned their hard-earned copper carcie into
a golden gift.

In the many churches throughout the kingdom the humble people were kneeling, praying their
unlettered prayers for the beautiful young Queen, with the more faith that the Holy Mother
would listen because one so great as the Archbishop of Nikosia ministered in person before
their sacred image of San Nicolò. For had it not been the booty of a slaughtered Eastern city,
won by Peter the Valiant in most holy warfare of Crusade, which His Holiness of Rome would
fain have counted among the treasures of the One True Church within the Eternal City?

In the grim stone corridors of the impregnable fortress of Famagosta, a crowd of humble pilgrims
from the Troödos knelt, breathlessly fingering their rosaries, while the monks of the Holy
House upon the Mountain moved among the scattered groups, holding each one his Cross of Thorns,
and reciting his low "Ave," that the people might follow in hushed whispers.

But within the little Chapel of the Fortress, Hagios Johannes wrestled alone in prayer; it
leaped from his heart with groans and sobs that might not be restrained.

Surely the merciful Father in Heaven would leave this pure spirit to rule the distressed people
of Cyprus:--"Were they found too sinful to win so great a boon?--'Let the priests, the ministers
of the people, weep between the porch and the altar!'--My God, it is Thy word, spoken by Thy
prophet of old!" He pressed his hands against the crosses on his breast and shoulders, lashing
himself in a sort of frenzy from the passion of his thought, not knowing that his blood trickled
in slow drops upon the very steps of the altar--the blood of man, defiling the purity of that
slab of onyx brought from the Temple at Jerusalem by the first of the Kings of Lusignan.

The fortress, not the Palace of Famagosta, had been the birthplace of the little Prince of
Galilee; a wise precaution, possibly, in view of the diversities of sympathy to be found among
the nobles of Cyprus. In the innermost of the apartments set apart for the Royal use, a grave
assemblage of learned men had gathered--men of many races and tongues, of various schools of
science, diverse in doctrines and ideals--all, with the exception of Maestro Gentile, the court
physician, strangers to the patient whom they were called to treat in a critical moment. As
a matter of science the case had a certain value for them, which was not lessened by the fact
of the patient's quality; but to Maestro Gentile alone was the hopeless condition of the young
Queen a matter of deep personal concern. They came from France, from Greece, from the famous
University of Bologna; the Sultan of Egypt had sent a sage learned in all the lore of that
ancient civilization; and a wise Arab had brought to this consultation the secrets of every
herb that grew; while a holy man from Persia, steeped in the wisdom of the Zend Avestar and
in the doctrines of Zarathrustra, stood ready to use his mystic comfort in behalf of the sufferer.
The consultation had dragged its slow length through the hot August afternoon, while the strange
faces came and went about the couch where the young Queen lay moaning and tossing; the single
being under that roof who loved her as her own soul and would have given her life for hers,
was waiting alone in the great ante-chamber, listening for every footfall, every motion within--filling
each moment with an intensity of prayer.

The great men had barred her from the sick-room while they made their diagnosis, lest the intricacies
of the symptoms should declare themselves less positively in the presence of a nature without
learning in any method of their art. "There was fever," they said; "it would excite the patient
to have one of her own household so near her in this extremity; her strength must be carefully
treasured."

But all wore faces of gloom, speaking with hushed voices, as, one by one, they came forth from
the darkened chamber, yet with a sense of relief that all had been done that could be done
and the weakness might now be left to run its course, "For there is no hope," they said.

The Lady Beata had questioned each face silently; but when the last one passed, bringing the
same sense of doom, "Can nothing more be done?" she asked with clasped hands.

They shook their heads, gravely, with decorous looks of sympathy, repeating their short refrain,
like a knell.

"Then I will go to her," she answered, "that she may see a face of love when she passes," and
pushing them all aside, she resolutely entered the sick-chamber, signing to Maestro Gentile
to follow her; but the protest from the group of learned men was less than she had feared,
since the Queen was now so ill that nothing could cure or harm.

The fair young mother, fever flushed, with wandering eyes, lay tossing on the silken cushions
of her low couch--broken words feebly struggling from the parted lips in pathetic tones, "Madonna--I
am so tired--so tired--take me----"

There was no recognition in her eyes, as the Lady Beata leaned over her, startled at the words,
her soul wrung with sympathy.

"Why can they do nothing?" she asked in low authoritative tones of the physician.

"The will is gone," he answered sorrowfully; "she hath lost all desire of life; she will not
rally, being too weak for the effort, and having no consciousness to help herself."

There was a hunted, frightened look in Caterina's face; the words came again, more faintly--"tired--take
me----"

"She shall not die until she hath known this joy which Heaven hath sent her!" the Lady Beata
cried with conviction and a sudden sense of power. "We will save her--thou, Maestro Gentile--and
I--who love her. Give her only some potion for her strengthening, I beseech thee, caro Maestro;--life
is flickering--she must not die yet."

"There is no hope," he answered her again; but he gave the strengthening draught, for he could
not resist her imploring eyes.

The Lady Beata had been moving noiselessly, throwing wide the curtains; a faint, pitying evening
breeze stole into the chamber. She came now and knelt beside the couch.

"Bring the little Prince hither with all possible haste, from his chamber," she said without
lifting her eyes from Caterina's face. "We must rouse her!"

And now the Maestro went without further question, to do her bidding, although the child, and
all that belonged to him had been kept out of sight and sound of the invalid, through these
days of danger, lest an emotion should snap the slender thread of life.

"Bring none with thee," she said, "save only the peasant-nurse; for we must be alone."

Quite alone, with death so near, out of the marvellous great strength in her heart, the Lady
Beata laid her firm, cool touch on the restless hands, scarcely restraining them--yet the spasmodic
movements grew quieter; she smiled into her eyes, until the strain of the frightened gaze relaxed;
she folded her close in the arms of her deep tenderness and willed her back to life with the
strenuousness of a great purpose--for was there not the little wailing child to live for, to
give her sight of the love and happiness for which she was starving!

Closer and closer yet she folded her, with light caressing motions on hair and brow, calling
to her with all sweet names that deep-hearted women know, in tones so like a dream that they
caught the wandering consciousness and lighted it with a faint, far hope.

Time is not when such momentous issues are pending. Whether the moments passed into hours,
or whether each instant were so fraught with its intensity of hope and fear that every heart-throb
seemed an eternity, the yearning watchers never knew. Slowly--or was it swiftly?--Just as hope
was dying in despair--a breath of peace, like the wafting of the wings of some heavenly messenger,
stirred softly among them, dropping balm on the face of the sleeper.

They bent above her breathlessly; the pale eyelids fluttered and unclosed.

Her breath came gently and broke in a restful sigh; she lay quietly within the shielding arms
that had held her back from the dread abyss; the light of recognition was dawning in her eyes.

The Lady Beata trembled for joy; but she scarce dared move or speak; she kept her eyes fixed
on the dear, fragile face,--deep in her heart that ceaseless prayer for life.

Maestro Gentile was dumb with awe:--it was a miracle! He stood watching, intent to help--holding
his breath lest he should work some harm, while he kept guard over the nurse who held the sleeping
child; he was so completely under the spell of that wonder-working will that he needed scarce
a sign to work with her.

But the Lady Beata was no thaumaturgist; only a loving woman, standing where science had failed,
translating another's desperate need from her own depths of sympathy--arresting the oncoming
shadow because of her faith and her great love.

"Now!" she exclaimed under her breath.

She laid the infant on its mother's breast; its dainty breath came and went upon her face with
the fragrance of a violet. She uncurled a little crumpled, rose-leaf palm and pressed it close
upon the mother's cheek--never moving her gaze, with the will of life strong within it, from
the eyes in which recognition had dawned with a strange, sweet surprise. A smile was brooding
on lips and eyes. One baby-hand lay clasped in Caterina's--the wee pink fingers closed on hers
like the tendrils of a vine.

The Lady Beata's heart throbbed to breaking, but her voice came low and calm--stilled with
the passion of her gladness, as Caterina's eyes smiled into hers:

"It is thine own little son, who hath need of thy love:--God's wonderful gift of joy that only
mothers know!"

XVII

With whatever magnificence of pageantry the ceremonies of the Baptism and Coronation of the
infant Prince of Galilee were surrounded--and under the tutelage of Venice and the auspices
of Cyprus which aspired to the splendor of an Eastern Empire, there could be nothing lacking--there
were nobler aspects of that brilliant festival which those who witnessed never forgot.

