"Nor are these the only points in which our city is worthy of admiration. We cultivate refinement
without extravagance and knowledge without effeminacy; wealth we employ more for use than for
show, and place the real disgrace of poverty not in owning to the fact but in declining the
struggle against it. Our public men have, besides politics, their private affairs to attend
to, and our ordinary citizens, though occupied with the pursuits of industry, are still fair
judges of public matters; for, unlike any other nation, regarding him who takes no part in
these duties not as unambitious but as useless, we Athenians are able to judge at all events
if we cannot originate, and, instead of looking on discussion as a stumbling-block in the way
of action, we think it an indispensable preliminary to any wise action at all. Again, in our
enterprises we present the singular spectacle of daring and deliberation, each carried to its
highest point, and both united in the same persons; although usually decision is the fruit
of ignorance, hesitation of reflection. But the palm of courage will surely be adjudged most
justly to those, who best know the difference between hardship and pleasure and yet are never
tempted to shrink from danger. In generosity we are equally singular, acquiring our friends
by conferring, not by receiving, favours. Yet, of course, the doer of the favour is the firmer
friend of the two, in order by continued kindness to keep the recipient in his debt; while
the debtor feels less keenly from the very consciousness that the return he makes will be a
payment, not a free gift. And it is only the Athenians, who, fearless of consequences, confer
their benefits not from calculations of expediency, but in the confidence of liberality.

"In short, I say that as a city we are the school of Hellas, while I doubt if the world can
produce a man who, where he has only himself to depend upon, is equal to so many emergencies,
and graced by so happy a versatility, as the Athenian. And that this is no mere boast thrown
out for the occasion, but plain matter of fact, the power of the state acquired by these habits
proves. For Athens alone of her contemporaries is found when tested to be greater than her
reputation, and alone gives no occasion to her assailants to blush at the antagonist by whom
they have been worsted, or to her subjects to question her title by merit to rule. Rather,
the admiration of the present and succeeding ages will be ours, since we have not left our
power without witness, but have shown it by mighty proofs; and far from needing a Homer for
our panegyrist, or other of his craft whose verses might charm for the moment only for the
impression which they gave to melt at the touch of fact, we have forced every sea and land
to be the highway of our daring, and everywhere, whether for evil or for good, have left imperishable
monuments behind us. Such is the Athens for which these men, in the assertion of their resolve
not to lose her, nobly fought and died; and well may every one of their survivors be ready
to suffer in her cause.

"Turning to the sons or brothers of the dead, I see an arduous struggle before you. When a
man is gone, all are wont to praise him, and should your merit be ever so transcendent, you
will still find it difficult not merely to overtake, but even to approach their renown. The
living have envy to contend with, while those who are no longer in our path are honoured with
a goodwill into which rivalry does not enter. On the other hand, if I must say anything on
the subject of female excellence to those of you who will now be in widowhood, it will be all
comprised in this brief exhortation.

"My task is now finished. I have performed it to the best of my ability, and in word, at least,
the requirements of the law are now satisfied. If deeds be in question, those who are here
interred have received part of their honours already, and for the rest, their children will
be brought up till manhood at the public expense: the state thus offers a valuable prize, as
the garland of victory in this race of valour, for the reward both of those who have fallen
and their survivors. And where the rewards for merit are greatest, there are found the best
citizens.

"And now that you have brought to a close your lamentations for your relatives, you may depart."
In the first days of summer the Lacedaemonians and their allies, with two-thirds of their forces
as before, invaded Attica, under the command of Archidamus, son of Zeuxidamus, King of Lacedaemon,
and sat down and laid waste the country. Not many days after their arrival in Attica the plague
first began to show itself among the Athenians. It was said that it had broken out in many
places previously in the neighbourhood of Lemnos and elsewhere; but a pestilence of such extent
and mortality was nowhere remembered. Neither were the physicians at first of any service,
ignorant as they were of the proper way to treat it, but they died themselves the most thickly,
as they visited the sick most often; nor did any human art succeed any better. Supplications
in the temples, divinations, and so forth were found equally futile, till the overwhelming
nature of the disaster at last put a stop to them altogether.

It first began, it is said, in the parts of Ethiopia above Egypt, and thence descended into
Egypt and Libya and into most of the King's country. Suddenly falling upon Athens, it first
attacked the population in Piraeus--which was the occasion of their saying that the Peloponnesians
had poisoned the reservoirs, there being as yet no wells there--and afterwards appeared in
the upper city, when the deaths became much more frequent. All speculation as to its origin
and its causes, if causes can be found adequate to produce so great a disturbance, I leave
to other writers, whether lay or professional; for myself, I shall simply set down its nature,
and explain the symptoms by which perhaps it may be recognized by the student, if it should
ever break out again. This I can the better do, as I had the disease myself, and watched its
operation in the case of others.

That year then is admitted to have been otherwise unprecedentedly free from sickness; and such
few cases as occurred all determined in this. As a rule, however, there was no ostensible cause;
but people in good health were all of a sudden attacked by violent heats in the head, and redness
and inflammation in the eyes, the inward parts, such as the throat or tongue, becoming bloody
and emitting an unnatural and fetid breath. These symptoms were followed by sneezing and hoarseness,
after which the pain soon reached the chest, and produced a hard cough. When it fixed in the
stomach, it upset it; and discharges of bile of every kind named by physicians ensued, accompanied
by very great distress. In most cases also an ineffectual retching followed, producing violent
spasms, which in some cases ceased soon after, in others much later. Externally the body was
not very hot to the touch, nor pale in its appearance, but reddish, livid, and breaking out
into small pustules and ulcers. But internally it burned so that the patient could not bear
to have on him clothing or linen even of the very lightest description; or indeed to be otherwise
than stark naked. What they would have liked best would have been to throw themselves into
cold water; as indeed was done by some of the neglected sick, who plunged into the rain-tanks
in their agonies of unquenchable thirst; though it made no difference whether they drank little
or much. Besides this, the miserable feeling of not being able to rest or sleep never ceased
to torment them. The body meanwhile did not waste away so long as the distemper was at its
height, but held out to a marvel against its ravages; so that when they succumbed, as in most
cases, on the seventh or eighth day to the internal inflammation, they had still some strength
in them. But if they passed this stage, and the disease descended further into the bowels,
inducing a violent ulceration there accompanied by severe diarrhoea, this brought on a weakness
which was generally fatal. For the disorder first settled in the head, ran its course from
thence through the whole of the body, and, even where it did not prove mortal, it still left
its mark on the extremities; for it settled in the privy parts, the fingers and the toes, and
many escaped with the loss of these, some too with that of their eyes. Others again were seized
with an entire loss of memory on their first recovery, and did not know either themselves or
their friends.

But while the nature of the distemper was such as to baffle all description, and its attacks
almost too grievous for human nature to endure, it was still in the following circumstance
that its difference from all ordinary disorders was most clearly shown. All the birds and beasts
that prey upon human bodies, either abstained from touching them (though there were many lying
unburied), or died after tasting them. In proof of this, it was noticed that birds of this
kind actually disappeared; they were not about the bodies, or indeed to be seen at all. But
of course the effects which I have mentioned could best be studied in a domestic animal like
the dog.

Such then, if we pass over the varieties of particular cases which were many and peculiar,
were the general features of the distemper. Meanwhile the town enjoyed an immunity from all
the ordinary disorders; or if any case occurred, it ended in this. Some died in neglect, others
in the midst of every attention. No remedy was found that could be used as a specific; for
what did good in one case, did harm in another. Strong and weak constitutions proved equally
incapable of resistance, all alike being swept away, although dieted with the utmost precaution.
By far the most terrible feature in the malady was the dejection which ensued when any one
felt himself sickening, for the despair into which they instantly fell took away their power
of resistance, and left them a much easier prey to the disorder; besides which, there was the
awful spectacle of men dying like sheep, through having caught the infection in nursing each
other. This caused the greatest mortality. On the one hand, if they were afraid to visit each
other, they perished from neglect; indeed many houses were emptied of their inmates for want
of a nurse: on the other, if they ventured to do so, death was the consequence. This was especially
the case with such as made any pretensions to goodness: honour made them unsparing of themselves
in their attendance in their friends' houses, where even the members of the family were at
last worn out by the moans of the dying, and succumbed to the force of the disaster. Yet it
was with those who had recovered from the disease that the sick and the dying found most compassion.
These knew what it was from experience, and had now no fear for themselves; for the same man
was never attacked twice--never at least fatally. And such persons not only received the congratulations
of others, but themselves also, in the elation of the moment, half entertained the vain hope
that they were for the future safe from any disease whatsoever.

An aggravation of the existing calamity was the influx from the country into the city, and
this was especially felt by the new arrivals. As there were no houses to receive them, they
had to be lodged at the hot season of the year in stifling cabins, where the mortality raged
without restraint. The bodies of dying men lay one upon another, and half-dead creatures reeled
about the streets and gathered round all the fountains in their longing for water. The sacred
places also in which they had quartered themselves were full of corpses of persons that had
died there, just as they were; for as the disaster passed all bounds, men, not knowing what
was to become of them, became utterly careless of everything, whether sacred or profane. All
the burial rites before in use were entirely upset, and they buried the bodies as best they
could. Many from want of the proper appliances, through so many of their friends having died
already, had recourse to the most shameless sepultures: sometimes getting the start of those
who had raised a pile, they threw their own dead body upon the stranger's pyre and ignited
it; sometimes they tossed the corpse which they were carrying on the top of another that was
burning, and so went off.

Nor was this the only form of lawless extravagance which owed its origin to the plague. Men
now coolly ventured on what they had formerly done in a corner, and not just as they pleased,
seeing the rapid transitions produced by persons in prosperity suddenly dying and those who
before had nothing succeeding to their property. So they resolved to spend quickly and enjoy
themselves, regarding their lives and riches as alike things of a day. Perseverance in what
men called honour was popular with none, it was so uncertain whether they would be spared to
attain the object; but it was settled that present enjoyment, and all that contributed to it,
was both honourable and useful. Fear of gods or law of man there was none to restrain them.
As for the first, they judged it to be just the same whether they worshipped them or not, as
they saw all alike perishing; and for the last, no one expected to live to be brought to trial
for his offences, but each felt that a far severer sentence had been already passed upon them
all and hung ever over their heads, and before this fell it was only reasonable to enjoy life
a little.

Such was the nature of the calamity, and heavily did it weigh on the Athenians; death raging
within the city and devastation without. Among other things which they remembered in their
distress was, very naturally, the following verse which the old men said had long ago been uttered:

   A Dorian war shall come and with it death.

So a dispute arose as to whether dearth and not death had not been the word in the verse; but
at the present juncture, it was of course decided in favour of the latter; for the people made
their recollection fit in with their sufferings. I fancy, however, that if another Dorian war
should ever afterwards come upon us, and a dearth should happen to accompany it, the verse
will probably be read accordingly. The oracle also which had been given to the Lacedaemonians
was now remembered by those who knew of it. When the god was asked whether they should go to
war, he answered that if they put their might into it, victory would be theirs, and that he
would himself be with them. With this oracle events were supposed to tally. For the plague
broke out as soon as the Peloponnesians invaded Attica, and never entering Peloponnese (not
at least to an extent worth noticing), committed its worst ravages at Athens, and next to Athens,
at the most populous of the other towns. Such was the history of the plague.

After ravaging the plain, the Peloponnesians advanced into the Paralian region as far as Laurium,
where the Athenian silver mines are, and first laid waste the side looking towards Peloponnese,
next that which faces Euboea and Andros. But Pericles, who was still general, held the same
opinion as in the former invasion, and would not let the Athenians march out against them.

However, while they were still in the plain, and had not yet entered the Paralian land, he
had prepared an armament of a hundred ships for Peloponnese, and when all was ready put out
to sea. On board the ships he took four thousand Athenian heavy infantry, and three hundred
cavalry in horse transports, and then for the first time made out of old galleys; fifty Chian
and Lesbian vessels also joining in the expedition. When this Athenian armament put out to
sea, they left the Peloponnesians in Attica in the Paralian region. Arriving at Epidaurus in
Peloponnese they ravaged most of the territory, and even had hopes of taking the town by an
assault: in this however they were not successful. Putting out from Epidaurus, they laid waste
the territory of Troezen, Halieis, and Hermione, all towns on the coast of Peloponnese, and
thence sailing to Prasiai, a maritime town in Laconia, ravaged part of its territory, and took
and sacked the place itself; after which they returned home, but found the Peloponnesians gone
and no longer in Attica.

During the whole time that the Peloponnesians were in Attica and the Athenians on the expedition
in their ships, men kept dying of the plague both in the armament and in Athens. Indeed it
was actually asserted that the departure of the Peloponnesians was hastened by fear of the
disorder; as they heard from deserters that it was in the city, and also could see the burials
going on. Yet in this invasion they remained longer than in any other, and ravaged the whole
country, for they were about forty days in Attica.

The same summer Hagnon, son of Nicias, and Cleopompus, son of Clinias, the colleagues of Pericles,
took the armament of which he had lately made use, and went off upon an expedition against
the Chalcidians in the direction of Thrace and Potidaea, which was still under siege. As soon
as they arrived, they brought up their engines against Potidaea and tried every means of taking
it, but did not succeed either in capturing the city or in doing anything else worthy of their
preparations. For the plague attacked them here also, and committed such havoc as to cripple
them completely, even the previously healthy soldiers of the former expedition catching the
infection from Hagnon's troops; while Phormio and the sixteen hundred men whom he commanded
only escaped by being no longer in the neighbourhood of the Chalcidians. The end of it was
that Hagnon returned with his ships to Athens, having lost one thousand and fifty out of four
thousand heavy infantry in about forty days; though the soldiers stationed there before remained
in the country and carried on the siege of Potidaea.

After the second invasion of the Peloponnesians a change came over the spirit of the Athenians.
Their land had now been twice laid waste; and war and pestilence at once pressed heavy upon
them. They began to find fault with Pericles, as the author of the war and the cause of all
their misfortunes, and became eager to come to terms with Lacedaemon, and actually sent ambassadors
thither, who did not however succeed in their mission. Their despair was now complete and all
vented itself upon Pericles. When he saw them exasperated at the present turn of affairs and
acting exactly as he had anticipated, he called an assembly, being (it must be remembered)
still general, with the double object of restoring confidence and of leading them from these
angry feelings to a calmer and more hopeful state of mind. He accordingly came forward and
spoke as follows:

"I was not unprepared for the indignation of which I have been the object, as I know its causes;
and I have called an assembly for the purpose of reminding you upon certain points, and of
protesting against your being unreasonably irritated with me, or cowed by your sufferings.
I am of opinion that national greatness is more for the advantage of private citizens, than
any individual well-being coupled with public humiliation. A man may be personally ever so
well off, and yet if his country be ruined he must be ruined with it; whereas a flourishing
commonwealth always affords chances of salvation to unfortunate individuals. Since then a state
can support the misfortunes of private citizens, while they cannot support hers, it is surely
the duty of every one to be forward in her defence, and not like you to be so confounded with
your domestic afflictions as to give up all thoughts of the common safety, and to blame me
for having counselled war and yourselves for having voted it. And yet if you are angry with
me, it is with one who, as I believe, is second to no man either in knowledge of the proper
policy, or in the ability to expound it, and who is moreover not only a patriot but an honest
one. A man possessing that knowledge without that faculty of exposition might as well have
no idea at all on the matter: if he had both these gifts, but no love for his country, he would
be but a cold advocate for her interests; while were his patriotism not proof against bribery,
everything would go for a price. So that if you thought that I was even moderately distinguished
for these qualities when you took my advice and went to war, there is certainly no reason now
why I should be charged with having done wrong.

"For those of course who have a free choice in the matter and whose fortunes are not at stake,
war is the greatest of follies. But if the only choice was between submission with loss of
independence, and danger with the hope of preserving that independence, in such a case it is
he who will not accept the risk that deserves blame, not he who will. I am the same man and
do not alter, it is you who change, since in fact you took my advice while unhurt, and waited
for misfortune to repent of it; and the apparent error of my policy lies in the infirmity of
your resolution, since the suffering that it entails is being felt by every one among you,
while its advantage is still remote and obscure to all, and a great and sudden reverse having
befallen you, your mind is too much depressed to persevere in your resolves. For before what
is sudden, unexpected, and least within calculation, the spirit quails; and putting all else
aside, the plague has certainly been an emergency of this kind. Born, however, as you are,
citizens of a great state, and brought up, as you have been, with habits equal to your birth,
you should be ready to face the greatest disasters and still to keep unimpaired the lustre
of your name. For the judgment of mankind is as relentless to the weakness that falls short
of a recognized renown, as it is jealous of the arrogance that aspires higher than its due.
Cease then to grieve for your private afflictions, and address yourselves instead to the safety
of the commonwealth.

"If you shrink before the exertions which the war makes necessary, and fear that after all
they may not have a happy result, you know the reasons by which I have often demonstrated to
you the groundlessness of your apprehensions. If those are not enough, I will now reveal an
advantage arising from the greatness of your dominion, which I think has never yet suggested
itself to you, which I never mentioned in my previous speeches, and which has so bold a sound
that I should scarce adventure it now, were it not for the unnatural depression which I see
around me. You perhaps think that your empire extends only over your allies; I will declare
to you the truth. The visible field of action has two parts, land and sea. In the whole of
one of these you are completely supreme, not merely as far as you use it at present, but also
to what further extent you may think fit: in fine, your naval resources are such that your
vessels may go where they please, without the King or any other nation on earth being able
to stop them. So that although you may think it a great privation to lose the use of your land
and houses, still you must see that this power is something widely different; and instead of
fretting on their account, you should really regard them in the light of the gardens and other
accessories that embellish a great fortune, and as, in comparison, of little moment. You should
know too that liberty preserved by your efforts will easily recover for us what we have lost,
while, the knee once bowed, even what you have will pass from you. Your fathers receiving these
possessions not from others, but from themselves, did not let slip what their labour had acquired,
but delivered them safe to you; and in this respect at least you must prove yourselves their
equals, remembering that to lose what one has got is more disgraceful than to be balked in
getting, and you must confront your enemies not merely with spirit but with disdain. Confidence
indeed a blissful ignorance can impart, ay, even to a coward's breast, but disdain is the privilege
of those who, like us, have been assured by reflection of their superiority to their adversary.
And where the chances are the same, knowledge fortifies courage by the contempt which is its
consequence, its trust being placed, not in hope, which is the prop of the desperate, but in
a judgment grounded upon existing resources, whose anticipations are more to be depended upon.

"Again, your country has a right to your services in sustaining the glories of her position.
These are a common source of pride to you all, and you cannot decline the burdens of empire
and still expect to share its honours. You should remember also that what you are fighting
against is not merely slavery as an exchange for independence, but also loss of empire and
danger from the animosities incurred in its exercise. Besides, to recede is no longer possible,
if indeed any of you in the alarm of the moment has become enamoured of the honesty of such
an unambitious part. For what you hold is, to speak somewhat plainly, a tyranny; to take it
perhaps was wrong, but to let it go is unsafe. And men of these retiring views, making converts
of others, would quickly ruin a state; indeed the result would be the same if they could live
independent by themselves; for the retiring and unambitious are never secure without vigorous
protectors at their side; in fine, such qualities are useless to an imperial city, though they
may help a dependency to an unmolested servitude.

"But you must not be seduced by citizens like these or angry with me--who, if I voted for war,
only did as you did yourselves--in spite of the enemy having invaded your country and done
what you could be certain that he would do, if you refused to comply with his demands; and
although besides what we counted for, the plague has come upon us--the only point indeed at
which our calculation has been at fault. It is this, I know, that has had a large share in
making me more unpopular than I should otherwise have been--quite undeservedly, unless you
are also prepared to give me the credit of any success with which chance may present you. Besides,
the hand of heaven must be borne with resignation, that of the enemy with fortitude; this was
the old way at Athens, and do not you prevent it being so still. Remember, too, that if your
country has the greatest name in all the world, it is because she never bent before disaster;
because she has expended more life and effort in war than any other city, and has won for herself
a power greater than any hitherto known, the memory of which will descend to the latest posterity;
even if now, in obedience to the general law of decay, we should ever be forced to yield, still
it will be remembered that we held rule over more Hellenes than any other Hellenic state, that
we sustained the greatest wars against their united or separate powers, and inhabited a city
unrivalled by any other in resources or magnitude. These glories may incur the censure of the
slow and unambitious; but in the breast of energy they will awake emulation, and in those who
must remain without them an envious regret. Hatred and unpopularity at the moment have fallen
to the lot of all who have aspired to rule others; but where odium must be incurred, true wisdom
incurs it for the highest objects. Hatred also is short-lived; but that which makes the splendour
of the present and the glory of the future remains for ever unforgotten. Make your decision,
therefore, for glory then and honour now, and attain both objects by instant and zealous effort:
do not send heralds to Lacedaemon, and do not betray any sign of being oppressed by your present
sufferings, since they whose minds are least sensitive to calamity, and whose hands are most
quick to meet it, are the greatest men and the greatest communities."

Such were the arguments by which Pericles tried to cure the Athenians of their anger against
him and to divert their thoughts from their immediate afflictions. As a community he succeeded
in convincing them; they not only gave up all idea of sending to Lacedaemon, but applied themselves
with increased energy to the war; still as private individuals they could not help smarting
under their sufferings, the common people having been deprived of the little that they were
possessed, while the higher orders had lost fine properties with costly establishments and
buildings in the country, and, worst of all, had war instead of peace. In fact, the public
feeling against him did not subside until he had been fined. Not long afterwards, however,
according to the way of the multitude, they again elected him general and committed all their
affairs to his hands, having now become less sensitive to their private and domestic afflictions,
and understanding that he was the best man of all for the public necessities. For as long as
he was at the head of the state during the peace, he pursued a moderate and conservative policy;
and in his time its greatness was at its height. When the war broke out, here also he seems
to have rightly gauged the power of his country. He outlived its commencement two years and
six months, and the correctness of his previsions respecting it became better known by his
death. He told them to wait quietly, to pay attention to their marine, to attempt no new conquests,
and to expose the city to no hazards during the war, and doing this, promised them a favourable
result. What they did was the very contrary, allowing private ambitions and private interests,
in matters apparently quite foreign to the war, to lead them into projects unjust both to themselves
and to their allies--projects whose success would only conduce to the honour and advantage
of private persons, and whose failure entailed certain disaster on the country in the war.
The causes of this are not far to seek. Pericles indeed, by his rank, ability, and known integrity,
was enabled to exercise an independent control over the multitude--in short, to lead them instead
of being led by them; for as he never sought power by improper means, he was never compelled
to flatter them, but, on the contrary, enjoyed so high an estimation that he could afford to
anger them by contradiction. Whenever he saw them unseasonably and insolently elated, he would
with a word reduce them to alarm; on the other hand, if they fell victims to a panic, he could
at once restore them to confidence. In short, what was nominally a democracy became in his
hands government by the first citizen. With his successors it was different. More on a level
with one another, and each grasping at supremacy, they ended by committing even the conduct
of state affairs to the whims of the multitude. This, as might have been expected in a great
and sovereign state, produced a host of blunders, and amongst them the Sicilian expedition;
though this failed not so much through a miscalculation of the power of those against whom
it was sent, as through a fault in the senders in not taking the best measures afterwards to
assist those who had gone out, but choosing rather to occupy themselves with private cabals
for the leadership of the commons, by which they not only paralysed operations in the field,
but also first introduced civil discord at home. Yet after losing most of their fleet besides
other forces in Sicily, and with faction already dominant in the city, they could still for
three years make head against their original adversaries, joined not only by the Sicilians,
but also by their own allies nearly all in revolt, and at last by the King's son, Cyrus, who
furnished the funds for the Peloponnesian navy. Nor did they finally succumb till they fell
the victims of their own intestine disorders. So superfluously abundant were the resources
from which the genius of Pericles foresaw an easy triumph in the war over the unaided forces
of the Peloponnesians.

During the same summer the Lacedaemonians and their allies made an expedition with a hundred
ships against Zacynthus, an island lying off the coast of Elis, peopled by a colony of Achaeans
from Peloponnese, and in alliance with Athens. There were a thousand Lacedaemonian heavy infantry
on board, and Cnemus, a Spartan, as admiral. They made a descent from their ships, and ravaged
most of the country; but as the inhabitants would not submit, they sailed back home.

At the end of the same summer the Corinthian Aristeus, Aneristus, Nicolaus, and Stratodemus,
envoys from Lacedaemon, Timagoras, a Tegean, and a private individual named Pollis from Argos,
on their way to Asia to persuade the King to supply funds and join in the war, came to Sitalces,
son of Teres in Thrace, with the idea of inducing him, if possible, to forsake the alliance
of Athens and to march on Potidaea then besieged by an Athenian force, and also of getting
conveyed by his means to their destination across the Hellespont to Pharnabazus, who was to
send them up the country to the King. But there chanced to be with Sitalces some Athenian ambassadors--Learchus,
son of Callimachus, and Ameiniades, son of Philemon--who persuaded Sitalces' son, Sadocus,
the new Athenian citizen, to put the men into their hands and thus prevent their crossing over
to the King and doing their part to injure the country of his choice. He accordingly had them
seized, as they were travelling through Thrace to the vessel in which they were to cross the
Hellespont, by a party whom he had sent on with Learchus and Ameiniades, and gave orders for
their delivery to the Athenian ambassadors, by whom they were brought to Athens. On their arrival,
the Athenians, afraid that Aristeus, who had been notably the prime mover in the previous affairs
of Potidaea and their Thracian possessions, might live to do them still more mischief if he
escaped, slew them all the same day, without giving them a trial or hearing the defence which
they wished to offer, and cast their bodies into a pit; thinking themselves justified in using
in retaliation the same mode of warfare which the Lacedaemonians had begun, when they slew
and cast into pits all the Athenian and allied traders whom they caught on board the merchantmen
round Peloponnese. Indeed, at the outset of the war, the Lacedaemonians butchered as enemies
all whom they took on the sea, whether allies of Athens or neutrals.

About the same time towards the close of the summer, the Ambraciot forces, with a number of
barbarians that they had raised, marched against the Amphilochian Argos and the rest of that
country. The origin of their enmity against the Argives was this. This Argos and the rest of
Amphilochia were colonized by Amphilochus, son of Amphiaraus. Dissatisfied with the state of
affairs at home on his return thither after the Trojan War, he built this city in the Ambracian
Gulf, and named it Argos after his own country. This was the largest town in Amphilochia, and
its inhabitants the most powerful. Under the pressure of misfortune many generations afterwards,
they called in the Ambraciots, their neighbours on the Amphilochian border, to join their colony;
and it was by this union with the Ambraciots that they learnt their present Hellenic speech,
the rest of the Amphilochians being barbarians. After a time the Ambraciots expelled the Argives
and held the city themselves. Upon this the Amphilochians gave themselves over to the Acarnanians;
and the two together called the Athenians, who sent them Phormio as general and thirty ships;
upon whose arrival they took Argos by storm, and made slaves of the Ambraciots; and the Amphilochians
and Acarnanians inhabited the town in common. After this began the alliance between the Athenians
and Acarnanians. The enmity of the Ambraciots against the Argives thus commenced with the enslavement
of their citizens; and afterwards during the war they collected this armament among themselves
and the Chaonians, and other of the neighbouring barbarians. Arrived before Argos, they became
masters of the country; but not being successful in their attacks upon the town, returned home
and dispersed among their different peoples.

Such were the events of the summer. The ensuing winter the Athenians sent twenty ships round
Peloponnese, under the command of Phormio, who stationed himself at Naupactus and kept watch
against any one sailing in or out of Corinth and the Crissaean Gulf. Six others went to Caria
and Lycia under Melesander, to collect tribute in those parts, and also to prevent the Peloponnesian
privateers from taking up their station in those waters and molesting the passage of the merchantmen
from Phaselis and Phoenicia and the adjoining continent. However, Melesander, going up the
country into Lycia with a force of Athenians from the ships and the allies, was defeated and
killed in battle, with the loss of a number of his troops.

The same winter the Potidaeans at length found themselves no longer able to hold out against
their besiegers. The inroads of the Peloponnesians into Attica had not had the desired effect
of making the Athenians raise the siege. Provisions there were none left; and so far had distress
for food gone in Potidaea that, besides a number of other horrors, instances had even occurred
of the people having eaten one another. In this extremity they at last made proposals for capitulating
to the Athenian generals in command against them--Xenophon, son of Euripides, Hestiodorus,
son of Aristocleides, and Phanomachus, son of Callimachus. The generals accepted their proposals,
seeing the sufferings of the army in so exposed a position; besides which the state had already
spent two thousand talents upon the siege. The terms of the capitulation were as follows: a
free passage out for themselves, their children, wives and auxiliaries, with one garment apiece,
the women with two, and a fixed sum of money for their journey. Under this treaty they went
out to Chalcidice and other places, according as was their power. The Athenians, however, blamed
the generals for granting terms without instructions from home, being of opinion that the place
would have had to surrender at discretion. They afterwards sent settlers of their own to Potidaea,
and colonized it. Such were the events of the winter, and so ended the second year of this
war of which Thucydides was the historian. He had encamped his army and was about to lay waste
the country, when the Plataeans hastened to send envoys to him, and spoke as follows: "Archidamus
and Lacedaemonians, in invading the Plataean territory, you do what is wrong in itself, and
worthy neither of yourselves nor of the fathers who begot you. Pausanias, son of Cleombrotus,
your countryman, after freeing Hellas from the Medes with the help of those Hellenes who were
willing to undertake the risk of the battle fought near our city, offered sacrifice to Zeus
the Liberator in the marketplace of Plataea, and calling all the allies together restored to
the Plataeans their city and territory, and declared it independent and inviolate against aggression
or conquest. Should any such be attempted, the allies present were to help according to their
power. Your fathers rewarded us thus for the courage and patriotism that we displayed at that
perilous epoch; but you do just the contrary, coming with our bitterest enemies, the Thebans,
to enslave us. We appeal, therefore, to the gods to whom the oaths were then made, to the gods
of your ancestors, and lastly to those of our country, and call upon you to refrain from violating
our territory or transgressing the oaths, and to let us live independent, as Pausanias decreed."

The Plataeans had got thus far when they were cut short by Archidamus saying: "There is justice,
Plataeans, in what you say, if you act up to your words. According, to the grant of Pausanias,
continue to be independent yourselves, and join in freeing those of your fellow countrymen
who, after sharing in the perils of that period, joined in the oaths to you, and are now subject
to the Athenians; for it is to free them and the rest that all this provision and war has been
made. I could wish that you would share our labours and abide by the oaths yourselves; if this
is impossible, do what we have already required of you--remain neutral, enjoying your own;
join neither side, but receive both as friends, neither as allies for the war. With this we
shall be satisfied." Such were the words of Archidamus. The Plataeans, after hearing what he
had to say, went into the city and acquainted the people with what had passed, and presently
returned for answer that it was impossible for them to do what he proposed without consulting
the Athenians, with whom their children and wives now were; besides which they had their fears
for the town. After his departure, what was to prevent the Athenians from coming and taking
it out of their hands, or the Thebans, who would be included in the oaths, from taking advantage
of the proposed neutrality to make a second attempt to seize the city? Upon these points he
tried to reassure them by saying: "You have only to deliver over the city and houses to us
Lacedaemonians, to point out the boundaries of your land, the number of your fruit-trees, and
whatever else can be numerically stated, and yourselves to withdraw wherever you like as long
as the war shall last. When it is over we will restore to you whatever we received, and in
the interim hold it in trust and keep it in cultivation, paying you a sufficient allowance."

When they had heard what he had to say, they re-entered the city, and after consulting with
the people said that they wished first to acquaint the Athenians with this proposal, and in
the event of their approving to accede to it; in the meantime they asked him to grant them
a truce and not to lay waste their territory. He accordingly granted a truce for the number
of days requisite for the journey, and meanwhile abstained from ravaging their territory. The
Plataean envoys went to Athens, and consulted with the Athenians, and returned with the following
message to those in the city: "The Athenians say, Plataeans, that they never hitherto, since
we became their allies, on any occasion abandoned us to an enemy, nor will they now neglect
us, but will help us according to their ability; and they adjure you by the oaths which your
fathers swore, to keep the alliance unaltered."

On the delivery of this message by the envoys, the Plataeans resolved not to be unfaithful
to the Athenians but to endure, if it must be, seeing their lands laid waste and any other
trials that might come to them, and not to send out again, but to answer from the wall that
it was impossible for them to do as the Lacedaemonians proposed. As soon as he had received
this answer, King Archidamus proceeded first to make a solemn appeal to the gods and heroes
of the country in words following: "Ye gods and heroes of the Plataean territory, be my witnesses
that not as aggressors originally, nor until these had first departed from the common oath,
did we invade this land, in which our fathers offered you their prayers before defeating the
Medes, and which you made auspicious to the Hellenic arms; nor shall we be aggressors in the
measures to which we may now resort, since we have made many fair proposals but have not been
successful. Graciously accord that those who were the first to offend may be punished for it,
and that vengeance may be attained by those who would righteously inflict it."

After this appeal to the gods Archidamus put his army in motion. First he enclosed the town
with a palisade formed of the fruit-trees which they cut down, to prevent further egress from
Plataea; next they threw up a mound against the city, hoping that the largeness of the force
employed would ensure the speedy reduction of the place. They accordingly cut down timber from
Cithaeron, and built it up on either side, laying it like lattice-work to serve as a wall to
keep the mound from spreading abroad, and carried to it wood and stones and earth and whatever
other material might help to complete it. They continued to work at the mound for seventy days
and nights without intermission, being divided into relief parties to allow of some being employed
in carrying while others took sleep and refreshment; the Lacedaemonian officer attached to
each contingent keeping the men to the work. But the Plataeans, observing the progress of the
mound, constructed a wall of wood and fixed it upon that part of the city wall against which
the mound was being erected, and built up bricks inside it which they took from the neighbouring
houses. The timbers served to bind the building together, and to prevent its becoming weak
as it advanced in height; it had also a covering of skins and hides, which protected the woodwork
against the attacks of burning missiles and allowed the men to work in safety. Thus the wall
was raised to a great height, and the mound opposite made no less rapid progress. The Plataeans
also thought of another expedient; they pulled out part of the wall upon which the mound abutted,
and carried the earth into the city.

Discovering this the Peloponnesians twisted up clay in wattles of reed and threw it into the
breach formed in the mound, in order to give it consistency and prevent its being carried away
like the soil. Stopped in this way the Plataeans changed their mode of operation, and digging
a mine from the town calculated their way under the mound, and began to carry off its material
as before. This went on for a long while without the enemy outside finding it out, so that
for all they threw on the top their mound made no progress in proportion, being carried away
from beneath and constantly settling down in the vacuum. But the Plataeans, fearing that even
thus they might not be able to hold out against the superior numbers of the enemy, had yet
another invention. They stopped working at the large building in front of the mound, and starting
at either end of it inside from the old low wall, built a new one in the form of a crescent
running in towards the town; in order that in the event of the great wall being taken this
might remain, and the enemy have to throw up a fresh mound against it, and as they advanced
within might not only have their trouble over again, but also be exposed to missiles on their
flanks. While raising the mound the Peloponnesians also brought up engines against the city,
one of which was brought up upon the mound against the great building and shook down a good
piece of it, to the no small alarm of the Plataeans. Others were advanced against different
parts of the wall but were lassoed and broken by the Plataeans; who also hung up great beams
by long iron chains from either extremity of two poles laid on the wall and projecting over
it, and drew them up at an angle whenever any point was threatened by the engine, and loosing
their hold let the beam go with its chains slack, so that it fell with a run and snapped off
the nose of the battering ram.

After this the Peloponnesians, finding that their engines effected nothing, and that their
mound was met by the counterwork, concluded that their present means of offence were unequal
to the taking of the city, and prepared for its circumvallation. First, however, they determined
to try the effects of fire and see whether they could not, with the help of a wind, burn the
town, as it was not a large one; indeed they thought of every possible expedient by which the
place might be reduced without the expense of a blockade. They accordingly brought faggots
of brushwood and threw them from the mound, first into the space between it and the wall; and
this soon becoming full from the number of hands at work, they next heaped the faggots up as
far into the town as they could reach from the top, and then lighted the wood by setting fire
to it with sulphur and pitch. The consequence was a fire greater than any one had ever yet
seen produced by human agency, though it could not of course be compared to the spontaneous
conflagrations sometimes known to occur through the wind rubbing the branches of a mountain
forest together. And this fire was not only remarkable for its magnitude, but was also, at
the end of so many perils, within an ace of proving fatal to the Plataeans; a great part of
the town became entirely inaccessible, and had a wind blown upon it, in accordance with the
hopes of the enemy, nothing could have saved them. As it was, there is also a story of heavy
rain and thunder having come on by which the fire was put out and the danger averted.

Failing in this last attempt the Peloponnesians left a portion of their forces on the spot,
dismissing the rest, and built a wall of circumvallation round the town, dividing the ground
among the various cities present; a ditch being made within and without the lines, from which
they got their bricks. All being finished by about the rising of Arcturus, they left men enough
to man half the wall, the rest being manned by the Boeotians, and drawing off their army dispersed
to their several cities. The Plataeans had before sent off their wives and children and oldest
men and the mass of the non-combatants to Athens; so that the number of the besieged left in
the place comprised four hundred of their own citizens, eighty Athenians, and a hundred and
ten women to bake their bread. This was the sum total at the commencement of the siege, and
there was no one else within the walls, bond or free. Such were the arrangements made for the
blockade of Plataea.

