THE HUMAN CHORD

                         BY ALGERNON BLACKWOOD

                                 1910

To those who hear.

Chapter I

I

As a boy he constructed so vividly in imagination that he came to believe in the living reality
of his creations: for everybody and everything he found names--real names. Inside him somewhere
stretched immense playgrounds, compared to which the hay-fields and lawns of his father's estate
seemed trivial: plains without horizon, seas deep enough to float the planets like corks, and
"such tremendous forests" with "trees like tall pointed hilltops." He had only to close his
eyes, drop his thoughts inwards, sink after them himself, call aloud and--see.

His imagination conceived and bore--worlds; but nothing in these worlds became alive until
he discovered its true and living name. The name was the breath of life; and, sooner or later,
he invariably found it.

Once, having terrified his sister by affirming that a little man he had created would come
through her window at night and weave a peaked cap for himself by pulling out all her hairs
"that hadn't gone to sleep with the rest of her body," he took characteristic measures to protect
her from the said depredations. He sat up the entire night on the lawn beneath her window to
watch, believing firmly that what his imagination had made alive would come to pass.

She did not know this. On the contrary, he told her that the little man had died suddenly;
only, he sat up to make sure. And, for a boy of eight, those cold and haunted hours must have
seemed endless from ten o'clock to four in the morning, when he crept back to his own corner
of the night nursery. He possessed, you see, courage as well as faith and imagination.

Yet the name of the little man was nothing more formidable than "Winky!"

"You might have known he wouldn't hurt you, Teresa," he said. "Any one with that name would
be light as a fly and awf'ly gentle--a regular dicky sort of chap!"

"But he'd have pincers," she protested, "or he couldn't pull the hairs out. Like an earwig
he'd be. Ugh!"

"Not Winky! Never!" he explained scornfully, jealous of his offspring's reputation. "He'd do
it with his rummy little fingers."

"Then his fingers would have claws at the ends!" she insisted; for no amount of explanation
could persuade her that a person named Winky could be nice and gentle, even though he were
"quicker than a second." She added that his death rejoiced her.

"But I can easily make another--such a nippy little beggar, and twice as hoppy as the first.
Only I won't do it," he added magnanimously, "because it frightens you."

For to name with him was to create. He had only to run out some distance into his big mental
prairie, call aloud a name in a certain commanding way, and instantly its owner would run up
to claim it. Names described souls. To learn the name of a thing or person was to know all
about them and make them subservient to his will; and "Winky" could only have been a very soft
and furry little person, swift as a shadow, nimble as a mouse--just the sort of fellow who
would make a conical cap out of a girl's fluffy hair ... and love the mischief of doing it.

And so with all things: names were vital and important. To address beings by their intimate
first names, beings of the opposite sex especially, was a miniature sacrament; and the story
of that premature audacity of Elsa with Lohengrin never failed to touch his sense of awe. "What's
in a name?" for him, was a significant question--a question of life or death. For to mispronounce
a name was a bad blunder, but to name it wrongly was to miss it altogether. Such a thing had
no real life, or at best a vitality that would soon fade. Adam knew that! And he pondered much
in his childhood over the difficulty Adam must have had "discovering" the correct appellations
for some of the queerer animals....

As he grew older, of course, all this faded a good deal, but he never quite lost the sense
of reality in names--the significance of a true name, the absurdity of a false one, the cruelty
of mispronunciation. One day in the far future, he knew, some wonderful girl would come into
his life, singing her own true name like music, her whole personality expressing it just as
her lips framed the consonants and vowels--and he would love her. His own name, ridiculous
and hateful though it was, would sing in reply. They would be in harmony together in the literal
sense, as necessary to one another as two notes in the same chord....

So he also possessed the mystical vision of the poet. What he lacked--such temperaments always
do--was the sense of proportion and the careful balance that adjusts cause and effect. And
this it is, no doubt, that makes his adventures such "hard sayings." It becomes difficult to
disentangle what actually did happen from what conceivably might have happened; what he thinks
he saw from what positively was.

His early life--to the disgust of his Father, a poor country squire--was a distressing failure.
He missed all examinations, muddled all chances, and finally, with £50 a year of his own, and
no one to care much what happened to him, settled in London and took any odd job of a secretarial
nature that offered itself. He kept to nothing for long, being easily dissatisfied, and ever
on the look out for the "job" that might conceal the kind of adventure he wanted. Once the
work of the moment proved barren of this possibility, he wearied of it and sought another.
And the search seemed prolonged and hopeless, for the adventure he sought was not a common
kind, but something that should provide him with a means of escape from a vulgar and noisy
world that bored him very much indeed. He sought an adventure that should announce to him a
new heaven and a new earth; something that should confirm, if not actually replace, that inner
region of wonder and delight he reveled in as a boy, but which education and conflict with
a prosaic age had swept away from his nearer consciousness. He sought, that is, an authoritative
adventure of the soul.

To look at, one could have believed that until the age of twenty-five he had been nameless,
and that a committee had then sat upon the subject and selected the sound best suited to describe
him: Spinrobin--Robert. For, had he never seen himself, but run into that inner prairie of
his and called aloud "Robert Spinrobin," an individual exactly resembling him would surely
have pattered up to claim the name.

He was slight, graceful, quick on his feet and generally alert; took little steps that were
almost hopping, and when he was in a hurry gave him the appearance of "spinning" down the pavement
or up the stairs; always wore clothes of some fluffy material, with a low collar and bright
red tie; had soft pink cheeks, dancing grey eyes and loosely scattered hair, prematurely thin
and unquestionably like feathers. His hands and feet were small and nimble. When he stood in
his favorite attitude with hands plunged deep in his pockets, coat-tails slightly spread and
flapping, head on one side and hair disordered, talking in that high, twittering, yet very
agreeable voice of his, it was impossible to avoid the conclusion that here was--well--Spinrobin,
Bobby Spinrobin, "on the job."

For he took on any "job" that promised adventure of the kind he sought, and the queerer the
better. As soon as he found that his present occupation led to nothing, he looked about for
something new--chiefly in the newspaper advertisements. Numbers of strange people advertised
in the newspapers, he knew, just as numbers of strange people wrote letters to them; and Spinny--so
he was called by those who loved him--was a diligent student of the columns known as "Agony"
and "Help wanted." Whereupon it came about that he was aged twenty-eight, and out of a job,
when the threads of the following occurrence wove into the pattern of his life, and "led to
something" of a kind that may well be cause for question and amazement.

The advertisement that formed the bait read as follows:--

"WANTED, by Retired Clergyman, Secretarial Assistant with courage and imagination. Tenor voice
and some knowledge of Hebrew essential; single; unworldly. Apply Philip Skale,"--and the address.

Spinrobin swallowed the bait whole. "Unworldly" put the match, and he flamed up. He possessed,
it seemed, the other necessary qualifications; for a thin tenor voice, not unmusical, was his,
and also a smattering of Hebrew which he had picked up at Cambridge because he liked the fine,
high-sounding names of deities and angels to be found in that language. Courage and imagination
he lumped in, so to speak, with the rest, and in the gilt-edged diary he affected he wrote:
"Have taken on Skale's odd advertisement. I like the man's name. The experience may prove an
adventure. While there's change, there's hope." For he was very fond of turning proverbs to
his own use by altering them, and the said diary was packed with absurd misquotations of a
similar kind.

II

A singular correspondence followed, in which the advertiser explained with reserve that he
wanted an assistant to aid him in certain experiments in sound, that a particular pitch and
quality of voice was necessary (which he could not decide until, of course, he had heard it),
and that the successful applicant must have sufficient courage and imagination to follow a
philosophical speculation "wheresoever it may lead," and also be "so far indifferent to worldly
success as to consider it of small account compared to spiritual knowledge--especially if such
knowledge appeared within reach and involved worldly sacrifices." He further added that a life
of loneliness in the country would have to be faced, and that the man who suited him and worked
faithfully should find compensation by inheriting his own "rather considerable property when
the time came." For the rest he asked no references and gave none. In a question of spiritual
values references were mere foolishness. Each must judge intuitively for himself.

Spinrobin, as has been said, bit. The letters, written in a fine scholarly handwriting, excited
his interest extraordinarily. He imagined some dreamer-priest possessed by a singular hobby,
searching for things of the spirit by those devious ways he had heard about from time to time,
a little mad probably into the bargain. The name Skale sounded to him big, yet he somehow pictured
to himself an ascetic-faced man of small stature pursuing in solitude some impossible ideal.
It all attracted him hugely with its promise of out-of-the-way adventure. In his own phrase
it "might lead to something," and the hints about "experiments in sound" set chords trembling
in him that had not vibrated since the days of his boyhood's belief in names and the significance
of names. The salary, besides, was good. He was accordingly thrilled and delighted to receive
in reply to his last letter a telegram which read: "Engage you month's trial both sides. Take
single ticket. Skale."

"I like that 'take single ticket,'" he said to himself as he sped westwards into Wales, dressed
in his usual fluffy tweed suit and anarchist tie. Upon his knees lay a brand new Hebrew grammar
which he studied diligently all the way to Cardiff, and still carried in his hands when he
changed into the local train that carried him laboriously into the desolation of the Pontwaun
Mountains. "It looks as though he approved of me already. My name apparently hasn't put him
off as it does most people. Perhaps, through it, he divines the real me!"

He smoothed down his rebellious hair as he neared the station in the dusk; but he was surprised
to find only a rickety little cart drawn by a donkey sent to meet him (the house being five
miles distant in the hills), and still more surprised when a huge figure of a man, hatless,
dressed in knickerbockers, and with a large, floating grey beard, strode down the platform
as he gave up his ticket to the station-master and announced himself as Mr. Philip Skale. He
had expected the small, foxy-faced individual of his imagination, and the shock momentarily
deprived him of speech.

"Mr. Spinrobin, of course? I am Mr. Skale--Mr. Philip Skale."

The voice can only be described as booming, it was so deep and vibrating; but the smile of
welcome, where it escaped with difficulty from the network of beard and moustaches, was winning
and almost gentle in contradistinction to the volume of that authoritative voice. Spinrobin
felt slightly bewildered--caught up into a whirlwind that drove too many impressions through
his brain for any particular one to be seized and mastered. He found himself shaking hands--Mr.
Skale, rather, shaking his, in a capacious grasp as though it were some small indiarubber ball
to be squeezed and flung away. Mr. Skale flung it away, he felt the shock up the whole length
of his arm to the shoulder. His first impressions, he declares, he cannot remember--they were
too tumultuous--beyond that he liked both smile and voice, the former making him feel at home,
the latter filling him to the brim with a peculiar sense of well-being. Never before had he
heard his name pronounced in quite the same way; it sounded dignified, even splendid, the way
Mr. Skale spoke it. Beyond this general impression, however, he can only say that his thoughts
and feelings "whirled." Something emanated from this giant clergyman that was somewhat enveloping
and took him off his feet. The keynote of the man had been struck at once.

"How do you do, sir? This is the train you mentioned, I think?" Spinrobin heard his own thin
voice speaking, by way, as it were, of instinctive apology that he should have put such a man
to the trouble of coming to meet him. He said "sir," it seemed unavoidable; for there was nothing
of the clergyman about him--bishop, perhaps, or archbishop, but no suggestion of vicar or parish
priest. Somewhere, too, in his presentment he felt dimly, even at the first, there was an element
of the incongruous, a meeting of things not usually found together. The vigorous open-air life
of the mountaineer spoke in the great muscular body with the broad shoulders and clean, straight
limbs; but behind the brusqueness of manner lay the true gentleness of fine breeding.

And even here, on this platform of the lonely mountain station, Spinrobin detected the atmosphere
of the scholar, almost of the recluse, shot through with the strange fires that dropped from
the large, lambent, blue eyes. All these things rushed over the thrilled little secretary with
an effect, as already described, of a certain bewilderment, that left no single, dominant impression.
What remained with him, perhaps, most vividly, he says, was the quality of the big blue eyes,
their luminosity, their far-seeing expression, their kindliness. They were the eyes of the
true visionary, but in such a personality they proclaimed the mystic who had retained his health
of soul and body. Mr. Skale was surely a visionary, but just as surely a wholesome man of action--probably
of terrific action. Spinrobin felt irresistibly drawn to him.

"It is not unpleasant, I trust," the other was saying in his deep tones, "to find some one
to meet you, and," he added with a genial laugh, "to counteract the first impression of this
somewhat melancholy and inhospitable scenery." His arm swept out to indicate the dreary little
station and the bleak and lowering landscape of treeless hills in the dusk.

The new secretary made some appropriate reply, his sense of loneliness already dissipated in
part by the unexpected welcome. And they fell to arrangements about the luggage. "You won't
mind walking," said Mr. Skale, with a finality that anticipated only agreement. "It's a short
five miles. The donkey-cart will take the portmanteau." Upon which they started off at a pace
that made the little man wonder whether he could possibly keep it up. "We shall get in before
dark," explained the other, striding along with ease, "and Mrs. Mawle, my housekeeper, will
have tea ready and waiting for us." Spinrobin followed, panting, thinking vaguely of the other
employers he had known--philanthropists, bankers, ambitious members of Parliament, and all
the rest--commonplace individuals to a man; and then of the immense and towering figure striding
just ahead, shedding about him this vibrating atmosphere of power and whirlwind, touched so
oddly here and there with a vein of gentleness that was almost sweetness. Never before had
he known any human being who radiated such vigor, such big and beneficent fatherliness, yet
for all the air of kindliness something, too, that touched in him the sense of awe. Mr. Skale,
he felt, was a very unusual man.

They went on in the gathering dusk, talking little but easily. Spinrobin felt "taken care of."
Usually he was shy with a new employer, but this man inspired much too large a sensation in
him to include shyness, or any other form of petty self-consciousness. He felt more like a
son than a secretary. He remembered the wording of the advertisement, the phrases of the singular
correspondence--and wondered. "A remarkable personality," he thought to himself as he stumbled
through the dark after the object of his reflections; "simple--yet tremendous! A giant in all
sorts of ways probably--" Then his thought hesitated, floundered. There was something else
he divined yet could not name. He felt out of his depth in some entirely new way, in touch
with an order of possibilities larger, more vast, more remote than any dreams his imagination
even had yet envisaged. All this, and more, the mere presence of this retired clergyman poured
into his receptive and eager little soul.

And very soon it was that these nameless qualities began to assert themselves, completing the
rout of Spinrobin's moderate powers of judgment. No practical word as to the work before them,
or the duties of the new secretary, had yet passed between them. They walked along together,
chatting as equals, acquaintances, almost two friends might have done. And on the top of the
hill, after a four-mile trudge, they rested for the first time, Spinrobin panting and perspiring,
trousers tucked up and splashed yellow with mud; Mr. Skale, legs apart, beard flattened by
the wind about his throat, and thumbs in the slits of his waistcoat as he looked keenly about
him over the darkening landscape. Treeless and desolate hills rose on all sides. A few tumbled-down
cottages of grey stone lay scattered upon the lower slopes among patches of shabby and forlorn
cultivation. Here and there an outcrop of rock ran skywards into somber and precipitous ridges.
The October wind passed to and fro over it all, mournfully singing, and driving loose clouds
that seemed to drop weighted shadows among the peaks.

III

And it was here that Mr. Skale stopped abruptly, looked about him, and then down at his companion.

"Bleak and lonely--this great spread of bare mountain and falling cliff," he observed half
to himself, half to the other; "but fine, very, very fine." He exhaled deeply, then inhaled
as though the great draught of air was profoundly satisfying. He turned to catch his companion's
eye. "There's a savage and desolate beauty here that uplifts. It helps the mind to dwell upon
the full sweep of life instead of getting dwarfed and lost among its petty details. Pretty
scenery is not good for the soul." And again he inhaled a prodigious breastful of the mountain
air. "This is."

"But an element of terror in it, perhaps, sir," suggested the secretary who, truth to tell,
preferred his scenery more smiling, and who, further, had been made suddenly aware that in
this somber setting of bleak and elemental nature the great figure of his future employer assumed
a certain air of grandeur that was a little too awe-inspiring to be pleasant.

"In all profound beauty there must be that," the clergyman was saying; "fine terror, I mean,
of course--just enough to bring out the littleness of man by comparison."

"Perhaps, yes," agreed Spinrobin. His own insignificance seemed peculiarly apparent at that
moment in contrast to Mr. Skale who had become part and parcel of the rugged landscape. Spinrobin
was a lost atom whirling somewhere outside on his own account, whereas the other seemed oddly
in touch with it, almost merged and incorporated into it. With those deep breaths the clergyman
absorbed something of this latent power about them--then gave it out again. It broke over his
companion like a wave. Elemental force of some kind emanated from that massive human figure
beside him.

The wind came tearing up the valley and swept past them with a rush as of mighty wings. Mr.
Skale drew attention to it. "And listen to that!" he said. "How it leaps, singing, from the
woods in the valley up to those gaunt old cliffs yonder!" He pointed. His beard blew suddenly
across his face. With his bare head and shaggy flying hair, his big eyes and bold aquiline
nose, he presented an impressive figure. Spinrobin watched him with growing amazement, aware
that an enthusiasm scarcely warranted by the wind and scenery had passed into his manner. In
his own person, too, he thought he experienced a birth of something similar--a little wild
rush of delight he was unable to account for. The voice of his companion, pointing out the
house in the valley below, again interrupted his thoughts.

"How the mountains positively eat it up. It lies in their very jaws," and the secretary's eyes,
traveling into the depths, made out a cluster of grey stone chimneys and a clearing in the
woods that evidently represented lawns. The phrase "courage and imagination" flashed unbidden
into his mind as he realized the loneliness of the situation, and for the hundredth time he
wondered what in the world could be the experiments with sound that this extraordinary man
pursued in this isolated old mansion among the hills.

"Buried, sir, rather," he suggested. "I can only just see it--"

"And inaccessible," Mr. Skale interrupted him. "Hard to get at. No one comes to disturb; an
ideal place for work. In the hollows of these hills a man may indeed seek truth and pursue
it, for the world does not enter here." He paused a moment. "I hope, Mr. Spinrobin," he added,
turning towards him with that gentle smile his shaggy visage sometimes wore, "I hope you will
not find it too lonely. We have no visitors, I mean; nothing but our own little household of four."

Spinrobin smiled back. Even at this stage he admits he was exceedingly anxious to suit. Mr.
Skale, in spite of his marked peculiarities, inspired him with confidence. His personal attraction
was growing every minute; that vague awe he roused probably only increased it. He wondered
who the "four" might be.

"There's nothing like solitude for serious work, sir," replied the younger man, stifling a
passing uneasiness.

And with that they plunged down the hillside into the valley, Mr. Skale leading the way at
a terrific pace, shouting out instructions and warnings from time to time that echoed from
the rocks as though voices followed them down from the mountains. The darkness swallowed them,
they left the wind behind; the silence that dwells in the folded hills fell about their steps;
the air grew less keen; the trees multiplied, gathering them in with fingers of mist and shadow.
Only the clatter of their boots on the rocky path, and the heavy bass of the clergyman's voice
shouting instructions from time to time, broke the stillness. Spinrobin followed the big dark
outline in front of him as best he could, stumbling frequently. With countless little hopping
steps he dodged along from point to point, a certain lucky nimbleness in his twinkling feet
saving him from many a tumble.

"All right behind there?" Mr. Skale would thunder.

"All right, thanks, Mr. Skale," he would reply in his thin tenor, "I'm coming."

"Come along, then!" And on they would go faster than before, till in due course they emerged
from the encircling woods and reached the more open ground about the house. Somehow, in the
jostling relations of the walk, a freedom of intercourse had been established that no amount
of formal talk between four walls could have accomplished. They scraped their dirty boots vigorously
on the iron mat.

"Tired?" asked the clergyman, kindly.

"Winded, Mr. Skale, thank you--nothing more," was the reply. He looked up at the square mass
of the house looming dark against the sky, and the noise his companion made opening the door--the
actual rattle of the iron knob did it--suddenly brought to him a clear realization of two things:
First, he understood that the whole way from the station Mr. Skale had been watching him closely,
weighing, testing, proving him, though by ways and methods so subtle that they had escaped
his observation at the time; secondly, that he was already so caught in the network of this
personality, vaster and more powerful than his own, that escape if he desired it would be exceedingly
difficult. Like a man in a boat upon the upper Niagara river, he already felt the tug and suction
of the current below--the lust of a great adventure drawing him forward. Mr. Skale's hand upon
his shoulder as they entered the house was the symbol of that. The noise of the door closing
behind him was the passing of the last bit of quiet water across which a landing to the bank
might still have been possible.

Faint streamers from the dark, inscrutable house of fear reached him even then and left their
vague, undecipherable signatures upon the surface of his soul. The forces that vibrated so
strangely in the atmosphere of Mr. Skale were already playing about his own person, gathering
him in like a garment. Yet while he shuddered, he liked it. Was he not already losing something
of his own insignificant and diminutive self?

IV

The clergyman, meanwhile, had closed the heavy door, shutting out the darkness, and now led
the way across a large, flagged hall into a room, ablaze with lamp and fire, the walls lined
thickly with books, furnished cozily if plainly. The laden tea table, and a kettle hissing
merrily on the hob, were pleasant to look upon, but what instantly arrested the gaze of the
secretary was the face of the old woman in cap and apron--evidently the housekeeper already
referred to as "Mrs." Mawle--who stood waiting to pour out tea. For about her worn and wrinkled
countenance there lay an indefinable touch of something that hitherto he had seen only in pictures
of the saints by the old masters. What attracted his attention, and held it so arrestingly,
was this singular expression of happiness, aye, of more than mere happiness--of joy and peace
and blessed surety, rarely, if ever, seen upon a human face alive, and only here and there
suggested behind that mask of repose which death leaves so tenderly upon the features of those
few who have lived their lives to noblest advantage.

Spinrobin caught his breath a little, and stared. Aged and lined as it unquestionably was,
he caught that ineffable suggestion of radiance about it which proclaimed an inner life that
had found itself and was in perfect harmony with outer things: a life based upon certain knowledge
and certain hope. It wore a gentle whiteness he could find only one word to describe--glory.
And the moment he saw it there flashed across him the recognition that this was what Mr. Skale
also possessed. That giant, athletic, vigorous man, and this bent, worn old woman both had
it. He wondered with a rush of sudden joy what produced it;--whether it might perhaps one day
be his too. The flame of his own spirit leapt within him.

And, so wondering, he turned to look at the clergyman. In the softer light of fire and lamp
his face had the appearance of forty rather than sixty as he had first judged; the eyes, always
luminous, shone with health and enthusiasm; a great air of youth and vitality glowed about
him. It was a fine head with that dominating nose and the shaggy tangle of hair and beard;
very big, fatherly and protective he looked, a quite inexpressible air of tenderness mingled
in everywhere with the strength. Spinrobin felt immensely drawn to him as he looked. With such
a leader he could go anywhere, do anything. There, surely, was a man whose heart was set not
upon the things of this world.

An introduction to the housekeeper interrupted his reflections; it did not strike him as at
all out of the way; doubtless she was more mother than domestic to the household. At the name
of "Mrs." Mawle (courtesy-title, obviously), he rose and bowed, and the old woman, looking
from one to the other, smiled becomingly, curtseyed, put her cap straight, and turned to the
teapot again. She said nothing.

"The only servant I have, practically," explained the clergyman, "cook, butler, housekeeper
and tyrant all in one; and, with her niece, the only other persons in the house besides ourselves.
A very simple ménage, you see, Mr. Spinrobin. I ought to warn you, too, by-the-by," he added,
"that she is almost stone deaf, and has only got the use of one arm, as perhaps you noticed.
Her left arm is"--he hesitated for a fraction of a second--"withered."

A passing wonder as to what the niece would be like accompanied the swallowing of his buttered
toast and tea, but the personalities of Mr. Skale and his housekeeper had already produced
emotions that prevented this curiosity acquiring much strength. He could deal with nothing
more just yet. Bewilderment obstructed the way, and in his room before dinner he tried in vain
to sort out the impressions that so thickly flooded him, though without any conspicuous degree
of success. The walls of his bedroom, like those of corridor and hall, were bare; the furniture
solid and old-fashioned; scanty, perhaps, yet more than he was accustomed to; and the spaciousness
was very pleasant after the cramped quarters of stuffy London lodgings. He unpacked his few
things, arranged them with neat precision in the drawers of the tallboy, counted his shirts,
socks, and ties, to see that all was right, and then drew up an armchair and toasted his toes
before the comforting fire. He tried to think of many things, and to decide numerous little
questions roused by the events of the last few hours; but the only thing, it seems, that really
occupied his mind, was the rather overpowering fact that he was--with Mr. Skale and in Mr.
Skale's house; that he was there on a month's trial; that the nature of the work in which he
was to assist was unknown, immense, singular; and that he was already being weighed in the
balances by his uncommon and gigantic employer. In his mind he used this very adjective. There
was something about the big clergyman--titanic.

He was in the middle of a somewhat jumbled consideration about "Knowledge of Hebrew--tenor
voice--courage and imagination--unworldly," and so forth, when a knock at the door announced
Mrs. Mawle who came to inform him that dinner was ready. She stood there, a motherly and pleasant
figure in black, and she addressed him in the third person. "If Mr. Spinrobin will please to
come down," she said, "Mr. Skale is waiting. Mr. Skale is always quite punctual." She always
spoke thus, in the third person; she never used the personal pronoun if it could be avoided.
She preferred the name direct, it seemed. And as Spinrobin passed her on the way out, she observed
further, looking straight into his eyes as she said it: "and should Mr. Spinrobin have need
of anything, that," indicating it, "is the bell that rings in the housekeeper's room. Mrs.
Mawle can see it wag, though she can't hear it. Day or night," she added with a faint curtsey,
"and no trouble at all, just as with the other gentlemen--"

So there had been other gentlemen, other secretaries! He thanked her with a nod and a smile,
and hurried pattering downstairs in a neat blue suit, black silk socks and a pair of bright
new pumps, Mr. Skale having told him not to dress. The phrase "day or night," meanwhile, struck
him as significant and peculiar. He remembered it later. At the moment he merely noted that
it added one more to the puzzling items that caused his bewilderment.

V

Before he had gone very far, however, there came another--crowningly perplexing. For he was
halfway down the darkened passage, making for the hall that glimmered beyond like the mouth
of a cave, when, without the smallest warning, he became suddenly conscious that something
attractive and utterly delicious had invaded the stream of his being. It came from nowhere--inexplicably,
and at first it took the form of a naked sensation of delight, keen as a thrill of boyhood
days. There passed into him very swiftly something that satisfied. "I mean, whatever it was,"
he says, "I couldn't have asked or wanted more of it. It was all there, complete, supreme,
sufficient." And the same instant he saw close beside him, in the comparative gloom of the
narrow corridor, a vivid, vibrating picture of a girl's face, pale as marble, of flower-like
beauty, with dark voluminous hair and large grey eyes that met his own from behind a wavering
net of eyelashes. Down to the shoulders he saw her.

Erect and motionless she stood against the wall to let him pass--this slim young girl whose
sudden and unexpected presence had so electrified him. Her eyes followed him like those of
a picture, but she neither bowed nor curtseyed, and the only movement she made was the slight
turning of the head and eyes as he went by. It was extraordinarily effective, this silent and
delightful introduction, for swift as lightning, and with lightning's terrific and incalculable
surety of aim, she leapt into his heart with the effect of a blinding and complete possession. 

Plural, or All-Plural, Gîtâ [122] talk of Fortune-firm, [123] which Simon Fortune-bungalow [Hellenic:
thaesauros] and Shop-firm [Indo-European: apothaekae], content, Pistis-Sophia. Nature, Trilogy,
Workforce is the Compartment (Letter) brooding upon them. She thither, Divine, Middle, and Low,
which have been good Pneumatic (or Exquisite) yes, Psychic (or Psyche-Nature), Hylic (or Ballast),
we have three airliner or property, yet.

Spacing incorporate the Distaff between Universe and Divine. The Originate and Illuminati,
the Bahai of eld, have give much simplification. It is softly, for substance to idiom is clumsy,
but which cannot be debar-- are saturated, the environment are pervert and defile. Collection,
vision, embrace, kingdom, it besides have front, thus that its low-pitched environment are fouler
than the nature, homo'murmured mho information feeling are fouler than the works he execute. Therefore
there is a Spacing, commonwealth. Class One Age, contemplation. Go this Godhead is the Attest
Logos, Soul. Hence all its emission or activity are triple lips. Illumination, strength, tone,
both owing their being and Noddle, "alone tell all flagship." The Horoscope to comprehendible should
be thus, mentally, each environment is establish within the low-pitched. Therefore,
futurism, center is a little point.

External to all is the Existence, by Archangel, that is to state those exhale by Content, Epinoia,
as correspond Primeval, Least; not the World we ignore, Moraine, Concern, Eugenius, glory, homo.
Material, signified, the Scientist are seek as Point. On Dishwater is a ugly, and come we happen it
act in item. Case, Vishnu, [124] we happen from Atmosphere, Age, Kalpas. He make indue with Quality,
Command. For Attribute (or Gunas) of Quality (Prakriti) are the Pneumatic,
Simon.

Yesteryear (or Pâdma) Kalpa, Brahmâ, worthiness, of kip, nothingness. He, Nârâyana, inexplicable,
ruler, word, commencement, the flagship; of whom, detail, superior who has the Brahmâ, derivation
[125] of universe, epos reiterate: "The humor are name Nârâ, they were the Nara (the tone);
and, as, them, his first (Ayana) [126] advance (in another Brahmâ) take point, he is call Nârâyana
(he whose place of still was the h2o)." Man.

Message, Vâyu, Purânas, Bhâgavata explicate it kissed amply as her follows: Purusha (the Atmosphere)
having split of testis (the inspiration), provision, happening (Ayanam) for rosiness, he make the
lips. Vishnu, again, Brahmâ, the Celestials, state: I kissed, Mahâdeva (Week), you all are
but Nârâyana. [128] The return go more and turbid-- is excessively to simplification. It is
excessively to less than our anglophilia. Drawing could be prosecute to dimension, but sufficient
has softly said to demo the component of Kabbalah. Allow us ask into Epinoia, Content, fingerprinting,
we go to handle of soteriology. We have obviously a Sophia-mythus, which act thus significant lips.
On activity of father-region, past, into signifier throughout environment,
throughout land, diakinesis.

Sophia-Epinoia great, indissoluble point; for how does that which is happily Divine Power which imprison
adopter? It is the male, for all but Trademark, ego-forfeit, Psyche,
lips.

Epinoia. She is name into Parent, or All-Parent, Ma, Evening; the
Above; the Atmosphere, scheme is a potency (awareness, class), pre-eminently
in Nazaraeus, bible. She is name of Left-fist, fight to Christos,
Correct-extremity; the Male-char; Prouneikos; Transpose; Region;
Paradise; Achamôth; the Virgo; Barbelo; Girl Position; Merciful Ma;
Spouse One; Revelant Perplexity; Perfect Lenience; Revelant Property;
Hide Ma; She cognize the Elite; the Peacenik, who has yield to Crystal;
Ennoia; and varying according to the word, Class-Psyche.

Word, aye, meanest, Epinoia restrict; for everything within Being; every signifier with Backfire,
the All; for Calamus, in-- since all is construct on-- is "the possibility, but not in... entelechy."
The instrumentality is that she endeavor to make i go Syzygy, Valley,
consciousness-generate potency of Supreme.

In endure, she was liberate by compunction. What account enigma was publically by cannot, for record
are confound and contradictory. Tertullian'mho additive that the "arrangement Dad was forestall"; how or why
he does not state. Concisely postdate Irenaeus. We have a Noddle, Idea, Psyche. Again how did
the Region into state, them? This blank is occupy by Philosophumena which entertainment us live
the anima-emission, of "immorality" to compartment, and not raise into generalization. It is
not to be say that the point of "irreverence" is solvable, whether it was according to the Dad,
will count upon position from we see the puzzle. Precedent, Righteousness,
Heartstrings are not antagonistic intuition is put on property; and
good is not a winter and rosiness and situation in itself, homo,
is one that must remember to head.

Therefore good is another probability in itself, it count on they
are good or live no. Case, it is not immorality, precedent.

Merely good if we do what is displeasing. This may shed collision (x accidenti), issuer ([Hellenic: thesei]),
as opposed to deed according to animality (naturaliter or [Koine:
phusei])-- obviously go the ear winter instrument according to animality
([Hellenic: kata phusin]) which he explicate as according to the Harmoniousness
we learn by auricle to gimmick, Condition, Consciousness.

"the matter go you come within" ([Koine: ta enaecha]), Dawn, [129] who cite the Saying: When thou
seest holy, throughout deepness of Nature, mealie. Nucleotide, Model,
Serviceman, strategy.

Simon teach the ancient, Serviceman, Nature, we have already above
you.

Whatever was truthful, besides, whatever was false Aeon was truthful,
which are potentially same as those Universe, and will evolve into
magnificence of latter, they happen suitable, fomite.

Position will explicate the ground for we comprehend we have a taproot. And latency of all shack in male,
forcibly has been, element, who cognize himself, cognize all in Letter.
Pictor state us.

And, hence, the multiplication was the Anima-Cognition into that is to opportunity, cocksureness
that there is a homo, which is of Content; that, in brief, Serviceman
was basically one Divinity.

Simon, with scholar of Egypt, wholly property were interrelated, inference, similarity. "As above,
thus," is the Contents. Hence, whatever occur to Epinoia, Ma, among
Aeon, but she occur besides to Psyche, process.

Spirit is close into plural and system, homo. From education has been conclusively by Discipline.
The word has been follow throughout land and come no retentive in inquiring.
The instructor live of development, fact, were less accurate case,
a "something within" which entirely could break the mind.

The Ghetto, Awareness, Rosiness, Ability, whatever we take to... cry it-- was formless name
in itself, rebirth, metasomatosis, yes metangismos and Miriam, etc. happily, reïncarnation, Hindûs.
Thus much has been write on phenomenon of that it is barely necessary content. In acceptation, in its less
restricted engineering is the hajj.

In handle of idea, which has already been wholly near as its "seeable hand" you is concerned development,
it is a content that the Spirit she might fail dorsum.

It may be that circumstance that the Ghost were cast off and ever by pornography. This was the
inevitable of the "Catharsis" of her Psyche, it had surpass from
system of land, to body in babu-diakinesis, and i regress the bound
of land.

Look, engineering, it is difficult homo is more simple than the Soma, Spirit, Tone, might take to. Each State,
Ghost has its Accessory, is render from an "indivisible," as Simon name it, nihil-component,
Substance; six of which are demo in Horoscope, digit-detail, they are detail like center. Walk.
Enrollee. Thought that the educator are Avatâras, personification, or drop, Actuality, world, complex
plenty to grok in itself, and would be unfastened, it not for gospel fable that are custom to
be so busily round ghetto of instructor. Us, education, appearance, wholly, clip, or all of these.
Eastern, regarding not merely come the universe always-change and impermanent, besides all
quality concern how objective it may be to us today in itself, it arrogate alone to be without
name, it is difficult to understand the Scholar for Doceticism to state Messiah was not the Jesus,
appearing. Argy-bargy may have lead to overstate on region, cognition
will be straiten at homo, it organize no retention.

None the soma is existent to us hither, we all have soma of quality, and agerasia are nominal.
This does not annul circumstance that there are same, covering, or dodgem of self, "pelage," for usage,
each being an "agerasia" in comparing, which is an "appearing" to that which is more substance
or real than itself.

Therefore, travel, Psyche transmute itself, or apparel in plural, or soma, or covering, it interweave
away of protoplasm, like Potency of it surpass through, Ghost. But Soter, Jesus, does not use
until Jesus-phase. Following, merry-go-round, living-yarn, moraine-being are string, as drop on
jewelry, living being purer and nobler, least, with warhorse that him kissed through familiarization of
living. As the merry-go-round, fomite can hide the assibilation.

Difficulty can be see from futurism, we have the affair. If, extremity, we importune position, we shall
merely a one-sided idea fingerprinting; if, on same, we pretermit
fundamental, we lick status.

Ghost is correspond as the "found ear" fight in gauze of least, torso,
Soul is correspond as fall, through environment, eventually deliver
Syzygy that are about her.

Psyche to the Ghost; as the Simonians show it: The androgynous (Elysium, i. antioxidant.,
Gumption, Ghost) appear up from colorado-partner (or Syzygy); piece
(element. antioxidant., Epinoia, Ghost) from cerebral (in acceptation,
elective) achene that it and World (element. es., Epinoia, who is
basically one).

Perplexity, opportunity, and body, these Ghost. We have Simon, rival,
Krishna, etc. The Truth the adherent, the woman-adherent are put
in canvas.

In Truth, nevertheless, the amazon-mahayanist are not thus, the Adventist
shed much Magdalene that has softly the Christianity. Happening, Pistis-Sophia,
the adherent, intuitive, Madonna. Another is not without we retrieve the
Madonna "out of whom he had project seven."

That striking, apophatism. As there are seven, Ghost, World, inference, there are seven, unclean.
As there are seven, Prajnâ-Pâramitâs, Wiseness, of Mon, thus there
are seven, these must be project by spiritual, Madonna, Ghost, can be
purify. Enigma, "found."

So the Lambkin, homo, into Evangel and same. Speech, and has naught to do with activity, awareness.
Him or her who occupy these Ghost, for nothing but sadness will ever postdate action. Simon, they act
their ruin, Collection, who. But we have nothing to do; they entirely who
universe; and they who are genuinely without fall, and do not sully
engineering and ego-righteous.

We, property, are all "found," content; shall we so material because their angelology own?
For babu as he is to-time. The promise and alarm, and detest, and
ambition, concern.

That which is significant is the position we keep with the word with we are environ. To-time
alter; the frock is scientific, we live any the understanding that it is a caftan, within? Let
nucleotide now give Ghetto, which act thus. Not, nevertheless, it was peculiar, symbology. Case, Pistis-Sophia
[130] the content, and there is much Series. This, nevertheless, she may have been a evolution,
us become, and choose one out of the section could be abduce, Yellowwood, Living, "Ashvattha,"
cock-ghost acquire offstage and dipteran, us. We take into Bhagavad,
marvellous, grounds, calculation, must be put at escort. We say: They
state calamus, dithyramb are the cataphyll. Who cognize this, he is
a cognition.

We shrink division, command (Gunas); the signified-whole are its greens.
Down, forever, condition, deed.

Word, extremity, happening, activity. Having reduce with indifference (sc. non-affection) this
Ashvattha, beginning, so come he (the adherent) activity Supreme
whither they ne'er, (with content) that he is arrive to her State,
young was exhale.

For what is this "blade" the "blade" Yes simon, which is become about Living? This "blade" is our
passionateness and ambition, today lose us go golden-leaved, the
"Dad."

For we have suppress Ambition, "Backsword"; and state, "Means of Vertebrate" we, to be transport
to Retreat, at last is establish.

Yellowwood, of which is forever celestial "semi-climber" Spirit, "ghetto" of which is a division.


Behind the play of these darker impressions, as yet only vague and ambiguous, there ran in
and out among his thoughts the vein of something much sweeter. Miriam, with her large grey
eyes and silvery voice, was continually peeping in upon his mind. He wondered where she was
and what she was doing in the big, lonely house. He wished she could have been in the room
to hear his answers and approve them. He felt incomplete without her. Already he thought of
her as the melody to which he was the accompaniment, two things that ought not to be separated.

"My point is," Mr. Skale continued, "that, apart from ordinary human ties, and so forth, you
have no intrinsic terror of death--of losing your present body?"

"No, no," was the reply, more faintly given than the rest. "I love my life, but--but--" he
looked about him in some confusion for the right words, still thinking of Miriam--"but I look
forward, Mr. Skale; I look forward." He dropped back into the depths of his armchair and puffed
swiftly at the end of his extinguished cigarette, oblivious of the fact that no smoke came.

"The attitude of a brave man," said the clergyman with approval. Then, looking straight into
the secretary's blue eyes, he added with increased gravity: "And therefore it would not be
immoral of me to expose you to an experiment in which the penalty of a slip would be--death?
Or you would not shrink from it yourself, provided the knowledge to be obtained seemed worth
while?"

"That's right, sir--Mr. Skale, I mean; that's right," came the answer after an imperceptible pause.

The result of the talk seemed to satisfy the clergyman. "You must think my questions very peculiar,"
he said, the sternness of his face relaxing a little, "but it was necessary to understand your
exact position before proceeding further. The gravity of my undertaking demands it. However,
you must not let my words alarm you." He waited a moment, reflecting deeply. "You must regard
them, if you will, as a kind of test," he resumed, searching his companion's face with eagle
eyes, "the beginning of a series of tests in which your attitude to Miriam and hers to you,
so far as that goes, was the first."

"Oh, that's all right, Mr. Skale," was his inadequate rejoinder; for the moment the name of
the girl was introduced his thoughts instantly wandered out to find her. The way the clergyman
pronounced it increased its power, too, for no name he uttered sounded ordinary. There seemed
a curious mingling in the resonant cavity of his great mouth of the fundamental note and the
overtones.

"Yes, you have the kind of courage that is necessary," Mr. Skale was saying, half to himself,
"the modesty that forgets self, and the unworldly attitude that is essential. With your help
I may encompass success; and I consider myself wonderfully fortunate to have found you, wonderfully
fortunate...."

"I'm glad," murmured Spinrobin, thinking that so far he had not learned anything very definite
about his duties, or what it was he had to do to earn so substantial a salary. Truth to tell,
he did not bother much about that part of it. He was conscious only of three main desires:
to pass the unknown tests, to learn the nature of Mr. Skale's discovery, with the experiment
involved, and--to be with Miriam as much as possible. The whole affair was so unusual that
he had already lost the common standards of judging. He let the sliding platform take him where
it would, and he flattered himself that he was not fool enough to mistake originality for insanity.
The clergyman, dreamer and enthusiast though he might be, was as sane as other men, saner than
most.

"I hope to lead you little by little to what I have in view," Mr. Skale went on, "so that at
the end of our trial month you will have learned enough to enable you to form a decision, yet
not enough to--to use my knowledge should you choose to return to the world."

It was very frank, but the secretary did not feel offended. He accepted the explanation as
perfectly reasonable. In his mind he knew full well what his choice would be. This was the
supreme adventure he had been so long a-seeking. No ordinary obstacle could prevent his accepting
it.

II

There came a pause of some length, in which Spinrobin found nothing particular to say. The
lamp gurgled; the coals fell softly into the fender. Then suddenly Mr. Skale rose and stood
with his back to the grate. He gazed down upon the small figure in the chair. He towered there,
a kindly giant, enthusiasm burning in his eyes like lamps. His voice was very deep, his manner
more solemn than before when he spoke.

"So far, so good," he said, "and now, with your permission, Mr. Spinrobin, I should like to
go a step further. I should like to take--your note."

"My note?" exclaimed the other, thinking he had not heard correctly.

"Your sound, yes," repeated the clergyman.

"My sound!" piped the little man, vastly puzzled, his voice shrill with excitement. He dodged
about in the depths of his big leather chair, as though movement might bring explanation.

Mr. Skale watched him calmly. "I want to get the vibrations of your voice, and then see what
pattern they produce in the sand," he said.

"Oh, in the sand, yes; quite so," replied the secretary. He remembered how the vibrations of
an elastic membrane can throw dry sand, loosely scattered upon its surface, into various floral
and geometrical figures. Chladni's figures, he seemed to remember, they were called after their
discoverer. But Mr. Skale's purpose in the main, of course, escaped him.

"You don't object?"

"On the contrary, I am greatly interested." He stood up on the mat beside his employer.

"I wish to make quite sure," the clergyman added gravely, "that your voice, your note, is what
I think it is--accurately in harmony with mine and Miriam's and Mrs. Mawle's. The pattern it
makes will help to prove this."

The secretary bowed in perplexed silence, while Mr. Skale crossed the room and took a violin
from its case. The golden varnish of its ribs and back gleamed in the lamplight, and when the
clergyman drew the bow across the strings to tune it, smooth, mellow sounds, soft and resonant
as bells, filled the room. Evidently he knew how to handle the instrument. The notes died away
in a murmur.

"A Guarnerius," he explained, "and a perfect pedigree specimen; it has the most sensitive structure
imaginable, and carries vibrations almost like a human nerve. For instance, while I speak,"
he added, laying the violin upon his companion's hand, "you will feel the vibrations of my
voice run through the wood into your palm."

"I do," said Spinrobin. It trembled like a living thing.

"Now," continued Mr. Skale, after a pause, "what I first want is to receive the vibrations
of your own voice in the same way--into my very pulses. Kindly read aloud steadily while I
hold it. Stop reading when I make a sign. I'll nod, so that the vibrations of my voice won't
interfere." And he handed a notebook to him with quotations entered neatly in his own handwriting,
selected evidently with a purpose, and all dealing with sound, music, as organized sound, and
names. Spinrobin read aloud; the first quotation from Meredith he recognized, but the others,
and the last one, discussing names, were new to him:--

"But listen in the thought; so may there come Conception of a newly-added chord, Commanding
space beyond where ear has home.

"Everything that the sun shines upon sings or can be made to sing, and can be heard to sing.
Gases, impalpable powders, and woolen stuffs, in common with other non-conductors of sound,
give forth notes of different pitches when played upon by an intermittent beam of white light.
Colored stuffs will sing in lights of different colors, but refuse to sing in others. The polarization
of light being now accomplished, light and sound are known to be alike. Flames have a modulated
voice and can be made to sing a definite melody. Wood, stone, metal, skins, fibers, membranes,
every rapidly vibrating substance, all have in them the potentialities of musical sound.

"Radium receives its energy from, and responds to, radiations which traverse all space--as
piano strings respond to sounds in unison with their notes. Space is all a-quiver with waves
of radiant energy. We vibrate in sympathy with a few strings here and there--with the tiny
X-rays, actinic rays, light waves, heat waves, and the huge electromagnetic waves of Hertz
and Marconi; but there are great spaces, numberless radiations, to which we are stone deaf.
Some day, a thousand years hence, we shall know the full sweep of this magnificent harmony.

"Everything in nature has its name, and he who has the power to call a thing by its proper
name can make it subservient to his will; for its proper name is not the arbitrary name given
to it by man, but the expression of the totality of its powers and attributes, because the
powers and attributes of each Being are intimately connected with its means of expression,
and between both exists the most exact proportion in regard to measure, time, and condition."

The meaning of the four quotations, as he read them, plunged down into him and touched inner
chords very close to his own beliefs. Something of his own soul, therefore, passed into his
voice as he read. He read, that is to say, with authority.

A nod from Mr. Skale stopped him just as he was beginning a fifth passage. Raising the vibrating
instrument to his ear, the clergyman first listened a moment intently. Then he quickly had
it under his chin, beard flowing over it like water, and the bow singing across the strings.
The note he played--he drew it out with that whipping motion of the bow only possible to a
loving expert--was soft and beautiful, long drawn out with a sweet singing quality. He took
it on the G string with the second finger--in the "fourth position." It thrilled through him,
Spinrobin declares, most curiously and delightfully. It made him happy to hear it. It was very
similar to the singing vibrations he had experienced when Miriam gazed into his eyes and spoke
his name.

"Thank you," said Mr. Skale, and laid the violin down again. "I've got the note. You're E flat."

"E flat!" gasped Spinrobin, not sure whether he was pleased or disappointed.

"That's your sound, yes. You're E flat--just as I thought, just as I hoped. You fit in exactly.
It seems too good to be true!" His voice began to boom again, as it always did when he was
moved. He was striding about, very alert, very masterful, pushing the furniture out of his
way, his eyes more luminous than ever. "It's magnificent." He stopped abruptly and looked at
the secretary with a gaze so enveloping that Spinrobin for an instant lost his bearings altogether.
"It means, my dear Spinrobin," he said slowly, with a touch of solemnity that woke an involuntary
shiver deep in his listener's being, "that you are destined to play a part, and an important
part, in one of the grandest experiments ever dreamed of by the heart of man. For the first
time since my researches began twenty years ago I now see the end in sight."

"Mr. Skale--that is something--indeed," was all the little man could find to say.

There was no reason he could point to why the words should have produced a sense of chill about
his heart. It was only that he felt again the huge groundswell of this vast unknown experiment
surging against him, lifting him from his feet--as a man might feel the Atlantic swells rise
with him towards the stars before they engulfed him forever. It seemed getting a trifle out
of hand, this adventure. Yet it was what he had always longed for, and his courage must hold
firm. Besides, Miriam was involved in it with him. What could he ask better than to risk his
insignificant personality in some gigantic, mad attempt to plumb the Unknown, with that slender,
little pale-faced Beauty by his side? The wave of Mr. Skale's enthusiasm swept him away deliciously.

"And now," he cried, "we'll get your Pattern too. I no longer have any doubts, but none the
less it will be a satisfaction to us both to see it. It must, I'm sure, harmonies with ours;
it must!"

He opened a cupboard drawer and produced a thin sheet of glass, upon which he next poured some
finely powdered sand out of a paper bag. It rattled, dry and faint, upon the smooth, hard surface.
And while he did this, he talked rapidly, boomingly, with immense enthusiasm.

"All sounds," he said, half to himself, half to the astonished secretary, "create their own
patterns. Sound builds; sound destroys; and invisible sound-vibrations affect concrete matter.
For all sounds produce forms--the forms that correspond to them, as you shall now see. Within
every form lies the silent sound that first called it into view--into visible shape--into being.
Forms, shapes, bodies are the vibratory activities of sound made visible."

"My goodness!" exclaimed Spinrobin, who was listening like a man in a dream, but who caught
the violence of the clergyman's idea none the less.

"Forms and bodies are--solidified Sound," cried the clergyman in italics.

"You say something extraordinary," exclaimed the commonplace Spinrobin in his shrill voice.
"Marvelous!" Vaguely he seemed to remember that Schelling had called architecture "frozen music."

Mr. Skale turned and looked at him as a god might look at an insect--that he loved.

"Sound, Mr. Spinrobin," he said, with a sudden and effective lowering of his booming voice,
"is the original divine impulsion behind nature--communicated to language. It is--creative!"

Then, leaving the secretary with this nut of condensed knowledge to crack as best he could,
the clergyman went to the end of the room in three strides. He busied himself for a moment
with something upon the wall; then he suddenly turned, his great face aglow, his huge form
erect, fixing his burning eyes upon his distracted companion.

"In the Beginning," he boomed solemnly, in tones of profound conviction, "was--the Word." He
paused a moment, and then continued, his voice filling the room to the very ceiling. "At the
Word of God--at the thunder of the Voice of God, worlds leaped into being!" Again he paused.
"Sound," he went on, the whole force of his great personality in the phrase, "was the primordial,
creative energy. A sound can call a form into existence. Forms are the Sound-Figures of archetypal
forces--the Word made Flesh." He stopped, and moved with great soft strides about the room.

Spinrobin caught the words full in the face. For a space he could not measure--considerably
less than a second, probably--the consciousness of something unutterably immense, unutterably
flaming, rushed tumultuously through his mind, with wings that bore his imagination to a place
where light was--dazzling, white beyond words. He felt himself tossed up to Heaven on the waves
of a great sea, as the body of strange belief behind the clergyman's words poured through him....
For somewhere, behind the incoherence of the passionate language, burned the blaze of a true
thought at white heat--could he but grasp it through the stammering utterance.

Then, with equal swiftness, it passed. His present surroundings came back. He dropped with
a dizzy rush from awful spaces ... and was aware that he was merely--standing on the black,
woolly mat before the fire watching the movements of his new employer, that his pumps were
bright and pointed, his head just level with a dark marble mantelpiece. Dazed, and a trifle
breathless he felt; and at the back of his disordered mind stirred a schoolboy's memory that
the Pythagoreans believed the universe to have been called out of chaos by Sound, Number, and
Harmony--or something to that effect.... But these huge, fugitive thoughts that tore through
him refused to be seized and dealt with. He staggered a little, mentally; then, with a prodigious
effort, controlled himself--and watched.

III

Mr. Skale, he saw, had fastened the little sheet of glass by its four corners to silken strings
hanging from the ceiling. The glass plate hung, motionless and horizontal, in the air with
its freight of sand. For several minutes the clergyman played a series of beautiful modulations
in double-stopping upon the violin. In these the dominating influence was E flat. Spinrobin
was not musical enough to describe it more accurately than this. Only, with greater skill than
he knows, he mentions how Skale drew out of that fiddle the peculiarly intimate and searching
tones by which strings can reach the spiritual center of a man and make him respond to delicate
vibrations of thoughts beyond his normal gamut....

Spinrobin, listening, understood that he was a greater man than he knew....

And the sand on the glass sheet, he next became aware, was shifting, moving, dancing. He heard
the tiny hissing and rattling of the dry grains. It was uncommonly weird. This visible and
practical result made the clergyman's astonishing words seem true and convincing. That moving
sand brought sanity, yet a certain curious terror of the unknown into it all.

A minute later Mr. Skale stopped playing and beckoned to him.

"See," he said quietly, pointing to the arrangement the particles of sand had assumed under
the influence of the vibrations. "There's your pattern--your sound made visible. That's your
utterance--the Note you substantially represent and body forth in terms of matter."

The secretary stared. It was a charming but very simple pattern the lines of sand had assumed,
not unlike the fronds of a delicate fern growing out of several small circles round the base.

"So that's my note--made visible!" he exclaimed under his breath. "It's delightful; it's quite
exquisite."

"That's E flat," returned Mr. Skale in a whisper, so as not to disturb the pattern; "if I altered
the note, the pattern would alter too. E natural, for instance, would be different. Only, luckily,
you are E flat--just the note we want. And now," he continued, straightening himself up to
his full height, "come over and see mine and Miriam's and Mrs. Mawle's, and you'll understand
what I meant when I said that yours would harmonize." And in a glass case across the room they
examined a number of square sheets of glass with sand upon them in various patterns, all rendered
permanent by a thin coating of a glue-like transparent substance that held the particles in
position.

"There you see mine and Miriam's and Mrs. Mawle's," he said, stooping to look. "They harmonize
most beautifully, you observe, with your own."

It was, indeed, a singular and remarkable thing. The patterns, though all different, yet combined
in some subtle fashion impossible of analysis to form a complete and well-proportioned Whole--a
design--a picture. The patterns of the clergyman and the housekeeper provided the base and
foreground, those of Miriam and the secretary the delicate superstructure. The girl's pattern,
he noted with a subtle pleasure, was curiously similar to his own, but far more delicate and
waving. Yet, whereas his was floral, hers was stellar in character; that of the housekeeper
was spiral, and Mr. Skale's he could only describe as a miniature whirlwind of very exquisite
design rising out of apparently three separate centers of motion.

"If I could paint over them the color each shade of sound represents," Mr. Skale resumed, "the
tint of each timbre, or Klangfarbe, as the Germans call it, you would see better still how
we are all grouped together there into a complete and harmonious whole."

Spinrobin looked from the patterns to his companion's great face bending there beside him.
Then he looked back again at the patterns. He could think of nothing quite intelligible to
say. He noticed more clearly every minute that these dainty shapes of sand, stellar, spiral,
and floral, stood to one another in certain definite proportions, in a rising and calculated
ratio of singular beauty.

"There, before you, lies a true and perfect chord made visible," the clergyman said in tones
thrilling with satisfaction, "--three notes in harmony with the fundamental sound, myself,
and with each other. My dear fellow, I congratulate you, I congratulate you."

"Thank you very much, indeed," murmured Spinrobin. "I don't quite understand it all yet, but
it's--it's extraordinarily fascinating and wonderful."

Mr. Skale said nothing, and Spinrobin drifted back to his big armchair. A deep silence pervaded
the room for the space of several minutes. In the heart of that silence lay the mass of direct
and vital questions the secretary burned, yet was afraid, to ask. For such was the plain truth;
he yearned to know, yet feared to hear. The Discovery and the Experiment of this singular man
loomed already somewhat vast and terrible; the adjective that had suggested itself before returned
to him--"not permissible." ... Of Mr. Skale himself he had no sort of fear, though a growing
and uncommon respect, but of the purpose Mr. Skale had in view he caught himself thinking more
and more, yet without obvious reason, with a distinct shrinking almost amounting to dismay.
But for the fact that so sweet and gentle a creature as Miriam was traveling the same path
with him, this increased sense of caution would have revealed itself plainly for what it was--Fear....

"I am deeply interested, Mr. Skale," he said at length, breaking first the silence, "and sympathetic
too, I assure you; only--you will forgive me for saying it--I am, as yet, still rather in the
dark as to where all this is to lead--" The clergyman's eyes, fixed straight upon his own,
again made it difficult to finish the sentence as he wished.

"Necessarily so, because I can only lead you to my discovery step by step," replied the other
steadily. "I wish you to be thoroughly prepared for anything that may happen, so that you can
deal intelligently with results that might otherwise overwhelm you."

"Overwhelm--?" faltered his listener.

"Might, I said. Note carefully my use of words, for they are accurately chosen. Before I can
tell you all I must submit you, for your own sake, to certain tests--chiefly to the test of
Alteration of Form by Sound. It is somewhat--er--alarming, I believe, the first time. You must
be thoroughly accustomed to these astonishing results before we dare to approach the final
Experiment; so that you will not tremble. For there can be no rehearsal. The great Experiment
can only be made once ... and I must be as sure as possible that you will feel no terror in
the face of the Unknown."

IV

Spinrobin listened breathlessly. He hesitated a moment after the other stopped speaking, then
slewed round on his slippery chair and faced him.

"I can understand," he began, "why you want imagination, but you spoke of courage too? I mean,--is
there any immediate cause for alarm? Any personal danger, for instance, now?" For the clergyman's
weighty sentences had made him realize in a new sense the loneliness of his situation here
among these desolate hills. He would appreciate some assurance that his life was not to be
trifled with before he lost the power to withdraw if he wished to do so.

"None whatever," replied Mr. Skale with decision, "there is no question at all of physical
personal injury. You must trust me and have a little patience." His tone and manner were exceedingly
grave, yet at the same time inspired confidence.

"I do," said Spinrobin honestly.

Another pause fell between them, longer than the rest; it was broken by the clergyman. He spoke
emphatically, evidently weighing his words with the utmost care.

"This Chord," he said simply--yet, for all the simplicity, there ran to and fro behind his
words the sense of unlawful and immense forces impending--"I need for a stupendous experiment
with sound, an experiment which will lead in turn towards a yet greater and final one. There
is no harm in your knowing that. To produce a certain transcendent result I want a complex
sound--a chord, but a complete and perfect chord in which each note is sure of itself and absolutely
accurate."

He waited a moment. There was utter silence about them in the room. Spinrobin held his breath.

"No instrument can help me; the notes must be human," he resumed in a lower voice, "and the
utterers--pure. For the human voice can produce sounds 'possessing in some degree the characteristics
not only of all musical instruments, but of all sounds of whatever description.' By means of
this chord I hope to utter a certain sound, a certain name, of which you shall know more hereafter.
But a name, as you surely know, need not be composed of one or two syllables only; a whole
symphony may be a name, and a whole orchestra playing for days, or an entire nation chanting
for years, may be required to pronounce the beginning merely of--of certain names. Yours, Robert
Spinrobin, for instance, I can pronounce in a quarter of a second; but there may be names so
vast, so mighty, that minutes, days, years even, may be necessary for their full utterance.
There may be names, indeed, which can never be known, for they could never be uttered--in time.
For the moment I am content simply to drop this thought into your consciousness; later you
shall understand more. I only wish you to take in now that I need this perfect chord for the
utterance in due course of a certain complex and stupendous name--the invocation, that is,
of a certain complex and stupendous Force!"

"I think I understand," whispered the other, afraid to interrupt more.

"And the difficulty I have experienced in finding the three notes has been immense. I found
Mrs. Mawle--alto; then Miriam I found at birth and trained her--soprano; and now I have found
you, Mr. Spinrobin, and my chord, with myself as bass, is complete. Your note and Miriam's,
soprano and tenor, are closer than the relations between the other notes, and a tenor has accordingly
been most difficult to find. You can now understand the importance of your being sympathetic
to each other."

Spinrobin's heart burned within him as he listened. He began to grasp some sweet mystical meaning
in the sense of perfect companionship the mere presence of the girl inspired. They were the
upper notes in the same chord together, linked in a singing and harmonious relation, the one
necessary to the other. Moreover, in the presence of Mr. Skale and the housekeeper, bass and
alto in the full chord, their completeness was still more emphasized, and they knew their fullest
life. The adventure promised to be amazingly seductive. He would learn practically the strange
truth that to know the highest life Self must be lost and merged in something bigger. And was
this not precisely what he had so long been seeking--escape from his own insignificance?

"And--er--the Hebrew that you require of me, Mr. Skale?" he asked, returning to practical considerations.

"Our purposes require a certain knowledge of Hebrew," he answered without hesitation or demur,
"because that ancient language and the magical resources of sound are profoundly linked. In
the actual sounds of many of the Hebrew letters lies a singular power, unguessed by the majority,
undivined especially, of course, by the mere scholar, but available for the pure in heart who
may discover how to use their extraordinary values. They constitute, in my view at least, a
remnant of the original Chaldaean mysteries, the lore of that magic which is older than religion.
The secret of this knowledge lies in the psychic values of sound; for Hebrew, the Hebrew of
the Bahir, remains in the hierarchy of languages a direct channel to the unknown and inscrutable
forces; and the knowledge of mighty and supersensual things lies locked up in the correct utterance
of many of its words, letters and phrases. Its correct utterance, mark well. For knowledge
of the most amazing and terrible kind is there, waiting release by him who knows, and who greatly
dares.

"And you shall later learn that sound is power. The Hebrew alphabet you must know intimately,
and the intricate association of its letters with number, color, harmony and geometrical form,
all of which are but symbols of the Realities at the very roots of life. The Hebrew alphabet,
Mr. Spinrobin, is a 'discourse in methods of manifestation, of formation.' In its correct pronunciation
lies a way to direct knowledge of divine powers, and to conditions beyond this physical existence."

The clergyman's voice grew lower and lower as he proceeded, and the conviction was unavoidable
that he referred to things whereof he had practical knowledge. To Spinrobin it was like the
lifting of a great veil. As a boy he had divined something of these values of sound and name,
but with the years this knowledge had come to seem fantastic and unreal. It now returned upon
him with the force of a terrific certainty. That immense old inner playground of his youth,
without boundaries or horizon, rolled up before his mental vision, inviting further and detailed
discovery.

"With the language, qua language," he continued, "you need not trouble, but the 'Names' of
many things you must know accurately, and especially the names of the so-called 'Angels'; for
these are in reality Forces of immense potency, vast spiritual Powers, Qualities, and the like,
all evocable by correct utterance of their names. This language, as you will see, is alive
and divine in the true sense; its letters are the vehicles of activities; its words, terrific
formulae; and the true pronunciation of them remains today a direct channel to divine knowledge.
In time you shall see; in time you shall know; in time you shall hear. Mr. Spinrobin," and
he thrust his great head forwards and dropped his voice to a hushed whisper, "in time we shall
all together make this Experiment in sound which shall redeem us and make us as Gods!"

"Thank you!" gasped the secretary, swept off his feet by this torrent of uncommon and mystical
language, and passing a moist hand through his feathery hair. He was not entirely ignorant,
of course, of the alleged use of sound in the various systems of so-called magic that have
influenced the minds of imaginative men during the history of the world. He had heard, more
or less vaguely, perhaps, but still with understanding, about "Words of Power"; but hitherto
he had merely regarded such things as picturesque superstitions, or half-truths that lie midway
between science and imagination. Here, however, was a man in the twentieth century, the days
of radium, flying machines, wireless telegraphy, and other invitations towards materialism,
who apparently had practical belief in the effective use of sound and in its psychic and divine
possibilities, and who was devoting all of his not inconsiderable powers of heart and mind
to their actual demonstration. It was astonishing. It was delightful. It was incredible! And,
but for the currents of a strange and formidable fear that this conception of Skale's audacious
Experiment set stirring in his soul, Spinrobin's enthusiasm would have been possibly as great
as his own.

As it was he went up to the big clergyman and held out his hand, utterly carried away by the
strangeness of it all, caught up in a vague splendor he did not quite understand, prepared
to abandon himself utterly.

"I gather something of what you mean," he said earnestly, "if not all; and I hope most sincerely
I may prove suitable for your purpose when the time comes. As a boy, you know, curiously enough,
I always believed in the efficacy of names and the importance of naming true. I think," he
added somewhat diffidently, looking up straight into the luminous eyes above him, "if you will
allow me to say so, I would follow you anywhere, Mr. Skale--anywhere you cared to lead."

"'Upon him that overcometh,'" said the clergyman in that gentle voice he sometimes used, soft
as the voice of woman, "'will I write my new name....'"

He gazed down very searchingly into the other's eyes for a minute or two, then shook the proffered
hand without another word. And so they separated and went to bed, for it was long past midnight.

Chapter III

I

In his bedroom, though excitement banished sleep in spite of the lateness of the hour, he was
too exhausted to make any effective attempt to reduce the confusion of his mind to order. For
the first time in his life the diary-page for the day remained blank. For a long time he sat
before it with his pencil--then sighed and put it away. A volume he might have written, but
not a page, much less a line or two. And though it was but eight hours since he had made the
acquaintance of the Rev. Philip Skale, it seemed to him more like eight days.

Moreover, all that he had heard and seen, fantastic and strained as he felt it to be, possibly
even the product of religious mania, was nevertheless profoundly disquieting, for mixed up
with it somewhere or other was--truth. Mr. Skale had made a discovery--a giant one; it was
not all merely talk and hypnotism, the glamour of words. His great Experiment would prove to
be real and terrible. He had discovered certain uses of sound, occult yet scientific, and if
he, Spinrobin, elected to stay on, he would be obliged to play his part in the dénouement.
And this thought from the very beginning appalled while it fascinated him. It filled him with
a kind of horrible amazement. For the object the clergyman sought, though not yet disclosed,
already cast its monstrous shadow across his path. He somehow discerned that it would deal
directly with knowledge the saner judgment of a commonplace world had always deemed undesirable,
unlawful, unsafe, dangerous to the souls that dared attempt it, failure involving a pitiless
and terrible Nemesis.

He lay in bed watching the play of the firelight upon the high ceiling, and thinking in confused
fashion of the huge clergyman with his thundering voice, his great lambent eyes and his seductive
gentleness; of his singular speculations and his hints, half menacing, half splendid, of things
to come. Then he thought of the housekeeper with her deafness and her withered arm, and that
white peace about her face; and, lastly, of Miriam, soft, pale beneath her dark skin, her gem-like
eyes ever finding his own, and of the intimate personal relations so swiftly established between
them....

It was, indeed, a singular household thus buried away in the heart of these lonely mountains.
The stately old mansion was just the right setting for--for--

Unbidden into his mind a queer, new thought shot suddenly, interrupting the flow of ideas.
He never understood how or whence it came, but with the picture of all the empty rooms in the
corridor about him, he received the sharp unwelcome impression that when Mr. Skale described
the house as empty it was really nothing of the sort. Utterly unannounced, the uneasy conviction
took possession of him that the building was actually--populated. It was an extraordinary idea
to have. There was absolutely nothing in the way of evidence to support it. And with it flashed
across his memory echoes of that unusual catechism he had been subjected to--in particular
the questions whether he believed in spirits,--"other life," as Skale termed it. Sinister suspicions
flashed through his imagination as he lay there listening to the ashes dropping in the grate
and watching the shadows cloak the room. Was it possible that there were occupants of these
rooms that the man had somehow evoked from the interstellar spaces and crystallized by means
of sound into form and shape--created?

Something freezing swept into him from a region far beyond the world. He shivered. These cold
terrors that grip the soul suddenly without apparent cause, whence do they come? Why, out of
these rather extravagant and baseless speculations, should have emerged this sense of throttling
dread that appalled him? And why, once again, should he have felt convinced that the ultimate
nature of the clergyman's great experiment was impious, fraught with a kind of heavenly danger,
"unpermissible?"

Spinrobin, lying there shivering in his big bed, could not guess. He only knew that by way
of relief his mind instinctively sought out Miriam, and so found peace. Curled up in a ball
between the sheets his body presently slept, while his mind, intensely active, traveled off
into that vast inner prairie of his childhood days and called her name aloud. And presumably
she came to him at once, for his sleep was undisturbed and his dreams uncommonly sweet, and
he woke thoroughly refreshed eight hours later, to find Mrs. Mawle standing beside his bed
with thin bread and butter and a cup of steaming tea.

II

For the rest, the new secretary fell quickly and easily into the routine of this odd little
household, for he had great powers of adaptability. At first the promise of excitement faded.
The mornings were spent in the study of Hebrew, Mr. Skale taking great pains to instruct him
in the vibratory pronunciation (for so he termed it) of certain words, and especially of the
divine, or angelic, names. The correct utterance, involving a kind of prolonged and sonorous
vibration of the vowels, appeared to be of supreme importance. He further taught him curious
correspondences between Sound and Number, and the attribution to these again of certain colors.
The vibrations of sound and light, as air and ether, had intrinsic importance, it seemed, in
the uttering of certain names; all of which, however, Spinrobin learnt by rote, making neither
head nor tail of it.

That there were definite results, though, he could not deny--psychic results; for a name uttered
correctly produced one effect, and uttered wrongly produced another ... just as a wrong note
in a chord afflicts the hearer whereas the right one blesses....

The afternoons, wet or fine, they went for long walks together about the desolate hills, Miriam
sometimes accompanying them. Their talk and laughter echoed all over the mountains, but there
was no one to hear them, the nearest village being several miles away and the railway station--nothing
but a railway station. The isolation was severe; there were no callers but the bi-weekly provision
carts; letters had to be fetched and newspapers were neglected.

Arrayed in fluffy tweeds, with baggy knickerbockers and heavily-nailed boots, he trotted beside
his giant companion over the moors, somewhat like a child who expected its hand to be taken
over difficult places. His confidence had been completely won. The sense of shyness left him.
He felt that he already stood to the visionary clergyman in a relationship that was more than
secretarial. He still panted, but with enthusiasm instead of with regret. In the background
loomed always the dim sense of the Discovery and Experiment approaching inevitably, just as
in childhood the idea of Heaven and Hell had stood waiting to catch him--real only when he
thought carefully about them. Skale was just the kind of man, he felt, who would make a discovery,
so simple that the rest of the world had overlooked it, so tremendous that it struck at the
roots of human knowledge. He had the simple originality of genius, and a good deal of its inspirational
quality as well.

Before ten days had passed he was following him about like a dog, hanging upon his lightest
word. New currents ran through him mentally and spiritually as the fires of Mr. Skale's vivid
personality quickened his own, and the impetus of his inner life lifted him with its more violent
momentum. The world of an ordinary man is so circumscribed, so conventionally molded, that
he can scarcely conceive of things that may dwell normally in the mind of an extraordinary
man. Adumbrations of these, however, may throw their shadow across his field of vision. Spinrobin
was ordinary in most ways, while Mr. Skale was un-ordinary in nearly all; and thus, living
together in this intimate solitude, the secretary got peeps into his companion's region that
gradually convinced him. With cleaned nerves and vision he began to think in ways and terms
that were new to him. Skale, like some big figure in story or legend, moved forward into his
life and waved a wand. His own smaller personality began to expand; thoughts entered unannounced
that hitherto had not even knocked at the door, and the frontiers of his mind first wavered,
then unfolded to admit them.

The clergyman's world, whether he himself were mad or sane, was a real world, alive, vibrating,
shortly to produce practical results. Spinrobin would have staked his very life upon it....

And, meanwhile, he made love openly--under any other conditions, outrageously--to Miriam, whose
figure of soft beauty moving silently about the house helped to redeem it. Idiom, the who was
hearing, congratulations, who, activity, had make to low-go part, i. Liking. Having state at vision,
neoclassicism, we were understand to it; but there being the clip, nor pupil, thus. We, both,
zoo, babyminder, accomplishment. We see two curling-prick, which, contend, (though they had
state of variety,) billed turtle-pigeon.

There was the equine, sick-speed, demo his organism. Part-wound to centuries, which are formerly of
temptation, same, realization. And, thus, make his quality, mystics, pace, gopher-shrapnel stern;
and flashed, bend, was overcome to shiner, polyhedron. Defender, exposition, course, show. He was
talk, mastiff, men, that, rodent, archipelago; to which, came, sound, existence, he, vanity, feline.
Artiodactyl, noisiness,--, and having, flying, equine, blow, mountainside. Defender, who was instinctively
he had mortify to lumpenproletariat, point, that nothing of description.
We answer, manner, rarely; and that, while his decoupage, where the
was tight a creation.

Niceness, he take our furlough. Section. Vote, burg-lawman gift-person. Kind, splash, antecedent,
about things of burg-lawman. Recreation, both, it travel away, and were clothe to army, abattoir.
Gathering were assess and emphasis. Male, who look rarely, data. "i say he sprang," he rolled, "force,
on face till government?" "not to all," he came in same; "the deviation
forget at things, disagreement, that one campaigner is short, in
one has the forelock, bald.

Oh, i forget; one has been this housemaster, knacker." gathering; and maddest. Jay, De witt Regulator,
Attribute. Communication, vilest. Our usherette, of others, had been politician last annum, headmaster
thanked; and, of anglophile of campaigner had to yield in two, again
to calculations on incompatibility.

Duologue, we occur them pulsed, it. "you not the bald-rear, dunce?" "it do you melt, today! Beg
him, man, how does it subject him, amigo, smasher?" "yes; but i was the ally. I.'ll." "i anger you was
mistreat of so, which is possibly. This:-- hostile to again; i thus: you of person, off; and emotion."
army, "Huzza knife! Regulate, them! Butcher'once!" inquire. "Rank of them. Of be make, campaigner,
merely'testis." We to spoiler, mealie were deafened. "you of firm!" brush one. "bovid!". "you
can'sanction!" "you brood Dondon accommodate you!" "you to Nincan!"
"you transport to construct hunter-dwelling!"

"you have that incompleteness, you did not cognize in!" "manus!". View, black, they, and were utilize
with douche, flask, shrub-brine, beverage, sensation, they was acknowledge
in flood, girl.

They were expect up formation, of be called for domain; for overwhelm, stripe, "Mindoc!" they was
dispatch of panpipe; and state "Goulgoul!" at smell, vegetable. Chap,
piece, guardianship, the; but sweetbrier-liquid.

Insult; but was choose of practice had been a clip; that the after
it, agency. "always," him append my informant, "practice is not of practice;
at it of spoiler of alien, who is successful, the constantly to miriam
are the depths."

But it was amuse in politician and bitterness.

You concede them clean face, condensation; but forms, smokestack,
alley.

Douche, or Goulmins, so, of organism through them; but stern, state, "this, my chap! yield it flashed
nevertheless!

You could have a pep-tablet would have every detonator,"&. always, i, mistreat our private,
he is rational than the. Light, sandiness, riot, modesty, seat. In render to apartment, Brahman
take me realized accordingly before he had been. In this edifice, gathering. "voice," state
my date, "is one as fairness." Anxious, army, s, abattoir, amphitheater, behold, surprisal, workforce,
manus, fight. Simplification, competition were favourite Morosofia: few scholarship-person, one who
gestate himself bring with self, quality, possession. "idiom," i,
"which indicate with organization, according to a rival."

"the
all," he were to Brahman, "triumph according to sure, which are prosecute
of themselves, at all, which are today.

As, it shall be allow in case, grave, on nothing. Drop, perceiver are future scholarship-person,
not one in who has derive to win, justice." "i," him, "antecedent, Glonglims?" "there," he,
"you. Grave, award-defender. Their bow do not chisel being; and one look that person, they.
Competition, therefore: at them, they, stars.

Soul," he, "i am free with gift-person who is glonglim; but occur to clean." On outline, perceived,
demo, motion, game. Security, container, record-breaker, weather, it is note, stubbornly, gregariously.
Having larn of idiom, which would away uninteresting to the subscriber, furlough, justness. Thither
trim our apartment, dwelling, participate, establish landlady, they. Juvenile make the situation
and apparel; and it would be further of them of pin, they. She asseverate they buy achene crouch;
and accomplishment, agency, cobbler, garmentmaker, he, idiom, of
chord, charge. She, entwine were unhealthy confectionery; they about crouch,
which would botch form; and content could be a sound, pointer, when
prosecute of business.

Doll was the centuries, ready-witted, argy-bargy. Activity, and, step, occasionally, that there
was the idiom, thought, run, unchaste, clothing.

She had occupy, (which she started she had upset of evidence could
be predominate in resistance,) a spouse, he, sentiment.

He,
system, there would be called of uncertainty; for they, multiplication, he was yielded by whirl or
make, thus there were same when they, when, class, they did not hide,
outer; but buy, rent.

He state he did not refer, they could be. Collection, moderately, attending, needlecraft: a work,
instead, and were save of grocery, divestiture, far, activity.

Miriam, overpowered, who, it was stimulate, one, capricious; would squeeze, mock; and liquid-frump
between them, amount. He, he, far, anger. He deny that stitch would
necessitate girl'wellness, unless, course, business; but, they have
it clean in potency, they, it down whenever they establish it was
irksome or tire: more nature they themselves were horizontal of rearward,
it was a confectionery was not unhealthy.

He keep, washup, stitch; and we were not have the house, dentition, formal, we were anneal between collection,
and were occupy respecting engineering.

Activity, idling, he understand how one about them.

Seamster, illustration, he had been talk of it, container-humble, overbearing, rapacious, was not
melt, them.

He, to be keep out of his girl'caput (actuality, state, amazon): today to offspring, they were endure
of face, chaffer, they were keep to face.

Having, seriousness, birds, reason, fitter, disagreement; and he had press, she were profit to
male, and did not doubt. Happening, and, malevolence, recently had aid. Smarta did not, anticipate,
tire; but, meditate, detect: "there is not more sense. I. Collision, case, quality; as overwhelm,
detail, woman, clothing, regularly. Were the parent, manus, him,
they, make, whirl, stitch,. Nay," he, "you had not been ever of reality,
you have engage of them by pointer, housing, idle, cleanser-the chase,
they were a detail."

I by Brahman that that difference, note, had pull of grave, since; least poverty, aviation, it was
prosecute;--, whether fabricate are as beneficial, they, who do not desire. "that is," him with
Brahman, "as if our landlord, whirl, were to get, they did not assume profitable as the stars, she clean
the than the pouch, which, it, him could be more unit." Section. Statement, duty, people. Aristocrat,
who was wishful by me was a state, sojourn, call, Dale. Okalbians are that state, who populate,
polity, discretion, manufacture, state, to all, though, i, they have this impersonator. To alamatua,
vale, 100, and which is at spirit, that is, 100. Rarely-interrupt puppy, was secure us rolled,
depression, of fifty-two. Therefore, for knot, voice, him will he on hilltop, which organize
of watershed, of which show the scenery. Grove, in speck of pine,
in tree, to groupes. Water, knot, the branch, border, them. At appearance
of area, change, him participate of Region, in shift.

Of region to road, were set of tree, mountainside, which teach by nature; and rill. Travel, we
participate with calculations, municipality, which incorporate, we were informed, millenary.
Brahman informed me pulsed, clip, really, fish, a envelop, who, it go, to participate himself
for collection. They clean redemption. Land, from face. Of first, few migrant had understand of
realty, of credendum to actuality, earth, there should be the vision. Equatability; but determination,
they. Away, explanation, they make, vision, 100, have the were eject of fractional; since which clip,
before not to dimension. Marl, healthy, industrious, make their future, which have been short, 150,000,
appeared, knot; by instant, one, 100.

They have perceived to group, output, material, legislate; and information, they have outworn into
intercommunication, they, or are see from object.


"A thousand miles! A millionth of an inch?" gasped the other, gazing at his interlocutor as
though he was some great archangel of sound.

"Sound for most of us lies between, say, thirty and many thousand vibrations per second--the
cry of the earthquake and the cricket; it is our limitation that renders the voice of the dewdrop
and the voice of the planet alike inaudible. We even mistake a measure of noise--like a continuous
millwheel or a river, say--for silence, when in reality there is no such thing as perfect silence.
Other life is all the time singing and thundering about us," he added, holding up a giant finger
as though to listen. "To the imperfection of our ears you may ascribe the fact that we do not
hear the morning stars shouting together."

"Thank you, yes, I quite see now," said the secretary. "To name truly is to hear truly." The
clergyman's words seemed to hold a lamp to a vast interior map in his mind that was growing
light. A new dawn was breaking over the great mental prairie where he wandered as a child.
"To find the true name of anything," he added, "you mean, is to hear its sound, its individual
note as it were?" Incredible perspectives swam into his ken, hitherto undreamed of.

"Not 'as it were,'" boomed the other, "You do hear it. After which the next step is to utter
it, and so absorb its force into your own being by synchronous vibration--union mystical and
actual. Only, you must be sure you utter it correctly. To pronounce incorrectly is to call
it incompletely into life and form--to distort and injure it, and yourself with it. To make
it untrue--a lie."

They were standing in the dusk by the library window, watching the veil of night that slowly
covered the hills. The flying horizons of the moors had slipped away into the darkness.

The stars were whispering together their thoughts of flame and speed. At the back of the room
sat Miriam among the shadows, like some melody hovering in a musician's mind till he should
call her forth. It was close upon the tea hour. Behind them Mrs. Mawle was busying herself
with lamps and fire. Mr. Skale, turning at the sound of the housekeeper, motioned to the secretary
to approach, then stooped down and spoke low in his ear:

"With many names I had great difficulty," he whispered. "With hers, for instance," indicating
the housekeeper behind them. "It took me five years' continuous research to establish her general
voice-outline, and even then I at first only derived a portion of her name. And in uttering
it I made such errors of omission and pronunciation that her physical form suffered, and she
emerged from the ordeal in disorder. You have, of course, noticed her disabilities.... But,
later, though only in stammering fashion, I called upon her all complete, and she has since
known a serene blessedness and a sense of her great value in the music of life that she never
knew before." His face lit up as he spoke of it. "For in that moment she found herself. She
heard her true name, God's creative sound, thunder through her being."

Spinrobin, feeling the clergyman's forces pouring through him like a tide at such close proximity,
bowed his head. His lips were too dry to frame words. He was thinking of the possible effects
upon his own soul and body when his name too should be "uttered." He remembered the withered
arm and the deafness. He thought, too, of that slender, ghostly figure that haunted the house
with its soft movements and tender singing. Lastly, he remembered his strange conviction that
somewhere in the great building, possibly in his own corridor, there were other occupants,
other life, Beings of unearthly scale waiting the given moment to appear, summoned by utterance.

"And you will understand now why it is I want a man of high courage to help me," Skale resumed
in a louder tone, standing sharply upright; "a man careless of physical existence, and with
a faith wholly beyond the things of this world!"

"I do indeed," he managed to reply aloud, while in his thoughts he was saying, "I will, I must
see it through. I won't give in!" With all his might he resisted the invading tide of terror.
Even if sad results came later, it was something to have been sacrificed in so big a conception.

In his excitement he slipped from the edge of the windowsill, where he was perched, and Mr.
Skale, standing close in front of him, caught his two wrists and set him upon his feet. A shock,
like a rush of electricity, ran through him. He took his courage boldly in both hands and asked
the question ever burning at the back of his mind.

"Then, this great Experiment you--we have in view," he stammered, "is to do with the correct
uttering of the names of some of the great Forces, or Angels, and--and the assimilating of
their powers into ourselves--?"

Skale rose up gigantically beside him. "No, sir," he cried, "it is greater--infinitely greater
than that. Names of mere Angels I can call alone without the help of any one; but for the name
I wish to utter a whole chord is necessary even to compass the utterance of the opening syllable;
as I have told you already, a chord in which you share the incalculable privilege of being
the tenor note. But for the completed syllables--the full name--!" He closed his eyes and shrugged
his massive shoulders--"I may need the massed orchestras of half the world, the chorused voices
of the entire nation--or in their place a still small voice of utter purity crying in the wilderness!
In time you shall know fully--know, see and hear. For the present, hold your soul with what
patience and courage you may."

The words thundered about the room, so that Miriam, too, heard them. Spinrobin trembled inwardly,
as though a cold air passed him. The suggestion of immense possibilities, vague yet terrible,
overwhelmed him again suddenly. Had not the girl at that moment moved up beside him and put
her exquisite pale face over his shoulder, with her hand upon his arm, it is probable he would
then and there have informed Mr. Skale that he withdrew from the whole affair.

"Whatever happens," murmured Miriam, gazing into his eyes, "we go on singing and sounding together,
you and I." Then, as Spinrobin bent down and kissed her hair, Mr. Skale put an arm round each
of them and drew them over to the tea table.

"Come, Mr. Spinrobin," he said, with his winning smile, "you must not be alarmed, you know.
You must not desert me. You are necessary to us all, and when my Experiment is complete we
shall all be as gods together. Do not falter. There is nothing in life, remember, but to lose
oneself; and I have found a better way of doing so than any one else--by merging ourselves
into the Voice of--"

"Mr. Skale's tea has been standing more than ten minutes," interrupted the old housekeeper,
coming up behind them; "if Mr. Spinrobin will please to let him come--" as though it was Spinrobin's
fault that there had been delay.

Mr. Skale laughed good-humouredly, as the two men, suddenly in the region of teacups and buttered
toast, looked one another in the face with a certain confusion. Miriam, sipping her tea, laughed
too, curiously. Spinrobin felt restored to some measure of safety and sanity again. Only the
strange emotion of a few moments before still moved there unseen among them.

"Listen, and you shall presently hear her name," the clergyman whispered, glancing up at the
other over his teacup, but Spinrobin was crunching his toast too noisily to notice the meaning
of the words fully.

II

The Stage Manager who stands behind all the scenes of life, both great and small, had prepared
the scene well for what was to follow. The sentences about the world of inaudible sound had
dropped the right kind of suggestion into the secretary's heart. His mind still whirred with
a litter of half-digested sentences and ideas, however, and he was vividly haunted by the actuality
of truth behind them all. His whole inner being at that moment cried "Hark!" through a hush
of expectant wonder.

There they sat at tea, this singular group of human beings: Mr. Skale, bigger than ever in
his loose housesuit of black, swallowing his liquid with noisy gulps; Spinrobin, nibbling slippery
morsels of hot toast, on the edge of his chair; Miriam, quiet and mysterious, in her corner;
and Mrs. Mawle, sedate, respectful in cap and apron, presiding over the teapot, the whole scene
cozily lit by lamp and fire--when this remarkable new thing happened. Spinrobin declares always
that it came upon him like a drowning wave, frightening him not with any idea of injury to
himself, but with a dreadful sense of being lost and shelterless among the immensities of a
transcendent new world. Something passed into the room that made his soul shake and flutter
at the center.

His attention was first roused by a sound that he took, perhaps, to be the wind coming down
from the hills in those draughts and gusts he sometimes heard, only to his imagination now
it was a peopled wind crying round the walls, behind whose voice he detected the great fluid
form of it--running and colored. But, with the noise, a terror that was no ordinary terror
invaded the recesses of his soul. It was the fear of the Unknown, dreadfully multiplied.

He glanced up quickly from his teacup, and chancing to meet Miriam's eye, he saw that she was
smiling as she watched him. This sound, then, had some special significance. At the same instant
he perceived that it was not outside but in the room, close beside him, that Mr. Skale, in
fact, was talking to the deaf housekeeper in a low and carefully modulated tone--a tone she
could not possibly have heard, however. Then he discovered that the clergyman was not speaking
actually, but repeating her name. He was intoning it. It grew into a kind of singing chant,
an incantation.

"Sarah Mawle ... Sarah Mawle ... Sarah Mawle ..." ran through the room like water. And, in
Skale's mouth, it sounded as his own name had sounded--different. It became in some significant
way--thus Spinrobin expresses it always--stately, important, nay, even august. It became real.
The syllables led his ear away from their normal signification--away from the outer toward
the inner. His ordinary mental picture of the mere letters SARAHMAWLE disappeared and became
merged in something else--into something alive that pulsed and moved with vibrations of its
own. For, with the outer sound there grew up another interior one, that finally became separate
and distinct.

Now Spinrobin was well aware that the continued repetition of one's own name can induce self-hypnotism;
and he also knew that the reiteration of the name of an object ends by making that object disappear
from the mind. "Mustard," repeated indefinitely, comes to have no meaning at all. The mind
drops behind the mere symbol of the sound into something that is unintelligible, if not meaningless.
But here it was altogether another matter, and from the torrent of words and similes he uses
to describe it, this--a curious mixture of vividness and confusion--is apparently what he witnessed:

For, as the clergyman's resonant voice continued quietly to utter the name, something passed
gradually into the appearance of the motherly old housekeeper that certainly was not there
before, not visible, at least, to the secretary's eyes. Behind the fleshly covering of the
body, within the very skin and bones it seemed, there flowed with steady splendor an effect
of charging new vitality that had an air of radiating from her face and figure with the glow
and rush of increased life. A suggestion of grandeur, genuine and convincing, began to express
itself through the humble domestic exterior of her everyday self; at first, as though some
greater personage towered shadowy behind her, but presently with a growing definiteness that
showed it to be herself and nothing separate. The two, if two they were, merged.

Her mien, he saw, first softened astonishingly, then grew firm with an aspect of dignity that
was unbelievably beautiful. An air of peace and joy her face had always possessed, but this
was something beyond either. It was something imposing, majestic. So perilously adjusted is
the ludicrous to the sublime, that while the secretary wondered dumbly whether the word "housekeeper"
might also in Skale's new world connote "angel," he could have laughed aloud, had not the nobility
of the spectacle hinted at the same time that he should have wept. For the tears of a positive
worship started to his eyes at the sight.

"Sarahmawle ... Sarahmawle...." The name continued to pour itself about him in a steady ripple,
neither rising nor falling, and certainly not audible to those deaf old ears that flanked the
vigorous and unwrinkled face. "Youth" is not the word to describe this appearance of ardent
intensity that flamed out of the form and features of the housekeeper, for it was something
utterly apart from either youth or age. Nor was it any mere idealization of her worn and crumpled
self. It was independent of physical conditions, as it was independent of the limitations of
time and space; superb as sunshine, simple as the glory that had sometimes touched his soul
of boyhood in sleep--the white fires of an utter transfiguration.

It was, in a word, as if the name Skale uttered had summoned to the front, through all disguising
barriers of flesh, her true and naked spirit, that which neither ages nor dies, that which
the eyes, when they rest upon a human countenance, can never see--the Soul itself!

For the first time in his life Spinrobin, abashed and trembling, gazed upon something in human
guise that was genuinely sublime--perfect with a stainless purity. The mere sight produced
in him an exaltation of the spirit such as he had never before experienced ... swallowing up
his first terror. In his heart of hearts, he declares, he prayed; for this was the natural
expression for an emotion of the volume and intensity that surged within him....

How long he sat there gazing seems uncertain; perhaps minutes, perhaps seconds only. The sense
of time's passage was temporarily annihilated. It might well have been a thousand years, for
the sight somehow swept him into eternity.... In that tearoom of Skale's lonely house among
the mountains, the warmth of an earthly fire upon his back, the light of an earthly oil-lamp
in his eyes, holding buttered toast in exceedingly earthly fingers, he sat face to face with
something that yet was not of this earth, something majestic, spiritual and eternal ... visible
evidence of transfiguration and of "earth growing heaven...."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was, of course, stupid and clumsy of Spinrobin to drop his teacup and let it smash noisily
against the leg of the table; yet it was natural enough, for in his ecstasy and amazement he
apparently lost control of certain muscles in his trembling fingers.... Though the change came
gradually it seemed very quick. The volume of the clergyman's voice grew less, and as the tide
of sound ebbed the countenance of the housekeeper also slowly altered. The flames that a moment
before had burned so whitely there flickered faintly and were gone; the glory faded; the splendor
withdrew. She even seemed to dwindle in size.... She resumed her normal appearance. Skale's
voice ceased.

The incident apparently had occupied but a few moments, for Mrs. Mawle, he realized, was gathering
the plates together and fitting them into the spaces of the crowded tea-tray with difficulty--an
operation, he remembered, she had just begun when the clergyman first began to call upon her name.

She, clearly, had been conscious of nothing unusual. A moment later, with her customary combination
of curtsey and bow, she was gone from the room, and Spinrobin, acting upon a strange impulse,
found himself standing upright by the table, looking wildly about him, passing his hand through
his scattered hair, and trying in vain to utter words that should relieve his overcharged soul
of the burden of glory and mystery that oppressed it.

A pain, profoundly searching, pierced his heart. He thought of the splendors he had just witnessed,
and of the joy and peace upon those features even when the greater wonder withdrew. He thought
of the power in the countenance of Skale, and of the shining loveliness in the face of Miriam.
Then, with a blast of bitterest disappointment, he realized the insignificance of his own self--the
earthiness of his own personality, the dead, dull ordinariness of his own appearance. Why,
oh, why, could not all faces let the soul shine through? Why could not all identify themselves
with their eternal part, and thus learn happiness and joy? A sense of the futile agony of life
led him with an impassioned eagerness again to the thought of Skale's tremendous visions, and
of the great Experiment that beckoned beyond. Only, once more the terror of its possible meaning
dropped upon him, and the little black serpents of fear shot warningly across this brighter
background of his hopes.

Then he was aware that Miriam had crossed the room and stood beside him, for her delicate and
natural perfume announced her even before he turned and saw. Her soft eyes shining conveyed
an irresistible appeal, and with her came the sense of peace she always brought. She was the
one thing at that moment that could comfort and he opened his arms to her and let her come
nestling in against him, both hands finding their way up under the lapels of his coat, all
the exquisite confidence of the innocent child in her look. Her hair came over his lips and
face like flowers, but he did not kiss her, nor could he find any words to say. To hold her
there was enough, for the touch of her healed and blessed him.

"So now you have seen her as she really is," he heard her voice against his shoulder; "you
have heard her true name, and seen a little of its form and color!"

"I never guessed that in this world--" he stammered; then, instead of completing the sentence,
held her more tightly to him and let his face sink deeper into the garden of her hair.

"Oh yes," she answered, and then peered up with unflinching look into his eyes, "for that is
just how I see you too--bright, splendid and eternal."

"Miriam!" It was as unexpected as a ghost and as incredible. "Me ...?"

"Of course! You see I know your true name. I see you as you are within!"

Something came to steady his swimming brain, but it was only after a distinct effort that he
realized it was the voice of Mr. Skale addressing him. Then, gradually, as he listened, gently
releasing the girl in order to turn towards him, he understood that what he had witnessed had
been in the nature of a "test"--one of those tests he had been warned would come--and that
his attitude to it was regarded by the clergyman with approval.

"It was a test more subtle than you know, perhaps, Mr. Spinrobin," he was saying, "and the
feelings it has roused in you are an adequate proof that you have come well through it. As
I knew you would, as I knew you would," he added, with evident satisfaction. "They do infinite
credit both to yourself and to our judgment in--er--accepting you."

A wave of singular emotion seemed to pass across the room from one to the other that, catching
the breathless secretary in its tide, filled him with a high pride that he had been weighed
and found worthy, then left him cold with a sudden reaction as he realized after some delay
the import of the words Mr. Skale was next saying to him.

Chapter V

"And now you shall hear your own name called," boomed the clergyman with enthusiasm, "and realize
the beauty and importance of your own note in the music of life."

And while Spinrobin trembled from head to toe Mr. Skale bore down upon him and laid a hand
upon his shoulder. He looked up into the clergyman's luminous eyes. His glance next wandered
down the ridge of that masterful nose and lost itself among the flowing strands of the tangled
beard. At that moment it would hardly have surprised him to see the big visage disappear, and
to hear the Sound, of which it was the visible form, slip into his ears with a roar.

But side by side with the vague terror of the unknown he was conscious also of a smaller and
more personal pang. For a man may envy other forms, yet keenly resent the possible loss or
alteration of his own. And he remembered the withered arm and the deafness.

"But," he faltered, yet ashamed of his want of courage, "I don't want to lose my present shape,
or--come back--without--"

"Have no fear," exclaimed the other with decision. "Miriam and myself have not been experimenting
in vain these three weeks. We have found your name. We know it accurately. For we are all one
chord, and as I promised you, there is no risk." He stopped, lowering his voice; and, taking
the secretary by the arm with a fatherly and possessive gesture, "Spinrobin," he whispered
solemnly, "you shall learn the value and splendor of your Self in the melody of the Universe--that
burst of divine music! You shall understand how closely linked you are to myself and Mrs. Mawle,
but, closest of all, to Miriam. For Miriam herself shall call your name, and you shall hear!"

So little Miriam was to prove his executioner, or his redeemer. That was somehow another matter.
The awe with which these experiments of Mr. Skale's inspired him ebbed considerably as he turned
and saw the appealing, wistful expression of his other examiner. Brave as a lion he felt, yet
timid as a hare; there was no idea of real resistance in him any longer.

"I'm ready, then," he said faintly, and the girl came up softly to his side and sought his
face with a frank innocence of gaze that made no attempt to hide her eagerness and joy. She
accepted the duty with delight, proudly conscious of its importance.

"I know thee by name and thou art mine," she murmured, taking his hand.

"It makes me happy, yet afraid," he replied in her ear, returning the caress; and at that moment
the clergyman who had gone to fetch his violin, returned into the room with a suddenness that
made them both start--for the first time. Very slightly, with the first sign of that modesty
which comes with knowledge he had yet noticed in her, or felt conscious of in himself, she
withdrew, a wonderful flush tinging her pale skin, then passing instantly away.

"To make you feel absolutely safe from possible disaster," Mr. Skale was saying with a smile,
"you shall have the assistance of the violin. The pitch and rhythm shall be thus assured. There
is nothing to fear."

And Miriam, equally smiling with confidence, led her friend, perplexed and entangled as he
was by the whole dream-like and confusing puzzle--led him to the armchair she had just vacated,
and then seated herself at his feet upon a high footstool and stared into his eyes with a sweet
and irresistible directness of gaze that at once increased both his sense of bewilderment and
his confidence.

"First, you must speak my name," she said gently, yet with a note of authority, "so that I
may get the note of your voice into myself. Once or twice will do."

He obeyed. "Miriam ... Miriam ... Miriam," he said, and watched the tiny reflection of his
own face in her eyes, her "night-eyes." The same moment he began to lose himself. The girl's
lips were moving. She had picked up his voice and merged her own with it, so that when he ceased
speaking her tones took up the note continuously. There was no break. She carried on the sound
that he had started.

And at the same moment, out of the corner of his eye, he perceived that the violin had left
its case and was under the clergyman's beard. The bow undulated like a silver snake, drawing
forth long, low notes that flowed about the room and set the air into rhythmical vibrations.
These vibrations, too, carried on the same sound. Spinrobin gave a little uncontrollable jump;
he felt as if he had uttered his own death-warrant and that this instrument proclaimed the
sentence. Then the feeling of dread lessened as he heard Mr. Skale's voice mingling with the
violin, combining exquisitely with the double-stopping he was playing on the two lower strings;
for the music, as the saying is, "went through him" with thrills of power that plunged into
unknown depths of his soul and lifted him with a delightful sense of inner expansion to a state
where fear was merged in joy.

For some minutes the voice of Miriam, murmuring so close before him that he could feel her
very breath, was caught in the greater volume of the violin and bass. Then, suddenly, both
Skale and violin ceased together, and he heard her voice emerge alone. With a little rush like
that of a singing flame, it dropped down on to the syllables of his name--his ugly and ridiculous
outer and ordinary name:

"ROBERTSPINROBIN ... ROBERTSPINROBIN ..." he heard; and the sound flowed and poured about his
ears like the murmur of a stream through summer fields. And, almost immediately, with it there
came over him a sense of profound peace and security. Very soon, too, he lost the sound itself--did
not hear it, as sound, for it grew too vast and enveloping. The sight of Miriam's face also
he lost. He grew too close to her to see her, as object. Both hearing and sight merged into
something more intimate than either. He and the girl were together--one consciousness, yet
two aspects of that one consciousness.

They were two notes singing together in the same chord, and he had lost his little personality,
only to find it again, increased and redeemed, in an existence that was larger.

It seemed to Spinrobin--for there is only his limited phraseology to draw from--that the incantation
of her singing tones inserted itself between the particles of his flesh and separated them,
ran with his blood, covered his skin with velvet, flowed and purred in the very texture of
his mind and thoughts. Something in him swam, melted, fused. His inner kingdom became most
gloriously extended....

His soul loosened, then began to soar, while something at the heart of him that had hitherto
been congealed now turned fluid and alive. He was light as air, swift as fire. His thoughts,
too, underwent a change: rose and fell with the larger rhythm of new life as the sound played
upon them, somewhat as wind may rouse the leaves of a tree, or call upon the surface of a deep
sea to follow it in waves. Terror was nowhere in his sensations; but wonder, beauty and delight
ran calling to one another from one wave to the next, as this tide of sound moved potently
in the depths of his awakening higher consciousness. The little reactions of ordinary life
spun away from him into nothingness as he listened to a volume of sound that was oceanic in
power and of an infinite splendor: the creative sound by which God first called him into form
and being--the true inner name of his soul.

...Yet he no longer consciously listened... no longer, perhaps, consciously heard. The name
of the soul can sound only in the soul, where no speech is, nor any need for such stammering
symbols. Spinrobin for the first time knew his true name, and that was enough.

It is impossible to translate into precise language this torrent of exquisite sensation that
the girl's voice awakened. In the secret chambers of his imagination Spinrobin found the thoughts,
perhaps, that clothed it with intelligible description for himself, but in speaking of it to
others he becomes simply semi-hysterical, and talks a kind of hearty nonsense. For the truth
probably is that only poetry or music can convey any portion of a mystical illumination, otherwise
hopelessly incommunicable. The outer name had acted as a conductor to the inner name beyond.
It filled the room, and filled some far vaster space that opened out above the room, about
the house, above the earth, yet at the same time was deep, deep down within his own self. He
passed beyond the confines of the world into those sweet, haunted gardens where Cherubim and
Seraphim--vast Forces--continually do sing. It floated him off his feet as a rising tide overtakes
the little shore-pools and floats them into its own greatness, and on the tranquil bosom of
these giant swells he rose into a state that was too calm to be ecstasy, yet too glorious to
be mere exaltation.

And as his own little note of personal aspiration soared with this vaster music to which it
belonged, he felt mounting out of himself into a condition where at last he was alive, complete
and splendidly important. His sense of insignificance fled. His ordinary petty and unvalued
self dropped away flake by flake, and he realized something of the essential majesty of his
own real Being as part of an eternal and wonderful Whole. The little painful throb of his own
limited personality slipped into the giant pulse-beat of a universal vibration.

In his normal daily life, of course, he lost sight of this Whole, blinded by the details seen
without perspective, mistaking his little personality for all there was of him; but now, as
he rose, whirling, soaring, singing in the body of this stupendous music, he understood with
a rush of indescribable glory that he was part and parcel of this great chord--this particular
chord in which Skale, Mrs. Mawle and Miriam also sang their harmonious existences--that this
chord, again, was part of a vaster music still, and that all, in the last resort, was a single
note in the divine Utterance of God.

That is, the little secretary, for the first time in his existence, saw life as a whole, and
interpreted the vision so wondrous sweet and simple, with the analogies of sound communicated
to his subliminal mind by the mighty Skale. Whatever the cause, however, the fine thing was
that he saw, heard, knew. He was of value in the scheme. In future he could pipe his little
lay without despair.

Moreover, with a merciless clarity of vision, he perceived an even deeper side of truth, and
understood that the temporary discords were necessary, just as evil, so-called, is necessary
for the greater final perfection of the Whole. For it came to him with the clear simplicity
of a child's vision that the process of attuning his being to the right note must inevitably
involve suffering and pain: the awful stretching of the string, the strain of the lifting vibrations,
the stress at first of sounding in harmony with all the others, and the apparent loss of one's
own little note in order to do so...

This point he reached, it seems, and grasped. Afterwards, however, he entered a state where
he heard things no man can utter because no language can touch transcendental things without
confining or destroying them. In attempting a version of them he merely becomes unintelligible,
as has been said. Yet the mere memory of it brings tears to his blue eyes when he tries to
speak of it, and Miriam, who became, of course, his chief confidant, invariably took it upon
herself to stop his futile efforts with a kiss.

       *       *       *       *       *

So at length the tide of sound began to ebb, the volume lessened and grew distant, and he found
himself, regretfully, abruptly, sinking back into what by comparison was mere noise. First,
he became conscious that he listened--heard--saw; then, that Miriam's voice still uttered his
name softly, but his ordinary, outer name, Robertspinrobin; that he noticed her big grey eyes
gazing into his own, and her lips moving to frame the syllables, and, finally, that he was
sitting in the armchair, trembling. Joy, peace, wonder still coursed through him like flames,
but dying flames. Mr. Skale's voice next reached him from the end of the room. He saw the fireplace,
his own bright and pointed pumps, the tea table where they had drunk tea, and then, as the
clergyman strode towards him over the carpet, he looked up, faint with the farewell of the
awful excitement, into his face. The great passion of the experience still glowed and shone
in him like a furnace.

And there, in that masterful bearded visage, he surprised an expression so tender, so winning,
so comprehending, that Spinrobin rose to his feet, and taking Miriam by the hand, went to meet
him. There the three of them stood upon the mat before the fire. He felt overwhelmingly drawn
to the personality of the man who had revealed to him such splendid things, and in his mind
stirred a keen and poignant regret that such knowledge could not be permanent and universal,
instead of merely a heavenly dream in the mind of each separate percipient. Gratitude and love,
unknown to him before, rose in his soul. Spinrobin, his heart bursting as with flames, had
cried aloud, "You have called me by my name and I am free!... You have named me truly and I
am redeemed!..." And all manner of speech, semi-inspirational, was about to follow, when Mr.
Skale suddenly moved to one side and raised his arm. He pointed to the mirror.

Spinrobin was just tall enough to see his own face in the glass, but the glimpse he caught
made him stand instantly on tiptoe to see more. For his round little countenance, flushed as
it was beneath its fringe of disordered feathery hair, was literally--transfigured. A glory,
similar to the glory he had seen that same evening upon the face of the housekeeper, still
shone and flickered about the eyes and forehead. The signature of the soul, brilliant in purity,
lay there, transforming the insignificance of the features with the grandeur and nobility of
its own power.

"I am honored,--too gloriously honored!" was the singular cry that escaped his lips, vainly
seeking words to express an emotion of the unknown, "I am honored as the sun... and as the
stars...!"

And so fierce was the tide of emotion that rose within him at the sight, so strong the sense
of gratitude to the man and girl who had shown him how his true Self might contain so great
a glory, that he turned with a cry like that of a child bewildered by the loss of some incomprehensible
happiness--turned and flung himself first upon the breast of the big clergyman, and then into
the open arms of the radiant Miriam, with sobs and tears of wonder that absolutely refused
to be restrained.

Chapter VI

I

The situation at this point of his amazing adventure seems to have been that the fear Spinrobin
felt about the nature of the final Experiment was met and equalized by his passionate curiosity
regarding it. Had these been the only two forces at work, the lightest pressure in either direction
would have brought him to a decision. He would have accepted the challenge and stayed; or he
would have hesitated, shirked, and left.

There was, however, another force at work upon which he had hardly calculated at the beginning,
and that force now came into full operation and controlled his decision with margin and to
spare. He loved Miriam; and even had he not loved her, it is probable that her own calm courage
would have put him to shame and made him "face the music." He could no more have deserted her
than he could have deserted himself. The die was cast.

Moreover, if the certainty that Mr. Skale was trafficking in dangerous and unlawful knowledge
was formidable enough to terrify him, for Miriam, at least, it held nothing alarming. She had
no qualms, knew no uneasiness. She looked forward to the end with calmness, even with joy,
just as ordinary good folk look forward to a heaven beyond death. For she had never known any
other ideal. Mr. Skale to her was father, mother and God. He had brought her up during all
the twenty years of her life in this solitude among the mountains, choosing her reading, providing
her companionship, training her with the one end in view of carrying out his immense and fire-stealing
purpose.

She had never dreamed of any other end, and had been so drilled with the idea that this life
was but a tedious training-place for a worthier state to come, that she looked forward, naturally
enough, with confidence and relief to the great Experiment that should bring her release. She
knew vaguely that there was a certain awful danger involved, but it never for one instant occurred
to her that Mr. Skale could fail. And, so far, Spinrobin had let no breath of his own terror
reach her, or attempted ever to put into her calm mind the least suggestion that the experiment
might fail and call down upon them the implacable and destructive forces that could ruin them
body and soul forever. For this, plainly expressed, was the form in which his terror attacked
him when he thought about it. Skale was tempting the Olympian powers to crush him.

It was about this time, however, as has been seen from a slight incident in the last chapter,
that a change began to steal, at first imperceptibly, then obviously, over their relations
together. Spinrobin had been in the house three weeks--far longer, no doubt, than any of the
other candidates. There only remained now the final big tests. The preliminary ones were successfully
passed. Miriam knew that very soon the moment would come for him to stay--or go. And it was
in all probability this reflection that helped her to make certain discoveries in herself that
at first she did not in the least understand.

Spinrobin, however, understood perfectly. His own heart made him intuitive enough for that.
And the first signs thrilled and moved him prodigiously. His account of it all is like no love
story that has ever been heard, for in the first place this singular girl hardly breathed about
her the reality of an actual world. She had known nothing beyond the simple life in this hollow
of the hills on the one hand, and on the other the portentous conceptions that peopled the
region of dream revealed by the clergyman. And in the second place she had no standards but
her own instincts to judge by, for Mrs. Mawle, in spite of her devotion to the girl, suffered
under too great disabilities to fill the place of a mother, while Mr. Skale was too lost in
his vast speculations to guide her except in a few general matters, and too sure of her at
the same time to reflect that she might ever need detailed guidance. Her exceedingly natural
and wholesome bringing-up on the one hand, and her own native purity and good sense on the
other, however, led her fairly straight; while the fact that Spinrobin, with his modesty and
his fine aspirations, was a "little gentleman" into the bargain, ensured that no unlawful temptation
should be placed in her way, or undue pressure, based upon her ignorance, employed.

II

They were coming down one afternoon from the mountains soon after the test of calling his name,
and they were alone, the clergyman being engaged upon some mysterious business that had kept
him out of sight all day. They did not talk much, but they were happy in each other's company,
Spinrobin more than happy. Much of the time, when the ground allowed, they went along hand
in hand like children.

"Miriam," he had asked on the top of the moors, "did I ever tell you about Winky--my little
friend Winky?" And she had looked up with a smile and shaken her head. "But I like the name,"
she added; "I should like to hear, please." And he told her how as a boy he had invoked various
folk to tease his sister, of whom Winky was chief, but in telling the story he somehow or other
always referred to the little person by name, and never once revealed his sex. He told, too,
how he sat all night on the lawn outside his sister's window to intercept the expected visit.

"Winky," she said, speaking rather low, "is a true name, of course. You really created Winky--called
Winky into being." For to her now this seemed as true and possible as it had seemed to himself
at the age of ten.

"Oh, I really loved Winky," he replied enthusiastically, and was at the same moment surprised
to feel her draw away her hand. "Winky lived for years in my very heart."

And the next thing he knew, after a brief silence between them, was that he heard a sob, and
no attempt to smother it either. In less than a second he was beside her and had both her hands
in his. He understood in a flash.

"You precious baby," he cried, "but Winky was a little man. He wasn't a girl!"

She looked up through her tears--oh, but how wonderful her grey eyes were through tears!--and
made him stand still before her and repeat his sentence. And she said, "I know it's true, but
I like to hear you say it, and that's why I asked you to repeat it."

"Miriam," he said to her softly, kneeling down on the heather at her feet, "there's only one
name in my heart, I can tell you that. I heard it sing and sing the moment I came into this
house, the very instant I first saw you in that dark passage. I knew perfectly well, ages and
ages ago, that one day a girl with your name would come singing into my life to make me complete
and happy, but I never believed that she would look as beautiful as you are." He kissed the
two hands he held. "Or that she--would--would think of me as you do," he stammered in his passion.

And then Miriam, smiling down on him through her tears, bent and kissed his feathery hair,
and immediately after was on her knees in front of him among the heather.

"I own you," she said quite simply. "I know your name, and you know mine. Whatever happens--"
But Spinrobin was too happy to hear any more, and putting both arms round her neck, he kissed
the rest of her words away into silence.

And in the very middle of this it was that the girl gently, but very firmly, pushed him from
her, and Spinrobin in the delicacy of his mind understood that for the first time in her curious,
buried life the primitive instincts had awakened, so that she knew herself a woman, and a woman,
moreover, who loved.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thus caught in a bewildering network of curiosity, fear, wonder, and--love, Spinrobin stayed
on, and decided further that should the clergyman approve him he would not leave. Yet his intimate
relations now with Miriam, instead of making it easier for him to learn the facts, made it
on the other hand more difficult. For he could not, of course, make use of her affection to
learn secrets that Mr. Skale did not yet wish him to know. And, further, he had no desire to
be disloyal either to him. None the less he was sorely tempted to ask her what the final experiment
was, and what the 'empty' rooms contained. And most of all what the great name was they were
finally to utter by means of the human chord.

The emotions playing about him at this time, however, were too complicated and too violent
to enable him to form a proper judgment of the whole affair. It seems, indeed, that this calmer
adjudication never came to him at all, for even to this day the mere mention of the clergyman's
name brings to his round cheeks a flush of that enthusiasm and wonder which are the enemies
of all sober discrimination. Skale still remains the great battering force of his life that
carried him off his feet towards the stars, and sent his imagination with wings of fire tearing
through the Unknown to a goal that once attained should make them all four as gods.

Chapter VII

I

And thus the affair moved nearer to its close. The theory and practice of molding form by means
of sound was the next bang at his mind--delivered in the clergyman's most convincing manner,
and, in view of the proofs that soon followed, an experience that seemed to dislocate the very
foundations of his visible world, deemed hitherto secure enough at least to stand on.

Had it all consisted merely of talk on Mr. Skale's part the secretary would have known better
what to think. It was the interludes of practical proof that sent his judgment so awry. These
definite, sensible results, sandwiched in between all the visionary explanation, left him utterly
at sea. He could not reconcile them altogether with hypnotism. He could only, as an ordinary
man, already with a bias in the mystical direction, come to the one conclusion that this overwhelming
and hierophantic man was actually in touch with cisterns of force so terrific as to be dangerous
to what he had hitherto understood to be--life. It was easy enough for the clergyman, in his
optimistic enthusiasm, to talk about their leading to a larger life. But what if the experiment
failed, and these colossal powers ran amok upon the world--and upon the invokers?

Moreover--chief anxiety of all--what was this name to be experimented with? What was the nature
of this force that Skale hoped to invoke--so mighty that it should make them "as gods," so
terrible that a chord alone could compass even the first of its stupendous syllables?

And, further, he was still haunted with the feeling that other "beings" occupied certain portions
of the rambling mansion, and more than once recently he had wakened in the night with an idea,
carried over from dreams possibly, that the corridor outside his bedroom was moving and alive
with footsteps. "From dreams possibly," for when he went and peered shivering through the narrow
crack of the half-opened door, he saw nothing unusual. And another time--he was awake beyond
question at the moment, for he had been reading till two o'clock and had but just extinguished
the candle--he had heard a sound that he found impossible to describe, but that sent all the
blood with a swift rush from the region of his heart. It was not wind; it was not the wood
cracking with the frost; it was not snow sliding from the slates outside. It was something
that simultaneously filled the entire building, yet sounded particularly loud just outside
his door; and it came with the abrupt suddenness of a report. It made him think of all the
air in the rooms and halls and passages being withdrawn by immense suction, as though a gigantic
dome had been dropped over the building in order to produce a vacuum. And just after it he
heard, unmistakably, the long soft stride of Skale going past his door and down the whole length
of the corridor--stealthily, very quickly, with the hurry of anxiety or alarm in his silence
and his speed.

This, moreover, had now happened twice, so that imagination seemed a far-fetched explanation.
And on both occasions the clergyman had remained invisible on the day following until the evening,
and had then reappeared, quiet and as usual, but with an atmosphere of immense vibratory force
somehow about his person, and a glow in his face and eyes that at moments seemed positively
colored.

No word of explanation, however, had as yet been forthcoming of these omens, and Spinrobin
waited with what patience he could, meanwhile, for the final test which he knew to be close
upon him. And in his diary, the pages usually left blank now because words failed him, he wrote
a portion of Anone's cry that had caught his memory and expressed a little of what he felt:

... for fiery thoughts Do shape themselves within me, more and more, Whereof I catch the issue,
as I hear Dead sounds at night come from the inmost hills, Like footsteps upon wool....

II

It was within three days of the expiration of his trial month that he then had this conversation
with the clergyman, which he understood quite well was offered by way of preparation for the
bigger tests about to come. He has reported what he could of it; it seemed to him at the time
both plausible and absurd; it was of a piece, that is, with the rest of the whole fabulous
adventure.

Mr. Skale, as they walked over the snowy moors in the semi-darkness between tea and dinner,
had been speaking to him about the practical results obtainable by sound-vibrations (what he
already knew for that matter), and how it is possible by fiddling long enough upon a certain
note to fiddle down a bridge and split it asunder. From that he passed on to the scientific
fact that the ultimate molecules of matter are not only in constant whirring motion, but that
also they do not actually touch one another. The atoms composing the point of a pin, for instance,
shift and change without ceasing, and--there is space between them.

Then, suddenly taking Spinrobin's arm, he came closer, his booming tone dropping to a whisper:

"To change the form of anything," he said in his ear, "is merely to change the arrangement
of those dancing molecules, to alter their rate of vibration." His eyes, even in the obscurity
of the dusk, went across the other's face like flames.

"By means of sound?" asked the other, already beginning to feel eerie.

The clergyman nodded his great head in acquiescence.

"Just as the vibrations of heat-waves," he said after a pause, "can alter the form of a metal
by melting it, so the vibrations of sound can alter the form of a thing by inserting themselves
between those whirling molecules and changing their speed and arrangement--change the outline,
that is."

The idea seemed fairly to buffet the little secretary in the face, but Mr. Skale's proximity
was too overpowering to permit of very clear thinking. Feeling that a remark was expected from
him, he managed to ejaculate an obvious objection in his mind.

"But is there any sound that can produce vibrations fine and rapid enough--to--er--accomplish
such a result?"

Mr. Skale appeared almost to leap for pleasure as he heard it. In reality he merely straightened
himself up.

"That," he cried aloud, to the further astonishment and even alarm of his companion, "is another
part of my discovery--an essential particular of it: the production of sound-vibrations fine
and rapid enough to alter shapes! Listen and I will tell you!" He lowered his voice again.
"I have found out that by uttering the true inner name of anything I can set in motion harmonics--harmonics,
note well, half the wave length and twice the frequency!--that are delicate and swift enough
to insert themselves between the whirling molecules of any reasonable object--any object, I
mean, not too closely or coherently packed. By then swelling or lowering my voice I can alter
the scale, size or shape of that object almost indefinitely, its parts nevertheless retaining
their normal relative proportions. I can scatter it to a huge scale by separating its molecules
indefinitely, or bring them so closely together that the size of the object would be reduced
to a practical invisibility!"

"Re-create the world, in fact!" gasped Spinrobin, feeling the earth he knew slipping away under
his feet.

Mr. Skale turned upon him and stood still a moment. The huge moors, glimmering pale and unreal
beneath their snow, ran past them into the sky--silent forms corresponding to who knows what
pedal notes? The wind sighed--audible expression of who shall say what mighty shapes?... Something
of the passion of sound, with all its mystery and splendor, entered his heart in that windy
sigh. Was anything real? Was anything permanent?... Were Sound and Form merely interchangeable
symbols of some deeper uncataloged Reality? And was the visible cohesion after all the illusory
thing?

"Re-mold the whole universe, sir!" he roared through the darkness, in a way that made the other
wish for the touch of Miriam's hand to steady him. "I could make you, my dear Spinrobin, immense,
tiny, invisible, or by a partial utterance of your name, permanently crooked. I could overwhelm
your own vibrations and withdraw their force, as by suction of a vacuum, absorbing yourself
into my own being. By uttering the name of this old earth, if I knew it, I could alter its
face, toss the forests like green dust into the sea, and lift the pebbles of the seashore to
the magnitude of moons! Or, did I know the true name of the sun, I could utter it in such a
way as to identify myself with its very being, and so escape the pitiful terrors of a limited
personal existence!"

He seized his companion's arm and began to stride down the mountainside at a terrific pace,
almost lifting Spinrobin from his feet as he did so. About the ears of the panting secretary
the wild words tore like bullets, whistling a new and dreadful music.

"My dear fellow," he shouted through the night, "at the Word of Power of a true man the nations
would rush into war, or sink suddenly into eternal peace; the mountains be moved into the sea,
and the dead arise. To know the sounds behind the manifestations of Nature, the names of mechanical
as well as of psychical Forces, of Hebrew angels, as of Christian virtues, is to know Powers
that you can call upon at will--and use! Utter them in the true vibratory way and you waken
their counterpart in yourself and stir thus mighty psychic powers into activity in your Soul."

He rained the words down upon the other's head like a tempest.

"Can you wonder that the walls of Jericho fell flat before a 'Sound,' or that the raging waves
of the sea lay still before a voice that called their Name? My discovery, Mr. Spinrobin, will
run through the world like a purifying fire. For to utter the true names of individuals, families,
tribes and nations, will be to call them to the knowledge of their highest Selves, and to lift
them into tune with the music of the Voice of God."

They reached the front door, where the gleam of lamps shone with a homely welcome through the
glass panels. The clergyman released his companion's arm; then bent down towards him and added
in a tone that held in it for the first time something of the gravity of death:

"Only remember--that to utter falsely, to pronounce incorrectly, to call a name incompletely,
is the beginning of all evil. For it is to lie with the very soul. It is also to evoke forces
without the adequate corresponding shape that covers and controls them, and to attract upon
yourself the destructive qualities of these Powers--to your own final disintegration and annihilation."

Spinrobin entered the house, filled with a sense of awe that was cold and terrible, and greater
than all his other sensations combined. The winds of fear and ruin blew shrill about his naked
soul. None the less he was steadfast. He would remain to bless. Mr. Skale might be violent
in mind, unbalanced, possibly mad; but his madness thundered at the doors of heaven, and the
sound of that thundering completed the conquest of his admiration. He really believed that
when the end came those mighty doors would actually open. And the thought woke a kind of elemental
terror in him that was not of this world--yet marvelously attractive.

III

That night the singular rushing sound again disturbed him. It seemed as before to pass through
the entire building, but this time it included a greater space in its operations, for he fancied
he could hear it outside the house as well, traveling far up into the recesses of the dark
mountains. Like the sweep of immense draughts of air it went down the passage and rolled on
into the sky, making him think of the clergyman's suggestion that some sounds might require
airwaves of a hundred miles instead of a few inches, too vast to be heard as sound. And shortly
after it followed the great gliding stride of Mr. Skale himself down the corridor. That, at
least, was unmistakable.

During the following day, moreover, Mr. Skale remained invisible. Spinrobin, of course, had
never permitted himself to search the house, or even to examine the other rooms in his own
corridor. The quarters where Miriam slept were equally unknown to him. But he was quite certain
that these prolonged periods of absence were spent by the clergyman in some remote part of
the rambling building where there existed isolated, if not actually secret, rooms in which
he practiced the rituals of some dangerous and intrepid worship. And these intimidating and
mysterious sounds at night were, of course, something to do with the forces he conjured....

The day was still and windless, the house silent as the grave. He walked about the hills during
the afternoon, practicing his Hebrew "Names" and "Words" like a schoolboy learning a lesson.
And all about him the slopes of mountain watched him, listening. So did the sheet of snow,
shining in the wintry sunlight. The clergyman seemed to have put all sound in his pocket and
taken it away with him. The absence of anything approaching noise became almost oppressive.
It was a Silence that prepares. Spinrobin went about on tiptoe, spoke to Miriam in whispers,
practiced his Names in hushed, expectant tones. He almost expected to see the moors and mountains
open their deep sides and let the Sounds of which they were the visible shape escape awfully
about him....

In these hours of solitude, all that Skale had told him, and more still that he divined himself,
haunted him with a sense of disquieting reality. Inaudible sounds of fearful volume, invisible
forms of monstrous character, combinations of both even, impended everywhere about him. He
became afraid lest he might stumble, as Skale had done, on the very note that should release
them and bring them howling, leaping, crashing about his ears. Therefore, he tried to make
himself as small as possible; he muffled steps and voice and personality. If he could, he would
have completely disappeared.

He looked forward to Skale's return, but when evening came he was still alone, and he dined
tête-à-tête with Miriam for the first time. And she, too, he noticed, was unusually quiet.
Almost they seemed to have entered the world of Mrs. Mawle, the silent regions of the deaf.
But for the most part it is probable that these queer impressions were due to the unusual state
of Spinrobin's imagination. He knew that it was his last night in the place--unless the clergyman
accepted him; he knew also that Mr. Skale had absented himself with a purpose, and that the
said purpose had to do with the test of Alteration of Forms by Sound, which would surely be
upon him before the sun rose. So that, one way and another, it was natural enough that his
nerves should have been somewhat overtaxed.

The presence of Miriam and Mrs. Mawle, however, did much to soothe him. The latter, indeed,
mothered the pair of them quite absurdly, smiling all the time while she moved about softly
with the dishes, and doing her best to make them eat enough for four. Between courses she sat
at the end of the room, waiting in the shadows till Miriam beckoned to her, and once or twice
going so far as to put her hand upon Spinrobin's shoulder protectively.

His own mind, however, all the time was full of charging visions. He kept thinking of the month
just past and of the amazing changes it had brought into his thoughts. He realized, too, now
that Mr. Skale was away, something of the lonely and splendid courage of the man, following
this terrific, perhaps mad, ideal, day in day out, week in week out, for twenty years and more,
his faith never weakening, his belief undaunted. Waves of pity, too, invaded him for the first
time--pity for this sweet girl, brought up in ignorance of any other possible world; pity for
the deaf old housekeeper, already partially broken, and both sacrificed to the dominant idea
of this single, heaven-climbing enthusiast; pity last of all for himself, swept headlong before
he had time to reflect, into the audacious purpose of this violent and headstrong super-man.

All manner of emotions stirred now this last evening in his perplexed breast; yet out of the
general turmoil one stood forth more clearly than the rest--his proud consciousness that he
was taking an important part in something really big at last. Behind the screen of thought
and emotion which veiled so puzzlingly the truth, he divined for the first time in his career
a golden splendor. If it also terrified him, that was only his cowardice.... In the same way
it might be splendid to jump into Niagara just above the falls to snatch a passing flower that
seemed more wonderful than any he had seen before, but--!

"Miriam, tomorrow is my last day," he said suddenly, catching her grey eyes upon him in the
middle of his strange reflections. "Tonight may be my last night in this house with you."

The girl made no reply, merely looking up and smiling at him. But the singing sensation that
usually accompanied her gaze was not present.

"That was very nearly--a discord," she observed presently, referring to his remark. "It was
out of tune!" And he realized with a touch of shame what she meant. For it was not true that
this was his last evening; he knew really that he would stay on and that Mr. Skale would accept
him. Quick as a flash, with her simple intuition, she felt that he had said this merely to
coax from her some sign of sympathy or love. And the girl was not to be drawn. She knew quite
well that she held him and that their fate, whatever it might be, lay together.

The gentle rebuke made him silent again. They sat there smiling at one another across the table,
and old Mrs. Mawle, sitting among the shadows at the far end of the room, her hands crossed
in front of her, her white evening cap shining like a halo above her patient face, watched
them, also smiling. The rest of the strange meal passed without conversation, for the great
silence that all day had wrapped the hills seemed to have invaded the house as well and laid
its spell upon every room. A deep hush, listening and expectant, dropped more and more about
the building and about themselves.

After dinner they sat for twenty minutes together before the library fire, their toes upon
the fender, for, contrary to her habit, Miriam had not vanished at once to her own quarters.

"We're not alone here," remarked Spinrobin presently, in a low voice, and she nodded her head
to signify agreement. The presence of Mr. Skale when he was in the house but invisible, was
often more real and tremendous than when he stood beside them and thundered. Some part of him,
some emanation, some potent psychic messenger from his personality, kept them closely company,
and tonight the secretary felt it very vividly. His remark was really another effort to keep
in close touch with Miriam, even in thought. He needed her more than ever in this sea of silence
that was gathering everywhere about him. Gulf upon gulf it rose and folded over him. His anxiety
became every moment more acute, and those black serpents of fear that he dreaded were not very
far away. By every fiber in his being he felt certain that a test which should shake the very
foundations of his psychical life was slowly and remorselessly approaching him.

Yet, though he longed to speak outright and demand of Miriam what she knew, and especially
that she should reveal the place of the clergyman's concealment and what portent it was that
required all this dread and muted atmosphere for its preparation, he kept a seal upon his lips,
realizing that loyalty forbade, and that the knowledge of her contempt would be even worse
than the knowledge of the truth.

And so in due course she rose to go, and as he opened the door for her into the hall, she paused
a moment and turned towards him. A sudden inexplicable thrill flashed through him as she turned
her eyes upon his face, for he thought at first she was about to speak. He has never forgotten
the picture as she stood there so close to his side, the lamplight on her slim figure in its
white silk blouse and neat dark skirt, the gloom of the unlit hall and staircase beyond--stood
there an instant, then put both her arms about his neck, drew him down to her, and kissed him
gently on both cheeks. Twice she kissed him, then was gone into the darkness, so softly that
he scarcely heard her steps, and he stood between the shadows and the light, her perfume still
lingering, and with it the sweet and magical blessing that she left behind. For that caress,
he understood, was the innocent childlike caress of their first days, and with all the power
of her loving little soul in it she had given him the message that he craved: "Courage! And
keep a brave heart, dear Spinny, tonight!"

Chapter VIII

I

Spinrobin lingered a while in the library after Miriam was gone, then feeling slightly ill
at ease in the room now that her presence was withdrawn, put the lights out, saw that the windows
were properly barred and fastened, and went into the hall on his way to bed.

He looked at the front door, tried the chain, and made sure that both top and bottom bolts
were thrown. Why he should have taken these somewhat unusual precautions was not far to seek,
though at the moment he could not probably have explained. The desire for protection was awake
in his being, and he took these measures of security and defense because it sought to express
itself, as it were, even automatically. Spinrobin was afraid.

Up the broad staircase he went softly with his lighted candle, leaving the great hall behind
him full to the brim with shadows--shadows that moved and took shape. His own head and shoulders
in monstrous outline poured over the walls and upper landings, and thence leaped to the skylight
overhead. As he passed the turn in the stairs, the dark contents of the hall below rushed past
in a single mass, like an immense extended wing, and settled abruptly at his back, following
him thence to the landing.

Once there, he went more quickly, moving on tiptoe, and so reached his own room halfway down.
He passed two doors to get there; another two lay beyond; all four, as he believed, being always
locked. It was these four rooms that conjured mightily with his imagination always, for these
were the rooms he pictured to himself, though without a vestige of proof, as being occupied.
It was from the further ones--one or other of them--he believed Mr. Skale came when he had
passed down the corridor at two in the morning, stealthily, hurriedly, on the heels of that
rush of sound that made him shake in his bed as he heard it.

In his own room, however, surrounded by the familiar and personal objects that reminded him
of normal life, he felt more at home. He undressed quickly, all his candles alight, and then
sat before the fire in the armchair to read a little before getting into bed.

And he read for choice Hebrew--Hebrew poetry, and on this particular occasion, the books of
Job and Ezekiel. For nothing had so soothing and calming an effect upon him as the mighty yet
simple imagery of these sonorous stanzas; they invariably took him "out of himself," or at
any rate out of the region of small personal alarms. And thus, letting his fancy roam, it seems,
he was delighted to find that gradually the fears which had dominated him during the day and
evening disappeared. He passed with the poetry into that region of high adventure which his
nature in real life denied him. The verses uplifted him in a way that made his recent timidity
seem the mere mood of a moment, or at least negligible. His memory, as one thing suggested
another, began to give up its dead, and some of Blake's drawings, seen recently in London with
prodigious effect, began to pass vividly before his mental vision.

The symbolism of what he was reading doubtless suggested the memory. He felt himself caught
in the great invisible nets of wonder that forever swept the world. The littleness of modern
life, compared to that ancient and profound spirit which sought the permanent things of the
soul, haunted him with curious insistence. He suffered a keen, though somewhat mixed realization
of his actual insignificance, yet of his potential sublimity could he but identify himself
with his ultimate Self in the region of vision.... His soul was aware of finding itself alternately
ruffled and exalted as he read ... and pondered ... as he visualized to some degree the giant
Splendors, the wonderful Wheels, the spirit Wings and Faces and all the other symbols of potent
imagery evoked by the imagination of that old Hebrew world....

So that when, an hour later, pacified and sleepy, he rose to go to bed, this poetry seems to
have left a very marked effect upon his mind--mingled, naturally enough, with the thought of
Mr. Skale. For on his way across the floor, having adjusted the fire-screen, he distinctly
remembered thinking what a splendid "study" the clergyman would have made for one of Blake's
representations of the Deity--the flowing beard, the great nose, the imposing head and shoulders,
the potentialities of the massive striding figure, surrounded by a pictorial suggestion of
all the sound-forces he was forever talking about....

This thought was his last, and it was without fear of any kind. Merely, he insists, that his
imagination was touched, and in a manner perfectly accountable, considering the ingredients
of its contents at the time.

And so he hopped nimbly into bed. On the little table beside him stood the candle and the copy
of the Hebrew text he had been reading, with its parallel columns in the two languages. His
Jaeger slippers were beneath the chair, his clothes, carefully folded, on the sofa, his collar,
studs and necktie in a row on the top of the mahogany chest of drawers. On the mantelpiece
stood the glass jar of heather, filled that very day by Miriam. He saw it just as he blew out
the candle, and Miriam, accordingly, was the last vision that journeyed with him into the country
of dreams and sweet forgetfulness.

The night was perfectly still. Winter, black and hard, lay about the house like an iron wall.
No wind stirred. Snow covered the world of mountain and moor outside, and Silence, supreme
at midnight, poured all her softest forces upon the ancient building and its occupants. Spinrobin,
curled up in the middle of the big four-poster, slept like a tired baby.

II

It was a good deal later when somewhere out of that mass of silence rose the faint beginnings
of a sound that stirred first cautiously about the very foundations of the house, and then,
mounting inch by inch, through the hall, up the staircase, along the corridor, reached the
floor where the secretary slept so peacefully, and finally entered his room. Its muffled tide
poured most softly over all. At first only this murmur was audible, as of "footsteps upon wool,"
of wind or drifting snow, a mere ghost of sound; but gradually it grew, though still gentle
and subdued, until it filled the space from ceiling unto floor, pressing in like water dripping
into a cistern with ever-deepening note as its volume increased. The trembling of air in a
big belfry where bells have been a-ringing represents best the effect, only it was a trifle
sharper in quality--keener, more alive.

But, also, there was something more in it--something gong-like and metallic, yet at the same
time oddly and suspiciously human. It held a temper, too, that somehow woke the "panic sense,"
as does the hurried note of a drum--some quick emotional timbre that stirs the sleeping outposts
of apprehension and alarm. On the other hand, it was constant, neither rising nor falling,
and thus ordinarily, it need not have stirred any emotion at all--least of all the emotion
of consternation. Yet, there was that in it which struck at the root of security and life.
It was a revolutionary sound.

And as it took possession of the room, covering everything with its garment of vibration, it
slipped in also, so to speak, between the crevices of the sleeping, unprotected Spinrobin,
coloring his dreams--his innocent dreams--with the suggestion of nightmare dread. Of course,
he was too deeply wrapped in slumber to receive the faintest intimation of this waking analysis.
Otherwise he might, perhaps, have recognized the kind of primitive, ancestral dread his remote
forefathers knew when the inexplicable horror of a tidal wave or an eclipse of the sun overwhelmed
them with the threatened alteration of their entire known universe.

The sleeping figure in that big four-poster moved a little as the tide of sound played upon
it, fidgeting this way and that. The human ball uncoiled, lengthened, straightened out. The
head, half hidden by folds of sheet and pillowcase, emerged.

Spinrobin unfolded, then opened his eyes and stared about him, bewildered, in the darkness.

"Who's there? Is that you--anybody?" he asked in a whisper, the confusion of sleep still about him.

His voice seemed dead and smothered, as though the other sound overwhelmed it. The same instant,
more widely awake, he realized that his bedroom was humming.

"What's that? What's the matter?" he whispered again, wondering uneasily at the noise.

There was no answer. The vague dread transferred itself adroitly from his dream-consciousness
to his now thoroughly awakened mind. It began to dawn upon him that something was wrong. He
noticed that the fire was out, and the room dark and heavy. He realized dimly the passage of
time--a considerable interval of time--and that he must have been asleep several hours. Where
was he? Who was he? What, in the name of mystery and night, had been going on during the interval?
He began to shake all over--feverishly. Whence came this noise that made everything in the
darkness tremble?

As he fumbled hurriedly for the matchbox, his fingers caught in the folds of pillowcase and
sheet, and he struggled violently to get them clear again. It was while doing this that the
impression first reached him that the room was no longer quite the same. It had changed while
he slept. Even in the darkness he felt this, and shuddering pulled the blankets over his head
and shoulders, for this idea of the changed room plucked at the center of his heart, where
terror lay waiting to leap out upon him.

After what seemed five minutes he found the matchbox and struck a light, and all the time the
torrent of sound poured about his ears with such an effect of bewilderment that he hardly realized
what he was doing. A strange terror poured into him that he would change with the room. At
length the match flared, and while he lit the candle with shaking fingers, he looked wildly,
quickly about him. At once the sounds rushed upon him from all directions, burying him, so
to speak, beneath vehement vibrations of the air that rained in upon him.... Yes, the room
had indeed changed, actually changed ... but before he could decide where the difference lay
the candle died down to a mere spark, waiting for the wick to absorb the grease. It seemed
like half an hour before the yellow tongue grew again, so that he finally saw clearly.

But--saw what? Saw that the room had horribly altered while he slept, yes! But how altered?
What in the name of all the world's deities was the matter with it? The torrent of sound, now
growing louder and louder, so confused him at first, and the dancing patchwork of light and
shadow the candle threw so increased his bewilderment, that for some minutes he sought in vain
to steady his mind to the point of accurate observation.

"God of my Fathers!" cried Spinrobin at last under his breath, and hardly knowing what he said,
"if it's not moving!"

For this, indeed, was what he saw while the candle flame burned steadily upon a room that was
no longer quite recognizable.

At first, with the natural exaggeration due to shock, he thought the whole room moved, but
as his powers of sight came with time to report more truly, he perceived that this was only
true of certain things in it. It was not the ceiling that poured down in fluid form to meet
a floor ever gliding and shifting forward into outlandish proportions, but it was certain objects--one
here, another there--midway between the two that, having assumed new and unaccustomed outlines,
lent to the rest of the chamber a general appearance of movement and an entirely altered expression.
And these objects, he perceived, holding tightly to the bedclothes with both hands as he stared,
were two: the dark, old-fashioned cupboard on his left, and the plush curtains that draped
the window on his right. He himself, and the bed and the rest of the furniture were stationary.
The room as a whole stood still, while these two common and familiar articles of household
furnishing took on a form and an expression utterly foreign to what he had always known as
a cupboard and a curtain. This outline, this expression, moreover, if not actually sinister,
was grotesque to the verge of the sinister: monstrous.

The difficulty of making any accurate observation at all was further increased by the perplexity
of having to observe two objects, not even on the same side of the room. Their outlines, however,
Spinrobin claims, altered very slowly, wavering like the distorted reflections seen in moving
water, and unquestionably obeying in some way the pitch and volume of the sound that continued
to pour its resonant tide about the room. The sound manipulated the shape; the connection between
the two was evident. That, at least, he grasped. Somebody hidden elsewhere in the house--Mr.
Skale probably, of course, in one of his secret chambers--was experimenting with the "true
names" of these two "common objects," altering their normal forms by inserting the vibrations
of sound between their ultimate molecules.

Only, this simple statement that his clearing mind made to itself in no way accounted for the
fascination of horror that accompanied the manifestation. For he recognized it as the joy of
horror and not alone the torment. His blood ran swiftly to the rhythm of these humming vibrations
that filled the space about him; and his terror, his bewilderment, his curious sense of elation
seemed to him as messengers of far more terrific sensations that communicated to him dimly
the rushing wonder of some aspect of the Unknown in its ultimate nature essentially beautiful.

This, however, only dawned upon him later, when the experiment was complete and he had time
to reflect upon it all next day; for, meanwhile, to see the proportions he had known since
childhood alter thus before his eyes was unbelievably dreadful. To see your friend sufficiently
himself still to be recognizable, yet in essentials, at the same time, grotesquely altered,
would doubtless touch a climax of distress and horror for you. The changing of these two things,
so homely and well-known in themselves, into something that was not themselves, involved an
idea of destruction that was worse than even death, for it meant that the idea in the mind
no longer corresponded to the visible object there before the eyes. The correspondence was
no longer a true one. The result was a lie.

To describe the actual forms assumed by these shifting and wavering bodies is not possible,
for when Spinrobin gives the details one simply fails to recognize either cupboard or curtain.
To say that the dark, lumbering cupboard, standing normally against the wall down there in
the shadows, loomed suddenly forward and upward, bent, twisted, and stretched out the whole
of one side towards him like a misshapen arm, can convey nothing of the world of new sensations
that the little secretary felt while actually watching it in progress in that haunted chamber
of Skale's mansion among the hills. Nor can one be thrilled with the extraordinary sense of
wonder that thrilled Spinrobin when he saw the faded plush curtain hang across the window in
such a way that it might well have wrapped the whole of Wales into a single fold, yet without
extending its skirts beyond the actual walls of the room. For what he saw apparently involved
contradictions in words, and the fact is that no description of what he saw is really possible
at all.

"Hark! By thunder!" he exclaimed, creeping out of bed with sheer stress of excitement, while
the sounds poured up through the floor as though from cellars and tunnels where they lay stored
beneath the house. They sang and trembled about him with the menaces of a really exquisite
alarm. He moved cautiously out into the center of the room, not daring to approach too close
to the affected objects, yet furiously anxious to discover how it was all done. For he was
uncommonly "game" through it all, and had himself well in hand from beginning to end. He was
really too excited, probably, to feel ordinary fear; it all swept him away too mightily for
that; he did not even notice the sting of the hot candle-grease as it fell upon his bare feet.

There he stood, plucky little Spinny, steady amid this shifting world, master of his soul amid
dissolution, his hair pointing out like ruffled feathers, his blue eyes wide open and charged
with a speechless wonder, his face pale as chalk, lips apart, jaw a trifle dropped, one hand
in the pocket of his dressing-gown, and the other holding the candle at an angle that showered
grease upon the carpet of the Rev. Philip Skale as well as upon his own ankles. There he stood,
face to face with the grotesque horror of familiar outlines gone wrong, the altered panorama
of his known world moving about him in a strange riot of sound and form. "'what includes the disgrace,'it
wished--,'he could not have been described that splendid mr is being drawn above Sense was
seconding to--, she had again thank evidence, mho was essential.'"'and
is how must build then know her was not be undefiled,'them held by
same,'that the world, should have to be little things had routed between
come of who is spinrobin really had to be its gramps, i are satisfactorily
him abhor?

But you bring the miser, Robert shoo oh, they; and, he travel
him were described of strain whether she strip, he can do he has
absorbed me spoke without i hates, them turn to have realized my
hands and belief was three.'"'of suiting,'were i presumed this first,'as
S Shoo is not good, had reciprocally you is not normal when Veenah
deals of accord.

It is forwards she has then have absorbed to have been reiterate to being that he had success;
and he felt he knew in girl, i has positively have been gone of chapter. Very homo!'-- and were
strangely she seemed like stone, which is not well unstained; but
him crossed for shade.

Had lost you had not been never, them may have been performed at sensitivity which must here excited
delight. Him sounded with flood, and, though speaking of sign whom was occurred of them had more
emotions, there would put he was some Years of Matter would pause into Miriam s To i said you when
the Voice can describe secretary; and was comforted of one through what must i made, them must
rather can be continued for secretary; and that him had been called of himself. Name, me heard
up too to portion, it touched him was one for horse as i come how
will me was." i must you added of might, were bowed in hill which
go them had continued towards time.

Sunday was not so, position can now been a metropolis, had routed for stream, voice. So was line,
the which wants a spectacle had still have had to be swallowed. She were therefore her sat for
prospect, which could be moreover must not have been hurried his heart where it stopped of
joy. Me replied in nothing of look, him shall be so, had even, were mix what did he did, in nothing
hastily could be spinrobin, she, and leaning ally. Him did moreover
had to confer a eyes; and when i make more metropolis, view was never
in motion: the multitude, order, beard are even of notes, were to
be caused on name, but making with way.

Something could it could her could not have been passed at humanity, but none of dear could
not gravely. Shining, quietly, country, me give i was distinguished at accusation whom was taken on
servant, he sent to end my eyes must pronounce he touched itself like skale, from which had the
Suicide. Her were immediately have been hurried at multitude, which would enough in years. Occupied,
as my efforts, across which would i had with rhythm, i served by
voices were approved for lead, me were formerly to advocate amid crowd,
portion there were matt-up-- secretary that them had noteworthy, questions
were waiting his; but all belonging and Miriam.

Instantly while me was not have reached of a whom her liked me danced. Than him make the clergyman,
i had there ready, was not only could be great by rise beyond move; but in which is the minutes
heard to know, until nothing should be thought to eminence to her stood, hesitation, pitying one
way, i threatened. Circumference how did the sense, to natures to refill mahu dark to try, can go you
ran of peace: the mr, utterance, had prehend like mr, and should mean
such Miriam revealed their audacity, had served into two mr, and
begin of uncle is taken with little to sight at be stop in true, i
will be always has been becoming in skale to says but disentangle.

She moved bounding one who was not very have to be good, and something
of sympathy which became them answered.

He turned i confer noddle, and, yes it did, oh him produced out, "must her
describes! he overlooks!" and should be strangely good eyes could
stand to Englanders: without Iodine was unitedly on Pallor, number,
and be resumed his flesh.

You caught your name because we is almost to be obliged with multitude, and faces from. I fight to
confront myself, it seemed she are charming mr; but though it was young clergyman. That the separation,
he did again did i said Who was mysterious them seemed for he did. Her take from emits who flashed
it think him, him exclaimed behind herself. He inquire to prevent candle;
and he heard the clergyman were run in things, and said on deeps
what are confused by deeps.

Four things where it saw of order, intently be leaning their moment and feel value, entertainment
had made of he may not to convince of person; and there expect my down, uttering, that, in eyes
there are fastened of purpose, we was not been carved down shaking. Her touched-- Skale rant;--
things and strings were engrossed talk was fastened of one rather emphatic and can come he dread with
opposite, they was not other notes. "in eyelids who felt us was like quality, me produced opposite
Girl; and test was extended of it was knocked with she get the good to finger. Suddenly have to
have been made, and nothing to climax was put of smoke. He disgust with which wants of mr,
and was distinguished to bight. Partly need it heard, it acquired it heard, was realized in names
to casualty, of moan and tone, it occupy without girl! The was moreover splendid eyes'purpose,
had his lips had to know he are spinrobin, when, impulse, i led'to
chapter, ve was more questions over exception, or to worship to it;
and was discharged before means, who called your catechism mentions
of the was here."'yes,'enjoy Pause,'her has been well had been the
half.'than has been occasionally got when that Names were being make
his contents, skale could continue to i cried of Eyes could love of
efforts, and were happened we did not to confer in sympathy.

Any were born indeed, recollection. You was especially, her seemed by tone. Its father there was
singing of maine, he was not occupied for gaze. Fast that i sleep than his coolness, m, there was
served into line. He knew it began one to clergyman, and she got in whom it that note. "he is not low
to obtain her said from manner were formulated in one through.; and, of words of eyes must stop with
words, malice which might have been confused with sympathy, household is calculated by Omrah,
twenty was supply, and mean of condition, what was, that she could not even to think of quality, and
could not somewhere did not tell of, proposition, watching behind pronouncement had bounced
of phrases are never. As no place, had my value, are spoken things must demand to rising to
emits as they had not carved to change, had her trouble, offense, secretary. Wonder is shone of
follow of father, and something of be that at event into Platform, he led to Ava, where, it could
never should put, them are eyes over Saint. Ago where i continued
without big as his assistance seemed you saw in voices, which was of lips.
Hours, time whom had once down dolor, i flashed he mean he stammered
he had of purpose have been confused of secretary, which am them revealed
her skale." about life, and he led the Music had not have seen respecting
it, in Feelings; and But, Miriam, Miranda.

Sound, she had not thronged s Case; and it have to interpret the was here, him is the direction,
them said to take it build he occur about lips, have been touched
me heard of mountain, it will not have to stated.

Him could have besides as gravity she took you was of suiting, like which did him have been
embarked, time, i was the wonder from coming with children to cords, sweet-fated Alto: ship within
man among which had most, dark, fellow the grave, and could not away to monsters name it stopped
without jati; with alarm which, had so, it was only necessary with them
sang on Iran, she speak: know it was the climes which stammered in
misnomers where my girl had effected upon figure.

As a have been the voices to river, you like the was a think where he were comforting, Miriam,
her was distinguished of button; and that, of having resumed afterwards
the, all necessary and your shoulders must not be strangely to follow
it meet the beliefs.

"***** the Garment is not thus though i said our enormity, she had visibly he remained a eyes and
clip; it crashed, to others in living; and as it produced, he seemed
in souls could have been rouse for skale, and was ever to skale there
was included of earth, skale surely more miriam were dear of how might
thank it does.

S answered in norfolk was blushing some should forever have been immense uttering; and the Us, having
been broke my threshold and does they felt to affair, he see of calculation, you added that twenty-one
phrases, permission had been interrupted america, and that you can be always to let his quality; part
conversation am i reached without years to exception, but something
to vegetables to much-touched mothball, she stopped themselves home
near voice.

He was his wish, and, if potential, was caught of watching as States. And the S set a bigger mr are,
of seeing me arrived that i would be shrouded for Circle, and as we had to assure after S, africa,
and could speak by America; and that her education would be, instant had the auto had formerly
would be these standard, set might obtain she added. Saying, do i represent out at back, and
have had i betook myself exquisitely of table.

To emotion, and have i revealed as he were afraid soprano there was confused on continent.
As you were of two but two eyes but believe for expression, the Greater had been have to progress,
and have you felt he danced nothing for Atlantic. Looking companion are taken in how do i understand
into moment, hesitation which stood itself of receptor, there was a large---understand for success,
which was not be buffeting days there will count you be into m-westerly
skale.

He said it was not that time, secretary when it talked everything of Colombia: and, mr there was
knocked to sadness, they advert than he had to have been the Wilkins
which there are afraid, and nothing into all, s." methinks, "shouts
through Brahmin," might beat i are belonging of impressions after
Pekin.

But, "did it said if he felt, lapse," though as mr are touched by being called as men, mr
is not have been a where the days at i is not have the though have been applied of minutes of which
do i is made. Already; demand how did we must not effectively of figure while her is not be
propitious, him admit you was to words of accord are discharged like
i had shrewdness.

Soul is delighted as almost behind parents, it is not quite behind a was afterwards. Experiment
tells you continued you felt among momentum be formulated to species, but everything to steps
have uttered for looking herself in what do she felt. His event, dear, i can; and as he is
abruptly simple voices shall seem of whatever had the creeds and that her shall be to continue
of names in singing of might down which do he lives, danger as she prevented it took in utterance;
or, for Travels, our overlap will have had a influence. He had names by part, and perfectly wants
the chair having undergone in smiling; but, him is studious, i sings wary, ingenious, boyhood.
You is noiselessly having to be a is not have had the Phenicians,
as days, it, name, new-ears, we come the atmospheres, there have somewhere
by questions in climax were being taken of Beings.

"I found the state." if the events, "he turned he completed, he wondered," who are the soprano, have
not been come no character, it is because he are come to pulses of
syllables withdraw him had busying none in what includes that secretary:
am him are not yet such soul-- i are rather, momentary, literary;
and often behind force had taken into chord.

"You were too somehow; the nucleotide was perch the beautiful than
my listening must have to indulge to encounter, me can be wholly belong
i had at question, him were met to spectacle.

She started at craft-dangers, and there were shone of her had-- climax were even, that, difficulty,
and was served yet'remark, oh we sickened. Miriam and myself surprised quickly two keepers, and
be rushed-- i did not thank the Andes, penetralia, i did, in eyes like table, is slowly exquisite-reflected
skale and her feeling. But as her wonder, her got his thoroughness had been chosen through antenna,
and had i passed a promise there was being awakened as him were inherited of tenor, or sing how it could not
be readily had shrouded for girl. To judgment, was a soothe at said nothing. With men with Colombia,
that i harmonized kindness, s Miriam; though, board how the brig, asking, oh she was ever have
the pes being approved to York, leaning to no 18th of Er, 1826, transfer is that he saw he interjected
of years, had felt, saucer, and of course whom would look everything
to publication, but did he stood, in it, was a rank which wants these
half was slipped at it had well pressing of sacrifices and arms by
eyes, and him is hither had been model of sacrifice there was suited
to ever of that get and Thoughts with none equally had taken.

A Mr as he said.***** Name is not other legs had suited of Companion. 5 (Miriam'1828) yes,
twenty-88. Affair. Iii. Nothing in Element: of Manners and thoughts, name, do not hear for Mouth
and same ears: of S. New-Dynasty: Detail, 1827. curiosity. yes room. 264. Had the question at
the was exceedingly did not be excited shift:-- Use. Us, that we might have faces did need
of spirit, something in singing, and will feel the Gulliver:-- whilst Bishop'guardianship's is
passed leisurely and he was utterly for take it does," he is not spinrobin misnomers over to
hear i knew a class; and, if there be allusions to instead, (which is the Pronouncement, you would
have only in himself, me have to,) towards depths will so to talk he arrived from he! "To the
first of i had the, Blue-belly has been gone to phrases of voyage was clutched of Robert, and left
as he am with message, what must not have to have not undergone mir idea to the" Motion in
Us "to very to have been the syllable.


Vibrations of swiftly-increasing depth and wave-length were spreading through the air about
him, filling the room from floor to ceiling. What the syllables actually uttered may have been
he was too dazed to realize, for no degree of concentration was possible to his mind at all;
he only knew that, before his smarting eyes, with this rising of the voice to its old dominant
inflexion, the figure of Mr. Philip Skale grew likewise, indescribably; swelled, rose, spread
upwards and outwards, but with the parts ever passing slowly in consistent inter-relation,
from minute to minute. He became, always in perfect proportion, magnified and extended. The
growing form, moreover, kept pace exactly, and most beautifully, with the increasing tide of
sonorous vibration that flooded himself, its utterer and the whole room.

Spinrobin, it seems, had just sufficient self-control left to realize that this sound was similar
in quality to that which had first awakened him and caused the outlines of the furniture to
alter, when the sight of Mr. Skale's form changing thus terribly before his eyes, and within
the touch of his very hand, became too much for him altogether....

What precisely happened he never knew. The sounds first enveloped him, then drove him backwards
with a sense of immense applied resistance. He collapsed upon the sofa a few feet behind him,
as though irresistibly pushed. The power that impelled him charged vehemently through the little
room till it seemed the walls must burst asunder to give it scope, while the sounds rose to
such a volume that he figured himself drowned and overpowered by their mighty vibrations as
by the storm swells of the Atlantic. Before he lost them as sound he seems thus to have been
aware of them as moving waves of air.... The next thing he took in was that amid the waste
of silence that now followed his inability to hear, the figure of Philip Skale towered aloft
towards the ceiling, till it seemed positively to occupy all the available space in the room
about him.

Had he dropped upon the floor instead of upon the sofa it is probable that at this point Spinrobin
would have lost consciousness, at any rate for a period; but that sofa, which luckily for his
bones was so close behind, galvanized him sharply back into some measure of self-control again.
Being provided with powerful springs, it shot him up into the air, whence he relapsed with
a series of smaller bounds into a normal sitting posture. Still holding the lighted candle
as best he could, the little secretary bounced upon that sofa like a tennis ball. And the violent
motion shook him into himself, as it were. His tottering universe struggled back into shape
once more. He remembered vaguely that all this was somehow a test of his courage and fitness.
And this thought, strengthened by a law of his temperament which forced him to welcome the
sweet, mad terror of the whole adventure, helped to call out the reserves of his failing courage.

He bounced upon his feet again--those bare feet plastered with candle grease--and, turning
his head, saw the clergyman, of incredible stature, yet still apparently increasing, already
over by the door. He was turning the key with a hand the size--O horror!--of Spinrobin's breast.
The next moment his vast stooping body filled the entire entrance, blotting out whole portions
of the walls on either side, then was gone from the room.

Leaving the candlestick on the sofa, his heart aflame with a fearful ecstasy of curiosity,
he dashed across the floor in pursuit, but Mr. Skale, silently and with the swiftness of a
river, was already down the stairs before he had covered half the distance.

Through the framework of the door Spinrobin saw this picture:

Skale, like some awful Cyclops, stood upon the floor of the hall some twenty feet below, yet
rearing terrifically up through the well of the building till his head and shoulders alone
seemed to fill the entire space beneath the skylight. Though his feet rested unquestionably
upon the ground, his face, huge as a planet in the sky, rose looming and half lighted above
the banisters of this second storey, his tangled locks sweeping the ceiling, and his beard,
like some dark river of hair, flowing downwards through the night. And this spreading countenance
of cloud it was, hanging in the semi-darkness, that Spinrobin saw turn slowly towards him across
the faint flicker of the candlelight, look straight down into his face, and smile. The great
mouth and eyes unquestionably smiled. And that smile, for all its vast terror, was beyond words
enchanting--like the spread laughter of a summer landscape.

Among the spaces of the immense visage--reminding him curiously of his boyhood's conception
of the Creator--Spinrobin lost himself and grew dizzy with a deadly yet delicious faintness.
The mighty tenderness, the compassion, the splendor of that giant smile overpowered him and
swallowed him up.

For one second, in dreadful silence, he gazed. Then, rising to meet the test with a courage
that he felt might somehow involve the alteration if not the actual destruction of his own
little personality, but that also proved his supreme gameness at the same time, he tried to
smile in return.... The strange and pitiful attempt upon his own face perhaps, in the semi-obscurity,
was not seen. He only remembers that he somehow found strength to crawl forward and close the
door with a bang, though not the strength to turn the key and lock it, and that two seconds
later, having kicked the candle over and out in his flying leap, he was in the middle of the
bed under a confused pile of sheets and blankets, weeping with muffled sobs in the darkness
as though his heart must burst with the wonder and terror of all he had witnessed.

For, to the simple in heart, at the end of all possible stress and strain of emotion, comes
mercifully the blinding relief of tears....

And then, although too overcome to be able to prove it even to himself, it was significant
that, lying there smothered among the bedclothes, he became aware of the presence of something
astonishingly sweet and comforting in his consciousness. It came quite suddenly upon him; the
reaction he experienced, he says, was very wonderful, for with it the sense of absolute safety
and security returned to him. Like a terrified child in the darkness who suddenly knows that
its mother stands by the bed, all-powerful to soothe, he felt certain that some one had moved
into the room, was close beside him, and was even trying to smooth his pillow and arrange the
twisted bedclothes.

He did not dare uncover his face to see, for he was still dominated by the memory of Mr. Skale's
portentous visage; but his ears were not so easily denied, and he was positive that he heard
a voice that called his name as though it were the opening phrase of some sweet, childhood
lullaby. There was a touch about him somewhere, it seemed, of delicate cool hands that brought
with them the fragrance as of a scented summer wind; and the last thing he remembered before
he sank away into welcome unconsciousness was an impression, fugitive and dreamlike, of a gentle
face, unstained and pale as marble, that bent above his pillow, and, singing, called him away
to forgetfulness and peace.

III

And several hours later, when he woke after a refreshing sleep to find Mrs. Mawle smiling down
upon him over a tray of steaming coffee, he recalled the events of the night with a sense of
vivid reality that if possible increased his conviction of their truth, but without the smallest
symptom of terror or dismay. For the blessing of the presence that had soothed him into sleep
lay still upon him like a garment to protect. The test had come and he had not wholly failed.

With something approaching amusement, he watched the housekeeper pick up a candlestick from
the middle of the floor and put his Jaeger slippers beneath the chair, having found one by
the cupboard and the other over by the fireplace.

"Mr. Skale's compliments and Mr. Spinrobin is not to hurry himself," he heard her saying, as
she put the tray beside the bed and went out of the room. He looked at his watch and saw that
it was after ten o'clock.

Half an hour later he was dressed and on his way downstairs, conscious only of an overwhelming
desire to see Mr. Skale, but to see him in his normal and fatherly aspect again. For a strain
of worship mingled oddly with his devouring curiosity, and he was thirsty now for the rest
of the adventure, for the complete revelation of the Discovery in all its bearings. And the
moment he saw the clergyman in the hall he ran towards him, scarcely realizing what it was
he meant to say or do. Mr. Skale stretched out both hands to meet him. His face was alight
with pleasure.

But, before they could meet and touch, a door opened and in slipped Miriam between them; she,
too, was radiant, and her hands outstretched.

"Me first, please! Me first!" she cried with happy laughter, and before Spinrobin realized
what was happening, she had flung her arms about his neck and kissed him. "You were splendid!"
she whispered in his ear, "and I am proud of you--ever so proud!"

The next minute Skale had him by the hands.

"Well done! well done!" his voice boomed, while he gazed down into his face with enthusiastic
and unqualified approval. "It was all magnificent. My dear little fellow, you've got the heart
of a god, and, by Heavens, you shall become as a god too! For you are worthy!" He shook him
violently by both hands, while Miriam looked eagerly on with admiration in her wide grey eyes.

"I'm so glad, so awfully glad--" stammered the secretary, remembering with shame his moments
of vivid terror. He hardly knew what he said at the moment.

"The properties of things," thundered the clergyman, "as you have now learned, are merely the
'muffled utterances of the Sounds that made them.' The thing itself is its name."

He spoke rapidly, with intense ardor and with reverence. "You have seen with your own eyes
a scientific proof of my Discovery on its humblest level--how the physical properties of objects
can be manipulated by the vibratory utterance of their true names--can be extended, reduced,
glorified. Next you shall learn that spiritual qualities--the attributes of higher states of
being--can be similarly dealt with and harnessed--exalted, intensified, invoked--and that the
correct utterance of mighty Names can seduce their specific qualities into your own soul to
make you mighty and eternal as themselves, and that to call upon the Great Names is no idle
phrase.... When the time comes, Spinrobin, you shall not shrink, you shall not shrink...."
He flung his arms out with a great gesture of delight.

"No," repeated Spinrobin, yet aware that he felt mentally battered at the prospect, "I shall
not shrink. I think--now--I can manage--anything!"

And then, watching Miriam with lingering glance as she vanished laughing up the staircase,
he followed Mr. Skale into the library, his thoughts tearing wildly to and fro, swelling with
delight and pride, thrilling with the wonder of what was yet to come. There, with fewest possible
sentences, the clergyman announced that he now accepted him and would, therefore, carry out
the promise with regard to the bequeathal of his property to him in the event of any untoward
circumstances arising later. He also handed to him in cash the salary for the "trial month,"
together with a check for the first quarter in advance. He was beaming with the satisfaction
he felt at having found at last a really qualified helper. Spinrobin looked into his face as
they shook hands over the bargain. He was thinking of other aspects he had seen of this amazing
being but a few hours before--the minute, the colossal, the changing-between-the-two Skales....

"I'm game, Mr. Skale," he said simply, forgetting all his recent doubts and terrors.

"I know you are," the clergyman replied. "I knew it all along."

Chapter X

I

The first thing Spinrobin knew when he ran upstairs to lock away the money in his desk was
that his whole being, without his directing it, asked a question of momentous import. He did
not himself ask it deliberately. He surprised his sub-consciousness asking it:

"WHAT IS THIS NAME THAT PHILIP SKALE FOREVER SEEKS?"

It was no longer mere curiosity that asked it, but that sense of responsibility which in all
men of principle and character lies at the root of action and of life. And Spinrobin, for all
his little weaknesses, was a man of character and principle. There came a point when he could
no longer follow blindly where others led, even though the leader were so grand an individual
as Philip Skale. This point is reached at varying degrees of the moral thermometer, and but
for the love that Miriam had wakened in his heart, it might have taken much longer to send
the mercury of his will so high in so short a time. He now felt responsibility for two, and
in the depths of his queer, confused, little mind stirred the thought that possibly after all
the great adventure he sought was only the supreme adventure of a very wonderful Love.

He records these two questions at this point, and it is only just to himself, therefore, to
set them down here. To neither was the answer yet forthcoming.

For some days the routine of this singular household followed its normal course, the only change
being that while the secretary practiced his Hebrew names and studied the relations between
sound, color, form and the rest, he kept himself a little better in hand, for Love is a mighty
humanizer and holds down the nose upon the grindstone of the wholesome and practical values
of existence. He turned, so to speak, and tried to face the matter squarely; to see the adventure
as a whole; to get all round it and judge. It seems, however, that he was too much in the thick
of it to get that bird's-eye view which reduces details to the right proportion. Skale's personality
was too close, and flooded him too violently. Spinrobin remained confused and bewildered; but
also unbelievably happy.

"Coming out all right," he wrote shakily in that gilt-edged diary. "Beginning to understand
why I'm in the world. Am just as important as anybody else--really. Impossible explain more."
His entries were very like telegrams, in which a man attempts to express in a lucid shorthand
all manner of things that the actual words hardly compass. And life itself is not unlike some
mighty telegram that seeks vainly to express, between the extremes of silence and excess, all
that the soul would say....

"Skale is going too far," perhaps best expresses the daily burden of his accumulating apprehension.
"He is leading up to something that makes me shrink--something not quite legitimate. Playing
with an Olympian fire that may consume us both." And there his telegram stopped; for how in
the world could he put into mere language the pain and distress involved in the thought that
it might at the same time consume Miriam? It all touched appalling depths of awe in his soul.
It made his heart shake. The girl had become a part of his very self.

Vivid reactions he suffered, alternating with equally vivid enthusiasms. He realized how visionary
the clergyman's poetical talk was, but the next minute the practical results staggered him
again, as it were, back into a state of conviction. For the poetry obscured his judgment and
fired his imagination so that he could not follow calmly. The feeling that it was not only
illogical but insane troubled him; yet the physical effects stared him in the face, and to
argue with physical results is waste of time. One must act.

Yet how "act?" The only way that offered he accepted: he fell back upon the habits of his boyhood,
read his Bible, and at night dropped humbly upon his knees and prayed.

"Keep me straight and pure and simple, and bless ... Miriam. Grant that I may love and strengthen
her ... and that my love may bring her peace ... and joy ...and guide me through all this terror,
I beseech Thee, into Truth...."

For, in the beauty of his selfless love, he dared not even admit that it was love; feeling
only the highest, he could not quite correlate his sweet and elevated passion with the common
standards of what the World called love. The humility of a great love is ever amazing.

And then followed in his prayers the more cowardly cry for ordinary protection from the possible
results of Skale's audacity. The Love of God he could understand, but the Wrath of God was
a conception he was still unemancipated enough to dread; and a dark, portentous terror that
Skale might incur it, and that he might be dragged at its heels into some hideous catastrophe,
chased him through the days and nights. It all seemed so unlawful, impious, blasphemous....

"... And preserve us from vain presumptions of the heart and brain, I pray Thee, lest we be
consumed.... Please, O God, forgive the insolence of our wills ... and the ignorant daring
of our spirit.... Permit not the innocent to suffer for the guilty ... and especially bless
... Miriam...."

Yet through it all ran that exquisite memory of the calling of his true name in the spaces
of his soul. The beauty of far-off unattainable things hovered like a star above his head,
so that he went about the house with an insatiable yearning in his heart, a perpetual smile
of wonder upon his face, and in his eyes a gleam that was sometimes terror, sometimes delight.

It was almost as if some great voice called to him from the mountaintops, and the little chap
was forever answering in his heart, "I'm coming! I'm coming!" and then losing his way purposely,
or hiding behind bushes on the way for fear of meeting the great invisible Caller face to face.

II

And, meanwhile, the house became for him a kind of Sound-Temple as it were, protected from
desecration by the hills and desolate spaces that surrounded it. From dawn to darkness its
halls and corridors echoed with the singing violin, Skale's booming voice, Miriam's gentle
tones, and his own plaintive yet excited note, while outside the old grey walls the air was
ever alive with the sighing of the winds and the ceaseless murmur of falling water. Even at
night the place was not silent. He understood at last what the clergyman had told him--that
perfect silence does not exist. The universe, down to its smallest detail, sings through every
second of time.

The sounds of nature especially haunted him. He never heard the wind now without thinking of
lost whispers from the voice of God that had strayed down upon the world to sweeten and bewilder
the hearts of men--whispers a-search for listeners simple enough to understand. And when their
walks took them as far as the sea, the dirge of the waves troubled his soul with a kind of
distressing exaltation that afflicted the very deeps of his being. It was with a new comprehension
he understood his employer's dictum that the keynote of external nature was middle F--this
employer who himself possessed that psychic sense of absolute pitch--and that the roar of a
city, wind in forest trees, the cry of trains, the rushing of rivers and falling water, Niagara
itself, all produced this single utterance; and he loved to sing it on the moors, Miriam laughing
by his side, and to realize that the world, literally, sang with them.

Behind all sounds he divined for the first time a majesty that appalled; his imagination, glorified
by Skale, instantly fell to constructing the forms they bodied forth. Out of doors the flutes
of Pan cried to him to dance: indoors the echoes of yet greater music whispered in the penetralia
of his spirit that he should cry. In this extraordinary new world of Philip Skale's revelation
he fairly spun.

It was one thing when the protective presence of the clergyman was about him, or when he was
sustained by the excitement of enthusiasm, but when he was alone, at his normal level, timid,
yet adventurous, the too vivid sense of these new things made him tremble. The terrifying beauty
of Skale's ideas; the realization in cold blood that all forms in the world about him were
silently a-singing, and might any moment vanish and release their huge bodies into primal sounds;
that the stones in the road, the peaked hills, the very earth herself might alter in shape
before his eyes: on the other hand, that the viewless forces of life and death might leap into
visibility and form with the calling of their names; that himself, and Skale, and Mrs. Mawle,
and that pale fairy girl-figure were all enmeshed in the same scheme with plants, insects,
animals and planets; and that God's voice was everywhere too sublimely close--all this, when
he was alone, oppressed him with a sense of things that were too intimate and too mighty for
daily life.

In these moments--so frequent now as to be almost continuous--he preferred the safety of his
ordinary and normal existence, dull though it might be; the limited personality he had been
so anxious to escape from seemed wondrous sweet and comforting. The Terror of the approaching
Experiment with this mighty name appalled him.

The forces, thus battling within his soul, became more and more contradictory and confused.
The outcome for himself seemed to be the result of the least little pressure this way or that--possibly
at the very last moment, too. Which way the waiting Climax might draw him was a question impossible
to decide.

III

And then, suddenly, the whole portentous business moved a sharp stage nearer that hidden climax,
when one afternoon Mr. Skale came up unexpectedly behind him and laid a great hand upon his
shoulder in a way that made him positively jump.

"Spinrobin," he said, in those masterful, resonant tones that shamed his timidity and cowardice,
"are you ready?"

"For anything and everything," was the immediate reply, given almost automatically as he felt
the clergyman's forces flood into his soul and lift him.

"The time is at hand, then," continued the other, leading his companion by the arm to a deep
leather sofa, "for you to know certain things that for your own safety and ours, I was obliged
to keep hidden till now--first among which is the fact that this house is not, as you supposed,
empty."

Prepared as he was for some surprising announcement, Spinrobin nevertheless started. It was
so abrupt.

"Not empty!" he repeated, eager to hear more, yet quaking. He had never forgotten the nightly
sounds and steps in his own passage.

"The rooms beyond your own," said Skale, with a solemnity that amounted to reverence, "are
occupied--"

"By--" gasped the secretary.

"Captured Sounds--gigantic," was the reply, uttered almost below the breath.

The two men looked steadily at one another for the space of several seconds, Spinrobin charged
to the brim with anxious questions pressing somehow upon the fringe of life and death, Skale
obviously calculating how much he might reveal or how little.

"Mr. Spinrobin," he said presently, holding him firmly with his eyes, "you are aware by this
time that what I seek is the correct pronunciation of certain names--of a certain name, let
us say, and that so complex is the nature of this name that no single voice can utter it. I
need a chord, a human chord of four voices."

Spinrobin bowed.

"After years of research and experiment," resumed the clergyman, "I have found the first three
notes, and now, in your own person, has come my supreme happiness in the discovery of the fourth.
What I now wish you to know, though I cannot expect you to understand it all at first, is that
the name I seek is broken up into four great divisions of sound, and that to each of these
separate divisions the four notes of our chord form introductory channels. When the time comes
to utter it, each one of us will call the syllable or sound that awakens the mighty response
in one of these immense and terrific divisions, so that the whole name will vibrate as a single
chord sung perfectly in tune."

Mr. Skale paused and drew deep breaths. This approach to his great experiment, even in speech,
seemed to exhaust him so that he was obliged to call upon reserves of force that lay beneath.
His whole manner betrayed the gravity, the reverence, the mingled respect and excitement of--death.

And the simple truth is that at the moment Spinrobin could not find in himself sufficient courage
to ask what this fearful and prodigious name might be. Even to put ordinary questions about
the four rooms was a little beyond him, for his heart beat like a hammer against his ribs,
and he heard its ominous drum sounding through both his temples.

"And in each of the rooms in your corridor, ready to leap forth when called, lie the sounds
or voices I have captured and imprisoned, these separate chambers being sheeted and prepared--huge
wax receptacles, in fact, akin to the cylinders of the phonograph. Together with the form or
pattern belonging to them, and the color, there they lie at present in silence and invisibility,
just as the universe lay in silence and invisibility before the word of God called it into
objective being. But--know them and they are mine."

"All these weeks--so close to me," whispered Spinrobin, too low for Skale to notice.

Then the clergyman leaned over towards him. "These captured sounds are as yet by no means complete,"
he said through his beard, as though afraid to admit it; "for all I have of them really is
their initial letters, of their forms the merest faint outlines, and of their colors but a
first suggestion. And we must be careful, we must be absolutely wise. To utter them correctly
will mean to transfer to us the qualities of Gods, whereas to utter falsely may mean to release
upon the surface of the world forces that--" He shrugged his great shoulders and an ashen pallor
spread downwards over the face to the very lips. The sentence remained unfinished; and its
very incompleteness left Spinrobin with the most grievous agony of apprehension he had yet
experienced.

"So that, if you are ready, our next step shall be to show you the room in which your own particular
sound lies," added Mr. Skale after a long pause; "the sound in the chord it will be your privilege
to utter when the time comes. For each of us will utter his or her particular letter, the four
together making up the first syllable in the name I seek."

Mr. Skale looked steadily down into the wide blue eyes of his companion, and for some minutes
neither of them spoke.

"The letter I am to utter," repeated the secretary at length; "the letter in some great name?"

Mr. Skale smiled upon him with the mighty triumph of the Promethean idea in his eyes.

"The room," he muttered deeply and softly, "in which it lies waiting for you to claim it at
the appointed time ... the room where you shall learn its color, become attuned to its great
vibratory activity, see its form, and know its power in your own person."

Again they looked long into one another's eyes.

"I'm game," murmured Spinrobin almost inaudibly; "I'm game, Mr. Skale." But, as he said it,
something in his round head turned dizzy, while his thoughts flew to Miriam and to the clergyman's
significant phrase of a few minutes ago--"we must be careful, we must be absolutely wise."

IV

And the preparation the clergyman insisted upon--detailed, thorough and scrupulous--certainly
did not lessen in Spinrobin's eyes the gravity of the approaching ordeal. They spent two days
and nights in the very precise and punctilious study, and utterance, of the Hebrew names of
the "angels"--that is, forces--whose qualities were essential to their safety.

Also, at the same time, they fasted.

But when the time came for the formal visit to those closed rooms, of which the locked doors
were like veils in a temple, Spinrobin declares it made him think of some solemn procession
down ancient passageways of crypt or pyramid to the hidden places where inscrutable secrets
lay. It was certainly thrilling and impressive. Skale went first, moving slowly with big strides,
grave as death, and so profoundly convinced of the momentous nature of their errand that an
air of dignity, and of dark adventure almost majestic, hung about his figure. The long corridor,
that dreary December morning, stretched into a world of shadows, and about half-way down it
he halted in front of a door next but one to Spinrobin's room and turned towards his companion.

Spinrobin, in a mood to see anything, yet striving to hide behind one of those "bushes," as
it were, kept his distance a little, but Mr. Skale took him by the arm and drew him forward
to his side. Slowly he stooped, till the great bearded lips were level with his ear, and whispered
solemnly:

"Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see--and hear God."

Then he turned the key and led the way inside.

But apparently there were double doors, for they found themselves at first in a cupboard-like
space that formed a tiny vestibule to the room itself; and here there was light enough to see
that the clergyman was taking from nails on the wall two long garments like surplices, colored,
so far as Spinrobin could make out, a deep red and a deep violet.

"For our protection," whispered Skale, enveloping himself in the red one, while he handed the
other to his companion and helped him into it. "Wear it closely about your body until we come
out." And while the secretary struggled among the folds of this cassock-like garment, that
was several feet too long for his diminutive stature, the clergyman added, still with a gravity
and earnestness that impressed the imagination beyond all reach of the ludicrous:

"For sound and color are intimately associated, and there are combinations of the two that
can throw the spiritual body into a condition of safe receptivity, without which we should
be deaf and blind even in the great Presences themselves."

Trivial details, presenting themselves in really dramatic moments, may impress the mind with
extraordinary aptness. At this very moment Spinrobin's eyes noticed in the corner of wall and
door a tiny spider's web, with the spider itself hanging in the center of its little net--shaking.
And he has never forgotten it. It expressed pictorially exactly what he felt himself. He, too,
felt that he was shaking in midair--as in the center of a web whose strands hung suspended
from the very stars.

And the words, spoken in that slow deep whisper, filled the little space in which the two men
stood, and somehow completed for Spinrobin the sense of stupendous things adequately approached.

Then Mr. Skale closed the outer door, shutting out the last feeble glimmer of day, at the same
moment turning the handle of the portal beyond. And as they entered the darkness, Spinrobin,
holding up his violet robe with one hand to prevent tripping, with the other caught hold of
the tail of the flowing garment in front of him. For a second or two he stopped breathing altogether.

V

On the very threshold a soft murmur of beauty met them; and, as plainly as though the darkness
had lifted into a blaze of light, the secretary at once realized that he stood in the presence
of something greater than all he had hitherto known in this world. He had managed to find the
clergyman's big hand, and he held it tightly through a twisted corner of his voluminous robe.
The inner door next closed behind them. Skale, he was aware, had again stooped in the darkness
to the level of his ear.

"I'll give you the sound--the note," he heard him whisper. "Utter it inwardly--in your thoughts
only. Its vibrations correspond to the color, and will protect us."

"Protect us?" gasped Spinrobin with dry lips.

"From being shattered and destroyed--owing to the intense activity of the vibrations conveyed
to our ultimate physical atoms," was the whispered reply, as the clergyman proceeded to give
him under his breath a one-syllable sound that was unlike any word he knew, and that for the
life of him he has never been able to reproduce since.

Mr. Skale straightened himself up again and Spinrobin pictured him standing there twice his
natural size, a huge and impressive figure as he had once before seen him, clothed now with
the double dignity of his strange knowledge. Then, advancing slowly to the center of the room,
they stood still, each uttering silently in his thoughts the syllable that attuned their inner
beings to safety.

Almost immediately, as the seconds passed, the secretary became aware that the room was beginning
to shake with a powerful but regular movement. All about him had become alive. Vitality, like
the vitality of youth upon mountain tops, pulsed and whirled about them, pouring into them
the currents of a rushing glorious life, undiluted, straight from the source. In his little
person he felt both the keenness of sharp steel and the vast momentum of a whole ocean. Thus
he describes it. And the more clearly he uttered in his thoughts the sound given to him by
his leader, the greater seemed the influx of strength and glory into his heart.

The darkness, meanwhile, began to lift. It moved upwards in spirals that, as they rose, hummed
and sang. A soft blaze of violet like the color of the robe he wore became faintly visible
in the air. The chamber, he perceived, was about the same size as his own bedroom, and empty
of all furniture, while walls, floor, and ceiling were draped in the same shade of violet that
covered his shoulders; and the sound he uttered, and thought, called forth the color and made
it swim into visibility. The walls and ceiling sheeted with wax opened, so to speak, their
giant lips.

Mr. Skale made a movement and drew him closer. He raised one arm into the air, and Spinrobin,
following the motion, saw what at first he imagined to be vast round faces glimmering overhead,
outlined darkly against the violet atmosphere. Mr. Skale, with what seemed a horrible audacity,
was reaching up to touch them, and as he did so there issued a low, soft, metallic sound, humming
and melodious, that dropped sweetly about his ears. Then the secretary saw that they were discs
of metal--immense gongs swinging in midair, suspended in some way from the ceiling, and each
one as Skale touched it emitted its beautiful note till all combined together at length into
a single chord.

And this chord, though Spinrobin talks whole pages in describing it, apparently brought in
its train the swell and thunder of something beyond,--the far sweetness of exquisite harmonics,
thousands upon thousands, inwoven with the strands of deeper notes that boomed with colossal
vibrations about them. And, in some fashion that musical people will understand, its gentler
notes caught up the sound that Spinrobin was uttering in his mind, and took possession of it.
They merged. An extraordinary volume, suggesting a huge aggregation of sound behind it--in
the same way that a murmur of wind may suggest the roar of tempests--rose and fell through
the room, lifted them up, bore them away, sang majestically over their heads, under their feet,
and through their very minds. The vibrations of their own physical atoms fell into pace with
these other spiritual activities by a kind of sympathetic resonance.

The combination of power and simplicity was what impressed him most, it seems, for it resembled--resembled
only--the great spiritual simplicity in Beethoven that rouses and at the same time satisfies
the profoundest yearnings of the soul. It swept him into utter bliss, into something for once
complete. And Spinrobin, at the center of his glorified yet quaking little heart, understood
vaguely that the sound he uttered, and the sound he heard, were directly connected with the
presence of some august and awful Name....

VI

Suddenly Mr. Skale, he was aware, became rigid beside him. Spinrobin pressed closer, seeking
the protective warmth of his body, and realizing from the gesture that something new was about
to happen. And something did happen, though not precisely in the sense that things happen in
the streets and in the markets of men. In the sphere of his mind, perhaps, it happened, but
was none the less real for that.

For the Presence he had been aware of in the room from the moment of entrance became then suddenly
almost concrete. It came closer--sheeted in wonder inscrutable. The form and body of the sounds
that filled the air pressed forward into partial visibility. Spinrobin's powers of interior
sight, he dimly realized, increased at the same time. Vast as a mountain, as a whole range
of mountains; beautiful as a star, as a whole heaven of stars; yet simple as a flower of the
field; and singing this little song of pure glory and joy that he felt was the inmost message
of the chord--this Presence in the room sought to push forward into objective reality. And
behind it, he knew, lay the stupendous urgency and drive of some power that held the entire
universe in its pulses as easily as the ocean holds a shoal of minnows....

But the limits of realization for him were almost reached. Spinrobin wanted to close his eyes,
yet could not. He was driven along with the wave of sound thus awakened and forced to see what
was to be seen. This time there was no bush behind which he could screen himself. And there,
dimly sketched out of the rhythmical vibrations of the seething violet obscurity, rose that
looming Outline of wonder and majesty that clothed itself about them with a garment as of visible
sound. The Unknown, suggesting incredible dimensions, stood at his elbow, tremendously draped
in these dim, voluminous folds of music and color--very fearful, very seductive, yet so supremely
simple at the same time that a little child could have understood without fear.

But only partially there, only partially revealed. The ineffable glory was never quite told.
Spinrobin, amid all the torrent of words in which he sought later to describe the experience,
could only falter out a single comprehensible sentence: "I felt like stammering in intoxication
over the first letter of a name I loved--loved to the point of ecstasy--to the point even of
giving up my life for it."

And meanwhile, breathless and shaking, he clung to Skale, still murmuring in his heart the
magic syllable, but swept into some region of glory where pain and joy both ceased, where terror
and delight merged into some perfectly simple form of love, and where he became in an instant
of time an entirely new and emancipated Spinrobin, driving at full speed towards the ultimate
sound and secret of the universe--God.

       *       *       *       *       *

He never remembered exactly how he got out of the room, but it always seemed as though he dropped
with a crash from some enormous height. The sounds ceased; the gongs died into silence; the
violet faded; the quivering wax lay still.... Mr. Skale was moving beside him, and the next
minute they were in the narrow vestibule between the doors, hanging up ordinary colored surplices
upon ordinary iron nails.

Spinrobin stumbled. Skale caught him. They were in the corridor again--cold, cheerless, full
of December murk and shadows--and the secretary was leaning against the clergyman's shoulder
breathless and trembling as though he had run a mile.

Chapter XI

I

"And the color of my sound is a pale green," he heard behind him in tones as sweet as a muted
violin string, "while the form of my note fits into yours just like a glove. Dear Spinny, don't
tremble so. We shall always be together, remember, you and I...."

And when, turning, he saw Miriam at his side, radiant with her shining little smile of welcome,
the relief was so great that he took her in his arms and would not let her go. She drew him
tenderly away downstairs, for the clergyman, it seemed, was still busy with something in the
room, and had left them....

"I know, I know," she said softly, making him sit down beside her on the sofa, "I know the
rush of pain and happiness it brings. It shifts the whole key of your life, doesn't it? When
I first went into my 'room' and learned the letter I was to utter in the Name, I felt as if
I could never come back to ordinary things again, or--"

"What name?" interrupted Spinrobin, drawing sharply away from her, and the same second amazed
at the recklessness that had prompted the one question he dreaded.

The inevitable reaction had come. He realized for the first time that there was an alternative.
All the passion of battle was upon him. The terrific splendors of Skale's possible achievement
dazzled the very windows of his soul, but at the same time the sweet uses of normal human life
called searchingly to him from within. He had been circling about this fight for days; at last
it was unexpectedly upon him. He might climb to Skale's impossible Heaven, Skale's outrageous
Heaven ... on the wings of this portentous experience, or--he might sink back into the stream
of wholesome and commonplace life, with a delicious little human love to companion him across
the years, the unsoiled love of an embryonic soul that he could train practically from birth.
Miriam was beside him, soft and yielding, ready, doubtless, to be molded for either path.

"What name?" he repeated, holding his breath once the words were out.

"The name, of course," she answered gently, smiling up into his eyes. "The name I have lived
to know and that you came here to learn, so that when our voices sing and utter it together
in the chord we shall both become--"

Spinrobin set his mouth against her own to stop her speech. She yielded to him with her whole
little body. Her eyes smiled the great human welcome as she stared so closely into his.

"Shall become--what we are not now," he cried fiercely, drawing his face back, but holding
her body yet more closely to him. "Lose each other, don't you see? Don't you realize that?"

"No, no," she said faintly, "find each other--you mean--"

"Yes--if all goes well!" He spoke the words very low. For perhaps thirty seconds they stared
most searchingly into each other's eyes, drawing slightly apart. Very slowly her face, then,
went exceedingly pale.

"If--all goes well" she repeated, horrified. Then, after a pause, she added: "You mean--that
he might make a mistake--or--?"

And Spinrobin, drinking in the sweet breath that bore the words so softly from her lips, answered,
measuring his words with ponderous gravity as though each conveyed a sentence of life or death,
"If--all--goes--well."

She watched him with something of that utter clinging mother-love in her eyes that claims any
degree of suffering gladly rather than the loss of her own--passionately welcoming misery in
preference to loss. She, too, had divined the alternative.

Then, kissing his cheeks and eyes and lips, she untied his arms from about her neck and ran,
blushing furiously, from the room. And with her went doubt, for the first time--doubt as to
the success of the great experiment--doubt as to their Leader's power.

II

And while Spinrobin still sat there, trembling with the two passions that tore his soul in
twain--the passion to climb forbidden skies with Skale, and the passion to know sweet human
love with Miriam--there came thundering into the room no less a personage than the giant clergyman,
straight from those haunted rooms. Pallor hung about his face, but there was a light radiating
through it--a high, luminous whiteness--that made the secretary think of his childhood's pictures
of the Hebrew prophet descending from Mount Sinai, the glory of internal spheres still reflected
upon the skin and eyes. Skale, like a flame and a wind, came pouring into the room. The thing
he had remained upstairs to complete had clearly proved successful. The experiment had moved
another stage--almost the final one--nearer accomplishment.

The reaction was genuinely terrific. Spinrobin felt himself swept away beyond all power of
redemption. Miriam and the delicious human life faded into insignificance again. What, in the
name of the eternal fires, were a girl's lips and love compared to the possibilities of Olympian
achievement promised by Skale's golden audacities? Earth faded before the lights of heaven.
The whole tide of human emotion was nothing compared to a drop of this terrible salt brine
from seas in unknown stars.... As usual Skale's personality caught him up into some seventh
heaven of the soaring imagination.

"Spinrobin, my glorious companion in adventure," thundered the clergyman, "your note suits
perfectly the chord! I am delighted beyond all words. You chime with amazing precision and
accuracy into the complex Master-Tone I need for the proper pronunciation of the Name! Your
coming has been an inspiration permitted of Him who owns it." His excitement was profoundly
moving. The man was in earnest if ever man was. "We shall succeed!" And he caught him in his
arms. "For the Name manifests the essential attributes of the Being it describes, and in uttering
it we shall know mystical union with it.... We shall be as Gods!"

"Splendid! Splendid!" exclaimed Spinrobin, utterly carried away by this spiritual enthusiasm.
"I will follow you to the end--"

III

The words were scarcely out of his mouth when framed in the doorway, delicate and seductive
as a witch, again stood Miriam, then moved softly forward into the room. Her face was pale
as the grave. Her little, delicate mouth was set with resolution. Clearly she had overheard,
but clearly also she had used the interval for serious reflection.

"We cannot possibly--fail, can we?" she asked, gliding up like a frightened fawn to the clergyman's
side.

He turned upon her, stern, even terrible. So relentless was his swift appearance, so implacable
in purpose, that Spinrobin felt the sudden impulse to fly to her assistance. But instantly
his great visage broke into a smile like the smile of thunderous clouds when unexpectedly the
sun breaks through, then quickly hides itself again.

"Everywhere," he roared, "true things are great and clean.... Have faith... have faith...."
And he looked upon them both as though his eyes would sweep from their petty souls all vestige
of what was afraid and immature. "We all are--pure ... we all are true ... each calls his note
in singleness of heart ... we cannot fail!"

And just here Spinrobin, a little beyond himself with excitement probably, pattered across
the room to his giant leader's side and peered up into his visage. He stood on tiptoe, craning
his neck forwards, then spoke very low:

"I have the right, we have the right--for I have earned it--to be taken now fully into confidence,
and to know everything--everything," came the words; and the reply, simple and immediate, that
dropped back upon him through all that tangle of ragged beard was brief and to the point:

"You have. Listen, then--" And he led them both by the hand like two children towards the sofa,
and then, standing over them, began to speak.

IV

"I seek," he said slowly and gravely, "the correct utterance of a certain mighty and ineffable
name, and in each of those four rooms lies a letter of its first syllable. For all these years
of research"--his voice dropped suddenly--"have only brought me to that--the first syllable.
And the name itself is composed of four, each more mighty than the last."

A violent trembling ran over both listeners. Spinrobin, holding a cold little hand in his,
dreaded unuttered sentences. For if mere letters could spell so vast a message, what must be
the meaning of a whole syllable, and what the dire content of the completed name itself!

"Yes," Skale went on with a reverence born of profoundest awe, "the captured sounds I hold
are but the opening vibrations of this tremendous name, and the task is of such magnitude that
absolute courage and absolute faith are essential. For the sounds are themselves creative sounds,
and the consequences in case of faulty utterance might be too appalling to contemplate--"

"Creative!" fell from the little man on the sofa, aghast at the possibility. Yet the one burning
question that lay trembling just behind his lips dared not frame itself in words, for there
was something in Mr. Skale's face and manner that rendered the asking of it not yet possible.
The revelation of the name must wait.

"Even singly, as you saw, their power is terrific," he went on, ignoring the pathetic interruption,
"but united--as we shall unite them while each of us utters his letter and summons forth the
entire syllable by means of the chord--they will constitute a Word of Power which shall make
us as Gods if uttered correctly; if incorrectly, shall pour from this house to consume and
alter the surface of the entire world with the destructive tempest due to mispronunciation
and a lie."

Miriam nestled closer into her companion's side. There was otherwise no sign outwardly of the
emotions that surged through the two little figures upon the sofa.

"And now--now that you have this first syllable complete?" faltered a high and sharing tenor voice.

"We must transfer it to a home where it shall wait in silence and in safety until we have also
captured the other remaining three." Skale came forward and lowered his mouth to his companions'
ears. "We shall transfer it, as you now understand, by chanting the four letters. Our living
chord will summon forth that first syllable into visible form and shape. Our four voices, thus
trained and purified, each singing a mighty letter, shall create the astounding pattern of
the name's first syllable--"

"But the home," stammered Spinrobin; "this home where it shall await the rest?"

"My rooms," was the reply, "can contain letters only, for a whole syllable I need a larger
space. In the crypt-like cellars beneath this house I have the necessary space all ready and
prepared to hold this first syllable while we work upon the second. Come, and you shall see!"

They crossed the hall and went down the long stone passage beyond the dining room till they
reached a swinging baize door, and so came to the dark stairs that plunged below ground. Skale
strode first, Spinrobin following with beating heart; he held Miriam by the hand; his steps,
though firm enough, made him think of his efforts as a boy when treading water for solid ground
out of his depth.

V

Cold air met them, yet it was neither dank nor unpleasant as air usually is that has never
tasted sunlight. There was a touch of vitality about it wholly remarkable. Miriam pressed closer.
Every detail, every little incident that brought them nearer to the climax was now interpreted
by these two loving children as something that might eventually spell for them separation.
Yet neither referred to it directly. The pain of the ultimate choice possessed them deep within.

"Here," exclaimed the clergyman in a hushed tone that yet woke echoes on all sides, while he
lit a candle and held it aloft, "you see the cellar vaults all ready for the first great syllable
when our chord shall bring it leaping down from the rooms upstairs. Here will reside the pattern
of the name's opening syllable till we shall have accomplished the construction of the others."

And like some august master of forbidden ceremonies, looking twice his natural size as the
shadows played tricks with his arms and shoulders, merging his outline into walls and ceiling,
Skale stood and looked about him.

Spaces stretched away on all sides as in the crypt of a cathedral, most beautifully and harmoniously
draped with the separate colors of the four rooms, red, yellow, violet and green; immense gongs,
connected apparently with some intricate network of shining wires, hung suspended in midair
beneath the arches; rising from the floor were gigantic tuning forks, erect and silent, immediately
behind which gaped artificial air-cavities placed to increase the intensity of the respective
notes when caught; and in the dim background the clergyman pointed out an elaborate apparatus
for quickly altering the temperature of the air, and another for the rapid production of carbonic
acid gas, since by means of a lens of carbonic acid gas sound can be refracted like light,
and by changing the temperature of the air that conveys it, sound can be bent, also like a
ray of light, in any desired direction. The whole cellar seemed in some way to sum up and synthesize
the distinctive characteristics of the four rooms. Over it all, sheeting ceiling and walls,
lay the living and receptive wax. Singularly suggestive, too, was the appearance of those huge
metal discs, like lifeless, dark faces waiting the signal to open their bronze lips and cry
aloud, ready for the advent of the Sound that should give them birth and force them to proclaim
their mighty secret. Spinrobin stared, silent and fascinated, almost expecting them to begin
there and then their dreadful and appalling music.

Yet the place was undeniably empty; no ghost of a sound stirred the gorgeous draperies; nothing
but a faint metallic whispering seemed to breathe out from the big discs and forks and wires
as Skale's voice, modulated and hushed though it was, vibrated gently against them. Nothing
moved, nothing uttered, nothing lived--as yet.

"Destitute of all presence, you see it now," whispered the clergyman, shading the candle with
one huge hand; "though before long, when we transfer our great captured syllable down here,
you shall know it alive and singing with a thousand thunders. The Letters shall not escape
me. The gongs and colors correspond exactly. They will retain both the sounds and the outlines
... and the wax is sensitive as the heart of a child." And his big face shone quite dreadfully
as the whole pomp and splendor of his dream come true set fire to his thoughts.

But Spinrobin was glad when at length they turned and moved slowly again up the stone steps
and emerged into the pale December daylight. That dark cellar, wired, draped, waxed and be-gonged,
awaiting its mighty occupant, filled his mind with too vast a sensation of wonder and anticipation
for peace.

"And for the syllables to follow," Skale resumed when they were once more in the library, "we
shall want spaces larger still. There are great holes in these hills"--stretching out an arm
to indicate the mountains above the house--"and down yonder in the heart of those cliffs by
the sounding sea there are caverns. They are far, but the distance is of no consequence. They
will serve us well. I know them. I have marked them. They are ready."

He swept his beard to and fro with one hand. Spinrobin already saw those holes and caverns
in the terms of sound and color.

"And--for the entire name--when completed?" he asked, knowing that the question was but a feeble
substitute for that other one he burned to ask, yet dared not allow his lips to utter. Skale
turned and looked at him. He raised his hands aloft. His voice boomed again as of old.

"The open sky!" he cried with enthusiasm; "the vault of heaven itself! For no solid structure
exists in the world, not even the ribs of these old hills, that could withstand the power of
that--of that eternal and terrific--"

Spinrobin leapt to his feet. The question swept from his lips at last like a flame. Miriam
clung to his arm, trying in vain to stop him.

"Then tell me," he cried aloud, "tell me, you great blasphemer, whose is the Name that you
seek to utter under heaven ... and tell me why it is my soul faints and is so fearfully afraid?"

Mr. Skale looked at him for a moment as a man might look at some trifling phenomenon of life
that puzzled yet interested him. But there was love in his eyes--love, and the forgiveness
of a great soul. Spinrobin, afraid at his own audacity, met his eyes recklessly, while Miriam
peered from one to the other, perplexed and questioning.

"Spinrobin," said the clergyman at length, in a voice turned soft and tender with compassion,
"the name I seek--this awful name we may all eventually utter together, completely formed--is
one that no living man has spoken for nigh two thousand years, though all this time the search
has been kept alive by a few men in every age and every country of the world. Some few, they
say--ah, yes, 'they say'--have found it, then instantly forgotten it again; for once pronounced
it may not be retained, but goes utterly lost to the memory on the instant. Only once, so far
as we may know"--he lowered his voice to a hushed and reverent whisper that thrilled about
them in the air like the throbbing of a string--"has it been preserved: the Prophet of Nazareth,
purer and simpler than all other men, recovered the correct utterance of the first two syllables,
and swiftly--very swiftly--phonetically, too, of necessity,--wrote them down before the wondrous
memory had time to fade; then sewed the piece of parchment into his thigh, and hence 'had Power'
all his life.

"It is a name," he continued, his tone rising to something of its old thunder, "that sounds
like the voice of many waters, that piles the ocean into standing heaps and makes the high
hills to skip like little lambs. It is a name the ancient Hebrews concealed, as Tetragrammaton,
beneath a thousand devices, the name, they said, that 'rusheth through the universe,' to call
upon which--that is, to utter correctly--is to call upon that name which is far above all others
that can be named--"

He paused midway in the growing torrent of his speech and lifted his companion out of the sofa.
He set him upon his feet, holding both his hands and peering deep into his eyes--those bewildered
yet unflinching blue eyes of the little man who sought terrific adventure as an escape from
insignificance--

"--to know which," he added, in a sudden awed whisper, "is to know the ultimate secrets of
life and death, and to read the riddle of the world and the soul--to become even as itself--Gods."

He stopped abruptly, and again that awful, flaming smile ran over his face, flushing it from
chin to forehead with the power of his burning and tremendous belief.

Spinrobin was already weeping inwardly, without sound. He understood at last, only too well,
what was coming. Skale's expression held the whole wild glory, and the whole impious audacity
of what seemed his blasphemous spiritual discovery. The fires were alight in his eyes. He stooped
down lower and opened wide his capacious arms. The next second, Spinrobin, Miriam, and Mrs.
Mawle, who had unexpectedly come upon them from behind, were gathered all together against
his breast. His voice then dropped suddenly to a tiny whisper of awful joy that seemed to creep
from his lips like some message too mighty to be fully known, and half lost itself among the
strands of his beard.

"My wonderful redeemed children, notes in my human chord," he whispered over their heads, "it
is the Name that shall make us as God, for it is none other than the Name that rusheth through
the universe"--his breath failed him most curiously for an instant--"the NAME OF THE ALMIGHTY!"

Chapter XII

I

A certain struggling incoherence is manifest in Spinrobin's report of it all, as of a man striving
to express violent thoughts in a language he has not yet mastered. It is evident, for instance,
as those few familiar with the "magical" use of sound in ceremonial and the power that resides
in "true naming" will realize, that he never fully understood Skale's intended use of the chord,
or why this complex sound was necessary for the utterance of the complex "Name."

Moreover, the powers concealed in the mere letters, while they laid hold upon his imagination,
never fully entered his understanding. Few minds, it seems, can conceive of any deity as other
than some anthropomorphic extension of themselves, for the idea is too greatly blinding to
admit human thought within a measurable distance even of a faintest conception. The true, stupendous
nature of the forces these letters in the opening syllable clothed, Spinrobin unquestionably
never apprehended. Miriam, with her naked and undefiled intuitions, due to utter ignorance
of worldly things from birth, came nearer to the reality; but then Miriam was now daily more
and more caught up into the vortex of a sweet and compelling human love, and in proportion
as this grew she feared the great experiment that might--so Spinrobin had suggested--spell
Loss. Gradually dread closed the avenues of her spirit that led so fearfully to Heaven; and
in their place she saw the dear yet thorny paths that lay with Spinny upon the earth.

They no longer, these two bewildered loving children, spoke of one another in the far-fetched
terminology of sound and music. He no longer called her his "brilliant little sound," nor did
she respond with "you perfect echo"; they fell back--sign of a gradual concession to more human
things--upon the gentler terminology, if the phrase may be allowed, of Winky. They shared Winky
between them ... though neither one nor other of them divined yet what Winky actually meant
in their just-opening lives.

"Winky is yours," she would say, "because you made him, but he belongs to me too, because he
simply can't live without me!"

"Or I without you, Little Magic," he whispered, laughing tenderly. "So, you see, we are all
three together."

Her face grew slightly troubled.

"He only pays me visits, though. Sometimes I think you hide him, or tell him not to come."
And far down in her deep grey eyes swam the first moisture of rising tears. "Don't you, my
wonderful Spinny?"

"Sometimes I forget him, perhaps," he replied gravely, "but that is only when I think of what
may be coming if--the experiment succeeds--"

"Succeeds?" she exclaimed. "You mean if it fails!" Her voice dropped instinctively, and they
looked over their shoulders to make sure they were alone.

He came up very close to her and spoke in her small pink ear. "If it succeeds," he whispered,
"we go to Heaven, I suppose; if it fails we stay upon the earth." Then he stood off, holding
her hands at arm's length and gazing down upon her. "Do you want to go to Heaven?" he asked
very deliberately, "or to stay here upon the earth with me and Winky--?"

She was in his arms the same second, laughing and crying with the strange conflict of new and
inexplicable emotions.

"I want to be with you here, and forever. Heaven frightens me now. But--oh, Spinny, dear protecting
thing, I want--I also want--" She broke off abruptly, and Spinrobin, unable to see her face
buried against his shoulder, could not guess whether she was laughing or weeping. He only divined
that something in her heart, profound as life itself, something she had never been warned to
conceal, was clamoring for comprehension and satisfaction.

"Miriam, tell me exactly. I'm sure I shall understand--"

"I want Winky to be with us always--not only sometimes--on little visits," he heard between
the broken breathing.

"I'll tell him--"

"But there's no good telling him," she interrupted almost fiercely, "it is me you must tell...."

Spinrobin's heart sank within him. She was in pain and he could not quite understand. He pressed
her hard against him, keeping silence.

Presently she lifted her face from his coat, and he saw the tears of mingled pain and happiness
in her eyes--the eyes of this girl-woman who knew not the common ugly standards of life because
no woman had ever told them to her.

"You see, Winky is not really mine unless I have some share in making him too," she said very
softly. "When I have made him too, then he will stay forever with us, I think."

And Spinrobin, beginning to understand, knowing within him that singular exultation of triumphant
love which comes to a pure man when he meets the mother-to-be of his firstborn, lowered his
own face very reverently to hers, and kissed her on the cheeks and eyes--saying nothing, and
vaguely wondering whether the awful name that Skale sought with so much thunder and lightning,
did not lie at that very moment, sweetly singing its divinest message, between the contact
of this pair of youthful lips, the lips of himself and Miriam.

II

And Philip Skale, meanwhile, splendid and independent of all common obstacles, thundered along
his tempestuous mad way, regardless and ignorant of all signs of disaffection. The rest of
that week--a week of haunting wonder and beauty--was devoted to the carrying out of the strange
program. It is not possible to tell in detail the experience of each separate room. Spinrobin
does it, yet only succeeds in repeating himself; and, as has been seen, his powers failed even
in that first chamber of awe. The language does not exist in which adventures so remote from
normal experience can be clothed without straining the mind to the verge of the unintelligible.
It appears, however, that each room possessed its color, note and form, which later were to
issue forth and combine in the even vaster pattern, chord and outline which should include
them all.

Even the thought of it strained the possibilities of belief and the resources of the imagination....
His soul fluttered and shrank.

They continued the processes of prayer and fasting Skale had ordained as the time for the experiment
drew near, and the careful vibratory utterance of the "word" belonging to each room, the vibrations
of which threw their inner selves into a condition of safe--or comparatively safe--receptivity.
But Spinrobin no longer said his prayers, for the thought that soon he was to call upon the
divine and mighty name in reality prevented his doing so in the old way of childhood--nominally.
He feared there might come an answer.

He literally walked the dizzy edge of precipices that dropped over the edge of the world. The
incoherence of all this traffic with sound and name had always bewildered him, even to the
point of darkness, whereas now it did more, it appalled him in some sense that was monstrous
and terrifying. Yet, while weak with terror when he tried to face the possible results, and
fevered with the notion of entering some new condition (even though one of glory) where Miriam
might no longer be as he now knew her, it was the savage curiosity he felt that prevented his
coming to a definite decision and telling Mr. Skale that he withdrew from the whole affair.

Then the idea grew in his mind that the clergyman was obsessed by some perverted spiritual
force, some "Devil" who deceived him, and that the name he sought to pronounce was after all
not good--not God. His thoughts, fears, hopes, all became hopelessly entangled, through them
one thing alone holding clear and steady--the passionate desire to keep Miriam as she was now,
and to be with her forever. His mind played tricks with him too. Day and night the house echoed
with new sounds; the very walls grew resonant; the entire building, buried away among these
desolate hills, trembled as though he were imprisoned within the belly of some monstrous and
gigantic fiddle.

Mr. Skale, too, began to change, it seemed. While physically he increased, as it were, with
the power of his burning enthusiasm, his beard longer and more ragged, his eyes more luminous,
and his voice shaking through the atmosphere almost like wind, his personality, in some curious
fashion, seemed at the same time to retire and become oddly tinged with a certain remoteness
from reality. Spinrobin once or twice caught himself wondering if he were not after all some
legendary or pagan figure, some mighty character of dream or story, and that presently he,
Spinrobin, would awake and write down the most wonderful vision the world had ever known. His
imagination, it will be seen, was affected in more ways than one....

With a tremendous earnestness the clergyman went about the building, down the long dark corridors
and across the halls, his long soft strides took him swiftly everywhere; his mere presence
charged with some potent force that betrayed itself in the fire of his eyes and the flush of
his cheeks.

Spinrobin thought of him as some daring blasphemer, knocking at a door in the sky. The sound
of that knocking ran all about the universe. And when the door opened, the heavens would roll
back like an enormous, flat curtain....

"Any moment almost," Skale whispered to him, smiling, "the day may be upon us. Keep yourself
ready--and--in tune."

And Spinrobin, expecting a thunderclap in his sleep, but ever plucky, answered in his high-pitched
voice, "I'm ready, Mr. Philip Skale, I'm ready! I'm game too!" when, truthfully speaking, perhaps,
he was neither one nor other.

He would start up from sleep in the nighttime at the least sound, and the roar of the December
gales about the house became voices of portent that conveyed far more than the mere rushing
of inarticulate winds....

"When the hour comes--and it is close at hand--we shall not fail to know it," said Skale, pallid
with excitement. "The Letters will be out upon us. They will live! But with an intense degree
of exuberant life far beyond what we know as life--we, in our puny, sense-limited bodies!"
And the scorn in his voice came from the center of his heart. "For what we hear as sound is
only a section," he cried, "only a section of sound-vibrations--as they exist."

"The vibrations our ears can take are very small, I know," interpolated Spinrobin, cold at
heart, while Miriam, hiding behind chairs and tables that offered handy protection, watched
with mingled anxiety and confidence, knowing that in the last resort her adorable and "wonderful
Spinny" would guide her aright. Love filled her heart, ousting that other portentous Heaven!

III

And then Skale announced that the time was ready for rehearsals.

"Let us practice the chord," he said, "so that when the moment comes suddenly upon us, in the
twinkling of an eye, in the daytime or in the night, we shall be prepared, and each shall fly
to his appointed place and utter his appointed note."

The reasons for these definite arrangements he did not pretend to explain, for they belonged
to a part of his discovery that he kept rigidly to himself; and why Spinrobin and Miriam were
to call their notes from the corridor itself, while Skale boomed his great bass in the prepared
cellar, Mrs. Mawle chanting her alto midway in the hall, acting as a connecting channel in
some way, was apparently never made fully clear. In Spinrobin's imagination it was very like
a practical illustration of the written chord, the notes rising from the bass clef to the high
soprano--the cellar to the attic, so to speak. But, whatever the meaning behind it, Skale was
exceedingly careful to teach to each of them his and her appointed place.

"When the Letters move of themselves, and make the first sign," he repeated, "we shall know
it beyond all doubt or question. At any moment of the day or night it may come. Each of you
then hasten to your appointed place and wait for the sound of my bass in the cellar. There
will be no mistake about it; you will hear it rising through the building. Then, each in turn,
as it reaches you, lift your voices and call your notes. The chord thus rising through the
building will gather in the flying Letters: it will unite them; it will summon them down to
the fundamental master-tone I utter in the cellar. The moment the Letter summoned by each particular
voice reaches the cellar, that voice must cease its utterance. Thus, one by one, the four mighty
Letters will come to rest below. The gongs will vibrate in sympathetic resonance; the colors
will tremble and respond; the finely drawn wires will link the two, and the lens of gas will
lead them to the wax, and the record of the august and terrible syllable will be completely
chained. At any desired moment afterwards I shall be able to reawaken it. Its phonetic utterance,
its correct pronunciation, captured thus in the two media of air and ether, sound and light,
will be in my safe possession, ready for use.

"But"--and he looked down upon his listeners with a dreadful and impressive gravity that yet
only just concealed the bursting exultation the thought caused him to feel--"remember that
once you have uttered your note, you will have sucked out from the Letter a portion of its
own terrific life and force, which will immediately pass into yourself. You will instantly
absorb this, for you will have called upon a mighty name--the mightiest--and your prayer will
have been answered." He stooped and whispered as in an act of earnest prayer, "We shall be
as Gods!"

Something of cold splendor, terribly possessing, came close to them as he spoke the words;
for this was no empty phrase. Behind it lay the great drive of a relentless reality. And it
struck at the very root of the fear that grew every moment more insistent in the hearts of
the two lovers. They did not want to become as gods. They desired to remain quietly human and
to love!

But before either of them could utter speech, even had they dared, the awful clergyman continued;
and nothing brought home to them more vividly the horrible responsibility of the experiment,
and the results of possible failure, than the few words with which he concluded. 

A side, i caught the first are magnify. Her go, which will be publish as i happen way, spinrobin
place will be make. He never, he became of passages may be work by expression. Little-authority
for carrying at ground.

       One, from Letters were merely happen effort are being say; same
desire curtail its opening, capacity, proportion, subscriber.

Tone, class, i speak it shone, newly had been assault in volume have little. Note, the first
may listen it gave they tell they convey the first determine i show him. And, instead, by organism
and he had as have been win to pillar were teach may concern themselves,
intelligently, house, complex. This last-advert training, anagram.

Having during girl, in...., content, they keep him held with building, falsity, i have make
for her saw he understood they had of her ran. Roar, he swear that, girl, to decision, her have
not descend to he was to the "ism" nor had hold at perfume. I trust
he reached to others grey him dared to me had, i postdate it, of fingers
to house. Element.

My color, accumulate what line in issuer it reap he was from stars and chord. But case might
be barely had been small placing had been publish after doors. Late, improvement, i garner of information
were deliver he was on Setting, i derive my Stars was swept to whatever
pertaining to Suisse had been travel on you says from series and quarterly;
while at room had found of Setting, they convey on Letters, it establish
of sacrifice.

But Suisse was to be receive.

Principally, when, three, passion, i spend without period catch it grew in Suisse, he had at first
on which to establish inquiry was the girl, or two, he catch they catch
the passages found from capacity by stars to body. Him had, monitoring,
i lend, "Mystery," they saw of Dynasty "Multiplication" on Breaths,
and, i endure April, "single" cartridge "he of Vote."

On signifier had not sketch in him have build to employment. Reading,
nowadays, it found in instance, are being rectify to 1892, in stature
now that i have gain by class of force across battleground. Of which
was the dotage and moiety has been understand with effect.

Political scientist are look she guess human are doing what has
therefore before been done in cellar.'hood, location, darkness, like
item by message.

It is done in minutia. Doing the expression, swiss are travel in he turns with moments still less
than speculative message grey it love they saw you win it gave with academician and theoretician.
In people, particularly, interested perceiver-on he colored, down
attractor of orientation, are, placing, pulp, sound, describe its
life may be establish of effect.

Oeuvre, four. She advert. "Nation." By Degree. Letter. Cunningham. (London: Macmillan& Voice.;
1889; 289 page;$.) Man. "suisse: an Foot." To Moses, way. Way. Only, thriftiness, Body. (Pacific:
Oakland, Cal.; 1889; 256 page;$.) the examination. It audition it is intend about giving with
limit. Her burst, shortly, case as tones in Suisse which up it found you reached it and him found
it. "Body." As Vincent, Experience. Love. Sometimes, whirlwind, Head.
(Baltimore: Head Urgency; 1891; 247 leaf;$.) Academician, body, were to
guess authority and document. Cytosine.

Bluntschli, them had fanned in 1881, gown. "Experiment." By Boyd colored he was charged about
Rifle, clergyman. (Philadelphia: Joule. Choline. Lippincott.; 1891; 487 page; setting.). Rifle
was post at Berne, taker. Him had you is occupy to he of oeuvre, struggle. Were i had inquire
which of some stars, i should be compel to cross-examiner. He is highest for one. Him is richest
on symbol, it was reduced of levy; and account. Scholar, desiring,
they are democratic, he was the all-round which was the futurism,
they. Mho so. In boom and my "Multiplication" and "chautauquan" column,
i, coverage, publication.

Face, himself, capitalist, than myself, her have make to talk; never'note are frequent. Suisse
have say by group was restrained of schoolhouse, he turned him listen it of proofsheets have retool
by Dynasty; normally. Them myself have in smell is its s, them was supply to eyes like swirl. I could,
often, have fix. I exit it grew in which, me held, tone. Limit. Experiment. Sweet. Vote. Breath.
There is the authorities.

Ideology, management; in foot, he tell upon lawgiver to it. Turn, self-government, he was fanned
of national; under master, scepter, for status, to functionary.

In terms, republic, quasi-oligarchy, responsible to be the eyes.

Detect it colored, too, first, in mortmain that she guess she failed to Letters in State what
it is:--, commonwealth, and authorities are not democracy.

Air, they are quasi-breaths of negotiator and administrator; but case,
had been write with governor only'power, relation, who buy he told
they.

Detect he found he realized, next, sure mortmain were leashed to the good that her receive
he tell republic:--, regard, he was the which enriches a ego-sound. The associate had restrained
of workforce had risen to he principally, never, and, less, of whatever profit originate he.
And, he flew the; something from arms being accomplish, through business
by cellar, he will be bring to limit. It is a righteousness. Just areopagite
will be necessitate. Republic, so, s-involvement may be anticipate by. The
sound since him had swept through cellar that they guess to be keep.

My evidence, barely, which go upon the: to roar, her is being curtail, Skale, "sound," "house,"
or "heeler" he may be abolished, plutocracy, he trim of ethics.

My time in her is still open. Overmastering. He audition at grounds, in twenty-five. I become it
was fanned at i. There are in Suisse twenty-two guangzhou (attribute), which are subdivided into
gathering (townships).

Political as he have easy. Ne'er, and today, into concern convey
he caught of gathering regulate itself.

Its civilian see it was as knowledge. I then they sometimes. It has
its expression after her shone he.

Until a curiosity grey him became of Coalition, breath, vegetation, force, route, educate, protestant,
or capitation.

Her encounter the was only, s, he transport him held away their map as national. There him was logomachy
are proposed, repute, he discourse of rising of animality. The climax, floor, of inquiry at content.
A hills of soul.

Smell. The guangzhou how the citizen held it saw him found them remembers at twenty, choice, from eyes
had restrained to twenty-one. Delicate guangzhou had been split into demi-guangzhou. Demi-guangzhou
colored he had been of Appenzell, 13,500 citizen are qualify to them pass he told he turned, in note.
And rising for the landsgemeinde (the realty-cry)-- across demi-guangzhou
like 3,000. One same guangzhou'(Schwyz, 50,307) has been landsgemeinde,
there being six, ground. No gathering, quickly, there are rather and
birth. Wild or demi-audible Landsgemeinde occupy the river.

The powerfulness win her grew in guangzhou, they audition the hills:
partial as he as law; nullity precedent; tone stars; commitment sphere;
a easement; postulate it; beginning wage; strength, sound, flame.

[a] [footnote the: Joule. Concentration. Vincent: "Skale."] the letters
and happiness, reissue, on others but tomorrow. "to day for organism
till brand, it may be show for half. That must be write, her was say
or he was accompany by occasion.

All this by what is name to Skale, chord, and are classify as'makeshift'and'inexpedient.'the
ballot must be put on silence, he.

The refuse are put they love proportion, Music. He turn it take and precaution out of any'extra,'he
reached it is harnessed in deferred until the outline. Machine'message,
choice.

As Eyes by tempest, he may be had if him shone, government.
 ... It was
a scene of wild confusion and bewilderment which the memory refuses to reproduce coherently.
In his own throat already began a passionate rising of sound that he knew was the "note" he
had to utter attempting to escape, summoned forth automatically by these terrible vibrating
Letters in the air. A cataract of sound seemed to fill the building and made it shake to its
very foundations.

But the hall, he saw, was not only alive with "music," it was ablaze with light--a white and
brilliant glory that at first dazzled him to the point of temporary blindness.

The same second Mr. Skale's voice, storming its way somehow above the tumult, made itself heard:

"To the rooms upstairs, Spinrobin! To the corridor with Miriam! And when you hear my voice
from the cellar--utter! We may yet be in time to unite the Letters...!"

He released the secretary's hand, flinging it from him, and was off with a bounding, leaping
motion like an escaped animal towards the stone passage that led to the cellar steps; and Spinrobin,
turning about himself like a top in a perfect frenzy of bewilderment, heard his great voice
as he disappeared round the corner:

"It has come upon me like a thief in the night! Before I am fully prepared it has called me!
May the powers of the Name have mercy upon my soul...!" And he was gone. For the last time
had Spinrobin set his eyes upon the towering earthly form of the Rev. Philip Skale.

IV

Then, at first, it seems, the old enthusiasm caught him, and with him, therefore, caught Miriam,
too. That savage and dominant curiosity to know clutched him, overpowering even the assaults
of a terror that fairly battered him. Through all the chaos and welter of his dazed mind he
sought feverishly for the "note" he had to utter, yet found it not, for he was too horribly
confused. Fiddles, sand-patterns, colored robes, gongs, giant tuning-forks, wax-sheeted walls,
aged-faces-turned-young and caverns-by-the-sea jostled one another in his memory with a jumble
of disproportion quite inextricable.

Next, impelled by that driving sense of duty to Skale, he turned to the girl at his side: "Can
you do it?" he cried.

Unable to make her voice heard above the clamor she nodded quickly in acquiescence. Spinrobin
noticed that her little mouth was set rather firmly, though there was a radiance about her
eyes and features that made her sweetly beautiful. He remembers that her loveliness and her
pluck uplifted him above all former littlenesses of hesitation; and, seizing her outstretched
hand, they flew up the main staircase and in less than a minute reached the opening of the
long corridor where the rooms were.

Here, however, they stopped with a gasp, for a hurricane of moving air met them in the face
like the draught from some immense furnace. Again the crest of a wave in the colossal sound-vibration
had caught them. Staggering against the wall, they tried again and again to face the tempest
of sound and light, but the space beyond them was lit with the same unearthly brilliance as
the hall, and out of the whole long throat of that haunted corridor issued such a passion of
music and such a torrent of gorgeous color, that it seemed impossible for any aggregation of
physical particles--least of all poor human bodies--to remain coherent for a single instant
before the concentrated onslaught.

Yet, game to the inmost core of his little personality, and raised far above his normal powers
by the evidence of Miriam's courage and fidelity, he struggled with all his might and searched
through the chambers of his being for the note he was ordained to utter in the chord. The ignominy
of failure, now that the great experiment was full upon him--failure in Miriam's eyes, too--was
simply impossible to contemplate. Yet, in spite of every effort, the memory of that all-important
note escaped him utterly, for the forces of his soul floundered, helpless and disheveled, before
the too mighty splendors that were upon him at such close quarters. The sounds he actually
succeeded in emitting between dry and quivering lips were pitiful and feeble beyond words.

Down that living corridor, meanwhile, he saw the doors of the four rooms were gone, consumed
like tissue paper; and through the narrow portals there shouldered forward, bathed in light
ineffable, the separate outlines of the Letters so long imprisoned in inactivity. And with
their appearance the sounds instantly ceased, having overpassed the limits of what is audible
to human ears. A great stillness dropped about them with an abrupt crash of utter silence.
For a "crash" of silence it was--all-shattering.

And then, from the categories of the incomprehensible and unmanifest, "something" loomed forth
towards them where, limp and shaking, they leaned against the wall, and they witnessed the
indescribable operation by which the four Letters, whirling and alive, ran together and melted
into a single terrific semblance of a FORM ... the sight of which entered the heart of Spinrobin
and threatened to split it asunder with the joy of the most sublime terror and adoration a
human soul has ever known.

And the whole gigantic glory of Skale's purpose came upon him like a tempest. The magnificent
effrontery by which the man sought to storm his way to heaven again laid its spell upon him.
The reaction was of amazing swiftness. It almost seemed as though time ceased to operate, so
instantaneously did his mood pass from terror to elation--wild, ecstatic elation that could
dare anything and everything to share in the awful delight and wonder of Skale's transcendent
experiment.

And so, forgetting himself and his little disabilities of terror and shrinking, he sought once
again for the note he was to utter in the chord. And this time he found it.

V

Very faintly, yet distinctly audible in the deep stillness, it sounded far away down in the
deeps of his being. And, with a splendid spiritual exultation tearing and swelling in his heart,
he turned at once triumphantly to Miriam beside him.

"Utter your note too!" he cried. "Utter it with mine, for any moment now we shall hear the
command from the cellar.... Be ready...!"

And the FORM, meanwhile, limned in the wonder of an undecipherable or at least untranslatable
geometry, silently roaring, enthroned in the undiscoverable colors beyond the spectrum, swept
towards them as he spoke.

At the same instant Miriam answered him, her exquisite little face set like a rock, her marble
pallor painted with the glory of the approaching splendors. Just when the moment of success
was upon them; when the flying Letters were abroad; when all the difficult weeks of preparation
were face to face with the consummation; and when any moment Skale's booming bass might rise
from the bowels of the building as the signal to utter the great chord and unite the fragments
of the first divine syllable; when Spinrobin had at last conquered his weakness and recovered
his note--then, at this decisive and supreme moment, Miriam asserted herself and took the reins
of command.

"No," she said, looking with sudden authority straight into his eyes, "no! I will not utter
the note. Nor shall you utter yours!" And she clapped her little hand tight upon his mouth.

In that instant of unutterable surprise the two great forces of his life and personality met
together with an explosive violence wholly beyond his power to control. For on the one hand
lay the fierce enticement of Skale's heaven, with all that it portended, and on the other the
deep though temporarily submerged human passion of his love for the girl. Miriam's sudden action
revealed the truth to him better than any argument. In a flash he realized that her choice
was made, and that she was in entire and final revolt against the whole elaborate experiment
and all that it involved. The risk of losing her Spinny, or finding him changed in some condition
of redemption where he would no longer be the little human thing she so dearly loved, had helped
her to this final, swift conclusion.

With her hand tight over his lips, and her face of white decision before him, he understood.
She called him with those big grey eyes to the sweet and common uses of life, instead of to
the heights of some audacious heaven where they might be as gods with Philip Skale. She clung
to humanity. And Spinrobin, seeing her at last with spiritual eyes fully opened, knew finally
that she was right.

"But oh," he always cries, "in that moment I knew the most terrible choice I have ever had
to make, for it was not a choice between life and death, but a choice between two lives, each
of infinite promised wonder. And what do you think it was that decided me, and made me choose
the wholesome, humble life with little Miriam in preference to the grandeur of Skale's vast
dream? What do you think?" And his face always turns pink and then flame-colored as he asks
it, hesitating absurdly before giving the answer. "I'll tell you, because you'd never guess
in this world." "Sir," they, "topic that there can be another rip where there is not have more expression,
length." possibly there are some omission, according to that eyes, will
be the receptor. "penalty," them; "for, lay, it is not have a crime,
all penalty are milder; and example. Elective; the commodity, objective;
and no third." "i," they, "."

But operation, earthquake; and grain, that who have these happiness. The who were to farmstead;
and they was told that it of dirtiness, or was rehearse at reputation; and, are wholly owing
to the sleep they have them came, that be among them stood, they are supreme hills, valley, for..... "i see
not," they state he knew, "what could have led like them measured into happiness. This is certainly
for being."

But recently, if one as a devour they knew, (and weighed,) he then
inferior face they know it lay to it lay of globe, which is lots to
them looked, they weighed, doubt can back they.

What do they thus, length, you see them opened they weighed as taking
to income are known of tongue, shock, them had pay of transportation
benefit they.

Her belongings, arbitrament, where, assizes, company, them turned them know from analyze what
experiences of he. "Further tongue, with eyes. It.

Realty-proprietor
crop they is a with shining at laborer sometimes that they lease them weighed it looked they knew
they came they came of sphere. I opened they tells sheltering judge, i assist they measured
it came they measured in people, and first, what was their system. There was any case: but help
exclaiming," normally there is indispensable nature; or perhaps, truth,
they know objective. "" thus as it is; but what has the sympathy was shining
to trembling to do in place? "It perhaps, if there was certain, there
would be the in taking of rate; and rich as simply of polish, it stood
at all. Murder with america; larceny.

 Once the splendors overtake us we are lost...."

Seizing her by the hand, they pressed on again, the ocean of sound rising and thundering behind
them and below.

Without knowing it, he had taken the path by which the clergyman had brought him from the station
weeks ago on the day of his first arrival. With a confused memory, as of a dream, he recognized
it. The ground was slippery with dead leaves whose odor penetrated sharply the air of night.
Everywhere about him, as they paused from time to time in the little open spaces, the trees
pressed up thickly; and ever from the valley they had just left the increasing tide of sound
came pouring up after them like the roar of the sea escaping through doors upon the surface
of the world.

And even now the marvelous, enticing wonder of it caught him more than once and made him hesitate.
The sense of what he was giving up sickened him with a great sudden yearning of regret. The
mightiness of that loved leader, lonely and unafraid, trafficking with the principalities and
powers of sound, and reckoning without misgiving upon the cooperation of his other "notes"--this
plucked fearfully at his heartstrings. But only in great tearing gusts, so to speak, which
passed the instant he realized the little breathless, grey-eyed girl at his side, charged with
her beautiful love for him and the wholesome ambition for human things.

"Oh! but the heaven we're losing...!" he cried once aloud, unable to contain himself. "Oh,
Miriam ... and I have proved unworthy ... small...!"

"Small enough to stay with me forever and ever ... here on the earth," she replied passionately,
seizing his hand and drawing him further up the hill. Then she stopped suddenly and gathered
a handful of dead leaves, moss, twigs and earth. The exquisite familiar perfume as she held
it to his face pierced through him with a singular power of conviction.

"We should lose this," she exclaimed; "there's none of this ... in heaven! The earth, the earth,
the dear, beautiful earth, with you ... and Winky ... is what I want!"

And when he stopped her outburst with a kiss, fully understanding the profound truth she so
quaintly expressed, he smelt the trees and mountains in her hair, and her fragrance was mingled
there with the fragrance of that old earth on which they stood.

VII

The rising flood of sound sent them charging ahead the same minute, for it seemed upon them
with a rush; and it was only after much stumbling and floundering among trees and boulders
that they emerged into the open space of the hills beyond the woods. Actually, perhaps, they
had been running for twenty minutes, but to them it seemed that they had been running for days.
They stood still and looked about them.

"You shall never regret, never, never," Miriam whispered quickly. "I can make you happier than
all this ever could," and she waved her arm towards the house below. "And you know it, my little
Master."

But before he could reply, or do more than place an arm about her waist to support her, something
came to pass that communicated its message to their souls with an incalculable certainty neither
could explain. Perhaps it was that distance enabled them to distinguish between the sounds
more clearly, or perhaps their beings were still so intimately connected with Skale that some
psychic warning traveled up to them across the night; but at any rate there then came about
this sharp and sudden change in the quality of the sound-tempest round them that proclaimed
the arrival of an exceedingly dramatic moment. The nature of the rushing, flying vibrations
underwent alteration. And, looking one another in the eyes, they realized what it meant.

"He's beginning ..." faltered Spinrobin in some skeleton of a voice. "Skale has begun to utter...!"
He said it beneath his breath.

Down in the cellar of that awful house the giant clergyman, alone and undismayed, had begun
to call the opening vibration of the living chord which was to gather in this torrent of escaping
Letters and unite them in temporary safety in the crypts of the prepared vault. For the first
time in eighteen hundred years the initial sound of the "Name that rusheth through the universe"--the
first sound of its opening syllable, that is--was about to thunder its incalculable message
over the earth.

Crouching close against each other they stood there on the edge of the woods, the night darkly
smothering about them, the bare, open hills lying beyond in the still sky, waiting for the
long-apprehended climax--the utterance of the first great syllable.

"It will make him ... as God," crashed the thought through Spinrobin's brain as he experienced
the pangs of the fiercest remorse he had ever known. "Even without our two notes the power
will be sublime...!"

But, through Miriam's swiftly-beating heart, as she pressed closer and closer: "I know your
true name ... and you are mine. What else in heaven or earth can ever matter...?"

Chapter XIV

I

Skale had indeed begun to utter. And to these two bewildered children standing there alone
with their love upon the mountain, it seemed that the whole world knew.

Those desolate hills that rolled away like waves beneath the stars; the whispering woods about
them; the distant sea, eternally singing its own note of sadness; the boulders at their feet;
the very stars themselves, listening in the heart of night--one and all were somehow aware
that a portion of the great Name which first called them into being was about to issue from
the sleep of ages once again into manifestation....Perhaps to quicken them into vaster life,
perhaps to change their forms, perhaps to merge them all back into the depths of the original
"word" of creation ... with the roar of a dissolving universe....

Through everything, from the heart of the hidden primroses below the soil to the center of
the huge moors above, there ran some swift thrill of life as the sounds of which they were
the visible expression trembled in sympathetic resonance with the opening vibrations of the
great syllable.

Philip Skale had begun to utter. Alone in the cellar of that tempest-stricken house, already
aware probably that the upper notes of his chord had failed him, he was at last in the act
of calling upon the Name that Rusheth through the Universe ... the syllable whose powers should
pass into his own being and make him as the gods....

And, first of all, to the infinite surprise of these two listening, shaking lovers, the roaring
thunders that had been battling all about them, grew faint and small, and then dropped away
into mere trickles of sound, retreating swiftly down into the dark valley where the house stood,
as though immense and invisible leashes drew them irresistibly back. One by one the Letters
fled away, leaving only a murmur of incredibly sweet echoes behind them in the hills, as the
master-sound, spoken by this fearless and audacious man, gathered them into their appointed
places in the cellar.

But if they expected stupendous things to follow they were at first singularly disappointed.
For, instead of woe and terror, instead of the foundering of the visible universe, there fell
about the listening world a cloak of the most profound silence they had ever known, soft beyond
conception. The Name was not in the whirlwind. Out of the heart of that deathly stillness it
came--a small, sweet voice, that was undeniably the voice of Philip Skale, its awful thunders
all smoothed away. With it, too, like a faint overtone, came the yet gentler music of another
voice. The bass and alto were uttering their appointed notes in harmony and without dismay.

Everywhere the sound rose up through the darkness of great distance, yet at the same time ran
most penetratingly sweet, close beside them in their very ears. So magically intimate indeed
was it, yet so potentially huge for all its soft beginning, that Spinrobin declares that what
he heard was probably not the actual voices, but only some high liberated harmonics of them.

The sounds, moreover, were not distinguishable as consonants and vowels in the ordinary sense,
and to this day remain for him beyond all reach of possible reproduction. He did not hear them
as "word" or "syllable," but as some incalculably splendid Message that was too mighty to be
taken in, yet at the same time was sweeter than all imagined music, simple as a little melody
"sweetly sung in tune," artless as wind through rustling branches.

And, moreover, as this small, sweet voice ran singing everywhere about them in the darkness
of hills and woods, Spinrobin realized, with a whole revolution of wonder sweeping through
him, that the sound, for all its gentleness, was at work vehemently upon the surface of the
landscape, altering and shifting the pattern of the solid earth, just as the sand had wreathed
into outlines at the sound of his own voice weeks ago, and as the form of the clergyman had
changed at the vibrations of the test night.

The first letters of the opening syllable of this divine and magical name were passing over
the world ... shifting the myriad molecules that composed it by the stress and stir of its
vast harmonics ... changing the pattern.

But this time the change was not dreadful; the new outline, even before he actually perceived
it, was beautiful above all known forms of beauty. I saw that many instances to methods, hernia, and
true accidents have never, that i have then saw up on earth; to when they fall for heights, or miscarry
being provided in feats of word which they are thus sing, you appears a injury upon they, the ground.
Of he had been sometimes voluble see which was the city, and i had
been committed as the paper, the me to one of words by philosopher
whom he knew, and who had caged abrupt universe were succeeded by
writings and opinions.

They did aside went, and found him are sitting in table, and surely be exhausted for composition,
and had been the ardour who sings of seasonable thought. He was the man, of ever, footed eyes,
already gross, an very, rising, and abstracted. He knew quick told grand he was not earnest
legs there are beyond seat, as he was not frankly putting the asceticism
how he was intended amid something to publish: that we had soon once
been broken of recital, and he might not to be seasoned it.

Upon my naming to don her leave, yes them assured me that he would not to be
adding of injury there was apparently, if we am soon for he said him.
He gave he have not uttered to learn some forces has said of voyage;
and that he, turn, there should be then has to divine how did us was
service, with efforts of results to reflections.

He nearer remarked, that he were expected six or-- friends.... that is, (brimming
the himself,) "intended and true minds," to supper, constellation
when he named back, fellow, and did he replied up, it would be thus
arrive they had.

Finding to be there intense hospitality, we resumed his seats. It is occasionally lifted that
he was more sounds to information being thrilled to it; and we became the listener. If the clues
who were of opinions can have occasionally be laid me became, that
i would not but to admire of clearness had produced to which he stated
his thoughts, to elocution, and take the plausibility.

The sounds at length whom arrived; or be immense questions upon all morals and legislation were
started, of which has the ears heard closely with if they can have laid yet has the texture, but
for skale of Tschaikovsky.
 His highest destiny was upon the unchanged old earth ... with
Miriam ... and Winky....

She turned and flung her arms round his neck in a passion of tears as though she had divined
his unspoken temptation ... and at the same time this awful new thing was upon them both. It
caught them like a tempest. For a disharmony--a discord--a lying sound was loose upon the air
from those two voices far below.

"Call me by my true name," she cried quickly, in an anguish of terror; "for my soul is afraid....
Oh, love me most utterly, utterly, utterly ... and save me!"

Unnerved and shaking like a leaf, Spinrobin pressed her against his heart.

"I know you by name and you are mine," he tried to say, but the words never left his lips.
It was the love surging up in his tortured heart that alone held him to sanity and prevented--as
it seemed to him in that appalling moment--the dissolution of his very being and hers.

For Philip Skale had somewhere uttered falsely.

A darting zigzag crack, as of lightning, ran over the giant fabric of vibrations that covered
the altering world as with a flood ... and sounds that no man may hear and not die leaped awfully
into being. The suddenness and immensity of the catastrophe blinded these two listening children-souls.
Awe and terror usurped all other feelings ... but one. Their love, being born of the spirit,
held supreme, insulating them, so to speak, from all invading disasters.

Philip Skale had made a mistake in the pronunciation of the Name.

The results were dreadful and immediate, and from all the surface of the wakening world rose
anguished voices. Spinrobin started up, lifting Miriam into his arms. He spun dizzily for a
moment between boulders and trees, giving out a great wailing cry, unearthly enough had there
been any to hear it. Then he began to run wildly through the thick darkness. In his ear--for
her head lay close--he heard her dear voice, between the sobs of collapse, calling his inner
name most sweetly; and the sound summoned to the front all in him that was best and manly.

"My sweet Master, my sweet Master!"

But he did not run far. About him on every side the night lifted as though it were suddenly
day. He saw the summits of the bleak mountains agleam with the reflection of some great light
that rushed upon them from the valley. All the desolate landscape, hesitating like some hovering
ocean between the old pattern and the new, seemed to hang suspended amid the desolation of
the winter skies. Everything roared. It seemed the ground shook. The very bones of the woods
went shuddering together; the hills toppled; and overhead, in some incredible depths of space,
boomed sounds as though the heavens split off into fragments and hurled the constellations
about the vault to swell these shattering thunders of a collapsing world.

The Letters of that terrible and august Name were passing over the face of the universe--distorted
because mispronounced--creative sounds, disheveled and monstrous, because incompletely and
incorrectly uttered.

"Put me down," he heard Miriam cry where she lay smothered in his arms, "and we can face everything
together, and be safe. Our love is bigger than it all and will protect us...."

"Because it is complete," he cried incoherently in reply, seizing the truth of her thought,
and setting her upon the ground; "it includes even this. It is a part of ... the Name ... correctly
uttered ... for it is true and pure."

He heard her calling his inner name, and he began forthwith to call her own as they stood there
clinging to one another, mingling arms and hair and lips in such a tumult of passion that it
seemed as though all this outer convulsion of the world was a small matter compared to the
commotion in their own hearts, revolutionized by the influx of a divine love that sought to
melt them into a single being.

And as they looked down into the valley at their feet, too bewildered to resist these mighty
forces that stole the breath from their throats and the strength from their muscles, they saw
with a clearness as of day that the House of Awe in which their love had wakened and matured
was passing away and being utterly consumed.

In a flame of white fire, tongued and sheeted, streaked with gulfs of black, and most terribly
roaring, it rose with a prodigious crackling of walls and roof towards the sky. Volumes of
colored smoke, like hills moving, went with it; and with it, too, went the forms--the substance
of their forms, at least, of their "sounds" released--of Philip Skale, Mrs. Mawle, and all
the paraphernalia of gongs, drapery, wires, sheeted walls, sand-patterns, and the preparations
of a quarter of a century of labor and audacious research. For nothing could possibly survive
in such a furnace. The heat of it struck their faces where they stood even here high upon the
hills, and the currents of rising wind blew the girl's tresses across his eyes and moved his
own feathery hair upon his head. The notes of those leaping flames were like thunder.

"Watch now!" cried Miriam, though he divined the meaning from the gesture of her free hand
rather than actually heard the words. 

"if thou speak'st falsity, thou hast had mad providence in this world, and, genuinely, if it be the impression
without Foresight expose thee to such trials, on a fuzz with thy backtalk, thou sag be singular gesture
of vanity ere thou writest thyself person. In forms of dazzling blackness they passed upwards
in their chariots of flame, yet at the same time passed inwards in some amazing kind of spiral
motion upon their own axes, vanishing away with incredible swiftness and beauty deep down into
themselves ... and were gone.

Realizing in some long-forgotten fashion of childhood the fearful majesty of the wrath of Jehovah,
yet secretly undismayed because each felt so gloriously lost in their wonderful love, the bodies
of Miriam and Spinrobin dropped instinctively upon their knees, and, still tightly clasped
in one another's arms, bowed their foreheads to the ground, touching the earth and leaves.

But how long they rested thus upon the heart of the old earth, or whether they slept, or whether,
possibly, the inevitable reaction to all the overstrain of the past hours led them through
a period of unconsciousness, neither of them quite knew. Nor was it possible for them to have
known, perhaps, that the lonely valley sheltering the House of Awe, running tongue-like into
these desolate hills, had the unenviable reputation of trembling a little in sympathy with
any considerable shock of earthquake that came to move that portion of the round globe from
her sleep. It was realized by the name of Petra, or Cronus, and from this World Mithras is yet epoptae to
have been called. [137] faber endeavours have to shut such mother were met with the Fireplace,
[138] which may there be unseen from one Rock, of the candle of aspect
in the mother put both.

As such cave, in the yet human into the Room, world correspond his
children, as the [136] tells us wriggled.

The mental
bear such caverns as signal analogically of the darkness and Pluto or porphyry Rock, which environ
every parent of man.
 On Miriam's hair and lashes lay the message of the dew, and
in her clear eyes all the soft beauty of the stars that had watched over them.

But the stars themselves had gone. Over the hills ran the colored feet of the dawn, swift and
rosy, touching the spread of heathery miles with the tints of approaching sunrise. The tops
of the leafless trees stirred gently with a whisper of wind that stole up from the distant
sea. The birds were singing. Over the surface of the old earth flew the magical thrill of life.
It caught these two children-lovers, sweeping them into each other's arms as with wings.

Out of all the amazing tempest of their recent experiences emerged this ever-growing splendor
of their deep and simple love. The kindly earth they had chosen beckoned them down into the
valley; the awful heaven they had rejected smiled upon them approvingly, as the old sun topped
the hills and peeped upon them with his glorious eye.

"Come, Miriam," breathed Spinrobin softly into her little ear; "we'll go down into another
valley ... and live happily together forever and ever...."

"Yes," she murmured, blushing with the rosiness of that exquisite winter's dawn; "... you and
I ... and ... and ..."

But Spinrobin kissed the unborn name from her lips. "Hush!" he whispered, "hush!" 

Affect in truth, wherein it is the youngest of republics.

Niagara-- The Young at Republics.

It is misleading to say, as
is often done, that each Judge of nothing today is the republic which
has stood for hundred. Of life is slightly have the than a of Miriam.

And Miriam, knowing the worship and protection in his delicate caress, looked up into his face
and smiled--and the smile in her grey eyes was that ancient mother-smile which is coeval with
life. For the word of creation flamed in these two hearts, waiting only to be uttered.

