But Jonathan was made of different stuff, and 'twas rumored by old people that had known the
family for several generations that he favored an ancient forefather by name of Brimpson Drake.
This bygone man was a miser and the richest of the race. He'd lived in the days when we were
at war with France and America, and when Princetown sprang up, and a gert war-prison was built
there to cage all the chaps we got on our hands through winning such a lot o' sea battles.
And Miser Brimpson was said to have made thousands by helping rich fellows to escape from the
prison. Truth and falsehood mixed made up his story as 'twas handed down. But one thing appeared
to be fairly true about it; which was, that when the miser died, and Dunnabridge went to his
cousin, the horseracer, not a penny of his fortune ever came into the sight of living men.
So some said 'twas all nonsense, and he never had no money at all, but only pretended to it;
and others again, declared that he knew too well who'd follow in his shoes at Dunnabridge,
and hid his money accordingly, so that no Drake should have it. For he hated his heirs as only
a miser can hate 'em.

So things stood when Mercy Jane died and Jonathan was left alone. He paid all his relations'
debts, and he had his trouble and the honor of being honorable for his pains. Everybody respected
him something wonderful; but, all the same, a few of his mother's friends always did say that
'twas a pity he put his dead father's good name afore his living mother's life. However, we'm
not built in the pattern of our fellow-creatures, and 'tis only fools that waste time blaming
a man for being himself.

Jonathan went his stern way; and then, in the lonely days after his parent was taken, when
he lived at Dunnabridge, with nought but two hinds and a brace of sheep-dogs, 'twas suddenly
borne in upon his narrow sight that there might be other women still in the world, though his
mother had gone out of it. And he also discovered, doubtless, that a home without a woman therein
be merely the cruel mockery of what a home should be.

A good few folk watched Jonathan to see what he'd do about it, and no doubt a maiden here and
there was interested too; because, though a terrible poor man, he wasn't bad to look at, though
rather hard about the edge of the jaw, and rather short and stern in his manners to human creatures
and beasts alike.

And then beginned his funny courting--if you can call it courting, where a poor man allows
hisself the luxury of pride at the wrong time, and makes a show of hisself in consequence.
At least that's my view; but you must know that a good few, quite as wise as me, took t'other
side, and held that Jonathan covered his name with glory when he changed his mind about Hyssop
Burges. That was her bitter name, but a pleasanter girl never walked on shoe-leather. She was
Farmer Stonewer's niece to White Works, and he took her in for a charity, and always said that
'twas the best day's work as ever he had done. A straight, hardworking, cheerful sort of a
girl, with nothing to name about her very special save a fine shape and a proud way of holding
her head in the air and looking her fellow creatures in the eyes. Proud she was for certain,
and terrible partickler as to her friends; but there happened to be that about Jonathan that
made flint to her steel. He knowed she was penniless, or he'd not have looked at her twice;
and when, after a short, fierce sort of courting, she took him, everybody felt pleased about
it but Farmer Stonewer, who couldn't abide the thought of losing Hyssop, though his wife had
warned him any time this four year that 'twas bound to happen.

Farmer and the girl were sitting waiting for Jonathan one night; and she was a bit nervous,
and he was trying for to calm her.

"Jonathan must be told," she says. "It can't go on no longer."

"Then tell him," says her uncle. "Good powers!" he says; "to see you, one would think the news
was the worst as could ever fall between a pair o' poor lovers, instead of the best."

"I know him a lot better than you," she tells Farmer; "and I know how plaguey difficult he
can be where money's the matter. He very near throwed me over when, in a weak moment, I axed
him to let me buy my own tokening-ring. Red as a turkey's wattles did he flame, and said I'd
insulted him; and now, when he hears the secret, I can't for the life of me guess how he'll
take it."

"'Twas a pity you didn't tell him when he offered for you," declared Hyssop's aunt. "Proud
he is as a silly peacock, and terrible frightened of seeming to look after money, or even casting
his eye where it bides; but he came to you without any notion of the windfall, and he loved
you for yourself, like an honest man; and you loved him the same way; and right well you know
that if your old cousin had left you five thousand pound instead of five hundred, Jonathan
Drake was the right chap for you. He can't blame himself, for not a soul on Dartymoor but us
three has ever heard tell about the money."

"But he'll blame me for having money at all," answered the girl. "He said a dozen times afore
he offered for me, that he'd never look at a woman if she'd got more cash than what he had
himself. That's why I couldn't bring myself to confess to it--and lose him. And, after we was
tokened, it got to be harder still."

"Why not bide till you'm married, then?" asked Mrs. Stonewer. "Since it have gone so long,
let it go longer, and surprise him with the news on the wedding-night--eh, James?"

"No," answered Farmer. "'Enough is as good as a feast.' 'Tis squandering blessings to do that
at such a time. Keep the news till some rainy day, when he's wondering how to get round a tight
corner. That's the moment to tell him; and that's the moment he's least likely to make a face
at the news."

But Hyssop wouldn't put it off no more; she said as she'd not have any further peace till the
murder was out. And that very night, sure enough when Jonathan comed over from Dunnabridge
for his bit of love-making, and the young couple had got the farm parlor to themselves, she
plumped it out, finding him in a very kindly mood. They never cuddled much, for he wasn't built
that way; but he'd not disdain to sit beside her and put his arm around her now and again,
when she picked up his hand and drew it round. Then, off and on, she'd rub her cheek against
his mutton-chop whiskers, till he had to kiss her in common politeness.

Well, Hyssop got it out--Lord alone knows how, as she said afterwards. She got it out, and
told him that an old, aged cousin had died, and left her a nice little skuat[1] of money; and
how she'd never touched a penny but let it goody in the bank; and how she prayed and hoped
'twould help 'em to Dunnabridge; and how, of course, he must have the handling of it, being
a man, and so cruel clever in such things. She went on and on, pretty well frightened to stop
and hear him. But, after she'd said it over about a dozen times, her breath failed her, and
she shut her mouth, and tried to smile, and looked up terrible anxious and pleading at Jonathan.

His hard gray eyes bored into her like a brace of gimlets, and in return for all her talk he
axed but one question.

"How long have you had this here money?" he said.

She told the truth, faltering and shaking under his glare.

"Four years and upwards, Jonathan."

"That's years and years afore I axed you to marry me?"

"Yes, Jonathan."

"And you remember what I said about never marrying anybody as had more than what I have?"

"Yes, Jonathan."

"And you full know how many a time I told you that, after I paid off all my father's debts,
I had nought left, and 'twould be years afore I could build up anything to call money?"

"Yes, Jonathan."

"Very well, then!" he cried out, and his brow crooked down and his fists clenched. "Very well,
you've deceived me deliberate, and if you'd do that in one thing, you would in another. I'm
going out of this house this instant moment, and you can tell your relations why 'tis. I'm
terrible sorry, Hyssop Burges, for no man will ever love you better than what I did; and so
you'd have lived to find out when all this here courting tomfoolery was over, and you'd come
to be my wife. But now I'll have none of you, for you've played with me. And so--so I'll bid
you good-bye!"

He went straight out without more speech; and she tottered, weeping, to her uncle and aunt.
They couldn't believe their senses; and Jimmy Stonewer declared thereon that any man who could
make himself such a masterpiece of a fool as Jonathan had done that night, was better out of
the marriage state than in it. He told Hyssop as she'd had a marvelous escape from a prize
zany; and his wife said the same. But the girl couldn't see it like that. She knowed Jonathan
weren't a prize zany, and his raging pride didn't anger her, for she admired it something wonderful,
and it only made her feel her loss all the crueller to see what a terrible rare, haughty sort
of a chap he was. There were a lot of other men would have had her, and twice as many again,
if they'd known about the money; but they all seemed as tame as robins beside her hawk of a
Jonathan. She had plenty of devil in her, too, when it came to the fighting pitch; and now,
while he merely said that the match was broken off through a difference of opinion, and gave
no reason for it, she set to work with all her might to get him back again, and used her love-sharpened
wits so well as she knew how, to best him into matrimony.

II

In truth she made poor speed. Jonathan was always civil afterwards; but you might as soon have
tried to thaw an iceberg with a box of matches as to get him round again by gentleness and
affection. He was the sort that can't be won with kindness. He felt he'd treated the world
better than the world had treated him, and the thought shriveled his heart a bit. Always shy
and suspicious, you might say; and yet, underneath it, the most honorable and upright and high-minded
man you could wish to meet. Hyssop loved him like her life, and she got a bit poorly in health
after their sad quarrel. Then chance willed it that, going down from Princetown to Plymouth
by train--to see a chemist, and get something to make her eat--who should be in the selfsame
carriage but Mr. Drake and his hind, Thomas Parsons.

There was others there, too; and it fell out that an old fellow as knowed Jonathan's grandfather
before him, brought up the yarn about Miser Brimpson, and asked young Drake if he took any
stock in it.

Of course the man pooh-poohed such foolery, and told the old chap not to talk nonsense like
that in the ear of the nineteenth century; but when Jonathan and Parsons had got out of the
train--which they did do at Yelverton station--Hyssop, as knowed the old man, axed him to tell
more about the miser; and he explained, so well as he knew how, that Brimpson Drake had made
untold thousands out of the French and American prisoners, and that, without doubt, 'twas all
hidden even to this day at Dunnabridge.

"Of course Jonathan's too clever to believe such a tale--like his father before him; but his
grandfather believed it, and the old blid spent half his time poking about the farm. Only,
unfortunately, he didn't have no luck. But 'tis there for sure; and if Jonathan had enough
faith he'd come by it--not by digging and wasting time and labor, but by doing what is right
and proper when you'm dealing with such matters."

"And what might that be?" axed Miss Burges.

Just then, however, the train for Plymouth ran up, and the old man told her that he'd explain
some other time.

"This generation laughs at such things," he said; "but they laugh best who laugh last, and,
for all we can say to the contrary, 'tis nought but his conceit and pride be standing between
that stiff-necked youth and the wealth of a bank."

Hyssop, she thought a lot upon this; but she hadn't no need to go to the old chap again, as
she meant to do, for when she got home, her uncle--Farmer Stonewer--knowed all about the matter,
and told her how 'twas a very rooted opinion among the last generation that a miser's spirit
never could leave its hidden hoard till the stuff was brought to light, and in human hands
once more.

"Millions of good money has been found in that manner, if all we hear is true," declared Farmer
Jimmy; "and if one miser has been known to walk, which nobody can deny, then why shouldn't
another? Them as believe in such dark things--and I don't say I do, and I don't say I don't--them
as know of such mysteries happening in their own recollection, or in the memory of their friends,
would doubtless say that Miser Brimpson still creeps around his gold now and again; and if
that money be within the four corners of Dunnabridge Farm, and if Jonathan happed to be on
the lookout on the rightful night and at the rightful moment, 'tis almost any odds but he might
see his forbear sitting over his money-bags like a hen on a clutch of eggs, and so recover
the hoard."

"But faith's needed for such a deed," Mrs. Stonewer told her niece; "and that pig-headed creature
haven't no faith. Too proud, he is, to believe in anything he don't understand. 'Twas even
so with Lucifer afore him. If you told him--Jonathan--this news, he'd rather let the money
go than set off ghost-hunting in cold blood. Yet there it is: and a humbler-minded fashion
of chap, with the Lord on his side, and a trustful heart in his bosom, might very like recover
all them tubs of cash the miser come by."

"And then he'd have thousands to my poor tens," said Hyssop. "Not that he'd ever come back
to me now, I reckon."

But, all the same, she knowed by the look in Jonathan's eye when they met, that he loved her
still, and that his silly, proud heart was hungering after her yet, though he'd rather have
been drawn under a harrow than show a spark of what was burning there.

And so, upon this nonsense about a buried treasure she set to work again to use her brains,
and see if there might be any road out of the trouble by way of Miser Brimpson's ghost.

What she did, none but them as helped her ever knew, until the story comed round to me; but
'twas the cleverest thing that ever I heard of a maiden doing, and it worked a wonder. In fact,
I can't see but a single objection to the plot, though that was a serious thing for the girl.
It lay in the fact that there had to be a secret between Hyssop and her husband; and she kept
it close as the grave until the grave itself closed over him. Yet 'twas an innocent secret,
too; and, when all's said, 'tisn't a wedded pair in five hundred as haven't each their one
little cupboard fast locked, with the key throwed away.

Six months passed by, and Jonathan worked as only he knowed how to work, and tried to forget
his sad disappointment by dint of toil. Early and late he labored, and got permission to reclaim
a bit of moor for a "newtake," and so added a very fair three acres to his farm. He noticed
about this time that his hind, Parsons, did oft drag up the subject of Miser Brimpson Drake;
and first Jonathan laughed, and then he was angered, and bade Thomas hold his peace. But, though
a very obedient and humble sort of man, Parsons would hark back to the subject, and tell how
his father had known a man who was own brother to a miser; and how, when the miser died, his
own brother had seen him clear as truth in the chimley-corner of his room three nights after
they'd buried him; and how they made search, and found, not three feet from where the ghost
had stood, a place in the wall with seventeen golden sovereigns hid in it, and a white witch's
cure for glanders. Thomas Parsons swore on the Book to this; and he said, as a certain fact,
that New Year's Night was the time most misers walked; and he advised Jonathan not to be dead
to his own interests.

"At least, as a thinking man, that believes in religion and the powers of the air, in Bible
word, you might give it a chance," said Thomas; and then Jonathan told him to shut his mouth,
and not shame Dunnabridge by talking such childish nonsense.

The next autumn Jonathan went up beyond Exeter to buy some of they black-faced, horned Scotch
sheep, and he wanted for Parsons to go with him; but his man falled ill the night afore, and
so young Hacker went instead.

Drake reckoned then that Thomas Parsons would have to leave, for Dunnabridge weren't a place
for sick folk; and he'd made up his mind after he came back to turn the old chap off; but Thomas
was better when the master got home, so the question of sacking him was let be, and Jonathan
contented himself by telling Tom that, if he falled ill again, 'twould be the last time. And
Parsons said that was as it should be; but he hoped that at his age--merely sixty-five or thereabout--he
wouldn't be troubled with his breathing parts again for half a score o' years at least. He
added that he'd done his work as usual while the master was away; but he didn't mention that
Hyssop Burges had made so bold as to call at Dunnabridge with a pony and cart, and that she'd
spent a tidy long time there, and gone all over the house and farmyard, among other places,
afore she drove off again.

And the next chapter of the story was told by Jonathan himself to his two men on the first
day of the following year.

There was but little light of morning just then, and the three of 'em were putting down some
bread and bacon and a quart of tea by candlelight in the Dunnabridge kitchen, when Thomas saw
that his master weren't eating nothing to name. Instead, he went out to the barrel and drawed
himself a pint of ale, and got along by the peat fire with it, and stuck his boots so nigh
the scads as he dared without burning 'em.

"What's amiss?" said Thomas. "Don't say you'm sick, master. And if you be, I lay no liquor
smaller than brandy will fetch you round."

"I ban't sick," answered Jonathan shortly.

He seemed in doubt whether to go on. Then he resolved to do so.

"There was a man in the yard last night," he said; "and, if I thought as either of you chaps
knowed anything about it, I'd turn you off this instant, afore you'd got the bacon out of your
throats."

"A man? Never!" cried Parsons.

"How was it the dog didn't bark?" asked Hacker.

"How the devil do I know why he didn't bark?" answered Jonathan, dark as night, and staring
in the fire. One side of his face was red with the flames, and t'other side blue as steel along
of the daylight just beginning to filter in at the window.

"All I can say is this," he added. "I turned in at half-after ten, just after that brace of
old fools to Brownberry went off to see the New Year in. I slept till midnight; then something
woke me with a start. What 'twas, I can't tell, but some loud sound near at hand, no doubt.
I was going off again when I heard more row--a steady sound repeated over and over. And first
I thought 'twas owls; and then I heard 'twas not. You might have said 'twas somebody thumping
on a barrel; but, at any rate, I woke up, and sat up, and found the noise was in the yard.

"I looked out of my chamber window then, and the moon was bright as day, and the stars sparkling
likewise; and there, down by 'the Judge's Table' where the thorn-tree grows, I see a man standing
by the old barrel as plain as I see you chaps now."

"The Judge's Table" be a wonnerful curiosity at Dunnabridge, and if you go there you'll do
well to ax to see it. 'Tis a gert slab of moorstone said to have come from Crokern Torr, where
the tinners held theer parliament in the ancient times. Now it bides over a water-trough with
a white-thorn tree rising up above.

Jonathan took his breath when he'd got that far, and fetched his pipe out of his pocket and
lighted it. Then he drank off half the beer, and spat in the fire, and went on.

"A man so tall as me, if not taller. He'd got one of them old white beaver hats on his head,
and he wore a flowing white beard, so long as my plough-horse's tail, and he walked up and
down, up and down over the stones, like a sailor walks up and down on the deck of a ship. I
shouted to the chap, but he didn't take no more notice than the moon. Up and down he went;
and then I told him, if he wasn't off inside two minutes, I'd get my fowling-piece and let
fly. Still he paid no heed; and I don't mind saying to you men that, for half a second, I felt
creepy-crawly and goose-flesh down the back. But 'twas only the cold, I reckon, for my window
was wide open, and I'd been leaning out of it for a good while into ten degrees of frost.

"After that, I got angry, and went down house and hitched the gun off the hooks over the mantelpiece,
and ran out, just as I was, in nought but my boots and my nightshirt. The hour was so still
as the grave at first, and the moon shone on the river far below and lit up the eaves and windows;
and then, through the silence, I heard Widecombe bells ringing in the New Year. But the old
night-bird in his top hat was gone. Not a hair of his beard did he leave behind. I looked about,
and then up came the dog, barking like fury, not knowing who I was, dressed that way, till
he heard my voice. And that's the tale; and who be that curious old rascal I'd much like to know."

They didn't answer at first, and the daylight gained on 'em. Then old Parsons spoke up, and
wagged his head and swore that 'twas no man his master had seen, but a creature from the other
world.

"I'll lay my life," he said, "'twas the spectrum of Miser Brimpson as you saw walking; and
I'll take oath by the New Year that 'twas his way to show where his stuff be buried. For God's
sake," he says, "if you don't want to get into trouble with unknown creatures, go out and pull
up the cobblestones, and see if there's anything underneath 'em."

But Jonathan made as though the whole thing was nonsense, and wouldn't let neither Thomas nor
Hacker move a pebble. Only, the next day, he went off to a very old chap called Samuel Windeatt,
whose father had been a boy at the time of the War Prison, and was said to have seen and known
Miser Brimpson in the flesh. And the old man declared that, in his childish days, he'd heard
of the miser, and that he certainly wore a beaver hat and had a white beard a yard long. So
Jonathan came home again more thoughtful than afore, and finally--though he declared that he
was ashamed to do it--he let Tom overpersuade him; and two days after the three men set to
work where Drake had seen the spectrum.

They dug and they dug, this way and that; and Jonathan found nought, and Parsons found nought;
but Hacker came upon a box, and they dragged it out of the earth, and underneath of it was
another box like the first. They was a pair of old rotten wood chests, by the look of them,
made of boards nailed together with rusty nails. No locks or keys they had; but that was no
matter, for they fell abroad at a touch, and inside of them was a lot of plate--candlesticks,
snuffers, tea-kettles, table silver, and the like.

"Thunder!" cried out Jonathan. "'Tis all pewter trash, not worth a five-pound note! Us'll dig
again."

And dig they did for a week, till the farmyard in that place was turned over like a trenched
kitchen-garden. But not another teaspoon did they find.

Meantime, however, somebody as understood such things explained to young Drake that the stuff
unearthed was not pewter, nor yet Britannia metal neither, but old Sheffield plate, and worth
plenty of good money at that.

Jonathan felt too mazed with the event to do anything about it for a month; then he went to
Plymouth, and took a few pieces of the find in his bag. And the man what he showed 'em to was
so terrible interested that nothing would do but he must come up to Dunnabridge and see the
lot. He offered two hundred and fifty pound for the things on the nail; so Jonathan saw very
clear that they must be worth a good bit more. They haggled for a week, and finally the owner
went up to Exeter and got another chap to name a price. In the long run, the dealers halved
the things, and Jonathan comed out with a clear three hundred and fifty-four pound.

III

He wasn't very pleased to talk about his luck, and inquisitive people got but little out of
him on the subject; but, of course, Parsons and Hacker spoke free and often on the subject,
for 'twas the greatest adventure as had ever come to them in their lives; and, from telling
the tale over and over old Parsons got to talk about it as if he'd seen the ghost himself.

Then, after he'd chewed over the matter for a space of three or four months, and spring was
come again, Jonathan Drake went off one night to White Works, just the same as he used to do
when he was courting Hyssop Burges; and there was the little party as usual, with Mrs. Stonewer
knitting, and Farmer reading yesterday's newspaper, and Hyssop sewing in her place by her aunt.

"Well!" says Farmer Jimmy, "wonders never cease! And to see you again here be almost so big
a wonder as that they tell about of the old miser's tea-things. I'm sure we all give you joy,
Jonathan; and I needn't tell you as we was cruel pleased to hear about it."

The young man thanked them very civilly, and said how 'twas a coorious come-along-of-it, and
he didn't hardly know what to think of the matter even to that day.

"I should reckon 'twas a bit of nonsense what I'd dreamed," he said; "but money's money, as
who should know better than me? And, by the same token, I want a few words with Hyssop if she'm
willing to give me ten minutes of her time."

"You'm welcome, Mr. Drake," she said.

He started at the surname; but she got up, and they went off just in the usual way to the parlor;
and when they was there, she sat down in her old corner of the horsehair sofa and looked at
him. But he didn't sit down--not at first. He walked about fierce and talked fierce.

"I'll ax one question afore I go on, and, if the answer's what I fear, I'll trouble you no
more," he said. "In a word, be you tokened again? I suppose you be, for you're not the sort
to go begging. Say it quick if 'tis so, and I'll be off and trouble you no further."

"No, Mr. Drake. I'm free as the day you--you throwed me over," she answered, in a very quiet
little voice.

He snorted at that, but was too mighty thankful to quarrel with the words. She could see he
began to grow terrible excited now; and he walked up and down, taking shorter and shorter strides
this way and that, like a hungry caged tiger as knows his bit of horse-flesh be on the way.

At last he bursts out again.

"There was a lot of lies told about that old plate us found at Dunnabridge. But the truth of
the matter is, that I sold it for three hundred and fifty-four pounds."

"So Tom Parsons told uncle. A wonderful thing; and we sat up all night talking about it, Mr.
Drake."

"For God's sake call me 'Jonathan'!" he cried out; "and tell me--tell me what the figure of
your legacy was. You must tell me--you can't withhold it. 'Tis life or death--to me."

She'd never seen him so excited, but very well knowed what was in his mind.

"If you must know, you must," she answered. "I thought I told you when--when----"

"No, you didn't. I wouldn't bide to hear. Whatever 'twas, you'd got more than me, and that
was all I cared about; but now, if by good fortune 'tis less than mine, you understand----"

"Of course 'tis less. A hundred and eighty pound and the interest--a little over two hundred
in all--is what I've gotten."

"Thank God!" he said.

Then he axed her if she could marry him still, or if she knew too much about his ways and his
ideas to care about doing so.

And she took him again.

       *       *       *       *       *

You see, Hyssop Burges was my mother, and when father died I had the rights of the story from
her. By that time the old people at White Works and Tom Parsons was all gone home, and the
secret remained safe enough with Hyssop herself.

The great difficulty was to put half her money and more, slap into Jonathan's hands without
his knowing how it got there; and, even when the game with the ghost was hit upon, 'twas hard
to know how to do it clever. Hyssop wanted to hide golden sovereigns at Dunnabridge; but her
uncle, with wonnerful wit, pointed out that they'd all be dated; and to get three hundred sovereigns
and more a hundred years old could never have been managed. Then old Thomas, who was in the
secret, of course, and played the part of Miser Brimpson, and got five pounds for doing it
so clever, and another five after from his master, when the stuff was found--he thought upon
trinkums and jewels; and finally Mrs. Stonewer, as had a friend in the business, said that
Sheffield plate would do the trick. And she was right. The plate was bought for three hundred
and eighty pound, and kept close at White Works till 'twas known that Jonathan meant to go
away and bide away some days. Then my mother drove across with it; and Thomas made the cases
wi' old rotten boards, and they drove a slant hole under the cobbles, and got all vitty again
long afore young Drake came back home.

"Me and Jonathan was wedded in the fall of that year," said my mother to me when she told the
tale. "And, come the next New Year's Night, he was at our chamber window as the clock struck
twelve, and bided there looking out into the yard for an hour, keen as the hawk that he was.
He thought I must be asleep; but well I knowed he was seeking for an old man in a beaver hat
wi' a long white beard, and well I knowed he'd never see him again. Of course your father took
good care not to tell me the next morning that he'd been on the lookout for the ghost."

And my mother, in her own last days, oft dwelt on that trick; and sometimes she'd say, as the
time for meeting father got nearer and nearer, "I wonder if 'twill make any difference in heaven,
where no secrets be hid?" And, knowing father so well as I had, I felt very sure as it might
make a mighty lot of difference. So, in my crafty way, I hedged, and told mother that, for
my part, I felt sartain there were some secrets that wouldn't even be allowed to come out at
Judgment Day, for fear of turning heaven into t'other place; and that this was one of 'em.
She always used to fret at that, however.

"I want for it to come out," she'd say. "And, if Jonathan don't know, I shall certainly tell
him. I've kept it in long enough, and I can't trust myself to do it no more. He've got to know,
and, with all eternity to get over it and forgive me in, I have a right to be hopeful that
he will."

Hyssop Drake died in that fixed resolve; and I'm sure I trust that, when 'tis my turn to join
my parents again, I shall find no shadow between 'em. But there's a lot of doubt about it--knowing
father.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Skuat, windfall.

THE HAUNTED PHOTOGRAPH

BY RUTH McENERY STUART

From Harper's Bazar, June, 1909. By permission of Harper's Bazar.

The Haunted Photograph

BY RUTH McENERY STUART

To the ordinary observer it was just a common photograph of a cheap summer hotel. It hung sumptuously
framed in plush, over the Widow Morris's mantel, the one resplendent note in an otherwise modest
home, in a characteristic Queen Anne village.

One had only to see the rapt face of its owner as she sat in her weeds before the picture,
which she tearfully pronounced "a strikin' likeness," to sympathize with the townsfolk who
looked askance at the bereaved woman, even while they bore with her delusion, feeling sure
that her sudden sorrow had set her mind agog.

When she had received the picture through the mail, some months before the fire which consumed
the hotel--a fire through which she had not passed, but out of which she had come a widow--she
proudly passed it around among the friends waiting with her at the post-office, replying to
their questions as they admired it:

"Oh, yes! That's where he works--if you can call it work. He's the head steward in it. All
that row o' winders where you see the awnin's down, they're his--an' them that ain't down,
they're his, too--that is to say, it's his jurisdiction.

"You see, he's got the whip hand over the cook an' the sto'eroom, an' that key don't go out
o' his belt unless he knows who's gettin' what--an' he's firm. Morris always was. He's like
the iron law of the Ephesians."

"What key?"

It was an old lady who held the picture at arm's length, the more closely to scan it, who asked
the question. She asked it partly to know, as neither man nor key appeared in the photograph,
and partly to parry the "historic allusion"--a disturbing sort of fire for which Mrs. Morris
was rather noted and which made some of her most loyal townsfolk a bit shy of her.

"Oh, I ain't referrin' to the picture," she hastened to explain. "I mean the keys thet he always
carries in his belt. The reg'lar joke there is to call him 'St. Peter,' an' he takes it in
good part, for, he declares, if there is such a thing as a similitude to the kingdom o' Heaven
in a hotel, why, it's in the providential supply department which, in a manner, hangs to his
belt. He always humors a joke--'specially on himself."

No one will ever know through what painful periods of unrequited longing the Widow Morris had
sought solace in this, her only cherished "relic," after the "half hour of sky-works" which
had made her, in her own vernacular, "a lonely, conflagrated widow, with a heart full of ashes,"
before the glad moment when it was given her to discern in it an unsuspected and novel value.
First had come, as a faint gleam of comfort, the reflection that although her dear lost one
was not in evidence in the picture, he had really been inside the building when the photograph
was taken, and so, of course, he must be in there yet!

At first she experienced a slight disappointment that her man was not visible, at door or window.
But it was only a passing regret. It was really better to feel him surely and broadly within--at
large in the great house, free to pass at will from one room to another. To have had him fixed,
no matter how effectively, would have been a limitation. As it was, she pressed the picture
to her bosom as she wondered if, perchance, he would not some day come out of his hiding to
meet her.

It was a muffled pleasure and tremulously entertained at first, but the very whimsicality of
it was an appeal to her sensitized imagination, and so, when finally the thing did really happen,
it is small wonder that it came somewhat as a shock.

It appears that one day, feeling particularly lonely and forlorn, and having no other comfort,
she was pressing her tear-stained face against the row of window-shutters in the room without
awnings, this being her nearest approach to the alleged occupant's bosom, when she was suddenly
startled by a peculiar swishing sound, as of wind-blown rain, whereupon she lifted her face
to perceive that it was indeed raining, and then, glancing back at the photograph, she distinctly
saw her husband rushing from one window to another, drawing down the sashes on the side of
the house that would have been exposed to the real shower whose music was in her ears.

This was a great discovery, and, naturally enough, it set her weeping, for, she sobbed, it
made her feel, for a minute, that she had lost her widowhood and that, after the shower, he'd
be coming home.

It might well make any one cry to suddenly lose the pivot upon which his emotions are swung.
At any rate, Mrs. Morris cried. She said that she cried all night, first because it seemed
so spooky to see him whose remains she had so recently buried on faith, waiving recognition
in the débris, dashing about now in so matter-of-fact a way.

And then she wept because, after all, he did not come.

This was the formal beginning of her sense of personal companionship in the picture--companionship,
yes, of delight in it, for there is even delight in tears--in some situations in life. Especially
is this true of one whose emotions are her only guides, as seems to have been the case with
the Widow Morris.

After seeing him draw the window-sashes--and he had drawn them down, ignoring her presence--she
sat for hours, waiting for the rain to stop. It seemed to have set in for a long spell, for
when she finally fell asleep, "from sheer disappointment, 'long towards morning," it was still
raining, but when she awoke the sun shone and all the windows in the picture were up again.

This was a misleading experience, however, for she soon discovered that she could not count
upon any line of conduct by the man in the hotel, as the fact that it had one time rained in
the photograph at the same time that it rained outside was but a coincidence and she was soon
surprised to perceive all quiet along the hotel piazza, not even an awning flapping, while
the earth, on her plane, was torn by storms.

On one memorable occasion when her husband had appeared, flapping the window-panes from within
with a towel, she had thought for one brief moment that he was beckoning to her, and that she
might have to go to him, and she was beginning to experience terror, with shortness of breath
and other premonitions of sudden passing, when she discovered that he was merely killing flies,
and she flurriedly fanned herself with the asbestos mat which she had seized from the stove
beside her, and staggered out to a seat under the mulberries, as she stammered:

"I do declare, Morris'll be the death of me yet. He's 'most as much care to me dead as he was
alive--I made sure--made sure he'd come after me!"

Then, feeling her own fidelity challenged, she hastened to add:

"Not that I hadn't rather go to him than to take any trip in the world, but--but I never did
fancy that hotel, and since I've got used to seein' him there so constant, I feel sure that's
where we'd put up. My belief is, anyway, that if there's hereafters for some things, there's
hereafters for all. From what I can gather, I reckon I'm a kind of a cross between a Swedenborgian
and a Gates-ajar--that, of course, engrafted on to a Methodist. Now, that hotel, when it was
consumed by fire, which to it was the same as mortal death, why, it either ascended into Heaven,
in smoke, or it fell, in ashes--to the other place. If it died worthy, like as not it's undergoin'
repairs now for a 'mansion,' jasper cupalos, an'--but, of course, such as that could be run
up in a twinklin'.

"Still, from what I've heard, it's more likely gone down to its deserts. It would seem hard
for a hotel with so many awned-off corridors an' palmed embrasures with teet-a-teet sofas,
to live along without sin."

She stood on her step-ladder, wiping the face of the picture as she spoke, and as she began
to back down she discovered the cat under her elbow, glaring at the picture.

"Yes, Kitty! Spit away!" she exclaimed. "Like as not you see even more than I do!"

And as she slipped the ladder back into the closet, she remarked--this to herself, strictly:

"If it hadn't 'a' been for poor puss, I'd 'a' had a heap more pleasure out o' this picture
than what I have had--or will be likely to have again. The way she's taken on, I've almost
come to hate it!"

A serpent had entered her poor little Eden--even the green-eyed monster constrictor, who, if
given full swing, would not spare a bone of her meager comfort.

A neighbor who chanced to come in at the time, unobserved overheard the last remark, and Mrs.
Morris, seeing that she was there, continued in an unchanged tone, while she gave her a chair:

"Of course, Mis' Withers, you can easy guess who I refer to. I mean that combly-featured wench
that kep' the books an' answered the telephone at the hotel--when she found the time from her
meddlin'. Somehow, I never thought about her bein' burned in with Morris till puss give her
away. Puss never did like the girl when she was alive, an' the first time I see her scratch
an' spit at the picture, just the way she used to do whenever she come in sight, why, it just
struck me like a clap o' thunder out of a clear sky that puss knew who she was a-spittin' at--an'
I switched around sudden--an' glanced up sudden--an'----

"Well, what I seen, I seen! There was that beautied-up typewriter settin' in the window-sill
o' Morris's butler's pantry--an' if she didn't wink at me malicious, then I don't know malice
when I see it. An' she used her fingers against her nose, too, most defiant and impolite. So
I says to puss I says, 'Puss,' I says, 'there's goin's on in that hotel, sure as fate. Annabel
Bender has got the better o' me, for once!' An', tell the truth, it did spoil the photograph
for me for a while, for, of course, after that, if I didn't see him somewheres on the watch
for his faithful spouse, I'd say to myself, 'He's inside there with that pink-featured hussy!'

"You know, a man's a man, Mis' Withers--'specially Morris, an' with his lawful wife cut off
an' indefinitely divorced by a longevitied family--an' another burned in with him--well, his
faithfulness is put to a trial by fire, as you might say. So, as I say, it spoiled the picture
for me, for a while.

"An', to make matters worse, it wasn't any time before I recollected that Campbellite preacher
thet was burned in with them, an' with that my imagination run riot, an' I'd think to myself,
'If they're inclined, they cert'n'y have things handy!' Then I'd ketch myself an' say, 'Where's
your faith in Scripture, Mary Marthy Matthews, named after two Bible women an' born daughter
to an apostle? What's the use?' I'd say, an' so, first an' last, I'd get a sort o' alpha an'
omega comfort out o' the passage about no givin' in marriage. Still, there'd be times, pray
as I would, when them three would loom up, him an' her--an' the Campbellite preacher. I know
his license to marry would run out in time, but for eternity, of course we don't know. Seem
like everything would last forever--an' then again, if I've got a widow's freedom, Morris must
be classed as a widower, if he's anything.

"Then I'd get some relief in thinkin' about his disposition. Good as he was, Morris was fickle-tasted,
not in the long run, but day in an' day out, an' even if he'd be taken up with her he'd get
a distaste the minute he reelized she'd be there interminable. That's Morris. Why, didn't he
used to get nervous just seein' me around, an' me his own selected? An' didn't I use to make
some excuse to send him over to Mame Maddern's ma's ma's--so's he'd be harmlessly diverted?
She was full o' talk, and she was ninety-odd an' asthmatic, but he'd come home from them visits
an' call me his child wife. I've had my happy moments!

"You know a man'll get tired of himself, even, if he's condemned to it too continual, and think
of that blondinetted typewriter for a steady diet--to a man like Morris! Imagine her when her
hair dye started to give out--green streaks in that pompadour! So, knowin' my man, I'd take
courage an' I'd think, 'Seein' me cut off, he'll soon be wantin' me more than ever'--an' so
he does. It's got so now that, glance up at that hotel any time I will, I can generally find
him on the lookout, an' many's the time I've stole in an' put on a favoryte apron o' his with
blue bows on it, when we'd be alone an' nobody to remark about me breakin' my mournin'. Dear
me, how full o' b'oyancy he was--a regular boy at thirty-five, when he passed away!"

Was it any wonder that her friends exchanged glances while Mrs. Morris entertained them in
so droll a way? Still, as time passed and she not only brightened in the light of her delusion,
but proceeded to meet the conditions of her own life by opening a small shop in her home, and
when she exhibited a wholesome sense of profit and loss, her neighbors were quite ready to
accept her on terms of mental responsibility.

With occupation and a modest success, emotional disturbance was surely giving place to an even
calm, when, one day, something happened.

Mrs. Morris sat behind her counter, sorting notions, puss asleep beside her, when she heard
the swish of thin silk, with a breath of familiar perfume, and, looking up, whom did she see
but the blond lady of her troubled dreams striding bodily up to the counter, smiling as she
swished.

At the sight the good woman first rose to her feet, and then as suddenly dropped--flopped--breathless
and white--backward--and had to be revived, so that for the space of some minutes things happened
very fast--that is, if we may believe the flurried testimony of the blonde, who, in going over
it, two hours later, had more than once to stop for breath.

"Well, say!" she panted. "Did you ever! Such a turn as took her! I hadn't no more 'n stepped
in the door when she succumbed, green as the Ganges, into her own egg-basket--an' it full!
An' she was on the eve o' floppin' back into the prunin' scizzor points up, when I scrambled
over the counter, breakin' my straight-front in two, which she's welcome to, poor thing! Then
I loaned her my smellin'-salts, which she held her breath against until it got to be a case
of smell or die, an' she smelt! Then it was a case of temporary spasms for a minute, the salts
spillin' out over her face, but when the accident evaporated, an' she opened her eyes, rational,
I thought to myself, 'Maybe she don't know she's keeled an' would be humiliated if she did,'
so I acted callous, an' I says, offhand like, I says, pushin' her apron around behind her over
its vice versa, so's to cover up the eggs, which I thought had better be broke to her gently,
I says, 'I just called in, Mis' Morris, to borry your recipe for angel-cake--or maybe get you
to bake one for us' (I knew she baked on orders). An' with that, what does she do but go over
again, limp as wet starch, down an' through every egg in that basket, solid an' fluid!

"Well, by this time, a man who had seen her at her first worst an' run for a doctor, he come
in with three, an' whilst they were bowin' to each other an' backin', I giv' 'er stimulus an'
d'rectly she turned upon me one rememberable gaze, an' she says, 'Doctors,' says she, 'would
you think they'd have the gall to try to get me to cook for 'em? They've ordered angel-ca----'
An' with that, over she toppled again, no pulse nor nothin', same as the dead!"

While the blonde talked she busied herself with her loosely falling locks, which she tried
vainly to entrap.

"An' yet you say she ain't classed as crazy? I'd say it of her, sure! An' so old Morris is
dead--burned in that old hotel! Well, well! Poor old fellow! Dear old place! What times I've had!"

She spoke through a mouthful of gilt hairpins and her voice was as an Æolian harp.

"An' he burned in it--an' she's a widow yet! Yes, I did hear there'd been a fire, but you never
can tell. I thought the chimney might 'a' burned out--an' I was in the thick of bein' engaged
to the night clerk at the Singin' Needles Hotel at Pineville at the time--an' there's no regular
mail there. I thought the story might be exaggerated. Oh no, I didn't marry the night clerk.
I'm a bride now, married to the head steward, same rank as poor old Morris--an' we're just
as happy! I used to pleg Morris about her hair, but I'd have to let up on that now. Mine's
as red again as hers. No, not my hair--mine's hair. It's as red as a flannen drawer, every
bit an' grain!

"But, say," she added, presently, "when she gets better, just tell her never mind about that
reci-pe. I copied it out of her reci-pe book whilst she was under the weather, an' dropped
a dime in her cash-drawer. I recollect how old Morris used to look forward to her angel-cakes
week-ends he'd be goin' home, an' you know there's nothin' like havin' ammunition, in marriage,
even if you never need it. Mine's in that frame of mind now that transforms my gingerbread
into angel-cake, but the time may come when I'll have to beat my eggs to a fluff even for angel-cake,
so's not to have it taste like gingerbread to him.

"Oh no, he's not with me this trip. I just run down for a lark to show my folks my ring an'
things, an' let 'em see it's really so. He give me considerable jewelry. His First's taste
run that way, an' they ain't no children.

"Yes, this amethyst is the weddin'-ring. I selected that on account of him bein' a widower.
It's the nearest I'd come to wearin' second mournin' for a woman I can't exactly grieve after.
The year not bein' up is why he stayed home this trip. He didn't like to be seen traversin'
the same old haunts with Another till it was up. I wouldn't wait because, tell the truth, I
was afraid. He ain't like a married man with me about money yet, an' it's liable to seize him
any day. He might say that he couldn't afford the trip, or that we couldn't, which would amount
to the same thing. I rather liked him bein' a little ticklish about goin' around with me for
a while. It's one thing to do a thing an' another to be brazen about it--it----

"But if she don't get better"--the reversion was to the Widow Morris--"if she don't get her
mind poor thing! there's a fine insane asylum just out of Pineville, an' I'd like the best
in the world to look out for her. It would make an excuse for me to go in. They say they have
high old times there. Some days they let the inmates do 'most any old thing that's harmless.
They even give 'em unpoisonous paints an' let 'em paint each other up. One man insisted he
was a barber-pole an' ringed himself accordingly, an' then another chased him around for a
stick of peppermint candy. Think of all that inside a close fence, an' a town so dull an' news-hungry----

"Yes, they say Thursdays is paint days, an', of course, Fridays, they are scrub days. They
pass around turpentine an' hide the matches. But, of course, Mis' Morris may get the better
of it. 'Tain' every woman that can stand widowin', an' sometimes them that has got the least
out of marriage will seem the most deprived to lose it--so they say."

The blonde was a person of words.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Mrs. Morris had fully revived and, after a restoring "night's sleep" had got her bearings,
and when she realized clearly that her supposed rival had actually shown up in the flesh, she
visibly braced up. Her neighbors understood that it must have been a shock "to be suddenly
confronted with any souvenir of the hotel fire"--so one had expressed it--and the incident
soon passed out of the village mind.

It was not long after this incident that the widow confided to a friend that she was coming
to depend upon Morris for advice in her business.

"Standing as he does, in that hotel door--between two worlds, as you might say--why, he sees
both ways, and oftentimes he'll detect an event on the way to happening, an' if it don't move
too fast, why, I can hustle an' get the better of things." It was as if she had a private wire
for advance information--and she declared herself happy.

Indeed, a certain ineffable light such as we sometimes see in the eyes of those newly in love
came to shine from the face of the widow, who did not hesitate to affirm, looking into space
as she said it:

"Takin' all things into consideration, I can truly say that I have never been so truly and
ideely married as since my widowhood." And she smiled as she added:

"Marriage, the earthly way, is vicissitudinous, for everybody knows that anything is liable
to happen to a man at large."

There had been a time when she lamented that her picture was not "life-sized" as it would seem
so much more natural, but she immediately reflected that that hotel would never have gotten
into her little house, and that, after all, the main thing was having "him" under her own roof.

As the months passed Mrs. Morris, albeit she seemed serene and of peaceful mind, grew very
white and still. Fire is white in its ultimate intensity. The top, spinning its fastest, is
said to "sleep"--and the dancing dervish is "still." So, misleading signs sometimes mark the
danger-line.

"Under-eating and over-thinking" was what the doctor said while he felt her translucent wrist
and prescribed nails in her drinking-water. If he secretly knew that kind nature was gently
letting down the bars so that a waiting spirit might easily pass--well, he was a doctor, not
a minister. His business was with the body, and he ordered repairs.

She was only thirty-seven and "well" when she passed painlessly out of life. It seemed to be
simply a case of going.

There were several friends at her bedside the night she went, and to them she turned, feeling
the time come:

"I just wanted to give out that the first thing I intend to do when I'm relieved is to call
by there for Morris"--she lifted her weary eyes to the picture as she spoke--"for Morris--and
I want it understood that it'll be a vacant house from the minute I depart. So, if there's
any other woman that's calculatin' to have any carryin's-on from them windows--why, she'll
be disappointed--she or they. The one obnoxious person I thought was in it wasn't. My imagination
was tempted of Satan an' I was misled. So it must be sold for just what it is--just a photographer's
photograph. If it's a picture with a past, why, everybody knows what that past is, and will
respect it. I have tried to conquer myself enough to bequeath it to the young lady I suspicioned,
but human nature is frail, an' I can't quite do it, although doubtless she would like it as
a souvenir. Maybe she'd find it a little too souvenirish to suit my wifely taste, and yet--if
a person is going to die----

"I suppose I might legate it to her, partly to recompense her for her discretion in leaving
that hotel when she did--an' partly for undue suspicion----

"There's a few debts to be paid, but there's eggs an' things that'll pay them, an' there's
no need to have the hen settin' in the window showcase any longer. It was a good advertisement,
but I've often thought it might be embarrassin' to her." She was growing weaker, but she roused
herself to amend:

"Better raffle the picture for a dollar a chance an' let the proceeds go to my funeral--an'
I want to be buried in the hotel-fire general grave, commingled with him--an' what's left over
after the debts are paid, I bequeath to her--to make amends--an' if she don't care to come
for it, let every widow in town draw for it. But she'll come. 'Most any woman'll take any trip,
if it's paid for--But look!" she raised her eyes excitedly toward the mantel, "Look! What's
that he's wavin'? It looks--oh yes, it is--it's our wings--two pairs--mine a little smaller.
I s'pose it'll be the same old story--I'll never be able to keep up--to keep up with him--an'
I've been so hap----

"Yes, Morris--I'm comin'----"

And she was gone--into a peaceful sleep from which she easily passed just before dawn.

When all was well over, the sitting women rose with one accord and went to the mantel, where
one even lighted an extra candle more clearly to scan the mysterious picture.

Finally one said:

"You may think I'm queer, but it does look different to me already!"

"So it does," said another, taking the candle. "Like a house for rent. I declare, it gives
me the cold shivers."

"I'll pay my dollar gladly, and take a chance for it," whispered a third, "but I wouldn't let
such a thing as that enter my happy home----"

"Neither would I!"

"Nor me, neither. I've had trouble enough. My husband's first wife's portrait has brought me
discord enough--an' it was a straight likeness. I don't want any more pictures to put in the
hen-house loft."

So the feeling ran among the wives.

"Well," said she who was blowing out the candle, "I'll draw for it--an' take it if I win it,
an' consider it a sort of inheritance. I never inherited anything but indigestion."

The last speaker was a maiden lady, and so was she who answered, chuckling:

"That's what I say! Anything for a change. There'd be some excitement in a picture where a
man was liable to show up. It's more than I've got now. I do declare it's just scandalous the
way we're gigglin', an' the poor soul hardly out o' hearin'. She had a kind heart, Mis' Morris
had, an' she made herself happy with a mighty slim chance----"

"Yes, she did--and I only wish there'd been a better man waitin' for her in that hotel."

THE GHOST THAT GOT THE BUTTON

BY WILL ADAMS

From Collier's Weekly, May 24, 1913. By permission of Collier's Weekly and Will Adams.

The Ghost that Got the Button

BY WILL ADAMS

One autumn evening, when the days were shortening and the darkness fell early on Hotchkiss
and the frost was beginning to adorn with its fine glistening lace the carbine barrels of the
night sentries as they walked post, Sergeants Hansen and Whitney and Corporal Whitehall had
come to Stone's room after supper, feeling the need common to all men in the first cold nights
of the year for a cozy room, a good smoke, and congenial companionship.

The steam heat, newly turned on, wheezed and whined through the radiator: the air was blue
and dense with tobacco smoke; the three sergeants reposed in restful, if inelegant attitudes,
and Whitehall, his feet on the window sill and his wooden chair tilted back, was holding forth
between puffs at a very battered pipe about an old colored woman who kept a little saloon in town.

"So she got mad at those K troop men," he said. "An' nex' day when Turner stopped there for
a drink she says: 'You git outer yere! You men fum de Arsenic wid de crossbones on you caps,
I ain't lettin' you in; but de Medical Corpses an' de Non-efficient Officers, dey may come.'"

The laugh that followed was interrupted by the approach of a raucous, shrieking noise that
rose and fell in lugubrious cadence. "What the deuce!" exclaimed Whitehall, starting up.

"That's Bill," explained Stone. "Bill Sullivan. He thinks he's singin'. Funny you never heard
him before, Kid, but then he's not often taken that way, thank the Lord."

"Come in, Bill," he called, "an' tell us what's the matter. Feel sick? Where's the pain?" he
asked as big Bill appeared in the doorway.

"Come in, hombre, an' rest yo'self," invited Whitney, and hospitably handed over his tobacco-pouch.
"What was that tune yo'all were singin' out yonder?"

"Thanks," responded Bill, settling down. "That there tune was 'I Wonder Where You Are To-night,
My Love.'"

"Sounded like 'Sister's Teeth Are Plugged with Zinc,'" commented Whitney.

"Or 'Lookin' Through the Knot Hole in Papa's Wooden Leg,'" said Whitehall.

"Or 'He Won't Buy the Ashman a Manicure Set,'" added Stone.

"No," reiterated Bill solemnly. "It was like I told yer; 'I Wonder Where You Are To-night,
My Love,' and it's a corker, too! I seen a feller an' a goil sing it in Kelly's Voddyville
Palace out ter Cheyenne onct. Foist he'd sing one voise an' then she'd sing the nex'. He was
dressed like a soldier, an' while he sang they was showin' tabloids o' what the goil was a-doin'
behind him; an' then when she sang her voise he'd be in the tabloid, an' when it got ter the
last voise, an' he was dyin' on a stretcher in a ambulance, everybody in the house was a-cryin'
so yer could hardly hear her. It was great! My!" continued Bill, spreading out his great paws
over the radiator, "ain't this the snappy evenin'? Real cold. Somehow it 'minds me of the cold
we had in China that time of the Boxers, after we'd got ter the Legations; the nights was cold
just like this is."

"Why, Bill," said Whitney, "I never knew yo'all were there then. Why did yo' never tell us
befo'? What were yo' with?"

"Fourteenth Infantry," responded Bill proudly. "It's a great ol' regiment--don't care if they
are doughboys."

"What company was you in?" inquired Hansen, ponderously taking his pipe from his mouth and
breaking silence for the first time.

"J Company, same as this."

At this reply Stone opened his mouth abruptly to say something, but thought better of it and
shut up again.

"It was blame cold them nights a week or so after we was camped in the Temple of Agriculture
(that's what they called it--I dunno why), but say! the heat comin' up from Tientsin was fryin'!
It was jus' boilin', bakin', an' bubblin'--worse a heap than anythin' we'd had in the islands.
We chucked away mos' every last thing on that hike but canteens an' rifles. It was a darn fool
thing ter do--the chuckin' was, o' course--but it come out all right, 'cause extree supplies
follered us up on the Pie-ho in junks. Ain't that a funny name fer a river? Pie-ho? Every time
I got homesick I'd say that river, an' then I'd see Hogan's Dairy Lunch fer Ladies an' Gents
on the ol' Bowery an' hear the kid Mick Hogan yellin': 'Draw one in the dark! White wings--let
her flop! Pie-ho!' an' it helped me a heap." Bill settled himself and stretched.

"But what I really wanted to tell youse about," said he, "was somepin' that happened one o'
these here cold nights. It gits almighty cold there in September, an' it was sure the spookiest
show I ever seen. Even Marm Haggerty's table rappin's in Hester Street never come up to it.

"There was three of us fellers who ran in a bunch them days: me an' Buck Dugan, my bunkie,
from the Bowery like me (he was a corporal), an' Ranch Fields--we called him that 'cause he
always woiked on a ranch before he come into the Fourteenth. They was great fellers, Buck an'
Ranch was. Buck, now--yer couldn't phase him, yer couldn't never phase him, no matter what
sort o' job yer put him up against he'd slide through slick as a greased rat. The Cap'n, he
knew it, too. Onct when we was fightin' an' hadn't no men to spare, he lef' Buck on guard over
about twenty-five Boxer prisoners in a courtyard an' tells him he dassent let one escape. But
Buck wants ter git into the fight with the rest of the boys, an' when he finds that if he leaves
them Chinos loose in the yard alone they'll git out plenty quick, what does he do but tie 'em
tight up by their pigtails to some posts. He knows they can't undo them tight knots backwards,
an' no Chink would cut his pigtail if he did have a knife--he'd die foist--an' so Buck skidoos
off to the fight, an', sure enough, when the Cap'n wants them Boxers, they're ready, tied up
an' waitin'. That was his sort, an', gee, but he was smart!

"We was all right int'rested in them Allies, o' course, an' watched 'em clost; but, 'Bill,'
says Buck ter me one night, 'its been woikin in me nut that these here fellers ain't so different
from what we know a'ready. Excep' fer their uniform an' outfits, we've met 'em all before but
the Japs. Why, look a-here,' says he, 'foist, there's the white men--the English--ain't they
jus' like us excep' that they're thicker an' we're longer? An' their Injun niggers--ain't we
seen their clothes in the comic op'ras an' them without their clothes in the monkey cage at
Central Park? An' their Hong-kong China Regiment an' all the other Chinos is jus' the same
as yer meet in the pipe joints in Mott Street. Then,' says he, 'come all the Dagos. These leather
necks of Macaroni Dagos we've seen a swarmin' all over Mulberry Bend an' Five Points; the Sauerkraut
Dagos looks fer all the woild like they was goin' ter a Schützenfest up by High Bridge; the
Froggie Dagos you'll find packed in them Frenchy restaraws in the Thirties--where yer git blue
wine--and them Vodki Dagos only needs a pushcart ter make yer think yer in Baxter Street.'

"Buck, he could sure talk, but Ranch, he wasn't much on chin-chin. Little an' dark an' quiet
he was, an' jus' crazy fer dogs. Any old mutt'd do fer him--jus' so's it was in the shape of
a pup. He was fair wild fer 'em. He picked up a yeller cur out there the day after the Yangtsin
fight, an' that there no-account, mangy, flea-bitten mutt had ter stay with us the whole time.
If the pup didn't stand in me an' Buck an' Ranch, he swore he'd quit too, so we had to let
him come, an' he messed an' bunked with our outfit right along. Ranch named him Daggett, after
the Colonel, which was right hard on the C. O., but I bet Ranch thought he was complimentin'
him. Why, Ranch considered himself honored if any of the pup's fleas hopped off on him. The
pup he kep' along with us right through everything; Ranch watchin' him like the apple of his
eye, an' he hardly ever was out of our sight, till one night about a week after we quartered
in the temple he didn't turn up fer supper. He was always so reg'lar at his chow that Ranch
he begin ter git the squirms an' when come taps an' Daggett hadn't reported, Ranch had the
razzle-dazzles.

"Nex' mornin' the foist thing he must go hunt that pup, an' went a scoutin' all day, me an'
Buck helpin' him--but nary pup; an' come another supper without that miser'ble mutt, an' Ranch
was up an alley all right, all right. He was all wore out, an' I made him hit the bunk early
an' try ter sleep; but, Lord! No sooner he'd drop off 'n he git ter twitchin' an' hitchin'
an' wake up a-yelpin' fer Daggett. Long about taps, Buck, who's been out on a private reconnoissance,
comes back an' whispers ter me: 'Ssst, Bill! The cur's found! Don't tell Ranch; the bloke'd
die of heart failure. I struck his trail an' follered it--an' say, Bill, what'n thunder do
yer think? Them heathen Chinos has et him!' Lord, now, wouldn't that jolt youse? Them Chinos
a-eatin' Daggett! It give me an awful jar, an' Buck he felt it, too. That there mutt had acted
right decent, an' we knew Ranch would have bats in the belfry fer fair if he hoid tell o' the
pup's finish; so says Buck; 'Let's not tell him, 'cause he's takin' on now like he'd lost mother
an' father an' best goil an' all, an' if he knew Daggett was providin' chow fer Chinos he'd
go clean bug house an' we'd have ter ship him home ter St. Elizabeth.'

"I says O. K. ter that, an' we made it up not ter let on ter Ranch; an' now here comes the
spook part yer been a-waitin' fer.

"Four or five nights later I was on guard, an' my post was the farthest out we had on the north.
There was an ol' road out over that way, an' I'd hoid tell it led ter a ol' graveyard, but
I hadn't never been there myself an' hadn't thought much about it till 'long between two an'
three o'clock, as I was a-hikin' up an down, when somepin' comes a-zizzin' down the road hell-fer-leather
on to me, a-yellin' somepin' fierce. Gee, but I was skeered! I made sure it was a spook, an'
there wasn't a bit o' breath left in me. I was all to the bad that time fer sure. Before I
had time ter think even, that screamin', streakin' thing was on me an a-grabbin' roun' my knees;
an' then I see it was one o' them near-Christian Chinos, an' he's skeered more'n me even. His
eyes had popped clean out'n their slits, an' his tongue was hangin' out by the roots, he was
that locoed. I raised the long yell fer corporal of the guard, which happened, by good luck,
ter be Buck, an' when he come a-runnin', thinkin' from the whoops I give we was bein' rushed
by the hole push of Boxers, the two of us began proddin' at the Chink ter find out what was
doin'. Took us some time, too, with him bein' in such a flutter an' hardly able ter even hand
out his darn ol' pigeon English, that sounds like language comin' out of a sausage machine.
When we did savvy his line of chop-suey talk, we found out he'd seen a ghost in the graveyard,
an' not only seen it but he knew who the spook was an' all about him. We was gittin' some serious
ourselves an' made him tell us.

"Seems it was a mandarin--that's a sort o' Chink police-court judge (till I got ter Tientsin
I always thought they was little oranges), an' this tangerine's--I mean mandarin's--name was
Wu Ti Ming, an' he'd been a high mucky-muckraker in his day, which was two or three hundred
years back. But the Emprer caught him deep in some sort o' graft an' took away his button an'
all o' his dough.

"'Lord!' says Buck when we come ter this, 'don't that prove what heathens Chinks is? Only one
button ter keep on their clothes with, an' the Emprer he kin take it away! What did this here
Judge Ming do then, John? Use string or pins?' This here John didn't seem ter savvy, but he
said that the mandarin took on so fer his button an' his loss of pull in the ward that it was
sure sad ter see, an' by an' by the Emprer got busy again with him an' had him finished up
fer keeps; had him die the 'death of a thousand cuts,' says John. It sounded fierce ter me,
but Buck he says:

"'Pshaw! Anybody who's been shaved reg'lar by them lady barbers on Fourth Avenyer would 'a'
give the Emprer the merry ha-ha----'

"After Ming was cut up they took the remains of his corpse an' planted him in this here graveyard
up the road; but he wouldn't stay planted an' began doin' stunts at night, 'topside walkee-walkee'
an' a-huntin' fer his lost button. He'd used ter have the whole country scared up, but fer
the last twenty years he'd kep' right quiet an' had hardly ever come out; but now sence the
foreign devils come (ain't that a sweet name fer us?) he's up an' at it again worse than ever,
an' the heathens is on their ear. Fer four nights now they'd seen him, wrapped in a blue robe,
waitin' an' a-huntin' behind tombstones an' walkin' round an' round the graveyard lie a six
days' race fer the belt at Madison Square. John had jus' seen him on the wall, an' that was
why he come chargin' down the road like forty cats.

"'Will Mr. Ming's sperrit walk till he gits that button back?' Buck asts. John says: 'Sure.'

"'Well,' says Buck, 'why don't yer give him one?'

"'No can give. Only Emplor, only Son of Heaven give.'

"'Well, look here,' says Buck, 'we sand rabbits ain't no sons of Heaven, but I'll be darned
if we couldn't spare a button ter lay the ghost of a pore busted police-court judge, who's
lost his job an' his tin, if that's all he wants back. What time does he come out at, John?
Could we see him ter-morrer night?' 'Sure could we,' says John; 'he'll show us the way, but
he won't wait with us; he's bad enough fer his.'

"So Buck takes John an' goes back ter the guard shack, as it's most time fer relief, an' after
I got back we told John ter git the hook, an' we talked things over, an' Buck he was just wild
ter see if he couldn't lay that Chino ghost. His talents was achin' ter git action on him;
anythin' like that got up his spunk. Says I:

"'Maybe Ranch kin help. We'll tell him ter-morrer after guard mount. It'll take his mind off
Daggett.'

"'No, yer don't,' says Buck. 'Don't yer dare tell him. He's nervous as a cat over the pup as
it is, an' this spook business is awful skeery; I'm feelin' woozy over it meself. I'm all off
when it comes ter ghosts--that is, if it's a real ghost. And things here in Pekin' is so funny
the odds is all in favor of its bein' the sure thing. I ain't afeard o' no kinds o' people,
but I sure git cold feet when I'm up against a ghost. Wouldn't that jar youse? An' me a soldier;
when it's a soldier's whole business not ter git cold feet. But I'm bound I'll have a show
at that ol' spook even if it does skeer me out o' my growth. Only don't yer dare tell Ranch.'

"Nex' night, right after eleven o'clock rounds, me an' Buck slipped outer our blankets, sneaked
out past the guard, an' met John, who was waitin' fer us in the road jus' beyond where the
last sentry woulder seen him. It was cold as git out. Jus' the same kind o' early cold as to-night,
an' John's teeth was chatterin' like peas in a box--he was some loco with skeer, too, you bet.

"'Which way?' says Buck, an' John spouts a lot o' dope-joint lingo an' takes us up a side alley,
where there's a whole bunch o' Chinos waitin' fer us, an' they begun a kowtowin' an' goin'
on like we was the whole cheese. Turned out that John had jollied 'em that the Melican soldier
mans was big medicine an' would make Judge Ming quit the midnight hike an' cut out scarin'
'em blue. That jus' suited Buck; he was all there when it come ter play commander in chief.
He swelled up an' give 'em a bundle o' talk that John put in Chino fer 'em, an' then finished
up by showin' 'em a button--a ol' United States Army brass button he'd cut off his blue blouse--an'
tol' 'em he was goin' ter bury it in Ming's grave so as ter keep him bedded down.

"An' them simple idiots was pleased ter death, an' the whole outfit escorted us over ter the
graveyard, but they shied at the gate (Lord, I hated ter see 'em go--even if they was heathens!),
an' let John take us in an' show us where ter wait. He put us in behind a pile o' little rocks
in about the middle o' the place near where Judge Ming hung out, an' then retired on the main
body at the double, leavin' us two in outpost alone there together. I hadn't never been ter
a Chino buryin' ground before, an' night time wasn't extree pleasant fer a foist introduce.
There was a new moon that night--a little shavin' of a thing that hardly gave no light, an'
from where we was there was a twisty pine tree branch that struck out right acrost it like
a picture card--two fer five. The graveyard was all dark an' quiet, with little piles o' rocks
an' stone tables ter mark the graves, an' a four- or five-foot wall runnin' all round it; an'
somehow, without nothin' stirrin' at all, the whole blame place seemed chock full o' movin'
shadders. There wasn't a sound neither; not the least little thing; jus' them shadders; an'
the harder yous'd look at 'em the more they seemed ter move. It was cold, too, like I told
yer--bitin' cold--an' me an' Buck squatted there tight together an' mos' friz. We waited, an'
we waited, an' we waited, an' we got skeerder, an' skeerder, an' skeerder, an', gee! how we
shivered! Every minute we thought we'd see Judge Ming, but a long time went by an' he didn't
come an' he didn't come. There we set, strung up tight an' ready ter snap like a banjo string,
but nothin' ter see but the shakin' shadders an' nothin' ter hear--nothin' but jus' dead, dead
silence.

"All of a suddent Buck (he kin hear a pin drop a mile away) nearly nips a piece out'n my arm
as he grips me. 'Listen!' says he.

"I listened an' listened, but I didn't hear nothin', an' I told him so.

"'Yes, yer do, yer bloke yer,' he whispers, 'Listen. Strain your years.'

"Then way off I did begin ter hear somepin'. It was a long, funny, waily cry, sort o' like
the way cats holler at each other at night. 'Oh-oo-oo, oh-oo-oo!' like that, an' it come nearer
an' nearer. Then all of a suddent somepin' popped up on the graveyard wall about a hundred
yards away--somepin' all blue-gray against the hook o' the moon--an' began walkin' up an' down
an' hollerin'. I knew it was sayin' words, but I was so far to the bad I didn't know nothin'
an' couldn't make it out. I never thought a feller's heart could bang so hard against his ribs
without bustin' out, an' me hair riz so high me campaign hat was three inches off'n me head.
I hope ter the Lord I'll never be so frightened again in all my livin' days. I set there in
a transom from fear an' friz ter the spot. I don't know nothin' o' what Buck was doin', as
my lamps was glued ter the spook. It jumped down from the wall, callin' an' whistlin' an' begin
runnin' round the little stone heaps. I seen it was comin' our way, but I couldn't move or
make a sound; I jus' set. All of a suddent Buck he jumps up an' makes a dash an' a leap at
the spook, an' there's a terrible yellin' an' they both comes down crash at the foot of a rock
pile, rollin' on the little pebbles; but Buck is on top an' the spook underneath an' lettin'
off the most awful screeches. Gosh, they jus' ripped the air, them spooks' yells did, an' they
turned my spell loose an' I howled fer all I was worth. Then Buck, he commenced a-yawpin' too,
but me an' the spook we was both raisin' so much noise I didn't savvy what he said fer some
time. Then I found he was cussin' me out.

"'Come here, you forsaken ---- ----,' he howls. 'Quit yellin'! I say quit yellin'! Don't yer
see who this is? Come here an' help me.'

"'You think I'm goin' ter tech that Ming spook?' I shrieks.

"'You miser'ble loony,' he yells back, 'can't yer see it ain't no Ming? It's Ranch!'

"Well, so it was. It was Ranch skeered stiff an' hollerin' fer dear life at bein' jumped on
an' waked up in the middle of a graveyard that-a-way. Pore ol' feller had had Daggett on his
mind, an' went sleepwalkin' an' huntin' wrapped in his blanket.

"'An',' says Buck ter me, 'if youse hadn't been in such a dope dream with skeer, you'd 'a'
sensed what he was a-yellin'. He was callin' "Oh-oo-oo, oh-oo-oo, here Daggett! Here, boy!"
an' then he'd whistle an' call again: "Here, Daggett! Here, Daggett!" That's how I knew it
was Ranch; an', besides, he told me onct that he sleepwalked when he got worried. But you,
you white livered--' an' then he cussed me out some more.

"'Smarty,' I says, 'if yer knew so blame well it was Ranch, why did yer give him the flyin'
tackle like yer done an' git him all woiked up like this?'

"'Well,' says Buck sort o' sheepy, 'I was some woiked up meself, an' time he come along I give
him the spook's tackle without thinkin'; I was too skeered ter think. Hush, Ranch. Hush, old
boy. It's jus' me'n Bill. Nobody shan't hoit yer.'

"We comforted pore ol' Ranch an' fixed him up, an' then when he felt better told him about
things--all but how Daggett was et--an' I wrapped his blanket around him an' took him back
ter quarters while Buck went a-lookin' fer John an' his gang.

"He found 'em about half a mile off, in front of a Mott Street joss house, all prayin' an'
burnin' punk an' huddled together, skeered green from the yellin's they'd heard. Buck, he give
'em a long chin-chin about layin' the ghost, an' how Judge Ming wouldn't never come back no
more; an' then he dragged 'em all back (they pullin' at the halter shanks with years laid back
an' eyes rollin'), ter him bury his United States button on Ming's rock pile. He dropped it
in solemn, an' said what the Chinks took ter be a prayer; but it was really the oath he said.
Buck havin' onct been a recruitin' sergeant, knew it by heart all the way from 'I do solemnly
swear' ter 'so help me, Gawd.' Buck says I oughter seen them grateful Chinos then: they'd 'a'
give him the whole Chino Umpire if they could. They got down an' squirmed an' kissed his hands
an' his feet an' his sleeve. They wanted ter escort him back ter camp, but he bucked at that,
an' said no, as he was out without pass an' not itchin' fer his arrival ter be noticed none.

"After that we took toins watchin' Ranch at night, an' got him another mutt ter love, an' he
didn't wander any more, so Judge Ming seemed satisfied with his United States button, an' kep'
quiet. But them Chinks was the gratefullest gang yer ever seen. They brought us presents; things
ter eat--fruit, poultry, eggs, an' all sorts of chow, some of it mighty funny lookin', but
it tasted all right; we lived high, we three. The other fellers was wild ter know how we woiked
it. An' I tell yer I ain't never been skeered o' ghosts sence--that is, not ter speak of--much!"

Bill, paused, drew a long breath, and looked at the clock. "Gee!" said he, "most nine o'clock.
I got ter go over ter K troop ter see Sergeant Keefe a minute--I promised him. Adios, fellers.
Thanks fer the smokin'."

"Keep the change, hombre. Thanks for yo' tale," shouted Whitney after him as he disappeared
down the hall.

"Well!!" said Stone, and looked at Hansen.

"Well!!" responded Hansen. The big Swede shook with laughter. "Iss he not the finest liar!
Yess? I wass in the Fourteenth myselluf. That wass my company--Chay. He wass not even the army
in then--in nineteen hund'erd."

"Yes," said Stone, "I knew, but I wasn't goin' to spoil his bloomin' yarn. I happened to see
his enlistment card only this mornin', and the only thing he was ever in before was the Twenty-third
Infantry after they came back from the Islands. He's never even been out of the States."

"But where did he get it from?" asked Whitney. "His imagination is equal to most anything but
gettin' so many facts straight. Of co'se I noticed things yere an' there--but the most of it
was O. K."

"I tell you," said Hansen, grinning, "he got it from an old Fourteenth man--Dan Powerss--at
practice camp last Chuly. He an' I wass often talking of China. He wuss in my old company an'
wass then telling me how he an' the other fellerss all that extra chow got. I tank Bill he
hass a goot memory."

"But the nerve of him!" cried Whitehall, "tryin' ter pass that off on us with Hansen sittin'
right there."

"It iss one thing he may have forgot," smiled Hansen.

"Well, who cares anyway?" said Stone. "It was a blame good story. An' now clear out, all of
you. I want to hit the bunk. Reveille does seem to come so early these cold mornin's. Gee!
I wish I knew of some kind of button that would keep me lyin' down when Shorty wants me to
get up an' call the roll." The baron was astounded.

THE SPECTER OF TAPPINGTON

COMPILED BY RICHARD BARHAM

The Specter of Tappington

From The Ingoldsby Legends

COMPILED BY RICHARD BARHAM

"It is very odd, though; what can have become of them?" said Charles Seaforth, as he peeped
under the valance of an old-fashioned bedstead, in an old-fashioned apartment of a still more
old-fashioned manor-house; "'tis confoundedly odd, and I can't make it out at all. Why, Barney,
where are they?--and where the d----l are you?"

No answer was returned to this appeal; and the lieutenant, who was, in the main, a reasonable
person--at least as reasonable a person as any young gentleman of twenty-two in "the service"
can fairly be expected to be--cooled when he reflected that his servant could scarcely reply
extempore to a summons which it was impossible he should hear.

An application to the bell was the considerate result; and the footsteps of as tight a lad
as ever put pipe-clay to belt sounded along the gallery.

