Of the uncountable evidences of woman's inventive genius, the enumeration of the following
devices and improvements may suffice: a chain elevator; an appliance for lessening the noise
of elevated cars; a lubricating felt for diminishing friction (very useful for railroad cars);
a portable water-reservoir for extinguishing small fires; an apparatus for weighing wool (one
of the most sensitive machines ever invented, and of incalculable advantage for the wool industry);
a rotary loom (performing thrice the work of an ordinary one); furthermore, manifold improvements
to the sewing-machine, such as a device for threading the needle while the machine is in full
operation; an appliance for sewing leather--contrived by a woman in New York who runs a saddlery
business there--; and many others. To the sensational inventions, originated in female brains,
belong--the sea-telescope devised by Mrs. Mather, an instrument for the purpose of examining
the keel of a ship without requiring her being put into the dry-dock--and a complicated machine
for manufacturing paper bags, a very intricate affair which many eminent mechanicians have
made but unsuccessful efforts to contrive. Since then, Miss Maggie Knight, the inventress of
the machine above mentioned, has found out another; namely for folding paper-bags. The latter
performs the work of thirty men, and has been put up under that lady's personal supervision
in Amherst, Mass.

The wonderful achievements made by women in America, have not been attained by females of any
other country on the globe. This circumstance is mainly due to the fact that the public school
as well as the college system in the United States--contrary to that of other nations--makes
a finished education accessible to both men and women.

According to a report given by President White of the University of Michigan--an institution
that admits students of both sexes--out of 1,300 attendants of the Greek class, the best scholar
was a young lady. In mathematics and other scientific studies, girls had the highest standing.
Furthermore, the profession of teaching in this country is principally in the hands of women;
which proves that the possibility of cultivating the female mind to a high stage of perfection
is absolutely unquestionable.

Moreover, philosophers of modern times have demonstrated that it is wrong to assign to woman
a position inferior to man by basing it on the theory--that her brains have smaller dimensions.
For, it is not the quantity of the viscus alone that settles this scientific question; but
the weight of the brains in direct proportion to that of the person's body.

Recent scientific researches, accomplished by the noted Parisian physiologist Broca, yielded
the result that the ratio of woman's brains compared with man's, contains even a surplus of
one to four per cent.

Now, that science acknowledges that the female intellect is educable to the same degree as
that of man; would it not appear to be a perversion of judgment to undervalue ingenuity, because
it accidentally had its seat in female brains? Would it not be unjust to leave talents undeveloped
and without cultivation, simply because a woman possesses them?

The active part woman took in the promotion of the Columbian Exposition is additional proof
of her ability; and on this occasion she comes to the front rank more than ever before in her
history.

Repairing to the northern portion of the park, we entered the "ART PALACE" through the southern
of its four main entrances. We found ourselves in a gallery where the magnificent sculpture
exhibit captivated our eyes.

In the court running east and west, we beheld a fine display of architecture showing models
of many famous edifices in the world, and their exquisite portals and architectural ornaments.

