But from the historic point of view, the most interesting part of the picture is its right
side, where stand the buildings of St. Edmund Hall. This is the only survival of the system
of residence in the earliest University, of the Oxford which knew not the college system.

Before the days of "pious founders," the students had to provide their own places of residence,
and very early the custom grew up of their living together in "halls," sometimes managed by
a non-academic owner, but often under the superintendence of some resident Master of Arts,
who was responsible, not for the teaching, but, at any rate in part, for the discipline of
the inmates of his hall. These halls had at first no endowments and no permanent existence;
they depended for their continuity on the person of their head. Gradually they became more
organized; but when once the college system had been introduced, it tended, by its superior
wealth and efficiency, to render the "halls" less and less important. They lost even the one
element of self-government which they had once had, the right of their members to elect their
own Principal; this right was usurped by the Chancellor. Hence, though five of the halls were
surviving at the time of the University Commission (of 1850), all of them but St. Edmund Hall
have now disappeared.

In theory, "hall" and "college" have much in common; one Cambridge college indeed has retained
the name of "hall," and two of the women's colleges in Oxford have preferred to keep the old
style. In practice, their difference lies in the two facts that colleges are wealthier, with
more endowments, and that they are self-governing, with Fellows who co-opt to vacancies in
their own body and elect their head. St. Edmund Hall has its head appointed by the fellows
of Queen's, with which institution it has long been connected. But this theory is very doubtful,
and Hearne, most famous of Oxford antiquarians, and probably the best known member of St. Edmund
Hall, did not believe it. In any case, most of the buildings of the hall date long after St.
Edmund, and belong to the middle of the seventeenth century. Hearne himself is sufficient to
give interest to any foundation. He was a great scholar and a careful editor of the early English
Chroniclers in days when learning was decaying in Oxford; even now his work as an editor is
not altogether superseded. But it is not to this that he owes his fame; it is rather to the
fact that he has high rank among the diarists of England, and the first place among those of
Oxford. For thirty years (1705-1735) in which latter year he died, he poured into his diary
everything that interested him--scholarly notes, political rumours, personal scandal, remarks
on manners and customs. The 150 volumes came into the possession of his fellow Jacobite, Richard
Rawlinson, the greatest of the benefactors of the Bodleian, and only now are they being fully
edited; ten volumes have been issued by the Oxford Historical Society, and still there are
a few more years of his life to cover. As a specimen of Hearne's style may be quoted his remarks,
when the sermon on Christmas Day, 1732, was postponed till 11 a.m.

