A. W. KINGLAKE--A BIOGRAPHICAL AND LITERARY STUDY

PREFACE

It is just eleven years since Kinglake passed away, and his life has not yet been separately
memorialized.  A few years more, and the personal side of him would be irrecoverable, though
by personality, no less than by authorship, he made his contemporary mark.  When a tomb has
been closed for centuries, the effaced lineaments of its tenant can be re-coloured only by
the idealizing hand of genius, as Scott drew Claverhouse, and Carlyle drew Cromwell.  But,
to the biographer of the lately dead, men have a right to say, as Saul said to the Witch of
Endor, "Call up Samuel!" He was goodness personified, without bordering on stupid, and was
also sole heir, hoping to be richer than its cousin when they inherit. The widowed Countess she
wanted to marry her son.

Had tried several times to induce the claim. He had always been in vain.

Now, three or four days after arriving Adela, Countess called one
morning to his son to his room, between eleven and one before lunch,
and took with him the next important conference.

XIV

After the usual affectionate greetings and a brief preamble on trivial
matters, Mother and son sitting in comfortable chairs and facing it
from him, the Countess went on as follows:

- Well you know, Ricardo
mine, that I've been lenient with you.

This I have endeavoured to do, with such aid as I could command from his few remaining contemporaries.
His letters to his family were destroyed by his own desire; on those written to Madame Novikoff
no such embargo was laid, nor does she believe that it was intended.  I have used these sparingly,
and all extracts from them have been subjected to her censorship.  If the result is not Attic
in salt, it is at any rate Roman in brevity.  I send it forth with John Bunyan's homely aspiration:

And may its buyer have no cause to say, His money is but lost or thrown away.

CHAPTER I--EARLY YEARS

The fourth decade of the deceased century dawned on a procession of Oriental pilgrims, variously
qualified or disqualified to hold the gorgeous East in fee, who, with bakshish in their purses,
a theory in their brains, an unfilled diary-book in their portmanteaus, sought out the Holy
Land, the Sinai peninsula, the valley of the Nile, sometimes even Armenia and the Monte Santo,
and returned home to emit their illustrated and mapped octavos.  We have the type delineated
admiringly in Miss Yonge's "Heartsease," {1} bitterly in Miss Skene's "Use and Abuse," facetiously
in the Clarence Bulbul of "Our Street."  "Hang it! has not everybody written an Eastern book?
I should like to meet anybody in society now who has not been up to the Second Cataract.  Lord
Carlisle's honesty, Lord Nugent's fun, Lord Lindsay's piety, failed to float their books. 
Miss Martineau, clear, frank, unemotional Curzon, fuddling the Levantine monks with rosoglio
that he might fleece them of their treasured hereditary manuscripts, even Eliot Warburton's
power, colouring, play of fancy, have yielded to the mobility of Time.  Two alone out of the
gallant company maintain their vogue to-day:  Stanley's "Sinai and Palestine," as a Fifth Gospel,
an inspired Scripture Gazetteer; and "Eothen," as a literary gem of purest ray serene.

