The boat was gliding out on the receding tide.  It slid before the Lime Rock, blotted out Ida
Lewis's little house, and passed across the turret in which the light was hung.  Archer waited
till a wide space of water sparkled between the last reef of the island and the stern of the
boat; but still the figure in the summer-house did not move.

He turned and walked up the hill.

"I'm sorry you didn't find Ellen--I should have liked to see her again," May said as they drove
home through the dusk.  "But perhaps she wouldn't have cared--she seems so changed."

"Changed?" echoed her husband in a colourless voice, his eyes fixed on the ponies' twitching ears. But what of Beatrice? Perhaps this was it not
to be the best way she has realized? Maybe it was their strength, not to To confess and she
loved Hanka best if she loved his ignorance? Perhaps this was Here lie the better. Lie, it's
just a word. But how? if he on raw and vile nature would have found out? is a will, which is
doing something not as good as About the? and its purpose was not to be true, because I wanted
it?

And if a lie is only a word, now so soon to assume so, it is indeed injustice just a word. If you do
not make a truth can, then you can even run a justice not create. Maybe it's somewhere decided
that a Jewish woman came to the monastery, perhaps has to be somewhere good, just do not ego.
But that would be a desperate, a most desperate story, when man no longer able to know what
he can and should.

Very confused, our hero got up and walked like a dismal rush home.

Thirty-eighth chapter

Anna Borromeo end of August came back from the country stay. They immediately made out, received
Check out subscribe to, for concerts and theater and was preparing for the usual fall and Winter
life before. Piles of novels came from the bookstore and from borrowing
and no could hold them longer than a morning.

They chased him here and there, complained about Insomnia seemed, soon weakened, sometimes overwrought,
sometimes talkative and sometimes too quiet. Arnold followed closely their doings, and he is oppressed, she
and her uncle so in a to think strait and eternal relationship, which
seemed to him as the marriage.

Frederick Borromeo was swept deep into itself. Nothing came of fatigue
and calm the same, with which he carried a knife and fork, put the
food on his plate, not the loss of appetite, with which he ate or
dragged a call to a preliminary end point.

It angered and hurt Arnold
to watch this. Still burning in him the desire is to seek people.
When he one morning at breakfast was sitting alone with Borromeo began
He disclosed: "Could not you tell me what you so depressing?  But now it was the Welland house, and the life he was expected to lead in
it, that had become unreal and irrelevant, and the brief scene on the shore, when he had stood
irresolute, halfway down the bank, was as close to him as the blood in his veins.

All night he lay awake in the big chintz bedroom at May's side, watching the moonlight slant
along the carpet, and thinking of Ellen Olenska driving home across the gleaming beaches behind
Beaufort's trotters.

XXII.

"A party for the Blenkers--the Blenkers?"

Mr. Welland laid down his knife and fork and looked anxiously and incredulously across the
luncheon-table at his wife, who, adjusting her gold eye-glasses, read aloud, in the tone of
high comedy:

"Professor and Mrs. Emerson Sillerton request the pleasure of Mr. and Mrs. Welland's company
at the meeting of the Wednesday Afternoon Club on August 25th at 3 o'clock punctually.  To
meet Mrs. and the Misses Blenker.

"Red Gables, Catherine Street.  R. S. V. P."

"Good gracious--" Mr. Welland gasped, as if a second reading had been necessary to bring the
monstrous absurdity of the thing home to him.

"Poor Amy Sillerton--you never can tell what her husband will do next," Mrs. Welland sighed.
"I suppose he's just discovered the Blenkers."

Professor Emerson Sillerton was a thorn in the side of Newport society; and a thorn that could
not be plucked out, for it grew on a venerable and venerated family tree.  He was, as people
said, a man who had had "every advantage."  His father was Sillerton Jackson's uncle, his mother
a Pennilow of Boston; on each side there was wealth and position, and mutual suitability. 
Nothing--as Mrs. Welland had often remarked--nothing on earth obliged Emerson Sillerton to
be an archaeologist, or indeed a Professor of any sort, or to live in Newport in winter, or
do any of the other revolutionary things that he did. But at least, if he was going to break
with tradition and flout society in the face, he need not have married poor Amy Dagonet, who
had a right to expect "something different," and money enough to keep her own carriage.

No one in the Mingott set could understand why Amy Sillerton had submitted so tamely to the
eccentricities of a husband who filled the house with long-haired men and short-haired women,
and, when he travelled, took her to explore tombs in Yucatan instead of going to Paris or Italy.
But there they were, set in their ways, and apparently unaware that they were different from
other people; and when they gave one of their dreary annual garden-parties every family on
the Cliffs, because of the Sillerton-Pennilow-Dagonet connection, had to draw lots and send
an unwilling representative.

"It's a wonder," Mrs. Welland remarked, "that they didn't choose the Cup Race day!  Do you
remember, two years ago, their giving a party for a black man on the day of Julia Mingott's
the dansant?  Luckily this time there's nothing else going on that I know of--for of course
some of us will have to go."

Mr. Welland sighed nervously.  "'Some of us,' my dear--more than one? Three o'clock is such
a very awkward hour.  I have to be here at half-past three to take my drops: it's really no
use trying to follow Bencomb's new treatment if I don't do it systematically; and if I join
you later, of course I shall miss my drive."  At the thought he laid down his knife and fork
again, and a flush of anxiety rose to his finely-wrinkled cheek.

"There's no reason why you should go at all, my dear," his wife answered with a cheerfulness
that had become automatic.  "I have some cards to leave at the other end of Bellevue Avenue,
and I'll drop in at about half-past three and stay long enough to make poor Amy feel that she
hasn't been slighted."  She glanced hesitatingly at her daughter. "And if Newland's afternoon
is provided for perhaps May can drive you out with the ponies, and try their new russet harness."

It was a principle in the Welland family that people's days and hours should be what Mrs. Welland
called "provided for."  The melancholy possibility of having to "kill time" (especially for
those who did not care for whist or solitaire) was a vision that haunted her as the spectre
of the unemployed haunts the philanthropist.  Another of her principles was that parents should
never (at least visibly) interfere with the plans of their married children; and the difficulty
of adjusting this respect for May's independence with the exigency of Mr. Welland's claims
could be overcome only by the exercise of an ingenuity which left not a second of Mrs. Welland's
own time unprovided for.

"Of course I'll drive with Papa--I'm sure Newland will find something to do," May said, in
a tone that gently reminded her husband of his lack of response.  It was a cause of constant
distress to Mrs. Welland that her son-in-law showed so little foresight in planning his days.
Often already, during the fortnight that he had passed under her roof, when she enquired how
he meant to spend his afternoon, he had answered paradoxically:  "Oh, I think for a change
I'll just save it instead of spending it--" and once, when she and May had had to go on a long-postponed
round of afternoon calls, he had confessed to having lain all the afternoon under a rock on
the beach below the house.

"Newland never seems to look ahead," Mrs. Welland once ventured to complain to her daughter;
and May answered serenely:  "No; but you see it doesn't matter, because when there's nothing
particular to do he reads a book."

"Ah, yes--like his father!" Mrs. Welland agreed, as if allowing for an inherited oddity; and
after that the question of Newland's unemployment was tacitly dropped.

Nevertheless, as the day for the Sillerton reception approached, May began to show a natural
solicitude for his welfare, and to suggest a tennis match at the Chiverses', or a sail on Julius
Beaufort's cutter, as a means of atoning for her temporary desertion.  "I shall be back by
six, you know, dear: Papa never drives later than that--" and she was not reassured till Archer
said that he thought of hiring a run-about and driving up the island to a stud-farm to look
at a second horse for her brougham.  They had been looking for this horse for some time, and
the suggestion was so acceptable that May glanced at her mother as if to say:  "You see he
knows how to plan out his time as well as any of us."

The idea of the stud-farm and the brougham horse had germinated in Archer's mind on the very
day when the Emerson Sillerton invitation had first been mentioned; but he had kept it to himself
as if there were something clandestine in the plan, and discovery might prevent its execution.
He had, however, taken the precaution to engage in advance a runabout with a pair of old livery-stable
trotters that could still do their eighteen miles on level roads; and at two o'clock, hastily
deserting the luncheon-table, he sprang into the light carriage and drove off.

The day was perfect.  A breeze from the north drove little puffs of white cloud across an ultramarine
sky, with a bright sea running under it.  Bellevue Avenue was empty at that hour, and after
dropping the stable-lad at the corner of Mill Street Archer turned down the Old Beach Road
and drove across Eastman's Beach.

He had the feeling of unexplained excitement with which, on half-holidays at school, he used
to start off into the unknown.  Taking his pair at an easy gait, he counted on reaching the
stud-farm, which was not far beyond Paradise Rocks, before three o'clock; so that, after looking
over the horse (and trying him if he seemed promising) he would still have four golden hours
to dispose of.

As soon as he heard of the Sillerton's party he had said to himself that the Marchioness Manson
would certainly come to Newport with the Blenkers, and that Madame Olenska might again take
the opportunity of spending the day with her grandmother.  At any rate, the Blenker habitation
would probably be deserted, and he would be able, without indiscretion, to satisfy a vague
curiosity concerning it.  He was not sure that he wanted to see the Countess Olenska again;
but ever since he had looked at her from the path above the bay he had wanted, irrationally
and indescribably, to see the place she was living in, and to follow the movements of her imagined
figure as he had watched the real one in the summer-house.  The longing was with him day and
night, an incessant undefinable craving, like the sudden whim of a sick man for food or drink
once tasted and long since forgotten.  He could not see beyond the craving, or picture what
it might lead to, for he was not conscious of any wish to speak to Madame Olenska or to hear
her voice.  He simply felt that if he could carry away the vision of the spot of earth she
walked on, and the way the sky and sea enclosed it, the rest of the world might seem less empty.

When he reached the stud-farm a glance showed him that the horse was not what he wanted; nevertheless
he took a turn behind it in order to prove to himself that he was not in a hurry.  But at three
o'clock he shook out the reins over the trotters and turned into the by-roads leading to Portsmouth.
The wind had dropped and a faint haze on the horizon showed that a fog was waiting to steal
up the Saconnet on the turn of the tide; but all about him fields and woods were steeped in
golden light.

He drove past grey-shingled farm-houses in orchards, past hay-fields and groves of oak, past
villages with white steeples rising sharply into the fading sky; and at last, after stopping
to ask the way of some men at work in a field, he turned down a lane between high banks of
goldenrod and brambles.  At the end of the lane was the blue glimmer of the river; to the left,
standing in front of a clump of oaks and maples, he saw a long tumble-down house with white
paint peeling from its clapboards.

On the road-side facing the gateway stood one of the open sheds in which the New Englander
shelters his farming implements and visitors "hitch" their "teams." Archer, jumping down, led
his pair into the shed, and after tying them to a post turned toward the house.  The patch
of lawn before it had relapsed into a hay-field; but to the left an overgrown box-garden full
of dahlias and rusty rose-bushes encircled a ghostly summer-house of trellis-work that had
once been white, surmounted by a wooden Cupid who had lost his bow and arrow but continued
to take ineffectual aim.

Archer leaned for a while against the gate.  No one was in sight, and not a sound came from
the open windows of the house: a grizzled Newfoundland dozing before the door seemed as ineffectual
a guardian as the arrowless Cupid.  It was strange to think that this place of silence and
decay was the home of the turbulent Blenkers; yet Archer was sure that he was not mistaken.

For a long time he stood there, content to take in the scene, and gradually falling under its
drowsy spell; but at length he roused himself to the sense of the passing time.  Should he
look his fill and then drive away?  He stood irresolute, wishing suddenly to see the inside
of the house, so that he might picture the room that Madame Olenska sat in.  There was nothing
to prevent his walking up to the door and ringing the bell; if, as he supposed, she was away
with the rest of the party, he could easily give his name, and ask permission to go into the
sitting-room to write a message.

But instead, he crossed the lawn and turned toward the box-garden.  As he entered it he caught
sight of something bright-coloured in the summer-house, and presently made it out to be a pink
parasol.  The parasol drew him like a magnet: he was sure it was hers.  He went into the summer-house,
and sitting down on the rickety seat picked up the silken thing and looked at its carved handle,
which was made of some rare wood that gave out an aromatic scent.  Archer lifted the handle
to his lips.

He heard a rustle of skirts against the box, and sat motionless, leaning on the parasol handle
with clasped hands, and letting the rustle come nearer without lifting his eyes.  He had always
known that this must happen ...

"Oh, Mr. Archer!" exclaimed a loud young voice; and looking up he saw before him the youngest
and largest of the Blenker girls, blonde and blowsy, in bedraggled muslin.  A red blotch on
one of her cheeks seemed to show that it had recently been pressed against a pillow, and her
half-awakened eyes stared at him hospitably but confusedly.

"Gracious--where did you drop from?  I must have been sound asleep in the hammock.  Everybody
else has gone to Newport.  Did you ring?" she incoherently enquired.

Archer's confusion was greater than hers.  "I--no--that is, I was just going to.  I had to
come up the island to see about a horse, and I drove over on a chance of finding Mrs. Blenker
and your visitors.  But the house seemed empty--so I sat down to wait."

Miss Blenker, shaking off the fumes of sleep, looked at him with increasing interest.  "The
house IS empty.  Mother's not here, or the Marchioness--or anybody but me."  Her glance became
faintly reproachful.  "Didn't you know that Professor and Mrs. Sillerton are giving a garden-party
for mother and all of us this afternoon?  It was too unlucky that I couldn't go; but I've had
a sore throat, and mother was afraid of the drive home this evening.  Did you ever know anything
so disappointing?  Of course," she added gaily, "I shouldn't have minded half as much if I'd
known you were coming."

Symptoms of a lumbering coquetry became visible in her, and Archer found the strength to break
in:  "But Madame Olenska--has she gone to Newport too?"

Miss Blenker looked at him with surprise.  "Madame Olenska--didn't you know she'd been called
away?"

"Called away?--"

"Oh, my best parasol!  I lent it to that goose of a Katie, because it matched her ribbons,
and the careless thing must have dropped it here. We Blenkers are all like that ... real Bohemians!"
Recovering the sunshade with a powerful hand she unfurled it and suspended its rosy dome above
her head.  "Yes, Ellen was called away yesterday: she lets us call her Ellen, you know.  A
telegram came from Boston: she said she might be gone for two days.  I do LOVE the way she
does her hair, don't you?" Miss Blenker rambled on.

Archer continued to stare through her as though she had been transparent.  All he saw was the
trumpery parasol that arched its pinkness above her giggling head.

After a moment he ventured:  "You don't happen to know why Madame Olenska went to Boston? 
I hope it was not on account of bad news?"

Miss Blenker took this with a cheerful incredulity.  "Oh, I don't believe so.  She didn't tell
us what was in the telegram.  I think she didn't want the Marchioness to know.  She's so romantic-looking,
isn't she?  Doesn't she remind you of Mrs. Scott-Siddons when she reads 'Lady Geraldine's Courtship'?
Did you never hear her?"

Archer was dealing hurriedly with crowding thoughts.  His whole future seemed suddenly to be
unrolled before him; and passing down its endless emptiness he saw the dwindling figure of
a man to whom nothing was ever to happen.  He glanced about him at the unpruned garden, the
tumble-down house, and the oak-grove under which the dusk was gathering.  It had seemed so
exactly the place in which he ought to have found Madame Olenska; and she was far away, and
even the pink sunshade was not hers ...

He frowned and hesitated.  "You don't know, I suppose--I shall be in Boston tomorrow.  If I
could manage to see her--"

He felt that Miss Blenker was losing interest in him, though her smile persisted.  "Oh, of
course; how lovely of you!  She's staying at the Parker House; it must be horrible there in
this weather."

After that Archer was but intermittently aware of the remarks they exchanged.  He could only
remember stoutly resisting her entreaty that he should await the returning family and have
high tea with them before he drove home.  At length, with his hostess still at his side, he
passed out of range of the wooden Cupid, unfastened his horses and drove off.  At the turn
of the lane he saw Miss Blenker standing at the gate and waving the pink parasol.

XXIII.

The next morning, when Archer got out of the Fall River train, he emerged upon a steaming midsummer
Boston.  The streets near the station were full of the smell of beer and coffee and decaying
fruit and a shirt-sleeved populace moved through them with the intimate abandon of boarders
going down the passage to the bathroom.

Archer found a cab and drove to the Somerset Club for breakfast.  Even the fashionable quarters
had the air of untidy domesticity to which no excess of heat ever degrades the European cities.
Care-takers in calico lounged on the door-steps of the wealthy, and the Common looked like
a pleasure-ground on the morrow of a Masonic picnic.  If Archer had tried to imagine Ellen
Olenska in improbable scenes he could not have called up any into which it was more difficult
to fit her than this heat-prostrated and deserted Boston.

He breakfasted with appetite and method, beginning with a slice of melon, and studying a morning
paper while he waited for his toast and scrambled eggs.  A new sense of energy and activity
had possessed him ever since he had announced to May the night before that he had business
in Boston, and should take the Fall River boat that night and go on to New York the following
evening.  It had always been understood that he would return to town early in the week, and
when he got back from his expedition to Portsmouth a letter from the office, which fate had
conspicuously placed on a corner of the hall table, sufficed to justify his sudden change of
plan.  He was even ashamed of the ease with which the whole thing had been done: it reminded
him, for an uncomfortable moment, of Lawrence Lefferts's masterly contrivances for securing
his freedom.  But this did not long trouble him, for he was not in an analytic mood.

After breakfast he smoked a cigarette and glanced over the Commercial Advertiser.  While he
was thus engaged two or three men he knew came in, and the usual greetings were exchanged:
it was the same world after all, though he had such a queer sense of having slipped through
the meshes of time and space.

He looked at his watch, and finding that it was half-past nine got up and went into the writing-room.
There he wrote a few lines, and ordered a messenger to take a cab to the Parker House and wait
for the answer.  He then sat down behind another newspaper and tried to calculate how long
it would take a cab to get to the Parker House.

"The lady was out, sir," he suddenly heard a waiter's voice at his elbow; and he stammered:
"Out?--" as if it were a word in a strange language.

He got up and went into the hall.  It must be a mistake: she could not be out at that hour.
He flushed with anger at his own stupidity: why had he not sent the note as soon as he arrived?

He found his hat and stick and went forth into the street.  The city had suddenly become as
strange and vast and empty as if he were a traveller from distant lands.  For a moment he stood
on the door-step hesitating; then he decided to go to the Parker House.  What if the messenger
had been misinformed, and she were still there?

He started to walk across the Common; and on the first bench, under a tree, he saw her sitting.
She had a grey silk sunshade over her head--how could he ever have imagined her with a pink
one?  As he approached he was struck by her listless attitude: she sat there as if she had
nothing else to do.  He saw her drooping profile, and the knot of hair fastened low in the
neck under her dark hat, and the long wrinkled glove on the hand that held the sunshade.  He
came a step or two nearer, and she turned and looked at him.

"Oh"--she said; and for the first time he noticed a startled look on her face; but in another
moment it gave way to a slow smile of wonder and contentment.

"Oh"--she murmured again, on a different note, as he stood looking down at her; and without
rising she made a place for him on the bench.

"I'm here on business--just got here," Archer explained; and, without knowing why, he suddenly
began to feign astonishment at seeing her. "But what on earth are you doing in this wilderness?"
He had really no idea what he was saying: he felt as if he were shouting at her across endless
distances, and she might vanish again before he could overtake her.

"I?  Oh, I'm here on business too," she answered, turning her head toward him so that they
were face to face.  The words hardly reached him: he was aware only of her voice, and of the
startling fact that not an echo of it had remained in his memory.  He had not even remembered
that it was low-pitched, with a faint roughness on the consonants.

"You do your hair differently," he said, his heart beating as if he had uttered something irrevocable.

"Differently?  No--it's only that I do it as best I can when I'm without Nastasia."

"Nastasia; but isn't she with you?"

"No; I'm alone.  For two days it was not worth while to bring her."

"You're alone--at the Parker House?"

She looked at him with a flash of her old malice.  "Does it strike you as dangerous?"

"No; not dangerous--"

"But unconventional?  I see; I suppose it is."  She considered a moment.  "I hadn't thought
of it, because I've just done something so much more unconventional." The faint tinge of irony
lingered in her eyes.  "I've just refused to take back a sum of money--that belonged to me."

Archer sprang up and moved a step or two away.  She had furled her parasol and sat absently
drawing patterns on the gravel.  Presently he came back and stood before her.

"Some one--has come here to meet you?"

"Yes."

"With this offer?"

She nodded.

"And you refused--because of the conditions?"

"I refused," she said after a moment.

He sat down by her again.  "What were the conditions?"

"Oh, they were not onerous: just to sit at the head of his table now and then."

There was another interval of silence.  Archer's heart had slammed itself shut in the queer
way it had, and he sat vainly groping for a word.

"He wants you back--at any price?"

"Well--a considerable price.  At least the sum is considerable for me."

He paused again, beating about the question he felt he must put.

"It was to meet him here that you came?"

She stared, and then burst into a laugh.  "Meet him--my husband?  HERE? At this season he's
always at Cowes or Baden."

"He sent some one?"

"Yes."

"With a letter?"

She shook her head.  "No; just a message.  He never writes.  I don't think I've had more than
one letter from him."  The allusion brought the colour to her cheek, and it reflected itself
in Archer's vivid blush.

"Why does he never write?"

"Why should he?  What does one have secretaries for?"

The young man's blush deepened.  She had pronounced the word as if it had no more significance
than any other in her vocabulary.  For a moment it was on the tip of his tongue to ask:  "Did
he send his secretary, then?"  But the remembrance of Count Olenski's only letter to his wife
was too present to him.  He paused again, and then took another plunge.

"And the person?"--

"The emissary?  The emissary," Madame Olenska rejoined, still smiling, "might, for all I care,
have left already; but he has insisted on waiting till this evening ... in case ... on the
chance ..."

"And you came out here to think the chance over?"

"I came out to get a breath of air.  The hotel's too stifling.  I'm taking the afternoon train
back to Portsmouth."

They sat silent, not looking at each other, but straight ahead at the people passing along
the path.  Finally she turned her eyes again to his face and said:  "You're not changed."

He felt like answering:  "I was, till I saw you again;" but instead he stood up abruptly and
glanced about him at the untidy sweltering park.

"This is horrible.  Why shouldn't we go out a little on the bay? There's a breeze, and it will
be cooler.  We might take the steamboat down to Point Arley."  She glanced up at him hesitatingly
and he went on:  "On a Monday morning there won't be anybody on the boat.  My train doesn't
leave till evening: I'm going back to New York.  Why shouldn't we?" he insisted, looking down
at her; and suddenly he broke out: "Haven't we done all we could?"

"Oh"--she murmured again.  She stood up and reopened her sunshade, glancing about her as if
to take counsel of the scene, and assure herself of the impossibility of remaining in it. 
Then her eyes returned to his face.  "You mustn't say things like that to me," she said.

"I'll say anything you like; or nothing.  I won't open my mouth unless you tell me to.  What
harm can it do to anybody?  All I want is to listen to you," he stammered.

She drew out a little gold-faced watch on an enamelled chain.  "Oh, don't calculate," he broke
out; "give me the day!  I want to get you away from that man.  At what time was he coming?"

Her colour rose again.  "At eleven."

"Then you must come at once."

"You needn't be afraid--if I don't come."

"Nor you either--if you do.  I swear I only want to hear about you, to know what you've been
doing.  It's a hundred years since we've met--it may be another hundred before we meet again."

She still wavered, her anxious eyes on his face.  "Why didn't you come down to the beach to
fetch me, the day I was at Granny's?" she asked.

"Because you didn't look round--because you didn't know I was there.  I swore I wouldn't unless
you looked round."  He laughed as the childishness of the confession struck him.

"But I didn't look round on purpose."

"On purpose?"

"I knew you were there; when you drove in I recognised the ponies.  So I went down to the beach."

"To get away from me as far as you could?"

She repeated in a low voice:  "To get away from you as far as I could."

He laughed out again, this time in boyish satisfaction.  "Well, you see it's no use.  I may
as well tell you," he added, "that the business I came here for was just to find you.  But,
look here, we must start or we shall miss our boat."

"Our boat?" It is shameful.
"

"Do you know the girl better?"

"The Jutta élass? I have seen her once in a lifetime. An ugly little thing. "

Verena looked at him closely. It seemed as if this answer only a deeper interest in it would
have awakened.

But they did not speak further about the matter and for that Arnold
was grateful to her.

They sat together at least a quarter of an hour in silence.

Arnold wondered to himself. A wonderful movement was in his chest, and he had the feeling that flooded
him Scents.

"Is Wolmut come to you?"

Verena asked at last.

"Yes, he has come."

"You find him sympathetic?"

"Very nice."

"He is one of the most useful people I know, he'll certainly still
very far that is, as far as one can get it in this corrupt state level.

"

"Go far, that is, get a big office?"

"Yes, roughly."

"As far as becoming 'I would never bring it."

"Hardly. Idealists do not bring it to high office. "

"Idealists? This is a stupid word. I'm not Schiller. "

Verena laughed. "But the idealists still can take you further than to high office."

"Oh, I am reconciled."

"Yes, but there are dangers."

"Danger?"

"The idealists can not commit. You may not demanding friendships have. "

Why? You mean that one must be sparing with his heart. "

"Maybe. Or is that one should not squander the heart. "

"It seems to me immoral. In my view, the heart can not be poor, so much it also gives. "

"Do you believe? Since you are very mistaken. The heart may in fact be wrong also and even lost.
And when it has once lost, it is used up.

"

"Now, now, and when? For this purpose we are here.

One can not but a calculating machine in the chest . Put into it "

"But if one has a goal, he must keep his heart, or he is not worth anything."

"I must go: rose suddenly and said Verena. I have to Tetzner. "

"What you really want to Tetzner Lord?" Arnold asked quickly.

She stopped, frowned, but did not respond.

No sooner had they made the street a few steps when Tetzner head at ground level in a Window
was visible. "Where are you, Verena," he cried;? In. "take it to the Lord. My young friend,
here are the rarest spirits of the world and many other things that would otherwise applies only
to the board of the Great Khan of Bokhara. Come on. "

Arnold looked up and made a grimace. "People have already elsewhere provided for me," he replied,
laughing, "but maybe something to lift me."

"Bravo," cried Tetzner, clapping his hands. Verena looked participating deep look to Arnold, whose
cheerfulness liked her very much. Almost violently, she stretched out her hand, when he left.

Thirty-Fifth
Chapter

In a room that looked out towards the garden, Hanka sat at the piano and played a Haydn's Sonata.
Beatrice was sitting in the corner of moderately large, backlit by
the setting sun still Space flipped in a photograph album and yawned
from time to time.

"This invitation was completely unnecessary, "she said during a break
between an Andante and an Allegro," especially as woodpecker is not
coming.

What are we doing with Anson alone and what he does for us? This is he was still rude and
can wait. "

Hanka turned slowly to the chair. He glanced at the clock smacked with the lips and said, wanted
"We Podoliner once but the two together have, but you wanted it.

That your friend would cancel woodpecker, one could not assume so. Other interested Ansorge me more.
"

Beate hovered impatiently with her foot.

"I'm bored with it," she said. "I'm bored at all. If we had only gone already. How long is it
until tomorrow morning! I want each Day be else where, and you, are you sleeping by day and night.
"

And between a smile and a gnashing of teeth she continued: "Have you the tickets ordered? "

With his own dangling step Hanka walked on the wide side of the room. He did not answer. For
several days he was nameless, changing feelings moved. With the strength of his whole being, he
hung on Beatrice, but he spied continuously rebellion in its interior. For a person like Hank is
the manifestation of a feeling not the means to awaken faith in them, for him it was important
to the way an apparent drought can turn to. Anyone who does it with understanding, made possible
could have it all.

It had become undeniably that Beatrice did not see what you see, had not felt what they would have to
feel that their perpetual motion was nothing more than a Escape him. Anger was often the rest of
his dark reflection. The attraction increases with the square of the distance, he used to say
ironically, and with his pedantic thoroughness he wanted to see exactly
which properties it by Beate become so indispensable.

But here, made his thoughts stop, and a tenderness as they knew only be sealed on all sides heart,
he saw again the strong and capricious nature of the child in it,
which his own, weak become will be had to throw with equal humor.

»Trabs already said about like a bear," Beate, but jumped at the same time, as it sounded had.
Soon joined Arnold and Hank was with hearty handshake, by Beate greeted
with a bit clumsy cold.

All three sat down at once to the table. Outside had The sky darkened, thunder and wind blew through
the garden. Hanka rose again, turned on the electric flames and asked Arnold why he came so
late.

"As punishment, you should really get nothing to eat," Beatrice said angrily. Arnold did not apologize.
"I have hesitated until the last, if I should come," he said. "The
is not polite, Beate, but there is a reason.

"

Beate started. "He's always a reason," she said acidly.

"As an old friend you are too sharp," Hank remarked good-naturedly.

He was happy actually Ansorge that Arnold was sitting opposite him now, it seemed almost important
to these people Watch and see. From such wood carving are friends,
he thought.

Under the thunder rolling in, they began to eat. Beate but soon put
a knife and fork out, and her face changed visibly in fear.

Yes, with the storms, "Hank said, frowning. "For a woman who grew up in the country is, that's shameful.
"

An extraordinary flash the lights of the room was pale.

After the long thunder Beatrice rose and muttered to himself bewildered.

Hanka also rose. He took Beatrice's hands and tried to calm her down. A second Lightning produced
a convulsive trembling of her body.

Full-violence they encountered Hanka on its own, with a witch-like expression, she screamed into
the thunder: "I do not want I wanted to show you, "and ran from the room.

Hanka followed her at once. After a while he came back, called her maid, and Arnold found himself
once again alone at the dining table. He took less interest in this performance, as it was in his interest
full essence. What came from Beate slipped past him and mixed so little with his mind, such
as oil with the water. Perhaps, however, was the play of the elements out there for him more appealing
and touching as the anguish of a little selfish soul. He walked slowly to the garden window, and
by the light of the flashes, he felt called upon bear truth in this house. And the behavior
of beats, rather than to vote compassionate, made him their whole person downright suspicious.

Impartial
and opened almost humorous, came back Hanka.

"She is wrapped in bed linen and the ears plugged, "he said. "I had to promise her that you
will go soon. Have you ever had anything to her? It is beyond me. Come, my friend eating we continue.
I'm glad you're here and you will not let go so quickly again. "

Frau Beate fears might leave me alone with you, "replied Arnold quietly and Hanka was followed
to the table.

Why? Why fear? She wanted to yourself that you were once with us. "Cheerful and full Appetite lay Hanka
meat and vegetables on the plate.

"I can explain to me," said Arnold. "Maybe they wanted to see just a matter of order how they
must behave towards me. "

Eh, what you have become a psychologist! However, what you say, has something for themselves.
It is women often want to have hated the close. Therein lies a childish instinct to protect
themselves. But it is ridiculous, if you agree with the Beate. Beate is much too naive to do so.
"

Arnold said nothing. Hesitancy came over him. And he felt now from Hanka words clearly a complete
ignorance.

This aroused in him a silent anger against the deceitful woman.

"It affected us, I would say aesthetically, if women are afraid of thunderstorms," Hanka went away excited
talk. "In a woman is something as elementary as in an electric cloud, and one might almost
think that nature is a joke of it makes to have burst their latent instincts against each other.
Like is for me more pleasant as depressing. "

A bluish lightning flashed through the room, cut off Hanka speech and the almost simultaneous
Thundering crash shook the walls and rattled the dishes.

"Why do not woodpeckers actually come from?" Said Arnold, as he looked towards the window, to
which the rain was whipped. "He told me first that he would be here. It I find only because
I saw him yesterday with his wife Beatrice in a closed car. "

Hanka looked up quickly and made a very much surprised. "So," he said briefly. He suddenly
remembered that he had appeared for the hours and unusual, Beate yesterday was spent at the dressmaker.
He shook his head and said with a uncertain and benevolent smile, "That you might deceive."

"I am not mistaken," said Arnold, "though the curtains of the car just a moment were pushed back. "

Hanka
stopped eating. Why she told me about it? he thought, as if still even by force to cheat. He leaned
back in his chair, opened his mouth, closed him, but again, without talking. On both sides of
the nose was a strange yellowish pallor produced.
"I thought you knew everything about what was between woodpecker
and your wife," went to Arnold relentless Ernst continued. He was
leaning his elbows on the table and his head in his hand Hanka, looking
at not moving. "Both were in Podolin as man and woman, day and Night.
I know and would not tell you, if I do not know. That's why you hear
everything at once, so I do not torture. According to Specht they
had a relationship with the foreman Random deer on the property, that
is, in the beginning, they deceived the one with the other until the
Obedient servant, she was by blows. Of which the maids knew when to
tell us every day. I have always said a voice that you are in darkness,
because you saw a different Beate had, perhaps not even wanted, it
would have been honest. Thoughts engaged I am so forth, as hard as
it is, I think the life of a lie, others of truth, the two must be
kept apart. That's all. "

While these words were the yellow spots
on Hanka face increased steadily. He also looked unmoved in the face
of his opposite, and gradually he lost consciousness the fact that
a man sitting there, he saw only an off-white circle, he felt as if
it was the moon, which was heruntergeglitten from heaven to speak.
However, he listened, listened. He felt a huge, twisted pain in the
head, and had finished as Arnold, slipped a thin, insipid smile on
his lips. Arnold was silent and said nothing Hanka, and they sat long
in silence as the storm trailed off. Hanka finally moved his Chair,
leaned forward, as he was making a compliment and said in a hoarse
voice and judicial Sharpness, which he tore open the black eyes wide:
"Evidence -"?

Arnold did not reply, he fixed his eyes in silence
those Hanka. It was a superior, rigorous and elegant look in his eyes
as in his face and leaned Hanka back as if he would have forgotten
his word. He put a hand on the smooth Head, color returned to his
cheeks and disappeared from it. He gave a vague short sound, got up
and as a sign of his text he lit a slow Cigar. Then he went silently
striding up and down. Arnold also left its place. "Goodbye, Doctor
Hanka," he said, "Friend or foe, and how you want to call me stands
with you. "

Hanka turned his back, folded his arms and looked at
the windows. But when Arnold turned to the door, he walked towards
him, looked at him with an incredible view and handed him to the damp
cold hand.

Thirty-sixth chapter

Hanka was continuing his walk across
the room. He now thought not of himself, Beate yet, but he turned
his thoughts to the first person Arnolds. He envisioned to the Arnold,
whom he met in Podolin and held the objection to the now spoken to
him. He accused were from a plumb line to measure the depth of trust
in this man. The lot fell far. He had to recognize a mind that loved
the honesty of it all. And finally he had to admit that this man was
out of sympathy for him, Hanka, to teach you to see. Consequently,
I was blind, thought Hanka. Violently he was looking for a haßartiges
to ward off cold feeling against Arnold on his own. How he might face,
he could still do not believe. It seemed for a while fantastic, is
a doubt to yield to Beate. What leads him here? thought it sad and
defiant. Pity? It would even His truth is not true. How could he accept
that, between us no mutual knowledge was? Hanka self-esteem began
to rear up. Perhaps he himself was despised and plays the traitor,
he mused in despair, but a shiver ran over his skin, as if it had
touched disgust. Hundreds considerations burned his brain, by a hundred
artifices he sought the face of the Prosecutor, deface, he always
shook his head and returned back to himself: I was so blind! And again
he went up and down. He turned around her loud beats with all their
faces, their gestures, could linger all their words, to which he was
recalled, began to study at their silence, and finally it seemed to
him as if each of these images, a mask skin fell off, and he saw lack
of love, in childish Robe veiled hypocrisy among thousands of deceptive
smile. What should I do? escaped and he finally seemed to him that
he must lie on the ground to years only about thinking. Only now he
was thinking that he could indeed go to Beate and that then all must
be decided.  They fell into his, while her arms, extended but not rigid,
kept him far enough off to let her surrendered face say the rest.

They may have stood in that way for a long time, or only for a few moments; but it was long
enough for her silence to communicate all she had to say, and for him to feel that only one
thing mattered.  He must do nothing to make this meeting their last; he must leave their future
in her care, asking only that she should keep fast hold of it.

"Don't--don't be unhappy," she said, with a break in her voice, as she drew her hands away;
and he answered:  "You won't go back--you won't go back?" as if it were the one possibility
he could not bear.

"I won't go back," she said; and turning away she opened the door and led the way into the
public dining-room.

The strident school-teachers were gathering up their possessions preparatory to a straggling
flight to the wharf; across the beach lay the white steam-boat at the pier; and over the sunlit
waters Boston loomed in a line of haze.

XXV.

Once more on the boat, and in the presence of others, Archer felt a tranquillity of spirit
that surprised as much as it sustained him.

The day, according to any current valuation, had been a rather ridiculous failure; he had not
so much as touched Madame Olenska's hand with his lips, or extracted one word from her that
gave promise of farther opportunities.  Nevertheless, for a man sick with unsatisfied love,
and parting for an indefinite period from the object of his passion, he felt himself almost
humiliatingly calm and comforted.  It was the perfect balance she had held between their loyalty
to others and their honesty to themselves that had so stirred and yet tranquillized him; a
balance not artfully calculated, as her tears and her falterings showed, but resulting naturally
from her unabashed sincerity.  It filled him with a tender awe, now the danger was over, and
made him thank the fates that no personal vanity, no sense of playing a part before sophisticated
witnesses, had tempted him to tempt her.  Even after they had clasped hands for good-bye at
the Fall River station, and he had turned away alone, the conviction remained with him of having
saved out of their meeting much more than he had sacrificed.

He wandered back to the club, and went and sat alone in the deserted library, turning and turning
over in his thoughts every separate second of their hours together.  It was clear to him, and
it grew more clear under closer scrutiny, that if she should finally decide on returning to
Europe--returning to her husband--it would not be because her old life tempted her, even on
the new terms offered.  No: she would go only if she felt herself becoming a temptation to
Archer, a temptation to fall away from the standard they had both set up.  Her choice would
be to stay near him as long as he did not ask her to come nearer; and it depended on himself
to keep her just there, safe but secluded.

In the train these thoughts were still with him.  They enclosed him in a kind of golden haze,
through which the faces about him looked remote and indistinct: he had a feeling that if he
spoke to his fellow-travellers they would not understand what he was saying.  In this state
of abstraction he found himself, the following morning, waking to the reality of a stifling
September day in New York.  The heat-withered faces in the long train streamed past him, and
he continued to stare at them through the same golden blur; but suddenly, as he left the station,
one of the faces detached itself, came closer and forced itself upon his consciousness.  It
was, as he instantly recalled, the face of the young man he had seen, the day before, passing
out of the Parker House, and had noted as not conforming to type, as not having an American
hotel face.

The same thing struck him now; and again he became aware of a dim stir of former associations.
The young man stood looking about him with the dazed air of the foreigner flung upon the harsh
mercies of American travel; then he advanced toward Archer, lifted his hat, and said in English:
"Surely, Monsieur, we met in London?"

"Ah, to be sure: in London!"  Archer grasped his hand with curiosity and sympathy.  "So you
DID get here, after all?" he exclaimed, casting a wondering eye on the astute and haggard little
countenance of young Carfry's French tutor.

"Oh, I got here--yes," M. Riviere smiled with drawn lips.  "But not for long; I return the
day after tomorrow." He stood grasping his light valise in one neatly gloved hand, and gazing
anxiously, perplexedly, almost appealingly, into Archer's face.

"I wonder, Monsieur, since I've had the good luck to run across you, if I might--"

"I was just going to suggest it: come to luncheon, won't you?  Down town, I mean: if you'll
look me up in my office I'll take you to a very decent restaurant in that quarter."

M. Riviere was visibly touched and surprised.  "You're too kind.  But I was only going to ask
if you would tell me how to reach some sort of conveyance.  There are no porters, and no one
here seems to listen--"

"I know: our American stations must surprise you.  When you ask for a porter they give you
chewing-gum.  But if you'll come along I'll extricate you; and you must really lunch with me,
you know."

The young man, after a just perceptible hesitation, replied, with profuse thanks, and in a
tone that did not carry complete conviction, that he was already engaged; but when they had
reached the comparative reassurance of the street he asked if he might call that afternoon.

Archer, at ease in the midsummer leisure of the office, fixed an hour and scribbled his address,
which the Frenchman pocketed with reiterated thanks and a wide flourish of his hat.  A horse-car
received him, and Archer walked away.

Punctually at the hour M. Riviere appeared, shaved, smoothed-out, but still unmistakably drawn
and serious.  Archer was alone in his office, and the young man, before accepting the seat
he proffered, began abruptly: "I believe I saw you, sir, yesterday in Boston."

The statement was insignificant enough, and Archer was about to frame an assent when his words
were checked by something mysterious yet illuminating in his visitor's insistent gaze.

"It is extraordinary, very extraordinary," M. Riviere continued, "that we should have met in
the circumstances in which I find myself."

"What circumstances?" Archer asked, wondering a little crudely if he needed money.

M. Riviere continued to study him with tentative eyes.  "I have come, not to look for employment,
as I spoke of doing when we last met, but on a special mission--"

"Ah--!" Archer exclaimed.  In a flash the two meetings had connected themselves in his mind.
He paused to take in the situation thus suddenly lighted up for him, and M. Riviere also remained
silent, as if aware that what he had said was enough.

"A special mission," Archer at length repeated.

The young Frenchman, opening his palms, raised them slightly, and the two men continued to
look at each other across the office-desk till Archer roused himself to say:  "Do sit down";
whereupon M. Riviere bowed, took a distant chair, and again waited.

"It was about this mission that you wanted to consult me?" Archer finally asked.

M. Riviere bent his head.  "Not in my own behalf: on that score I--I have fully dealt with
myself.  I should like--if I may--to speak to you about the Countess Olenska."

Archer had known for the last few minutes that the words were coming; but when they came they
sent the blood rushing to his temples as if he had been caught by a bent-back branch in a thicket.

"And on whose behalf," he said, "do you wish to do this?"

M. Riviere met the question sturdily.  "Well--I might say HERS, if it did not sound like a
liberty.  Shall I say instead: on behalf of abstract justice?"

Archer considered him ironically.  "In other words: you are Count Olenski's messenger?"

He saw his blush more darkly reflected in M. Riviere's sallow countenance.  "Not to YOU, Monsieur.
If I come to you, it is on quite other grounds."

"What right have you, in the circumstances, to BE on any other ground?" Archer retorted.  "If
you're an emissary you're an emissary."

The young man considered.  "My mission is over: as far as the Countess Olenska goes, it has
failed."

"I can't help that," Archer rejoined on the same note of irony.

"No: but you can help--"  M. Riviere paused, turned his hat about in his still carefully gloved
hands, looked into its lining and then back at Archer's face.  "You can help, Monsieur, I am
convinced, to make it equally a failure with her family."

Archer pushed back his chair and stood up.  "Well--and by God I will!" he exclaimed.  He stood
with his hands in his pockets, staring down wrathfully at the little Frenchman, whose face,
though he too had risen, was still an inch or two below the line of Archer's eyes.

M. Riviere paled to his normal hue: paler than that his complexion could hardly turn.

"Why the devil," Archer explosively continued, "should you have thought--since I suppose you're
appealing to me on the ground of my relationship to Madame Olenska--that I should take a view
contrary to the rest of her family?"

The change of expression in M. Riviere's face was for a time his only answer.  His look passed
from timidity to absolute distress: for a young man of his usually resourceful mien it would
have been difficult to appear more disarmed and defenceless.  "Oh, Monsieur--"

"I can't imagine," Archer continued, "why you should have come to me when there are others
so much nearer to the Countess; still less why you thought I should be more accessible to the
arguments I suppose you were sent over with."

M. Riviere took this onslaught with a disconcerting humility.  "The arguments I want to present
to you, Monsieur, are my own and not those I was sent over with."

"Then I see still less reason for listening to them."

M. Riviere again looked into his hat, as if considering whether these last words were not a
sufficiently broad hint to put it on and be gone. Then he spoke with sudden decision.  "Monsieur--will
you tell me one thing?  Is it my right to be here that you question?  Or do you perhaps believe
the whole matter to be already closed?"

His quiet insistence made Archer feel the clumsiness of his own bluster.  M. Riviere had succeeded
in imposing himself:  Archer, reddening slightly, dropped into his chair again, and signed
to the young man to be seated.

"I beg your pardon: but why isn't the matter closed?"

M. Riviere gazed back at him with anguish.  "You do, then, agree with the rest of the family
that, in face of the new proposals I have brought, it is hardly possible for Madame Olenska
not to return to her husband?"

"Good God!" Archer exclaimed; and his visitor gave out a low murmur of confirmation.

"Before seeing her, I saw--at Count Olenski's request--Mr. Lovell Mingott, with whom I had
several talks before going to Boston.  I understand that he represents his mother's view; and
that Mrs. Manson Mingott's influence is great throughout her family."

Archer sat silent, with the sense of clinging to the edge of a sliding precipice.  The discovery
that he had been excluded from a share in these negotiations, and even from the knowledge that
they were on foot, caused him a surprise hardly dulled by the acuter wonder of what he was
learning.  He saw in a flash that if the family had ceased to consult him it was because some
deep tribal instinct warned them that he was no longer on their side; and he recalled, with
a start of comprehension, a remark of May's during their drive home from Mrs. Manson Mingott's
on the day of the Archery Meeting:  "Perhaps, after all, Ellen would be happier with her husband."

Even in the tumult of new discoveries Archer remembered his indignant exclamation, and the
fact that since then his wife had never named Madame Olenska to him.  Her careless allusion
had no doubt been the straw held up to see which way the wind blew; the result had been reported
to the family, and thereafter Archer had been tacitly omitted from their counsels.  He admired
the tribal discipline which made May bow to this decision.  She would not have done so, he
knew, had her conscience protested; but she probably shared the family view that Madame Olenska
would be better off as an unhappy wife than as a separated one, and that there was no use in
discussing the case with Newland, who had an awkward way of suddenly not seeming to take the
most fundamental things for granted.

Archer looked up and met his visitor's anxious gaze.  "Don't you know, Monsieur--is it possible
you don't know--that the family begin to doubt if they have the right to advise the Countess
to refuse her husband's last proposals?"

"The proposals you brought?"

"The proposals I brought."

It was on Archer's lips to exclaim that whatever he knew or did not know was no concern of
M. Riviere's; but something in the humble and yet courageous tenacity of M. Riviere's gaze
made him reject this conclusion, and he met the young man's question with another.  "What is
your object in speaking to me of this?"

He had not to wait a moment for the answer.  "To beg you, Monsieur--to beg you with all the
force I'm capable of--not to let her go back.--Oh, don't let her!" M. Riviere exclaimed.

Archer looked at him with increasing astonishment.  There was no mistaking the sincerity of
his distress or the strength of his determination: he had evidently resolved to let everything
go by the board but the supreme need of thus putting himself on record.  Archer considered.

"May I ask," he said at length, "if this is the line you took with the Countess Olenska?"

M. Riviere reddened, but his eyes did not falter.  "No, Monsieur: I accepted my mission in
good faith.  I really believed--for reasons I need not trouble you with--that it would be better
for Madame Olenska to recover her situation, her fortune, the social consideration that her
husband's standing gives her."

"So I supposed: you could hardly have accepted such a mission otherwise."

"I should not have accepted it."

"Well, then--?"  Archer paused again, and their eyes met in another protracted scrutiny.

"Ah, Monsieur, after I had seen her, after I had listened to her, I knew she was better off here."

"You knew--?"

"Monsieur, I discharged my mission faithfully: I put the Count's arguments, I stated his offers,
without adding any comment of my own. The Countess was good enough to listen patiently; she
carried her goodness so far as to see me twice; she considered impartially all I had come to
say.  And it was in the course of these two talks that I changed my mind, that I came to see
things differently."

"May I ask what led to this change?"

"Simply seeing the change in HER," M. Riviere replied.

"The change in her?  Then you knew her before?"

The young man's colour again rose.  "I used to see her in her husband's house.  I have known
Count Olenski for many years.  You can imagine that he would not have sent a stranger on such
a mission."

Archer's gaze, wandering away to the blank walls of the office, rested on a hanging calendar
surmounted by the rugged features of the President of the United States.  That such a conversation
should be going on anywhere within the millions of square miles subject to his rule seemed
as strange as anything that the imagination could invent.

"The change--what sort of a change?"

"Ah, Monsieur, if I could tell you!"  M. Riviere paused.  "Tenez--the discovery, I suppose,
of what I'd never thought of before: that she's an American.  And that if you're an American
of HER kind--of your kind--things that are accepted in certain other societies, or at least
put up with as part of a general convenient give-and-take--become unthinkable, simply unthinkable.
If Madame Olenska's relations understood what these things were, their opposition to her returning
would no doubt be as unconditional as her own; but they seem to regard her husband's wish to
have her back as proof of an irresistible longing for domestic life."  M. Riviere paused, and
then added:  "Whereas it's far from being as simple as that."

Archer looked back to the President of the United States, and then down at his desk and at
the papers scattered on it.  For a second or two he could not trust himself to speak.  During
this interval he heard M. Riviere's chair pushed back, and was aware that the young man had
risen.  When he glanced up again he saw that his visitor was as moved as himself.

"Thank you," Archer said simply.

"There's nothing to thank me for, Monsieur: it is I, rather--"  M. Riviere broke off, as if
speech for him too were difficult.  "I should like, though," he continued in a firmer voice,
"to add one thing.  You asked me if I was in Count Olenski's employ.  I am at this moment:
I returned to him, a few months ago, for reasons of private necessity such as may happen to
any one who has persons, ill and older persons, dependent on him.  But from the moment that
I have taken the step of coming here to say these things to you I consider myself discharged,
and I shall tell him so on my return, and give him the reasons.  That's all, Monsieur."

M. Riviere bowed and drew back a step.

"Thank you," Archer said again, as their hands met.

XXVI.

Every year on the fifteenth of October Fifth Avenue opened its shutters, unrolled its carpets
and hung up its triple layer of window-curtains.

By the first of November this household ritual was over, and society had begun to look about
and take stock of itself.  By the fifteenth the season was in full blast, Opera and theatres
were putting forth their new attractions, dinner-engagements were accumulating, and dates for
dances being fixed.  And punctually at about this time Mrs. Archer always said that New York
was very much changed.

Observing it from the lofty stand-point of a non-participant, she was able, with the help of
Mr. Sillerton Jackson and Miss Sophy, to trace each new crack in its surface, and all the strange
weeds pushing up between the ordered rows of social vegetables.  It had been one of the amusements
of Archer's youth to wait for this annual pronouncement of his mother's, and to hear her enumerate
the minute signs of disintegration that his careless gaze had overlooked.  For New York, to
Mrs. Archer's mind, never changed without changing for the worse; and in this view Miss Sophy
Jackson heartily concurred.

Mr. Sillerton Jackson, as became a man of the world, suspended his judgment and listened with
an amused impartiality to the lamentations of the ladies.  But even he never denied that New
York had changed; and Newland Archer, in the winter of the second year of his marriage, was
himself obliged to admit that if it had not actually changed it was certainly changing.

These points had been raised, as usual, at Mrs. Archer's Thanksgiving dinner.  At the date
when she was officially enjoined to give thanks for the blessings of the year it was her habit
to take a mournful though not embittered stock of her world, and wonder what there was to be
thankful for.  At any rate, not the state of society; society, if it could be said to exist,
was rather a spectacle on which to call down Biblical imprecations--and in fact, every one
knew what the Reverend Dr. Ashmore meant when he chose a text from Jeremiah (chap. ii., verse
25) for his Thanksgiving sermon.  Dr. Ashmore, the new Rector of St. Matthew's, had been chosen
because he was very "advanced": his sermons were considered bold in thought and novel in language.
When he fulminated against fashionable society he always spoke of its "trend"; and to Mrs.
Archer it was terrifying and yet fascinating to feel herself part of a community that was trending.

"There's no doubt that Dr. Ashmore is right: there IS a marked trend," she said, as if it were
something visible and measurable, like a crack in a house.

"It was odd, though, to preach about it on Thanksgiving," Miss Jackson opined; and her hostess
drily rejoined:  "Oh, he means us to give thanks for what's left."

Archer had been wont to smile at these annual vaticinations of his mother's; but this year
even he was obliged to acknowledge, as he listened to an enumeration of the changes, that the
"trend" was visible.

"The extravagance in dress--" Miss Jackson began.  "Sillerton took me to the first night of
the Opera, and I can only tell you that Jane Merry's dress was the only one I recognised from
last year; and even that had had the front panel changed.  Yet I know she got it out from Worth
only two years ago, because my seamstress always goes in to make over her Paris dresses before
she wears them."

"Ah, Jane Merry is one of US," said Mrs. Archer sighing, as if it were not such an enviable
thing to be in an age when ladies were beginning to flaunt abroad their Paris dresses as soon
as they were out of the Custom House, instead of letting them mellow under lock and key, in
the manner of Mrs. Archer's contemporaries.

"Yes; she's one of the few.  In my youth," Miss Jackson rejoined, "it was considered vulgar
to dress in the newest fashions; and Amy Sillerton has always told me that in Boston the rule
was to put away one's Paris dresses for two years.  Old Mrs. Baxter Pennilow, who did everything
handsomely, used to import twelve a year, two velvet, two satin, two silk, and the other six
of poplin and the finest cashmere. It was a standing order, and as she was ill for two years
before she died they found forty-eight Worth dresses that had never been taken out of tissue
paper; and when the girls left off their mourning they were able to wear the first lot at the
Symphony concerts without looking in advance of the fashion."

"Ah, well, Boston is more conservative than New York; but I always think it's a safe rule for
a lady to lay aside her French dresses for one season," Mrs. Archer conceded.

"It was Beaufort who started the new fashion by making his wife clap her new clothes on her
back as soon as they arrived: I must say at times it takes all Regina's distinction not to
look like ... like ..." Miss Jackson glanced around the table, caught Janey's bulging gaze,
and took refuge in an unintelligible murmur.

"Like her rivals," said Mr. Sillerton Jackson, with the air of producing an epigram.

"Oh,--" the ladies murmured; and Mrs. Archer added, partly to distract her daughter's attention
from forbidden topics:  "Poor Regina!  Her Thanksgiving hasn't been a very cheerful one, I'm
afraid.  Have you heard the rumours about Beaufort's speculations, Sillerton?"

Mr. Jackson nodded carelessly.  Every one had heard the rumours in question, and he scorned
to confirm a tale that was already common property.

A gloomy silence fell upon the party.  No one really liked Beaufort, and it was not wholly
unpleasant to think the worst of his private life; but the idea of his having brought financial
dishonour on his wife's family was too shocking to be enjoyed even by his enemies. Archer's
New York tolerated hypocrisy in private relations; but in business matters it exacted a limpid
and impeccable honesty.  It was a long time since any well-known banker had failed discreditably;
but every one remembered the social extinction visited on the heads of the firm when the last
event of the kind had happened.  It would be the same with the Beauforts, in spite of his power
and her popularity; not all the leagued strength of the Dallas connection would save poor Regina
if there were any truth in the reports of her husband's unlawful speculations.

The talk took refuge in less ominous topics; but everything they touched on seemed to confirm
Mrs. Archer's sense of an accelerated trend.

"Of course, Newland, I know you let dear May go to Mrs. Struthers's Sunday evenings--" she
began; and May interposed gaily:  "Oh, you know, everybody goes to Mrs. Struthers's now; and
she was invited to Granny's last reception."

It was thus, Archer reflected, that New York managed its transitions: conspiring to ignore
them till they were well over, and then, in all good faith, imagining that they had taken place
in a preceding age. There was always a traitor in the citadel; and after he (or generally she)
had surrendered the keys, what was the use of pretending that it was impregnable?  Once people
had tasted of Mrs. Struthers's easy Sunday hospitality they were not likely to sit at home
remembering that her champagne was transmuted Shoe-Polish.

"I know, dear, I know," Mrs. Archer sighed.  "Such things have to be, I suppose, as long as
AMUSEMENT is what people go out for; but I've never quite forgiven your cousin Madame Olenska
for being the first person to countenance Mrs. Struthers."

A sudden blush rose to young Mrs. Archer's face; it surprised her husband as much as the other
guests about the table.  "Oh, ELLEN--" she murmured, much in the same accusing and yet deprecating
tone in which her parents might have said:  "Oh, THE BLENKERS--."

It was the note which the family had taken to sounding on the mention of the Countess Olenska's
name, since she had surprised and inconvenienced them by remaining obdurate to her husband's
advances; but on May's lips it gave food for thought, and Archer looked at her with the sense
of strangeness that sometimes came over him when she was most in the tone of her environment.

His mother, with less than her usual sensitiveness to atmosphere, still insisted:  "I've always
thought that people like the Countess Olenska, who have lived in aristocratic societies, ought
to help us to keep up our social distinctions, instead of ignoring them."

May's blush remained permanently vivid: it seemed to have a significance beyond that implied
by the recognition of Madame Olenska's social bad faith.

"I've no doubt we all seem alike to foreigners," said Miss Jackson tartly.

"I don't think Ellen cares for society; but nobody knows exactly what she does care for," May
continued, as if she had been groping for something noncommittal.

"Ah, well--" Mrs. Archer sighed again.

Everybody knew that the Countess Olenska was no longer in the good graces of her family.  Even
her devoted champion, old Mrs. Manson Mingott, had been unable to defend her refusal to return
to her husband.  The Mingotts had not proclaimed their disapproval aloud: their sense of solidarity
was too strong.  They had simply, as Mrs. Welland said, "let poor Ellen find her own level"--and
that, mortifyingly and incomprehensibly, was in the dim depths where the Blenkers prevailed,
and "people who wrote" celebrated their untidy rites.  It was incredible, but it was a fact,
that Ellen, in spite of all her opportunities and her privileges, had become simply "Bohemian."
The fact enforced the contention that she had made a fatal mistake in not returning to Count
Olenski.  After all, a young woman's place was under her husband's roof, especially when she
had left it in circumstances that ... well ... if one had cared to look into them ...

"Madame Olenska is a great favourite with the gentlemen," said Miss Sophy, with her air of
wishing to put forth something conciliatory when she knew that she was planting a dart.

"Ah, that's the danger that a young woman like Madame Olenska is always exposed to," Mrs. Archer
mournfully agreed; and the ladies, on this conclusion, gathered up their trains to seek the
carcel globes of the drawing-room, while Archer and Mr. Sillerton Jackson withdrew to the Gothic
library.

Once established before the grate, and consoling himself for the inadequacy of the dinner by
the perfection of his cigar, Mr. Jackson became portentous and communicable.

"If the Beaufort smash comes," he announced, "there are going to be disclosures."

Archer raised his head quickly: he could never hear the name without the sharp vision of Beaufort's
heavy figure, opulently furred and shod, advancing through the snow at Skuytercliff.

"There's bound to be," Mr. Jackson continued, "the nastiest kind of a cleaning up.  He hasn't
spent all his money on Regina."

"Oh, well--that's discounted, isn't it?  My belief is he'll pull out yet," said the young man,
wanting to change the subject.

"Perhaps--perhaps.  I know he was to see some of the influential people today.  Of course,"
Mr. Jackson reluctantly conceded, "it's to be hoped they can tide him over--this time anyhow.
I shouldn't like to think of poor Regina's spending the rest of her life in some shabby foreign
watering-place for bankrupts."

Archer said nothing.  It seemed to him so natural--however tragic--that money ill-gotten should
be cruelly expiated, that his mind, hardly lingering over Mrs. Beaufort's doom, wandered back
to closer questions. What was the meaning of May's blush when the Countess Olenska had been
mentioned?

Four months had passed since the midsummer day that he and Madame Olenska had spent together;
and since then he had not seen her.  He knew that she had returned to Washington, to the little
house which she and Medora Manson had taken there: he had written to her once--a few words,
asking when they were to meet again--and she had even more briefly replied: "Not yet."

Since then there had been no farther communication between them, and he had built up within
himself a kind of sanctuary in which she throned among his secret thoughts and longings.  Little
by little it became the scene of his real life, of his only rational activities; thither he
brought the books he read, the ideas and feelings which nourished him, his judgments and his
visions.  Outside it, in the scene of his actual life, he moved with a growing sense of unreality
and insufficiency, blundering against familiar prejudices and traditional points of view as
an absent-minded man goes on bumping into the furniture of his own room.  Absent--that was
what he was: so absent from everything most densely real and near to those about him that it
sometimes startled him to find they still imagined he was there.

He became aware that Mr. Jackson was clearing his throat preparatory to farther revelations.

"I don't know, of course, how far your wife's family are aware of what people say about--well,
about Madame Olenska's refusal to accept her husband's latest offer."

Archer was silent, and Mr. Jackson obliquely continued: "It's a pity--it's certainly a pity--that
she refused it."

"A pity?  In God's name, why?"

Mr. Jackson looked down his leg to the unwrinkled sock that joined it to a glossy pump.

"Well--to put it on the lowest ground--what's she going to live on now?"

"Now--?"

"If Beaufort--"

Archer sprang up, his fist banging down on the black walnut-edge of the writing-table.  The
wells of the brass double-inkstand danced in their sockets.

"What the devil do you mean, sir?"

Mr. Jackson, shifting himself slightly in his chair, turned a tranquil gaze on the young man's
burning face.

"Well--I have it on pretty good authority--in fact, on old Catherine's herself--that the family
reduced Countess Olenska's allowance considerably when she definitely refused to go back to
her husband; and as, by this refusal, she also forfeits the money settled on her when she married--which
Olenski was ready to make over to her if she returned--why, what the devil do YOU mean, my
dear boy, by asking me what I mean?" Mr. Jackson good-humouredly retorted.

Archer moved toward the mantelpiece and bent over to knock his ashes into the grate.

"I don't know anything of Madame Olenska's private affairs; but I don't need to, to be certain
that what you insinuate--"

"Oh, I don't: it's Lefferts, for one," Mr. Jackson interposed.

"Lefferts--who made love to her and got snubbed for it!" Archer broke out contemptuously.

"Ah--DID he?" snapped the other, as if this were exactly the fact he had been laying a trap
for.  He still sat sideways from the fire, so that his hard old gaze held Archer's face as
if in a spring of steel.

"Well, well: it's a pity she didn't go back before Beaufort's cropper," he repeated.  "If she
goes NOW, and if he fails, it will only confirm the general impression: which isn't by any
means peculiar to Lefferts, by the way."

"Oh, she won't go back now: less than ever!"  Archer had no sooner said it than he had once
more the feeling that it was exactly what Mr. Jackson had been waiting for.

The old gentleman considered him attentively.  "That's your opinion, eh?  Well, no doubt you
know.  But everybody will tell you that the few pennies Medora Manson has left are all in Beaufort's
hands; and how the two women are to keep their heads above water unless he does, I can't imagine.
Of course, Madame Olenska may still soften old Catherine, who's been the most inexorably opposed
to her staying; and old Catherine could make her any allowance she chooses.  But we all know
that she hates parting with good money; and the rest of the family have no particular interest
in keeping Madame Olenska here."

Archer was burning with unavailing wrath: he was exactly in the state when a man is sure to
do something stupid, knowing all the while that he is doing it.

He saw that Mr. Jackson had been instantly struck by the fact that Madame Olenska's differences
with her grandmother and her other relations were not known to him, and that the old gentleman
had drawn his own conclusions as to the reasons for Archer's exclusion from the family councils.
This fact warned Archer to go warily; but the insinuations about Beaufort made him reckless.
He was mindful, however, if not of his own danger, at least of the fact that Mr. Jackson was
under his mother's roof, and consequently his guest.  Old New York scrupulously observed the
etiquette of hospitality, and no discussion with a guest was ever allowed to degenerate into
a disagreement.

"Shall we go up and join my mother?" he suggested curtly, as Mr. Jackson's last cone of ashes
dropped into the brass ashtray at his elbow.

On the drive homeward May remained oddly silent; through the darkness, he still felt her enveloped
in her menacing blush.  What its menace meant he could not guess: but he was sufficiently warned
by the fact that Madame Olenska's name had evoked it.

They went upstairs, and he turned into the library.  She usually followed him; but he heard
her passing down the passage to her bedroom.

"May!" he called out impatiently; and she came back, with a slight glance of surprise at his tone.

"This lamp is smoking again; I should think the servants might see that it's kept properly
trimmed," he grumbled nervously.

"I'm so sorry: it shan't happen again," she answered, in the firm bright tone she had learned
from her mother; and it exasperated Archer to feel that she was already beginning to humour
him like a younger Mr. Welland.  She bent over to lower the wick, and as the light struck up
on her white shoulders and the clear curves of her face he thought: "How young she is!  For
what endless years this life will have to go on!"

He felt, with a kind of horror, his own strong youth and the bounding blood in his veins. 
"Look here," he said suddenly, "I may have to go to Washington for a few days--soon; next week
perhaps."

Her hand remained on the key of the lamp as she turned to him slowly. The heat from its flame
had brought back a glow to her face, but it paled as she looked up.

"On business?" she asked, in a tone which implied that there could be no other conceivable
reason, and that she had put the question automatically, as if merely to finish his own sentence.

"On business, naturally.  There's a patent case coming up before the Supreme Court--"  He gave
the name of the inventor, and went on furnishing details with all Lawrence Lefferts's practised
glibness, while she listened attentively, saying at intervals:  "Yes, I see."

"The change will do you good," she said simply, when he had finished; "and you must be sure
to go and see Ellen," she added, looking him straight in the eyes with her cloudless smile,
and speaking in the tone she might have employed in urging him not to neglect some irksome
family duty.

It was the only word that passed between them on the subject; but in the code in which they
had both been trained it meant:  "Of course you understand that I know all that people have
been saying about Ellen, and heartily sympathise with my family in their effort to get her
to return to her husband.  I also know that, for some reason you have not chosen to tell me,
you have advised her against this course, which all the older men of the family, as well as
our grandmother, agree in approving; and that it is owing to your encouragement that Ellen
defies us all, and exposes herself to the kind of criticism of which Mr. Sillerton Jackson
probably gave you, this evening, the hint that has made you so irritable....  Hints have indeed
not been wanting; but since you appear unwilling to take them from others, I offer you this
one myself, in the only form in which well-bred people of our kind can communicate unpleasant
things to each other: by letting you understand that I know you mean to see Ellen when you
are in Washington, and are perhaps going there expressly for that purpose; and that, since
you are sure to see her, I wish you to do so with my full and explicit approval--and to take
the opportunity of letting her know what the course of conduct you have encouraged her in is
likely to lead to." I limit myself therefore with my Activity
throughout this earthly life for a. I do not want me to my destination after death , Neglecting
to take care of fear about my purpose in this life ... This I am convinced interfering certainly
in the great eternal plan of nature if I only Course fulfills all to which they put me in this
world. Not for nothing they gave me this ~ ~ Dependent current scope and set, I researched this
and the dreamy future by - is it not the future ~ ~ a ~ ~ and I will next present for ~ ~ even
to dream that presence again? "

  [1] S. Wilh.

Herzog, H. von Kleist, 1911, p. 65

We had these two bodies of letters - one from a letter dated 19 September 1800, the other from a letter
dated 22 March 1801 - and determined to face each other in detail: occurs because in this opposition
with full clarity the problem out ~ ~, the inner Kleist Relation to the Kantian doctrine involves.
What could the students Kant, Kleist Been in September 1800 to take on the Kantian doctrine so
that it now his entire past and all his previous efforts to sink suddenly saw? Which new moment it was that
in him this disturbance of all his previous convictions brought about? Was it the continuation
of Kant's ethical and philosophical writings on his major theoretical work, it was the intensive
study of the Critique of Pure Reason, so this sudden turnaround occurred in Kleist? It has
been commonly said without this but as far as I can see a really conclusive evidence had been
provided. For the traditional slogan of the "Alleszermalmer Kant, whose power now Kleist learn
to be had - a slogan that recur regularly in this context maintains - and says basically says
nothing at all. As the "Alleszermalmer" might Kant of the older generation, the generation
appear Mendelssohn, which gradually was used to it, in the tenets of the ruling Wolffian school
system and in the Dogmas of rationalist metaphysics, not only truth, but truth ~ the ~ se to
see. But since then, two decades passed during which the positive force and positive content of
Kant's doctrine on all sides was even emerged unmistakable. "What Kleist in particular to the
Kantian doctrine repelled" - so writes William Duke, has treated the relationship to Kant by
all biographers Kleist Kleist's most thoroughly - "Had the dubious relativity of all things,
was the icy skepticism to him from those an empty restriction grinned. He longed for the absolute
and Kant taught him that nothing fixed. "But where and when would Kant, would have the Critique
of Pure Reason" something like this taught? It may possibly, though extremely inaccurate and
misleading, the critical philosophy described as the doctrine of the relativity of all things ~
~: but relativizing the concept of truth ~ ~ seems to be the exact opposite of what it strives
historically and systematically added. Did not Kant himself with increasing vigor with his passionate intensity
"Transcendental" idealism of the psychological idealism faced Berkeley and He had not the
difference between the two teaching terms set in it, that Berkeley's idealism the material world
and transform the experience into mere appearance, while his intention vice versa to go to understand
the truth of experience ~ ~ and justified? Or was it a truth destroyed by a different form
and origin, as the empirical truth that Kleist by Kant's doctrine found? What the so-called
"metaphysical" truth as regards the attempt to theoretical pure Judging by reason of transcendent
issues and articles, so it was of course by Kant's Critique of soil removed. But they also Kleist himself,
as his assessment of religious questions in the letter proves the September 1800, internally already
renounced. And as always, he might judge them: one was fixed for him in any case that our Judgement
on the meaning and value of life itself from the decision of any of its As could be and should
not depend. For this value - which had yet Kleist level in real Kant emphasized phrases - can not
adoption of this or that proposition, not be based on a knowledge to achieve is not in our power,
but he must be based on the value that is the personality of themselves and they alone, independent
of all external support and assistance given to those able to. And what these ethical Self
as such and its certainty is concerned, was not the slightest doubt possible that Kant him anytime,
anywhere, in its theoretical and in its ethical and religious and philosophical writings, behaupet
with the same unshakable security had - it did it as a universal and necessary for him in
every sense than simply "Absolutely," even as the true expression of the unconditional at all,
looked at her. So there was this only the truth of science: the truth of mathematics and physics
left that Kleist by the critical theory as threatened and destroyed as if to watch. But could
He overlooked the fact that the math "in the Critique of Pure Reason everywhere as the" pride
of reason "was described and praised, and that is precisely the interest in her it is that the critical
System also has the truth and value of all other theoretical disciplines of science justified?
Did Kleist, who himself then tried to physics and its scientific understanding, not understand
and appreciate the tremendous theoretical work that Kant had set out to find the first "a
priori" reasons of science and its only by the strength to give a closed system? Showed not
just the basic question of the Critique of Pure Reason: the question of how synthetic a priori judgments
are possible, returning to this Goal, the goal of objective justification of knowledge in physical
education and necessary reason rates go? But even if we assume that Kleist, Kant does not cool objective
criticism, but with the highest subjective passion and subjective Bias las went away, all these
fine methodological differences and that he only the overall impression of doctrine of transcendental
idealism left, so are by no means eliminates all the difficulties. For precisely this doctrine
had Kleist its general lines to even before the decisive letter to Wilhelmine known be. It is
assumed in Kant's ethical and philosophical writings everywhere and it forms the latent focus
on anything but the coming back out. Man Kant's writings can in the subject matter which may
treat them always, do not step forward, without this, the whole world of ideas to meet Kant's dominant
condition everywhere. Kant's doctrine of intelligible, of the "noumenon" of freedom remains incomprehensible
without its necessary, methodical correlate - with the doctrine of the phenomenal sensory-empirical
Reality. So if Kleist now taken by this teaching in a whole new meaning and if he was overwhelmed
by it, so it must have been a new thought ~ ~ motif to him out of it opposed, - it must have
been a completely new lighting ~ ~, in he now saw the whole of the critical-idealist doctrines.

Thus
we see: the less we are satisfied with mere slogans general, the deeper we seek to penetrate
the mental process that has taken place in Kleist, and the more concrete we seek the opinion of
this process to create in us, the more there have been increasing Puzzles and difficulties. But what
if there is another work, as the Critique of Pure Reason could be named, from which Kleist's
new view of the nature of the transcendental Idealism could have drawn, and from which the new opinion,
which he now he assumes, would immediately understand? Kleist, in his report to Wilhelmine
By "the newer so-called ~ ~ Kantian philosophy with which he has recently become known was. An
expression which must surely stand out because of Kant and his teachings at that time knew
Germany - as a frequently cited verse says - "every child, or thought
something like this to .

Know So what does this odd description? One would immediately understand if the work to which
Kleist refers here to himself while as accurate reflection of the Kantian doctrine called and spending
- but when the question whether such a right to legal was still undecided and was controversial.
Now it was in 1800 - barely a year before the Kleist's letters to Wilhelmine - published a paper
that already expressed in their preface, that all that was outside of the school of the "new philosophy"
useful, complete would constitute: - "presented in that order, in which it is the artless reflection
would develop. " "The deeper preparations, against which objections and excesses of verkünstelten
mind are made, the things that only positive foundation for other sciences is finite, which only
for the pedagogy in the broadest sense, ie for the thoughtful and arbitrary Education of the
human race is one should be excluded from the scope thereof remain ..... The book is, therefore,
not intended for philosophers by profession .. It should understandable to all readers who
would be able to understand a book at all .. It should heat and wear and tear on the reader
firmly by the sensuality of the supersensible .. "Who with the mind, with the educational ideals
and the inner history of education of the young Kleist is familiar, will have to say how much
he was already the announcement ~ ~ a such a goal had to take. And that his interest in the book,
to which she belonged, was directed, but had to make if nothing else, the mere title ~ ~, the above
the book said. The "destiny of man ~ ~" should be taught in it. But that was the big issue that youth
in Kleist's letters on and on returning, that he himself constantly busy and tiring with tenacity,
he again and again with the friends the nurse discussed with the bride. "Let us both, dear Wilhelmina,
- he wrote For example in 1800 in Würzburg - our determination to take quite eye to the future they
To fulfill them once. ~ ~ But then we want to focus all our activities. We want all of our
skills training, just to satisfy this provision only .. Judgments themselves, how can we limited
beings, we in the eternity just so infinitely small pieces, to see our exciting long life on
earth, how can we dare to the plan, the nature for eternity, designed to explore. And if this is
not possible, how can any just god ask us to intervene in this their eternal plan of us who we are
not even able to think of him. But the destiny of our Earth ~ ~ existence, we can find out
where doubt and to fulfill it, which can therefore the deity and probably rightly demand of
us. "Suppose that in the intellectual Kleist Atmosphere that speaks of this letter, a month
later in Berlin arrived again had he does not engage in it almost necessary and active part
to a book, which was then was just released and the determination of the people on the subject and
the author ~ ~ spruce had? Spruce was then - apart from all others - the focus of the general,
of public policy and public-literary interest. Of atheism, had forced him to quit his teaching
post in Jena, everywhere was fresh in my mind. Berlin had been the first asylum, which he
compared to the continuing persecution of the Saxon Government had found the house and Friedrich
Schlegel und Dorothea Veit offered him the first hospitable reception. If we consider further
that Kleist, when, after traveling from his Würzburg Berlin came back already won the first contact
with the local literary circles - Says a letter to Ulrike from this time that he came in little
companies that but of all the Jewish community it would be like if they are not as Pretio Through
their educational activities - so we must think in advance for very unlikely that he a phenomenon
such as spruce and in a work to which he pointed as varied and saw him also through the promised
popular form of presentation recommended that carelessly should be passed.

But, of course, all these external factors by itself a proof. To a Decision, we can only from
the substance of Fichte's work and out of the comparison of this content with the letters get Kleis
tables. The "destiny of man" for Fichte's own literary and philosophical development of crucial
importance: they just called and the sharp turning point at which the "science teaching" that
new Direction will, by which they eventually into the later version ~ ~ philosophy of religion
the system passes. Spruce stands in this expression under the decisive influence of Fr Heinr. ~ ~
Jacobi's doctrine. The entire third positive-constructive part of Fichte's Work is the development
of the concept of faith and the evidence given, that all true Reality that we had available to
us in faith, where and by him alone gives am. Jacobi's word that we are all born in faith, is
quoted explicitly and strengthened. Which form but is now seen from this point, the theoretical
Doctrine of transcendental idealism? He is from now on to be the final, absolutely final result
~ ~ ~ but only a transit point ~ of contemplation, which is essential as such, of course. ~
~ From the standpoint of the doubt, like him of the first part of the script, and ~ ~ from the
standpoint of knowledge, like him, the second portion of the Book developed the first light the
need out of that faith to which they are a last will lead to the result of philosophical reflection.
~ ~ The doubt arises and he tightened More and more, by "our concept
of" nature, with which our unbiased observation necessary, begins
with the moral postulates, with the idea of ​​freedom and personal
responsibility , To compare, we also take as irrefutable claim to us.

Nature can if it is ever thought, just as absolutely seamless connection of things and forces
that are intended only as a self-contained sequence of events in the each subsequent state
is determined by the preceding complete and unambiguous. Also all the phenomena of human consciousness,
and all that we will choice and expression of will call, we must think of this and filed subordinate.
The will itself is just her way of acting of natural forces, with the whole its other forms in
strict linkage and is dependent on them in the strictest sense remains. ~ ~ I do not act but
that general power, that system of forces, we designate by the name of 'nature', works in me,
and I have left is Watching, only the Awareness of this portrayal effectiveness. All that
is there is thoroughly determined, it is what it is, and absolutely nothing else. In every part
of being alive and there is something, because each part is only through the whole, what he
is, by this but necessary ~ the ~ is. " "Give nature the course of a muscle, the deflection of
a hair at a specific individual, and they will, if they think on the whole, and you reply, could
it all good deeds and specify all the misdeeds of his life from the beginning to the end. The good
man is a noble, the vicious and despicable an ignoble, but from the context of the universe
necessary for the end of nature. "

Stands for nothing against this entrenched system of determinism and the moral sense of moral
objection desire in us: the determinism of nothing but the expression of Thought itself and its
supreme principle: the "record" is from the bottom, "explains" last view out his seemingly conflicting
needs and can even its necessity and to deduce. On the floor of the concept of nature is thus absolutely
no other solution possible, where there is no evasion of the last decisive consequence. But
what if we would be able to bring us straight on this foundation in our reflection, if we
see that it has no absolute, but only a relative validity? Is this because, what we are nature,
what we call the being and the reality of things, a fixed, for We do not further resolvable
impenetrable ~ ~ fact - or is it not rather a ~ ~ Term, which we own, which our intellect
and our knowledge to the analysis of phenomena approach bring? And if that were the case - we would
certainly with one stroke of the inescapable Constraints, with the things threatened us so far,
free. Substitute to the place of things se ~ ~ the idea of ​​the things we develop the rules by
which this world of Presentation of original elements from the first initial data of sensation
develops and building: and the whole question is now accepting a different shape. The compulsion
of being melts away and dissolves, in proportion as we understand Being itself as a mere image
~ ~, the hinstellt the thought to himself. And it is in the mediation of this insight is the characteristic
Object of knowledge. Knowledge is not playing for themselves and representation of an existing
absolute being: but it shows the contrary, that this supposedly being an absolute illusion is proposing
the our reflection and our imagination to go. The illusion is overcome, as soon as he sees through
once is, - as soon as we have seen how it arises and according to must rise to the laws of the
thinking consciousness. Now we feel the fatalistic Need for the world and the world caught up connection:
because we understand that only the independent and yet so far as
necessary and involuntary acts of intelligence that it is their original
settlements and factual facts on which the possibility of any idea
based on an existence of things.

The freedom is returned to us by the same the absolute, sinking the dogmatic substantiality of
the world. -

Let us now before we investigate further develop this basic idea in Fichte, back to Kleist and his
letter back. It is known that Kleist to Wilhelmine the To illustrate the basic teachings of transcendental
idealism, a comparison of popular and sample runs out. "If everyone had green eyes instead
of glasses, they would Must judge the objects which they see by ~ ~ are green - and never
would they can decide, whether their eyes show them things as they are, or whether it is not
something hinzutut to them what is not theirs, but to the eye. So it is with the understanding.
" If this comparison was the sum of the doctrines of the Critique of Pure Reason pull " it
is very strange, because even Kant had always warned anew against what he the "subjectivity" of
the forms of intuition and the categories, called by "quite inadequate Examples "that are the territory
of the subjectivity of sense qualities taken, and evidence to try to clarify. For him, as
a critic of knowledge, here is an absolutely not to cover basic methodological difference, because
of color and sound can be as He stressed the point and strongly a priori synthetic judgments no, no
truly universal and gain the necessary knowledge and truths. In particular is the perception of space
For Kant, the sensation of color, not on the same line, but remains true to its character of
truth after which it entirely different. In contrast, however, was the relationship as it is now at Spruce
represented. Although the comparison with seeing through green glasses with him we will not to make
believe, for here it is, as Kleist himself in a later letter explained to Wilhelmina, a separate
ingredient Kleist, which he only temporarily to the popular Clarity of thought used. "I am" - he
writes - "only the eye served in my letter as an explanatory ~ ~ example, because I'll even
dry language of philosophy could not perform. "But what now into the language of spruce presented
really was: that was not only the doctrine of the subjectivity of colors and Sounds, but by the
same absolute and exclusive subjectivity of all our Perceptive and intuitive world. "In all
perception" - as taught in the "determination of man "of Fichte's" spirit, "the" I "with which he holds
his dialogue -" take you initially only yourself and your own condition true, and what is
not in this perception is is not perceived.

I would never tire of it in all expressions To repeat, if I had to worry that you do not understand
you yet ineradicable impressed to have. - Can you say: I am aware of external objects? - Not
at all - Replied that I - if I just take, for the look and feel, etc., by which I mean Covers
things is not the consciousness itself, but only that of which I am first and most immediate'm
aware of.
  "Yes: your mother's a very old woman; and for all we
know Bencomb may not be as successful with very old people.  As you say, my dear, it's always
one thing after another; and in another ten or fifteen years I suppose I shall have the pleasing
duty of looking about for a new doctor.  It's always better to make such a change before it's
absolutely necessary." And having arrived at this Spartan decision Mr. Welland firmly took
up his fork.

"But all the while," Mrs. Welland began again, as she rose from the luncheon-table, and led
the way into the wilderness of purple satin and malachite known as the back drawing-room, "I
don't see how Ellen's to be got here tomorrow evening; and I do like to have things settled
for at least twenty-four hours ahead."

Archer turned from the fascinated contemplation of a small painting representing two Cardinals
carousing, in an octagonal ebony frame set with medallions of onyx.

"Shall I fetch her?" he proposed.  "I can easily get away from the office in time to meet the
brougham at the ferry, if May will send it there."  His heart was beating excitedly as he spoke.

Mrs. Welland heaved a sigh of gratitude, and May, who had moved away to the window, turned
to shed on him a beam of approval.  "So you see, Mamma, everything WILL be settled twenty-four
hours in advance," she said, stooping over to kiss her mother's troubled forehead.

May's brougham awaited her at the door, and she was to drive Archer to Union Square, where
he could pick up a Broadway car to carry him to the office.  As she settled herself in her
corner she said:  "I didn't want to worry Mamma by raising fresh obstacles; but how can you
meet Ellen tomorrow, and bring her back to New York, when you're going to Washington?"

"Oh, I'm not going," Archer answered.

"Not going?  Why, what's happened?"  Her voice was as clear as a bell, and full of wifely solicitude.

"The case is off--postponed."

"Postponed?  How odd!  I saw a note this morning from Mr. Letterblair to Mamma saying that
he was going to Washington tomorrow for the big patent case that he was to argue before the
Supreme Court.  You said it was a patent case, didn't you?"

"Well--that's it: the whole office can't go.  Letterblair decided to go this morning."

"Then it's NOT postponed?" she continued, with an insistence so unlike her that he felt the
blood rising to his face, as if he were blushing for her unwonted lapse from all the traditional
delicacies.

"No: but my going is," he answered, cursing the unnecessary explanations that he had given
when he had announced his intention of going to Washington, and wondering where he had read
that clever liars give details, but that the cleverest do not.  It did not hurt him half as
much to tell May an untruth as to see her trying to pretend that she had not detected him.

"I'm not going till later on: luckily for the convenience of your family," he continued, taking
base refuge in sarcasm.  As he spoke he felt that she was looking at him, and he turned his
eyes to hers in order not to appear to be avoiding them.  Their glances met for a second, and
perhaps let them into each other's meanings more deeply than either cared to go.

"Yes; it IS awfully convenient," May brightly agreed, "that you should be able to meet Ellen
after all; you saw how much Mamma appreciated your offering to do it."

"Oh, I'm delighted to do it."  The carriage stopped, and as he jumped out she leaned to him
and laid her hand on his.  "Good-bye, dearest," she said, her eyes so blue that he wondered
afterward if they had shone on him through tears.

He turned away and hurried across Union Square, repeating to himself, in a sort of inward chant:
"It's all of two hours from Jersey City to old Catherine's.  It's all of two hours--and it
may be more."

XXIX.

His wife's dark blue brougham (with the wedding varnish still on it) met Archer at the ferry,
and conveyed him luxuriously to the Pennsylvania terminus in Jersey City.

It was a sombre snowy afternoon, and the gas-lamps were lit in the big reverberating station.
As he paced the platform, waiting for the Washington express, he remembered that there were
people who thought there would one day be a tunnel under the Hudson through which the trains
of the Pennsylvania railway would run straight into New York. They were of the brotherhood
of visionaries who likewise predicted the building of ships that would cross the Atlantic in
five days, the invention of a flying machine, lighting by electricity, telephonic communication
without wires, and other Arabian Night marvels.

"I don't care which of their visions comes true," Archer mused, "as long as the tunnel isn't
built yet."  In his senseless school-boy happiness he pictured Madame Olenska's descent from
the train, his discovery of her a long way off, among the throngs of meaningless faces, her
clinging to his arm as he guided her to the carriage, their slow approach to the wharf among
slipping horses, laden carts, vociferating teamsters, and then the startling quiet of the ferry-boat,
where they would sit side by side under the snow, in the motionless carriage, while the earth
seemed to glide away under them, rolling to the other side of the sun.  It was incredible,
the number of things he had to say to her, and in what eloquent order they were forming themselves
on his lips ...

The clanging and groaning of the train came nearer, and it staggered slowly into the station
like a prey-laden monster into its lair. Archer pushed forward, elbowing through the crowd,
and staring blindly into window after window of the high-hung carriages.  And then, suddenly,
he saw Madame Olenska's pale and surprised face close at hand, and had again the mortified
sensation of having forgotten what she looked like.

They reached each other, their hands met, and he drew her arm through his.  "This way--I have
the carriage," he said.

After that it all happened as he had dreamed.  He helped her into the brougham with her bags,
and had afterward the vague recollection of having properly reassured her about her grandmother
and given her a summary of the Beaufort situation (he was struck by the softness of her:  "Poor
Regina!").  Meanwhile the carriage had worked its way out of the coil about the station, and
they were crawling down the slippery incline to the wharf, menaced by swaying coal-carts, bewildered
horses, dishevelled express-wagons, and an empty hearse--ah, that hearse!  She shut her eyes
as it passed, and clutched at Archer's hand.

"If only it doesn't mean--poor Granny!"

"Oh, no, no--she's much better--she's all right, really.  There--we've passed it!" he exclaimed,
as if that made all the difference.  Her hand remained in his, and as the carriage lurched
across the gang-plank onto the ferry he bent over, unbuttoned her tight brown glove, and kissed
her palm as if he had kissed a relic.  She disengaged herself with a faint smile, and he said:
"You didn't expect me today?"

"Oh, no."

"I meant to go to Washington to see you.  I'd made all my arrangements--I very nearly crossed
you in the train."

"Oh--" she exclaimed, as if terrified by the narrowness of their escape.

"Do you know--I hardly remembered you?"

"Hardly remembered me?"

"I mean: how shall I explain?  I--it's always so.  EACH TIME YOU HAPPEN TO ME ALL OVER AGAIN."

"Oh, yes: I know!  I know!"

"Does it--do I too: to you?" he insisted.

She nodded, looking out of the window.

"Ellen--Ellen--Ellen!"

She made no answer, and he sat in silence, watching her profile grow indistinct against the
snow-streaked dusk beyond the window.  What had she been doing in all those four long months,
he wondered?  How little they knew of each other, after all!  The precious moments were slipping
away, but he had forgotten everything that he had meant to say to her and could only helplessly
brood on the mystery of their remoteness and their proximity, which seemed to be symbolised
by the fact of their sitting so close to each other, and yet being unable to see each other's
faces.

"What a pretty carriage!  Is it May's?" she asked, suddenly turning her face from the window.

"Yes."

"It was May who sent you to fetch me, then?  How kind of her!"

He made no answer for a moment; then he said explosively:  "Your husband's secretary came to
see me the day after we met in Boston."

In his brief letter to her he had made no allusion to M. Riviere's visit, and his intention
had been to bury the incident in his bosom. But her reminder that they were in his wife's carriage
provoked him to an impulse of retaliation.  He would see if she liked his reference to Riviere
any better than he liked hers to May!  As on certain other occasions when he had expected to
shake her out of her usual composure, she betrayed no sign of surprise: and at once he concluded:
"He writes to her, then."

"M. Riviere went to see you?"

"Yes: didn't you know?"

"No," she answered simply.

"And you're not surprised?"

She hesitated.  "Why should I be?  He told me in Boston that he knew you; that he'd met you
in England I think."

"Ellen--I must ask you one thing."

"Yes."

"I wanted to ask it after I saw him, but I couldn't put it in a letter. It was Riviere who
helped you to get away--when you left your husband?"

His heart was beating suffocatingly.  Would she meet this question with the same composure?

"Yes: I owe him a great debt," she answered, without the least tremor in her quiet voice.

Her tone was so natural, so almost indifferent, that Archer's turmoil subsided.  Once more
she had managed, by her sheer simplicity, to make him feel stupidly conventional just when
he thought he was flinging convention to the winds.

"I think you're the most honest woman I ever met!" he exclaimed.

"Oh, no--but probably one of the least fussy," she answered, a smile in her voice.

"Call it what you like: you look at things as they are."

"Ah--I've had to.  I've had to look at the Gorgon."

"Well--it hasn't blinded you!  You've seen that she's just an old bogey like all the others."

"She doesn't blind one; but she dries up one's tears."

The answer checked the pleading on Archer's lips: it seemed to come from depths of experience
beyond his reach.  The slow advance of the ferry-boat had ceased, and her bows bumped against
the piles of the slip with a violence that made the brougham stagger, and flung Archer and
Madame Olenska against each other.  The young man, trembling, felt the pressure of her shoulder,
and passed his arm about her.

"If you're not blind, then, you must see that this can't last."

"What can't?"

"Our being together--and not together."

"No.  You ought not to have come today," she said in an altered voice; and suddenly she turned,
flung her arms about him and pressed her lips to his.  At the same moment the carriage began
to move, and a gas-lamp at the head of the slip flashed its light into the window.  She drew
away, and they sat silent and motionless while the brougham struggled through the congestion
of carriages about the ferry-landing.  As they gained the street Archer began to speak hurriedly.

"Don't be afraid of me: you needn't squeeze yourself back into your corner like that.  A stolen
kiss isn't what I want.  Look: I'm not even trying to touch the sleeve of your jacket.  Don't
suppose that I don't understand your reasons for not wanting to let this feeling between us
dwindle into an ordinary hole-and-corner love-affair.  I couldn't have spoken like this yesterday,
because when we've been apart, and I'm looking forward to seeing you, every thought is burnt
up in a great flame.  But then you come; and you're so much more than I remembered, and what
I want of you is so much more than an hour or two every now and then, with wastes of thirsty
waiting between, that I can sit perfectly still beside you, like this, with that other vision
in my mind, just quietly trusting to it to come true."

For a moment she made no reply; then she asked, hardly above a whisper: "What do you mean by
trusting to it to come true?"

"Why--you know it will, don't you?"

"Your vision of you and me together?"  She burst into a sudden hard laugh.  "You choose your
place well to put it to me!"

"Do you mean because we're in my wife's brougham?  Shall we get out and walk, then?  I don't
suppose you mind a little snow?"

She laughed again, more gently.  "No; I shan't get out and walk, because my business is to
get to Granny's as quickly as I can.  And you'll sit beside me, and we'll look, not at visions,
but at realities."

"I don't know what you mean by realities.  The only reality to me is this."

She met the words with a long silence, during which the carriage rolled down an obscure side-street
and then turned into the searching illumination of Fifth Avenue.

"Is it your idea, then, that I should live with you as your mistress--since I can't be your
wife?" she asked.

The crudeness of the question startled him: the word was one that women of his class fought
shy of, even when their talk flitted closest about the topic.  He noticed that Madame Olenska
pronounced it as if it had a recognised place in her vocabulary, and he wondered if it had
been used familiarly in her presence in the horrible life she had fled from.  Her question
pulled him up with a jerk, and he floundered.

"I want--I want somehow to get away with you into a world where words like that--categories
like that--won't exist.  Where we shall be simply two human beings who love each other, who
are the whole of life to each other; and nothing else on earth will matter."

She drew a deep sigh that ended in another laugh.  "Oh, my dear--where is that country?  Have
you ever been there?" she asked; and as he remained sullenly dumb she went on:  "I know so
many who've tried to find it; and, believe me, they all got out by mistake at wayside stations:
at places like Boulogne, or Pisa, or Monte Carlo--and it wasn't at all different from the old
world they'd left, but only rather smaller and dingier and more promiscuous."

He had never heard her speak in such a tone, and he remembered the phrase she had used a little
while before.

"Yes, the Gorgon HAS dried your tears," he said.

"Well, she opened my eyes too; it's a delusion to say that she blinds people.  What she does
is just the contrary--she fastens their eyelids open, so that they're never again in the blessed
darkness.  Isn't there a Chinese torture like that?  There ought to be.  Ah, believe me, it's
a miserable little country!"

The carriage had crossed Forty-second Street: May's sturdy brougham-horse was carrying them
northward as if he had been a Kentucky trotter.  Archer choked with the sense of wasted minutes
and vain words.

"Then what, exactly, is your plan for us?" he asked.

"For US?  But there's no US in that sense!  We're near each other only if we stay far from
each other.  Then we can be ourselves.  Otherwise we're only Newland Archer, the husband of
Ellen Olenska's cousin, and Ellen Olenska, the cousin of Newland Archer's wife, trying to be
happy behind the backs of the people who trust them."

"Ah, I'm beyond that," he groaned.

"No, you're not!  You've never been beyond.  And I have," she said, in a strange voice, "and
I know what it looks like there."

He sat silent, dazed with inarticulate pain.  Then he groped in the darkness of the carriage
for the little bell that signalled orders to the coachman.  He remembered that May rang twice
when she wished to stop.  He pressed the bell, and the carriage drew up beside the curbstone.

"Why are we stopping?  This is not Granny's," Madame Olenska exclaimed.

"No: I shall get out here," he stammered, opening the door and jumping to the pavement.  By
the light of a street-lamp he saw her startled face, and the instinctive motion she made to
detain him.  He closed the door, and leaned for a moment in the window.

"You're right: I ought not to have come today," he said, lowering his voice so that the coachman
should not hear.  She bent forward, and seemed about to speak; but he had already called out
the order to drive on, and the carriage rolled away while he stood on the corner.  The snow
was over, and a tingling wind had sprung up, that lashed his face as he stood gazing.  Suddenly
he felt something stiff and cold on his lashes, and perceived that he had been crying, and
that the wind had frozen his tears.

He thrust his hands in his pockets, and walked at a sharp pace down Fifth Avenue to his own house.

XXX.

That evening when Archer came down before dinner he found the drawing-room empty.

He and May were dining alone, all the family engagements having been postponed since Mrs. Manson
Mingott's illness; and as May was the more punctual of the two he was surprised that she had
not preceded him.  He knew that she was at home, for while he dressed he had heard her moving
about in her room; and he wondered what had delayed her.

He had fallen into the way of dwelling on such conjectures as a means of tying his thoughts
fast to reality.  Sometimes he felt as if he had found the clue to his father-in-law's absorption
in trifles; perhaps even Mr. Welland, long ago, had had escapes and visions, and had conjured
up all the hosts of domesticity to defend himself against them.

When May appeared he thought she looked tired.  She had put on the low-necked and tightly-laced
dinner-dress which the Mingott ceremonial exacted on the most informal occasions, and had built
her fair hair into its usual accumulated coils; and her face, in contrast, was wan and almost
faded.  But she shone on him with her usual tenderness, and her eyes had kept the blue dazzle
of the day before.

"What became of you, dear?" she asked.  "I was waiting at Granny's, and Ellen came alone, and
said she had dropped you on the way because you had to rush off on business.  There's nothing
wrong?"

"Only some letters I'd forgotten, and wanted to get off before dinner."

"Ah--" she said; and a moment afterward:  "I'm sorry you didn't come to Granny's--unless the
letters were urgent."

"They were," he rejoined, surprised at her insistence.  "Besides, I don't see why I should
have gone to your grandmother's.  I didn't know you were there."

She turned and moved to the looking-glass above the mantel-piece.  As she stood there, lifting
her long arm to fasten a puff that had slipped from its place in her intricate hair, Archer
was struck by something languid and inelastic in her attitude, and wondered if the deadly monotony
of their lives had laid its weight on her also.  Then he remembered that, as he had left the
house that morning, she had called over the stairs that she would meet him at her grandmother's
so that they might drive home together.  He had called back a cheery "Yes!" and then, absorbed
in other visions, had forgotten his promise.  Now he was smitten with compunction, yet irritated
that so trifling an omission should be stored up against him after nearly two years of marriage.
He was weary of living in a perpetual tepid honeymoon, without the temperature of passion yet
with all its exactions.  If May had spoken out her grievances (he suspected her of many) he
might have laughed them away; but she was trained to conceal imaginary wounds under a Spartan
smile.

To disguise his own annoyance he asked how her grandmother was, and she answered that Mrs.
Mingott was still improving, but had been rather disturbed by the last news about the Beauforts.

"What news?"

"It seems they're going to stay in New York.  I believe he's going into an insurance business,
or something.  They're looking about for a small house."

The preposterousness of the case was beyond discussion, and they went in to dinner.  During
dinner their talk moved in its usual limited circle; but Archer noticed that his wife made
no allusion to Madame Olenska, nor to old Catherine's reception of her.  He was thankful for
the fact, yet felt it to be vaguely ominous.

They went up to the library for coffee, and Archer lit a cigar and took down a volume of Michelet.
He had taken to history in the evenings since May had shown a tendency to ask him to read aloud
whenever she saw him with a volume of poetry: not that he disliked the sound of his own voice,
but because he could always foresee her comments on what he read.  In the days of their engagement
she had simply (as he now perceived) echoed what he told her; but since he had ceased to provide
her with opinions she had begun to hazard her own, with results destructive to his enjoyment
of the works commented on.

Seeing that he had chosen history she fetched her workbasket, drew up an arm-chair to the green-shaded
student lamp, and uncovered a cushion she was embroidering for his sofa.  She was not a clever
needle-woman; her large capable hands were made for riding, rowing and open-air activities;
but since other wives embroidered cushions for their husbands she did not wish to omit this
last link in her devotion.

She was so placed that Archer, by merely raising his eyes, could see her bent above her work-frame,
her ruffled elbow-sleeves slipping back from her firm round arms, the betrothal sapphire shining
on her left hand above her broad gold wedding-ring, and the right hand slowly and laboriously
stabbing the canvas.  As she sat thus, the lamplight full on her clear brow, he said to himself
with a secret dismay that he would always know the thoughts behind it, that never, in all the
years to come, would she surprise him by an unexpected mood, by a new idea, a weakness, a cruelty
or an emotion.  She had spent her poetry and romance on their short courting: the function
was exhausted because the need was past.  Now she was simply ripening into a copy of her mother,
and mysteriously, by the very process, trying to turn him into a Mr. Welland.  He laid down
his book and stood up impatiently; and at once she raised her head.

"What's the matter?"

"The room is stifling: I want a little air."

He had insisted that the library curtains should draw backward and forward on a rod, so that
they might be closed in the evening, instead of remaining nailed to a gilt cornice, and immovably
looped up over layers of lace, as in the drawing-room; and he pulled them back and pushed up
the sash, leaning out into the icy night.  The mere fact of not looking at May, seated beside
his table, under his lamp, the fact of seeing other houses, roofs, chimneys, of getting the
sense of other lives outside his own, other cities beyond New York, and a whole world beyond
his world, cleared his brain and made it easier to breathe.

After he had leaned out into the darkness for a few minutes he heard her say:  "Newland!  Do
shut the window.  You'll catch your death."

He pulled the sash down and turned back.  "Catch my death!" he echoed; and he felt like adding:
"But I've caught it already.  I AM dead--I've been dead for months and months."

And suddenly the play of the word flashed up a wild suggestion.  What if it were SHE who was
dead!  If she were going to die--to die soon--and leave him free!  The sensation of standing
there, in that warm familiar room, and looking at her, and wishing her dead, was so strange,
so fascinating and overmastering, that its enormity did not immediately strike him.  He simply
felt that chance had given him a new possibility to which his sick soul might cling.  Yes,
May might die--people did: young people, healthy people like herself: she might die, and set
him suddenly free.

She glanced up, and he saw by her widening eyes that there must be something strange in his own.

"Newland!  Are you ill?"

He shook his head and turned toward his arm-chair.  She bent over her work-frame, and as he
passed he laid his hand on her hair.  "Poor May!" he said.

"Poor?  Why poor?" she echoed with a strained laugh.

"Because I shall never be able to open a window without worrying you," he rejoined, laughing also.

For a moment she was silent; then she said very low, her head bowed over her work:  "I shall
never worry if you're happy."

"Ah, my dear; and I shall never be happy unless I can open the windows!"

"In THIS weather?" she remonstrated; and with a sigh he buried his head in his book.

Six or seven days passed.  Archer heard nothing from Madame Olenska, and became aware that
her name would not be mentioned in his presence by any member of the family.  He did not try
to see her; to do so while she was at old Catherine's guarded bedside would have been almost
impossible.  In the uncertainty of the situation he let himself drift, conscious, somewhere
below the surface of his thoughts, of a resolve which had come to him when he had leaned out
from his library window into the icy night.  The strength of that resolve made it easy to wait
and make no sign.

Then one day May told him that Mrs. Manson Mingott had asked to see him.  There was nothing
surprising in the request, for the old lady was steadily recovering, and she had always openly
declared that she preferred Archer to any of her other grandsons-in-law.  May gave the message
with evident pleasure: she was proud of old Catherine's appreciation of her husband.

There was a moment's pause, and then Archer felt it incumbent on him to say:  "All right. 
Shall we go together this afternoon?"

His wife's face brightened, but she instantly answered: "Oh, you'd much better go alone.  It
bores Granny to see the same people too often."

Archer's heart was beating violently when he rang old Mrs. Mingott's bell.  He had wanted above
all things to go alone, for he felt sure the visit would give him the chance of saying a word
in private to the Countess Olenska.  He had determined to wait till the chance presented itself
naturally; and here it was, and here he was on the doorstep. Behind the door, behind the curtains
of the yellow damask room next to the hall, she was surely awaiting him; in another moment
he should see her, and be able to speak to her before she led him to the sick-room.

He wanted only to put one question: after that his course would be clear.  What he wished to
ask was simply the date of her return to Washington; and that question she could hardly refuse
to answer.

But in the yellow sitting-room it was the mulatto maid who waited.  Her white teeth shining
like a keyboard, she pushed back the sliding doors and ushered him into old Catherine's presence.

The old woman sat in a vast throne-like arm-chair near her bed.  Beside her was a mahogany
stand bearing a cast bronze lamp with an engraved globe, over which a green paper shade had
been balanced.  There was not a book or a newspaper in reach, nor any evidence of feminine
employment: conversation had always been Mrs. Mingott's sole pursuit, and she would have scorned
to feign an interest in fancywork.

Archer saw no trace of the slight distortion left by her stroke.  She merely looked paler,
with darker shadows in the folds and recesses of her obesity; and, in the fluted mob-cap tied
by a starched bow between her first two chins, and the muslin kerchief crossed over her billowing
purple dressing-gown, she seemed like some shrewd and kindly ancestress of her own who might
have yielded too freely to the pleasures of the table.

She held out one of the little hands that nestled in a hollow of her huge lap like pet animals,
and called to the maid:  "Don't let in any one else.  If my daughters call, say I'm asleep."

The maid disappeared, and the old lady turned to her grandson.

"My dear, am I perfectly hideous?" she asked gaily, launching out one hand in search of the
folds of muslin on her inaccessible bosom.  "My daughters tell me it doesn't matter at my age--as
if hideousness didn't matter all the more the harder it gets to conceal!"

"My dear, you're handsomer than ever!" Archer rejoined in the same tone; and she threw back
her head and laughed.

"Ah, but not as handsome as Ellen!" she jerked out, twinkling at him maliciously; and before
he could answer she added:  "Was she so awfully handsome the day you drove her up from the ferry?"

He laughed, and she continued:  "Was it because you told her so that she had to put you out
on the way?  In my youth young men didn't desert pretty women unless they were made to!"  She
gave another chuckle, and interrupted it to say almost querulously:  "It's a pity she didn't
marry you; I always told her so.  It would have spared me all this worry.  But who ever thought
of sparing their grandmother worry?"

Archer wondered if her illness had blurred her faculties; but suddenly she broke out:  "Well,
it's settled, anyhow: she's going to stay with me, whatever the rest of the family say!  She
hadn't been here five minutes before I'd have gone down on my knees to keep her--if only, for
the last twenty years, I'd been able to see where the floor was!"

Archer listened in silence, and she went on:  "They'd talked me over, as no doubt you know:
persuaded me, Lovell, and Letterblair, and Augusta Welland, and all the rest of them, that
I must hold out and cut off her allowance, till she was made to see that it was her duty to
go back to Olenski.  They thought they'd convinced me when the secretary, or whatever he was,
came out with the last proposals: handsome proposals I confess they were.  After all, marriage
is marriage, and money's money--both useful things in their way ... and I didn't know what
to answer--"  She broke off and drew a long breath, as if speaking had become an effort.  "But
the minute I laid eyes on her, I said: 'You sweet bird, you!  Shut you up in that cage again?
Never!'  And now it's settled that she's to stay here and nurse her Granny as long as there's
a Granny to nurse.  It's not a gay prospect, but she doesn't mind; and of course I've told
Letterblair that she's to be given her proper allowance."

The young man heard her with veins aglow; but in his confusion of mind he hardly knew whether
her news brought joy or pain.  He had so definitely decided on the course he meant to pursue
that for the moment he could not readjust his thoughts.  But gradually there stole over him
the delicious sense of difficulties deferred and opportunities miraculously provided.  If Ellen
had consented to come and live with her grandmother it must surely be because she had recognised
the impossibility of giving him up.  This was her answer to his final appeal of the other day:
if she would not take the extreme step he had urged, she had at last yielded to half-measures.
He sank back into the thought with the involuntary relief of a man who has been ready to risk
everything, and suddenly tastes the dangerous sweetness of security.

"She couldn't have gone back--it was impossible!" he exclaimed.

"Ah, my dear, I always knew you were on her side; and that's why I sent for you today, and
why I said to your pretty wife, when she proposed to come with you: 'No, my dear, I'm pining
to see Newland, and I don't want anybody to share our transports.'  For you see, my dear--"
she drew her head back as far as its tethering chins permitted, and looked him full in the
eyes--"you see, we shall have a fight yet.  The family don't want her here, and they'll say
it's because I've been ill, because I'm a weak old woman, that she's persuaded me.  I'm not
well enough yet to fight them one by one, and you've got to do it for me."

"I?" he stammered.

"You.  Why not?" she jerked back at him, her round eyes suddenly as sharp as pen-knives.  Her
hand fluttered from its chair-arm and lit on his with a clutch of little pale nails like bird-claws.
"Why not?" she searchingly repeated.

Archer, under the exposure of her gaze, had recovered his self-possession.

"Oh, I don't count--I'm too insignificant."

"Well, you're Letterblair's partner, ain't you?  You've got to get at them through Letterblair.
Unless you've got a reason," she insisted.

"Oh, my dear, I back you to hold your own against them all without my help; but you shall have
it if you need it," he reassured her.

"Then we're safe!" she sighed; and smiling on him with all her ancient cunning she added, as
she settled her head among the cushions:  "I always knew you'd back us up, because they never
quote you when they talk about its being her duty to go home."

He winced a little at her terrifying perspicacity, and longed to ask: "And May--do they quote
her?"  But he judged it safer to turn the question.

"And Madame Olenska?  When am I to see her?" he said.

The old lady chuckled, crumpled her lids, and went through the pantomime of archness.  "Not
today.  One at a time, please.  Madame Olenska's gone out."

He flushed with disappointment, and she went on: "She's gone out, my child: gone in my carriage
to see Regina Beaufort."

She paused for this announcement to produce its effect.  "That's what she's reduced me to already.
The day after she got here she put on her best bonnet, and told me, as cool as a cucumber,
that she was going to call on Regina Beaufort.  'I don't know her; who is she?' says I. 'She's
your grand-niece, and a most unhappy woman,' she says.  'She's the wife of a scoundrel,' I
answered.  'Well,' she says, 'and so am I, and yet all my family want me to go back to him.'
Well, that floored me, and I let her go; and finally one day she said it was raining too hard
to go out on foot, and she wanted me to lend her my carriage. 'What for?' I asked her; and
she said: 'To go and see cousin Regina'--COUSIN!  Now, my dear, I looked out of the window,
and saw it wasn't raining a drop; but I understood her, and I let her have the carriage....
After all, Regina's a brave woman, and so is she; and I've always liked courage above everything."

Archer bent down and pressed his lips on the little hand that still lay on his.

"Eh--eh--eh!  Whose hand did you think you were kissing, young man--your wife's, I hope?" the
old lady snapped out with her mocking cackle; and as he rose to go she called out after him:
"Give her her Granny's love; but you'd better not say anything about our talk."

XXXI.

Archer had been stunned by old Catherine's news.  It was only natural that Madame Olenska should
have hastened from Washington in response to her grandmother's summons; but that she should
have decided to remain under her roof--especially now that Mrs. Mingott had almost regained
her health--was less easy to explain.

Archer was sure that Madame Olenska's decision had not been influenced by the change in her
financial situation.  He knew the exact figure of the small income which her husband had allowed
her at their separation. Without the addition of her grandmother's allowance it was hardly
enough to live on, in any sense known to the Mingott vocabulary; and now that Medora Manson,
who shared her life, had been ruined, such a pittance would barely keep the two women clothed
and fed.  Yet Archer was convinced that Madame Olenska had not accepted her grandmother's offer
from interested motives.

She had the heedless generosity and the spasmodic extravagance of persons used to large fortunes,
and indifferent to money; but she could go without many things which her relations considered
indispensable, and Mrs. Lovell Mingott and Mrs. Welland had often been heard to deplore that
any one who had enjoyed the cosmopolitan luxuries of Count Olenski's establishments should
care so little about "how things were done."  Moreover, as Archer knew, several months had
passed since her allowance had been cut off; yet in the interval she had made no effort to
regain her grandmother's favour.  Therefore if she had changed her course it must be for a
different reason.

He did not have far to seek for that reason.  On the way from the ferry she had told him that
he and she must remain apart; but she had said it with her head on his breast.  He knew that
there was no calculated coquetry in her words; she was fighting her fate as he had fought his,
and clinging desperately to her resolve that they should not break faith with the people who
trusted them.  But during the ten days which had elapsed since her return to New York she had
perhaps guessed from his silence, and from the fact of his making no attempt to see her, that
he was meditating a decisive step, a step from which there was no turning back.  At the thought,
a sudden fear of her own weakness might have seized her, and she might have felt that, after
all, it was better to accept the compromise usual in such cases, and follow the line of least
resistance.

An hour earlier, when he had rung Mrs. Mingott's bell, Archer had fancied that his path was
clear before him.  He had meant to have a word alone with Madame Olenska, and failing that,
to learn from her grandmother on what day, and by which train, she was returning to Washington.
In that train he intended to join her, and travel with her to Washington, or as much farther
as she was willing to go.  His own fancy inclined to Japan.  At any rate she would understand
at once that, wherever she went, he was going.  He meant to leave a note for May that should
cut off any other alternative.

He had fancied himself not only nerved for this plunge but eager to take it; yet his first
feeling on hearing that the course of events was changed had been one of relief.  Now, however,
as he walked home from Mrs. Mingott's, he was conscious of a growing distaste for what lay
before him.  There was nothing unknown or unfamiliar in the path he was presumably to tread;
but when he had trodden it before it was as a free man, who was accountable to no one for his
actions, and could lend himself with an amused detachment to the game of precautions and prevarications,
concealments and compliances, that the part required. This procedure was called "protecting
a woman's honour"; and the best fiction, combined with the after-dinner talk of his elders,
had long since initiated him into every detail of its code.

Now he saw the matter in a new light, and his part in it seemed singularly diminished.  It
was, in fact, that which, with a secret fatuity, he had watched Mrs. Thorley Rushworth play
toward a fond and unperceiving husband: a smiling, bantering, humouring, watchful and incessant
lie.  A lie by day, a lie by night, a lie in every touch and every look; a lie in every caress
and every quarrel; a lie in every word and in every silence.

It was easier, and less dastardly on the whole, for a wife to play such a part toward her husband.
A woman's standard of truthfulness was tacitly held to be lower: she was the subject creature,
and versed in the arts of the enslaved.  Then she could always plead moods and nerves, and
the right not to be held too strictly to account; and even in the most strait-laced societies
the laugh was always against the husband.

But in Archer's little world no one laughed at a wife deceived, and a certain measure of contempt
was attached to men who continued their philandering after marriage.  In the rotation of crops
there was a recognised season for wild oats; but they were not to be sown more than once.

Archer had always shared this view: in his heart he thought Lefferts despicable.  But to love
Ellen Olenska was not to become a man like Lefferts: for the first time Archer found himself
face to face with the dread argument of the individual case.  Ellen Olenska was like no other
woman, he was like no other man: their situation, therefore, resembled no one else's, and they
were answerable to no tribunal but that of their own judgment.

Yes, but in ten minutes more he would be mounting his own doorstep; and there were May, and
habit, and honour, and all the old decencies that he and his people had always believed in ...

At his corner he hesitated, and then walked on down Fifth Avenue.

Ahead of him, in the winter night, loomed a big unlit house.  As he drew near he thought how
often he had seen it blazing with lights, its steps awninged and carpeted, and carriages waiting
in double line to draw up at the curbstone.  It was in the conservatory that stretched its
dead-black bulk down the side street that he had taken his first kiss from May; it was under
the myriad candles of the ball-room that he had seen her appear, tall and silver-shining as
a young Diana.

Now the house was as dark as the grave, except for a faint flare of gas in the basement, and
a light in one upstairs room where the blind had not been lowered.  As Archer reached the corner
he saw that the carriage standing at the door was Mrs. Manson Mingott's.  What an opportunity
for Sillerton Jackson, if he should chance to pass!  Archer had been greatly moved by old Catherine's
account of Madame Olenska's attitude toward Mrs. Beaufort; it made the righteous reprobation
of New York seem like a passing by on the other side.  But he knew well enough what construction
the clubs and drawing-rooms would put on Ellen Olenska's visits to her cousin.

He paused and looked up at the lighted window.  No doubt the two women were sitting together
in that room: Beaufort had probably sought consolation elsewhere.  There were even rumours
that he had left New York with Fanny Ring; but Mrs. Beaufort's attitude made the report seem
improbable.

Archer had the nocturnal perspective of Fifth Avenue almost to himself. At that hour most people
were indoors, dressing for dinner; and he was secretly glad that Ellen's exit was likely to
be unobserved.  As the thought passed through his mind the door opened, and she came out. Behind
her was a faint light, such as might have been carried down the stairs to show her the way.
She turned to say a word to some one; then the door closed, and she came down the steps.

"Ellen," he said in a low voice, as she reached the pavement.

She stopped with a slight start, and just then he saw two young men of fashionable cut approaching.
There was a familiar air about their overcoats and the way their smart silk mufflers were folded
over their white ties; and he wondered how youths of their quality happened to be dining out
so early.  Then he remembered that the Reggie Chiverses, whose house was a few doors above,
were taking a large party that evening to see Adelaide Neilson in Romeo and Juliet, and guessed
that the two were of the number.  They passed under a lamp, and he recognised Lawrence Lefferts
and a young Chivers.

A mean desire not to have Madame Olenska seen at the Beauforts' door vanished as he felt the
penetrating warmth of her hand.

"I shall see you now--we shall be together," he broke out, hardly knowing what he said.

"Ah," she answered, "Granny has told you?"

While he watched her he was aware that Lefferts and Chivers, on reaching the farther side of
the street corner, had discreetly struck away across Fifth Avenue.  It was the kind of masculine
solidarity that he himself often practised; now he sickened at their connivance.  Did she really
imagine that he and she could live like this?  And if not, what else did she imagine?

"Tomorrow I must see you--somewhere where we can be alone," he said, in a voice that sounded
almost angry to his own ears.

She wavered, and moved toward the carriage.

"But I shall be at Granny's--for the present that is," she added, as if conscious that her
change of plans required some explanation.

"Somewhere where we can be alone," he insisted.

She gave a faint laugh that grated on him.

"In New York?  But there are no churches ... no monuments."

"There's the Art Museum--in the Park," he explained, as she looked puzzled.  "At half-past
two.  I shall be at the door ..."

She turned away without answering and got quickly into the carriage. As it drove off she leaned
forward, and he thought she waved her hand in the obscurity.  He stared after her in a turmoil
of contradictory feelings.  It seemed to him that he had been speaking not to the woman he
loved but to another, a woman he was indebted to for pleasures already wearied of: it was hateful
to find himself the prisoner of this hackneyed vocabulary.

"She'll come!" he said to himself, almost contemptuously.

Avoiding the popular "Wolfe collection," whose anecdotic canvases filled one of the main galleries
of the queer wilderness of cast-iron and encaustic tiles known as the Metropolitan Museum,
they had wandered down a passage to the room where the "Cesnola antiquities" mouldered in unvisited
loneliness.

They had this melancholy retreat to themselves, and seated on the divan enclosing the central
steam-radiator, they were staring silently at the glass cabinets mounted in ebonised wood which
contained the recovered fragments of Ilium.

"It's odd," Madame Olenska said, "I never came here before."

"Ah, well--.  Some day, I suppose, it will be a great Museum."

"Yes," she assented absently.

She stood up and wandered across the room.  Archer, remaining seated, watched the light movements
of her figure, so girlish even under its heavy furs, the cleverly planted heron wing in her
fur cap, and the way a dark curl lay like a flattened vine spiral on each cheek above the ear.
His mind, as always when they first met, was wholly absorbed in the delicious details that
made her herself and no other.  Presently he rose and approached the case before which she
stood.  Its glass shelves were crowded with small broken objects--hardly recognisable domestic
utensils, ornaments and personal trifles--made of glass, of clay, of discoloured bronze and
other time-blurred substances.

"It seems cruel," she said, "that after a while nothing matters ... any more than these little
things, that used to be necessary and important to forgotten people, and now have to be guessed
at under a magnifying glass and labelled:  'Use unknown.'"

"Yes; but meanwhile--"

"Ah, meanwhile--"

As she stood there, in her long sealskin coat, her hands thrust in a small round muff, her
veil drawn down like a transparent mask to the tip of her nose, and the bunch of violets he
had brought her stirring with her quickly-taken breath, it seemed incredible that this pure
harmony of line and colour should ever suffer the stupid law of change.

"Meanwhile everything matters--that concerns you," he said.

She looked at him thoughtfully, and turned back to the divan.  He sat down beside her and waited;
but suddenly he heard a step echoing far off down the empty rooms, and felt the pressure of
the minutes.

"What is it you wanted to tell me?" she asked, as if she had received the same warning.

"What I wanted to tell you?" he rejoined.  "Why, that I believe you came to New York because
you were afraid."

"Afraid?"

"Of my coming to Washington."

She looked down at her muff, and he saw her hands stir in it uneasily.

"Well--?"

"Well--yes," she said.

"You WERE afraid?  You knew--?"

"Yes: I knew ..."

"Well, then?" he insisted.

"Well, then: this is better, isn't it?" she returned with a long questioning sigh.

"Better--?"

"We shall hurt others less.  Isn't it, after all, what you always wanted?"

"To have you here, you mean--in reach and yet out of reach?  To meet you in this way, on the
sly?  It's the very reverse of what I want.  I told you the other day what I wanted."

She hesitated.  "And you still think this--worse?"

"A thousand times!"  He paused.  "It would be easy to lie to you; but the truth is I think
it detestable."

"Oh, so do I!" she cried with a deep breath of relief.

He sprang up impatiently.  "Well, then--it's my turn to ask: what is it, in God's name, that
you think better?"

She hung her head and continued to clasp and unclasp her hands in her muff.  The step drew
nearer, and a guardian in a braided cap walked listlessly through the room like a ghost stalking
through a necropolis. They fixed their eyes simultaneously on the case opposite them, and when
the official figure had vanished down a vista of mummies and sarcophagi Archer spoke again.

"What do you think better?"

Instead of answering she murmured:  "I promised Granny to stay with her because it seemed to
me that here I should be safer."

"From me?"

She bent her head slightly, without looking at him.

"Safer from loving me?"

Her profile did not stir, but he saw a tear overflow on her lashes and hang in a mesh of her veil.

"Safer from doing irreparable harm.  Don't let us be like all the others!" she protested.

"What others?  I don't profess to be different from my kind.  I'm consumed by the same wants
and the same longings."

She glanced at him with a kind of terror, and he saw a faint colour steal into her cheeks.

"Shall I--once come to you; and then go home?" she suddenly hazarded in a low clear voice.

The blood rushed to the young man's forehead.  "Dearest!" he said, without moving.  It seemed
as if he held his heart in his hands, like a full cup that the least motion might overbrim.

Then her last phrase struck his ear and his face clouded.  "Go home? What do you mean by going
home?"

"Home to my husband."

"And you expect me to say yes to that?"

She raised her troubled eyes to his.  "What else is there?  I can't stay here and lie to the
people who've been good to me."

"But that's the very reason why I ask you to come away!"

"And destroy their lives, when they've helped me to remake mine?"

Archer sprang to his feet and stood looking down on her in inarticulate despair.  It would
have been easy to say:  "Yes, come; come once."  He knew the power she would put in his hands
if she consented; there would be no difficulty then in persuading her not to go back to her
husband.

But something silenced the word on his lips.  A sort of passionate honesty in her made it inconceivable
that he should try to draw her into that familiar trap.  "If I were to let her come," he said
to himself, "I should have to let her go again."  And that was not to be imagined.

But he saw the shadow of the lashes on her wet cheek, and wavered.

"After all," he began again, "we have lives of our own....  There's no use attempting the impossible.
You're so unprejudiced about some things, so used, as you say, to looking at the Gorgon, that
I don't know why you're afraid to face our case, and see it as it really is--unless you think
the sacrifice is not worth making."

She stood up also, her lips tightening under a rapid frown.

"Call it that, then--I must go," she said, drawing her little watch from her bosom.

She turned away, and he followed and caught her by the wrist.  "Well, then: come to me once,"
he said, his head turning suddenly at the thought of losing her; and for a second or two they
looked at each other almost like enemies.

"When?" he insisted.  "Tomorrow?"

She hesitated.  "The day after."

"Dearest--!" he said again.

She had disengaged her wrist; but for a moment they continued to hold each other's eyes, and
he saw that her face, which had grown very pale, was flooded with a deep inner radiance.  His
heart beat with awe: he felt that he had never before beheld love visible.

"Oh, I shall be late--good-bye.  No, don't come any farther than this," she cried, walking
hurriedly away down the long room, as if the reflected radiance in his eyes had frightened
her.  When she reached the door she turned for a moment to wave a quick farewell.

Archer walked home alone.  Darkness was falling when he let himself into his house, and he
looked about at the familiar objects in the hall as if he viewed them from the other side of
the grave.

The parlour-maid, hearing his step, ran up the stairs to light the gas on the upper landing.

"Is Mrs. Archer in?"

"No, sir; Mrs. Archer went out in the carriage after luncheon, and hasn't come back."

With a sense of relief he entered the library and flung himself down in his armchair.  The
parlour-maid followed, bringing the student lamp and shaking some coals onto the dying fire.
When she left he continued to sit motionless, his elbows on his knees, his chin on his clasped
hands, his eyes fixed on the red grate.

He sat there without conscious thoughts, without sense of the lapse of time, in a deep and
grave amazement that seemed to suspend life rather than quicken it.  "This was what had to
be, then ... this was what had to be," he kept repeating to himself, as if he hung in the clutch
of doom.  What he had dreamed of had been so different that there was a mortal chill in his
rapture.

The door opened and May came in.

"I'm dreadfully late--you weren't worried, were you?" she asked, laying her hand on his shoulder
with one of her rare caresses.

He looked up astonished.  "Is it late?"

"After seven.  I believe you've been asleep!"  She laughed, and drawing out her hat pins tossed
her velvet hat on the sofa.  She looked paler than usual, but sparkling with an unwonted animation.

"I went to see Granny, and just as I was going away Ellen came in from a walk; so I stayed
and had a long talk with her.  It was ages since we'd had a real talk...." She had dropped
into her usual armchair, facing his, and was running her fingers through her rumpled hair.
He fancied she expected him to speak.

"A really good talk," she went on, smiling with what seemed to Archer an unnatural vividness.
"She was so dear--just like the old Ellen. I'm afraid I haven't been fair to her lately.  I've
sometimes thought--"

Archer stood up and leaned against the mantelpiece, out of the radius of the lamp.

"Yes, you've thought--?" he echoed as she paused.

"Well, perhaps I haven't judged her fairly.  She's so different--at least on the surface. 
She takes up such odd people--she seems to like to make herself conspicuous.  I suppose it's
the life she's led in that fast European society; no doubt we seem dreadfully dull to her.
But I don't want to judge her unfairly."

She paused again, a little breathless with the unwonted length of her speech, and sat with
her lips slightly parted and a deep blush on her cheeks.

Archer, as he looked at her, was reminded of the glow which had suffused her face in the Mission
Garden at St. Augustine.  He became aware of the same obscure effort in her, the same reaching
out toward something beyond the usual range of her vision.

"She hates Ellen," he thought, "and she's trying to overcome the feeling, and to get me to
help her to overcome it."

The thought moved him, and for a moment he was on the point of breaking the silence between
them, and throwing himself on her mercy.

"You understand, don't you," she went on, "why the family have sometimes been annoyed?  We
all did what we could for her at first; but she never seemed to understand.  And now this idea
of going to see Mrs. Beaufort, of going there in Granny's carriage!  I'm afraid she's quite
alienated the van der Luydens ..."

"Ah," said Archer with an impatient laugh.  The open door had closed between them again.

"It's time to dress; we're dining out, aren't we?" he asked, moving from the fire.

She rose also, but lingered near the hearth.  As he walked past her she moved forward impulsively,
as though to detain him: their eyes met, and he saw that hers were of the same swimming blue
as when he had left her to drive to Jersey City.

She flung her arms about his neck and pressed her cheek to his.

"You haven't kissed me today," she said in a whisper; and he felt her tremble in his arms.

XXXII.

"At the court of the Tuileries," said Mr. Sillerton Jackson with his reminiscent smile, "such
things were pretty openly tolerated."

The scene was the van der Luydens' black walnut dining-room in Madison Avenue, and the time
the evening after Newland Archer's visit to the Museum of Art.  Mr. and Mrs. van der Luyden
had come to town for a few days from Skuytercliff, whither they had precipitately fled at the
announcement of Beaufort's failure.  It had been represented to them that the disarray into
which society had been thrown by this deplorable affair made their presence in town more necessary
than ever.  It was one of the occasions when, as Mrs. Archer put it, they "owed it to society"
to show themselves at the Opera, and even to open their own doors.

"It will never do, my dear Louisa, to let people like Mrs. Lemuel Struthers think they can
step into Regina's shoes.  It is just at such times that new people push in and get a footing.
It was owing to the epidemic of chicken-pox in New York the winter Mrs. Struthers first appeared
that the married men slipped away to her house while their wives were in the nursery.  You
and dear Henry, Louisa, must stand in the breach as you always have."

Mr. and Mrs. van der Luyden could not remain deaf to such a call, and reluctantly but heroically
they had come to town, unmuffled the house, and sent out invitations for two dinners and an
evening reception.

On this particular evening they had invited Sillerton Jackson, Mrs. Archer and Newland and
his wife to go with them to the Opera, where Faust was being sung for the first time that winter.
Nothing was done without ceremony under the van der Luyden roof, and though there were but
four guests the repast had begun at seven punctually, so that the proper sequence of courses
might be served without haste before the gentlemen settled down to their cigars.

Archer had not seen his wife since the evening before.  He had left early for the office, where
he had plunged into an accumulation of unimportant business.  In the afternoon one of the senior
partners had made an unexpected call on his time; and he had reached home so late that May
had preceded him to the van der Luydens', and sent back the carriage.

Now, across the Skuytercliff carnations and the massive plate, she struck him as pale and languid;
but her eyes shone, and she talked with exaggerated animation.

The subject which had called forth Mr. Sillerton Jackson's favourite allusion had been brought
up (Archer fancied not without intention) by their hostess.  The Beaufort failure, or rather
the Beaufort attitude since the failure, was still a fruitful theme for the drawing-room moralist;
and after it had been thoroughly examined and condemned Mrs. van der Luyden had turned her
scrupulous eyes on May Archer.

"Is it possible, dear, that what I hear is true?  I was told your grandmother Mingott's carriage
was seen standing at Mrs. Beaufort's door."  It was noticeable that she no longer called the
offending lady by her Christian name.

May's colour rose, and Mrs. Archer put in hastily: "If it was, I'm convinced it was there without
Mrs. Mingott's knowledge."

"Ah, you think--?"  Mrs. van der Luyden paused, sighed, and glanced at her husband.

"I'm afraid," Mr. van der Luyden said, "that Madame Olenska's kind heart may have led her into
the imprudence of calling on Mrs. Beaufort."

"Or her taste for peculiar people," put in Mrs. Archer in a dry tone, while her eyes dwelt
innocently on her son's.

"I'm sorry to think it of Madame Olenska," said Mrs. van der Luyden; and Mrs. Archer murmured:
"Ah, my dear--and after you'd had her twice at Skuytercliff!"

It was at this point that Mr. Jackson seized the chance to place his favourite allusion.

"At the Tuileries," he repeated, seeing the eyes of the company expectantly turned on him,
"the standard was excessively lax in some respects; and if you'd asked where Morny's money
came from--!  Or who paid the debts of some of the Court beauties ..."

"I hope, dear Sillerton," said Mrs. Archer, "you are not suggesting that we should adopt such
standards?"

"I never suggest," returned Mr. Jackson imperturbably.  "But Madame Olenska's foreign bringing-up
may make her less particular--"

"Ah," the two elder ladies sighed.

"Still, to have kept her grandmother's carriage at a defaulter's door!" Mr. van der Luyden
protested; and Archer guessed that he was remembering, and resenting, the hampers of carnations
he had sent to the little house in Twenty-third Street.

"Of course I've always said that she looks at things quite differently," Mrs. Archer summed up.

A flush rose to May's forehead.  She looked across the table at her husband, and said precipitately:
"I'm sure Ellen meant it kindly."

"Imprudent people are often kind," said Mrs. Archer, as if the fact were scarcely an extenuation;
and Mrs. van der Luyden murmured:  "If only she had consulted some one--"

"Ah, that she never did!" Mrs. Archer rejoined.

At this point Mr. van der Luyden glanced at his wife, who bent her head slightly in the direction
of Mrs. Archer; and the glimmering trains of the three ladies swept out of the door while the
gentlemen settled down to their cigars.  Mr. van der Luyden supplied short ones on Opera nights;
but they were so good that they made his guests deplore his inexorable punctuality.

Archer, after the first act, had detached himself from the party and made his way to the back
of the club box.  From there he watched, over various Chivers, Mingott and Rushworth shoulders,
the same scene that he had looked at, two years previously, on the night of his first meeting
with Ellen Olenska.  He had half-expected her to appear again in old Mrs. Mingott's box, but
it remained empty; and he sat motionless, his eyes fastened on it, till suddenly Madame Nilsson's
pure soprano broke out into "M'ama, non m'ama ..."

Archer turned to the stage, where, in the familiar setting of giant roses and pen-wiper pansies,
the same large blonde victim was succumbing to the same small brown seducer.

From the stage his eyes wandered to the point of the horseshoe where May sat between two older
ladies, just as, on that former evening, she had sat between Mrs. Lovell Mingott and her newly-arrived
"foreign" cousin.  As on that evening, she was all in white; and Archer, who had not noticed
what she wore, recognised the blue-white satin and old lace of her wedding dress.

It was the custom, in old New York, for brides to appear in this costly garment during the
first year or two of marriage: his mother, he knew, kept hers in tissue paper in the hope that
Janey might some day wear it, though poor Janey was reaching the age when pearl grey poplin
and no bridesmaids would be thought more "appropriate."

It struck Archer that May, since their return from Europe, had seldom worn her bridal satin,
and the surprise of seeing her in it made him compare her appearance with that of the young
girl he had watched with such blissful anticipations two years earlier.

Though May's outline was slightly heavier, as her goddesslike build had foretold, her athletic
erectness of carriage, and the girlish transparency of her expression, remained unchanged:
but for the slight languor that Archer had lately noticed in her she would have been the exact
image of the girl playing with the bouquet of lilies-of-the-valley on her betrothal evening.
The fact seemed an additional appeal to his pity: such innocence was as moving as the trustful
clasp of a child.  Then he remembered the passionate generosity latent under that incurious
calm.  He recalled her glance of understanding when he had urged that their engagement should
be announced at the Beaufort ball; he heard the voice in which she had said, in the Mission
garden:  "I couldn't have my happiness made out of a wrong--a wrong to some one else;" and
an uncontrollable longing seized him to tell her the truth, to throw himself on her generosity,
and ask for the freedom he had once refused.

Newland Archer was a quiet and self-controlled young man.  Conformity to the discipline of
a small society had become almost his second nature.  It was deeply distasteful to him to do
anything melodramatic and conspicuous, anything Mr. van der Luyden would have deprecated and
the club box condemned as bad form.  But he had become suddenly unconscious of the club box,
of Mr. van der Luyden, of all that had so long enclosed him in the warm shelter of habit. 
He walked along the semi-circular passage at the back of the house, and opened the door of
Mrs. van der Luyden's box as if it had been a gate into the unknown.

"M'ama!" thrilled out the triumphant Marguerite; and the occupants of the box looked up in
surprise at Archer's entrance.  He had already broken one of the rules of his world, which
forbade the entering of a box during a solo.

Slipping between Mr. van der Luyden and Sillerton Jackson, he leaned over his wife.

"I've got a beastly headache; don't tell any one, but come home, won't you?" he whispered.

May gave him a glance of comprehension, and he saw her whisper to his mother, who nodded sympathetically;
then she murmured an excuse to Mrs. van der Luyden, and rose from her seat just as Marguerite
fell into Faust's arms.  Archer, while he helped her on with her Opera cloak, noticed the exchange
of a significant smile between the older ladies.

As they drove away May laid her hand shyly on his.  "I'm so sorry you don't feel well.  I'm
afraid they've been overworking you again at the office."

"No--it's not that: do you mind if I open the window?" he returned confusedly, letting down
the pane on his side.  He sat staring out into the street, feeling his wife beside him as a
silent watchful interrogation, and keeping his eyes steadily fixed on the passing houses. 
At their door she caught her skirt in the step of the carriage, and fell against him.

"Did you hurt yourself?" he asked, steadying her with his arm.

"No; but my poor dress--see how I've torn it!" she exclaimed.  She bent to gather up a mud-stained
breadth, and followed him up the steps into the hall.  The servants had not expected them so
early, and there was only a glimmer of gas on the upper landing.

Archer mounted the stairs, turned up the light, and put a match to the brackets on each side
of the library mantelpiece. 

He quickly gave his young wife a farewell kiss - that was nothing special, but that he in passing
Gebhard was a kiss that the child was very surprising, for caresses were not between father and son .--
usual

"Because of a few hours of separation kisses you is not?" is said Gebhard and was very thoughtfully
as he walked into his bedroom to get down again. For the first time were soldiers came into the
house, the officer had discussed with his father war secrets which no other man could learn.
Was a bit scary things, but very exciting. Tonight, the war was penetrated into our own house,
now he only really began for Gebhard.

And the young mother was, after release and maid servant, not the long back Sleeping place.
She and her husband, she had never feared the war, but without him overcome by a great fear. It
was so dark, so still and humid. Maybe you could they sleep better
when they opened the door into the next room to Gebhard.

She did it quietly, not to awaken him, and was happy but when she
saw that he had not slept.

"Is it you, mother?" he cried, and sat up wide awake.

"Yes, it is so humid, and I will leave the door slightly open."

"That's nice, then we can chat. I would so like to guess why the father with the Soldiers left.
But perhaps it is better if we do not guess, because it does a war secret. Only the father must
know it: he must be proud. I would also proud of it and no one would
betray the secret war, except maybe you, mother.

Or I may tell you also it not? "

"You never know, Gebhard, yes," the mother said, and laughed merrily. The air seemed to her
no longer sticky before, and soon mother and son were sleeping as calm as the baby cars and
suspected in the basket as little as this, that the last time she slept in the forest home.

In
the morning came the following day, initiated by a long, hurried march back Stegemann. After
a sleepless night, he should strengthen with a good breakfast and the Lost Catch up on sleep,
that was the wish of his young wife, she wanted to without delay for its Provide entertainment.
But he held it back, "This is now a side issue," he said hurriedly, "we have more important things
to do. Lieutenant N. advised me strongly today with his wife and
child and, where possible, to move with their belongings.

Do not be afraid so, darling, the road is still free of enemies, but we will lose no time. Now
be off, it is necessary what is the most necessary and valuable, the more quickly it is only some,
to get to the track. I say at the people who help them to flee also they have to. It may be that
the Russians follow the trail of the patrol that day was that night.

Well, Gebhard, help the mother! "

Within minutes the silence was filled with Forsthof noisy, hasty driving.
The servant drove the car and laid on what was handed to him, beds,
clothes, laundry, all sorts of Inventories of kitchen and chamber.
Gebhard was running in and out, almost cheerfully zealous in action.
Servant and maid were carrying their bundles.

Half an hour had elapsed,
since the keeper looked to his wife, who in their linen closet got
up and drove to the exit: "It is enough to let everything else, we
go!"

She looked very surprised, "That you're so scared!

"I saw Ellen yesterday--I told you I'd seen her at Granny's."

"It wasn't then that she told you?"

"No; I had a note from her this afternoon.--Do you want to see it?"

He could not find his voice, and she went out of the room, and came back almost immediately.

"I thought you knew," she said simply.

She laid a sheet of paper on the table, and Archer put out his hand and took it up.  The letter
contained only a few lines.

"May dear, I have at last made Granny understand that my visit to her could be no more than
a visit; and she has been as kind and generous as ever.  She sees now that if I return to Europe
I must live by myself, or rather with poor Aunt Medora, who is coming with me. I am hurrying
back to Washington to pack up, and we sail next week.  You must be very good to Granny when
I'm gone--as good as you've always been to me. Ellen.

"If any of my friends wish to urge me to change my mind, please tell them it would be utterly
useless."

Archer read the letter over two or three times; then he flung it down and burst out laughing.

The sound of his laugh startled him.  It recalled Janey's midnight fright when she had caught
him rocking with incomprehensible mirth over May's telegram announcing that the date of their
marriage had been advanced.

"Why did she write this?" he asked, checking his laugh with a supreme effort.

May met the question with her unshaken candour.  "I suppose because we talked things over yesterday--"

"What things?"

"I told her I was afraid I hadn't been fair to her--hadn't always understood how hard it must
have been for her here, alone among so many people who were relations and yet strangers; who
felt the right to criticise, and yet didn't always know the circumstances." She paused. "I
knew you'd been the one friend she could always count on; and I wanted her to know that you
and I were the same--in all our feelings."

She hesitated, as if waiting for him to speak, and then added slowly: "She understood my wishing
to tell her this.  I think she understands everything."

She went up to Archer, and taking one of his cold hands pressed it quickly against her cheek.

"My head aches too; good-night, dear," she said, and turned to the door, her torn and muddy
wedding-dress dragging after her across the room.

XXXIII.

It was, as Mrs. Archer smilingly said to Mrs. Welland, a great event for a young couple to
give their first big dinner.

The Newland Archers, since they had set up their household, had received a good deal of company
in an informal way.  Archer was fond of having three or four friends to dine, and May welcomed
them with the beaming readiness of which her mother had set her the example in conjugal affairs.
Her husband questioned whether, if left to herself, she would ever have asked any one to the
house; but he had long given up trying to disengage her real self from the shape into which
tradition and training had moulded her.  It was expected that well-off young couples in New
York should do a good deal of informal entertaining, and a Welland married to an Archer was
doubly pledged to the tradition.

But a big dinner, with a hired chef and two borrowed footmen, with Roman punch, roses from
Henderson's, and menus on gilt-edged cards, was a different affair, and not to be lightly undertaken.
As Mrs. Archer remarked, the Roman punch made all the difference; not in itself but by its
manifold implications--since it signified either canvas-backs or terrapin, two soups, a hot
and a cold sweet, full decolletage with short sleeves, and guests of a proportionate importance.

It was always an interesting occasion when a young pair launched their first invitations in
the third person, and their summons was seldom refused even by the seasoned and sought-after.
Still, it was admittedly a triumph that the van der Luydens, at May's request, should have
stayed over in order to be present at her farewell dinner for the Countess Olenska.

The two mothers-in-law sat in May's drawing-room on the afternoon of the great day, Mrs. Archer
writing out the menus on Tiffany's thickest gilt-edged bristol, while Mrs. Welland superintended
the placing of the palms and standard lamps.

Archer, arriving late from his office, found them still there.  Mrs. Archer had turned her
attention to the name-cards for the table, and Mrs. Welland was considering the effect of bringing
forward the large gilt sofa, so that another "corner" might be created between the piano and
the window.

May, they told him, was in the dining-room inspecting the mound of Jacqueminot roses and maidenhair
in the centre of the long table, and the placing of the Maillard bonbons in openwork silver
baskets between the candelabra.  On the piano stood a large basket of orchids which Mr. van
der Luyden had had sent from Skuytercliff.  Everything was, in short, as it should be on the
approach of so considerable an event.

Mrs. Archer ran thoughtfully over the list, checking off each name with her sharp gold pen.

"Henry van der Luyden--Louisa--the Lovell Mingotts--the Reggie Chiverses--Lawrence Lefferts
and Gertrude--(yes, I suppose May was right to have them)--the Selfridge Merrys, Sillerton
Jackson, Van Newland and his wife. (How time passes!  It seems only yesterday that he was your
best man, Newland)--and Countess Olenska--yes, I think that's all...."

Mrs. Welland surveyed her son-in-law affectionately.  "No one can say, Newland, that you and
May are not giving Ellen a handsome send-off."

"Ah, well," said Mrs. Archer, "I understand May's wanting her cousin to tell people abroad
that we're not quite barbarians."

"I'm sure Ellen will appreciate it.  She was to arrive this morning, I believe.  It will make
a most charming last impression.  The evening before sailing is usually so dreary," Mrs. Welland
cheerfully continued.

Archer turned toward the door, and his mother-in-law called to him: "Do go in and have a peep
at the table.  And don't let May tire herself too much."  But he affected not to hear, and
sprang up the stairs to his library.  The room looked at him like an alien countenance composed
into a polite grimace; and he perceived that it had been ruthlessly "tidied," and prepared,
by a judicious distribution of ash-trays and cedar-wood boxes, for the gentlemen to smoke in.

"Ah, well," he thought, "it's not for long--" and he went on to his dressing-room.

Ten days had passed since Madame Olenska's departure from New York. During those ten days Archer
had had no sign from her but that conveyed by the return of a key wrapped in tissue paper,
and sent to his office in a sealed envelope addressed in her hand.  This retort to his last
appeal might have been interpreted as a classic move in a familiar game; but the young man
chose to give it a different meaning.  She was still fighting against her fate; but she was
going to Europe, and she was not returning to her husband.  Nothing, therefore, was to prevent
his following her; and once he had taken the irrevocable step, and had proved to her that it
was irrevocable, he believed she would not send him away.

This confidence in the future had steadied him to play his part in the present.  It had kept
him from writing to her, or betraying, by any sign or act, his misery and mortification.  It
seemed to him that in the deadly silent game between them the trumps were still in his hands;
and he waited.

There had been, nevertheless, moments sufficiently difficult to pass; as when Mr. Letterblair,
the day after Madame Olenska's departure, had sent for him to go over the details of the trust
which Mrs. Manson Mingott wished to create for her granddaughter.  For a couple of hours Archer
had examined the terms of the deed with his senior, all the while obscurely feeling that if
he had been consulted it was for some reason other than the obvious one of his cousinship;
and that the close of the conference would reveal it.

"Well, the lady can't deny that it's a handsome arrangement," Mr. Letterblair had summed up,
after mumbling over a summary of the settlement.  "In fact I'm bound to say she's been treated
pretty handsomely all round."

"All round?" Archer echoed with a touch of derision.  "Do you refer to her husband's proposal
to give her back her own money?"

Mr. Letterblair's bushy eyebrows went up a fraction of an inch.  "My dear sir, the law's the
law; and your wife's cousin was married under the French law.  It's to be presumed she knew
what that meant."

"Even if she did, what happened subsequently--."  But Archer paused. Mr. Letterblair had laid
his pen-handle against his big corrugated nose, and was looking down it with the expression
assumed by virtuous elderly gentlemen when they wish their youngers to understand that virtue
is not synonymous with ignorance.

"My dear sir, I've no wish to extenuate the Count's transgressions; but--but on the other side
... I wouldn't put my hand in the fire ... well, that there hadn't been tit for tat ... with
the young champion...."  Mr. Letterblair unlocked a drawer and pushed a folded paper toward
Archer.  "This report, the result of discreet enquiries ..."  And then, as Archer made no effort
to glance at the paper or to repudiate the suggestion, the lawyer somewhat flatly continued:
"I don't say it's conclusive, you observe; far from it.  But straws show ... and on the whole
it's eminently satisfactory for all parties that this dignified solution has been reached."

"Oh, eminently," Archer assented, pushing back the paper.

A day or two later, on responding to a summons from Mrs. Manson Mingott, his soul had been
more deeply tried.

He had found the old lady depressed and querulous.

"You know she's deserted me?" she began at once; and without waiting for his reply:  "Oh, don't
ask me why!  She gave so many reasons that I've forgotten them all.  My private belief is that
she couldn't face the boredom.  At any rate that's what Augusta and my daughters-in-law think.
And I don't know that I altogether blame her.  Olenski's a finished scoundrel; but life with
him must have been a good deal gayer than it is in Fifth Avenue.  Not that the family would
admit that: they think Fifth Avenue is Heaven with the rue de la Paix thrown in.  And poor
Ellen, of course, has no idea of going back to her husband.  She held out as firmly as ever
against that.  So she's to settle down in Paris with that fool Medora....  Well, Paris is Paris;
and you can keep a carriage there on next to nothing.  But she was as gay as a bird, and I
shall miss her." Two tears, the parched tears of the old, rolled down her puffy cheeks and
vanished in the abysses of her bosom.

"All I ask is," she concluded, "that they shouldn't bother me any more. I must really be allowed
to digest my gruel...."  And she twinkled a little wistfully at Archer.

It was that evening, on his return home, that May announced her intention of giving a farewell
dinner to her cousin.  Madame Olenska's name had not been pronounced between them since the
night of her flight to Washington; and Archer looked at his wife with surprise.

"A dinner--why?" he interrogated.

Her colour rose.  "But you like Ellen--I thought you'd be pleased."

"It's awfully nice--your putting it in that way.  But I really don't see--"

"I mean to do it, Newland," she said, quietly rising and going to her desk.  "Here are the
invitations all written.  Mother helped me--she agrees that we ought to."  She paused, embarrassed
and yet smiling, and Archer suddenly saw before him the embodied image of the Family.

"Oh, all right," he said, staring with unseeing eyes at the list of guests that she had put
in his hand.

When he entered the drawing-room before dinner May was stooping over the fire and trying to
coax the logs to burn in their unaccustomed setting of immaculate tiles.

The tall lamps were all lit, and Mr. van der Luyden's orchids had been conspicuously disposed
in various receptacles of modern porcelain and knobby silver.  Mrs. Newland Archer's drawing-room
was generally thought a great success.  A gilt bamboo jardiniere, in which the primulas and
cinerarias were punctually renewed, blocked the access to the bay window (where the old-fashioned
would have preferred a bronze reduction of the Venus of Milo); the sofas and arm-chairs of
pale brocade were cleverly grouped about little plush tables densely covered with silver toys,
porcelain animals and efflorescent photograph frames; and tall rosy-shaded lamps shot up like
tropical flowers among the palms.

"I don't think Ellen has ever seen this room lighted up," said May, rising flushed from her
struggle, and sending about her a glance of pardonable pride.  The brass tongs which she had
propped against the side of the chimney fell with a crash that drowned her husband's answer;
and before he could restore them Mr. and Mrs. van der Luyden were announced.

The other guests quickly followed, for it was known that the van der Luydens liked to dine
punctually.  The room was nearly full, and Archer was engaged in showing to Mrs. Selfridge
Merry a small highly-varnished Verbeckhoven "Study of Sheep," which Mr. Welland had given May
for Christmas, when he found Madame Olenska at his side. What on earth was the "friendly
philosophy" of this "chain carrier" with the Kantian critique of knowledge, with to do the Transcendental
Aesthetic and Transcendental Analytic? If we contrast to that of Kleist Fichte's definition
of man "and that he was coming from the content and thought this book in front of Rühle broadly developed
- would also raise clarified. Because we remember that all deductions of Fichte's worth and worthlessness
of the knowledge of Problem of free will had made their exit. The possibility of human to save
freedom, the world had to be resolved of things in a world of images the mind by their own laws
designed automatically. But when this objective waived - if there was a way to reconcile with
the idea of ​​Willensunfreiheit and to have him appear in a milder and friendlier light? Then
came - it seemed it - continuing with the aim and the means, then was the realistic view of claims
and with it the knowledge of the role that an expression of absolute reality to be preserved be.
Kleist was certainly already penetrated deep into the core of the problem as that himself with
such apparent solution would be content. More and more he pondered just During this time, not
only the possibility of knowledge, but also the possibility of willing, of free moral decision
under. And here he found himself immediately in front of a border out of understanding. We believe
to be free - but is not this faith is a empty illusion? If we do not even Herget-rubbed, and of
the most unpredictable coincidence of may interfere with our daily and hourly skill and give
him a completely new turn? As Kleist, because Ulrich has offered him half against his will
accompany her to Paris, is forced to require passports for himself and his sister, and when
he, in order to obtain these passes, Scientific studies indicate as purpose of travel and take
part upon oneself must, as he was determined to escape the science on this trip forever, there
is in him again the feeling powerful as the blind fate plays with the people. "Oh, Wilhelmine -
he writes - we seem to us free will and chance are all-powerful away a thousand finely-spun yarns.
- "Even in the letters from the journey continues and returns continues this reflection and
the mood that it awakens in him again. By law we have here one of the earliest seeds of the first
major Kleist's tragic poetry to the design the "family Schroffenstein" seen. [2] And still the
tragedy is rooted in Kleist The reason this feeling. What Goethe said in his Strasbourg speech
by Shakespeare, that all his poems are about the "secret points" on which the peculiarity our
ego, the pretended freedom of our will with the necessary course of the whole crashes: the same goes
for poetry Kleist. leave from this "secret item" from Kleist, the figures, can be Alcmene and
Robert Guiscard, Penthesilea, and Katie, Kohlhaas and the Marquise of O ... only truly interpret.
If Scripture really Fichte been, the problem of free will in his first full sharpness and
clarity has placed before Kleist, one could understand that she Kleist for everything from
the beginning must mean as an abstract theoretical speculation, for the abstract conceptual Discussion
touched here in himself a spiritual motive, the whole of his poetic Sense view of the world and life
context was crucial. -

[2] S. ~ ~ Otto Brahm, Heinrich von Kleist, Berlin, 1885, P. 75 f.

2.

  However, more important than the question of the source
      from which ~ ~ Kleist his knowledge of doctrine of transcendental
idealism has drawn, the other question, what inner turn be under the
influence of this training concept, now in Kleist takes and how important
the intellectual crisis that he has experienced here for the whole
of his artistry ~ ~ wins.

And here it is possible - as paradoxical as it may seem at first
- say, in fact, that Kleist has got into this crisis not only a new
theoretical view of the world, but that he understood it only in and
through his basic artistic direction of truly added.

This is the peculiarity in Kleist's development, which in this form, perhaps in the Life history
of any other great poet returns that an intellectual adventure is solved at the same time
the productive forces in poetic and freed him and the has only helped himself to full consciousness
of these forces.


At this point, he became conscious that Madame Olenska's other neighbour had been engaged for
some time with the lady on his right. At the same moment he saw that May, serenely enthroned
between Mr. van der Luyden and Mr. Selfridge Merry, had cast a quick glance down the table.
It was evident that the host and the lady on his right could not sit through the whole meal
in silence.  He turned to Madame Olenska, and her pale smile met him.  "Oh, do let's see it
through," it seemed to say.

"Did you find the journey tiring?" he asked in a voice that surprised him by its naturalness;
and she answered that, on the contrary, she had seldom travelled with fewer discomforts.

"Except, you know, the dreadful heat in the train," she added; and he remarked that she would
not suffer from that particular hardship in the country she was going to.

"I never," he declared with intensity, "was more nearly frozen than once, in April, in the
train between Calais and Paris."

She said she did not wonder, but remarked that, after all, one could always carry an extra
rug, and that every form of travel had its hardships; to which he abruptly returned that he
thought them all of no account compared with the blessedness of getting away.  She changed
colour, and he added, his voice suddenly rising in pitch:  "I mean to do a lot of travelling
myself before long."  A tremor crossed her face, and leaning over to Reggie Chivers, he cried
out:  "I say, Reggie, what do you say to a trip round the world: now, next month, I mean? 
I'm game if you are--" at which Mrs. Reggie piped up that she could not think of letting Reggie
go till after the Martha Washington Ball she was getting up for the Blind Asylum in Easter
week; and her husband placidly observed that by that time he would have to be practising for
the International Polo match.

But Mr. Selfridge Merry had caught the phrase "round the world," and having once circled the
globe in his steam-yacht, he seized the opportunity to send down the table several striking
items concerning the shallowness of the Mediterranean ports.  Though, after all, he added,
it didn't matter; for when you'd seen Athens and Smyrna and Constantinople, what else was there?
And Mrs. Merry said she could never be too grateful to Dr. Bencomb for having made them promise
not to go to Naples on account of the fever.

"But you must have three weeks to do India properly," her husband conceded, anxious to have
it understood that he was no frivolous globe-trotter.

And at this point the ladies went up to the drawing-room.

In the library, in spite of weightier presences, Lawrence Lefferts predominated.

The talk, as usual, had veered around to the Beauforts, and even Mr. van der Luyden and Mr.
Selfridge Merry, installed in the honorary arm-chairs tacitly reserved for them, paused to
listen to the younger man's philippic.

Never had Lefferts so abounded in the sentiments that adorn Christian manhood and exalt the
sanctity of the home.  Indignation lent him a scathing eloquence, and it was clear that if
others had followed his example, and acted as he talked, society would never have been weak
enough to receive a foreign upstart like Beaufort--no, sir, not even if he'd married a van
der Luyden or a Lanning instead of a Dallas.  And what chance would there have been, Lefferts
wrathfully questioned, of his marrying into such a family as the Dallases, if he had not already
wormed his way into certain houses, as people like Mrs. Lemuel Struthers had managed to worm
theirs in his wake?  If society chose to open its doors to vulgar women the harm was not great,
though the gain was doubtful; but once it got in the way of tolerating men of obscure origin
and tainted wealth the end was total disintegration--and at no distant date.

"If things go on at this pace," Lefferts thundered, looking like a young prophet dressed by
Poole, and who had not yet been stoned, "we shall see our children fighting for invitations
to swindlers' houses, and marrying Beaufort's bastards."

"Oh, I say--draw it mild!" Reggie Chivers and young Newland protested, while Mr. Selfridge
Merry looked genuinely alarmed, and an expression of pain and disgust settled on Mr. van der
Luyden's sensitive face.

"Has he got any?" cried Mr. Sillerton Jackson, pricking up his ears; and while Lefferts tried
to turn the question with a laugh, the old gentleman twittered into Archer's ear:  "Queer,
those fellows who are always wanting to set things right.  The people who have the worst cooks
are always telling you they're poisoned when they dine out.  But I hear there are pressing
reasons for our friend Lawrence's diatribe:--typewriter this time, I understand...."

The talk swept past Archer like some senseless river running and running because it did not
know enough to stop.  He saw, on the faces about him, expressions of interest, amusement and
even mirth.  He listened to the younger men's laughter, and to the praise of the Archer Madeira,
which Mr. van der Luyden and Mr. Merry were thoughtfully celebrating.  Through it all he was
dimly aware of a general attitude of friendliness toward himself, as if the guard of the prisoner
he felt himself to be were trying to soften his captivity; and the perception increased his
passionate determination to be free.

In the drawing-room, where they presently joined the ladies, he met May's triumphant eyes,
and read in them the conviction that everything had "gone off" beautifully.  She rose from
Madame Olenska's side, and immediately Mrs. van der Luyden beckoned the latter to a seat on
the gilt sofa where she throned.  Mrs. Selfridge Merry bore across the room to join them, and
it became clear to Archer that here also a conspiracy of rehabilitation and obliteration was
going on.  The silent organisation which held his little world together was determined to put
itself on record as never for a moment having questioned the propriety of Madame Olenska's
conduct, or the completeness of Archer's domestic felicity.  All these amiable and inexorable
persons were resolutely engaged in pretending to each other that they had never heard of, suspected,
or even conceived possible, the least hint to the contrary; and from this tissue of elaborate
mutual dissimulation Archer once more disengaged the fact that New York believed him to be
Madame Olenska's lover.  He caught the glitter of victory in his wife's eyes, and for the first
time understood that she shared the belief.  The discovery roused a laughter of inner devils
that reverberated through all his efforts to discuss the Martha Washington ball with Mrs. Reggie
Chivers and little Mrs. Newland; and so the evening swept on, running and running like a senseless
river that did not know how to stop.

At length he saw that Madame Olenska had risen and was saying good-bye. As he had already left the room, he heard screaming Beate's end Laugh.

He
returned to the dining room, sat down at the piano, struck a note
of any issue on and prelude.

But it was as if between him and the instruments of a wall; the sounds were muffled and distant.
He got up, opened the windows and the glass door in the garden led. He went out. Of trees and
bushes dripping rain water, and the beds was blackest darkness. On whitish gray sky clouds
pushed out, and the Storm still shone in the distance. I was a different person than that lightning
still on the other side of the horizon were thought Hanka; between two gusts of wind has the
fate approached. He followed the looped garden paths, and the steady drop of water sounded to
him like the hammers of the piano that did not want to drown this evening. It was late, when he again
returned to the room which he completed in all directions. He took in a corner room and grabbed
a book to a second and third. Hanka had a Feeling of tiredness and heaviness, as if he had
two nights of partying. He stretched in the chair, and began a hollow in his head thinking
that hollow in a night passed, when the leaves began to glow in the garden of the Dawn.

Thirty-seventh chapter

Hanka after Arnold had left home, he was undecided for a while in
front of goal.

Then he crossed the unknown alley, but returned again. In silence stood the Villas and cottages
on both sides of the road, and his ears heard no other sound than those of the rain. He came
from a bank, under cover of an old chestnut tree remained fairly dry and was sat down.

The last one wanted to look and a handshake Alexander Hanka him out
of my head.

Arnold felt well that is more and different was included as a grateful acknowledgment for a well-intentioned
Service, in any case other than what Arnold had expected.
  Thanks so much, you old brick!  Good-night."

"It DID go off beautifully, didn't it?" May questioned from the threshold of the library.

Archer roused himself with a start.  As soon as the last carriage had driven away, he had come
up to the library and shut himself in, with the hope that his wife, who still lingered below,
would go straight to her room.  But there she stood, pale and drawn, yet radiating the factitious
energy of one who has passed beyond fatigue.

"May I come and talk it over?" she asked.

"Of course, if you like.  But you must be awfully sleepy--"

"No, I'm not sleepy.  I should like to sit with you a little."

"Very well," he said, pushing her chair near the fire.

She sat down and he resumed his seat; but neither spoke for a long time.  At length Archer
began abruptly: "Since you're not tired, and want to talk, there's something I must tell you.
I tried to the other night--."

She looked at him quickly.  "Yes, dear.  Something about yourself?"

"About myself.  You say you're not tired: well, I am.  Horribly tired ..."

In an instant she was all tender anxiety.  "Oh, I've seen it coming on, Newland!  You've been
so wickedly overworked--"

"Perhaps it's that.  Anyhow, I want to make a break--"

"A break?  To give up the law?"

"To go away, at any rate--at once.  On a long trip, ever so far off--away from everything--"

He paused, conscious that he had failed in his attempt to speak with the indifference of a
man who longs for a change, and is yet too weary to welcome it.  Do what he would, the chord
of eagerness vibrated. "Away from everything--" he repeated.

"Ever so far?  Where, for instance?" she asked.

"Oh, I don't know.  India--or Japan."

She stood up, and as he sat with bent head, his chin propped on his hands, he felt her warmly
and fragrantly hovering over him.

"As far as that?  But I'm afraid you can't, dear ..." she said in an unsteady voice.  "Not
unless you'll take me with you."  And then, as he was silent, she went on, in tones so clear
and evenly-pitched that each separate syllable tapped like a little hammer on his brain:  "That
is, if the doctors will let me go ... but I'm afraid they won't.  For you see, Newland, I've
been sure since this morning of something I've been so longing and hoping for--"

He looked up at her with a sick stare, and she sank down, all dew and roses, and hid her face
against his knee.

"Oh, my dear," he said, holding her to him while his cold hand stroked her hair.

There was a long pause, which the inner devils filled with strident laughter; then May freed
herself from his arms and stood up.

"You didn't guess--?"

"Yes--I; no.  That is, of course I hoped--"

They looked at each other for an instant and again fell silent; then, turning his eyes from
hers, he asked abruptly:  "Have you told any one else?"

"Only Mamma and your mother."  She paused, and then added hurriedly, the blood flushing up
to her forehead:  "That is--and Ellen.  You know I told you we'd had a long talk one afternoon--and
how dear she was to me."

"Ah--" said Archer, his heart stopping.

He felt that his wife was watching him intently.  "Did you MIND my telling her first, Newland?"

"Mind?  Why should I?"  He made a last effort to collect himself.  "But that was a fortnight
ago, wasn't it?  I thought you said you weren't sure till today."

Her colour burned deeper, but she held his gaze.  "No; I wasn't sure then--but I told her I
was.  And you see I was right!" she exclaimed, her blue eyes wet with victory.

XXXIV.

Newland Archer sat at the writing-table in his library in East Thirty-ninth Street.

He had just got back from a big official reception for the inauguration of the new galleries
at the Metropolitan Museum, and the spectacle of those great spaces crowded with the spoils
of the ages, where the throng of fashion circulated through a series of scientifically catalogued
treasures, had suddenly pressed on a rusted spring of memory.

"Why, this used to be one of the old Cesnola rooms," he heard some one say; and instantly everything
about him vanished, and he was sitting alone on a hard leather divan against a radiator, while
a slight figure in a long sealskin cloak moved away down the meagrely-fitted vista of the old
Museum.

The vision had roused a host of other associations, and he sat looking with new eyes at the
library which, for over thirty years, had been the scene of his solitary musings and of all
the family confabulations.

It was the room in which most of the real things of his life had happened.  There his wife,
nearly twenty-six years ago, had broken to him, with a blushing circumlocution that would have
caused the young women of the new generation to smile, the news that she was to have a child;
and there their eldest boy, Dallas, too delicate to be taken to church in midwinter, had been
christened by their old friend the Bishop of New York, the ample magnificent irreplaceable
Bishop, so long the pride and ornament of his diocese.  There Dallas had first staggered across
the floor shouting "Dad," while May and the nurse laughed behind the door; there their second
child, Mary (who was so like her mother), had announced her engagement to the dullest and most
reliable of Reggie Chivers's many sons; and there Archer had kissed her through her wedding
veil before they went down to the motor which was to carry them to Grace Church--for in a world
where all else had reeled on its foundations the "Grace Church wedding" remained an unchanged
institution.

It was in the library that he and May had always discussed the future of the children: the
studies of Dallas and his young brother Bill, Mary's incurable indifference to "accomplishments,"
and passion for sport and philanthropy, and the vague leanings toward "art" which had finally
landed the restless and curious Dallas in the office of a rising New York architect.

The young men nowadays were emancipating themselves from the law and business and taking up
all sorts of new things.  If they were not absorbed in state politics or municipal reform,
the chances were that they were going in for Central American archaeology, for architecture
or landscape-engineering; taking a keen and learned interest in the prerevolutionary buildings
of their own country, studying and adapting Georgian types, and protesting at the meaningless
use of the word "Colonial."  Nobody nowadays had "Colonial" houses except the millionaire grocers
of the suburbs.

But above all--sometimes Archer put it above all--it was in that library that the Governor
of New York, coming down from Albany one evening to dine and spend the night, had turned to
his host, and said, banging his clenched fist on the table and gnashing his eye-glasses: "Hang
the professional politician!  You're the kind of man the country wants, Archer.  If the stable's
ever to be cleaned out, men like you have got to lend a hand in the cleaning."

"Men like you--" how Archer had glowed at the phrase!  How eagerly he had risen up at the call!
It was an echo of Ned Winsett's old appeal to roll his sleeves up and get down into the muck;
but spoken by a man who set the example of the gesture, and whose summons to follow him was
irresistible.

Archer, as he looked back, was not sure that men like himself WERE what his country needed,
at least in the active service to which Theodore Roosevelt had pointed; in fact, there was
reason to think it did not, for after a year in the State Assembly he had not been re-elected,
and had dropped back thankfully into obscure if useful municipal work, and from that again
to the writing of occasional articles in one of the reforming weeklies that were trying to
shake the country out of its apathy.  It was little enough to look back on; but when he remembered
to what the young men of his generation and his set had looked forward--the narrow groove of
money-making, sport and society to which their vision had been limited--even his small contribution
to the new state of things seemed to count, as each brick counts in a well-built wall.  He
had done little in public life; he would always be by nature a contemplative and a dilettante;
but he had had high things to contemplate, great things to delight in; and one great man's
friendship to be his strength and pride.

He had been, in short, what people were beginning to call "a good citizen."  In New York, for
many years past, every new movement, philanthropic, municipal or artistic, had taken account
of his opinion and wanted his name.  People said:  "Ask Archer" when there was a question of
starting the first school for crippled children, reorganising the Museum of Art, founding the
Grolier Club, inaugurating the new Library, or getting up a new society of chamber music. 
His days were full, and they were filled decently.  He supposed it was all a man ought to ask.

Something he knew he had missed: the flower of life.  But he thought of it now as a thing so
unattainable and improbable that to have repined would have been like despairing because one
had not drawn the first prize in a lottery.  There were a hundred million tickets in HIS lottery,
and there was only one prize; the chances had been too decidedly against him.  When he thought
of Ellen Olenska it was abstractly, serenely, as one might think of some imaginary beloved
in a book or a picture: she had become the composite vision of all that he had missed. 

"Go into it and shut up!" He said her husband took her quickly, she expressed his heart, kissed
her stormy and led her into the bedroom for their little ones.

"God bless you," he said, "too close!"

She pushed the bolt.

At that moment, Gebhard was breathless, "Father, Russian horsemen
are in the yard, they ask according to the forester.

What do they want from you?

"

Mr. Stegeman moved his child passionately to himself: "You may want to know where our soldiers are
now gone negative. "

"But you must tell them not?"

"No."

"What, then, father?"

"What God wants."

The leader of the Russian troops, which consisted of about 15 men, entered the room, the revolver
in his hand, and some of his men followed, others were guard at the
door.

It came as the Forester predicted. The Russian officer wanted to know where the German patrol,
the track had found it, was drawn. Evidently his intention was to follow her, she to intercept
before they fulfill their purpose and provide information on their exploration of the German
message could. A Polish forestry workers had told him that the forester led the patrol had.
And now he would lead the enemies who seek easy-to-horse German pedestrian would.

The forester, the rights to the table having heard the call.

Hard sounded his answer: "Find them yourself you can not man the
German demand that he tell the Germans."

Gebhard stood beside his
father with glowing cheeks. Like a hero appeared to him the father,
as the Russian officer he briefly and firmly refused the service.

The
Russians, however, laughed mockingly, in the sense of superiority:
"You are not a goal you want. you are slain with wife and child in
5 minutes. "

Deep sigh of relief, "said the forester," I will not
a traitor. " The officer rose Anger, but he was anxious to win a willing
leader, he controlled himself. "Take You to reason, "he said." They
apologized for the distress you are powerless in our hands. If you
decide quickly that our precious time is not lost. Then you should
return to honor officer, unhurt, as soon as we reached the Germans
and before they have seen you. Woman and child you can get to safety,
your possessions will be remain unaffected. "

The forester was silent.


Opposite May's portrait stood one of her daughter.  Mary Chivers was as tall and fair as her
mother, but large-waisted, flat-chested and slightly slouching, as the altered fashion required.
Mary Chivers's mighty feats of athleticism could not have been performed with the twenty-inch
waist that May Archer's azure sash so easily spanned.  And the difference seemed symbolic;
the mother's life had been as closely girt as her figure.  Mary, who was no less conventional,
and no more intelligent, yet led a larger life and held more tolerant views.  There was good
in the new order too.

The telephone clicked, and Archer, turning from the photographs, unhooked the transmitter at
his elbow.  How far they were from the days when the legs of the brass-buttoned messenger boy
had been New York's only means of quick communication!

"Chicago wants you."

Ah--it must be a long-distance from Dallas, who had been sent to Chicago by his firm to talk
over the plan of the Lakeside palace they were to build for a young millionaire with ideas.
The firm always sent Dallas on such errands.

"Hallo, Dad--Yes: Dallas.  I say--how do you feel about sailing on Wednesday?  Mauretania:
Yes, next Wednesday as ever is.  Our client wants me to look at some Italian gardens before
we settle anything, and has asked me to nip over on the next boat.  I've got to be back on
the first of June--" the voice broke into a joyful conscious laugh--"so we must look alive.
I say, Dad, I want your help: do come."

Dallas seemed to be speaking in the room: the voice was as near by and natural as if he had
been lounging in his favourite arm-chair by the fire.  The fact would not ordinarily have surprised
Archer, for long-distance telephoning had become as much a matter of course as electric lighting
and five-day Atlantic voyages. If the
judiciary has lost its direct handling is not possible for individuals more to resist. The concept
of law is not enforced and done, but forms like the language. "

Arnold looked down quite perplexing himself.

The voice began again:  "Think it over?  No, sir: not a minute.  You've got to say yes now.
Why not, I'd like to know?  If you can allege a single reason--No; I knew it.  Then it's a
go, eh?  Because I count on you to ring up the Cunard office first thing tomorrow; and you'd
better book a return on a boat from Marseilles.  I say, Dad; it'll be our last time together,
in this kind of way--.  Oh, good!  I knew you would."

Chicago rang off, and Archer rose and began to pace up and down the room.

It would be their last time together in this kind of way: the boy was right.  They would have
lots of other "times" after Dallas's marriage, his father was sure; for the two were born comrades,
and Fanny Beaufort, whatever one might think of her, did not seem likely to interfere with
their intimacy.  On the contrary, from what he had seen of her, he thought she would be naturally
included in it.  Still, change was change, and differences were differences, and much as he
felt himself drawn toward his future daughter-in-law, it was tempting to seize this last chance
of being alone with his boy.

There was no reason why he should not seize it, except the profound one that he had lost the
habit of travel.  May had disliked to move except for valid reasons, such as taking the children
to the sea or in the mountains: she could imagine no other motive for leaving the house in
Thirty-ninth Street or their comfortable quarters at the Wellands' in Newport.  After Dallas
had taken his degree she had thought it her duty to travel for six months; and the whole family
had made the old-fashioned tour through England, Switzerland and Italy.  Their time being limited
(no one knew why) they had omitted France.  Archer remembered Dallas's wrath at being asked
to contemplate Mont Blanc instead of Rheims and Chartres.  But Mary and Bill wanted mountain-climbing,
and had already yawned their way in Dallas's wake through the English cathedrals; and May,
always fair to her children, had insisted on holding the balance evenly between their athletic
and artistic proclivities.  She had indeed proposed that her husband should go to Paris for
a fortnight, and join them on the Italian lakes after they had "done" Switzerland; but Archer
had declined.  "We'll stick together," he said; and May's face had brightened at his setting
such a good example to Dallas.

Since her death, nearly two years before, there had been no reason for his continuing in the
same routine.  His children had urged him to travel: Mary Chivers had felt sure it would do
him good to go abroad and "see the galleries."  The very mysteriousness of such a cure made
her the more confident of its efficacy.  But Archer had found himself held fast by habit, by
memories, by a sudden startled shrinking from new things.

Now, as he reviewed his past, he saw into what a deep rut he had sunk. The worst of doing one's
duty was that it apparently unfitted one for doing anything else.  At least that was the view
that the men of his generation had taken.  The trenchant divisions between right and wrong,
honest and dishonest, respectable and the reverse, had left so little scope for the unforeseen.
There are moments when a man's imagination, so easily subdued to what it lives in, suddenly
rises above its daily level, and surveys the long windings of destiny.  Archer hung there and
wondered....

What was left of the little world he had grown up in, and whose standards had bent and bound
him?  He remembered a sneering prophecy of poor Lawrence Lefferts's, uttered years ago in that
very room:  "If things go on at this rate, our children will be marrying Beaufort's bastards."

It was just what Archer's eldest son, the pride of his life, was doing; and nobody wondered
or reproved.  Even the boy's Aunt Janey, who still looked so exactly as she used to in her
elderly youth, had taken her mother's emeralds and seed-pearls out of their pink cotton-wool,
and carried them with her own twitching hands to the future bride; and Fanny Beaufort, instead
of looking disappointed at not receiving a "set" from a Paris jeweller, had exclaimed at their
old-fashioned beauty, and declared that when she wore them she should feel like an Isabey miniature.

Fanny Beaufort, who had appeared in New York at eighteen, after the death of her parents, had
won its heart much as Madame Olenska had won it thirty years earlier; only instead of being
distrustful and afraid of her, society took her joyfully for granted.  She was pretty, amusing
and accomplished: what more did any one want?  Nobody was narrow-minded enough to rake up against
her the half-forgotten facts of her father's past and her own origin.  Only the older people
remembered so obscure an incident in the business life of New York as Beaufort's failure, or
the fact that after his wife's death he had been quietly married to the notorious Fanny Ring,
and had left the country with his new wife, and a little girl who inherited her beauty.  He
was subsequently heard of in Constantinople, then in Russia; and a dozen years later American
travellers were handsomely entertained by him in Buenos Ayres, where he represented a large
insurance agency.  He and his wife died there in the odour of prosperity; and one day their
orphaned daughter had appeared in New York in charge of May Archer's sister-in-law, Mrs. Jack
Welland, whose husband had been appointed the girl's guardian.  The fact threw her into almost
cousinly relationship with Newland Archer's children, and nobody was surprised when Dallas's
engagement was announced.

Nothing could more dearly give the measure of the distance that the world had travelled.  People
nowadays were too busy--busy with reforms and "movements," with fads and fetishes and frivolities--to
bother much about their neighbours.  And of what account was anybody's past, in the huge kaleidoscope
where all the social atoms spun around on the same plane?

Newland Archer, looking out of his hotel window at the stately gaiety of the Paris streets,
felt his heart beating with the confusion and eagerness of youth.

It was long since it had thus plunged and reared under his widening waistcoat, leaving him,
the next minute, with an empty breast and hot temples.  He wondered if it was thus that his
son's conducted itself in the presence of Miss Fanny Beaufort--and decided that it was not.
"It functions as actively, no doubt, but the rhythm is different," he reflected, recalling
the cool composure with which the young man had announced his engagement, and taken for granted
that his family would approve.

"The difference is that these young people take it for granted that they're going to get whatever
they want, and that we almost always took it for granted that we shouldn't.  Only, I wonder--the
thing one's so certain of in advance: can it ever make one's heart beat as wildly?"

It was the day after their arrival in Paris, and the spring sunshine held Archer in his open
window, above the wide silvery prospect of the Place Vendome.  One of the things he had stipulated--almost
the only one--when he had agreed to come abroad with Dallas, was that, in Paris, he shouldn't
be made to go to one of the newfangled "palaces."

"Oh, all right--of course," Dallas good-naturedly agreed.  "I'll take you to some jolly old-fashioned
place--the Bristol say--" leaving his father speechless at hearing that the century-long home
of kings and emperors was now spoken of as an old-fashioned inn, where one went for its quaint
inconveniences and lingering local colour.

Archer had pictured often enough, in the first impatient years, the scene of his return to
Paris; then the personal vision had faded, and he had simply tried to see the city as the setting
of Madame Olenska's life.  Sitting alone at night in his library, after the household had gone
to bed, he had evoked the radiant outbreak of spring down the avenues of horse-chestnuts, the
flowers and statues in the public gardens, the whiff of lilacs from the flower-carts, the majestic
roll of the river under the great bridges, and the life of art and study and pleasure that
filled each mighty artery to bursting.  Now the spectacle was before him in its glory, and
as he looked out on it he felt shy, old-fashioned, inadequate: a mere grey speck of a man compared
with the ruthless magnificent fellow he had dreamed of being....

Dallas's hand came down cheerily on his shoulder.  "Hullo, father: this is something like,
isn't it?"  They stood for a while looking out in silence, and then the young man continued:
"By the way, I've got a message for you: the Countess Olenska expects us both at half-past five."

He said it lightly, carelessly, as he might have imparted any casual item of information, such
as the hour at which their train was to leave for Florence the next evening.  Archer looked
at him, and thought he saw in his gay young eyes a gleam of his great-grandmother Mingott's malice.

"Oh, didn't I tell you?" Dallas pursued.  "Fanny made me swear to do three things while I was
in Paris: get her the score of the last Debussy songs, go to the Grand-Guignol and see Madame
Olenska.  You know she was awfully good to Fanny when Mr. Beaufort sent her over from Buenos
Ayres to the Assomption.  Fanny hadn't any friends in Paris, and Madame Olenska used to be
kind to her and trot her about on holidays. I believe she was a great friend of the first Mrs.
Beaufort's.  And she's our cousin, of course.  So I rang her up this morning, before I went
out, and told her you and I were here for two days and wanted to see her."

Archer continued to stare at him.  "You told her I was here?"

"Of course--why not?"  Dallas's eye brows went up whimsically.  Then, getting no answer, he
slipped his arm through his father's with a confidential pressure.

"I say, father: what was she like?"

Archer felt his colour rise under his son's unabashed gaze. In
vain he tried to talk with the Hohenzollern, the incomprehensible faith of failure - he tried
the facts to the contrary, to his inner feeling of Electors withdraw: in the sight of the open grave
breaks the self-assurance that feeling together. And now everything is different, which gave his
life value and content, both destroyed. It is a tragic paradox, but a moment of high psychological
truth and power, that looks at this moment, in which he all content of the ideal existence
to sink the feeling of existence itself, the mere impulse of life as such breaks forth in
him the more powerful. He clings to the very existence, when the only thing left to him, and he sought
only the life, without content and purpose, in a circle herumzujagen until it sinks in the
evening and dies. For yet he understands the power that confronts him, only as a physical ~ ~
Power, which he opposes his unbroken physical and unconditional will to live. The letter of the
Elector brings only the denouement. In the moment that the prince himself called the decision
feels that decision has already been taken. For now approaching him his destiny no more than
a dark force, against whom he is with all the powers of individual being and the individual
sense being made. He sees the violence, which he is subject, and this understanding is the
same as their free recognition. The contrast between self and world, as reflected elsewhere
in the seal Kleist and developed, now a new theme has come to bear. Kleist was the hero, whatsoever,
whether passive or active conceived of this opposition, whether it be against the "establishment
the world, "brought her passionate or subdued, but one train together: that they were against
the world as a thoroughly mysterious and irrational thought. They could give her captive with her mind
and her in silent acquiescence subordinate, but the absolute clarity and certainty of the Interior
remained always the external, fate and the world remained as dull and uncomprehended powers that
define the people face. The Prince of Homburg, however, represents a new relationship of the
basic moments her grow out of which unlike the tragic and the tragic decision. Here, too, is the individual
world of feeling against an "objective" power, but this power is even a different order than
previously, at. It is not the objective of being and, but of obligation which the individual is
determined and binding. This objectivity, however, can be overcome otherwise than by the individual,
recognizing that free and in truly understand its necessary basis. "In strict law fetter the
views of the slave mentality, the disdain ": where the demand which was made to the will of the individual,
in this will itself is included because it has lost its external coercive power.

And not only in the Prince of Homburg, but also in the elector takes a analog, although opposing development
and the antagonism of these two internal movements, it is clear only the actual dramatic basic process.
As the Elector first confronts the prince - he is nothing but the
guardian and the executor of the objective laws will.

Only the pure content of the law itself, only on its unconditional and unyielding demand is
the question, - not from the subject to which the Claim was made. But now, in his talk with
Natalie, is revealed at once, such as in this purely objective attitude, in this judge's decision,
which was made without regard to the person ~ ~ also the right and lower right has been infringed
the free personality ~ ~.


He went back to the hotel, where he and Dallas were to meet; and together they walked again
across the Place de la Concorde and over the bridge that leads to the Chamber of Deputies.

Dallas, unconscious of what was going on in his father's mind, was talking excitedly and abundantly
of Versailles.  He had had but one previous glimpse of it, during a holiday trip in which he
had tried to pack all the sights he had been deprived of when he had had to go with the family
to Switzerland; and tumultuous enthusiasm and cock-sure criticism tripped each other up on
his lips.

As Archer listened, his sense of inadequacy and inexpressiveness increased.  The boy was not
insensitive, he knew; but he had the facility and self-confidence that came of looking at fate
not as a master but as an equal.  "That's it: they feel equal to things--they know their way
about," he mused, thinking of his son as the spokesman of the new generation which had swept
away all the old landmarks, and with them the sign-posts and the danger-signal.

Suddenly Dallas stopped short, grasping his father's arm.  "Oh, by Jove," he exclaimed.

They had come out into the great tree-planted space before the Invalides.  The dome of Mansart
floated ethereally above the budding trees and the long grey front of the building: drawing
up into itself all the rays of afternoon light, it hung there like the visible symbol of the
race's glory.

Archer knew that Madame Olenska lived in a square near one of the avenues radiating from the
Invalides; and he had pictured the quarter as quiet and almost obscure, forgetting the central
splendour that lit it up.  Now, by some queer process of association, that golden light became
for him the pervading illumination in which she lived.  For nearly thirty years, her life--of
which he knew so strangely little--had been spent in this rich atmosphere that he already felt
to be too dense and yet too stimulating for his lungs.  He thought of the theatres she must
have been to, the pictures she must have looked at, the sober and splendid old houses she must
have frequented, the people she must have talked with, the incessant stir of ideas, curiosities,
images and associations thrown out by an intensely social race in a setting of immemorial manners;
and suddenly he remembered the young Frenchman who had once said to him:  "Ah, good conversation--there
is nothing like it, is there?"

Archer had not seen M. Riviere, or heard of him, for nearly thirty years; and that fact gave
the measure of his ignorance of Madame Olenska's existence.  More than half a lifetime divided
them, and she had spent the long interval among people he did not know, in a society he but
faintly guessed at, in conditions he would never wholly understand.  During that time he had
been living with his youthful memory of her; but she had doubtless had other and more tangible
companionship.  Perhaps she too had kept her memory of him as something apart; but if she had,
it must have been like a relic in a small dim chapel, where there was not time to pray every
day....

They had crossed the Place des Invalides, and were walking down one of the thoroughfares flanking
the building.  It was a quiet quarter, after all, in spite of its splendour and its history;
and the fact gave one an idea of the riches Paris had to draw on, since such scenes as this
were left to the few and the indifferent. He loved to learn at any cost and always tried to help. Its clear
ruling enabled him to any damaged area in the life of another immediately be overlooked. The curious
question came up in Arnold, how Wolmut against élass and would have behaved the violence of
the monastery. Since that night, under the chestnut tree was passed in rain, he had not ceased
to consider themselves accountable to the and to contend in the world.
  On one of the upper balconies, which hung well
above the rounded tops of the horse-chestnuts in the square, the awnings were still lowered,
as though the sun had just left it.

"I wonder which floor--?" Dallas conjectured; and moving toward the porte-cochere he put his
head into the porter's lodge, and came back to say:  "The fifth.  It must be the one with the
awnings."

Archer remained motionless, gazing at the upper windows as if the end of their pilgrimage had
been attained.

"I say, you know, it's nearly six," his son at length reminded him.

The father glanced away at an empty bench under the trees.