"Stop your chattering one moment, Ned, till I get in this little brook on the left, that is
creeping so softly into the bosom of the Mohawk. Oh, my children, it is an easy task to draw
these lines so as to convey a correct idea of forms and distances, but very difficult to imitate
the colouring of nature, the delicate touch of her skilful hand. How shall I represent the
freshness and purity that marks the youth of the year?--like childhood, Ned, smiling and promising,
and as yet unchanged by time."

"If not changed, not perfected by time, dear mother," said Edward, kissing his mother. His
manner expressed a mixture of admiration and tenderness that went to her heart.

"You have spoiled my picture, Ned," she said, "I cannot make another straight line. Come, Julia,
take up the port-folio, and we will return to the inn."

                  *       *       *       *       *

We hope our readers will not complain that we have not kept good faith with them, if we have
been tempted to loiter longer than we promised on the banks of the Mohawk. To reward them for
their patience (if perchance they have exercised that difficult virtue, without availing themselves
of the skipping right--the readers' inalienable right) we shall make but one stage of it from
Palatine to Oneida, not once halting at any of the beautiful grounds, waterfalls, or villages,
that intervene.

It was mid-day, and a hot day too, when our travellers entered this Indian town, which presents
a striking aspect, situated as it is in the heart of a cultivated and civilized country.

Huts are planted irregularly at some distance from the road, in fields overgrown with rank
grass. Half-naked Indians, yelling and hallooing, were riding to and fro without saddles or
bridles; on horses that looked as wild as themselves. Some were stretched along the road-side,
in a state of brutal intoxication; others were lying under the shadows of the noblest patriarchs
of their woods, showing their patent right to indolence as lords of the creation, while their
women and girls were sitting around them, busily making baskets and brooms. On the green were
groupes of men shooting arrows at a mark, playing at jack-straws, football, and the various
games of skill and chance by which the savage drives away ennui--that demon that persecutes
most fiercely at the extremes of the human condition.

"One might almost fancy here," said Mr. Sackville, "that the march of time had been stayed,
and the land spell-bound, by some mighty magician. The log-huts of these poor Indians are as
rude structures as the bark wigwams of their forefathers, and these rich lands are a complete
waste, except where we see here and there a little patch of corn or potatoes. The savages certainly
evince their faith in the traditionary saying that 'the Great Spirit gave a plough to the white
man, and a bow and arrow to the Indian.'"

"And there," said Mrs. Sackville, pointing to some women who were hoeing, "there is an illustration
of another of their proverbs--'men were made for war and hunting, and squaws and hedge-hogs
to scratch the ground.'"

Edward interrupted the conversation, to beg his father to stop in the village long enough to
allow him time to look into the interior of some of the huts. While Mr. Sackville hesitated
whether to incur the delay necessary to afford this gratification to his son, the driver announced
that his off-leader had lost his shoe, and asked leave to stop at a blacksmith's to have it
replaced.

This request was readily granted; and while Mrs. Sackville entered into some conversation with
the blacksmith, who was a white man, Edward bounded over a fence and across a field, towards
a hut which was scarcely perceptible except by a smoke that rose from it, and curled through
the branches of a lofty oak which stood before it.

As he drew near the hut, he heard a low voice, broken by sobs; he paused for a moment, and
then cautiously and softly advanced, till he came so near as to hear distinctly what was said,
and to see enough, through a small aperture where the clay had fallen away from the logs, to
prevent his proceeding farther, and to excite his curiosity to its highest pitch. An old Indian
woman was sitting on the hearth-stone, her arms folded, and her blanket wrapped close around
her. It appeared that she had seated herself there for the purpose of watching an Indian cake
that was baking on a shovel before the fire; but her attention had been so abstracted, that
the cake was burnt to a cinder. Her face and person were withered by age; but her eye, as if
lit up by an undying spark, retained a wild brightness, and was steadfastly fixed on two young
persons who stood before her, apparently too much occupied with their own emotion to notice
her observation of them. The one was a young girl, dressed in a riding habit and Leghorn travelling
bonnet. Edward was not very well situated for accurate observation; but though he was at the
first glance deceived by the brilliancy of the girl's colour, heightened as it was by the excitement
of the moment, his unpracticed eye soon detected unequivocal marks of the Indian race, accompanied
and softened by traits of fairer blood. A young Indian stood beside her, who, as Edward fancied,
had a certain air of dignity and heroism, that characterised a warrior chief;--still there
was something in his attitude and motions, that bespoke the habits of civilized life. His dress,
too, was a singular mixture of the European and Indian costumes. He wore a jacket with long
sleeves made of deer skin, and closely fitted to his arms and breast. He had a mantle of blue
broad cloth, lined with crimson, made long and full, hanging over one shoulder, and confined
at the waist by a wampum belt. On a table beside him was lying a cap, like the military undress
cap of a British officer, with a plume of black feathers tinged with crimson, and attached
to the cap by a silver arrow.

The conversation between him and the girl was in French, and made up of ejaculations and vehement
protestations, from which Edward could not at first gather any thing intelligible to him. The
girl wept excessively; the Indian's passion seemed too powerful for such an expression.

"You promise," he said, "Felice; but our old men say the winds are not more changing than a
woman's mind."

"Others may change; I cannot, Nahatton; you know I would not leave you if I could help it."

"Could help it! can your father's right control nature's law? Oh, Felice!" he added, smiting
his breast, "that which I feel for you is like the fires from the sun--the hurricane from the
south--the tide of the ocean;--I cannot resist it."

"Nahatton! Nahatton! you know I will return to you."

"Let me place this around your neck then," said he, detaching from his own a chain made of
porcupine quills, and curiously woven. "My mother made it. She said it was a charm, and would
keep me true to my own people. I wore it in France, and I have returned to my tribe."

"Not about my neck, Nahatton," said Felice, as he raised his hands to clasp the chain; "it
looks too savage--bind it on my arm.----Why do you hesitate?" she asked, as she stood with
her arm extended, and her sleeve pushed up.

"It looks too savage! Already ashamed of your mother's blood! Oh, there is poison in your veins!"
and as he said this he broke the chain, threw it down, and crushed it under his foot.

"Oh, Nahatton, I did not mean that;--I am not ashamed of my indian blood--I will make you any
promise--I will swear, on my knees I will swear to return to you."

"Swear then upon this," said he; and he took from his bosom a silver crucifix, and offered
it to her lips.

At this moment the old woman, who, as they spoke in French, only understood as much as she
could interpret from their gestures, rose, and darting towards them, she laid her hand on the
crucifix. "No, no, Felice; swear not!" she said; "the oath will be written there," and she
pointed upward, "when you have broken and forgotten it."

Edward, in the intensity of his interest in the scene, had forgotten the necessity of secrecy.
He carelessly leaned his arm on some rails that had been placed against the hut, one of them
fell; the party within started and looked around them, and Edward instinctively retreated.
If he went as swiftly as the wind, and once or twice thought he heard an arrow whirring through
the air behind him, we hope our readers will impute it to the excited state of his imagination,
and not deem him a coward, 'even upon instinct.'

"Just in time, Edward, my son," said Mr. Sackville, who was standing by the carriage in which
the rest of the party were already seated; "but what in the world ails you? you look as wild
as if you had met a bear up in the wood there."

"Oh, you would look wild too, father, if you had seen and heard what I have. Oh, mother! Oh,
Julia! you never will believe what I have to tell you."

"I have something to tell you, too, Mr. Edward," said his mother; "and as you are out of breath,
and out of your wits, I will tell my story first, which I assure you is quite a romantic little
tale to pick up by the way-side."

"Well, do be quick, mother, if you please, for what I have to say is so wonderful."

"No doubt; each one always thinks his own wonder the most wonderful. But I will not try your
patience any longer. Do you remember our speculating on an empty carriage, which we saw drawn
up under a tree with a man standing by it, about half a mile back?"

"Yes, very well--but what of that, mother?"

"It was an idle inquiry about that carriage of the good-natured communicative blacksmith that
led to the story, which I am going to tell you. It seems that carriage is to convey a young
woman to New-York, whence she sails for France."

"Oh, I saw her--I saw her," exclaimed Edward. "It can be none other."

"Well, Edward," said Mrs. Sackville, "I will give place to you; for I see you are in such a
state of fermentation, that I am afraid your story will evaporate in exclamations, while I
am telling mine."

Edward thus relieved from restriction, proceeded to recount with the animation of an eye-witness,
all he had seen and heard. His audience listened to him with the most flattering attention,
and at the conclusion, repaid him with exclamations, that proved they were adequately impressed
with the extraordinary scene he had witnessed.

Julia wished he had noticed whether the chief (for thus he had chosen throughout his narrative
to designate his hero) wore moccasins or shoes, and whether his legs below his mantle, were
bare, or covered with leggins. She thought too, he might just have staid to see whether the
girl made the vow or not: and his mother congratulated him that the Indians had not executed
summary justice on him, and shot him flying for a spy.

"My story," said Mrs. Sackville, "will serve, Ned, as a sequel to yours, or rather, an explanation
of it. It seems that this young girl, who is a Miss Bernard, had left the carriage when we
saw it, on the pretence of going to take leave of her mother's sister, who is doubtless the
old woman you saw. You were so fortunate as to discover her real errand. She is the daughter
of a Frenchman--Rodolph Bernard. His family was noble and rich: they and their fortunes were
sacrificed in the convulsions of the French revolution, and Bernard alone escaped and reached
America, with nothing but his life. It appears from my blacksmith's story, that young Bernard
had a good deal of spirit and enterprise, and more education than most of the young nobles
of that time. I wish you to observe, my children, that knowledge is a treasure not impaired
by a change of circumstances, but an immutable good in every extreme of fortune. Bernard remained
in New-York for a year or two, and subsisted by teaching French to some Americans, and mathematics
to his own countrymen. He was then employed by a company of French gentlemen, to explore the
western part of this State, then a wilderness, and to furnish them such information as should
enable them to make an advantageous purchase of the government. This was not quite thirty years
ago: and then the cultivated country and beautiful villages through which we have passed, were
for the most part a trackless wilderness.

"At a wigwam in Oneida, where he had been compelled to ask for such hospitality as it afforded,
he was seized with the fever of the country that usually attacked strangers. For weeks and
months he was nursed by an indian girl, famed among her people for her skill in such remedies
as their native wilds supply. You know, that in the history of the early periods of all ages,
we find the healing art assigned to women. You will remember, Ned, in your favorite old ballads,
many a kill or cure, performed by cruel or tender leeches.

"Whether it was the indian maid's skill in medicine, that prevailed over the disease at last,
or her devoted kindness, it might be difficult to determine; probably, Bernard thought the
latter; for though she was, as my narrator's tradition says, 'an uncouth maiden to look upon,'
he declared his love to her, and asked her hand of her father. The father consented, but not
till after some delay, nor till he had ascertained that Bernard's rank entitled him to wed
the daughter of a distinguished chief. She was an only child too, and she was heir to enough
land within this Oneida reservation, to make a principality.

"The Frenchman understood how to manage it. His ties to his own country were broken. All his
affections and interests were concentrated here. He has been a good husband and father--so
indulgent as to permit his wife on ordinary occasions, to wear her indian dress, to which it
seems she has a bigoted attachment. His children are well educated: and, Ned, our blacksmith
thinks, that your heroine Felice, would be a perfect beauty, if she had such hair as your sister's,
and the olive tinge could be washed out of her skin.

"Bernard, since the late reverses in France, has returned there, and recovered an immense property
which had been sequestered by Napoleon.

"Last year his family received dispatches from him, by your 'chief,' Ned--who, if not in reality
a chief, is the son of a distinguished sachem of the Seneca tribe, which is located some where
on the shores of Lake Erie. The old Seneca chief was converted to the Romish religion, by a
Catholic missionary, who persuaded him to resign his son into his hands, to be educated a priest.

"It appears that neither European intercourse, nor the strict discipline of a catholic school,
have overcome the young man's preference of the wild and lawless life of his tribe. As I said,
on his return from France, he brought letters from Bernard to his family, and here he has played
successfully the part of Othello the Moor, with this young Desdemona; and the blacksmith thinks
that Bernard will play the enraged father to the life, as it has been his declared resolution
from his daughter's birth, that she should not wed an indian.

"For the rest of my story, it is explained by what you have witnessed, Edward. The Seneca youth
has visited his people, and returned here just as Felice is on the eve of departure for France,
in compliance with her father's requisition. As to the future, whether she will remain constant
to her lover, as we are not seers, we cannot predict--we can only guess."

