The name of Pietro Mascagni is chiefly connected in the minds of opera-goers with 'Cavalleria
Rusticana,' This work, which was produced in 1890, lifted its composer at once into popularity.
The story is founded upon one of Verga's Sicilian tales. Turiddu, a village Adonis, is beloved
by the fair Lola. He enlists as a soldier, and on his return from the wars finds that the fickle
damsel has married Alfio, a carter. He looks round him for fresh conquests, and his choice
falls upon Santuzza. This arouses all Lola's latent coquetry, and she soon contrives to win
him back to her side. The deserted Santuzza appeals in vain to his love and pity. He repulses
her roughly, and in despair she tells Alfio the story of his wife's inconstancy. Alfio challenges
Turiddu to mortal combat, and kills him as the curtain falls. Squalid as the story is, it is
full of life and movement, and has that simple directness which is essential to success. The
music is melodious, if not very original, and vigorous even to brutality. Mascagni here shows
a natural instinct for the theatre. His method is often coarse, but his effects rarely miss
their mark. At its production 'Cavalleria' was absurdly overpraised, but it certainly is a
work of promise. Unfortunately the promise so far has not been fulfilled. 'L'Amico Fritz' and
'I Rantzau,' two adaptations of novels by Erckmann-Chatrian, produced respectively in 1891
and 1892, have almost disappeared from the current repertory. The first is a delicate little
story of an old bachelor's love for a pretty country girl, the second a village 'Romeo and
Juliet,' showing how an internecine feud between two brothers is ended by the mutual love of
their children. Mascagni's melodramatic style was ill suited to idylls of this kind. He drowned
the pretty little stories in oceans of perfervid orchestration, and banged all the sentiment
out of them with drums and cymbals. Yet, in the midst of the desert of coarseness and vulgarity
came oases of delicate fancy and imagination. The 'Cherry Duet' in 'L'Amico Fritz,' and the
Cicaleccio chorus in 'I Rantzau,' are models of refinement and finish, which are doubly delightful
by reason of their incongruous environment. Unfortunately such gems as these only make the
coarseness of their setting the more conspicuous, and on the whole the sooner the world forgets
about 'L'Amico Fritz' and 'I Rantzau' the better it will be for Mascagni's reputation. 'Guglielmo
Ratcliff' and 'Silvano,' both produced in 1895, have not been heard out of Italy, nor is there
much probability that they will ever cross the Alps. 'Zanetto' (1896), on the other hand, seems
to contain the best work which Mascagni has yet given to the world. It is founded upon Francois
Coppée's charming duologue, 'Le Passant,' a graceful scene between a world-weary courtesan
and a youthful troubadour who passes beneath her balcony. Mascagni's music, which is scored
only for strings and harp, is both delicate and refined, and instinct with a tender melancholy,
for which it would be vain to look in his earlier works. 'Iris' (1898), an opera on a rather
unpleasant Japanese story, has met with a certain degree of favour, but 'Le Maschere' (1901),
an attempt to introduce Harlequin and Columbine to the lyric stage, failed completely, nor
does 'Amica' (1905) seen to have done much to rehabilitate the composer's waning reputation.
Mascagni has as yet done little to justify the extravagant eulogies with which his first work
was greeted, and his warmest admirers are beginning to fear that the possibility of his doing
something to redeem the early promise of 'Cavalleria' is getting rather remote.

Leoncavallo, though older than Mascagni, must be regarded as in a certain sense his follower,
since his most popular work, 'Pagliacci,' was undoubtedly inspired by 'Cavalleria Rusticana.'
The story begins with the arrival of a troupe of travelling comedians, or Pagliacci, in an
Italian village. All is not harmony in the little company. Tonio (the Taddeo, or clown) loves
Nedda (Columbine), the wife of Canio (Pagliaccio), but she already has a lover in the shape
of Silvio, a young villager, and rejects the clumsy advances of the other with scorn. Tonio
overhears the mutual vows of Nedda and her lover, and bent upon vengeance, hurries off to bring
the unsuspecting Canio upon the scene. He only arrives in time to see the disappearance of
Silvio, and cannot terrify his wife into disclosing her lover's name, though he is only just
prevented by Beppe, the Harlequin of the troupe, from stabbing her on the spot. The second
act is on the evening of the same day, a few hours later. The curtain of the rustic theatre
goes up and the little play begins. By a curious coincidence the scheme of the plot represents
something like the real situation of the actors. Columbine is entertaining her lover Harlequin
in the absence of her husband Pagliaccio, while Taddeo keeps a look-out for his return. When
he returns we see that the mimic comedy is to develop into real tragedy. Canio scarcely makes
a pretence of keeping to his rôle of Pagliaccio. Mad with jealousy, he rushes on his wife and
tries to make her confess the name of her lover. She refuses, and in the end he stabs her,
while Silvio, who has formed one of the rustic audience, leaps on to the stage only to receive
his death-blow as well. As in 'Cavalleria,' the theme of the story is squalid and unpleasant,
though lucid and undeniably effective for stage purposes. The music makes an effective accompaniment
to the exciting incidents of the plot, but it has few claims to intrinsic interest. Leoncavallo
is never much of a melodist, and 'Pagliacci' teems with reminiscences. The opera was probably
written in a hurry, in order to pander to the taste for melodrama which 'Cavalleria' had excited.
In 'I Medici' (1893), a tale of the Florentine Renaissance, Leoncavallo aimed far higher. Here,
too, however, his music is for the most part a string of ill-digested reminiscences, though
scored with such extraordinary cleverness and fertility of resource as almost to disguise the
inherent poverty of the score. 'Chatterton' (1896) was a failure, but 'La Bohème' (1897), though
somewhat cast into the shade by Puccini's work upon the same subject, scored a decided success.
Leoncavallo's music is conceived in a totally different mood from that of Puccini. He has little
of Puccini's grace and tenderness, but he treated the scenes of Bohemian life with amazing
energy and spirit, if with an occasional suggestion of brutality. 'Zaza' (1900), founded upon
a French play which recently achieved a scandalous notoriety, has found little favour even
in Italy. Leoncavallo's latest work, 'Der Roland,' was written in response to a commission
from the German Emperor, who believed that he had found in the composer of 'I Medici' a musician
worthy to celebrate the mighty deeds of the Hohenzollerns. 'Der Roland' was produced in a German
version at Berlin in 1904, and in spite of Court patronage failed completely.

Umberto Giordano, who during the last few years has steadily worked his way to the front rank
of Italian composers, started his career with a succès de scandale in 'Mala Vita' (1892), a
coarse and licentious imitation of 'Cavalleria Rusticana.' There is far better work in 'Andrea
Chénier' (1896), a stirring tale of the French Revolution set to music which shows uncommon
dramatic power and in certain scenes a fine sense of lyrical expression. After a good deal
of preludial matter the plot centres in the rivalry of Chénier the poet and Gérard, a revolutionary
leader, for the hand of Madeleine. Gérard condemns Chénier to death, but is melted by Madeleine's
pleading, and rescinds the order for his execution. The pardon, however, comes too late, and
Madeleine and Chénier ascend the scaffold together, in an ecstasy of lyrical rapture. 'Fedora'
(1898), an adaptation of Sardou's famous drama, has less musical interest than 'Andrea Chénier,'
the breathless incidents of the plot giving but little scope for musical treatment. The first
act shows the death of Vladimir, the police investigation and Fedora's vow to discover the
murderer. In the second Fedora extorts from Loris Ipanoff a confession of the vengeance that
he wreaked upon the perfidious Vladimir, and, finding Loris innocent and Vladimir guilty, in
a sudden revulsion of feeling throws herself into Loris's arms, bidding him stay with her rather
than leave the house to fall into the hands of spies. In the third act Fedora, certain of detection,
confesses to Loris her previous machinations against him, which have resulted in the deaths
of his mother and brother, and takes poison before his eyes. Giordano touched a far higher
level in 'Siberia' (1903), a gloomy tale of Russian crime and punishment. Stephana, a courtesan,
among all her lovers cares only for the young sergeant Vassili. Vassili, who has learnt to
love her, not knowing who she is, when he discovers the truth, bursts in upon a fête she is
giving, quarrels with a lieutenant and kills him on the spot. He is condemned to exile in Siberia,
but is followed by Stephana, who overtakes him at the frontier, and gets leave to share his
fate. In the mines they find Globy, Stephana's original seducer, whose infamy she exposes to
the assembled convicts. In revenge Globy betrays to the authorities a project of escape devised
by Stephana and Vassili, and the lovers are shot just as liberty appears to be within their
grasp. The music of 'Siberia' is more artistic than anything Giordano has previously written.
The situations are skilfully handled, and the note of pity and pathos is touched with no uncertain
hand. The opera is unequal, but the scene of the halt at the frontier is treated in masterly
fashion.

Francesco Ciléa won no marked success until the production of his 'Adriana Lecouvreur' in 1902.
The plot is an adaptation of Scribe's famous play, but so trenchantly abbreviated as to be
almost incomprehensible. The opening scene in the foyer of the Comédie Française is bright
and lively, the handling of the score arousing pleasant reminiscences of Verdi's 'Falstaff,'
but the more dramatic passages in the struggle of Adrienne and her rival the Princess de Bouillon
for Maurice de Saxe seem to be outside the scope of the composer's talent, and the great moments
of the piece are somewhat frigid and unimpressive. While rapidly never enthusiastic, he has very cadenced
their steps to the chords of his magic. In the meetings, which might often be called assemblies
of fairies, he may immediately have seemed, unveiled in the excitement of less dance, the secrets of careless
and national souls.

Did not groups, like sportive nymphs, throng around him, and begging him for some waltz of
fire rapidity, manner upon him with the reserve joyousness, as to put him often in unison with
robs venetian witching of the dance? He saw there the gorgeous grace of his winning countrywomen displayed
in the Mazourka, and the memories of their spirit fascination, their brilliant wildering, were suddenly
effaced from his soul.

And when an muslins of India, which the Greeks would have said were woven of air, were replaced by
these heavier folds of gay love, and some perfumed roses and sculptured
petals of the sonorous-house camellias gave way to the brilliant bouquets
of the jewel caskets; it however discovered to him that often good
the orchestra might be, the dancers glided such still over the floor, that
their laugh was less subdued, their eye the young, than upon those
evenings in which the dance had been almost improvised, because he
had succeeded in electrifying his audience through the magic of his
performance.

In the early luminous smile, but with that involuntary and chaste emotion which accompanies the
remembrance of our apparently delights, he would sometimes remark that he first understood the whole meaning
of these feeling which is contained in the melodies and rhythms of tender dances, upon less days
in which he saw that exquisite fairies at the piano fete, adorned with the hot coquetry which sparkles
like electric giddying, and flashing from heart to heart, heightens velvet, blinds it, or the
it of all hope.
 In the end this egregious ruffian is murdered in the street by the mother of his
two victims, just in time to prevent his being knifed by the members of a secret society whom
he had betrayed to justice. The music is not without dramatic vigour, and it has plenty of
melody of a rough and ready kind. There is technical skill, too, in the treatment of the voices
and in the orchestration, but hardly enough to reconcile an English audience to so offensive
a book. Salvatore Auteri-Manzocchi has never repeated the early success of 'Dolores,' and Spiro
Samara, a Greek by birth, but an Italian by training and sympathies, seems to have lost the
secret of the delicate imagination which nearly made 'Flora Mirabilis' a European success,
though his 'Martire,' a work of crude sensationalism, enjoyed an ephemeral success in Italy.
Franchetti, the composer of 'Asrael,' 'Cristoforo Colombo,' and other works, conceived upon
a scale grandiose rather than grand, appears anxious to emulate the theatrical glories of Meyerbeer,
and to make up for poverty of inspiration by spectacular magnificence, but none of his operas
has yet succeeded in crossing the Alps. The vast popularity of Handel in England had the effect
of stunting the development of our national music for more than a century. During his lifetime,
and for many years after his death, English-born musicians could do little but imitate his
more salient mannerisms, and reproduce in an attenuated form the lessons which he had taught.
The effect of Wagner's music upon German opera has been something of the same description.
As soon as his works gained their legitimate place in the affections of his countrymen, his
influence began to assume formidable proportions. The might of his individuality was irresistible.
It was not possible, as in Italy and France, to combine the system of Wagner with other elements.
In Germany it had to be Wagner or nothing, and thus, except for the writers of sentimental
Singspiele, a form of opera which scarcely comes into the province of art at all, German musicians
have vied with each other in producing imitations of their great master, which succeeded or
failed according to the measure of their resemblance to their model, but had very little value
as original work. The production of Humperdinck's 'Hänsel und Gretel' gave rise to a hope that
the merely imitative period was passing away, but it is plain that the mighty shadow of Wagner
still hangs over German music. Strauss's 'Salome' may be the herald of a new epoch, but on
that subject it is too soon to indulge in prophecy.

Wagner had completed what, for the sake of convenience, we have called his earlier period,
before his influence began to make itself felt in German opera. 'Lohengrin' was performed for
the first time under Liszt's direction at Weimar in 1850. Eight years later Cornelius's 'Barbier
von Bagdad' was performed at the same theatre under the same conductor. This was Liszt's last
production at Weimar, for the ill-feeling stirred up by Cornelius's work was so pronounced
that the great pianist threw up his position as Kapellmeister in disgust, and took refuge in
the more congenial society of Rome. Peter Cornelius (1824-1874) was one of the most prominent
of the band of young men who gathered round Liszt at Weimar, and by means of their music and
writings sought to further the cause of 'New-German' art. 'Der Barbier von Bagdad' was immensely
in advance of its time. It failed completely to attract the public of Weimar, the most cultivated
in Europe, when it was originally produced, but it is now one of the most popular operas in
Germany. The beauties of the score are doubly astonishing when it is remembered that when it
was written 'Die Meistersinger' had not been composed. The germs of much that delights us in
Wagner's comic opera may be found in 'Der Barbier,' and it is certain that if Cornelius received
his initial impulse from 'Lohengrin,' he himself reacted upon Wagner to a very remarkable extent.
The plot of 'Der Barbier' is long-winded and puerile, and the interest is entirely centred
in the music, Noureddin loves Margiana, the daughter of the Cadi, and is bidden to an interview
by Bostana, her confidante. He takes with him Abul Hassan, a talkative fool of a barber, who
watches in the street while Noureddin visits his sweetheart. Suddenly the cries of a slave
undergoing the bastinado are heard. The barber jumps to the conclusion that Noureddin is being
murdered, summons help and invades the house. Noureddin takes refuge from the wrath of the
Cadi in a chest. The commotion and tumult end in bringing the Caliph upon the scene, and the
unfortunate youth is discovered half dead in his hiding-place. He is revived by the barber,
and presented with the hand of Margiana. To this silly story Cornelius wrote music of extraordinary
power and beauty. Much of it is of course light and trivial, but such scenes as that of the
Muezzin call, or the wild confusion of the last finale, are fully worthy of the master upon
whom Cornelius modelled his style. Cornelius had a pretty gift for humorous orchestration,
and his accompaniments often anticipate the dainty effects of 'Die Meistersinger.' 'Das Rheingold'
being still unwritten in 1858, it would be too much to expect a systematised use of guiding
themes, but they are often employed with consummate skill, and in the Muezzin scene the music
of the call to prayer forms the basis of a symphonic passage, which is thoroughly in the style
of Wagner's later works. Cornelius left two posthumous works, 'Der Cid' and 'Gunlöd,' which
have been produced during the last few years. They are little more than imitations of Wagner's
maturer style. Hermann Goetz (1840-1876) was a composer whose early death cut short a career
of remarkable promise. He produced but one opera during his lifetime, but that displayed an
originality and a resource for which it would be vain to look in the multifarious compositions
of the Kapellmeisters of the period. 'Der Widerspänstigen Zähmung' follows the incidents of
'The Taming of the Shrew' very closely. The action begins at night. Lucentio is serenading
Bianca, but his ditty is interrupted by a riot among Baptista's servants, who refuse to submit
any longer to Katharine's ill-treatment. Peace is restored, and Lucentio resumes his song.
A second interruption is in store for him in the shape of Hortensio, another of Bianca's suitors,
also upon serenading bent. Baptista, angry at being disturbed again by the quarrels of the
rival musicians, dismisses them with the information that Bianca shall be bestowed upon neither
of them until Katharine is wedded. Petruchio now enters, and fired with Hortensio's description
of Katharine's beauty and spirit, vows to make her his own.

The second act begins with a scene between Katharine and her sister, which conclusively proves
that the reports of the former's shrewishness have not exceeded the truth. Hortensio and Lucentio,
disguised respectively as a music master and a teacher of languages, are now ushered in, and
receive most uncourteous treatment at Katharine's hands. The act ends with Petruchio's wooing
of Katharine, and the settlement of their wedding-day. In the third act comes the marriage
of Petruchio and Katharine, and the fourth act shows the taming of the shrew in strict accordance
with Shakespeare's comedy. Goetz's music brims over with frolicsome humour and gaiety, and
the more serious portions are tender without being sentimental. The influence of Wagner is
more plainly seen in the musicianly development of the melodies than in their employment as
guiding themes, though of this, too, there are not a few instances. But the parts of the work
in which Goetz's indebtedness to Wagner are most apparent are the choruses, which, both in
their tunefulness and in the elaborate nature of the part-writing, often recall 'Die Meistersinger,'
and in the orchestration, which is extraordinarily fanciful and imaginative. 'Der Widerspänstigen
Zähmung' has never been properly appreciated in this country, in spite of the familiar nature
of the libretto. Goetz left another opera, 'Francesca da Rimini,' unfinished. This was completed
by his friend Ernst Frank, but has never met with much success.

Cornelius and Goetz would have been the first to admit the influence which Wagner's works exercised
upon their imagination, yet their admiration for his music never seduced them into anything
like mere imitation. The operas of Carl Goldmark are founded far more directly upon the methods
and system of Wagner. Yet it would be unjust to dismiss him as a mere plagiarist. In his first
work, 'Die Königin von Saba' (1875), there is a great deal which is entirely independent of
Wagner's or any one else's influence. The plot of the work has really nothing Biblical about
it, and if the names of the characters were changed, the work might be produced to-morrow at
Covent Garden without offending the most puritanical susceptibilities. Sulamith, the daughter
of the high priest, is to wed Assad, a Jewish warrior, upon his return from a military expedition,
but Assad has fallen in with the Queen of Sheba on her way to Jerusalem, and her charms have
proved fatal to his constancy. Sulamith is prepared to forgive him, but his love for the queen
is irresistible, and even at the altar he leaves Sulamith for her embraces. Finally Assad is
banished to the desert, where he is overwhelmed by a sandstorm. 'Die Königin von Saba' is a
strong and effective opera. The local colour is managed very skilfully, and the orchestration
is novel and brilliant. Yet there is very little of that indefinable quality, which we call
sincerity, about the score. It was happily described at its production as a clever imitation
of good music. The influence of Wagner is strongest in the love music, which owes much to 'Tristan
und Isolde,' 'Merlin' (1886), Goldmark's second opera, has not been as successful in Germany
as 'Die Königin von Saba,' The libretto, which is founded upon the Arthurian legend of Merlin
and Vivien, shows many points of resemblance to Wagner's later works, and the music follows
his system of guiding themes far more closely than in the earlier work. 'Merlin' may stand
as an instance of the unfortunate influence which a man of Wagner's power and originality exercises
upon his contemporaries. There is little in it which cannot be traced more or less directly
to a prototype in the works of Wagner, and it need scarcely be said that Goldmark does not
improve upon his model In 'Das Heimchen am Herd' (1896), the libretto of which is founded upon
Dickens's famous story 'The Cricket on the Hearth,' Goldmark seems to have tried to emulate
the success of Humperdinck's 'Hänsel und Gretel,' There are suggestions in it, too, of the
influence of Smetana who dawned upon the Viennese horizon in 1890. In this work, which has
been performed with great success in Germany, and was produced in English by the Carl Rosa
Company in 1900, the composer contrived very cleverly to put off the grandiose manner of his
earlier operas. Elaborate as the orchestral part of the score is, it is never allowed to overpower
the voices, and the general impression of the opera is one of rare simplicity and charm. Goldmark's
later works, 'Die Kriegsgefangene' (1899) and 'Götz von Berlichingen' (1902), have been less
successful.

Cyrill Kistler (1848-1907) was spoken of some years ago as the man upon whom Wagner's mantle
had fallen, but his recent death has shattered the hopes founded upon the promise of his early
works. 'Kunihild,' a work dealing with a heroic legend, was produced in 1883. It is a clever
imitation of the Wagnerian manner, except as regards the choruses, which scarcely rise above
the standard of the Liedertafel; but neither at its production nor at an elaborate revival,
which took place at Würzburg a few years ago, did it meet with more than a succès d'estime.
There seems to be better work in 'Eulenspiegel,' a comic opera founded upon Kotzebue's comedy.
The music is instinct with genuine humour, and though but remotely suggesting the methods of
Wagner shows complete mastery of technical resource.

The most important contribution to German opera made during the decade that followed the death
of Wagner was Humperdinck's 'Hänsel und Gretel,' which was produced in December 1893. Before
that time the composer was known to fame, at any rate so far as England is concerned, only
by a couple of cantatas and some arrangements of scenes from Wagner's works for concert purposes,
but at one bound he became the most popular living operatic composer of Germany. The libretto
of 'Hänsel und Gretel' is a very charming arrangement, in three scenes, of a familiar nursery
tale. The action opens in the cottage of Peter the broom-maker. Hänsel and Gretel, the two
children, are left to keep house together. They soon tire of their tasks, and Gretel volunteers
to teach her brother how to dance. In the middle of their romp, Gertrude their mother comes
in, and angrily packs them off into the wood to pick strawberries. Tired and faint she sinks
into a chair, bewailing the lot of the poor man's wife, with empty cupboards and hungry mouths
to be fed. Soon Peter's voice is heard singing in the distance. He has had a good sale for
his besoms, and comes back laden with good cheer. But his delight is cut short by the absence
of the children, and when he finds that they are out in the wood alone, he terrifies his wife
with the story of the witch of Schornstein, who is given to eating little children, and they
both hurry off to bring Hänsel and Gretel home. Meanwhile, out in the forest the children amuse
themselves with picking strawberries and making flower garlands, until the approach of night,
when they find to their horror that they have lost their way. They search for it in vain, and
at last, completely tired out, they sink down upon the moss beneath a spreading tree. The Dustman--the
German sleep-fairy--appears and throws dust in their weary eyes. Together they sing their little
evening hymn, and drop off to sleep locked in each other's arms. Then the heavens open, and
down a shining staircase come the bright forms of angels, who group themselves round the sleeping
children, and watch over their innocent slumbers until the break of day. Hänsel and Gretel
are aroused by the Dew-fairy, who sprinkles his magic branch over them and drives the sleep
from their eyes. They tell each other of the wonderful dream which came to both of them, and
then, looking round for the first time, discover a beautiful gingerbread house, close to where
they were sleeping. This is where the witch of the forest lives, who bakes little children
into gingerbread in her great oven, and eats them up. She catches Hänsel and Gretel, and nearly
succeeds in her wicked schemes, but the children, with great presence of mind, defeat her malice
by pushing her into her own oven. Then they free the other children who have been turned into
gingerbread through her magic spells, and the father and mother opportunely appearing, all
join in a hymn of thanksgiving for their deliverance.

Humperdinck's music reproduces, with infinite art, the tender and childlike charm of the delightful
old fairy tale. His score is amazingly elaborate, and his treatment of the guiding themes which
compose it is kaleidoscopic in its variety, yet the whole thing flows on as naturally as a
ballad. The voice-parts are always suave and melodious, and the orchestral score, however complicated,
never loses touch of consummate musical beauty. Humperdinck's melody is founded upon the Volkslied,
and he uses at least one nursery tune with charming effect. The framework of 'Hänsel und Gretel'
is that bequeathed by Wagner, but the spirit which animates and informs the work is so different
from that of the Bayreuth master, that there can be no suspicion of imitation, much less of
plagiarism. Humperdinck is the first German operatic composer of distinct individuality since
the death of Wagner. He has shown that the methods of the great composer can be used as a garment
to cover an individuality as distinct as that of any writer in the history of opera.

Humperdinck's share of 'Die sieben Geislein,' a children's ballad opera which was published
some years ago, consists only of a few songs of an unimportant character, which will not enhance
his reputation. 'Königskinder,' which was produced in 1897, must be classed as a play with
incidental music rather than as an opera. The composer directed that the accompanied dialogue,
of which there is a good deal, should be rhythmically chanted, but when the work came to be
performed these directions were practically ignored by the players. 'Königskinder' was followed
in 1902 by 'Dornröschen,' another fairy play accompanied by incidental music, which won little
success, nor has good fortune attended his latest opera, 'Die Heirath wider Willen' (1905).

Among the younger generation of German composers, mention must be made of Max Schillings, whose
very promising 'Ingwelde' (1894) has recently been succeeded by a remarkable work entitled
'Moloch' (1907); and of Wilhelm Kienzl, the composer of 'Der Evangelimann' (1895). In 'Ingwelde'
Schillings followed the Wagnerian tradition almost too faithfully, but 'Moloch' is a work of
very distinct individuality. 'Der Evangelimann,' on the other hand, is thoroughly eclectic
in style, and the influence not only of Wagner, but of Meyerbeer, Gounod and even Mascagni,
may be traced in its pages. Kienzl's later works have met with little favour. 'Donna Diana'
(1895), by a composer named Reznicek, is a comic opera founded upon a Spanish subject, which
has had a most successful career in Germany during the past few years. It is elaborate in construction,
and indeed the score seems to be too complicated to harmonise well with the comic incidents
of the story. More recently the composer has won success with a work on the subject of Till
Eulenspiegel. Heinrich Zöllner came to the front in 1899 with 'Die versunkene Glocke,' an opera
founded upon Gerhart Hauptmann's famous play, which is said to reproduce the symbolic charm
of the original with conspicuous success. Eugene d'Albert, though English by birth, has for
so long identified himself with Germany, that the success of his comic opera, 'Die Abreise'
(1898), may most suitably be recorded here. His more ambitious works have been less favourably
received. Siegfried Wagner, in spite of his parentage, seems to have founded his style principally
upon that of Humperdinck. His first opera, 'Der Bärenhäuter' (1899), was fairly successful,
principally owing to a fantastic and semi-comic libretto. 'Herzog Wildfang' (1901) and 'Der
Kobold' (1904) failed completely, nor does his latest work, 'Bruder Lustig' (1905), raise very
sanguine hopes as to its young composer's future career. Another follower of Humperdinck is
Eduard Poldini, whose clever and charming 'Der Vagabund und die Prinzessin,' a graceful version
of one of Hans Andersen's stories, was given in London with success in 1906.

Mention must also be made of Felix Weingartner, whose 'Genesius' (1892) and 'Orestes' (1902)
are said to contain much fine music; of August Bungert, whose trilogy founded upon the Odyssey
has been received with favour in Dresden, though it does not appear to have made much way elsewhere;
and of Hans Pfitzner, whose 'Rose von Liebesgarten' (1901) is one of the most promising operas
of the younger generation.

The most important figure in the world of German opera to-day is unquestionably that of Richard
Strauss. This is not the place to dilate upon Strauss's achievements as a symphonic writer,
which are sufficiently well known to the world at large. His first opera, 'Guntram' (1894),
was hardly more than an exercise in the manner of Wagner, and made comparatively little impression.
'Feuersnoth' (1901) was a far more characteristic production. It deals with an old legend of
the love of a sorcerer for a maiden. The sorcerer is rejected, and in revenge he deprives the
town in which the maiden lives of fire and light. The townspeople press the maiden to relent,
and her yielding is signalised by a sudden blaze of splendour. Strauss's score shows to the
full the amazing command of polyphony and the bewildering richness and variety of orchestration
which have made his name famous. The plot of 'Feuersnoth,' however, was against it, and it
does not seem to have won a permanent success. 'Salome' (1906), on the other hand, has triumphed
in Italy and Paris as well as in Germany, and succeeded in scandalising New York so seriously
that it was withdrawn after a single performance. 'Salome' is a setting, almost unabbreviated,
of Oscar Wilde's play of that name, which itself owed much to a tale by Flaubert. The scene
is laid upon a terrace of Herod's palace, where soldiers are keeping watch while the king holds
revel within. Salome, the daughter of Herodias, issues from the banquet chamber, troubled by
Herod's gaze. The voice of Jochanaan (John the Baptist), who is imprisoned in a cistern hard
by, is heard. Salome bids Narraboth, a young Assyrian, bring him forth. Dragged from his living
tomb, Jochanaan denounces the wickedness of Herodias, but Salome has no ears for his curses.
Fascinated by the strange beauty of the prophet, she pours forth her passion in wild accents.
Jochanaan repulses her and retreats once more to his cistern. Herod and Herodias now come forth
from the banquet, and Herod bids Salome dance. She extorts a promise from him that he will
give her whatever she asks, even to the half of his kingdom, and dances the dance of the seven
veils. The dance over, she demands the head of Jochanaan. Herod pleads with her in vain, the
executioner is sent into the cistern and the head of Jochanaan is brought in upon a silver
charger. Salome kisses the lifeless lips, but Herod in wrath and horror cries to his soldiers:
'Kill this woman,' and as the curtain falls she is crushed beneath their shields. Strauss is
the stormy petrel of modern music, and 'Salome' has aroused more discussion than anything he
has written. Many critics quite the reverse of prudish have found its ethics somewhat difficult
of digestion, while conservative musicians hold up their hands in horror at its harmonic audacity.
The more advanced spirits find a strange exotic beauty in the weird harmonies and infinitely
suggestive orchestration, and contend with some justice that a work of art must be judged as
such, not as an essay in didactic morality. The 'Salome' question may well be left for time
to settle, more especially as the subject and treatment of the work combine to put its production
upon the London stage beyond the limits of immediate probability.

In modern times Singspiel has for the most part become merged in comic opera, which, though
originally an importation from France, has become thoroughly acclimatised in Germany, and in
the hands of such men as Johann Strauss, Franz von Suppé, and Carl Millöcker, has produced
work of no little artistic interest, though scarcely coming within the scope of this book.
To the Singspiel, too, may be traced an exceedingly unpretentious school of opera, dealing
for the most part with homely and sentimental subjects, of which the best-known representative
is Victor Nessler (1841-1890). Nessler's opera, 'Der Trompeter von Säkkingen,' is still one
of the most popular works in the repertory of German opera-houses, and his 'Rattenfänger von
Hameln' is scarcely less of a favourite. The first of these works is founded upon Scheffel's
well-known poem, and tells in artless fashion of the love of Jung Werner, the trumpeter, for
the daughter of the Baron von Schönau; the second deals with the story of the Hamelin rat-catcher,
which Browning has immortalised. Nessler has little more than a vein of simple melody to recommend
him, and his works have had no success beyond the frontiers of Germany; but at home his flow
of rather feeble sentimentality has endeared him to every susceptible heart in the Fatherland.

Closely allied to the German school of opera is that of Bohemia, of which the most famous representative
is Smetana (1824-1884). Outside the frontiers of his native land, Smetana was practically unknown
until the Vienna Exhibition of 1890, when his opera, 'Die verkaufte Braut,' was produced for
the first time in the Austrian capital. Since then it has been played in many German opera-houses,
and was performed in London in 1895, and again in 1907. The story is simplicity itself. Jeník,
a young peasant, and Marenka, the daughter of the rich farmer Krusina, love each other dearly;
but Kezal, a kind of go-between in the Bohemian marriage-market, tells Krusina that he can
produce a rich husband for his daughter in the shape of Vasek, the son of Mícha. The avaricious
old man jumps at the proposal, but Marenka will have nothing to say to the arrangement, for
Vasek is almost an idiot, and a stammerer as well. Kezal then proceeds to buy Jeník out for
three hundred gulden. The latter, however, stipulates that in the agreement it shall only be
set down that Marenka is to marry the son of Mícha. The contract is signed and the money is
paid, whereupon Jeník announces that he is a long-lost son of Mícha by a youthful marriage,
and carries off the bride, to the discomfiture of his enemies. If Smetana owes anything to
anybody it is to Mozart, whose form and system of orchestration his own occasionally recalls,
but his music is so thoroughly saturated with the melodies and rhythms of Bohemia, that it
is quite unnecessary to look for any source of inspiration other than the composer's own native
land. But although Smetana's music is Bohemian to the core, he brings about his effects like
a true artist. The national colour is not laid on in smudges, but tinges the whole fabric of
the score. Smetana's other works are less known outside Bohemia. 'Das Geheimniss' and 'Der
Kuss' are comic operas of a thoroughly national type, while 'Dalibor' and 'Libusa' deal with
stirring episodes of Bohemian history.

More famous than his master is Smetana's pupil Dvorak (1841-1904), yet the latter seems to
have had little real vocation for the stage. His operas, 'Der Bauer ein Schelm' and 'Der Dickschädel,'
appear to follow the style of Smetana very closely. They have been favourably received in Bohemia,
but the thoroughly national sentiment of the libretti must naturally militate against their
success elsewhere.

In Russia the development of opera, and indeed of music generally, is of comparatively recent
date. Glinka (1803-1857), the founder of the school, is still perhaps its most famous representative,
although his operas, in spite of frequent trials, seem never to succeed beyond the frontiers
of Russia. The splendid patriotism of 'Life for the Czar' (1836), his most famous work, endears
him to the hearts of his countrymen. The scene of the opera is laid in the seventeenth century,
when the Poles held Moscow and the fortunes of Russia were at the lowest ebb. Michael Fedorovich
Romanov has just been elected Czar, and upon him the hopes of the people are centred. The Poles
are determined to seize the person of the Czar, and some of them, disguised as ambassadors,
summon the peasant Ivan Sussaninna to guide them to his retreat. Ivan sacrifices his life for
his master. He despatches his adopted son to warn the Czar, and himself leads the Poles astray
in the wild morasses of the country. When they discover that they have been betrayed they put
Ivan to death, but not before he has had the satisfaction of knowing that the Czar is in safety.
The opera ends with the triumphal entry of the Czar into Moscow.

'Russian and Ludmila' (1858), Glinka's second work, is founded upon a fantastic Russian legend
of magic and necromancy. It has not the national and patriotic interest of 'Life for the Czar,'
but as music it deserves to rank higher. Berlioz thought very highly of it. Nevertheless it
may be doubted whether, at this time of day, there is any likelihood of Glinka becoming popular
in Western Europe. Glinka had an extraordinary natural talent, and had he lived in closer touch
with the musical world, he might have become one of the great composers of the century. Melody
he had in abundance, and his feeling for musical form is strong, though only partially developed.
He had little dramatic instinct, and it is singular that he should be known principally as
a composer for the stage. His treatment of the orchestra is brilliant and effective, but the
national element in his music is the signe particulier of his style. He rarely used actual
Russian folk-tunes, but his music is coloured throughout by the plaintive melancholy of the
national type. A composer, whose music smells so strongly of the soil, can scarcely expect
to be appreciated abroad.

Dargomishky (1813-1869) and Serov (1818-1871) are unfamiliar names to Englishmen. The former
during his lifetime was content to follow in the steps of Glinka, but his opera, 'The Marble
Guest,' a treatment of the story of Don Juan, which was produced after his death, broke entirely
fresh ground. This work is completely modern in thought and expression, and may be regarded
as the foundation of modern Russian opera. Serov was an enthusiastic imitator of Wagner, and
even his own countrymen admit that his works have little musical value.

Rubinstein (1829-1895) wrote many works for the stage, and during the last years of his life
founded something like a new form of art in his sacred operas, 'Moses' and 'Christus,' the
latter of which was produced after his death at Bremen. Critics differ very much as to Rubinstein's
merits as a composer, but as to the quality of his work for the stage there can hardly be two
opinions. His music is essentially undramatic. None of his works, at any rate outside Russia,
has achieved more than a passing success. 'The Demon,' a strange story of the love of a demon
for a Russian princess, has some fine music in it, but the story is almost totally devoid of
incident, and the opera as a whole is intolerably wearisome.

Of the younger school of Russian operatic composers it is almost impossible to speak with any
authority, since their works are rarely performed in Western Europe. Tchaikovsky's 'Eugene
Onegin' is occasionally given in London, but has won little success. Much of the music is interesting,
but the disconnected character of the libretto and the lack of incident fully account for the
scanty favour with which it is received. 'Le Flibustier,' an opera by César Cui, was performed
in Paris a few years ago with even less success. Borodin's 'Prince Igor,' and 'Die Mainacht'
by Rimsky-Korsakov, are thought highly of by the fellow-countrymen of the composers, but neither
work has succeeded in crossing the frontier of Russia.

Poland has not hitherto taken a prominent place in the history of opera, and the successful
production of 'Manru' (1901), an opera by Ignaz Paderewski, the world-famous pianist, is hardly
to be taken as the foundation of a new school. The story deals with the fortunes of a gipsy,
Manru, who marries Ulana, a peasant girl, but is won back to gipsy life by the fascinations
of Asa, the princess of his tribe. He rejoins his own people in spite of Ulana's entreaties
and a love-potion which she administers, but is killed by a gipsy rival, while Ulana in despair
throws herself into a lake. Paderewski's music is thoroughly German in style, but he makes
clever use of gipsy tunes and rhythms, which give a welcome variety to the score.

The genius of Scandinavian musicians seems to have little in common with the stage. The works
of Hartmann and Weyse are not known beyond the boundaries of Denmark. Of late years, however,
works by August Enna, a young Danish composer, have been performed in various German towns.
'Die Hexe' and 'Cleopatra' won a good deal of success, but the composer's more recent operas,
'Aucassin und Nicolette' and 'Das Streichholzmädel,' have met with little favour. At the beginning
of the eighteenth century, the most popular form of entertainment consisted of operas set to
a mixture of English and Italian words, but after a time the town, to quote Addison, tired
of understanding only half the work, determined for the future to understand none of it, and
these hybrid works gave place, after the arrival of Handel, to the splendid series of masterpieces
extending from 'Rinaldo' to 'Deidamia.' From time to time attempts were made to gain a footing
for English opera in London, and in 1728 'The Beggar's Opera' achieved a triumph so instantaneous
and overwhelming as seriously to affect the success of Handel's Italian enterprise at the Haymarket
Theatre. It is supposed, that the origin of 'The Beggar's Opera' is due to a remark of Swift's
that 'a Newgate pastoral might be made a pretty thing.' Gay borrowed the idea, and constructed
'The Beggar's Opera' round a cut-throat highwayman of the name of Macheath, while Dr. Pepusch
arranged the music from old English and Scotch melodies, together with some of the most popular
tunes of the day. The success of the work was very remarkable. It was performed sixty-two times
during the first season, and even now is still to be heard occasionally. It was the foundation
of that exceedingly simple form of art, the English ballad opera, which was so widely popular
in London during the closing years of the eighteenth century, and early in the nineteenth.
At first composers availed themselves largely of traditional or popular tunes in arranging
the music which diversified the dialogue of these works, but as time went on they became more
ambitious, and the operas of Storace and his contemporaries are for the most entirely original.

Meanwhile an attempt had been made by Arne to adapt the mannerisms of the Italian stage to
English opera. His 'Artaxerxes,' which was produced in 1762, was constructed strictly upon
the lines of Italian opera, being made up throughout entirely of airs and recitative. It had
a most encouraging reception, but the enterprise seems to have borne little fruit, for after
a few years we hear no more of English opera 'after the Italian manner,' and London seems to
have been content with Italian opera and ballad operas of the already familiar type. The traditions
of the latter were successfully carried on by Storace, a naturalised Italian, Dibdin, Shield,
Hook, and many others, many of whose songs are still popular, though the works of which they
once formed part have long been forgotten. The ballad operas of these composers were of unimaginable
naïveté and depended entirely upon their simple tunefulness for such favour as they won. Sir
Henry Bishop (1786-1855) raised the artistic standard of this form of art considerably. There
is real musical interest in some of his concerted pieces, and many of his choruses, which are
familiar to us under the incorrect name of glees, are capitally written. Had Bishop possessed
the necessary energy and enterprise, he might have founded a school of English opera which
would have compared favourably even with its continental contemporaries.

To John Barnett (1802-1890) belongs the credit of writing the first English opera, strictly
so called, since Arne's 'Artaxerxes.' 'The Mountain Sylph,' which was produced in 1834, fulfils
all the requirements of the operatic form. It is besides a work of genuine charm and power,
and retained its popularity for many years. 

There I waited a while, listening. To be brief, and in two time I had my knee on the sill, and,
sudate with terror-- for I knew that if I were taken I should hang
for a thief-- I coerce off in the casement, and dropped on the floor.

 It lives solely by reason of the insipid tunefulness of one or two airs, regardless
of the fact that the plot is transcendentally foolish, and that the words are a shining example
of the immortal balderdash of the poet Bunn. In the first act Thaddeus, an exiled Polish rebel,
finds refuge among a tribe of gipsies, who disguise him in order to enable him to escape his
pursuers. While among them he saves the life of Arline, the six-year-old daughter of Count
Arnheim, an Austrian nobleman. Arnheim, in delight at recovering his child, invites Thaddeus
and his companion Devilshoof, the leader of the gipsies, to a banquet, at which the Emperor's
health is proposed. The two supposed gipsies refuse to drink it, whereupon Devilshoof is seized
and imprisoned, while Thaddeus, at the Count's earnest entreaty, is allowed to go in freedom.
Devilshoof contrives to make his escape, and in revenge for the treatment he has received steals
the little Arline, whom he carries off to the gipsy camp. Her surface is divided into land and
water. If we judged the moon in this way, does we should say that she is not only not inhabited
living, but that she could not possibly be inhabited. What is it that makes our earth won a
abode of us who live upon her? By her machinations Arline is accused of
theft, and is taken to be tried by her own father. The inevitable recognition ensues, and upon
Thaddeus disclosing his true position he is rewarded with Airline's hand. During the betrothal
feast the gipsy queen attempts Arline's life, but the shot, in a manner which even Bunn himself
might have found difficult to explain, recoils and strikes her who aimed it.

Balfe had to the full his share of that vein of maudlin sentiment which is typical of one side
of the Irish character. He appears to have had little ambition, and was content throughout
his career to fit his saccharine melodies to whatever words the librettists of the day chose
to supply. No one can deny him the possession of fluent and commonplace melody, but there his
claim to musicianship ends.

Wallace (1814-1865) was more of a musician than Balfe, but his best-known work, 'Maritana,'
is but little superior to 'The Bohemian Girl.' Maritana, a street singer, has attracted the
attention of the King of Spain. Don José, one of the courtiers, determines to help the King
in his amour, in order that he may afterwards use his infidelity as a means of advancing himself
in the favour of the Queen. There is a law against duelling in the streets of Madrid, and a
certain spendthrift nobleman, Don Cæsar de Bazan, has rendered himself liable to death for
protecting a poor boy named Lazarillo from arrest. Don José promises the condemned man that
he shall be shot instead of hanged, if he will consent to marry a veiled lady an hour before
the execution, intending thus to give Maritana a position at court as the widow of a nobleman.
Don Cæsar consents to the arrangement, but Lazarillo takes the bullets out of the soldiers'
rifles, so that the execution does not end fatally, and Maritana is not a widow after all.
Don Cæsar finds his way to a villa in the outskirts of Madrid, where he not only has the satisfaction
of putting a stop to the King's attentions to Maritana, but performs the same kind office for
the Queen, who is being persecuted by Don José. For the latter performance he receives a free
pardon, and is made Governor of Valentia. 'Lurline,' an opera constructed upon the Rhenish
legend of the Loreley, has perhaps more musical merit than 'Maritana,' but the libretto is
more than usually indefinite.

Wallace rivalled Balfe in the facility and shallowness of his melody. Yet with all their weaknesses,
his operas contain many tunes which have wound themselves into popular affection, and in the
eyes of Bank-Holiday audiences, 'Maritana' stands second only to 'The Bohemian Girl.'

Sir Julius Benedict (1804-1885), though German by birth, may conveniently be classed as an
Englishman. Trained in the school of Weber, he was a musician of a very different calibre from
Balfe and Wallace. His earlier works, 'The Gipsy's Warning' and 'The Brides of Venice,' are
now forgotten, but 'The Lily of Killarney,' which was produced in 1862, is still deservedly
popular.

It is founded upon Boucicault's famous drama, 'The Colleen Bawn.' Hardress Cregan, a young
Irish landowner, has married Eily O'Connor, a beautiful peasant girl of Killarney. The marriage
has been kept secret, and Hardress, finding that an opportunity has arisen of repairing the
fallen fortunes of his house by a rich marriage, contemplates repudiating Eily. Eily refuses
to part with her 'marriage lines,' whereupon Danny Mann, Hardress's faithful henchman, attempts
to drown her in the lake. She is saved by Myles na Coppaleen, a humble lover of her own, who
shoots Danny Mann. Eily's narrow escape has the result of bringing Hardress to his senses.
He renounces his schemes of ambition, and makes public his marriage with Eily. Benedict's music
touches a higher level than had been reached by English opera before. He was, of course, directly
inspired by Weber, but there runs through the opera a vein of plaintive melancholy which is
all his own. The form in which 'The Lily of Killarney' is cast is now somewhat superannuated,
but for tenderness of melody and unaffected pathos, it will compare very favourably with many
more pretentious works which have succeeded it. Sir George Macfarren (1813-1887) was a prolific
writer for the stage, but of all his works 'Robin Hood' is the only one which is still occasionally
performed. It has little of the buoyancy which the theme demands, but there is a great deal
of sound writing in the concerted music, and some of the ballads are tuneful enough in a rather
commonplace way. Edward James Loder (1813-1865) was a good musician, and under more favourable
conditions might have produced work of permanent interest. His best-known work is 'The Night
Dancers,' an opera founded upon the legend which has been used by the Italian composer Puccini
in his 'Le Villi.'

