In his Journal for this day, and amid all his anxieties, he found time to note down one of
his curious visionary cosmographical reflections.  This return to a region of storms and heavy
seas reminded him of the long months he had spent in the balmy weather and calm waters of his
discovery; in which facts he found a confirmation of the theological idea that the Eden, or
Paradise, of earth was "at the end of the Orient, because it is a most temperate place.  So
that these lands which he had now discovered are at the end of the Orient."  Reflections such
as these, which abound in his writings, ought in themselves to be a sufficient condemnation
of those who have endeavoured to prove that Columbus was a man of profound cosmographical learning
and of a scientific mind.  A man who would believe that he had discovered the Orient because
in the place where he had been he had found calm weather, and because the theologians said
that the Garden of Eden must be in the Orient since it is a temperate place, would believe
anything.

Late on Thursday night, when he anchored again in the harbour of San Lorenzo at Santa Maria,
a man hailed them from the rocks, and asked them not to go away.  Presently a boat containing
five sailors, two priests, and a notary put off from the beach; and they asked for a guarantee
of security in order that they might treat with the Admiral.  They slept on board that night,
and in the morning asked him to show them his authority from the Spanish Sovereigns, which
the Admiral did, understanding that they had asked for this formality in order to save their
dignity.  He showed them his general letter from the King and Queen of Spain, addressed to
"Princes and Lords of High Degree"; and being satisfied with this they went ashore and released
the Admiral's people, from whom he learned that what had been done had been done by command
of the King of Portugal, and that he had issued an order to the Governors of all the Portuguese
islands that if Columbus landed there on his way home he was to be taken prisoner.

He sailed again on Sunday, February 24th, encountering heavy winds and seas, which troubled
him greatly with fears lest some disaster should happen at the eleventh hour to interfere with
his, triumph.  On Sunday, March 3rd, the wind rose to the force of a hurricane, and, on a sudden
gust of violent wind splitting all the sails, the unhappy crew gathered together again and
drew more lots and made more vows.  This time the pilgrimage was to be to the shrine of Santa
Maria at Huelva, the pilgrim to go as before in his shirt; and the lot fell to the Admiral.
The rest of them made a vow to fast on the next Saturday on bread and water; but as they all
thought it extremely unlikely that by that time they would be in need of any bodily sustenance
the sacrifice could hardly have been a great one.  They scudded along under bare poles and
in a heavy cross sea all that night; but at dawn on Monday they saw land ahead of them, which
Columbus recognised as the rock of Cintra at Lisbon; and at Lisbon sure enough they landed
some time during the morning.  As soon as they were inside the river the people came flocking
down with stories of the gale and of all the wrecks that there had been on the coast.  Columbus
hurried away from the excited crowds to write a letter to the King of Portugal, asking him
for a safe conduct to Spain, and assuring him that he had come from the Indies, and not from
any of the forbidden regions of Guinea.

The next day brought a visit from no less a person than Bartholomew Diaz. Columbus had probably
met him before in 1486, when Diaz had been a distinguished man and Columbus a man not distinguished;
but now things were changed.  Diaz ordered Columbus to come on board his small vessel in order
to go and report himself to the King's officers; but Columbus replied that he was the Admiral
of the Sovereigns of Castile, "that he did not render such account to such persons," and that
he declined to leave his ship.  Diaz then ordered him to send the captain of the Nina; but
Columbus refused to send either the captain or any other person, and otherwise gave himself
airs as the Admiral of the Ocean Seas.  Diaz then moderated his requests, and merely asked
Columbus to show him his letter of authority, which Columbus did; and then Diaz went away and
brought back with him the captain of the Portuguese royal yacht, who came in great state on
board the shabby little Nina, with kettle-drums and trumpets and pipes, and placed himself
at the disposal of Columbus.  It is a curious moment, this, in which the two great discoverers
of their time, Diaz and Columbus, meet for an hour on the deck of a forty-ton caravel; a curious
thing to consider that they who had performed such great feats of skill and bravery, one to
discover the southernmost point of the old world and the other to voyage across an uncharted
ocean to the discovery of an entirely new world, could find nothing better to talk about than
their respective ranks and glories; and found no more interesting subject of discussion than
the exact amount of state and privilege which should be accorded to each.

During the day or two in which Columbus waited in the port crowds of people came down from
Lisbon to see the little Nina, which was an object of much admiration and astonishment; to
see the Indians also, at whom they greatly marvelled.  It was probably at this time that the
letter addressed to Luis de Santangel, containing the first official account of the voyage,
was despatched.

                                   *
                                 *****
                                   *
                                   *

     "Sir: As I am sure you will be pleased at the great victory which
     the Lord has given me in my voyage, I write this to inform you that
     in twenty' days I arrived in the Indies with the squadron which
     their Majesties had placed under my command.  There I discovered
     many islands, inhabited by a numerous population, and took
     possession of them for their Highnesses, with public ceremony and
     the royal flag displayed, without molestation.

     "The first that I discovered I named San Salvador, in remembrance of
     that Almighty Power which had so miraculously bestowed them.  The
     Indians call it Guanahani.  To the second I assigned the name of
     Santa Marie de Conception; to the third that of Fernandina; to the
     fourth that of Isabella; to the fifth Juana; and so on, to every one
     a new name.  And as I found no towns or villages by the
     seaside, excepting some small settlements, with the people of which
     I could not communicate because they all ran away, I continued my
     course to the westward, thinking I should not fail to find some
     large town and cities.  After having coasted many leagues without
     finding any signs of them, and seeing that the coast took me to the
     northward, where I did not wish to go, as the winter was already set
     in, I considered it best to follow the coast to the south and the
     wind being also scant, I determined to lose no more time, and
     therefore returned to a certain port, from whence I sent two
     messengers into the country to ascertain whether there was any king
     there or any large city.

     "They travelled for three days, finding an infinite number of small
     settlements and an innumerable population, but nothing like a city:
     on which account--they returned.  I had tolerably well ascertained
     from some Indians whom I had taken that this land was only an
     island, so I followed the coast of it to the east 107 leagues, to
     its termination.  And about eighteen leagues from this cape, to the
     east, there was another island, to which I shortly gave the name of
     Espanola.  I went to it, and followed the north coast of it, as I
     had done that of Juana, for 178--[should be 188]--long leagues due
     east.

     "This island is very fertile, as well, indeed, as all the rest.  It
     possesses numerous harbours, far superior to any I know in Europe,
     and what is remarkable, plenty of large inlets.  The land is high,
     and contains many lofty ridges and some very high mountains, without
     comparison of the island of Centrefrey;--[Tenerife]--all of them
     very handsome and of different forms; all of them accessible and
     abounding in trees of a thousand kinds, high, and appearing as if
     they would reach the skies.  And I am assured that the latter never
     lose their fresh foliage, as far as I can understand, for I saw them
     as fresh and flourishing as those of Spain in the month of May.
     Some were in blossom, some bearing fruit, and others in other
     states, according to their nature.

     "The nightingale and a thousand kinds of birds enliven the woods
     with their song, in the month of November, wherever I went.  There
     are seven or eight kinds of palms, of various elegant forms, besides
     various other trees, fruits, and herbs.  The pines of this island
     are magnificent.  It has also extensive plains, honey, and a great
     variety of birds and fruits.  It has many metal mines, and a
     population innumerable.

     "Espanola is a wonderful island, with mountains, groves, plains, and
     the country generally beautiful and rich for planting and sowing,
     for rearing sheep and cattle of all kinds, and ready for towns and
     cities.  The harbours must be seen to be appreciated; rivers are
     plentiful and large and of excellent water; the greater part of them
     contain gold.  There is a great difference between the trees,
     fruits, and herbs of this island and those of Juana.  In this island
     there are many spices, and large mines of gold and other metals.

