We have learnt that the three great facts regarding subjective mind are its creative power,
its amenableness to suggestion, and its inability to work by any other than the deductive method.
This last is an exceedingly important point, for it implies that the action of the subjective
mind is in no way limited by precedent. The inductive method works on principles inferred from
an already existing pattern, and therefore at the best only produces the old thing in a new
shape. But the deductive method works according to the essence or spirit of the principle,
and does not depend on any previous concrete manifestation for its apprehension of it; and
this latter method of working must necessarily be that of the all-originating Mind, for since
there could be no prior existing pattern from which it could learn the principles of construction,
the want of a pattern would have prevented its creating anything had its method been inductive
instead of deductive. Thus by the necessity of the case the Universal Mind must act deductively,
that is, according to the law which has been found true of individual subjective mind. It is
thus not bound by any precedent, which means that its creative power is absolutely unlimited;
and since it is essentially subjective mind, and not objective mind, it is entirely amenable
to suggestion. Now it is an unavoidable inference from the identity of the law governing subjective
mind, whether in the individual or the universal, that just as we can by suggestion impress
a certain character of personality upon the individual subjective mind, so we can, and do,
upon the Universal Mind; and it is for this reason that I have drawn attention to the inherent
personal quality of pure spirit when contemplated in its most interior plane. It becomes, therefore,
the most important of all considerations with what character we invest the Universal Mind;
for since our relation to it is purely subjective it will infallibly bear to us exactly that
character which we impress upon it; in other words it will be to us exactly what we believe
it to be. This is simply a logical inference from the fact that, as subjective mind, our primary
relation to it can only be on the subjective plane, and indirectly our objective relations
must also spring from the same source. (Ps. xviii., 26, and II. Sam. xxii., 27), for the context
makes it clear that these words are addressed to the Divine Being. The spiritual kingdom is
within us, and as we realize it there so it becomes to us a reality. It is the unvarying law
of the subjective life that "as a man thinketh in his heart so is he," that is to say, his
inward subjective states are the only true reality, and what we call external realities are
only their objective correspondences. If we thoroughly realize the truth that the Universal
Mind must be to us exactly according to our conception of it, and that this relation is not
merely imaginary but by the law of subjective mind must be to us an actual fact and the foundation
of all other facts, then it is impossible to over-estimate the importance of the conception
of the Universal Mind which we adopt. To the uninstructed there is little or no choice: they
form a conception in accordance with the tradition they have received from others, and until
they have learnt to think for themselves, they have to abide by the results of that tradition:
for natural laws admit of no exceptions, and however faulty the traditional idea may be, its
acceptance will involve a corresponding reaction upon the Universal Mind, which will in turn
be reflected into the conscious mind and external life of the individual. But those who understand
the law of the subject will have no one but themselves to blame if they do not derive all possible
benefits from it.