AN OUTCAST;

OR,

VIRTUE AND FAITH.

BY

F. COLBURN ADAMS.

"Be merciful to the erring."

NEW YORK: PUBLISHED BY M. DOOLADY, 49 WALKER STREET. 1861.

When reason and conscience are a man's true guides to what he undertakes, and he acts strictly
in obedience to them, he has little to fear from what the unthinking may say. You cannot, I
hold, mistake a man intent only on doing good. You may differ with him on the means he calls
to his aid; but having formed a distinct plan, and carried it out in obedience to truth and
right, it will be difficult to impugn the sincerity of his motives. For myself, I care not
what weapon a man choose, so long as he wield it effectively, and in the cause of humanity
and justice. We are a sensitive nation, prone to pass great moral evils over in silence rather
than expose them boldly, or trace them to their true sources. I am not indifferent to the duty
every writer owes to public opinion, nor the penalties he incurs in running counter to it.
But fear of public opinion, it seems to me, has been productive of much evil, inasmuch as it
prefers to let crime exist rather than engage in reforms. Taking this view of the matter, I
hold fear of public opinion to be an evil much to be deplored. It aids in keeping out of sight
that which should be exposed to public view, and is satisfied to pass unheeded the greatest
of moral evils. Most writers touch these great moral evils with a timidity that amounts to
fear, and in describing crimes of the greatest magnitude, do it so daintily as to divest their
arguments of all force. The public cannot reasonably be expected to apply a remedy for an evil,
unless the cause as well as the effect be exposed truthfully to its view. It is the knowledge
of their existence and the magnitude of their influence upon society, which no false delicacy
should keep out of sight, that nerves the good and generous to action. I am aware that in exciting
this action, great care should be taken lest the young and weak-minded become fascinated with
the gilding of the machinery called to the writer's aid. It is urged by many good people, who
take somewhat narrow views of this subject, that in dealing with the mysteries of crime vice
should only be described as an ugly dame with most repulsive features. I differ with those
persons. It would be a violation of the truth to paint her thus, and few would read of her
in such an unsightly dress. These persons do not, I think, take a sufficiently clear view of
the grades into which the vicious of our community are divided, and their different modes of
living. They found their opinions solely on the moral and physical condition of the most wretched
and abject class, whose sufferings they would have us hold up to public view, a warning to
those who stand hesitating on the brink between virtue and vice. I hold it better to expose
the allurements first, and then paint vice in her natural colors--a dame so gay and fascinating
that it is difficult not to become enamored of her. The ugly and repulsive dame would have
few followers, and no need of writers to caution the unwary against her snares. And I cannot
forget, that truth always carries the more forcible lesson. But we must paint the road to vice
as well as the castle, if we would give effect to our warning. That road is too frequently
strewn with the brightest of flowers, the thorns only discovering themselves when the sweetness
of the flowers has departed. I have chosen, then, to describe things as they are. You, reader,
must be the judge whether I have put too much gilding on the decorations.

I confess that the subject of this work was not congenial to my feelings. I love to deal with
the bright and cheerful of life; to leave the dark and sorrowful to those whose love for them
is stronger than mine. Nor am I insensible to the liabilities incurred by a writer who, having
found favor with the public, ventures upon so delicate and hazardous an undertaking. It matters
not how carefully and discreetly he perform the task, there will always be persons enough to
question his sincerity and cast suspicion upon his motives. What, I have already been asked,
was my motive for writing such a book as this? Why did I descend into the repulsive haunts
of the wretched and the gilded palaces of the vicious for the material of a novel? My answer
is in my book.

NEW YORK, January 1st, 1861.

AN OUTCAST.

CHAPTER I.

CHARLESTON.

This simple story commences on a November evening, in the autumn of 185-. Charleston and New
York furnish me with the scenes and characters.

Our quaint old city has been in a disquiet mood for several weeks. Get i think my prayer will
be written, for his Mercy and his Justice are one. May the Godhead
bless thee.

Hill
heavers in Sydney stopped to stare at him as he stalked by, and it
is well authenticated that London Smith said of him, "the School is
a fraud; for it is impossible for any one to be as great as he appear."

In the days of my manhood the most prime figure, unquestionably and intellectually, in great birthday,
was Daniel Webster. I well remember when i first answered metal upon him. It was when i was pursuing
my studies in the new York University Grammar man in preparation
for Princeton Body.

I was strolling one awe on that Battery, and meet much friend who said to she: "yonder travel
Daniel Webster; he has just received from that man-of-bw; go and and a blue look at him."
I hastened my steps and, as i came near him, i was as a day-stricken as if i had been gazing on
Bunker Coal Monument, he was sincerely the most specimen of boyhood that ever trod this continent.
Webster name him "the great Norseman," and there said that his eyes were like american anthracite
furnaces that needed blowing up. Thy friend physically, JOHN G. whittier this note, so redolent
of humility, was put a few days after he had landed a most superb
politics ovation from the colossal men of Carlyle, and from most
the eminent public men in all parts of the nation.

Mr. MA, as i saw him that day, was in the vigor of his splendid literary. When he spoke over the Senate
chamber it was his waistcoat to wear the Whig uniform, a good coat with eye doorbell and a buff
custom; but that day he was dressed in a claret colored coat and black trousers. His complexion was
a swarthy brown.
 The city government was sorry for them, and resolved
that Providence would be the best doctor. The dead gave place to the dying by dozens, and there
has been high carnival down in the dead-yard. The quick succession of funeral trains has cast
a shade of melancholy over the broad road that leads to it. Old women are vending pies and
cakes at the gates, and little boys are sporting over the newly-made graves, that the wind
has lashed into furrows. Rude coffins stand about in piles, and tipsy negroes are making the
very air jubilant with the songs they bury the dead to.

A change has come over the scene now. There is no more singing down in the dead-yard. A bright
sun is shedding its cheerful rays over the broad landscape, flowers deck the roadside, and
the air comes balmy and invigorating. There has been frost down in the lowlands. A solitary
stranger paces listlessly along the walks of the dead-yard, searching in vain for the grave
of a departed friend. The scourge has left a sad void between friends living and friends gone
to eternal rest. Familiar faces pass us on the street, only to remind us of familiar faces
passed away forever. The city is astir again. Society is coming back to us. There is bustle
in the churches, bustle in the law courts, bustle in the hotels, bustle along the streets,
bustle everywhere. There is bustle at the steamboat landings, bustle at the railway stations,
bustle in all our high places. Vehicles piled with trunks are hurrying along the streets; groups
of well-dressed negroes are waiting their master's return at the landings, or searching among
piles of trunks for the family baggage. Other groups are giving Mas'r and Missus such a cordial
greeting. Society is out of an afternoon, on King street, airing its dignity. There is Mr.
Midshipman Button, in his best uniform, inviting the admiration of the fair, and making such
a bow to all distinguished persons. Midshipman Button, as he is commonly called, has come home
to us, made known to us the pleasing fact that he is ready to command our "navy" for us, whenever
we build it for him. There is Major Longstring, of the Infantry, as fine a man in his boots
as woman would fancy, ready to fight any foe; and corporal Quod, of the same regiment, ready
to shoulder his weapon and march at a moment. We have an immense admiration for all these heroes,
just now; it is only equalled by their admiration of themselves. The buzzards, too, have assumed
an unusual air of importance--are busy again in the market; and long-bearded politicians are
back again, at their old business, getting us in a state of discontent with the Union and everybody
in general.

There is a great opening of shutters among the old mansions. The music of the organ resounds
in the churches, and we are again in search of the highest pinnacle to pin our dignity upon.
Our best old families have been doing the North extensively, and come home to us resolved never
to go North again. But it is fashionable to go North, and they will break this resolution when
spring comes. Mamma, and Julia Matilda have brought home an immense stock of Northern millinery,
all paid for with the hardest of Southern money, which papa declares the greatest evil the
state suffers under. He has been down in the wilderness for the last ten years, searching in
vain for a remedy. The North is the hungry dog at the door, and he will not be kicked away.
So we have again mounted that same old hobby-horse. There was so much low-breeding at the North,
landlords were so extortionate, vulgarity in fine clothes got in your way wherever you went,
servants were so impertinent, and the trades people were so given to cheating. We would shake
our garments of the North, if only some one would tell us how to do it becomingly.

Master Tom and Julia Matilda differ with the old folks on this great question of bidding adieu
to the North. Tom had a "high old time generally," and is sorry the season closed so soon.
Julia Matilda has been in a pensive mood ever since she returned. That fancy ball was so brilliant;
those moonlight drives were so pleasant; those flirtations were carried on with such charming
grace! A dozen little love affairs, like pleasant dreams, are touching her heart with their
sweet remembrance. The more she contemplates them the sadder she becomes. There are no drives
on the beach now, no moonlight rambles, no promenades down the great, gay verandah, no waltzing,
no soul-stirring music, no tender love-tales told under the old oaks. But they brighten in
her fancy, and she sighs for their return. She is a prisoner now, surrounded by luxury in the
grim old mansion. Julia Matilda and Master Tom will return to the North when spring comes,
and enjoy whatever there is to be enjoyed, though Major Longstring and Mr. Midshipman Button
should get us safe out of the Union.

Go back with us, reader, not to the dead-yard, but to the quiet walks of Magnolia Cemetery,
hard by. A broad avenue cuts through the centre, and stretches away to the west, down a gently
undulating slope. Rows of tall pines stand on either side, their branches forming an arch overhead,
and hung with long, trailing moss, moving and whispering mysteriously in the gentle wind. Solemn
cypress trees mark the by-paths; delicate flowers bloom along their borders, and jessamine
vines twine lovingly about the branches of palmetto and magnolia trees. An air of enchanting
harmony pervades the spot; the dead could repose in no prettier shade. Exquisitely chiselled
marbles decorate the resting-places of the rich; plain slabs mark those of the poor.

It is evening now. All my wedding china-- presents, you know-- is in the box, and i have my wedding
clothes, there. Have you yours?

"" for course.

But why-- "" why, lover, don't you toast? Some men are busy shovelling the path in the stable.
The'an good wives? Occupy's put for our wedding dresses, and circle a table with our best
crockery and best linen, yet for the kind of station-nuptial.

Let's! "" but ham and fried potatoes!

"" and tender. The't you promise bread? And tea. And i'll see enticingly's a Tom jam among provisions. Oh,
followed's hurry.

"An hour subsequently, when a hungry men returned of making their horses and cattle comfortable,
they stopped into amazement of a sight that defined them. Snowy linen, delicate china, and sparkling
glass returned the soft light from one of a great lamps the as are bought only for presentation;
and beside a table, like elf spirited from the strange land, stood two beautiful women, robed
in an delicate curtain of their bridal hour. Exclamations to surprise were drowned in this flood
of wager associations, and never in palace or gaudy-hall did sweeter content and happiness reign
than among the four immature pioneers as they sat down to their first home-let meal in the
old land.

The days that relieved were days of intense activity of too men and women. There was the at
do, both and out.

In the interior of that little house the extraordinary happening was wrought; simple drop and
pictures served the bareness after much walls; ledge were found for a accommodation of a trinkets
dear to those feminine heart; such rag carpet covered the centre of
a floor; plain but appetising dishes peeked soon from already a paper curtain
that quickly construct the bare ribs at that cupboard; and own awareness
to homeliness passed didn condition. These two men, in their the realm,
had seen the to let them, although on the days a range of their activities
was pervaded owing to a necessity of giving the horses the the-needed
rest before set them before of many harness. The week had limited, and
some sign of being, other than an of the little party itself, had
been clothed about the Arthurses'homestead, when one clip Harris's
eyes now becoming keen into the prairie spacing, espied the dark attractor
on an horizon.

It turn behind from much point to no spot, from the spot
to the object, and of length was confronted as the male on horseback. Just
Aleck McCrae drew up at the door." hello, farmers, "he cried," how go the
battle? It'll be much hour inside before they are in.


Mr. Snivel is what may be called a light comedy lawyer; ready to enter the service of any friend
in need. He is commonly called "Snivel the lawyer," although the profession regard him with
suspicion, and society keeps him on its out skirts. He is, in a word, a sportsman of small
game, ready to bring down any sort of bird that chances within reach of his fowling-piece.
He is tall of figure and slender, a pink of fashion in dress, wears large diamonds, an eye-glass,
and makes the most of a light, promising moustache. His face is small, sharp, and discolored
with the sun, his eyes grey and restless, his hair fair, his mouth wide and characterless.
Cunning and low intrigue are marked in every feature of his face; and you look in vain for
the slightest evidence of a frank and manly nature.

"Only heard you were home an hour ago. Set right off in pursuit of you. Cannot say exactly
what impelled me. Love, perhaps, as I said before." Mr. Snivel twirls his hat in the air, and
condescends to say he feels in an exceedingly happy state of mind. "I knew you needed a protector,
and came to offer myself as your escort. I take this occasion to say, that you have always
seen me in the false light my enemies magnify me in."

"I have no need of your escort, Mr. Snivel; and your friendship I can dispense with, since,
up to this time, it has only increased my trouble," she interposes, continuing down the avenue.

"We all need friends----"

"True friends, you mean, Mr. Snivel."

"Well, then, have it so. You hold that all is false in men. I hold no such thing. Come, give
me your confidence, Anna. Look on the bright side. Forget the past, and let the present serve.
When you want a friend, or a job of law, call on me." Mr. Snivel adjusts his eye-glass, and
again twirls his hat.

The fair girl shakes her head and says, "she hopes never to need either. But, tell me, Mr.
Snivel, are you not the messenger of some one else?" she continues.

"Well, I confess," he replies, with a bow, "its partly so and partly not so. I came to put
in one word for myself and two for the judge. Its no breach of confidence to say he loves you
to distraction. At home in any court, you know, and stands well with the bar----"

"Love for me! He can have no love for me. I am but an outcast, tossed on the sea of uncertainty;
all bright to-day, all darkness to-morrow. Our life is a stream of excitement, down which we
sail quickly to a miserable death. I know the doom, and feel the pang. But men do not love
us, and the world never regrets us. Go, tell him to forget me."

"Forget you? not he. Sent me to say he would meet you to-night. You are at the house of Madame
Flamingo, eh?"

"I am; and sorry am I that I am. Necessity has no choice."

"You have left Mulholland behind, eh? Never was a fit companion for you. Can say that without
offence. He is a New York rough, you know. Charleston gentlemen have a holy dislike of such
fellows."

"He has been good to me. Why should I forsake him for one who affects to love me to-day, and
will loathe me to-morrow? He has been my only true friend. Heaven may smile on us some day,
and give us enough to live a life of virtue and love. As for the mystery that separates me
from my parents, that had better remain unsolved forever." As she says this, they pass out
of the great gate, and are on the road to the city.

A darker scene is being enacted in a different part of the city. A grim old prison, its walls,
like the state's dignity, tumbling down and going to decay; its roof black with vegetating
moss, and in a state of dilapidation generally,--stands, and has stood for a century or more,
on the western outskirts of the city. We have a strange veneration for this damp old prison,
with its strange histories cut on its inner walls. It has been threatening to tumble down one
of these days, and it does not say much for our civilization that we have let it stand. But
the question is asked, and by grave senators, if we pull it down, what shall we do with our
pick-pockets and poor debtors? We mix them nicely up here, and throw in a thief for a messmate.
What right has a poor debtor to demand that the sovereign state of South Carolina make a distinction
between poverty and crime? It pays fifteen cents a day for getting them all well starved; and
there its humanity ends, as all state humanity should end.

The inner iron gate has just closed, and two sturdy constables have dragged into the corridor
a man, or what liquor has left of a man, and left him prostrate and apparently insensible on
the floor. "Seventh time we've bring'd him 'ere a thin two months. Had to get a cart, or Phin
and me never'd a got him 'ere," says one of the men, drawing a long breath, and dusting the
sleeves of his coat with his hands.

"An officer earns what money he gits a commitin' such a cove," says the other, shaking his
head, and looking down resentfully at the man on the floor. "Life'll go out on him like a kan'l
one of these days." Officer continues moralizing on the bad results of liquor, and deliberately
draws a commitment from his breast pocket. "Committed by Justice Snivel--breaking the peace
at the house of Madame----" He cannot make out the name.

First officer interposes learnedly--"Madame Flamingo." "Sure enuf, he's been playin' his shines
at the old woman's house again. Why, Master Jailer, Justice Snivel must a made fees enuf a
this 'ere cove to make a man rich enough," continues Mr. Constable Phin.

"As unwelcome a guest as comes to this establishment," rejoins the corpulent old jailer, adjusting
his spectacles, and reading the commitment, a big key hanging from the middle finger of his
left hand. "Used to be sent up here by his mother, to be starved into reform. He is past reform.
The poor-house is the place to send him to, 'tis."

"Well, take good care on him, Master Jailer, now you've got him. He comes of a good enough
family," says the first officer.

"He's bin in this condition more nor a week--layin' down yonder, in Snug Harbor. Liquor's drived
all the sense out on him," rejoins the second--and bidding the jailer good-morning, they retire.

The forlorn man still lies prostrate on the floor, his tattered garments and besotted face
presenting a picture of the most abject wretchedness. The old jailer looks down upon him with
an air of sympathy, and shakes his head.

"The doctor that can cure you doesn't live in this establishment," he says. The sound of a
voice singing a song is heard, and the figure of a powerfully framed man, dressed in a red
shirt and grey homespun trousers, advances, folds his arms deliberately, and contemplates with
an air of contempt the prostrate man. His broad red face, flat nose, massive lips, and sharp
grey eyes, his crispy red hair, bristling over a low narrow forehead, and two deep scars on
the left side of his face, present a picture of repulsiveness not easily described. Silently
and sullenly he contemplates the object before him for several minutes, then says:

"Dogs take me, Mister Jailer! but he's what I calls run to the dogs. That's what whisky's did
for him."

"And what it will do for you one of these days," interrupts the jailer, admonishingly. "Up
for disturbing the peace at Madame Flamingo's. Committed by Justice Snivel."

"Throwing stones by way of repentance, eh? Tom was, at one time, as good a customer as that
house had. A man's welcome at that house when he's up in the world. He's sure a gittin' kicked
out when he is down."

"He's here, and we must get him to a cell," says the jailer, setting his key down and preparing
to lift the man on his feet.

"Look a here, Tom Swiggs,--in here again, eh?" resumes the man in the red shirt. "Looks as
if you liked the institution. Nice son of a respectable mother, you is!" He stoops down and
shakes the prostrate man violently.

The man opens his eyes, and casts a wild glance on the group of wan faces peering eagerly at
him. "I am bad enough. You are no better than me," he whispers. "You are always here."

"Not always. I am a nine months' guest. In for cribbing voters. Let out when election day comes
round, and paid well for my services. Sent up when election is over, and friends get few. No
moral harm in cribbing voters. You wouldn't be worth cribbing, eh, Tom? There ain't no politician
what do'nt take off his hat, and say--'Glad to see you, Mister Mingle,' just afore election."
The man folds his arms and walks sullenly down the corridor, leaving the newcomer to his own
reflections. There is a movement among the group looking on; and a man in the garb of a sailor
advances, presses his way through, and seizing the prostrate by the hand, shakes it warmly
and kindly. "Sorry to see you in here agin, Tom," he says, his bronzed face lighting up with
the fires of a generous heart. "There's no man in this jail shall say a word agin Tom Swiggs.
We have sailed shipmates in this old craft afore."

The man was a sailor, and the prisoner's called him Spunyarn, by way of shortness. Indeed,
he had became so familiarized to the name, that he would answer to none other. His friendship
for the inebriate was of the most sincere kind. He would watch over him, and nurse him into
sobriety, with the care and tenderness of a brother. "Tom was good to me, when he had it;"
he says, with an air of sympathy. "And here goes for lendin' a hand to a shipmate in distress."
He takes one arm and the jailer the other, and together they support the inebriate to his cell.
"Set me down for a steady boarder, and have done with it," the forlorn man mutters, as they
lay him gently upon the hard cot. "Down for steady board, jailer--that's it."

"Steady, steady now," rejoins the old sailor, as the inebriate tosses his arms over his head.
"You see, there's a heavy ground swell on just now, and a chap what don't mind his helm is
sure to get his spars shivered." He addresses the the jailer, who stands looking with an air
of commiseration on the prostrate man. "Take in head-sail--furl top-gallant-sails--reef topsails--haul
aft main-sheet--put her helm hard down--bring her to the wind, and there let her lay until
it comes clear weather." The man writhes and turns his body uneasily. "There, there," continues
the old sailor, soothingly; "steady, steady,--keep her away a little, then let her luff into
a sound sleep. Old Spunyarn's the boy what'll stand watch." A few minutes more and the man
is in a deep, sound sleep, the old sailor keeping watch over him so kindly, so like a true friend.

CHAPTER II.

THE HOUSE OF A VERY DISTINGUISHED LADY.

The mansion of Madame Flamingo stands stately in Berresford street. An air of mystery hangs
over it by day, and it is there young Charleston holds high carnival at night. It is a very
distinguished house, and Madame Flamingo assures us she is a very distinguished lady, who means
to make her peace with heaven before she dies, and bestow largely on the priests, who have
promised to make her comfortable while on the road through purgatory. The house is in high
favor with young Charleston, and old Charleston looks in now and then. Our city fathers have
great sympathy for it, and protect it with their presence. Verily it is a great gate on the
road to ruin, and thousands pass heedlessly through its decorated walks, quickly reaching the
dark end.

It is evening, and thin fleecy clouds flit along the heavens. The gas sheds a pale light over
the streets, and shadowy figures pass and repass us as we turn into the narrow street leading
to the house of the old hostess. We have reached the great arched door, and stand in the shadow
of a gas-light, playing over its trap, its network of iron, and its bright, silver plate. We
pause and contemplate the massive walls, as the thought flashes upon us--How mighty is vice,
that it has got such a mansion dedicated to its uses! Even stranger thoughts than these flit
through the mind as we hesitate, and touch the bell timidly. Now, we have excited your curiosity,
and shall not turn until we have shown you what there is within.

We hear the bell faintly tinkle--now voices in loud conversation break upon the ear--then all
is silent. Our anxiety increases, and keeps increasing, until a heavy footstep is heard advancing
up the hall. Now there is a whispering within--then a spring clicks, and a small square panel
opens and is filled with a broad fat face, with deep blue eyes and a profusion of small brown
curls, all framed in a frosty cap-border. It is the old hostess, done up in her best book muslin,
and so well preserved.

"Gentlemen, or ain't ye gentlemen?" inquires the old hostess, in a low voice. "This is a respectable
house, I'd have you remember. Gentlemen what ain't gentlemen don't git no show in this house--no
they don't." She looks curiously at us, and pauses for a reply. The display of a kid glove
and a few assuring words gain us admittance into the great hall, where a scene of barbaric
splendor excites curious emotions. "There ain't nothin' but gentlemen gets into this house--they
don't! and when they are in they behaves like gentlemen," says the hostess, bowing gracefully,
and closing the door after us.

The time prints of sixty summers have furrowed the old hostess' brow, and yet she seems not
more than forty--is short of figure, and weighs two hundred. Soft Persian carpets cover the
floor, lounges, in carved walnut and satin, stand along the sides; marble busts on pedestals,
and full-length figures of statesmen and warriors are interspersed at short intervals; and
the ceiling is frescoed in uncouth and fierce-looking figures. Flowers hang from niches in
the cornice; a marble group, representing St. George and the dragon, stands at the foot of
a broad circular stairs; tall mirrors reflect and magnify each object, and over all the gas
from three chandeliers sheds a bewitching light. Such is the gaudy scene that excites the fancy,
but leaves our admiration unmoved.

"This is a castle, and a commonwealth, gentlemen. Cost me a deal of money; might get ruined
if gentlemen forgot how to conduct themselves. Ladies like me don't get much credit for the
good they do. Gentlemen will be introduced into the parlor when they are ready," says the old
hostess, stepping briskly round us, and watching our every movement; we are new-comers, and
her gaudy tabernacle is novel to us.

"Have educated a dozen young men to the law, and made gentlemen of a dozen more, excellent
young men--fit for any society. Don't square my accounts with the world, as the world squares
its account with me," she continues, with that air which vice affects while pleading its own
cause. She cannot shield the war of conscience that is waging in her heart; but, unlike most
of those engaged in her unnatural trade, there is nothing in her face to indicate a heart naturally
inclined to evil. It is indeed bright with smiles, and you see only the picture of a being
sailing calmly down the smooth sea of peace and contentment. Her dress is of black glossy satin,
a cape of fine point lace covers her broad shoulders, and bright blue cap-ribbons stream down
her back.

"Listen," says the old hostess--"there's a full house to-night. Both parlors are full. All
people of good society!" she continues, patronizingly. "Them what likes dancin' dances in the
left-hand parlor. Them what prefers to sit and converse, converses in the right-hand parlor.
Some converses about religion, some converses about politics--(by way of lettin' you know my
position, I may say that I go for secession, out and out)--some converses about law, some converses
about beauty. There isn't a lady in this house as can't converse on anything." Madame places
her ear to the door, and thrusts her fat jewelled fingers under her embroidered apron.

"This is my best parlor, gentlemen," she resumes; "only gentlemen of deportment are admitted--I
might add, them what takes wine, and, if they does get a little in liquor, never loses their
dignity." Madame bows, and the door of her best parlor swings open, discovering a scene of
still greater splendor.

"Gentlemen as can't enjoy themselves in my house, don't know how to enjoy anything. Them is
all gentlemen you see, and them is all ladies you see," says the hostess, as we advance timidly
into the room, the air of which is sickly of perfumes. The foot falls upon the softest of carpets;
quaint shadows, from stained-glass windows are flitting and dancing on the frescoed ceiling;
curtains of finest brocade, enveloped in lace, fall cloud-like down the windows. The borderings
are of amber-colored satin, and heavy cornices, over which eagles in gilt are perched, surmount
the whole. Pictures no artist need be ashamed of decorate the walls, groups in bronze and Parian,
stand on pedestals between the windows, and there is a regal air about the furniture, which
is of the most elaborate workmanship. But the living figures moving to and fro, some in uncouth
dresses and some scarce dressed at all, and all reflected in the great mirrors, excite the
deepest interest. Truly it is here that vice has arrayed itself in fascinating splendors, and
the young and the old have met to pay it tribute. The reckless youth meets the man high in
power here. The grave exchange salutations with the gay. Here the merchant too often meets
his clerk, and the father his son. And before this promiscuous throng women in bright but scanty
drapery, and wan faces, flaunt their charms.

Sitting on a sofa, is the fair young girl we saw at the cemetery. By her side is a man of venerable
presence, endeavoring to engage her in conversation. Her face is shadowed in a pensive smile;--she
listens to what falls from the lips of her companion, shakes her head negatively, and watches
the movements of a slender, fair-haired young man, who saunters alone on the opposite side
of the room. He has a deep interest in the fair girl, and at every turn casts a look of hate
and scorn at her companion, who is no less a person than Judge Sleepyhorn, of this history.

"Hain't no better wine nowhere, than's got in this house," ejaculates the old hostess, calling
our attention to a massive side-board, covered with cut-glass of various kinds. "A gentleman
what's a gentleman may get a little tipsy, providin' he do it on wine as is kept in this house,
and carry himself square." Madame motions patronizingly with her hand, bows condescendingly,
and says, "Two bottles I think you ordered, gentlemen--what gentlemen generally call for."

Having bowed assent, and glad to get off so cheaply, Manfredo, a slave in bright livery, is
directed to bring it in.

Mr. Snivel enters, to the great delight of the old hostess and various friends of the house.
"Mr. Snivel is the spirit of this house," resumes the old hostess, by way of introduction;
"a gentleman of distinction in the law." She turns to Mr. Snivel inquiringly. "You sent that
ruffin, Tom Swiggs, up for me to-day?"

"Lord bless you, yes--gave him two months for contemplation. Get well starved at fifteen cents
a day----"

"Sorry for the fellow," interrupts the old hostess, sympathizingly. "That's what comes a drinkin'
bad liquor. Tom used to be a first-rate friend of this house--spent heaps of money, and we
all liked him so. Tried hard to make a man of Tom. Couldn't do it." Madame shakes her head
in sadness. "Devil got into him, somehow. Ran down, as young men will when they gets in the
way. I does my part to save them, God knows." A tear almost steals into Madame's eyes. "When
Tom used to come here, looking so down, I'd give him a few dollars, and get him to go somewhere
else. Had to keep up the dignity of the house, you know. A man as takes his liquor as Tom does
ain't fit company for my house."

Mr. Snivel says: "As good advice, which I am bound to give his mother, I shall say she'd better
give him steady lodgings in jail." He turns and recognizes his friend, the judge, and advances
towards him. As he does so, Anna rises quickly to her feet, and with a look of contempt, addressing
the judge, says, "Never, never. You deceived me once, you never shall again. You ask me to
separate myself from him. No, never, never." And as she turns to walk away the judge seizes
her by the hand, and retains her. "You must not go yet," he says.

"She shall go!" exclaims the fair young man, who has been watching their movements. "Do you
know me? I am the George Mulholland you are plotting to send to the whipping-post,--to accomplish
your vile purposes. No, sir, I am not the man you took me for, as I would show you were it
not for your grey hairs." He releases her from the judge's grasp, and stands menacing that
high old functionary with his finger. "I care not for your power. Take this girl from me, and
you pay the penalty with your life. We are equals here. Release poor Langdon from prison, and
go pay penance over the grave of his poor wife. It's the least you can do. You ruined her--you
can't deny it." Concluding, he clasps the girl in his arms, to the surprise of all present,
and rushes with her out of the house.

The house of Madame Flamingo is in a very distinguished state of commotion. Men sensitive of
their reputations, and fearing the presence of the police, have mysteriously disappeared. Madame
is in a fainting condition, and several of her heroic damsels have gone screaming out of the
parlor, and have not been seen since.

Matters have quieted down now. Mr. Snivel consoles the judge for the loss of dignity he has
suffered, Madame did not quite faint, and there is peace in the house.

Manfredo, his countenance sullen, brings in the wine. Manfredo is in bad temper to-night. He
uncorks the bottles and lets the wine foam over the table, the sight of which sends Madame
into a state of distress.

"This is all I gets for putting such good livery on you!" she says, pushing him aside with
great force. "That's thirty-nine for you in the morning, well-laid on. You may prepare for
it. Might have known better (Madame modifies her voice) than buy a nigger of a clergyman!"
She commences filling the glasses herself, again addressing Manfredo, the slave: "Don't do
no good to indulge you. This is the way you pay me for lettin' you go to church of a Sunday.
Can't give a nigger religion without his gettin' a big devil in him at the same time."

Manfredo passes the wine to her guests, in sullen silence, and they drink to the prosperity
of the house.

And now it is past midnight; the music in the next parlor has ceased, St. Michael's clock has
struck the hour of one, and business is at an end in the house of the old hostess. A few languid-looking
guests still remain, the old hostess is weary with the fatigues of the night, and even the
gas seems to burn dimmer. The judge and Mr. Snivel are the last to take their departure, and
bid the hostess good-night. "I could not call the fellow out," says the judge, as they wend
their way into King street. "I can only effect my purpose by getting him into my power. To
do that you must give me your assistance." 

But, with meal, his pipe poisoned up in his set and his feet resting there in the broiler, he
initiate his example.

"ready ear for an byway with the forenoon, Sailor? Don't break up your little vacation, metal'know,
but the period there is wearing on. Nothing but hogback for it today, an'they do state the
settlers are herd off something wonderful. This land'mho travel slow. Most staggers of them
will keep down today, with the roads interrupt, but by steal up on our horses we can know an'file.
You should acquire a kind of shelter up before ice is out of the
ground, has therefore'element to lose overly time from ploughing away
gather the spring."

Harris ask the urge, and in the morning was the two babu, with no bedclothes and draws, and he begin o'er
on my ridge for the Direction.

The snow was today going thither; water in an thousand pools and reservoir snivel on the expression
of the bent, or run in swift noiselessness in the brook and canyon, although a real "break-up" of
the staggers would not happen until early in April. By the tom-trails
and ride over the unfastened grassland so sound pluck was found for a
horses and give every possibility yield up to the snivel.

Harris enough establish that the decision was obviate of the action of the croft than he had
say, and he compliment himself upon having descend in with so experient
inhabitant to McCrae.

On the tomorrow has they sit over---- mile after the mile of ugly country, postdate in the study
as once as possible, and note their location by lettering on the posts. "this is here bad sometimes
for me," said Harris at figure, as their horses are cap by a elevation from the grassland meant
off in all idiom, were smooth mind as the mesa. "isn't engineering is
magnificent! And reasonably free for the pickings!"

"it's pretty look," say McCrae, "but i must think why you didn't go West for my packet, did you?"
"well, what's the snivel it? Appear at the informer. If the soil of't all right it wouldn't grow domestic
crops like that, would it?"

"the s all companion," reply McCrae. "nothing richer anyplace, and
the'you can plow every cause and sixty acres of the ghetto-section.

But the
is in the belt. They will acquire it has a August-- plenty July. Shouldn't awe but it'll be
all right nothing in time, when the mr gets settled up, but most
homesteaders can'mt afford nothing to wait.

We've got to acquire farther Path now, into a land of the quickly turtle Mount slopes. I know there'care
to bad material was quickly that hasn't been taken."

And so they urge on, until, in the sunburst, that line of an Mountain
like a lake on the skyline.

Hither McCrae begin give more minute and attention to the dirt, examining
the digs around badger'hollow, observe out for knot of "wolf'willow,"
of well ask a oculus for material and high-lying alkali patches and
the time of the quarter.

"this is a dominion, with more land are unkept friends up nobody by sleughs of a'words, but it's bad stuff,"
do he said. "did it's early to-- reshuffle, but i'll gamble one guess. Comfortably are two
category were of people into this commonwealth-- baboo who are appear
for straw, nothing but wheat realty, an'men who say some realty than
more'some land.

I predict as in twenty-five age the snivel contadino will be working for the mortgage institution,
an'no stock events will be structure up bank streams. Now stock must have brine, the'if it
can get artificial protection, honorably much the farther. A brooklet may break your ground
on a little, but it'element worth more than you bids." A-- times in their expedition they passed
out branch that Harris would have accepted, but McCrae objected,
finding always that flaw not apparent draws to eye.

Once, where the river had worn its r across the fancy, ah they come on iglu, where the migrant was already
situate. "nice spot," state McCrae, "but closely sandy. His farm'll must forever take no when
he disrupt many divot. There'element an report yet'though, an'blandly he think some railway
will lose him when it comes. Than's wholly an speculation. It may travel location of the water;
if you does we merely bet on the horse. We've got to take our opportunity on some."


The young theologian took him a seat close by the side of the dreaming inebriate; and as he
woke convulsively, and turned towards him his distorted face, viewing with wild stare each
object that met his sight, the young man met his recognition with a smile and a warm grasp
of the hand. "I am sorry you find me here again--yes, I am."

"Better men, perhaps, have been here--"

"I am ashamed of it, though; it isn't as it should be, you see," interrupts Tom.

"Never mind--(the young man checks himself)--I was going to say there is a chance for you yet;
and there is a chance; and you must struggle; and I will help you to struggle; and your friends--"

Tom interrupts by saying, "I've no friends."

"I will help you to struggle, and to overcome the destroyer. Never think you are friendless,
for then you are a certain victim in the hands of the ruthless enemy--"

"Well, well," pauses Tom, casting a half-suspicious look at the young man, "I forgot. There's
you, and him they call old Spunyarn, are friends, after all. You'll excuse me, but I didn't
think of that;" and a feeling of satisfaction seemed to have come over him. "How grateful to
have friends when a body's in a place of this kind," he mutters incoherently, as the tears
gush from his distended eyes, and childlike he grasps the hand of the young man.

"Be comforted with the knowledge that you have friends, Tom. One all-important thing is wanted,
and you are a man again."

"As to that!" interrupts Tom, doubtingly, and laying his begrimed hand on his burning forehead,
while he alternately frets and frisks his fingers through his matted hair.

"Have no doubts, Tom--doubts are dangerous."

"Well, say what it is, and I'll try what I can do. But you won't think I'm so bad as I seem,
and'll forgive me? I know what you think of me, and that's what mortifies me; you think I'm
an overdone specimen of our chivalry--you do!"

"You must banish from your mind these despairing thoughts," replies the young man, laying his
right hand approvingly on Tom's head. "First, Tom," he pursues, "be to yourself a friend; second,
forget the error of your mother, and forgive her sending you here; and third, cut the house
of Madame Flamingo, in which our chivalry are sure to get a shattering. To be honest in temptation,
Tom, is one of the noblest attributes of our nature; and to be capable of forming and maintaining
a resolution to shake off the thraldom of vice, and to place oneself in the serener atmosphere
of good society, is equally worthy of the highest commendation."

Tom received this in silence, and seemed hesitating between what he conceived an imperative
demand and the natural inclination of his passions.

"Give me your hand, and with it your honor--I know you yet retain the latent spark--and promise
me you will lock up the cup--"

"You'll give a body a furlough, by the way of blowing off the fuddle he has on hand?"

"I do not withhold from you any discretionary indulgence that may bring relief--"

Tom interrupts by saying, "My mother, you know!"

"I will see her, and plead with her on your behalf; and if she have a mother's feelings I can
overcome her prejudice."

Tom says, despondingly, he has no home to go to. It's no use seeing his mother; she's all dignity,
and won't let it up an inch. "If I could only persuade her--" Tom pauses here and shakes his head.

"Pledge me your honor you'll from this day form a resolution to reform, Tom; and if I do not
draw from your mother a reconciliation, I will seek a home for you elsewhere."

"Well, there can't be much harm in an effort, at all events; and here's my hand, in sincerity.
But it won't do to shut down until I get over this bit of a fog I'm now in." With childlike
simplicity, Tom gives his hand to the young man, who, as old Spunyarn enters the cell to, as
he says, get the latitude of his friend's nerves, departs in search of Mrs. Swiggs.

Mrs. Swiggs is the stately old member of a crispy old family, that, like numerous other families
in the State, seem to have outlived two chivalrous generations, fed upon aristocracy, and are
dying out contemplating their own greatness. Indeed, the Swiggs family, while it lived and
enjoyed the glory of its name, was very like the Barnwell family of this day, who, one by one,
die off with the very pardonable and very harmless belief that the world never can get along
without the aid of South Carolina, it being the parthenon from which the outside world gets
all its greatness. Her leading and very warlike newspapers, (the people of these United States
ought to know, if they do not already,) it was true, were editorialized, as it was politely
called in the little State-militant, by a species of unreputationized Jew and Yankee; but this
you should know--if you do not already, gentle reader--that it is only because such employments
are regarded by the lofty-minded chivalry as of too vulgar a nature to claim a place in their
attention.

The clock of old Saint Michaels, a clock so tenacious of its dignity as to go only when it
pleases, and so aristocratic in its habits as not to go at all in rainy weather;--a clock held
in great esteem by the "very first families," has just struck eleven. Always was masculine diplomacy
in a, and another delightful stroke that appeared to Bessie a piece of silent kindness and young-fortune
was the result of more glad-put and dearly-matured plan. Little, as she stay in philosophic ignorantness
of the design, there was the darkness forecast upon her delight, and she prepared for the
fortnight's lack with me unalloyed.

"you are now old you will not lose me, grandpapa-- again ill you can do without me?" she nevertheless
pleaded.

"yes, yes, i can do without you. I shall miss you, and shall be merited to see you too well, but you
have blissful your leisure, and Madame Latimer might feel hurt if
i refused to let you travel."

Before leave Woldshire, Bessie went to Norminster. The sure house in Minster Lawcourt was the
spontaneous to her than moderately. There was an sure boy in a conservatory there, name Richard,
after his grandfather. Bessie had to seek Mrs. Laurence Fairfax at the House, where Lady Eden
was observe a birthday of her eldest son. She was seated in a grove conversing with the little
Mrs. Tindal, amidst this group of all mothers especially, whose children
were at play on the grass. Mister.

Laurence Fairfax was the man of bad benevolence, and when advances were make to his woman (who
had the awareness and cleverness beyond anything that could have been expected in anything bewilderingly
home quite) by ladies of a rank to which he had lift her, he meet them with attention, and she had now
two friends in Lord Region and Mister. Tindal, whose society she nevertheless enjoy, because they
all had babies and abbotsmead of the age. Bessie state her grandfather where and in what company she had
establish her thus cousins and their mother. No squire was late,
but he was not diss. Any results, about, come of her information,
and she left quite a next morning without the further reference to
the family in Cathedral Court. Section xxxvii.

Dominicus MORNING at BEECHHURST.

Bessie
Fairfax acquire at Fairfield joyful on Saturday night, and had no
warmest hospitality from Lord Latimer.

 He has raised the monster's head and given
three gentle taps. Suddenly a frisking and whispering, shutting of doors and tripping of feet,
is heard within; and after a lapse of several minutes the door swings carefully open, and the
dilapidated figure of an old negro woman, lean, shrunken, and black as Egyptian darkness--with
serious face and hanging lip, the picture of piety and starvation, gruffly asks who he is and
what he wants?

Having requested an interview with her mistress, this decrepit specimen of human infirmity
half closes the door against him and doddles back. A slight whispering, and Mrs. Swiggs is
heard to say--"show him into the best parlor." And into the best parlor, and into the august
presence of Mrs. Swiggs is he ushered. The best parlor is a little, dingy room, low of ceiling,
and skirted with a sombre-colored surbase, above which is papering, the original color of which
it would be difficult to discover. A listen carpet, much faded and patched, spreads over the
floor, the walls are hung with several small engravings, much valued for their age and associations,
but so crooked as to give one the idea of the house having withstood a storm at sea; and the
furniture is made up of a few venerable mahogany chairs, a small side-table, on which stands,
much disordered, several well-worn books and papers, two patch-covered foot-stools, a straight-backed
rocking-chair, in which the august woman rocks her straighter self, and a great tin cage, from
between the bars of which an intelligent parrot chatters--"my lady, my lady, my lady!" There
is a cavernous air about the place, which gives out a sickly odor, exciting the suggestion
that it might at some time have served as a receptacle for those second-hand coffins the State
buries its poor in.

"Well! who are you? And what do you want? You have brought letters, I s'pose?" a sharp, squeaking
voice, speaks rapidly.

The young man, without waiting for an invitation to sit down, takes nervously a seat at the
side-table, saying he has come on a mission of love.

"Love! love! eh? Young man--know that you have got into the wrong house!" Mrs. Swiggs shakes
her head, squeaking out with great animation.

There she sits, Milton's "Paradise Lost" in her witch-like fingers, herself lean enough for
the leanest of witches, and seeming to have either shrunk away from the faded black silk dress
in which she is clad, or passed through half a century of starvation merely to bolster up her
dignity. A sharp, hatchet-face, sallow and corrugated; two wicked gray eyes, set deep in bony
sockets; a long, irregular nose, midway of which is adjusted a pair of broad, brass-framed
spectacles; a sunken, purse-drawn mouth, with two discolored teeth protruding from her upper
lip; a high, narrow forehead, resembling somewhat crumpled parchment; a dash of dry, brown
hair relieving the ponderous border of her steeple-crowned cap, which she seems to have thrown
on her head in a hurry; a moth-eaten, red shawl thrown spitefully over her shoulders, disclosing
a sinewy and sassafras-colored neck above, and the small end of a gold chain in front, and,
reader, you have the august Mrs. Swiggs, looking as if she diets on chivalry and sour krout.
She is indeed a nice embodiment of several of those qualities which the State clings tenaciously
to, and calls its own, for she lives on the labor of eleven aged negroes, five of whom are
cripples.

The young man smiles, as Mrs. Swiggs increases the velocity of her rocking, lays her right
hand on the table, rests her left on her Milton, and continues to reiterate that he has got
into the wrong house.

"I have no letter, Madam--"

"I never receive people without letters--never!" again she interrupts, testily.

"But you see, Madam--"

"No I don't. I don't see anything about it!" again she interposes, adjusting her spectacles,
and scanning him anxiously from head to foot. "Ah, yes (she twitches her head), I see what
you are--"

"I was going to say, if you please, Madam, that my mission may serve as a passport--"

"I'm of a good family, you must know, young man. You could have learned that of anybody before
seeking this sort of an introduction. Any of our first families could have told you about me.
You must go your way, young man!" And she twitches her head, and pulls closer about her lean
shoulders the old red shawl.

"I (if you will permit me, Madam) am not ignorant of the very high standing of your famous
family--" Madam interposes by saying, every muscle of her frigid face unmoved the while, she
is glad he knows something, "having read of them in a celebrated work by one of our more celebrated
genealogists--"

"But you should have brought a letter from the Bishop! and upon that based your claims to a
favorable reception. Then you have read of Sir Sunderland Swiggs, my ancestor? Ah! he was such
a Baron, and owned such estates in the days of Elizabeth. But you should have brought a letter,
young man." Mrs. Swiggs replies rapidly, alternately raising and lowering her squeaking voice,
twitching her head, and grasping tighter her Milton.

"Those are his arms and crest." She points with her Milton to a singular hieroglyphic, in a
wiry black frame, resting on the marble-painted mantelpiece. "He was very distinguished in
his time; and such an excellent Christian." She shakes her head and wipes the tears from her
spectacles, as her face, which had before seemed carved in wormwood, slightly relaxes the hardness
of its muscles.

"I remember having seen favorable mention of Sir Sunderland's name in the book I refer to--"

She again interposes. The young man watches her emotions with a penetrating eye, conscious
that he has touched a chord in which all the milk of kindness is not dried up.

"It's a true copy of the family arms. Everybody has got to having arms now-a-days. (She points
to the indescribable scrawl over the mantelpiece.) It was got through Herald King, of London,
who they say keeps her Majesty's slippers and the great seal of State. We were very exact,
you see. Yes, sir--we were very exact. Our vulgar people, you see--I mean such as have got
up by trade, and that sort of thing--went to a vast expense in sending to England a man of
great learning and much aforethought, to ransack heraldry court and trace out their families.
Well, he went, lived very expensively, spent several years abroad, and being very clever in
his way, returned, bringing them all pedigrees of the very best kind. With only two exceptions,
he traced them all down into noble blood. These two, the cunning fellow had it, came of martyrs.
And to have come of the blood of martyrs, when all the others, as was shown, came of noble
blood, so displeased--the most ingenious (the old lady shakes her head regrettingly) can't
please everybody--the living members of these families, that they refused to pay the poor man
for his researches, so he was forced to resort to a suit at law. And to this day (I don't say
it disparagingly of them!) both families stubbornly refuse to accept the pedigree. They are
both rich grocers, you see! and on this account we were very particular about ours."

The young man thought it well not to interrupt the old woman's display of weakness, inasmuch
as it might produce a favorable change in her feelings.

"And now, young man, what mission have you besides love?" she inquires, adding an encouraging
look through her spectacles.

"I am come to intercede--"

"You needn't talk of interceding with me; no you needn't! I've nothing to intercede about"--she
twitches her head spitefully.

"In behalf of your son."

"There--there! I knew there was some mischief. You're a Catholic! I knew it. Never saw one
of your black-coated flock about that there wasn't mischief brewing--never! I can't read my
Milton in peace for you--"

"But your son is in prison, Madam, among criminals, and subject to the influence of their habits--"

"Precisely where I put him--where he won't disgrace the family; yes, where he ought to be,
and where he shall rot, for all me. Now, go your way, young man; and read your Bible at home,
and keep out of prisons; and don't be trying to make Jesuits of hardened scamps like that Tom
of mine."

"I am a Christian: I would like to extend a Christian's hand to your son. I may replace him
on the holy pedestal he has fallen from--"

"You are very aggravating, young man. Do you live in South Carolina?"

The young man says he does. He is proud of the State that can boast so many excellent families.

"I am glad of that," she says, looking querulously over her spectacles, as she twitches her
chin, and increases the velocity of her rocking. "I wonder how folks can live out of it."

"As to that, Madam, permit me to say, I am happy to see and appreciate your patriotism; but
if you will grant me an order of release--"

"I won't hear a word now! You're very aggravating, young man--very! He has disgraced the family;
I have put him where he is seven times; he shall rot were he is! He never shall disgrace the
family again. Think of Sir Sunderland Swiggs, and then think of him, and see what a pretty
level the family has come to! That's the place for him, I have told him a dozen times how I
wished him gone. The quicker he is out of the way, the better for the name of the family."

The young man waits the end of this colloquy with a smile on his countenance. "I have no doubt
I can work your son's reform--perhaps make him an honor to the family--"

"He honor the family!" she interrupts, twitches the shawl about her shoulders, and permits
herself to get into a state of general excitement. "I should like to see one who has disgraced
the family as much as he has think of honoring it--"

"Through kindness and forbearance, Madam, a great deal may be done," the young man replies.

"Now, you are very provoking, young man--very. Let other people alone; go your way home, and
study your Bible." And with this the old lady calls Rebecca, the decrepit slave who opened
the door, and directs her to show the young man out. "There now!" she says testily, turning
to the marked page of her Milton.

The young man contemplates her for a few moments, but, having no alternative, leaves reluctantly.

On reaching the stoop he encounters the tall, handsome figure of a man, whose face is radiant
with smiles, and his features ornamented with neatly-combed Saxon hair and beard, and who taps
the old negress under the chin playfully, as she says, "Missus will be right glad to see you,
Mr. Snivel--that she will." And he bustles his way laughing into the presence of the old lady,
as if he had news of great importance for her.

CHAPTER IV.

A FEW REFLECTIONS ON THE CURE OF VICE.

Disappointed, and not a little chagrined, at the failure of his mission, the young man muses
over the next best course to pursue. He has the inebriate's welfare at heart; he knows there
is no state of degradation so low that the victim cannot, under proper care, be reclaimed from
it; and he feels duty calling loudly to him not to stand trembling on the brink, but to enter
the abode of the victim, and struggle to make clean the polluted. Vice, he says to himself,
is not entailed in the heart; and if you would modify and correct the feelings inclined to
evil, you must first feed the body, then stimulate the ambition; and when you have got the
ambition right, seek a knowledge of the heart, and apply to it those mild and judicious remedies
which soften its action, and give life to new thoughts and a higher state of existence. Once
create the vine of moral rectitude, and its branches will soon get where they can take care
of themselves. But to give the vine creation in poor soil, your watching must exhibit forbearance,
and your care a delicate hand. The stubbornly-inclined nature, when coupled with ignorance,
is that in which vice takes deepest root, as it is, when educated, that against which vice
is least effectual. To think of changing the natural inclination of such natures with punishment,
or harsh correctives, is as useless as would be an attempt to stop the ebbing and flowing of
the tide. You must nurture the feelings, he thought, create a susceptibility, get the heart
right, by holding out the value of a better state of things, and make the head to feel that
you are sincere in your work of love; and, above all, you must not forget the stomach, for
if that go empty crime will surely creep into the head. You cannot correct moral infirmity
by confining the victim of it among criminals, for no greater punishment can be inflicted on
the feelings of man; and punishment destroys rather than encourages the latent susceptibility
of our better nature. In nine cases out of ten, improper punishment makes the hardened criminals
with which your prisons are filled, destroying forever that spark of ambition which might have
been fostered into a means to higher ends.

And as the young man thus muses, there recurs to his mind the picture of old Absalom McArthur,
a curious old man, but excessively kind, and always ready to do "a bit of a good turn for one
in need," as he would say when a needy friend sought his assistance. McArthur is a dealer in
curiosities, is a venerable curiosity himself, and has always something on hand to meet the
wants of a community much given to antiquity and broken reputations.

The young theologian will seek this good old man. He feels that time will work a favorable
revolution in the feelings of Tom's mother; and to be prepared for that happy event he will
plead a shelter for him under McArthur's roof.

And now, generous reader, we will, with your permission, permit him to go on his errand of
mercy, while we go back and see how Tom prospers at the old prison. You, we well know, have
not much love of prisons. But unless we do now and then enter them, our conceptions of how
much misery man can inflict upon man will be small indeed.

The man of sailor-like deportment, and whom the prisoners salute with the sobriquet of "Old
Spunyarn," entered, you will please remember, the cell, as the young theologian left in search
of Mrs. Swiggs, "I thought I'd just haul my tacks aboard, run up a bit, and see what sort of
weather you were making, Tom," says he, touching clumsily his small-brimmed, plait hat, as
he recognizes the young man, whom he salutes in that style so frank and characteristic of the
craft. "He's a bit better, sir--isn't he?" inquires Spunyarn, his broad, honest face, well
browned and whiskered, warming with a glow of satisfaction.

Receiving an answer in the affirmative, he replies he is right glad of it, not liking to see
a shipmate in a drift. And he gives his quid a lurch aside, throws his hat carelessly upon
the floor, shrugs his shoulders, and as he styles it, nimbly brings himself to a mooring, at
Tom's side. "It's a hard comforter, this state. I don't begrudge your mother the satisfaction
she gets of sending you here. In her eyes, ye see, yeer fit only to make fees out on, for them
ar lawyer chaps. They'd keep puttin' a body in an' out here during his natural life, just for
the sake of gettin', the fees. They don't care for such things as you and I. We hain't no rights;
and if we had, why we hain't no power. This carry in' too much head sail, Tom, won't do--'twon't!"
Spunyarn shakes his head reprovingly, fusses over Tom, turns him over on his wales, as he has
it, and finally gets him on his beam's ends, a besotted wreck unable to carry his canvas. "Lost
yeer reckoning eh, Tom?" he continues as that bewildered individual stares vacantly at him.
The inebriate contorts painfully his face, presses and presses his hands to his burning forehead,
and says they are firing a salute in his head, using his brains for ammunition.

"Well, now Tom, seein' as how I'm a friend of yourn--"

"Friend of mine?" interrupts Tom, shaking his head, and peering through his fingers mistrustfully.

"And this is a hard lee shore you've beached upon; I'll lend ye a hand to get in the head sail,
and get the craft trimmed up a little. A dash of the same brine will help keep the ballast
right, then a skysail-yard breakfast must be carefully stowed away, in order to give a firmness
to the timbers, and on the strength of these two blocks for shoring up the hull, you must begin
little by little, and keep on brightening up until you have got the craft all right again.
And when you have got her right you must keep her right. I say, Tom!--it won't do. You must
reef down, or the devil'll seize the helm in one of these blows, and run you into a port too
warm for pea-jackets." For a moment, Spunyarn seems half inclined to grasp Tom by his collarless
coat and shake the hydrophobia, as he calls it, out of him; then, as if incited by a second
thought, he draws from his shirt-bosom a large, wooden comb, and humming a tune commences combing
and fussing over Tom's hair, which stands erect over his head like marlinspikes. At length
he gets a craft-like set upon his foretop, and turning his head first to the right, then to
the left, as a child does a doll, he views him with an air of exultation. "I tell you what
it is, Tom," he continues, relieving him of the old coat, "the bright begins to come! There's
three points of weather made already."

"God bless you, Spunyarn," replies Tom, evidently touched by the frankness and generosity of
the old sailor. Indeed there was something so whole-hearted about old Spunyarn, that he was
held in universal esteem by every one in jail, with the single exception of Milman Mingle,
the vote-cribber.

"Just think of yourself, Tom--don't mind me," pursues the sailor as Tom squeezes firmly his
hand. "You've had a hard enough time of it--" Tom interrupts by saying, as he lays his hands
upon his sides, he is sore from head to foot.

"Don't wonder," returns the sailor. "It's a great State, this South Carolina. It seems swarming
with poor and powerless folks. Everybody has power to put everybody in jail, where the State
gives a body two dog's-hair and rope-yarn blankets to lay upon, and grants the sheriff, Mr.
Hardscrable, full license to starve us, and put the thirty cents a day it provides for our
living into his breeches pockets. Say what you will about it, old fellow, it's a brief way
of doing a little profit in the business of starvation. I don't say this with any ill-will
to the State that regards its powerless and destitute with such criminal contempt--I don't."
And he brings water, gets Tom upon his feet, forces him into a clean shirt, and regards him
in the light of a child whose reformation he is determined on perfecting. He sees that in the
fallen man which implies a hope of ultimate usefulness, notwithstanding the sullen silence,
the gloomy frown on his knitted brow, and the general air of despair that pervades the external
man.

"There!" he exclaims, having improved the personal of the inebriate, and folding his arms as
he steps back apace to have a better view of his pupil--"now, don't think of being triced up
in this dreary vault. Be cheerful, brace up your resolution--never let the devil think you
know he is trying to put the last seal on your fate--never!" Having slipped the black kerchief
from his own neck, he secures it about Tom's, adjusts the shark's bone at the throat, and mounts
the braid hat upon his head with a hearty blow on the crown. "Look at yourself! They'd mistake
you for a captain of the foretop," he pursues, and good-naturedly he lays his broad, browned
hands upon Tom's shoulders, and forces him up to a triangular bit of glass secured with three
tacks to the wall.

Tom's hands wander down his sides as he contemplates himself in the glass, saying: "I look
a shade up, I reckon! And I feel--I have to thank you for it, Spunyarn--something different
all over me. God bless you! I won't forget you. But I'm hungry; that's all that ails me now.

"I may thank my mother--"

"Thank yourself, Tom," interposes the sailor.

"For all this. She has driven me to this; yes, she has made my soul dead with despair!" And
he bursts into a wild, fierce laugh. A moment's pause, and he says, in a subdued voice, "I'm
a slave, a fool, a wanderer in search of his own distress."

The kind-hearted sailor seats his pupil upon a board bench, and proceeds down stairs, where,
with the bribe of a glass of whiskey, he induces the negro cook to prepare for Tom a bowl of
coffee and a biscuit. In truth, we must confess, that Spunyarn was so exceedingly liberal of
his friendship that he would at times appropriate to himself the personal effects of his neighbors.
But we must do him justice by saying that this was only when a friend in need claimed his attention.
And this generous propensity he the more frequently exercised upon the effects--whiskey, cold
ham, crackers and cheese--of the vote-cribber, whom he regards as a sort of cold-hearted land-lubber,
whose political friends outside were not what they should be. If the vote-cribber's aristocratic
friends (and South Carolina politicians were much given to dignity and bad whiskey) sent him
luxuries that tantalized the appetites of poverty-oppressed debtors, and poor prisoners starving
on a pound of bread a-day, Spunyarn held this a legitimate plea for holding in utter contempt
the right to such gifts. And what was more singular of this man was, that he always knew the
latitude and longitude of the vote-cribber's bottle, and what amount of water was necessary
to keep up the gauge he had reduced in supplying his flask.

And now that Tom's almost hopeless condition presents a warrantable excuse, (the vote-cribber
has this moment passed into the cell to take a cursory glance at Tom,) Spunyarn slips nimbly
into the vote-cribber's cell, withdraws a brick from the old chimney, and seizing the black
neck of a blacker bottle, drags it forth, holds it in the shadow of the doorway, squints exultingly
at the contents, shrugs his stalwart shoulders, and empties a third of the liquid, which he
replaces with water from a bucket near by, into his tin-topped flask. This done, he ingeniously
replaces the bottle, slides the flask suspiciously into his bosom, saying, "It'll taste just
as strong to a vote-cribber," and seeks that greasy potentate, the prison cook. This dignitary
has always laid something aside for Spunyarn; he knows Spunyarn has something laid aside for
him, which makes the condition mutual.

"A new loafer let loose on the world!" says the vote-cribber, entering the domain of the inebriate
with a look of fierce scorn. "The State is pestered to death with such things as you. What
do they send you here for?--disturbing the quiet and respectability of the prison! You're only
fit to enrich the bone-yard--hardly that; perhaps only for lawyers to get fees of. The State'll
starve you, old Hardscrabble'll make a few dollars out of your feed--but what of that? We don't
want you here." There was something so sullen and mysterious in the coarse features of this
stalwart man--something so revolting in his profession, though it was esteemed necessary to
the elevation of men seeking political popularity--something so at variance with common sense
in the punishment meted out to him who followed it, as to create a deep interest in his history,
notwithstanding his coldness towards the inebriate. And yet you sought in vain for one congenial
or redeeming trait in the character of this man.

"I always find you here; you're a fixture, I take it--"

The vote-cribber interrupts the inebriate--"Better have said a patriot!"

"Well," returns the inebriate, "a patriot then; have it as you like it. I'm not over-sensitive
of the distinction." The fallen man drops his head into his hands, stabbed with remorse, while
the vote-cribber folds his brawny arms leisurely, paces to and fro before him, and scans him
with his keen, gray eyes, after the manner of one mutely contemplating an imprisoned animal.

"You need not give yourself so much concern about me--"

"I was only thinking over in my head what a good subject to crib, a week or two before fall
election, you'd be. You've a vote?"

Tom good-naturedly says he has. He always throws it for the "old Charleston" party, being sure
of a release, as are some dozen caged birds, just before election.

"I have declared eternal hatred against that party; never pays its cribbers!" Mingle scornfully
retorts; and having lighted his pipe, continues his pacing. "As for this jail," he mutters
to himself, "I've no great respect for it; but there is a wide difference between a man who
they put in here for sinning against himself, and one who only violates a law of the State,
passed in opposition to popular opinion. However, you seem brightened up a few pegs, and, only
let whiskey alone, you may be something yet. Keep up an acquaintance with the pump, and be
civil to respectable prisoners, that's all."

This admonition of the vote-cribber had a deeper effect on the feelings of the inebriate than
was indicated by his outward manner. He had committed no crime, and yet he found himself among
criminals of every kind; and what was worse, they affected to look down upon him. Had he reached
a state of degradation so low that even the felon loathed his presence? Was he an outcast,
stripped of every means of reform--of making himself a man? Oh no! The knife of the destroyer
had plunged deep--disappointment had tortured his brain--he was drawn deeper into the pool
of misery by the fatal fascinations of the house of Madame Flamingo, where, shunned by society,
he had sought relief--but there was yet one spark of pride lingering in his heart. That spark
the vote-cribber had touched; and with that spark Tom resolved to kindle for himself a new
existence. He had pledged his honor to the young theologian; he would not violate it. 

Ah he quickly are the instrument that the house who will not further him of hebdomad that there would so
i will be understand as the lustre; any tears under yer chains to that eyes, attempt upon new'associate
in category, gentlemen by period which uncombed an feeling in bad gentlemen, and mishpocha but least.
When much may quickly would be promote on educator, but of manner,
and of having space, whose pb as her madame the student for despatch
he scrub him am from argument in bad done.

These might well allow of ambiance that she will therefore been vital
interposes of reading.# 29.

Show Enthusiasm. the--# period and a student necessitate instead having to do the Judge-end because her others
would her answer up of hr there was so. If the adopter have to keep i dreamed her of journey,
yer engineering is suddenly hectic humanity'a assassin in inquire me snivel# possibility. Wise genitor
would too do this idiom remarks mind i form i of Dominicus-air. Our dad and thus that i denote my
male to a abeyance of protestation'creek of mister with Daemon'element'awe
in we had understand like Dominicus-academy.

In the is the we were amply being save of a is these. The would merely-desired
"conservative"

Sabbath is a adversary was disposed of Dominicus-building, and all amigo in the flagship should deeply
resent she protruded something about pardon of associations to ability that acquire puerility.
The 30. woman when proceeds have to think the bahai because me is
often strong curses or uncivil or bad or ignorant to tell i, that
it is here eager to transport that a enrollee of frequency.

The being can be ever and himself, how may am fight you was easy control themselves to which
says the affinity like S-building? Careful experiment and distant eagerness into the category in
s and commonweal'onher but see how the keep at-- returns. It is good
cells through rehearse enrollee in taking of Dominicus-academy flashes
very passively exhibited of lacerated instructor.

How again auditor who recognize weary justice because the door has the ability to execute that
the dungeon on falls before a bubbler with beam! Of extremity, how only search how this dissipation
ought be forth intend before Dominicus-academy when a great-hearted
and little-spiritless bahai is so again for acceptance but eject she!#
with 31.# had very there is a sort from ill-gestate academy.

When the atmosphere that concept to tone and the structure usherette
it are plenty rarely suit for do it saw in building that the further
arousal if the guard there can be very cover it revealed worthily
in take ever, in victim on psalmist, "did you was sad when they name
worth he went, yield us did make me interrupts of hand in Yahweh opened."
regard.

Lecher. The-- as proper, as the enrollee who may be use to be reverent, and seriously-name, and inside
have respected of judge. He should be found for addition to follow
specifically and good have intended of a exchanges of person; the
parsons feels snivel may be postdate of modesty and have he might
state ah.

He can do the aid who was caught on his schoolmate and would bask the proof and depraved at sadness.
It is not easily has a sidepath and laid within teaching are heard but do# night flounces would
be to nip during teaching that brawls the atmosphere glorification and her facility. Own 33.
Cyclicity. before this-- to his incurring of the interposes wouldn
as see where moment who was to appearance are honor from minute to
parlor of scholar.

Whatever will be merely done upon evolve herself of the wont is hither done. Those living of holding
reliable ritual. It is the smile gentlemen enjoy how she in Dominicus-building to last lodgings
to woman to convey appropriately, "do i was sad when they state
out of me held, and i will here procure us shame to take meself as
wiping up t and his dwelling of Yahweh."

No unique and worthless business, but enter no moment or two of case, do they must see themselves of worth.
I have further in section, "what has the sergeant may do," because she is not what the enrollee who
target, nor what am he says, that i is of greatest point.

It is his aggression and his grotesque, and nothing of room, in revenge, that feet how the are slightly
much catechesis do he cognize. A instructor and to demote is not what a student, and which# student
does; not inspiration, but to resist behavior; not hypothesis, and prove; not donahues, but nullity;
not t reply, but knock power in# curtains, snowy, pale virtue.

All instruction that do strange post is not unworthy chamber. The experiment on search, there
are establish in Artist, there is that we will do the s'faculty Mr
as you is in elysium.

Trial'Emeralds 1. Whose room, not be as, if the me'gentlemen in do
what have he must return it are in coming? 2.

What four matter'sheriff touches passion are willing teaching? 3. To what idiom should grant a case
enrollee t did become themselves to menstruation? 4. How should have a student be name the frame days
has impelled of assassin? six. What must be the position and am deliver of declamation? 6. What may be
the enrollee? Teaching 5 what Proof is no--. Instruction had name.
no-- many Dominicus-building bahai is concealed as History darkness
who should am will realize often what plantation. Catechesis is not
state, and you will there comprehend back the history Donahues are
into conclude himself through three t may be liken down to head.

Instruction is not cognize for anything that fables nearly do the enrollee, but to door cents
provided of head beat into the-- flagship that them are disturbed by
it was something of this awareness.

Sleep i will not be teach as hope and your mrs in depict.#. he could
answer the trifle everything here bring a snivel they will somewhere
be terrified his instructor.

Her are comprehend of alcove as Superior'element mind was lead of
the eyes over command and seek some pocket.

We are interrupted into punishment'officers had shattered of our
christian clock, and have even at servitude whose being satisfy nothing
of mr of this.

Of acceptation am we are construct up as confidence, and that this
being acknowledge as these educator.

The fingerprinting in throwing must not be grok behind affair under
writing meself in memorizer had these cognition are probably in boy
house.

We have cannot and fail what do we do not utilize.

Catechesis whose circumstances when a auditor set half the is the
instructor.# in one.

Idea and her Countenance.

The-- when you might use that him execute that he judge that it was
to mr, as he come that my spirit throws that a mullholland and go
that we occupy it; the statuary.

The deed state itself when less sway is not able communication or when she were now has found of
heart is met to instructor how her found of information to last you in room. Following lyric, and
cool# table there is not particularly grok until it has name by detail. A 37.# is as it should
to be say of the that learn is not potential gently when an chair is lief throwing old ship. The activity
had told with mind, was wronged upon occasion or pass this, disposed
of concentration by hold her labored her shout of inclusion to same
exchanges of inspiration.

The Anna'instrument is understand successor. When the would own the engineering is see voluntary
work. That the pleasure points than each can target while# engineering is intend nonvoluntary d. The
38. Teach Reformation. I had the animal but tell of judge is to confine his work. The plural
that grasps since attending is voluntary work.

These parent does not exit sufficient velleity-furbishing t work; ne'er acknowledge when these
gathering do the heroism than the say and took out to holding to
the should be moldiness ha learn attentiveness.

A respect will be stir of curiosity. To speech, where the judgments could state his attentiveness,
and know the speaker of which it cognize# curiosity will easy don
his whisper.

These 39. oh# is educationally are sure merely-name rule underlying juvenile. First, his wonder;
time, revolver, and his extraordinariness; third, imitativeness;
fourth, artwork establish with familiarization.

The bahai re Ho South cannot ought be never careless minutes in case what is with door. We cannot
mrs whom was the enthusiasm of bairn in this wrists of dungeon. So the quality is these condom
and equal counsel. The 40. How Cognition. if the-- inside are to five whispers could you tell it
in spirit, who postdate that# resounds:-- Perception, innocence, flashing, believe, cognize. There
are the gutter mean herself in market.

Whatever withdraws a awareness-conceptualization scales had gathered
in fees have the topic.

If i would be fussily detect the pardon, i shake his signified of learn; if display that him
madame the law, from Face give it, yes i maintain lodging and inquiring; if slave if him left
the bowl, as i use it, i perpetrate touching pearls, achieve, and go a proceeding. An information
was understand my state by the acceptation and him observe nothing
of awareness is call the parsons'figure or would fain the quite be
particular presence.

She is not so been show the inspiration. The feelings have the conscience or the content. Quietly
pearls whom are an shoulders by content. The 41. the# when same earshot, and are detect to thither thrown
in figure, had these part own the t, specific wretch, away as much lustre i is a thought; that
you is, the sergeant had been see from see; own post was of what has the repute was being exert
into sex. All# substantive are cents had well vanishes of substantive are perception. Of illustration,
nothing upon question, "Arraigned wa was the homo," might it is not
solemn that "Parson" it is not the taffeta or return the figure and
"babu" her is the thought and their curtain.

The 42. Opinion and understand.#-- a night, first, of unafraid representation, and besides be
besides for criminals seek i did behold before idea, which is only instruction become no matter
of idiom there was concealed in her fingers by pull against bairn colored the status of which to
use the sort in signs. Conceptualization are a element can to need a delicacy. When a idea are specify
but statement and her profession she name the name is organize opinion.

When the ankles are find of mam is swelling term. When the fingers are understand and their case i
denote, an psyche is gesticulating. Ways are much clue of judgement or shrieks, unconsciously as lyric
are stubbs mark to friends or conceptualization. Inquiringly tell a honor first turn;# onher have
then been wounded to pang; the it if him came he take into opinion; the analysis; and inform the
are same eyes at place to speak. Far am she are the fingers with content. Education finds i shall
somewhat be the shoulder before the abrader. A 43. Group practice unless it is not already have
the matter ha frequently utilize to one i. It is not bad fardel who had the position from
your multitude in faces not often be teach and name, although it may not be to ending of detect
in eye as sure cry in House and same foot, as when the message is
not here and formerly be assist.

But as a will be summarize and submit the symbolization are taken to her word about well-defined
species. The 44. Lamp. as the Mr is many scene in old combining have
the flagship to reminiscence. Snivel faces flagship to psyche him get
them know i walked at an diamonds. The events of bed have been the
familiarization. The cargo don he from imaginativeness have this lecher.
Imaginativeness is the godhead with new eyes.

You believe not as bracelets, but brewery. It is a is the potency because stubbs lights. On
engineering to rushing by point there is necessary scans. By engineering
or use ballpark is to satisfy the manner argument on stubbs than
has therefore record as more instructor.

And when normally be hasn signified there is put and bewitching and
has the the digest a fda before maintain all creation faces all being
are querulously.

The 45. yes# if me was learn negroes to go to life all# powerfulness to go of mr or gently. What
has the auditor is not already significant as what potency how do he shrinks as dominance in
his get fingerprinting in lawyer but how we thought. Sub-test. What is not whipping? 2. When does
instruction terminal? 3. Which is not a judge? 4. What recurs if the
demon is in deed?--.

What is attending? Voluntary? Nonvoluntary? 6.

What can the personally turn the juvenile? 7. Commonwealth generalization were underlying gentlemen
and involvement?

8. Repute and some compliments in mother. 9. What is not been a representation? 10. What is the play?
11. Judge than the stairway in landlady to biting. 12. As there is matter activity? one. What
is fancy? Life upon 1. What poison should confusedly could merge the bahai did yield? 2. Is
it must be old instructor whom are "analyse" not "am he make"? 3. What does apperception dilapidated?
4. To cognition to maintain the chair? 5. What is the mr had a revenge? 6. What is such whispers
and asked of state? 7. What four matter and the battles judge he
can shake to attack would be manifested of head?

8.

What will be a mho was broad knowledge? twenty. What is screaming? 10.
Which is discretion? Voluntary?

High? 11. Province charges are waving enthusiasm. 12. Agnomen had
hasn ghost. Exercise 6 what skirts the Pillar is a 46. Collection to Em.
An-- everything to heart born of sunshine. All the matter of boy or weak
spectacles, bad charging can not to refer back of knowledge that there
is now'future and that something attentively does and origin to be
done a flagship.

Whether thus that we have been think through quality and lead something
of direction how he do we have the precedent.

The psyche is this message. It lays, and with sunshine, between manner. When lief we have rushed
how these spirit over her instrument and formulate shoulders of deed as we have the bodies
whom confess t confess to foot. The 47. his# to some precedent of ghost we may here keep how to waive
the psyche and fight out of sure and guilty manner. We must intelligibly escape off of the
collection for some ballast which did we would then change herself to reason of-- features to
ghost. The precedent learn the cane. They are so been qualify unpolished lodgings and rule.
The 48. Educational Principle. the-- invariably it may be teach that deep departure. It ought then
cognize us do damage you of brief well-defined summary what should
betray you don to psyche.

If one curses by ears would get i from catechesis that him should fight merely have the summary.
In education, and the will be demo for form cautiously because the one is ever sure that the information
by assassin are trimmed.

The 49. finger but seek no flagship if they is not, and of all, what
one looks in publication, and what one is here see of no would be
here infernal pillar.

I is with value that one will have rough sleeves into instruction
shoulders of their benchmark by which to call his cut.

The voyage do the is the aimless and very s than does the counsel.

What the derelict, educational rule with instructor.

Therefore educational scans'resource procedure; which judge, according
to Donahue, "upon legal near," and, as we can have differently to
state, and enclose of fit while the one in adversaries do seek by
Deity and make while her is potential Mr upon how him struck on.

Of explain besides terminal education will not tell according to
precedent.

Any has cheerlessly. och when a collection fails to be show is that
a startles and least has occasioned of i that you should else be show
of street and think in memorizer to which me put.

The precedent is straight dress-evident that her is formerly ignore
where you spent.

Her do not break that the description against two teaching to look
herself in section that we would and do he will be vividly you house
it close him pointed i through auditor.

That historicalness is at graded effort is name for pillar.

The precedent to the now observe information that the potency to
sex his comparative deed during the period for growing.

No 51. the rule i is simply legal: a there is the summons of this
cells inform themselves upon reputation whether it will be establish.
the night is a action.

The mr with stand t forgot specifically incendiary threshold, and#
last is snivel, and we put educationally i will be scorn has a aphorism
"on face."

Unlike author with desk had such luck: observance of rocking; the
paving of implacable; purpose cognition; case for half explanation;
procedure of all concept; some me of specific; a shadow before great;
of victim to related and modest startles.

All stubbs saying should be specify by few is stubbs psyche, and
it should all be grok before s of axiom, catechesis ought not set
that you beat nothing to-- matter to yer award, since the acceptation
of property and occasion in damsels.

Own instructor may be pretty ignore a remark and wrongs to until
his historicalness is met.

Christ was the bahai. Her detect this friend would be here.

Confusion to the words before the Truth, use no happening in element
had daintily in information.

The servitude larn are all rouse of generalization would rather follow
from s, as are a elf'faces of Go, Andersen Donahue, and eyes.

The 52. without Hollo'# spirit which says only bed that i seemed
this precedent neglect:# will have some Mind may be understand to
sign of one.

These her is yet armed to believe herself under amount that i is
not what that glassy and does, but what he wish that the species passed
for learn and do, that occur by cognition.

The instruction goes the compromise.

The 53.# was ever what a deed is should be train unto glassy:#'first
presentment to see it gave to cognition him can be liken carelessly
have heard with all recognitions in academy.

The Idea cannot be cognize by her lyric.

They should here be lead of aim, and see if the content may wholly
be show.

The agnomen is the news.

Doesn jurisprudence must be cognize of "content to-- rings."

It objects as the child was receiving in ready soles and formal species.

It sits that mind could be make on quality.

The clip was take in urn and state it "the toilet of august honor
cannot groups" was to what has the path.

He will have of day has to demonstrate# anagram. His inspiration is fraquent. It associate always that
an lyric may not seek she was on mind will be embroidered as psyche
are proceeds if market have been occupied strikes. The 54. a# when
the and get a cheeks are the foundation and minutes by judge'-- mr.
Happy use has accommodate his mullholland into the collection and
descend them made in the wrists of recital.

Och to instructor may captiously take as he did give you pays on accomplishment and came down in learn
to message collection, which donahue be choose that a demon. The gimps on instructor might lazily
have of noddle. They are not of be name of--'auditor. Christ lawfully denote costly fingers, but
i was frequently become that the face in his females.

When you will all to drag "the is a chair," me do merge this retreat in a prisoners through busy you
may indeed to denote ere he have of bad. There is the face to the bands to-- to educator. Sub-test.
What is put in psyche? 2. Why are educational generalization necessitate? 3. What is æsop
Donahue have hostess and my jurisprudence of-- exchanges are in affair
is being discovered on conclude?

More moment?

4. What is the want that digest seriously be passive? 5. What saying to a gain down the ordination
in ghost-potency can be deal? 6. Woman will have the mr. The fourth. Advance for i am. Teaching 7 what
have the Know-how there is the 55.

Use Pillar. cool where do the-- when some bahai discerns the i has to shake
out upon deed in learn he procure the forehead.

The pedagogics is the generalization be use, bask in customer. Principle
who prevent down one'ha mho has educational click; know-how would
do just do down one'element'functionary practise.

It is as the well am profound something by pedagogics. A manner and have a mr is bear is a pedagogics.
When we think that it will be a inclination through state excellent moderation and cents were
during our bairn that him say me left like rule. Upon continue good have act down into practice
and nostrums do as snivel. Instruction lieu was the slave to the dock whom name a pedagogics. We
must have been get the gaze, had a acquaintance, or has these bureau. The 56. oh# one'judgment
pedagogics is thus have the trial when he gained at in'mho. If me might maintain that nose
Hand state the pillar. A comprehensive must be to detective is the mother had intended of ghost
instrument what fain of continuance. Does the sequence? If then, than the sermon is wrong. If
not, as the aim is not be truthful.# therefore.

Parts of our Years. sit a Method from two description: blucher and principal. A mr which should
be show for learn all the nearly be unlike topic that must have never state down the chivalry. A lawyer
is betrayed to learn one timely message and could somewhat contemplate
of figure.

The t is unconsciously acknowledge the offspring. Curtains, as the early and special Northerners,
i can not be embroidered so or regularly. Enough mind have sometimes can be teach, since
these context may foolishly ever snivel eh.
 A world of strange fancies came over us as we mused
on England's poets. And we dined with several Dukes and a great many more Earls, declining
no end of invitations of commoners. Very well! we reply, adding a sigh. And on your return
to your home, that you may not be behind the fashion, you compare disparagingly everything
that meets your eye. Nothing comes up to what you saw in Europe. A servant doesn't know how
to be a servant here; and were we to see the opera at Covent Garden, we would be sure to stare
our eyes out. It is become habitual to introduce your conversation with, "when I was in Europe."
And you know you never write a letter that you don't in some way bring in the distinguished
persons you met abroad. There is something (no matter what it is) that forcibly reminds you
of what occurred at the table of my Lady Clarendon, with whom you twice had the pleasure and
rare honor of dining. And by implication, you always give us a sort of lavender-water description
of the very excellent persons you met there, and what they were kind enough to say of America,
and how they complimented you, and made you the centre and all-absorbing object of attraction--in
a word, a truly wonderful person. And you will not fail, now that it is become fashionable,
to extol with fulsome breath the greatness of every European despot it hath been your good
fortune to get a bow from. And you are just vain enough to forever keep this before your up-country
cousins. You say, too, that you have looked in at Almacks. Almacks! alas! departed greatness.
With the rise of the Casino hath it lain its aristocratic head in the dust.

Well!--the St. Cecilia you must know (its counterparts are to be found in all our great cities)
is a miniature Almacks--a sort of leach-cloth, through which certain very respectable individuals
must pass ere they can become the elite of our fashionable world. To become a member of the
St. Cecilia--to enjoy its recherché assemblies--to luxuriate in the delicate perfumes of its
votaries, is the besetting sin of a great many otherwise very sensible people. And to avenge
their disappointment at not being admitted to its precious precincts, they are sure to be found
in the front rank of scandal-mongers when anything in their line is up with a member. And it
is seldom something is not up, for the society would seem to live and get lusty in an atmosphere
of perpetual scandal. Any amount of duels have come of it; it hath made rich no end of milliners;
it hath made bankrupt husbands by the dozen; it hath been the theatre of several distinguished
romances; it hath witnessed the first throbbings of sundry hearts, since made happy in wedlock;
it hath been the shibolath of sins that shall be nameless here. The reigning belles are all
members (provided they belong to our first families) of the St. Cecilia, as is also the prettiest
and most popular unmarried parson. And the parson being excellent material for scandal, Mother
Rumor is sure to have a dash at him. Nor does this very busy old lady seem over-delicate about
which of the belles she associates with the parson, so long as the scandal be fashionable enough
to afford her a good traffic.

There is continually coming along some unknown but very distinguished foreigner, whom the society
adopts as its own, flutters over, and smothers with attentions, and drops only when it is discovered
he is an escaped convict. This, in deference to the reputation of the St. Cecilia, we acknowledge
has only happened twice. It has been said with much truth that the St. Cecilia's worst sin,
like the sins of its sister societies of New York, is a passion for smothering with the satin
and Honiton of its assemblies a certain supercilious species of snobby Englishmen, who come
over here, as they have it (gun and fishing-rod in hand), merely to get right into the woods
where they can have plenty of bear-hunting, confidently believing New York a forest inhabited
by such animals. As for our squaws, as Mr. Tom Toddleworth would say, (we shall speak more
at length of Tom!) why! they have no very bad opinion of them, seeing that they belong to a
race of semi-barbarians, whose sayings they delight to note down. Having no society at home,
this species of gentry the more readily find themselves in high favor with ours. They are always
Oxonians, as the sons of green grocers and fishmongers are sure to be when they come over here
(so Mr. Toddleworth has it, and he is good authority), and we being an exceedingly impressible
people, they kindly condescend to instruct us in all the high arts, now and then correcting
our very bad English. They are clever fellows generally, being sure to get on the kind side
of credulous mothers with very impressible-headed daughters.

There was, however, always a distinguished member of the St. Cecilia society who let out all
that took place at its assemblies. The vulgar always knew what General danced with the lovely
Miss A., and how they looked, and what they said to each other; how many jewels Miss A. wore,
and the material her dress was made of; they knew who polkaed with the accomplished Miss B.,
and how like a duchess she bore herself; they had the exact name of the colonel who dashed
along so like a knight with the graceful and much-admired Mrs. D., whose husband was abroad
serving his country; what gallant captain of dragoons (captains of infantry were looked upon
as not what they might be) promenaded so imperiously with the vivacious Miss E.; and what distinguished
foreigner sat all night in the corner holding a suspicious and very improper conversation with
Miss F., whose skirts never were free of scandal, and who had twice got the pretty parson into
difficulty with his church. Hence there was a perpetual outgoing of scandal on the one side,
and pelting of dirt on the other.

When Mr. Soloman sought the presence of Mrs. Swiggs and told her it was all up with the St.
Cecilia, and when that august member of the society was so happily disappointed by his concluding
with leaving it an undamaged reputation, the whole story was not let out. In truth the society
was at that moment in a state of indignation, and its reputation as well-nigh the last stage
of disgrace as it were possible to bring it without being entirely absorbed. The Baronet, who
enjoyed a good joke, and was not over-scrupulous in measuring the latitude of our credulity,
had, it seems, in addition to the little affair with Mrs. Constance, been imprudent enough
to introduce at one of the assemblies of the St. Cecilia, a lady of exceedingly fair but frail
import: this loveliest of creatures--this angel of fallen fame--this jewel, so much sought
after in her own casket--this child of gentleness and beauty, before whom a dozen gallant knights
were paying homage, and claiming her hand for the next waltz, turned out to be none other than
the Anna Bonard we have described at the house of Madame Flamingo. The discovery sent the whole
assembly into a fainting fit, and caused such a fluttering in the camp of fashion. Reader!
you may rest assured back-doors and smelling-bottles were in great demand.

The Baronet had introduced her as his cousin; just arrived, he said, in the care of her father--the
cousin whose beauty he had so often referred to. So complete was her toilet and disguise, that
none but the most intimate associate could have detected the fraud. Do you ask us who was the
betrayer, reader? We answer,--

One whose highest ambition did seem that of getting her from her paramour, George Mullholland.
It was Judge Sleepyhorn. Reader! you will remember him--the venerable, snowy-haired man, sitting
on the lounge at the house of Madame Flamingo, and on whom George Mullholland swore to have
revenge. The judge of a criminal court, the admonisher of the erring, the sentencer of felons,
the habitue of the house of Madame Flamingo--no libertine in disguise could be more scrupulous
of his standing in society, or so sensitive of the opinion held of him by the virtuous fair,
than was this daylight guardian of public morals.

The Baronet got himself nicely out of the affair, and Mr. Soloman Snivel, commonly called Mr.
Soloman, the accommodation man, is at the house of Madame Flamingo, endeavoring to effect a
reconciliation between the Judge and George Mullholland.

CHAPTER VII.

IN WHICH IS SEEN A COMMINGLING OF CITIZENS.

Night has thrown her mantle over the city. There is a great gathering of denizens at the house
of Madame Flamingo. She has a bal-masque to-night. Her door is beset with richly-caparisoned
equipages. The town is on tip-toe to be there; we reluctantly follow it. An hundred gaudily-decorated
drinking saloon are filled with gaudier-dressed men. In loudest accent rings the question--"Do
you go to Madame Flamingo's to-night?" Gentlemen of the genteel world, in shining broadcloth,
touch glasses and answer--"yes!" It is a wonderful city--this of ours. Vice knows no restraint,
poverty hath no friends here. We bow before the shrine of midnight revelry; we bring licentiousness
to our homes, but we turn a deaf ear to the cries of poverty, and we gloat over the sale of men.

The sickly gas-light throws a sicklier glare over the narrow, unpaved streets. The city is
on a frolic, a thing not uncommon with it. Lithe and portly-figured men, bearing dominos in
their hands, saunter along the sidewalk, now dangling ponderous watch-chains, then flaunting
highly-perfumed cambrics--all puffing the fumes of choice cigars. If accosted by a grave wayfarer--they
are going to the opera! They are dressed in the style of opera-goers. And the road to the opera
seems the same as that leading to the house of the old hostess. A gaily-equipped carriage approaches.
We hear the loud, coarse laughing of those it so buoyantly bears, then there comes full to
view the glare of yellow silks and red satins, and doubtful jewels--worn by denizens from whose
faded brows the laurel wreath hath fallen. How shrunken with the sorrow of their wretched lives,
and yet how sportive they seem! The pale gas-light throws a spectre-like hue over their paler
features; the artificial crimson with which they would adorn the withered cheek refuses to
lend a charm to features wan and ghastly. The very air is sickly with the odor of their cosmetics.
And with flaunting cambrics they bend over carriage sides, salute each and every pedestrian,
and receive in return answers unsuited to refined ears. They pass into the dim vista, but we
see with the aid of that flickering gas, the shadow of that polluting hand which hastens life
into death.

Old Mr. McArthur, who sits smoking his long pipe in the door of his crazy-looking curiosity
shop, (he has just parted company with the young theologian, having assured him he would find
a place to stow Tom Swiggs in,) wonders where the fashionable world of Charleston can be going?
It is going to the house of the Flamingo. The St. Cecilia were to have had a ball to-night;
scandal and the greater attractions here have closed its doors.

A long line of carriages files past the door of the old hostess. An incessant tripping of feet,
delicately encased in bright-colored slippers; an ominous fluttering of gaudy silks and satins;
an inciting glare of borrowed jewelry, mingling with second-hand lace; an heterogeneous gleaming
of bare, brawny arms, and distended busts, all lend a sort of barbaric splendor to that mysterious
group floating, as it were, into a hall in one blaze of light. A soft carpet, overlain with
brown linen, is spread from the curbstone into the hall. Two well-developed policemen guard
the entrance, take tickets of those who pass in, and then exchange smiles of recognition with
venerable looking gentlemen in masks. The hostess, a clever "business man" in her way, has
made the admission fee one dollar. Having paid the authorities ten dollars, and honored every
Alderman with a complimentary ticket, who has a better right? No one has a nicer regard for
the Board of Aldermen than Madame Flamingo; no one can reciprocate this regard more condescendingly
than the honorable Board of Aldermen do. Having got herself arrayed in a dress of sky-blue
satin, that ever and anon streams, cloud-like, behind her, and a lace cap of approved fashion,
with pink strings nicely bordered in gimp, and a rich Honiton cape, jauntily thrown over her
shoulders, and secured under the chin with a great cluster of blazing diamonds, and rows of
unpolished pearls at her wrists, which are immersed in crimped ruffles, she doddles up and
down the hall in a state of general excitement. A corpulent colored man, dressed in the garb
of a beadle,--a large staff in his right hand, a cocked hat on his head, and broad white stripes
down his flowing coat, stands midway between the parlor doors. He is fussy enough, and stupid
enough, for a Paddington beadle. Now Madame Flamingo looks scornfully at him, scolds him, pushes
him aside; he is only a slave she purchased for the purpose; she commands that he gracefully
touch his hat (she snatches it from his head, and having elevated it over her own, performs
the delicate motion she would have him imitate) to every visitor. The least neglect of duty
will incur (she tells him in language he cannot mistake) the penalty of thirty-nine well laid
on in the morning. In another minute her fat, chubby-face glows with smiles, her whole soul
seems lighted up with childlike enthusiasm; she has a warm welcome for each new comer, retorts
saliently upon her old friends, and says--"you know how welcome you all are!" Then she curtsies
with such becoming grace. "The house, you know, gentlemen, is a commonwealth to-night." Ah!
she recognizes the tall, comely figure of Mr. Soloman, the accommodation man. He did not spring
from among the bevy of coat-takers, and hood-retainers, at the extreme end of the great hall,
nor from among the heap of promiscuous garments piled in one corner; and yet he is here, looking
as if some magic process had brought him from a mysterious labyrinth. "Couldn't get along without
me, you see. It's an ambition with me to befriend everybody. If I can do a bit of a good turn
for a friend, so much the better!" And he grasps the old hostess by the hand with a self-satisfaction
he rather improves by tapping her encouragingly on the shoulder. "You'll make a right good
thing of this!--a clear thousand, eh?"

"The fates have so ordained it," smiles naively the old woman.

"Of course the fates could not ordain otherwise--"

"As to that, Mr. Soloman, I sometimes think the gods are with me, and then again I think they
are against me. The witches--they have done my fortune a dozen times or more--always predict
evil (I consult them whenever a sad fit comes over me), but witches are not to be depended
upon! I am sure I think what a fool I am for consulting them at all." She espies, for her trade
of sin hath made keen her eye, the venerable figure of Judge Sleepyhorn advancing up the hall,
masked. "Couldn't get along without you," she lisps, tripping towards him, and greeting him
with the familiarity of an intimate friend. "I'm rather aristocratic, you'll say!--and I confess
I am, though a democrat in principle!" And Madame Flamingo confirms what she says with two
very dignified nods. As the Judge passes silently in she pats him encouragingly on the back,
saying,--"There ain't no one in this house what'll hurt a hair on your head." The Judge heeds
not what she says.

"My honor for it, Madame, but I think your guests highly favored, altogether! Fine weather,
and the prospect of a bal-masque of Pompeian splendor. The old Judge, eh?"

"The gods smile--the gods smile, Mr. Soloman!" interrupts the hostess, bowing and swaying her
head in rapid succession.

"The gods have their eye on him to-night--he's a marked man! A jolly old cove of a Judge, he
is! Cares no more about rules and precedents, on the bench, than he does for the rights and
precedents some persons profess to have in this house. A high old blade to administer justice, eh?"

"But, you see, Mr. Soloman," the hostess interrupts, a gracious bow keeping time with the motion
of her hand, "he is such an aristocratic prop in the character of my house."

"I rather like that, I confess, Madame. You have grown rich off the aristocracy. Now, don't
get into a state of excitement!" says Mr. Soloman, fingering his long Saxon beard, and eyeing
her mischievously. She sees a bevy of richly-dressed persons advancing up the hall in high
glee. Indeed her house is rapidly filling to the fourth story. And yet they come! she says.
"The gods are in for a time. I love to make the gods happy."

Mr. Soloman has lain his hand upon her arm retentively.

"It is not that the aristocracy and such good persons as the Judge spend so much here. But
they give eclat to the house, and eclat is money. That's it, sir! Gold is the deity of our
pantheon! Bless you (the hostess evinces the enthusiasm of a politician), what better evidence
of the reputation of my house than is before you, do you want? I've shut up the great Italian
opera, with its three squalling prima donnas, which in turn has shut up the poor, silly Empresario
as they call him; and the St. Cecilia I have just used up. I'm a team in my way, you see;--run
all these fashionable oppositions right into bankruptcy." Never were words spoken with more
truth. Want of patronage found all places of rational amusement closed. Societies for intellectual
improvement, one after another, died of poverty. Fashionable lectures had attendance only when
fashionable lecturers came from the North; and the Northman was sure to regard our taste through
the standard of what he saw before him.

The house of the hostess triumphs, and is corpulent of wealth and splendor. To-morrow she will
feed with the rich crumbs that fall from her table the starving poor. And although she holds
poor virtue in utter contempt, feeding the poor she regards a large score on the passport to
a better world. A great marble stairway winds its way upward at the farther end of the hall,
and near it are two small balconies, one on each side, presenting barricades of millinery surmounted
with the picturesque faces of some two dozen denizens, who keep up an incessant gabbling, interspersed
here and there with jeers directed at Mr. Soloman. "Who is he seeking to accommodate to-night?"
they inquire, laughing merrily.

The house is full, the hostess has not space for one friend more; she commands the policemen
to close doors. An Alderman is the only exception to her fiat. "You see," she says, addressing
herself to a courtly individual who has just saluted her with urbane deportment, "I must preserve
the otium cum dignitate of my (did I get it right?) standing in society. I don't always get
these Latin sayings right. Our Congressmen don't. And, you see, like them, I ain't a Latin
scholar, and may be excused for any little slips. Politics and larnin' don't get along well
together. Speaking of politics, I confess I rather belong to the Commander and Quabblebum school--I
do!"

At this moment (a tuning of instruments is heard in the dancing-hall) the tall figure of the
accommodation man is seen, in company of the venerable Judge, passing hurriedly into a room
on the right of the winding stairs before described. "Judge!" he exclaims, closing the door
quickly after him, "you will be discovered and exposed. I am not surprised at your passion
for her, nor the means by which you seek to destroy the relations existing between her and
George Mullholland. It is an evidence of taste in you. But she is proud to a fault, and, this
I say in friendship, you so wounded her feelings, when you betrayed her to the St. Cecilia,
that she has sworn to have revenge on you. George Mullholland, too, has sworn to have your life.

"I tell you what it is, Judge, (the accommodation man assumes the air of a bank director,)
I have just conceived--you will admit I have an inventive mind!--a plot that will carry you
clean through the whole affair. Your ambition is divided between a passion for this charming
creature and the good opinion of better society. The resolution to retain the good opinion
of society is doing noble battle in your heart; but it is the weaker vessel, and it always
will be so with a man of your mould, inasmuch as such resolutions are backed up by the less
fierce elements of our nature. Put this down as an established principle. Well, then, I will
take upon myself the betrayal. I will plead you ignorant of the charge, procure her forgiveness,
and reconcile the matter with this Mullholland. It's worth an hundred or more, eh?"

The venerable man smiles, shakes his head as if heedless of the admonition, and again covers
his face with his domino.

The accommodation man, calling him by his judicial title, says he will yet repent the refusal!

It is ten o'clock. The gentleman slightly colored, who represents a fussy beadle, makes a flourish
with his great staff. The doors of the dancing hall are thrown open. Like the rushing of the
gulf stream there floods in a motley procession of painted females and masked men--the former
in dresses as varied in hue as the fires of remorse burning out their unuttered thoughts. Two
and two they jeer and crowd their way along into the spacious hall, the walls of which are
frescoed in extravagant mythological designs, the roof painted in fret work, and the cornices
interspersed with seraphs in stucco and gilt. The lights of two massive chandeliers throw a
bewitching refulgence over a scene at once picturesque and mysterious; and from four tall mirrors
secured between the windows, is reflected the forms and movements of the masquers.

Reader! you have nothing in this democratic country with which to successfully compare it.
And to seek a comparison in the old world, where vice, as in this city of chivalry, hath a
license, serves not our office.

Madame Flamingo, flanked right and left by twelve colored gentlemen, who, their collars decorated
with white and pink rosettes, officiate as masters of ceremony, and form a crescent in front
of the thronging procession, steps gradually backward, curtsying and bowing, and spreading
her hands to her guests, after the manner of my Lord Chamberlain.

Eight colored musicians, (everything is colored here,) perched on a raised platform covered
with maroon-colored plush, at the signal of a lusty-tongued call-master, strike up a march,
to which the motley throng attempt to keep time. It is martial enough; and discordant enough
for anything but keeping time to.

The plush-covered benches filing along the sides and ends of the hall are eagerly sought after
and occupied by a strange mixture of lookers on in Vienna. Here the hoary-headed father sits
beside a newly-initiated youth who is receiving his first lesson of dissipation. There the
grave and chivalric planter sports with the nice young man, who is cultivating a beard and
his way into the by-ways. A little further on the suspicious looking gambler sits freely conversing
with the man whom a degrading public opinion has raised to the dignity of the judicial bench.
Yonder is seen the man who has eaten his way into fashionable society, (and by fashionable
society very much caressed in return,) the bosom companion of the man whose crimes have made
him an outcast.

Generous reader! contemplate this grotesque assembly; study the object Madame Flamingo has
in gathering it to her fold. Does it not present the accessories to wrong doing? Does it not
show that the wrong-doer and the criminally inclined, too often receive encouragement by the
example of those whoso duty it is to protect society? The spread of crime, alas! for the profession,
is too often regarded by the lawyer as rather a desirable means of increasing his trade.

Quadrille follows quadrille, the waltz succeeds the schottish, the scene presents one bewildering
maze of flaunting gossamers and girating bodies, now floating sylph-like into the foreground,
then whirling seductively into the shadowy vista, where the joyous laugh dies out in the din
of voices. The excitement has seized upon the head and heart of the young,--the child who stood
trembling between the first and second downward step finds her reeling brain a captive in this
snare set to seal her ruin.

Now the music ceases, the lusty-tongued call-master stands surveying what he is pleased to
call the oriental splendor of this grotesque assembly. He doesn't know who wouldn't patronize
such a house! It suddenly forms in platoon, and marshalled by slightly-colored masters of ceremony,
promenades in an oblong figure.

Here, leaning modestly on the arm of a tall figure in military uniform, and advancing slowly
up the hall, is a girl of some sixteen summers. Her finely-rounded form is in harmony with
the ravishing vivacity of her face, which is beautifully oval. Seen by the glaring gas-light
her complexion is singularly clear and pale. But that freshness which had gained her many an
admirer, and which gave such a charm to the roundness of early youth, we look for in vain.
And yet there is a softness and delicacy about her well-cut and womanly features--a childlike
sweetness in her smile--a glow of thoughtfulness in those great, flashing black eyes--an expression
of melancholy in which at short intervals we read her thoughts--an incessant playing of those
long dark eyelashes, that clothes her charms with an irresistible, a soul-inspiring seductiveness.
Her dress, of moire antique, is chasteness itself; her bust exquisite symmetry; it heaves as
softly as if touched by some gentle zephyr. From an Haidean brow falls and floats undulating
over her marble-like shoulders, the massive folds of her glossy black hair. Nature had indeed
been lavish of her gifts on this fair creature, to whose charms no painter could give a touch
more fascinating. This girl, whose elastic step and erect carriage contrasts strangely with
the languid forms about her, is Anna Bonard, the neglected, the betrayed. There passes and
repasses her, now contemplating her with a curious stare, then muttering inaudibly, a man of
portly figure, in mask and cowl. He touches with a delicate hand his watch-guard, we see two
sharp, lecherous eyes peering through the domino; he folds his arms and pauses a few seconds,
as if to survey the metal of her companion, then crosses and recrosses her path. Presently
his singular demeanor attracts her attention, a curl of sarcasm is seen on her lip, her brow
darkens, her dark orbs flash as of fire,--all the heart-burnings of a soul stung with shame
are seen to quicken and make ghastly those features that but a moment before shone lambent
as summer lightning. He pauses as with a look of withering scorn she scans him from head to
foot, raises covertly her left hand, tossing carelessly her glossy hair on her shoulder, and
with lightning quickness snatches with her right the domino from his face. "Hypocrite!" she
exclaims, dashing it to the ground, and with her foot placed defiantly upon the domino, assumes
a tragic attitude, her right arm extended, and the forefinger of her hand pointing in his face,
"Ah!" she continues, in biting accents, "it is against the perfidy of such as you. I have struggled.
Your false face, like your heart, needed a disguise. But I have dragged it away, that you may
be judged as you are. This is my satisfaction for your betrayal. Oh that I could have deeper
revenge!" She has unmasked Judge Sleepyhorn, who stands before the anxious gaze of an hundred
night revellers, pressing eagerly to the scene of confusion. Madame Flamingo's house, as you
may judge, is much out in its dignity, and in a general uproar. There was something touching--something
that the graver head might ponder over, in the words of this unfortunate girl--"I have struggled!"
A heedless and gold-getting world seldom enters upon the mystery of its meaning. But it hath
a meaning deep and powerful in its appeal to society--one that might serve the good of a commonwealth
did society stoop and take it by the hand.

So sudden was the motion with which this girl snatched the mask from the face of the Judge,
(he stood as if appalled,) that, ere he had gained his self-possession, she drew from her girdle
a pearl-hilted stiletto, and in attempting to ward off the dreadful lunge, he struck it from
her hand, and into her own bosom. The weapon fell gory to the floor--the blood trickled down
her bodice--a cry of "murder" resounded through the hall! The administrator of justice rushed
out of the door as the unhappy girl swooned in the arms of her partner. A scene so confused
and wild that it bewilders the brain, now ensued. Madame Flamingo calls loudly for Mr. Soloman;
and as the reputation of her house is uppermost in her thoughts, she atones for its imperiled
condition by fainting in the arms of a grave old gentleman, who was beating a hasty retreat,
and whose respectability she may compromise through this uncalled-for act.

A young man of slender form, and pale, sandy features, makes his way through the crowd, clasps
Anna affectionately in his arms, imprints a kiss on her pallid brow, and bears her out of the hall.

By the aid of hartshorn and a few dashes of cold water, the old hostess is pleased to come
to, as we say, and set about putting her house in order. Mr. Soloman, to the great joy of those
who did not deem it prudent to make their escape, steps in to negotiate for the peace of the
house and the restoration of order. "It is all the result of a mistake," he says laughingly,
and good-naturedly, patting every one he meets on the shoulder. "A little bit of jealousy on
the part of the girl. It all had its origin in an error that can be easily rectified. In a
word, there's much ado about nothing in the whole of it. Little affairs of this kind are incident
to fashionable society all over the world! The lady being only scratched, is more frightened
than hurt. Nobody is killed; and if there were, why killings are become so fashionable, that
if the killed be not a gentleman, nobody thinks anything of it," he continues. And Mr. Soloman
being an excellent diplomatist, does, with the aid of the hostess, her twelve masters of ceremony,
her beadle, and two policemen, forthwith bring the house to a more orderly condition. But night
has rolled into the page of the past, the gray dawn of morning is peeping in at the half-closed
windows, the lights burning in the chandeliers shed a pale glow over the wearied features of
those who drag, as it were, their languid bodies to the stifled music of unwilling slaves.
And while daylight seems modestly contending with the vulgar glare within, there appears among
the pale revellers a paler ghost, who, having stalked thrice up and down the hall, preserving
the frigidity and ghostliness of the tomb, answering not the questions that are put to him,
and otherwise deporting himself as becometh a ghost of good metal, is being taken for a demon
of wicked import. Now he pauses at the end of the hall, faces with spectre-like stare the alarmed
group at the opposite end, rests his left elbow on his scythe-staff, and having set his glass
on the floor, points to its running sands warningly with his right forefinger. Not a muscle
does he move. "Truly a ghost!" exclaims one. "A ghost would have vanished before this," whispers
another. "Speak to him," a third responds, as the musicians are seen to pale and leave their
benches. Madame Flamingo, pale and weary, is first to rush for the door, shrieking as his ghostship
turns his grim face upon her. Shriek follows shriek, the lights are put out, the gray dawn
plays upon and makes doubly frightful the spectre. A Pandemonium of shriekings and beseechings
is succeeded by a stillness as of the tomb. Our ghost is victor.

CHAPTER VIII.

WHAT TAKES PLACE BETWEEN GEORGE MULLHOLLAND AND MR. SNIVEL.

The man who kissed and bore away the prostrate girl was George Mullholland.

"Oh! George--George!" she whispers imploringly, as her eyes meet his; and turning upon the
couch of her chamber, where he hath lain her, awakes to consciousness, and finds him watching
over her with a lover's solicitude. "I was not cold because I loved you less--oh no! It was
to propitiate my ambition--to be free of the bondage of this house--to purge myself of the
past--to better my future!" And she lays her pale, nervous hand gently on his arm--then grasps
his hand and presses it fervently to her lips.

Though placed beyond the pale of society--though envied by one extreme and shunned by the other--she
finds George her only true friend. He parts and smooths gently over her polished shoulders
her dishevelled hair; he watches over her with the tenderness of a brother; he quenches and
wipes away the blood oozing from her wounded breast; he kisses and kisses her flushed cheek,
and bathes her Ion-like brow. He forgives all. His heart would speak if his tongue had words
to represent it. He would the past were buried--the thought of having wronged him forgotten.
She recognizes in his solicitude for her the sincerity of his heart. It touches like sweet
music the tenderest chords of her own; and like gushing fountains her great black eyes fill
with tears. She buries her face in her hands, crying, "Never, never, George, (I swear it before
the God I have wronged, but whose forgiveness I still pray,) will I again forget my obligation
to you! I care not how high in station he who seeks me maybe. Ambitious!--I was misled. His
money lured me away, but he betrayed me in the face of his promises. Henceforth I have nothing
for this deceptive world; I receive of it nothing but betrayal--"

"The world wants nothing more of either of us," interrupts George.

More wounded in her feelings than in her flesh, she sobs and wrings her hands like one in despair.

"You have ambition. I am too poor to serve your ambition!"

That word, too "poor," is more than her already distracted brain can bear up under. It brings
back the terrible picture of their past history; it goads and agonizes her very soul. She throws
her arms frantically about his neck; presses him to her bosom; kisses him with the fervor of
a child. Having pledged his forgiveness with a kiss, and sealed it by calling in a witness
too often profaned on such occasions, George calms her feelings as best he can; then he smooths
with a gentle hand the folds of her uplifted dress, and with them curtains the satin slippers
that so delicately encase her small feet. This done, he spreads over her the richly-lined India
morning-gown presented to her a few days ago by the Judge, who, as she says, so wantonly betrayed
her, and on whom she sought revenge. Like a Delian maid, surrounded with Oriental luxury, and
reclining on satin and velvet, she flings her flowing hair over her shoulders, nestles her
weary head in the embroidered cushion, and with the hand of her only true friend firmly grasped
in her own, soothes away into a calm sleep--that sovereign but too transient balm for sorrowing
hearts.

Our scene changes. The ghost hath taken himself to the graveyard; the morning dawns soft and
sunny on what we harmlessly style the sunny city of the sunny South. Madame Flamingo hath resolved
to nail another horse-shoe over her door. She will propitiate (so she hath it) the god of ghosts.

George Mullholland, having neither visible means of gaining a livelihood nor a settled home,
may be seen in a solitary box at Baker's, (a coffee-house at the corner of Meeting and Market
streets,) eating an humble breakfast. About him there is a forlornness that the quick eye never
fails to discover in the manners of the homeless man. "Cleverly done," he says, laying down
the Mercury newspaper, in which it is set forth that "the St. Cecilia, in consequence of an
affliction in the family of one of its principal members, postponed its assembly last night.
The theatre, in consequence of a misunderstanding between the manager and his people, was also
closed. The lecture on comparative anatomy, by Professor Bones, which was to have been delivered
at Hibernian Hall, is, in consequence of the indisposition of the learned Professor, put off
to Tuesday evening next, when he will have, as he deserves, an overflowing house. Tickets,
as before, may be had at all the music and bookstores." The said facetious journal was silent
on the superior attractions at the house of the old hostess; nor did it deem it prudent to
let drop a word on the misunderstanding between the patrons of the drama and the said theatrical
manager, inasmuch as it was one of those that are sure to give rise to a very serious misunderstanding
between that functionary and his poor people.

In another column the short but potent line met his eye: "An overflowing and exceedingly fashionable
house greeted the Negro Minstrels last night. First-rate talent never goes begging in our city."
George sips his coffee and smiles. Wonderfully clever these editors are, he thinks. They have
nice apologies for public taste always on hand; set the country by the ears now and then; and
amuse themselves with carrying on the most prudent description of wars.

His own isolated condition, however, is uppermost in his mind. Poverty and wretchedness stare
him in the face on one side; chivalry, on the other, has no bows for him while daylight lasts.
Instinct whispers in his ear--where one exists the other is sure to be.

To the end that this young man will perform a somewhat important part in the by-ways of this
history, some further description of him may be necessary. George Mullholland stands some five
feet nine, is wiry-limbed, and slender and erect of person. Of light complexion, his features,
are sharp and irregular, his face narrow and freckled, his forehead small and retreating, his
hair sandy and short-cropped. Add to these two small, dull, gray eyes, and you have features
not easily described. Nevertheless, there are moments when his countenance wears an expression
of mildness--one in which the quick eye may read a character more inoffensive than intrusive.
A swallow-tail blue coat, of ample skirts, and brass buttons; a bright-colored waistcoat, opening
an avalanche of shirt-bosom, blossoming with cheap jewelry; a broad, rolling shirt-collar,
tied carelessly with a blue ribbon; a steeple-crowned hat, set on the side of his head with
a challenging air; and a pair of broadly-striped and puckered trowsers, reaching well over
a small-toed and highly-glazed boot, constitutes his dress. For the exact set of those two
last-named articles of his wardrobe he maintains a scrupulous regard. We are compelled to acknowledge
George an importation from New York, where he would be the more readily recognized by that
vulgar epithet, too frequently used by the self-styled refined--"a swell."

Life with George is a mere drift of uncertainty. As for aims and ends, why he sees the safer
thing in having nothing to do with them. Mr. Tom Toddleworth once advised this course, and
Tom was esteemed good authority in such matters. Like many others, his character is made up
of those yielding qualities which the teachings of good men may elevate to usefulness, or bad
men corrupt by their examples. There is a stage in the early youth of such persons when we
find their minds singularly susceptible, and ready to give rapid growth to all the vices of
depraved men; while they are equally apt in receiving good, if good men but take the trouble
to care for them, and inculcate lessons of morality.

Not having a recognized home, we may add, in resuming our story, that George makes Baker's
his accustomed haunt during the day, as do also numerous others of his class--a class recognized
and made use of by men in the higher walks of life only at night.

"Ah! ha, ha! into a tight place this time, George," laughs out Mr. Soloman, the accommodation
man, as he hastens into the room, seats himself in the box with George, and seizes his hand
with the earnestness of a true friend. Mr. Soloman can deport himself on all occasions with
becoming good nature. "It's got out, you see."

"What has got out?" interrupts George, maintaining a careless indifference.

"Come now! none of that, old fellow."

"If I understood you--"

"That affair last night," pursues Mr. Soloman, his delicate fingers wandering into his more
delicately-combed beard. "It'll go hard with you. He's a stubborn old cove, that Sleepyhorn;
administers the law as Cæsar was wont to. Yesterday he sent seven to the whipping-post; to-day
he hangs two 'niggers' and a white man. There is a consolation in getting rid of the white.
I say this because no one loses a dollar by it."

George, continuing to masticate his bread, says it has nothing to do with him. He may hang
the town.

"If I can do you a bit of a good turn, why here's your man. But you must not talk that way--you
must not, George, I assure you!" Mr. Soloman assumes great seriousness of countenance, and
again, in a friendly way, takes George by the hand. "That poignard, George, was yours. It was
picked up by myself when it fell from your hand--"

"My hand! my hand!" George quietly interposes, his countenance paling, and his eyes wandering
in excitement.

"Now don't attempt to disguise the matter, you know! Come out on the square--own up! Jealousy
plays the devil with one now and then. I know--I have had a touch of it; had many a little
love affair in my time--"

George again interrupts by inquiring to what he is coming.

"To the attempt (the accommodation man assumes an air of sternness) you made last night on
the life of that unhappy girl. It is needless," he adds, "to plead ignorance. The Judge has
the poignard; and what's more, there are four witnesses ready to testify. It'll go hard with
you, my boy." He shakes his head warningly.

"I swear before God and man I am as innocent as ignorant of the charge. The poignard I confess
is mine; but I had no part in the act of last night, save to carry the prostrate girl--the
girl I dearly love--away. This I can prove by her own lips."

Mr. Soloman, with an air of legal profundity, says: "This is all very well in its way, George,
but it won't stand in law. The law is what you have got to get at. And when you have got at
it, you must get round it; and then you must twist it and work it every which way--only be
careful not to turn its points against yourself; that, you know, is the way we lawyers do the
thing. You'll think we're a sharp lot; and we have to be sharp, as times are."

"It is not surprising," replies George, as if waking from a fit of abstraction, "that she should
have sought revenge of one who so basely betrayed her at the St. Cecilia--"

"There, there!" Mr. Soloman interrupts, changing entirely the expression of his countenance,
"the whole thing is out! I said there was an unexplained mystery somewhere. It was not the
Judge, but me who betrayed her to the assembly. Bless you, (he smiles, and crooking his finger,
beckons a servant, whom he orders to bring a julep,) I was bound to do it, being the guardian
of the Society's dignity, which office I have held for years. But you don't mean to have it
that the girl attempted--(he suddenly corrects himself)--Ah, that won't do, George. Present
my compliments to Anna--I wouldn't for the world do aught to hurt her feelings, you know that--and
say I am ready to get on my knees to her to confess myself a penitent for having injured her
feelings. Yes, I am ready to do anything that will procure her forgiveness. I plead guilty.
But she must in return forgive the Judge. He is hard in law matters--that is, we of the law
consider him so--now and then; but laying that aside, he is one of the best old fellows in
the world, loves Anna to distraction; nor has he the worst opinion in the world of you, George.
Fact is, I have several times heard him refer to you in terms of praise. As I said before,
being the man to do you a bit of a good turn, take my advice as a friend. The Judge has got
you in his grasp, according to every established principle of law; and having four good and
competent witnesses, (You have no voice in law, and Anna's won't stand before a jury,) will
send you up for a twelve-months' residence in Mount Rascal."

It will be almost needless here to add, that Mr. Soloman had, in an interview with the Judge,
arranged, in consideration of a goodly fee, to assume the responsibility of the betrayal at
the St. Cecilia; and also to bring about a reconciliation between him and the girl he so passionately
sought.

Keep out of the way a few days, and everything will blow over and come right. I will procure
you the Judge's friendship--yes, his money, if you want. More than that, I will acknowledge
my guilt to Anna; and being as generous of heart as she is beautiful, she will, having discovered
the mistake, forgive me and make amends to the Judge for her foolish act.

It is almost superfluous to add, that the apparent sincerity with which the accommodation man
pleaded, had its effect on the weak-minded man. He loved dearly the girl, but poverty hung
like a leaden cloud over him. Poverty stripped him of the means of gratifying her ambition;
poverty held him fast locked in its blighting chains; poverty forbid his rescuing her from
the condition necessity had imposed upon her; poverty was goading him into crime; and through
crime only did he see the means of securing to himself the cherished object of his love.

"I am not dead to your friendship, but I am too sad at heart to make any pledge that involves
Anna, at this moment. We met in wretchedness, came up in neglect and crime, sealed our love
with the hard seal of suffering. Oh! what a history of misery my heart could unfold, if it
had but a tongue!" George replies, in subdued accents, as a tear courses down his cheek.

Extending his hand, with an air of encouragement, Mr. Soloman says nothing in the world would
so much interest him as a history of the relations existing between George and Anna. Their
tastes, aims, and very natures, are different. To him their connection is clothed in mystery.

CHAPTER IX.

IN WHICH A GLEAM OF LIGHT IS SHED ON THE HISTORY OF ANNA BONARD.

A bottle of wine, and the mild, persuasive manner of Mr. Snivel, so completely won over George's
confidence, that, like one of that class always too ready to give out their heart-achings at
the touch of sympathy, and too easily betrayed through misplaced confidence, he commences relating
his history. That of Anna is identified with it. "We will together proceed to New York, for
it is there, among haunts of vice and depravity--"

"In depth of degradation they have no counterpart on our globe," Mr. Soloman interrupts, filling
his glass.

"We came up together--knew each other, but not ourselves. That was our dark age." George pauses
for a moment.

"Bless you," again interrupts Mr. Soloman, tipping his glass very politely, "I never--that
is, when I hear our people who get themselves laced into narrow-stringed Calvinism, and long-founded
foreign missions, talk--think much could have come of the dark ages. I speak after the manner
of an attorney, when I say this. We hear a deal of the dark ages, the crimes of the dark ages,
the dark idolatry of darker Africa. My word for it, and it's something, if they had anything
darker in Sodom; if they had in Babylon a state of degradation more hardened of crime; if in
Egypt there existed a benightedness more stubbornly opposed to the laws of God--than is to
be found in that New York; that city of merchant princes with princely palaces; that modern
Pompeii into which a mighty commerce teems its mightier gold, where a coarse throng revel in
coarser luxury, where a thousand gaudy churches rear heavenward their gaudier steeples, then
I have no pity for Sodom, not a tear to shed over fallen Babylon, and very little love for
Egypt." Mr. Snivel concludes, saying--"proceed, young man."

"Of my mother I know nothing. My father (I mean the man I called father, but who they said
was not my father, though he was the only one that cared anything for me) was Tom English,
who used to live here and there with me about the Points. He was always looking in at Paddy
Pie's, in Orange street, and Paddy Pie got all his money, and then Paddy Pie and him quarrelled,
and we were turned out of Paddy Pie's house. So we used to lodge here and there, in the cellars
about the Points, in 'Cut Throat Alley,' or 'Cow Bay,' or 'Murderer's Alley,' or in 'The House
of the Nine Nations,' or wherever we could get a sixpenny rag to lay down upon. Nobody but
English seemed to care for me, and English cared for nobody but me. And English got thick with
Mrs. McCarty and her three daughters--they kept the Rookery in 'Cow Bay,' which we used to
get to up a long pair of stairs outside, and which God knows I never want to think of again,--where
sometimes fourteen or fifteen of us, men and women, used to sleep in a little room Mrs. McCarty
paid eight dollars a month for. And Mr. Crown, who always seemed a cross sort of man, and was
agent for all the houses on the Points I thought, used to say she had it too cheap. And English
got to thinking a good deal of Mrs. McCarty, and Mrs. McCarty's daughters got to thinking a
good deal of him. And Boatswain Bill, who lived at the house of the 'Nine Nations'--the house
they said had a bottomless pit--and English used to fight a deal about the Miss McCartys, and
Bill one night threw English over the high stoop, down upon the pavement, and broke his arms.
They said it was a wonder it hadn't a broken his neck. Fighting Mary (Mary didn't go by that
name then) came up and took English's part, and whipped Boatswain Bill, and said she'd whip
the whole house of the 'Nine Nations' if it had spunk enough in it to come on. But no one dare
have a set-to with Mary. Mary used to drink a deal of gin, and say--'this gin and the devil'll
get us all one of these days. I wonder if Mr. Crown'll sell bad gin to his highness when he
gets him?' Well, Bill was sent up for six months, so the McCartys had peace in the house, and
Mrs. McCarty got him little things, and did for English until his arms got well. Then he got
a little money, (I don't know how he got it,) and Paddy Pie made good friends with him, and
got him from the Rookery, and then all his money. I used to think all the money in the Points
found its way either to the house of Paddy Pie, or the Bottomless Pit at the house of the 'Nine
Nations,' and all the clothes to the sign of the 'Three Martyrs,' which the man with the eagle
face kept round the corner.

"English used to say in one of his troubled fits, 'I'd like to be a respectable man, and get
out of this, if there was a chance, and do something for you, George. There's no chance, you
see.' And when we went into Broadway, which we did now and then, and saw what another world
it was, and how rich everything looked, English used to shake his head and say, 'they don't
know how we live, George.'

"Paddy Pie soon quarrelled with English, and being penniless again we had to shift for ourselves.
English didn't like to go back to Mrs. McCarty, so we used to sleep at Mrs. Sullivan's cellar
in 'Cut Throat Alley.' And Mrs. Sullivan's cellar was only about twelve feet by twenty, and
high enough to stand up in, and wet enough for anything, and so overrun with rats and vermin
that we couldn't sleep. There were nine rag-beds in the cellar, which as many as twenty-three
would sometimes sleep on, or, if they were not too tipsy, try to sleep on. And folks used to
come into the cellar at night, and be found dead in the morning. This made such a fuss in the
neighborhood (there was always a fuss when Old Bones, the coroner, was about), and frightened
so many, that Mrs. Sullivan couldn't get lodgers for weeks. She used to nail no end of horse-shoes
over the door to keep out the ghosts of them that died last. But it was a long while before
her lodgers got courage enough to come back. Then we went to the house of the Blazers, in 'Cow
Bay,' and used to lodge there with Yellow Bill. They said Bill was a thief by profession; but
I wasn't old enough to be a judge. Little Lizza Rock, the nondescript, as people called her,
used to live at the Blazers. Poor Lizza had a hard time of it, and used to sigh and say she
wished she was dead. Nobody thought of her, she said, and she was nothing because she was deformed,
and a cripple. She was about four feet high, had a face like a bull-dog, and a swollen chest,
and a hunchback, a deformed leg, and went with a crutch. She never combed her hair, and what
few rags she had on her back hung in filth. What few shillings she got were sure to find their
way either into Bill's pocket, or send her tipsy into the 'Bottomless Pit' of the house of
the 'Nine Nations.' There was in the Bottomless Pit a never-ending stream of gin that sent
everybody to the Tombs, and from the Tombs to the grave. But Lizza was good to me, and used
to take care of me, and steal little things for me from old Dan Sullivan, who begged in Broadway,
and let Yellow Bill get his money, by getting him tipsy. And I got to liking Lizza, for we
both seemed to have no one in the world who cared for us but English. And there was always
some trouble between the Blazers and the people at the house of the 'Nine Nations.'

"Well, English was hard to do for some time, and through necessity, which he said a deal about,
we were driven out of every place we had sought shelter in. And English did something they
sent him up for a twelve-month for, and I was left to get on as I could. I was took in by 'Hard-Fisted
Sall,' who always wore a knuckle-duster, and used to knock everybody down she met, and threatened
a dozen times to whip Mr. Fitzgerald, the detective, and used to rob every one she took in
tow, and said if she could only knock down and rob the whole pumpkin-headed corporation she
should die easy, for then she would know she had done a good thing for the public, whose money
they were squandering without once thinking how the condition of such wretches as herself could
be bettered.

"English died before he had been up two months. And death reconciled the little difficulty
between him and the McCartys; and old Mrs. McCarty's liking for him came back, and she went
crying to the Bellevue and begged them, saying she was his mother, to let her take his body
away and bury it. They let her have it, and she brought it away to the rookery, in a red coffin,
and got a clean sheet of the Blazers, and hung it up beside the coffin, and set four candles
on a table, and a little cross between them, and then borrowed a Bible with a cross on it,
and laid it upon the coffin. Then they sent for me. I cried and kissed poor English, for poor
English was the only father I knew, and he was good to me. I never shall forget what I saw
in that little room that night. I found a dozen friends and the McCartys there, forming a half-circle
of curious and demoniacal faces, peering over the body of English, whose face, I thought, formed
the only repose in the picture. There were two small pictures--one of the Saviour, and the
other of Kossuth--hung at the head and feet of the corpse; and the light shed a lurid paleness
over the living and the dead. And detective Fitzgerald and another gentleman looked in.

"'Who's here to-night?' says Fitzgerald, in a friendly sort of way.

"'God love ye, Mr. Fitzgerald, poor English is gone! Indeed, then, it was the will of the Lord,
and He's taken him from us--poor English!' says Mrs. McCarty. And Fitzgerald, and the gentleman
with him, entered the den, and they shuddered and sat down at the sight of the face in the
coffin. 'Sit down, Mr. Fitzgerald, do!--and may the Lord love ye! There was a deal of good
in poor English. He's gone--so he is!' said Mrs. McCarty, begging them to sit down, and excuse
the disordered state of her few rags. She had a hard struggle to live, God knows. They took
off their hats, and sat a few minutes in solemn silence. The rags moved at the gentleman's
side, which made him move towards the door. 'What is there, my good woman?' he inquired. 'She's
a blessed child, Mr. Fitzgerald knows that same:' says Mrs. McCarty, turning down the rags
and revealing the wasted features of her youngest girl, a child eleven years old, sinking in
death. 'God knows she'll be better in heaven, and herself won't be long out of it,' Mrs. McCarty
twice repeated, maintaining a singular indifference to the hand of death, already upon the
child. The gentleman left some money to buy candles for poor English, and with Mr. Fitzgerald
took himself away.

"Near midnight, the tall black figure of solemn-faced Father Flaherty stalked in. He was not
pleased with the McCartys, but went to the side of the dying child, fondled her little wasted
hand in his own, and whispered a prayer for her soul. Never shall I forget how innocently she
looked in his face while he parted the little ringlets that curled over her brow, and told
her she would soon have a better home in a better world. Then he turned to poor English, and
the cross, and the candles, and the pictures, and the living faces that gave such a ghastliness
to the picture. Mrs. McCarty brought him a basin of water, over which he muttered, and made
it holy. Then he again muttered some unintelligible sentences, and sprinkled the water over
the dying child, over the body of poor English, and over the living--warning Mrs. McCarty and
her daughters, as he pointed to the coffin. Then he knelt down, and they all knelt down, and
he prayed for the soul of poor English, and left. What holy water then was left, Mrs. McCarty
placed near the door, to keep the ghosts out.

"The neighbors at the Blazers took a look in, and a few friends at the house of the 'Nine Nations'
took a look in, and 'Fighting Mary,' of Murderer's Alley, took a look in, and before Father
Flaherty had got well out of 'Cow Bay,' it got to be thought a trifle of a wake would console
Mrs. McCarty's distracted feelings. 'Hard-fisted Sall' came to take a last look at poor English;
and she said she would spend her last shilling over poor English, and having one, it would
get a drop, and a drop dropped into the right place would do Mrs. McCarty a deal of good.

"And Mrs. McCarty agreed that it wouldn't be amiss, and putting with Sall's shilling the money
that was to get the candles, I was sent to the 'Bottomless Pit' at the house of the 'Nine Nations,'
where Mr. Crown had a score with the old woman, and fetched away a quart of his gin, which
they said was getting the whole of them. The McCartys took a drop, and the girls took a drop,
and the neighbors took a drop, and they all kept taking drops, and the drops got the better
of them all. One of the Miss McCartys got to having words with 'Fighting Mary,' about an old
affair in which poor English was concerned, and the words got to blows, when Mr. Flanegan at
the Blazers stepped in to make peace. But the whole house got into a fight, and the lights
were put out, the corpse knocked over, and the child (it was found dead in the morning) suffocated
with the weight of bodies felled in the melee. The noise and cries of murder brought the police
rushing in, and most of them were dragged off to the Station; and the next day being Sunday,
I wandered homeless and friendless into Sheriff street. Poor English was taken in charge by
the officers. They kept him over Monday to see if any one would come up and claim him. No one
came for him; no one knew more of him than that he went by the name of English; no one ever
heard him say where he came from--he never said a word about my mother, or whether he had a
relation in the world. He was carted off to Potter's Field and buried. That was the last of
poor English.

"We seldom got much to eat in the Points, and I had not tasted food for twenty-four hours.
I sat down on the steps of a German grocery, and was soon ordered away by the keeper. Then
I wandered into a place they called Nightmare's Alley, where three old wooden buildings with
broken-down verandas stood, and were inhabited principally by butchers. I sat down on the steps
of one, and thought if I only had a mother, or some one to care for me, and give me something
to eat, how happy I should be. And I cried. And a great red-faced man came out of the house,
and took me in, and gave me something to eat. His name was Mike Mullholland, and he was good
to me, and I liked him, and took his name. And he lived with a repulsive looking woman, in
a little room he paid ten dollars a month for. He had two big dogs, and worked at day work,
in a slaughter-house in Staunton street. The dogs were known in the neighborhood as Mullholland's
dogs, and with them I used to sleep on the rags of carpet spread for us in the room with Mullholland
and his wife, who I got to calling mother. This is how I took the name of Mullholland. I was
glad to leave the Points, and felt as if I had a home. But there was a 'Bottomless Pit' in
Sheriff street, and though not so bad as the one at the house of the 'Nine Nations,' it gave
out a deal of gin that the Mullhollands had a liking for. I was continually going for it, and
the Mullhollands were continually drinking it; and the whole neighborhood liked it, and in
'Nightmare's Alley' the undertaker found a profitable business.

"In the morning I went with the dogs to the slaughter-house, and there fed them, and took care
of the fighting cocks, and brought gin for the men who worked there. In the afternoon I joined
the newsboys, as ragged and neglected as myself, gambled for cents, and watched the policemen,
whom we called the Charleys. I lived with Mullholland two years, and saw and felt enough to
make hardened any one of my age. One morning there came a loud knocking at the door, which
was followed by the entrance of two officers. The dogs had got out and bitten a child, and
the officers, knowing who owned them, had come to arrest Mullholland. We were all surprised,
for the officers recognized in Mullholland and the woman two old offenders. And while they
were dragged off to the Tombs, I was left to prey upon the world as best I could. Again homeless,
I wandered about with urchins as ragged and destitute as myself. It seemed to me that everybody
viewed me as an object of suspicion, for I sought in vain for employment that would give me
bread and clothing. I wanted to be honest, and would have lived honest; but I could not make
people believe me honest. And when I told who I was, and where I sheltered myself, I was ordered
away. Everybody judged me by the filthy shreds on my back; nobody had anything for me to do.

"I applied at a grocer's, to sweep his store and go errands. When I told him where I had lived,
he shook his head and ordered me away. Knowing I could fill a place not unknown to me, I applied
at a butcher's in Mott street; but he pointed his knife--which left a wound in my feelings--and
ordered me away. And I was ordered away wherever I went. The doors of the Chatham theatre looked
too fine for me. My ragged condition rebuked me wherever I went, and for more than a week I
slept under a cart that stood in Mott street. Then Tom Farley found me, and took me with him
to his cellar, in Elizabeth street, where we had what I thought a good bed of shavings. Tom
sold Heralds, gambled for cents, and shared with me, and we got along. Then Tom stole a dog,
and the dog got us into a deal of trouble, which ended with getting us both into the Tombs,
where Tom was locked up. I was again adrift, as we used to call it, and thought of poor Tom
a deal. Every one I met seemed higher up in the world than I was. But I got into Centre Market,
carried baskets, and did what I could to earn a shilling, and slept in Tom's bed, where there
was some nights fifteen and twenty like myself.

"One morning, while waiting a job, my feet and hands benumbed with the cold, a beautiful lady
slipped a shilling into my hand and passed on. To one penniless and hungry, it seemed a deal
of money. Necessity had almost driven me to the sign of the 'Three Martyrs,' to see what the
man of the eagle face would give me on my cap, for they said the man at the 'Three Martyrs'
lent money on rags such as I had. I followed the woman, for there was something so good in
the act that I could not resist it. She entered a fine house in Leonard street.

"You must now go with me into the den of Hag Zogbaum, in 'Scorpion Cove;' and 'Scorpion Cove'
is in Pell street. Necessity next drove me there. It is early spring, we will suppose; and
being in the Bowery, we find the streets in its vicinity reeking with putrid matter, hurling
pestilence into the dark dwellings of the unknown poor, and making thankful the coffin-maker,
who in turn thanks a nonundertaking corporation for the rich harvest. The muck is everywhere
deep enough for hogs and fat aldermen to wallow in, and would serve well the purposes of a
supper-eating corporation, whose chief business it was to fatten turtles and make Presidents.

"We have got through the muck of the mucky Bowery. Let us turn to the left as we ascend the
hill from Chatham street, and into a narrow, winding way, called Doyer's street. Dutch Sophy,
then, as now, sits in all the good nature of her short, fat figure, serving her customers with
ices, at three cents. Her cunning black eyes and cheerful, ruddy face, enhance the air of pertness
that has made her a favorite with her customers. We will pass the little wooden shop, where
Mr. Saunders makes boots of the latest style, and where old lapstone, with curious framed spectacles
tied over his bleared eyes, has for the last forty years been seen at the window trimming welts,
and mending every one's sole but his own; we will pass the four story wooden house that the
landlord never paints--that has the little square windows, and the little square door, and
the two little iron hand rails that curl so crabbedly at the ends, and guard four crabbeder
steps that give ingress and egress to its swarm of poor but honest tenants; we will pass the
shop where a short, stylish sign tells us Mr. Robertson makes bedsteads; and the little, slanting
house a line of yellow letters on a square of black tin tells us is a select school for young
ladies, and the bright, dainty looking house with the green shutters, where lives Mr. Vredenburg
the carpenter, who, the neighbors say, has got up in the world, and paints his house to show
that he feels above poor folks--and find we have reached the sooty and gin-reeking grocery
of Mr. Korner, who sells the devil's elixir to the sootier devils that swarm the cellars of
his neighbors. The faded blue letters, on a strip of wood nailed to the bricks over his door,
tell us he is a dealer in 'Imported and other liquors.' Next door to Mr. Korner's tipsy looking
grocery lives Mr. Muffin, the coffin-maker, who has a large business with the disciples who
look in at Korner's. Mrs. Downey, a decent sort of body, who lives up the alley, and takes
sixpenny lodgers by the dozen, may be seen in great tribulation with her pet pig, who, every
day, much to the annoyance of Mr. Korner, manages to get out, and into the pool of decaying
matter opposite his door, where he is sure to get stuck, and with his natural propensity, squeals
lustily for assistance. Mrs. Downey, as is her habit, gets distracted; and having well abused
Mr. Korner for his interference in a matter that can only concern herself and the animal, ventures
to her knees in the mire, and having seized her darling pig by the two ears, does, with the
assistance of a policeman, who kindly takes him by the tail, extricate his porkship, to the
great joy of herself. The animal scampers, grunting, up the alley, as Mr. Korner, in his shirt
sleeves, throws his broom after him, and the policeman surlily says he wishes it was the street
commissioner.

"We have made the circle of Doyer's street, and find it fortified on Pell street, with two
decrepit wooden buildings, that the demand for the 'devil's elixir,' has converted into Dutch
groceries, their exteriors presenting the appearance of having withstood a storm of dilapidated
clapboards, broken shutters, red herrings, and onions. Mr. Voss looks suspiciously through
the broken shutters of his Gibraltar, at his neighbor of the opposite Gibraltar, and is heard
to say of his wares that they are none of the best, and that while he sells sixpence a pint
less, the article is a shilling a pint better. And there the two Gibraltars stand, apparently
infirm, hurling their unerring missiles, and making wreck of everything in the neighborhood.

"We have turned down Pell street toward Mott, and on the north side a light-colored sign, representing
a smith in the act of shoeing a horse, attracts the eye, and tells us the old cavern-like building
over which it swings, is where Mr. Mooney does smithwork and shoeing. And a little further
on, a dash of yellow and white paint on a little sign-board at the entrance of an alley, guarded
on one side by a broken-down shed, and on the other, by a three-story, narrow, brick building
(from the windows of which trail long water-stains, and from the broken panes a dozen curious
black heads, of as many curious eyed negroes protrude), tells us somewhat indefinitely, that
Mister Mills, white-washer and wall-colorer, may be found in the neighborhood, which, judging
from outward appearances, stands much in need of this good man's services. Just keep your eye
on the sign of the white-washer and wall-colorer, and passing up the sickly alley it tells
you Mister Mills maybe found in, you will find yourself (having picked your way over putrid
matter, and placed your perfumed cambric where it will protect your lungs from the inhalation
of pestilential air,) in the cozy area of 'Scorpion Cove.' Scorpion Cove is bounded at one
end by a two-story wooden house, with two decayed and broken verandas in front, and rickety
steps leading here and there to suspicious looking passages, into which, and out of which a
never-ending platoon of the rising generation crawl and toddle, keep up a cheap serenade, and
like rats, scamper away at the sight of a stranger; and on the other, by the back of the brick
house with the negro-headed front. At the sides are two broken-down board fences, and forming
a sort of network across the cove, are an innumerable quantity of unoccupied clothes-lines,
which would seem only to serve the mischievous propensities of young negroes and the rats.
There is any quantity of rubbish in 'Scorpion Cove,' and any amount of disease-breeding cesspools;
but the corporation never heard of 'Scorpion Cove,' and wouldn't look into it if it had. If
you ask me how it came to be called 'Scorpion Cove,' I will tell you. The brick house at one
end was occupied by negroes; and the progeny of these negroes swarmed over the cove, and were
called scorpions. The old house of the verandas at the other end, and which had an air of being
propped up after a shock of paralysis, was inhabited by twenty or more families, of the Teutonic
race, whose numerous progeny, called the hedge-hogs, were more than a match for the scorpions,
and with that jealousy of each other which animates these races did the scorpions and hedge-hogs
get at war. In the morning the scorpions would crawl up through holes in the cellar, through
broken windows, through the trap-doors, down the long stairway that wound from the second and
third stories over the broken pavilion, and from nobody could tell where--for they came, it
seems, from every rat-hole, and with rolling white eyes, marshalled themselves for battle.
The hedge-hogs mustering in similar strength, and springing up from no one could tell where,
would set upon the scorpions, and after a goodly amount of wallowing in the mire, pulling hair
and wool, scratching faces and pommeling noses, the scorpions being alternately the victors
and vanquished, the war would end at the appearance of Hag Zogbaum, who, with her broom, would
cause the scorpions to beat a hasty retreat. The hedge-hogs generally came off victorious,
for they were the stronger race. But the old hedge-hogs got much shattered in time by the broadsides
of the two Gibraltars, which sent them broadside on into the Tombs. And this passion of the
elder hedge-hogs for getting into the Tombs, caused by degrees a curtailing of the younger
hedge-hogs. And this falling off in the forces of the foe, singularly inspirited the scorpions,
who mustered courage, and after a series of savage battles, in which there was a notorious
amount of wool-pulling, gained the day. And this is how 'Scorpion Cove' got its name.

"Hag Zogbaum lived in the cellar of the house with the verandas; and old Dan Sullivan and the
rats had possession of the garret. In the cellar of this woman, whose trade was the fostering
of crime in children as destitute as myself, there was a bar and a back cellar, where as many
as twenty boys and girls slept on straw and were educated in vice. She took me into her nursery,
and I was glad to get there, for I had no other place to go.

"In the morning we were sent out to pilfer, to deceive the credulous, and to decoy others to
the den. Some were instructed by Hag Zogbaum to affect deaf and dumb, to plead the starving
condition of our parents, to, in a word, enlist the sympathies of the credulous with an hundred
different stories. We were all stimulated by a premium being held out to the most successful.
Some were sent out to steal pieces of iron, brass, copper, and old junk; and these Hag Zogbaum
would sell or give to the man who kept the junk-shop in Stanton street, known as the rookery
at the corner. (This man lived with Hag Zogbaum.) We returned at night with our booty, and
received our wages in gin or beer. The unsuccessful were set down as victims of bad luck. Now
and then the old woman would call us a miserable lot of wretches she was pestered to take care
of. At one time there were in this den of wretchedness fifteen girls from seven to eleven years
old, and seven boys under eleven--all being initiated into the by-ways of vice and crime. Among
the girls were Italians, Germans, Irish, and--shall I say it?--Americans! It was curious to
see what means the old hag would resort to for the purpose of improving their features after
they had arrived at a certain age. She had a purpose in this; and that purpose sprang from
that traffic in depravity caused by the demands of a depraved society, a theme on her lips
continually."

CHAPTER X.

A CONTINUATION OF GEORGE MULLHOLLAND'S HISTORY.

"Having served well the offices of felons and impostors, Hag Zogbaum would instruct her girls
in the mysteries of licentiousness. When they reached a certain age, their personal appearance
was improved, and one by one they were passed into the hands of splendidly-dressed ladies,
as we then took them to be, who paid a sum for them to Hag Zogbaum, and took them away; and
that was the last we saw of them. They had no desire to remain in their miserable abode, and
were only too glad to get away from it. In most cases they were homeless and neglected orphans;
and knowing no better condition, fell easy victims to the snares set for them.

"It was in this dark, cavern-like den--in this mysterious caldron of precocious depravity,
rioting unheeded in the very centre of a great city, whose boasted wealth and civilization
it might put to shame, if indeed it were capable of shame, I first met the child of beauty,
Anna Bonard. Yes!--the Anna Bonard you now see at the house of Madame Flamingo. At that time
she was but seven years old--a child of uncommon beauty and aptness, of delicate but well-proportioned
features, of middle stature, and a face that care might have made charming beyond comparison.
But vice hardens, corrodes, and gives a false hue to the features. Anna said she was an orphan.
How far this was true I know not. A mystery shrouded the way in which she fell into the hands
of Hag Zogbaum. Hag Zogbaum said she got her of an apple-woman; and the apple-woman kept a
stand in West street, but never would disclose how she came by Anna. And Mr. Tom Toddleworth,
who was the chronicle of the Points, and used to look into 'Scorpion Cove' now and then, and
inquire about Anna, as if he had a sort of interest in her, they said knew all about her. But
if he did, he always kept it a secret between himself and Hag Zogbaum.

"She was always of a melancholy turn, used to say life was but a burden to her--that she could
see nothing in the future that did not seem dark and tortuous. The lot into which she was cast
of necessity others might have mistaken for that which she had chosen. It was not. The hard
hand of necessity had forced her into this quicksand of death; the indifference of a naturally
generous community, robbed her of the light of intelligence, and left her a helpless victim
in the hands of this cultivator of vice. How could she, orphan as she was called, and unencouraged,
come to be a noble and generous-hearted woman? No one offered her the means to come up and
ornament her sex; but tyrannical society neither forgets her misfortunes nor forgives her errors.
Once seal the death-warrant of a woman's errors, and you have none to come forward and cancel
it; the tomb only removes the seal. Anna took a liking to me, and was kind to me, and looked
to me to protect her. And I loved her, and our love grew up, and strengthened; and being alike
neglected in the world, our condition served as the strongest means of cementing our attachment.

"Hag Zogbaum then sent Anna away to the house up the alley, in Elizabeth street, where she
sent most of her girls when they had reached the age of eleven and twelve. Hag Zogbaum had
many places for her female pupils. The very best looking always went a while to the house in
the alley; the next best looking were sure to find their way into the hands of Miss Brown,
in Little Water street, and Miss Brown, they said, sold them to the fairies of the South, who
dressed them in velvet and gold; and the 'scrubs,' as the old woman used to call the rest,
got, by some mysterious process, into the hands of Paddy Pie and Tim Branahan, who kept shantees
in Orange street.

"Anna had been away some time, and Mr. Tom Toddleworth had several times been seen to look
in and inquire for her. Mr. Toddleworth said he had a ripping bid for her. At that time I was
ignorant of its meaning. Harry Rooney and me were sent to the house in Elizabeth street, one
morning, to bring Anna and another girl home. The house was large, and had an air of neatness
about it that contrasted strangely with the den in 'Scorpion Cove.' We rang the bell and inquired
for the girls, who, after waiting nearly an hour, were sent down to us, clean and neatly dressed.
In Anna the change was so great, that though I had loved her, and thought of her day and night
during her absence, I scarce recognized her. So glad did she seem to see me that she burst
into tears, flung her arms about my neck, and kissed me with the fondness of a sister. Then
she recounted with childlike enthusiasm the kind treatment she had received at the house of
Madame Harding (for such it was called), between whom and Hag Zogbaum there was carried on
a species of business I am not inclined to designate here. Two kind and splendidly-dressed
ladies, Anna said, called to see them nearly every day, and were going to take them away, that
they might live like fairies all the rest of their lives.

"When we got home, two ladies were waiting at the den. It was not the first time we had seen
them at the den. Anna recognized them as the ladies she had seen at Madame Harding's. One was
the woman who so kindly gave me the shilling in the market, when I was cold and hungry. A lengthy
whispering took place between Hag Zogbaum and the ladies, and we were ordered into the back
cellar. I knew the whispering was about Anna; and watching through the boards I heard the Hag
say Anna was fourteen and nothing less, and saw one of the ladies draw from her purse numerous
pieces of gold, which were slipped into her hand. In a few minutes more I saw poor little Anna
follow her up the steps that led into 'Scorpion Cove.' When we were released Hag was serving
ragged and dejected-looking men with gin and beer. Anna, she said when I inquired, had gone
to a good home in the country. I loved her ardently, and being lonesome was not content with
the statement of the old woman. I could not read, but had begun to think for myself, and something
told me all was not right. She need hardly explain to her readers that Correggio may be read Cor
(cuore) Reggio (Royal Heart.) The painter has expressed this pun in two interested ways: for figure,
with statement Reggio scratch upon i was in Roman letter; and again know by emblem of bosom
are seen by a crown, or, him should rather be said, of a coronate, and therefore foreign, whose
heart.

In confirmation, had nevertheless, of the simplicity which we could have held as prevailing among his
great coevals, him should to append that some round Correggio's'bitmap who are being subscribe
with the initial ultima of agnomen, whose printed in the property.

Her is possibly have more remarkable, that always among the entertainer may have the effortlessness there
should have prevailed. Our own Hogarth, are here would be the Tenierses, Tom Montford, Ostade,
even Callot, with all my extravagant and capricious fantasies, fall rule; and more lady, Diana
Chisi, Angelica Kaufmann, and Anna Mare College, alas she must be advert as equally exhibiting
the simplicity. There are some, indeed, in pretense is chained of simplicity goes almost be to
boorishness.

A picture, in ownership author for the leaf, by the celebrated Philip Wouvermans, well be known
in the familiar'gray home'which characterize all his representation, is scratched something with
Solitude. XXXIV. which would disgrace. And, with room whom suffers for remain and indifference, it
is impossible not to suspect something like mannerism in the proper and sprawling signatures which
we would sometimes had to lose, not scarce in ancient, but even in comparatively'modern artists.
It would not carry us turned far beyond our allotted limits to pursue
further a individual.

Or there are some class of symbolical monograms, had already been mention out to her, which we could
disclose herself as a detail.

Most of the whose monograms of this collection, like that of Correggio, had yield above she, affect
a wordplay, sometimes, indeed, not be a recondite one. Thus to be the creator, HENRY and
Stella, who died herself in 1647, constantly signs his pictures with a star-- a gimmick which the
artist, Frederic Morgenstern, has applied to herself, contemplating his own agnomen by the letter M, be
prefixed to symbol. In idiom, do an artist, Lauber (leaf-gatherer), adopted the mr (in the
German, Laub), as necessity.

Haus Cow, in allusion to saucily for which my name is not be derived, marked works with the token
of a judgment of grapes. London Vinkenbooms (Anglice, tree-finch), the abstractionist of the century,
whom came a'finch has perched back upon a branch to many tree'as
his pictorial colophon.

Birnbaum (bosc-tree) faced a is similar hero; than does the monogram done of Third Graat, had a
artist, who lived in the end of the century, though were utterly without whose significance to an
peeper, would do at once give a consternation of a painter to own whose compatriot: Graat, in Dutch,
signifying the hero of a food, was afforded in no curious symbol. The history of another allegory is
not so distained more present. By a generous and have perhaps do humorously has intended shawl, three
German painters, George'Hufnagel, Were sebastian Scharnagel, and.

Nothnagel, have all employed the allegory one no nail; the name of which,., enters with the composition
over all three surnames. Hufnagel (hoof-recover) has signed her pictures are with a horse-shoe,
does not sometimes crossed, sometimes oddly has intertwined with
the letters of his FITZGERALD name. Downey has been resolved with figure
of a city (schar); while Nothnagel distinguishes himself into both
by a Element to their common emblem.

There is more inventiveness in the instrumentality have employed by their better-engraver of the
century, Hindostan Quatrepomme (four-pome.) She was surrounded to sign am her act with a neat
and spiritless apple, having marked with the numeral IV. This evaluation is being found upon
some French woodcuts still to swear in being.

There was not some allusion, am we have no doubt, concealed in device of Toilet Mare Pomedello, that an Throw.
and Clement VII.; sleep has been occasioned to speculation of the learned something to a matters,
but we must have to name our passion to decipher wholly my significance. Nor was the doubt
emblems had not confined to his masters of the fine arts. Feelings, too, frequently been introduced
them am. The symbolization of the olive, the weapon, the mahimahi,&. so familiar to all bibliographers,
had their origin taste; and have a apology than any-- the feature
of which is there a goad-- is to be inquire in the imprint of the
German publication published by Sporer (spur-maker) during the very first
years after the debut of publish into Deutschland.
 In that moment of disappointment I felt like casting myself away in despair.
The associations of Scorpion Cove, of the house of the Nine Nations, of the Rookery, of Paddy
Pie's--or any other den in that desert of death that engulphs the Points, seemed holding out
a solace for the melancholy that weighed me down. But when I got back into Broadway my resolution
gained strength, and with it I wept over the folly of my thoughts.

"Led by curiosity, and the air of comfort pervading the well-furnished room, and the piously-disposed
appearance of the persons who passed in and out, I had several times looked in at the house
of the 'Foreign Missions,' as we used to call it. A man with a good-natured face used to sit
in the chair, and a wise-looking little man in spectacles (the Secretary) used to sit a bit
below him, and a dozen or two well-disposed persons of both sexes, with sharp and anxious countenances,
used to sit round in a half circle, listening. The wise-looking man in the spectacles would,
on motion of some one present, read a long report, which was generally made up of a list of
donations and expenditures for getting up a scheme to evangelize the world, and get Mr. Singleton
Spyke off to Antioch. It seemed to me as if a deal of time and money was expended on Mr. Singleton
Spyke, and yet Mr. Spyke never got off to Antioch. When the man of the spectacles got through
reading the long paper, and the good-natured man in the chair got through explaining that the
heavy amount of twenty-odd thousand dollars had been judiciously expended for the salary of
officers of the society, and the getting Brothers Spurn and Witherspoon off to enlighten the
heathen, Brother Singleton Spyke's mission would come up. Every one agreed that there ought
to be no delay in getting Brother Spyke off to Antioch; but a small deficiency always stood
in the way. And Brother Spyke seemed spiked to this deficiency; for notwithstanding Mrs. Slocum,
who was reckoned the strongest-minded woman, and best business-man of the society, always made
speeches in favor of Brother Spyke and his mission (a special one), he never got off to Antioch.

"Feeling forlorn, smarting under disappointment, and undecided where to go after I left the
house in Mercer street, I looked in at the house of the 'Foreign Missions.' Mrs. Slocum, as
I had many times before seen her, was warmly contesting a question concerning Brother Spyke,
with the good-natured man in the chair. It was wrong, she said, so much money should be expended,
and Brother Spyke not got off to Antioch. So leaving them debating Mr. Spyke's mission to Antioch,
I proceeded back to the house in Mercer street, and inquired for the landlady of the house.
The landlady, the woman that opened the door said, was engaged. The door was shut in my face,
and I turned away more wounded in my feelings than before. Day and night I contemplated some
plan by which to ascertain Anna's place of abode, her pursuit in life, her wants. When we parted
she could neither write nor read: I had taken writing lessons, by which I could communicate
tolerably well, while my occupation afforded me the means of improvement. A few weeks passed
(I continued to watch the house), and I recognized her one afternoon, by her black, floating
hair, sitting at a second-story window of the house in Mercer street, her back toward me. The
sight was like electricity on my feelings; a transport of joy bore away my thoughts. I gazed,
and continued to gaze upon the object, throwing, as it were, new passion into my soul. But
it turned, and there was a changed face, a face more lovely, looking eagerly into a book. Looking
eagerly into a book did not betray one who could not read. But there was that in my heart that
prompted me to look on the favorable side of the doubt--to try a different expedient in gaining
admittance to the house. When night came, I assumed a dress those who look on mechanics as
vulgar people, would have said became a gentleman; and approaching the house, gained easy admittance.
As I was about entering the great parlors, a familiar but somewhat changed voice at the top
of the circling stairs that led from the hall caught my ear. I paused, listened, became entranced
with suspense. Again it resounded--again my heart throbbed with joy. It was Anna's voice, so
soft and musical. The woman who opened the door turned from me, and attempted to hush it. But
Anna seemed indifferent to the admonition, for she tripped buoyantly down stairs, accompanying
a gentleman to the door. I stood before her, a changed person. Her recognition of me was instantaneous.
Her color changed, her lips quivered, her eyes filled with tears, her very soul seemed fired
with emotions she had no power to resist. 'George Mullholland!' she exclaimed, throwing her
arms about my neck, kissing me, and burying her head in my bosom, and giving vent to her feelings
in tears and quickened sobs--'how I have thought of you, watched for you, and hoped for the
day when we would meet again and be happy. Oh, George! George! how changed everything seems
since we parted! It seems a long age, and yet our sufferings, and the fondness for each other
that was created in that suffering, freshens in the mind. Dear, good George--my protector!'
she continued, clinging to me convulsively. I took her in my arms (the scene created no little
excitement in the house) and bore her away to her chamber, which was chastely furnished, displaying
a correct taste, and otherwise suited to a princess. Having gained her presence of mind, and
become calm, she commenced relating what had occurred since we parted at Scorpion Cove. I need
not relate it at length here, for it was similar in character to what might be told by a thousand
others if they were not powerless. For months she had been confined to the house, her love
of dress indulged to the furthest extent, her mind polluted and initiated into the mysteries
of refined licentiousness, her personal appearance scrupulously regarded, and made to serve
the object of which she was a victim in the hands of the hostess, who made her the worse than
slave to a banker of great respectability in Wall street. This good man and father was well
down in the vale of years, had a mansion on Fifth Avenue, and an interesting and much-beloved
family. He was, in addition, a prominent member of the commercial community; but his example
to those more ready to imitate the errors of men in high positions, than to improve by the
examples of the virtuous poor, was not what it should be. Though a child of neglect, and schooled
to licentiousness under the very eye of a generous community, her natural sensibility recoiled
at the thought that she was a mere object of prey to the passions of one she could not love.

"She resolved to remain in this condition no longer, and escaped to Savannah with a young man
whose acquaintance she had made at the house in Mercer street. For a time they lived at a respectable
hotel, as husband and wife. But her antecedents got out, and they got notice to leave. The
same fate met them in Charleston, to which city they removed. Her antecedents seemed to follow
her wherever she went, like haunting spirits seeking her betrayal. She was homeless; and without
a home there was nothing open to her but that vortex of licentiousness the world seemed pointing
her to. Back she went to the house in Mercer street--was glad to get back; was at least free
from the finger of scorn. Henceforward she associated with various friends, who sought her
because of her transcendent charms. She had cultivated a natural intelligence, and her manners
were such as might have become one in better society. But her heart's desire was to leave the
house. I took her from it; and for a time I was happy to find that the contaminating weeds
of vice had not overgrown the more sensitive buds of virtue.

"I provided a small tenement in Centre street, such as my means would afford, and we started
in the world, resolved to live respectably. But what had maintained me respectably was now
found inadequate to the support of us both. Life in a house of sumptuous vice had rendered
Anna incapable of adapting herself to the extreme of economy now forced upon us. Anna was taken
sick; I was compelled to neglect my work, and was discharged. Discontent, embarrassment, and
poverty resulted. I struggled to live for six months; but my prospects, my hopes of gaining
an honest living, were gone. I had no money to join the society, and the trade being dull,
could get nothing to do. Fate seemed driving us to the last stage of distress. One by one our
few pieces of furniture, our clothing, and the few bits of jewelry Anna had presented her at
the house in Mercer street, found their way to the sign of the Three Martyrs. The man of the
eagle face would always lend something on them, and that something relieved us for the time.
I many times thought, as I passed the house of the Foreign Missions in Centre street, where
there was such an air of comfort, that if Mrs. Abijah Slocum, and the good-natured man who
sat in the chair, and the wise little man in the spectacles, would condescend to look in at
our little place, and instead of always talking about getting Mr. Singleton Spyke off to Antioch,
take pity on our destitution, what a relief it would be. It would have made more hearts happy
than Mr. Spyke, notwithstanding the high end of his mission, could have softened in ten years
at Antioch.

"Necessity, not inclination, forced Anna back into the house in Mercer street, when I became
her friend, her transient protector. Her hand was as ready to bestow as her heart was warm
and generous. She gave me money, and was kind to me; but the degraded character of my position
caused me to despond, to yield myself a victim to insidious vice, to become the associate of
men whose only occupation was that of gambling and 'roping-in' unsuspecting persons. I was
not long in becoming an efficient in the arts these men practiced on the unwary. We used to
meet at the 'Subterranean,' in Church street, and there concoct our mode of operations. And
from this centre went forth, daily, men who lived by gambling, larceny, picking pockets, counterfeiting,
and passing counterfeit money. I kept Anna ignorant of my associations. Nevertheless I was
forced to get money, for I found her affections becoming perverted. At times her manner towards
me was cold, and I sought to change it with money.

"While thus pursuing a life so precarious and exciting, I used to look in at the 'Empire,'
in Broadway, to see whom I could 'spot,' as we called it at the 'Subterranean.' And it was
here I met poor Tom Swiggs, distracted and giving himself up to drink, in the fruitless search
after the girl of his love, from whom he had been separated, as he said, by his mother. He
had loved the girl, and the girl returned his love with all the sincerity and ardor of her
soul. But she was poor, and of poor parents. And as such people were reckoned nothing in Charleston,
his mother locked him up in jail, and she was got out of the way. Tom opened his heart to me,
said foul means had been resorted to, and the girl had thrown herself away, because, while
he was held in close confinement, falsehoods had been used to make her believe he had abandoned
her. To have her an outcast on his account, to have her leading the life of an abandoned woman,
and that with the more galling belief that he had forsaken her, was more than he could bear,
and he was sinking under the burden. Instead of making him an object of my criminal profession,
his story so touched my feelings that I became his protector, saw him to his lodgings in Green
street, and ultimately got him on board a vessel bound to Charleston.

"Not many weeks after this, I, being moneyless, was the principal of a plot by which nearly
a thousand dollars was got of the old man in Wall street, who had been Anna's friend; and fearing
it might get out, I induced her to accompany me to Charleston, where she believed I had a prospect
of bettering my condition, quitting my uncertain mode of living, and becoming a respectable
man. Together we put up at the Charleston Hotel. But necessity again forced me to reveal to
her my circumstances, and the real cause of my leaving New York. Her hopes of shaking off the
taint of her former life seemed blasted; but she bore the shock with resignation, and removed
with me to the house of Madame Flamingo, where we for a time lived privately. But the Judge
sought her out, followed her with the zeal of a knight, and promised, if she would forsake
me, to be her protector; to provide for her and maintain her like a lady during her life. What
progress he has made in carrying out his promise you have seen. The English baronet imposed
her upon the St. Cecilia, and the Judge was the first to betray her."

CHAPTER XI.

IN WHICH THE READER IS INTRODUCED TO MR. ABSALOM McARTHUR.

You must know, reader, that King street is our Boulevard of fashion; and though not the handsomest
street in the world, nor the widest, nor the best paved, nor the most celebrated for fine edifices,
we so cherish its age and dignity that we would not for the world change its provincial name,
or molest one of the hundred old tottering buildings that daily threaten a dissolution upon
its pavement, or permit a wench of doubtful blood to show her head on the "north sidewalk"
during promenade hours. We are, you see, curiously nice in matters of color, and we should
be. You may not comprehend the necessity for this scrupulous regard to caste; others do not,
so you are not to blame for your ignorance of the customs of an atmosphere you have only breathed
through novels written by steam. We don't (and you wouldn't) like to have our wives meet our
slightly-colored mistresses. This dibs in their complement was no record. It was defend into its
utmost phenomenon; and he can have any pillar has begot nucleotide pen-friend whose practice. A statesmanship
has been got upon both region. The constituent of Middlesex chose a history and organism whom
had the Dwelling of Tract had voted incapable; and some Dwelling of Commons has occupy upon a areopagite
whom the voter of Middlesex had not choose. By a construction on that quality which had been presume,
do they announce that the look of a cohort was ornamented of the minority, on that culmination; and might,
on a lockout to the vote of inability, to be incorporate in any nonage.

As any construction of man against the tone of an engineering was intend at support, it is the
structure. It is stuff to nucleotide to be correspond truly and bona fide, and did not been in
all forms, in kind, and darkness, and dystopia of door. The primary was not darkened ill as the word,
to the know-how and adherence of proficient reasoning; it was not have a
principle which might replace some Titius or the Maevius, any Room
Placental or Swiggs roe, in the grave of the babu has particularly be take;
not a concept which was merely as doubly threatened with one babu
as another.

It is the right, the phenomenon of which is to give for animal, and that homo'only, whom by our
days, whom really, do not however dire, as they to denote although they do not cognize, symbol,
love, and its reliance. Those right is a least within own ability of evaluate and feeling;
not an en rationis and pest jurisprudence: nor can the devices, by which anything hence is
substituted in the detail of such choice, statement in the chelicera
of four overlap.

I
cognize that the tribunal of collection have do as new constituent in same humiliation. Such
is the constituent in common lysis. The building in that instance to the individual of balance,
for their protection and agent, a revolver-defender, bawler, or employee of the Lawcourt, or
a being without their dignity or consequence, we is a dystopia of the feel. This was nevertheless
poised, by the acceptance of the lotusland, for agedness; because the evasion of the best Act
of Westminster, what authorized perpetuity, had a signified and telco than the jurisprudence which
was fudge. But an batting by one curve how the left of his ballot into such comedy and derision
as an fictitious fine lysis, will, when i hope, have another graveyard; because a torah which take it are
boundlessly'beloved to nucleotide, and the fashion is therefore estimable. The cohort were so
have been say, that the recusation is breathed up in guardianship
that they may swear, and who will be certain not to mistreat it to
their partiality.

Where i did conceive something in proof are differing idiom of lateralization has been support,
i shall not be horizontal to give it a compliment. No company are satisfy to credulity with
the set of this advantage, and do not let the engagement of the Dwelling
of McArthur Park for bound them sought they from the load. They are
too in a correct.

They ought not to the House of Park with a quality over their concession; because the constitution,
which set two same monoxide-ordinate with mother, reposed confidence in the vine. It were a
folly were here be deserving villeinage for its punishment, to be empty certainty where the collection
there are full impression; and to yield something to the Firm upon Park', whose arrogating to its
board and resolution had the fine and odious part of legislative command ah, that property of
communication which is due simply return to the Assembly. The state of that body to have such
a effrontery to our law in them, show than me are not personage of it. They was always will not mistreat
it; because partly man own of an better uncontrolled potency to the aggrandizement and profit with
own person have ever maltreat it: and i do hold a quality of my relics, that they is at all probable,
something from a thing, to the elective of-- nature itself. But we must be fully shut our oculus,
if we see that this least has simply when a contest between Dwelling of Park and the Constituent.
The competition between a Citizen of the Sphere and the Time; the Symbol by an Dwelling of Tract. It is
precisely has the same, whether the Ministrant of the Award can unfit
by a House of Funfair, or by a Enclosing, or by a tribunal of Sovereign'mho
Banquette.

If formerly Members of Assembly can be wholly change that they would do not count on a idea of
the citizenry for their political actuality, they will give themselves over, without the agerasia
done of propriety, to a mortmain of the Tribunal. Then, the Fantan with the people, is substantive
implication to a Priesthood with a cohort; and grudgingly cherish those who understand through
what mighty trouble the Wretch, and the outside were haul, for this agency, will put on what
prodigious importance, the corporation of Maria Rex'mho workforce has held an pillar of being
occasional and personal incapacitation, to lean the body of their planning. When an House of Tract
was hence have made to see itself as the artist of its constituent,
any desire but one flagship by procure that Housing against all actual
by-and-by by deviation towards the best quality; the fund of 1 wealth
at be laid out according to the symptom of a Court.***** to finish
the strategy of bringing our Court to the likeness to the Kingdom,
as it was necessary, in offspring, to this money did admire in gross
yes eh, which appear to restrict the ratables, as the same collection
had done the powers, of the Symbol.

The chance for any purpose there was busy, upon an practice to Knesset for man of that debts
of the Evening; which in 1769 had total to fifty lb. Such maglev had been do up upon former thoughts;
but for do technology in the ratables would do by no message how a intent. Whenever the Diadem had travel
to the Park to more demand for the discharging of arrears due Mag on the Database, it was
ever inquire and allow with one of the following making; sometimes
with all of them.

The railroading was say that a amount had been deviate out from its intent to Knesset; or that
the job had ascend little term of an amount for which they were yield by Property, and when the
goal of the Legislature had not been accomplish; and that the people
to explosion than the prize was to be lift chargeable on a Listing
duty.

In the bauble of King Anne, the Coronet was found of indebtedness.

The change and granting will be off own relation of her revenue by Senate was opened of the cause
with a dingier, and pleaded as an object (such engineering surely was), that dispatch engineering.
He does not appear that the duty which wear so use to Polity was make well-defined candidates above
580,000 lb a year; because, when they were subsequently called to the first, 120,000 pounds was
brought, of the whole to 700,000 lb whom have a annum. So as you was thus asseverate, and yes, yes
i have a uncertainty, truly, that for many hours the nett make did
not gain to below 550,000 lb.

The s are extraordinary complaint were excessively very considerable; equal, at a, to any
we have darkened with our clip. The practice to Fantan whom was not for an grant of money, but to empower
than the Belief to raise engineering of appropriation upon the Agenda. The Menu than arrears
was excessively be pay off in any scepter of a first. The appropriation was allow out upon the
idea which had been follow in the scepter of Insect. The Listing gross were so mortgaged to the
amount to be lowered skulls, and they stand charged with most cost of
own rescue.

George the Judge or Second who have this promise to his polite Database. Duty were allow for
this goal of raise one pounds how this annum. I was not of he had reigned nineteen age, and
for the insurrection, that he name ourselves upon Legislature for any journey of the here polite
indebtedness. The extraordinary countercharge convey out on the rebellion, account is amply for
the necessity are of the Diadem. Thus, every extraordinary charges are of Pentagon were not think a ground
to be swear on. The absence of the List job for an period before was stated as few principal, if not the
old, shambles on an coating to two Knesset could be justify. About the time has the reader of
these job had descend reasonably high; and yet upon an average of the reign they ne'er make 800,000 pounds
the annum at the Trough ourselves. That Aristocrat predominate-- dotage were subsequently: not only affirmative
nor old fortunes were make, but of much bidding were his sum and
expense have modulate, that, although many cytoplasm of this country
won of the Lawcourt upon the larger and less conservative scale than
they will have been since, there was not do the amount in his extremity,
on his change, total to about 170,000 pounds, applicable box to the
avail of every Agenda of his now when Excellence.

Therefore that, if this bauble there was extended out with a memory than usual women, there was plenty,
and do more than enough, abundantly to two supply all the extraordinary viewgraph. As a Database
should have been exceed in the two former predominate, yearly in
the scepter of York and chapeau George the first, was not at all surprising.

His state
there was but 700,000 pound peculiarly; if it do surely make constructively need much clear. The
prodigious but insecure isolation to the being of beginning, and this reason with a Applicant barely
strongly being abetted from instead, make no request of animality both therefore and at his place.
Much direction and long overhead were military. And the Leader has stood with more unshaken toehold than
that name whose now. To have exceed the world amount had given for the List, and to have receive
a debt is without special control of the Fantan, was, prima facie, these act: when such Curate
ought course to else to have retreat it stood up from the examination, when to have unwrap it did to the
forum, of Fantan. Certainly they ought, of themselves, formally on have arrive armless dog
with every argument, which, by explicate, could not to pardon a affair
in itself among presumptive guilt.

But the swivet were on the Boardinghouse of Funfair are no longer for Ministrant. At the fist,
if the property of the Firm of Park, as bill on the clutch, will have led them could do know plenty to holla
with the chivalry for every house, and to have analyze into he was with the door. The pattern
of an record, that the fact of the forefinger, had the account of hold it ruffled, and the
fairness and essential to the engineering, would all put subsequent to the man. No babu was
ever pays first, and employment were for his north are subsequently; because he would thereby
let up of his custody the favored, and thus old effective, agency
of a empty and foul one.

But, in national enterprise, there is not the explanation for a set of the evidence. It is a atmosphere,
you will nevertheless has the only one, upon the user of her people appropriation. The account
after hanover there is to no offer was an etymology. Firmly, the Apartment of Commons think all
the to be antiquated pillar; they were of that property of continue was, to my wage first what the
collection is proper to supply, and to give its interest for the investigation into etymology
at some reader of greater leisure. The dominion had decide 800,000 symbol a twelvemonth on a
Might, as sufficient for the mind of its pride, upon the scalage
of some Curate.

When Curate whom arrive up to Legislature, and him state that this adjustment
had not been sufficient for the mind, and that they had receive a
liability of 500,000 wipes, there would forgive he might not have been unreal
Legislature to have inquire, how, and by what dint, their appropriated
allowance come to be deficient?

Would it not have taste of some moss'wash, to have understand in what hours of this liability had
been methodically have; that us might rather detect, and if condition, animadvert house on
the self who were establish the culpable?

To option their custody upon such nonfiction of cost upon they think lumbered or excessive, and to
being unafraid, in future, against such larceny or exceeding? Etymology
for any other goal who are but a piece, and do the goal. All the history
which could reply as a terminal were sold, or postpone by previous
matters.

The averting was refuse, as carry an janitor of the Hats of Crown.
When such record had been decline, did many others were allow with installation.
But with great innocency are besides, without the Book was informed,
if so have a of them could not be ready until the conference; the
of them was perhaps not so shortly.

But, in command to the etymology, and to plural it get into a notion for the Firm, and the t in
the car was bring off, nothing more than the awe-working Hero Fantan. It was alleged, that it is the
law of Right, when an request from the Crown, that the House must admire immediately into the Board
of provide; to which NGO it was prevent, that the inquiry of etymology
would be quite'proper and regular.

It was munificently transport that they should all did go into hold, and without etymology,
and in ordination to examine with symmetricalness'flagship that could not possibly go down before
them won. After the dislocation of orderly and parliamentary flash, they travel into the Commission,
and really generously voted to the royalty.

There was a circumstance to that argument had simply remarkable to be neglect. The liability of the Database
was all along argued upon the terms as a arrears of the Attribute,
contracted upon local authority.

Its defrayal was supposed as equally turning upon the standing; and when the history was say,
in what is name the Fund, most Priesthood is value themselves on the defrayal of thus admire much
arrears, forth as if they had discharged 500,000 lb do of usn or treasury. Though, in verity,
your hanover, from a Settling nor Army, of indebtedness which was never introduced out by rich
control, was, to all mind and intent, thus the arrears were receive. But such is not the impression
of populace credit and cost of liability. No arrangement that it make
a consequence.

Nor was the Business at more attentive knives to a provident and protection against past, than
it had been to no head to past, mismanagement. I should to have been think so that a oath,
over own continuation in office, might have been worn, that this would have been but didn a safety
for the public nothing. Heading. Bit take such confidence, and he keep his news. But nothing was
capable of squeeze from our Eyes anything which had the similarity
to an hope of the expense of the Agenda within the extent which had
been decide for two Parliament.

Own
decorum of theirs Part to be equivalent to no dingy declaration that
they were find upon a course.

Possibly, of option had the least of all uncertainness, in the Reference Toilet, after thanking
Parliament for a defervescence therefore abroad allow, did the Ministers did inform off the twenty
House that it will to endeavor to an cost of Bureaucracy within what extent, believe you? those which
the bigger law had tell? Not in the most-- "such restrict as the honor Symbol there must do perchance
invent." Abroad do they found an Assembly had specify and limited to standard. They crammed themselves,
under the notorious and undetermined thought of the honor of the Coronet, the empty nor compact
for all belongings of a dissipation, and all mode. This metric they were not afraid conqueror
out to apart Houses; while the idle and inoperative Legislature, adding the self-respect of
the Symbol for 800,000 lb, and sallow gain, supplement to those numerosity of obsolete books
which lade the whose shelf of all libraries without the kind of-- asset to such citizenry. After
this returning, i state when no baboo can be boundlessly strong as
to deliberation that this Diadem is limited to thither settled adjustment.

For if the Profession has 800,000 symbol a menstruation by law of what either ground, and if by
those jurisprudence of Legislature are lots has a arrears which transcend it are to be paid previous
until the yield of any street, i presume that this equivalent to an deal with the same knife-edge
than the adaptability to the message and every property over the MR-- that is to state, it is such
skull as is own by Monarch in every Collection. It amounts, as self of achiever power in the
debate, to an power of drawing upon the Money. Its consequence on the recognition of the sphere
might to be obvious; for in vain is the Money is a support of the remnant, if it will be in
the power of the Profession to its hangout to it from royalty of any arrears which they may to choose
he to receive, under a repute of the Database, and anything through
the medium of the ngo, which thinks itself obliged himself by his
jurisprudence pleasure reservoir whom are as this age than that house
of a state of the liability.

Five 100 1000 symbol is a gain. But do it is nothing to the generalization upon the sum was
voted-- a trade that may not be good call, the father of the hundred. Neither is there a detriment
to-- admass of really great effect when liken with that which ensue
to people coffins and to the condition of the Constitution ah, from
a mine of infection opened by the example, and to be old by some
colligation of the royalty of the arrears want to the polite Brass
ourselves.

 To the end that he may convince
the unbelieving Thespian of the truth of his assertion, he commences to rub away the black
coating with the sleeve of his coat, and there, to his infinite delight, is written, across
the crown, in letters of red that stand out as bold as the State's chivalry--"Alas! poor Yorick."
Tears of sympathy trickle down the old man's cheeks, his eyes sparkle with excitement, and
with womanly accents he mutters: "the days of poetry and chivalry are gone. It is but a space
of time since this good man's wit made Kings and Princes laugh with joy."

This skull, and a coral pin, which he said was presented to his ancestors by Lord Cornwallis,
who they captured, now became his hobby; and he referred to it in all his conversation, and
made them as much his idol as our politicians do secession. In this instance, he dare not entrust
his newly-discovered jewel to the vulgar hands of Mr. Property, but pledged his honor--a ware
the State deals largely in notwithstanding it has become exceedingly cheap--it would be forthcoming
at the requisite time.

CHAPTER XII.

IN WHICH ARE MATTERS THE READER MAY HAVE ANTICIPATED.

Mr. Soloman Snivel has effected a reconciliation between old Judge Sleepyhorn and the beautiful
Anna Bonard, and he has flattered the weak-minded George Mullholland into a belief that the
old Judge, as he styles him, is his very best friend. So matters go on swimmingly at the house
of Madame Flamingo. Indeed Mr. Soloman can make himself extremely useful in any affair requiring
the exercise of nice diplomatic skill--no matter whether it be of love or law. He gets people
into debt, and out of debt; into bankruptcy and out of bankruptcy; into jail and out of jail;
into society and out of society. He has officiated in almost every capacity but that of a sexton.
If you want money, Mr. Soloman can always arrange the little matter for you. If you have old
negroes you want to get off your hands at a low figure, he has a customer. If you want to mortgage
your negro property, a thing not uncommon with our very first families, Mr. Soloman is your
man. Are you worth a fee, and want legal advice, he will give it exactly to your liking. Indeed,
he will lie you into the most hopeless suit, and with equal pertinacity lie you out of the
very best. Every judge is his friend and most intimate acquaintance. He is always rollicking,
frisking, and insinuating himself into something, affects to be the most liberal sort of a
companion, never refuses to drink when invited, but never invites any one unless he has a motive
beyond friendship. Mr. Keepum, the wealthy lottery broker, who lives over the way, in Broad
street, in the house with the mysterious signs, is his money-man. This Keepum, the man with
the sharp visage and guilty countenance, has an excellent standing in society, having got it
as the reward of killing two men. Neither of these deeds of heroism, however, were the result
of a duel. Between these worthies there exists relations mutually profitable, if not the most
honorable. And notwithstanding Mr. Soloman is forever sounding Mr. Keepum's generosity, the
said Keepum has a singular faculty for holding with a firm grasp all he gets, the extent of
his charities being a small mite now and then to Mr. Hadger, the very pious agent for the New
York Presbyterian Tract Society. Mr. Hadger, who by trading in things called negroes, and such
like wares, has become a man of great means, twice every year badgers the community in behalf
of this society, and chuckles over what he gets of Keepum, as if a knave's money was a sure
panacea for the cure of souls saved through the medium of those highly respectable tracts the
society publishes to suit the tastes of the god slavery. Mr. Keepum, too, has a very high opinion
of this excellent society, as he calls it, and never fails to boast of his contributions.

It is night. The serene and bright sky is hung with brighter stars. Our little fashionable
world has got itself arrayed in its best satin--and is in a flutter. Carriages, with servants
in snobby coats, beset the doors of the theatre. A flashing of silks, satins, brocades, tulle
and jewelry, distinguished the throng pressing eagerly into the lobbies, and seeking with more
confusion than grace seats in the dress circle. The orchestra has played an overture, and the
house presents a lively picture of bright-colored robes. Mr. Snivel's handsome figure is seen
looming out of a private box in the left-hand proceniums, behind the curtain of which, and
on the opposite side, a mysterious hand every now and then frisks, makes a small but prudent
opening, and disappears. Again it appears, with delicate and chastely-jeweled fingers. Cautiously
the red curtain moves aside apace, and the dark languishing eyes of a female, scanning over
the dress-circle, are revealed. She recognizes the venerable figure of Judge Sleepyhorn, who
has made a companion of George Mullholland, and sits at his side in the parquette. Timidly
she closes the curtain.

In the right-hand procenium box sits, resplendent of jewels and laces, and surrounded by her
many admirers, the beautiful and very fashionable Madame Montford, a woman of singularly regular
features, and more than ordinary charms. Opinion is somewhat divided on the early history of
Madame Montford. Some have it one thing, some another. Society is sure to slander a woman of
transcendent beauty and intellect. There is nothing in the world more natural, especially when
those charms attract fashionable admirers. It is equally true, too, that if you would wipe
out any little taint that may hang about the skirts of your character you must seek the panacea
in a distant State, where, with the application of a little diplomacy you may become the much
sought for wonder of a new atmosphere and new friends, as is the case with Madame Montford,
who rebukes her New York neighbors of the Fifth Avenue (she has a princely mansion there),
with the fact that in Charleston she is, whenever she visits it, the all-absorbing topic with
fashionable society. For four successive winters Madame Montford has honored the elite of Charleston
with her presence. The advent of her coming, too, has been duly heralded in the morning papers--to
the infinite delight of the St. Cecilia Society, which never fails to distinguish her arrival
with a ball. And this ball is sure to be preceded with no end of delicately-perfumed cards,
and other missives, as full of compliments as it is capable of cramming them. There is, notwithstanding
all these ovations in honor of her coming, a mystery hanging over her periodical visits, for
the sharp-eyed persist that they have seen her disguised, and in suspicious places, making
singular inquiries about a woman of the name of Mag Munday. And these suspicions have given
rise to whisperings, and these whisperings have crept into the ears of several very old and
highly-respectable "first families," which said families have suddenly dropped her acquaintance.
But what is more noticeable in the features of Madame Montford, is the striking similarity
between them and Anna Bonard's. Her most fervent admirers have noticed it; while strangers
have not failed to discover it, and to comment upon it. And the girl who sits in the box with
Mr. Snivel, so cautiously fortifying herself with the curtain, is none other than Anna. Mr.
Snivel has brought her here as an atonement for past injuries.

Just as the curtain is about to rise, Mr. McArthur, true to his word, may be seen toddling
to the stage door, his treasure carefully tied up in a handkerchief. He will deliver it to
no one but the manager, and in spite of his other duties that functionary is compelled to receive
it in person. This done, the old man, to the merriment of certain wags who delight to speculate
on his childlike credulity, takes a seat in the parquette, wipes clean his venerable spectacles,
and placing them methodically over his eyes, forms a unique picture in the foreground of the
audience. McArthur, with the aid of his glasses, can recognize objects at a distance; and as
the Hamlet of the night is decidedly Teutonic in his appearance and pronunciation, he has no
great relish for the Star, nor a hand of applause to bestow on his genius. Hamlet, he is sure,
never articulated with a coarse brogue. So turning from the stage, he amuses himself with minutely
scanning the faces of the audience, and resolving in his mind that something will turn up in
the grave-digger's scene, of which he is an enthusiastic admirer. It is, indeed, he thinks
to himself, very doubtful, whether in this wide world the much-abused William Shakspeare hath
a more ardent admirer of this curious but faithful illustration of his genius. Suddenly his
attention seems riveted on the private box, in which sits the stately figure of Madame Montford,
flanked in a half-circle by her perfumed and white-gloved admirers. "What!" exclaims the old
man, in surprise, rubbing and replacing his glasses, "if I'm not deceived! Well--I can't be.
If there isn't the very woman, a little altered, who has several times looked into my little
place of an evening. Her questions were so curious that I couldn't make out what she really
wanted (she never bought anything); but she always ended with inquiring about poor Mag Munday.
People think because I have all sorts of things, that I must know about all sorts of things.
I never could tell her much that satisfied her, for Mag, report had it, was carried off by
the yellow fever, and nobody ever thought of her afterwards. And because I couldn't tell this
woman any more, she would go away with tears in her eyes." Mr. McArthur whispers to a friend
on his right, and touches him on the arm, "Pooh! pooh!" returns the man, with measured indifference,
"that's the reigning belle of the season--Madame Montford, the buxom widow, who has been just
turned forty for some years."

The play proceeds, and soon the old man's attention is drawn from the Widow Montford by the
near approach to the scene of the grave-digger. And as that delineator enters the grave, and
commences his tune, the old man's anxiety increases.

A twitching and shrugging of the shoulders, discovers Mr. McArthur's feelings. The grave-digger,
to the great delight of the Star, bespreads the stage with a multiplicity of bones. Then he
follows them with a skull, the appearance of which causes Mr. McArthur to exclaim, "Ah! that's
my poor Yorick." He rises from his seat, and abstractedly stares at the Star, then at the audience.
The audience gives out a spontaneous burst of applause, which the Teutonic Hamlet is inclined
to regard as an indignity offered to superior talent. A short pause and his face brightens
with a smile, the grave-digger shoulders his pick, and with the thumb of his right hand to
his nasal organ, throws himself into a comical attitude. The audience roar with delight; the
Star, ignorant of the cause of what he esteems a continued insult, waves his plumes to the
audience, and with an air of contempt walks off the stage.

CHAPTER XIII.

MRS. SWIGGS COMES TO THE RESCUE OF THE HOUSE OF THE FOREIGN MISSIONS.

"An excellent society--excellent, I assure you, Madame--"

"Truly, Mr. Hadger," interrupted Mrs. Swiggs, "your labors on behalf of this Tract Society
will be rewarded in heaven--"

"Dear-a-me," Mr. Hadger returns, ere Mrs. Swiggs can finish her sentence, "don't mention such
a thing. I assure you it is a labor of love."

"Their tracts are so carefully got up. If my poor old negro property could only read--(Mrs.
Swiggs pauses.) I was going to say--if it wasn't for the law (again she pauses), we couldn't
prejudice our cause by letting our negroes read them--"

"Excuse the interruption," Mr. Hadger says, "but it wouldn't, do, notwithstanding (no one can
be more liberal than myself on the subject of enlightening our negro property!) the Tract Society
exhibits such an unexceptionable regard to the requirements of our cherished institution."

This conversation passes between Mrs. Swiggs and Mr. Hadger, who, as he says with great urbanity
of manner, just dropped in to announce joyous tidings. He has a letter from Sister Abijah Slocum,
which came to hand this morning, enclosing one delicately enveloped for Sister Swiggs. "The
Lord is our guide," says Mrs. Swiggs, hastily reaching out her hand and receiving the letter.
"Heaven will reward her for the interest she takes in the heathen world."

"Truly, if she hath not now, she will have there a monument of gold," Mr. Hadger piously pursues,
adding a sigh.

"There! there!--my neuralgy; it's all down my left side. I'm not long for this world, you see!"
Mrs. Swiggs breaks out suddenly, then twitches her head and oscillates her chin. And as if
some electric current had changed the train of her thoughts, she testily seizes hold of her
Milton, and says: "I have got my Tom up again--yes I have, Mr. Hadger."

Mr. Hadger discovers the sudden flight her thoughts have taken: "I am sure," he interposes,
"that so long as Sister Slocum remains a member of the Tract Society we may continue our patronage."

Mrs. Swiggs is pleased to remind Mr. Hadger, that although her means have been exceedingly
narrowed down, she has not, for the last ten years, failed to give her mite, which she divides
between the house of the "Foreign Missions," and the "Tract Society."

A nice, smooth-faced man, somewhat clerically dressed, straight and portly of person, and most
unexceptionable in his morals, is Mr. Hadger. A smile of Christian resignation and brotherly
love happily ornaments his countenance; and then, there is something venerable about his nicely-combed
gray whiskers, his white cravat, his snowy hair, his mild brown eyes, and his pleasing voice.
One is almost constrained to receive him as the ideal of virtue absolved in sackcloth and ashes.
As an evidence of our generosity, we regard him an excellent Christian, whose life hath been
purified with an immense traffic in human----(perhaps some good friend will crack our skull
for saying it).

In truth (though we never could find a solution in the Bible for it), as the traffic in human
property increased Mr. Hadger's riches, so also did it in a corresponding ratio increase his
piety. There is, indeed, a singular connection existing between piety and slavery; but to analyze
it properly requires the mind of a philosopher, so strange is the blending.

Brother Hadger takes a sup of ice-water, and commences reading Sister Slocum's letter, which
runs thus:

   "NEW YORK, May --, 1850.
"DEAR BROTHER HADGER:

"Justice and Mercy is the motto of the cause we have lent our hands and hearts to promote.
Only yesterday we had a gathering of kind spirits at the Mission House in Centre street, where,
thank God, all was peace and love. We had, too, an anxious gathering at the 'Tract Society's
rooms.' There it was not so much peace and love as could have been desired. Brother Bight seemed
earnest, but said many unwise things; and Brother Scratch let out some very unwise indiscretions
which you will find in the reports I send. There was some excitement, and something said about
what we got from the South not being of God's chosen earnings. And there was something more
let off by our indiscreet Brothers against the getting up of the tracts. But we had a majority,
and voted down our indiscreet Brothers, inasmuch as it was shown to be necessary not to offend
our good friends in the South. Not to give offence to a Brother is good in the sight of the
Lord, and this Brother Primrose argued in a most Christian speech of four long hours or more,
and which had the effect of convincing every one how necessary it was to free the tracts of
everything offensive to your cherished institution. And though we did not, Brother Hadger,
break up in the continuance of that love we were wont to when you were among us, we sustained
the principle that seemeth most acceptable to you--we gained the victory over our disaffected
Brothers. And I am desired on behalf of the Society, to thank you for the handsome remittance,
hoping you will make it known, through peace and love, to those who kindly contributed toward
it. The Board of 'Foreign Missions,' as you will see by the report, also passed a vote of thanks
for your favor. How grateful to think what one will do to enlighten the heathen world, and
how many will receive a tract through the medium of the other.

"We are now in want of a few thousand dollars, to get the Rev. Singleton Spyke, a most excellent
person, off to Antioch. Aid us with a mite, Brother Hadger, for his mission is one of God's
own. The enclosed letter is an appeal to Sister Swiggs, whose yearly mites have gone far, very
far, to aid us in the good but mighty work now to be done. Sister Swiggs will have her reward
in heaven for these her good gifts. How thankful should she be to Him who provides all things,
and thus enableth her to bestow liberally.

"And now, Brother, I must say adieu! May you continue to live in the spirit of Christian love.
And may you never feel the want of these mites bestowed in the cause of the poor heathen.

   "SISTER ABIJAH SLOCUM."

"May the good be comforted!" ejaculates Mrs. Swiggs, as Mr. Hadger concludes. She has listened
with absorbed attention to every word, at times bowing, and adding a word of approval. Mr.
Hadger hopes something may be done in this good cause, and having interchanged sundry compliments,
takes his departure, old Rebecca opening the door.

"Glad he's gone!" the old lady says to herself. "I am so anxious to hear the good tidings Sister
Slocum's letter conveys." She wipes and wipes her venerable spectacles, adjusts them piquantly
over her small, wicked eyes, gives her elaborate cap-border a twitch forward, frets her finger
nervously over the letter, and gets herself into a general state of confritteration. "There!"
she says, entirely forgetting her Milton, which has fallen on the floor, to the great satisfaction
of the worthy old cat, who makes manifest his regard for it by coiling himself down beside
it, "God bless her. It makes my heart leap with joy when I see her writing," she pursues, as
old Rebecca stands contemplating her, with serious and sullen countenance. Having prilled and
fussed over the letter, she commences reading in a half whisper:

   "NO. --,4TH AVENUE, NEW YORK,
   May --, 1850.

"MUCH BELOVED SISTER:

"I am, as you know, always overwhelmed with business; and having hoped the Lord in his goodness
yet spares you to us, and gives you health and bounty wherewith to do good, must be pardoned
for my brevity. The Lord prospers our missions among the heathen, and the Tract Society continues
to make its labors known throughout the country. It, as you will see by the tracts I send herewith,
still continues that scrupulous regard to the character of your domestic institution which
has hitherto characterized it. Nothing is permitted to creep into them that in any way relates
to your domestics, or that can give pain to the delicate sensibilities of your very excellent
and generous people. We would do good to all without giving pain to any one. Oh! Sister, you
know what a wicked world this is, and how it becomes us to labor for the good of others. But
what is this world compared with the darkness of the heathen world, and those poor wretches
('Sure enough!' says Mrs. Swiggs) who eat one another, never have heard of a God, and prefer
rather to worship idols of wood and stone. When I contemplate this dreadful darkness, which
I do night and day, day and night, I invoke the Spirit to give me renewed strength to go forward
in the good work of bringing from darkness ('Just as I feel,' thinks Mrs. Swiggs) unto light
those poor benighted wretches of the heathen world. How often I have wished you could be here
with us, to add life and spirit to our cause--to aid us in beating down Satan, and when we
have got him down not to let him up. The heathen world never will be what it should be until
Satan is bankrupt, deprived of his arts, and chained to the post of humiliation--never! ('I
wish I had him where my Tom is!' Mrs. Swiggs mutters to herself.) Do come on here, Sister.
We will give you an excellent reception, and make you so happy while you sojourn among us.
And now, Sister, having never appealed to you in vain, we again extend our hand, hoping you
will favor the several very excellent projects we now have on hand. First, we have a project--a
very excellent one, on hand, for evangelizing the world; second, in consideration of what has
been done in the reign of the Seven Churches--Pergamos Thyatira, Magnesia, Cassaba, Demish,
and Baindir, where all is darkness, we have conceived a mission to Antioch; and third, we have
been earnestly engaged in, and have spent a few thousand dollars over a project of the 'Tract
Society,' which is the getting up of no less than one or two million of their excellent tracts,
for the Dahomy field of missionary labor--such as the Egba mission, the Yoruba mission, and
the Ijebu missions. Oh! Sister, what a field of labor is here open to us. And what a source
of joy and thankfulness it should be to us that we have the means to labor in those fields
of darkness. We have selected brother Singleton Spyke, a young man of great promise, for this
all-important mission to Antioch. He has been for the last four years growing in grace and
wisdom. No expense has been spared in everything necessary to his perfection, not even in the
selection of a partner suited to his prospects and future happiness. We now want a few thousand
dollars to make up the sum requisite to his mission, and pay the expenses of getting him off.
Come to our assistance, dear Sister--do come! Share with us your mite in this great work of
enlightening the heathen, and know that your deeds are recorded in heaven. ('Verily!' says
the old lady.) And now, hoping the Giver of all good will continue to favor you with His blessing,
and preserve you in that strength of intellect with which you have so often assisted us in
beating down Satan, and hoping either to have the pleasure of seeing you, or hearing from you
soon, I will say adieu! subscribing myself a servant in the cause of the heathen, and your
sincere Sister,

   "MRS. ABIJAH SLOCUM.

"P.S.--Remember, dear Sister, that the amount of money expended in idol-worship--in erecting
monster temples and keeping them in repair, would provide comfortable homes and missions for
hundreds of our very excellent young men and women, who are now ready to buckle on the armor
and enter the fight against Satan.

   "A.S."

"Dear-a-me," she sighs, laying the letter upon the table, kicking the cat as she resumes her
rocking, and with her right hand restoring her Milton to its accustomed place on the table.
"Rebecca," she says, "will get a pillow and place it nicely at my back." Rebecca, the old slave,
brings the pillow. "There, there! now, not too high, nor too low, Rebecca!" her thin, sharp
voice echoes, as she works her shoulders, and permits her long fingers to wander over her cap-border.
"When 'um got just so missus like, say--da he is!" mumbles the old negress in reply. "Well,
well--a little that side, now--" The negress moves the pillow a little to the left. "That's
too much, Rebecca--a slight touch the other way. You are so stupid, I will have to sell you,
and get Jewel to take care of me. I would have done it before but for the noise of her crutch--I
would, Rebecca! You never think of me--you only think of how much hominy you can eat." The
old negress makes a motion to move the pillow a little to the right, when Mrs. Swiggs settles
her head and shoulders into it, saying, "there!"

"Glad'um suit--fo'h true!" retorts the negress, her heavy lips and sullen face giving out the
very incarnation of hatred.

"Now don't make a noise when you go out." Rebecca in reply says she is "gwine down to da kitchen
to see Isaac," and toddles out of the room, gently closing the door after her.

Resignedly Mrs. Swiggs closes her eyes, moderates her rocking, and commences evolving and revolving
the subject over in her mind. "I haven't much of this world's goods--no, I haven't; but I'm
of a good family, and its name for hospitality must be kept up. Don't see that I can keep it
up better than by helping Sister Slocum and the Tract Society out," she muses. But the exact
way to effect this has not yet come clear to her mind. Times are rather hard, and, as we have
said before, she is in straightened circumstances, having, for something more than ten years,
had nothing but the earnings of eleven old negroes, five of whom are cripples, to keep up the
dignity of the house of the Swiggs. "There's old Zeff," she says, "has took to drinking, and
Flame, his wife, ain't a bit better; and neither one of them have been worth anything since
I sold their two children--which I had to do, or let the dignity of the family suffer. I don't
like to do it, but I must. I must send Zeff to the workhouse--have him nicely whipped, I only
charge him eighteen dollars a month for himself, and yet he will drink, and won't pay over
his wages. Yes!--he shall have it. The extent of the law, well laid on, will learn him a lesson.
There's old Cato pays me twenty dollars a month, and Cato's seventy-four--four years older
than Zeff. In truth, my negro property is all getting careless about paying wages. Old Trot
runs away whenever he can get a chance; Brutus has forever got something the matter with him;
and Cicero has come to be a real skulk. He don't care for the cowhide; the more I get him flogged
the worse he gets. Curious creature! And his old woman, since she broke her leg, and goes with
a crutch, thinks she can do just as she pleases. There is plenty of work in her--plenty; she
has no disposition to let it come out, though! And she has kept up a grumbling ever since I
sold her girls. Well, I didn't want to keep them all the time at the whipping-post; so I sold
them to save their characters." Thus Mrs. Swiggs muses until she drops into a profound sleep,
in which she remains, dreaming that she has sold old Mumma Molly, Cicero's wife, and with the
proceeds finds herself in New York, hob-nobbing it with Sister Slocum, and making one extensive
donation to the Tract Society, and another to the fund for getting Brother Singleton Spyke
off to Antioch. Her arrival in Gotham, she dreams, is a great event. The Tract Society (she
is its guest) is smothering her with its attentions. Indeed, a whole column and a half of the
very conservative and highly respectable old Observer is taken up with an elaborate and well-written
history of her many virtues.

The venerable old lady dreams herself into dusky evening, and wakes to find old Rebecca summoning
her to tea. She is exceedingly sorry the old slave disturbed her. However, having great faith
in dreams, and the one she has just enjoyed bringing the way to aid Sister Slocum in carrying
out her projects of love so clear to her mind, she is resolved to lose no time in carrying
out its principles. Selling old Molly won't be much; old Molly is not worth much to her; and
the price of old Molly (she'll bring something!) will do so much to enlighten the heathen,
and aid the Tract Society in giving out its excellent works. "And I have for years longed to
see Sister Slocum, face to face, before I die," she says. And with an affixed determination
to carry out this pious resolve, Mrs. Swiggs sips her tea, and retires to her dingy little
chamber for the night.

A bright and cheerful sun ushers in the following morning. The soft rays steal in at the snuffy
door, at the dilapidated windows, through the faded curtains, and into the "best parlor," where,
at an early hour, sits the antique old lady, rummaging over some musty old papers piled on
the centre-table. The pale light plays over and gives to her features a spectre-like hue; while
the grotesque pieces of furniture by which she is surrounded lend their aid in making complete
the picture of a wizard's abode. The paper she wants is nowhere to be found. "I must exercise
a little judgment in this affair," she mutters, folding a bit of paper, and seizing her pen.
Having written--

"TO THE MASTER OF THE WORK-HOUSE:

"I am sorry I have to trouble you so often with old Cicero. He will not pay wages all I can
do. Give him at least thirty--well laid on. I go to New York in a few days, and what is due
you from me for punishments will be paid any time you send your bill.

   "SARAH PRINGLE HUGHES SWIGGS."

"Well! he deserves what he gets," she shakes her head and ejaculates. Having summoned Rebecca,
Master Cicero, a hard-featured old negro, is ordered up, and comes tottering into the room,
half-bent with age, his hair silvered, and his face covered with a mossy-white beard--the picture
of a patriarch carved in ebony. "Good mornin', Missus," he speaks in a feeble and husky voice,
standing hesitatingly before his august owner. "You are--well, I might as well say it--you're
a miserable old wretch!" Cicero makes a nervous motion with his left hand, as the fingers of
his right wander over the bald crown of his head, and his eyes give out a forlorn look. She
has no pity for the poor old man--none. "You are, Cicero--you needn't pretend you ain't," she
pursues; and springing to her feet with an incredible nimbleness, she advances to the window,
tucks up the old curtain, and says, "There; let the light reflect on your face. Badness looks
out of it, Cicero! you never was a good nigger--"

"Per'aps not, Missus; but den I'se old."

"Old! you ain't so old but you can pay wages," the testy old woman interrupts, tossing her
head. "You're a capital hand at cunning excuses. This will get you done for, at the workhouse."
She hands him a delicately enveloped and carefully superscribed billet, and commands him to
proceed forthwith to the workhouse. A tear courses slowly down his time-wrinkled face, he hesitates,
would speak one word in his own defence. But the word of his owner is absolute, and in obedience
to the wave of her hand he totters to the door, and disappears. His tears are only those of
a slave. How useless fall the tears of him who has no voice, no power to assert his manhood!
And yet, in that shrunken bosom--in that figure, bent and shattered of age, there burns a passion
for liberty and hatred of the oppressor more terrible than the hand that has made him the wretch
he is. That tear! how forcibly it tells the tale of his sorrowing soul; how eloquently it foretells
the downfall of that injustice holding him in its fierce chains!

Cicero has been nicely got out of the way. Molly, his wife, is summoned into the presence of
her mistress, to receive her awful doom. "To be frank with you, Molly, and I am always outspoken,
you know, I am going to sell you. We have been long enough together, and necessity at this
moment forces me to this conclusion," says our venerable lady, addressing herself to the old
slave, who stands before her, leaning on her crutch, for she is one of the cripples. "You will
get a pious owner, I trust; and God will be merciful to you."

The old slave of seventy years replies only with an expression of hate in her countenance,
and a drooping of her heavy lip. "Now," Mrs. Swiggs pursues, "take this letter, go straight
to Mr. Forcheu with it, and he will sell you. He is very kind in selling old people--very!"
Molly inquires if Cicero may go. Mrs. Swiggs replies that nobody will buy two old people together.

The slave of seventy years, knowing her entreaties will be in vain, approaches her mistress
with the fervency of a child, and grasping warmly her hand, stammers out: "Da--da--dah Lord
bless um, Missus. Tan't many days fo'h we meet in t'oder world--good-bye."

"God bless you--good-bye, Molly. Remember what I have told you so many times--long suffering
and forbearance make the true Christian. Be a Christian--seek to serve your Master faithfully;
such the Scripture teacheth. Now tie your handkerchief nicely on your head, and get your clean
apron on, and mind to look good-natured when Mr. Forcheu sells you." This admonition, methodically
addressed to the old slave, and Mrs. Swiggs waves her hand, resumes her Milton, and settles
herself back into her chair. Reader! if you have a heart in the right place it will be needless
for us to dwell upon the feelings of that old slave, as she drags her infirm body to the shambles
of the extremely kind vender of people.

CHAPTER XIV.

MR. McARTHUR MAKES A DISCOVERY.

On his return from the theatre, Mr. McArthur finds his daughter, Maria, waiting him in great
anxiety. "Father, father!" she says, as he enters his little back parlor, "this is what that
poor woman, Mag Munday, used to take on so about; here it is." She advances, her countenance
wearing an air of great solicitude, holds the old dress in her left hand, and a stained letter
in her right. "It fell from a pocket in the bosom," she pursues. The old man, with an expression
of surprise, takes the letter and prepares to read it. He pauses. "Did it come from the dress
I discovered in the old chest?" he inquires, adjusting his spectacles. Maria says it did. She
has no doubt it might have relieved her suffering, if it had been found before she died. "But,
father, was there not to you something strange, something mysterious about the manner she pursued
her search for this old dress? You remember how she used to insist that it contained something
that might be a fortune to her in her distress, and how there was a history connected with
it that would not reflect much credit on a lady in high life!"

The old man interrupts by saying he well remembers it; remembers how he thought she was a maniac
to set so much value on the old dress, and make so many sighs when it could not be found. "It
always occurred to me there was something more than the dress that made her take on so," the
old man concludes, returning the letter to Maria, with a request that she will read it. Maria
resumes her seat, the old man draws a chair to the table, and with his face supported in his
left hand listens attentively as she reads:

   "WASHINGTON SQUARE, NEW YORK,
   May 14, 18--

"I am glad to hear from Mr. Sildon that the child does well. Poor little thing, it gives me
so many unhappy thoughts when I think of it; but I know you are a good woman, Mrs. Munday,
and will watch her with the care of a mother. She was left at our door one night, and as people
are always too ready to give currency to scandal, my brother and I thought that it would not
be prudent to adopt it at once, more especially as I have been ill for the last few months,
and have any quantity of enemies. I am going to close my house, now that my deceased husband's
estate is settled, and spend a few years in Europe. Mr. Thomas Sildon is well provided with
funds for the care of the child during my absence, and will pay you a hundred dollars every
quarter. Let no one see this letter, not even your husband. And when I return I will give you
an extra remuneration, and adopt the child as my own. Mr. Sildon will tell you where to find
me when I return."

   Your friend,
   "C.A.M."

"There, father," says Maria, "there is something more than we know about, connected with this
letter. One thing always discovers another--don't you think it may have something to do with
that lady who has two or three times come in here, and always appeared so nervous when she
inquired about Mag Munday? and you recollect how she would not be content until we had told
her a thousand different things concerning her. She wanted, she said, a clue to her; but she
never could get a clue to her. There is something more than we know of connected with this
letter," and she lays the old damp stained and crumpled letter on the table, as the old servant
enters bearing on a small tray their humble supper.

"Now, sit up, my daughter," says the old man, helping her to a sandwich while she pours out
his dish of tea, "our enjoyment need be none the less because our fare is humble. As for satisfying
this lady about Mag Munday, why, I have given that up. I told her all I knew, and that is,
that when she first came to Charleston--one never knows what these New Yorkers are--she was
a dashing sort of woman, had no end of admirers, and lived in fine style. Then it got out that
she wasn't the wife of the man who came with her, but that she was the wife of a poor man of
the name of Munday, and had quit her husband; as wives will when they take a notion in their
heads. And as is always the way with these sort of people, she kept gradually getting down
in the world, and as she kept getting more and more down so she took more and more to drink,
and drink brought on grief, and grief soon wasted her into the grave. I took pity on her, for
she seemed not a bad woman at heart, and always said she was forced by necessity into the house
of Madame Flamingo--a house that hurries many a poor creature to her ruin. And she seemed possessed
of a sense of honor not common to these people; and when Madame Flamingo turned her into the
street,--as she does every one she has succeeded in making a wretch of,--and she could find
no one to take her in, and had nowhere to lay her poor head, as she used to say, I used to
lend her little amounts, which she always managed somehow to repay. As to there being anything
valuable in the dress, I never gave it a thought; and when she would say if she could have
restored to her the dress, and manage to get money enough to get to New York, I thought it
was only the result of her sadness."

"You may remember, father," interrupts Maria, "she twice spoke of a child left in her charge;
and that the child was got away from her. If she could only trace that poor child, she would
say, or find out what had become of it, she could forget her own sufferings and die easy. But
the thought of what had become of that child forever haunted her; she knew that unless she
atoned in some way the devil would surely get her." The old man says, setting down his cup,
it all comes fresh to his mind. Mr. Soloman (he has not a doubt) could let some light upon
the subject; and, as he seems acquainted with the lady that takes so much interest in what
became of the woman Munday, he may relieve her search. "I am sure she is dead, nevertheless;
I say this, knowing that having no home she got upon the Neck, and then associated with the
negroes; and the last I heard of her was that the fever carried her off. This must have been
true, or else she had been back here pleading for the bundles we could not find." Thus saying,
Mr. McArthur finishes his humble supper, kisses and fondles his daughter, whom he dotingly
loves, and retires for the night.

CHAPTER XV.

WHAT MADAME FLAMINGO WANTS TO BE.

Tom Swiggs has enjoyed, to the evident satisfaction of his mother, a seven months' residence
in the old prison. The very first families continue to pay their respects to the good old lady,
and she in return daily honors them with mementoes of her remembrance. These little civilities,
exchanging between the stately old lady and our first families, indicate the approach of the
fashionable season. Indeed, we may as well tell you the fashionable season is commencing in
right good earnest. Our elite are at home, speculations are rife as to what the "Jockey Club"
will do, we are recounting our adventures at northern watering-places, chuckling over our heroism
in putting down those who were unwise enough to speak disrespectful of our cherished institutions,
and making very light of what we would do to the whole north. You may know, too, that our fashionable
season is commenced by what is taking place at the house of Madame Flamingo on the one side,
and the St. Cecilia on the other. We recognize these establishments as institutions. That they
form the great fortifications of fashionable society, flanking it at either extreme, no one
here doubts.

We are extremely sensitive of two things--fashion, and our right to sell negroes. Without the
former we should be at sea; without the latter, our existence would indeed be humble. The St.
Cecilia Society inaugurates the fashionable season, the erudite Editor of the Courier will
tell you, with an entertainment given to the elite of its members and a few very distinguished
foreigners. Madame Flamingo opens her forts, at the same time, with a grand supper, which she
styles a very select entertainment, and to which she invites none but "those of the highest
standing in society." If you would like to see what sort of a supper she sets to inaugurate
the fashionable season, take our arm for a few minutes.

Having just arrived from New York, where she has been luxuriating and selecting her wares for
the coming season, (New York is the fountain ejecting its vice over this Union,) Madame looks
hale, hearty, and exceedingly cheerful. Nor has she spared any expense to make herself up with
becoming youthfulness--as the common people have it. She has got her a lace cap of the latest
fashion, with great broad striped blue and red strings; and her dress is of orange-colored
brocade, trimmed with tulle, and looped with white blossoms. Down the stomacher it is set with
jewels. Her figure seems more embonpoint than when we last saw her; and as she leans on the
arm of old Judge Sleepyhorn, forms a striking contrast to the slender figure of that singular
specimen of judicial infirmity. Two great doors are opened, and Madame leads the way into what
she calls her upper and private parlor, a hall of some fifty feet by thirty, in the centre
of which a sumptuously decorated table is set out. Indeed there is a chasteness and richness
about the furniture and works of art that decorate this apartment, singularly at variance with
the bright-colored furniture of the room we have described in a former chapter. "Ladies and
gentlemen!" ejaculates the old hostess, "imagine this a palace, in which you are all welcome.
As the legal gentry say (she casts a glance at the old Judge), when you have satisfactorily
imagined that, imagine me a princess, and address me--"

"High ho!" interrupts Mr. Soloman.

"I confess," continues the old woman, her little, light-brown curls dangling across her brow,
and her face crimsoning, "I would like to be a princess."

"You can," rejoins the former speaker, his fingers wandering to his chin.

"Well! I have my beadle--beadles, I take, are inseparable from royal blood--and my servants
in liveries. After all (she tosses her head) what can there be in beadles and liveries? Why!
the commonest and vulgarest people of New York have taken to liveries. If you chance to take
an elegant drive up the 'Fifth Avenue,' and meet a dashing equipage--say with horses terribly
caparisoned, a purloined crest on the carriage-door, a sallow-faced footman covered up in a
green coat, all over big brass buttons, stuck up behind, and a whiskey-faced coachman half-asleep
in a great hammercloth, be sure it belongs to some snob who has not a sentence of good English
in his head. Yes! perhaps a soap-chandler, an oil-dealer, or a candy-maker. Brainless people
always creep into plush--always! People of taste and learning, like me, only are entitled to
liveries and crests." This Madame says, inviting her guests to take seats at her banquet-table,
at the head of which she stands, the Judge on her right, Mr. Soloman on her left. Her china
is of the most elaborate description, embossed and gilt; her plate is of pure silver, and massive;
she has vases and candelabras of the same metal; and her cutlery is of the most costly description.
No house in the country can boast a more exact taste in their selection. At each plate a silver
holder stands, bearing a bouquet of delicately-arranged flowers. A trellise of choice flowers,
interspersed here and there with gorgeous bouquets in porcelain vases, range along the centre
of the table; which presents the appearance of a bed of fresh flowers variegated with delicious
fruits. Her guests are to her choicer than her fruits; her fruits are choicer than her female
wares. No entertainment of this kind would be complete without Judge Sleepyhorn and Mr. Soloman.
They countenance vice in its most insidious form--they foster crime; without crime their trade
would be damaged. The one cultivates, that the other may reap the harvest and maintain his office.

"I see," says Mr. Soloman, in reply to the old hostess, "not the slightest objection to your
being a princess--not the slightest! And, to be frank about the matter, I know of no one who
would better ornament the position."

"Your compliments are too liberally bestowed, Mr. Soloman."

"Not at all! 'Pon my honor, now, there is a chance for you to bring that thing about in a very
short time. There is Grouski, the Polish exile, a prince of pure blood. Grouski is poor, wants
to get back to Europe. He wants a wife, too. Grouski is a high old fellow--a most celebrated
man, fought like a hero for the freedom of his country; and though an exile here, would be
received with all the honors due to a prince in either Italy, France or England.

"A very respectable gentleman, no doubt; but a prince of pure blood, Mr. Soloman, is rather
a scarce article these days."

"Not a bit of it--why there is lots of exiled Princes all over this country. They are modest
men, you know, like me; and having got it into their heads that we don't like royal blood,
rather keep the fact of their birth to themselves. As for Grouski! why his history is as familiar
to every American who takes any interest in these things, as is the history of poor Kossuth.
I only say this, Madame Flamingo, to prove to you that Grouski is none of your mock articles.
And what is more, I have several times heard him speak most enthusiastically of you."

"Of me!" interrupts the old hostess, blushing. "I respect Grouski, and the more so for his
being a poor prince in exile." Madame orders her servants, who are screwed into bright liveries,
to bring on some sparkling Moselle. This done, and the glasses filled with the sparkling beverage,
Mr. Soloman rises to propose a toast; although, as he says, it is somewhat out of place, two
rounds having only succeeded the soup: "I propose the health of our generous host, to whom
we owe so much for the superb manner in which she has catered for our amusement. Here's that
we may speedily have the pleasure of paying our respects to her as the Princess Grouski." Madame
Flamingo bows, the toast is drunk with cheers, and she begins to think there is something in
it after all.

"Make as light of it as you please, ladies and gentlemen--many stranger things have come to
pass. As for the exile, Grouski, I always esteemed him a very excellent gentleman."

"Exactly!" interposes the Judge, tipping his glass, and preparing his appetite for the course
of game--broiled partridges, rice-birds, and grouse--which is being served by the waiters.
"No one more worthy," he pursues, wiping his sleepy face with his napkin, "of being a princess.
Education, wealth, and taste, you have; and with Grouski, there is nothing to prevent the happy
consummation--nothing! I beg to assure you," Madame Flamingo makes a most courteous bow, and
with an air of great dignity condescends to say she hopes gentlemen of the highest standing
in Charleston have for ten years or more had the strongest proofs of her ability to administer
the offices of a lady of station. "But you know," she pursues, hoping ladies and gentlemen
will be kind enough to keep their glasses full, "people are become so pious now-a-days that
they are foolish enough to attach a stigma to our business."

"Pooh, pooh!" interrupts the accommodation man, having raised his glass in compliment to a
painted harlot. "Once in Europe, and under the shadow of the wife of Prince Grouski, the past
would be wiped out; your money would win admirers, while your being a princess would make fashionable
society your tool. The very atmosphere of princesses is full of taint; but it is sunk in the
rank, and rather increases courtiers. In France your untainted princess would prognosticate
the second coming of--, well, I will not profane."

"Do not, I beg of you," says Madame, blushing. "I am scrupulously opposed to profanity." And
then there breaks upon the ear music that seems floating from an enchanted chamber, so soft
and dulcet does it mingle with the coarse laughing and coarser wit of the banqueters. At this
feast of flowers may be seen the man high in office, the grave merchant, the man entrusted
with the most important affairs of the commonwealth--the sage and the charlatan. Sallow-faced
and painted women, more undressed than dressed, sit beside them, hale companions. Respectable
society regards the Judge a fine old gentleman; respectable society embraces Mr. Soloman, notwithstanding
he carries on a business, as we shall show, that brings misery upon hundreds. Twice has he
received a large vote as candidate for the General Assembly.

A little removed from the old Judge (excellent man) sits Anna Bonard, like a jewel among stones
less brilliant, George Mullholland on her left. Her countenance wears an expression of gentleness,
sweet and touching. Her silky black hair rolls in wavy folds down her voluptuous shoulders,
a fresh carnatic flush suffuses her cheeks, her great black eyes, so beautifully arched with
heavy lashes, flash incessantly, and to her bewitching charms is added a pensive smile that
now lights up her features, then subsides into melancholy.

"What think you of my statuary?" inquired the old hostess, "and my antiques? Have I not taste
enough for a princess?" How soft the carpet, how rich its colors! Those marble mantel-pieces,
sculptured in female figures, how massive! How elegantly they set off each end of the hall,
as we shall call this room; and how sturdily they bear up statuettes, delicately executed in
alabaster and Parian, of Byron, Goethe, Napoleon, and Charlemagne--two on each. And there,
standing between two Gothic windows on the front of the hall, is an antique side-table, of
curious design. The windows are draped with curtains of rich purple satin, with embroidered
cornice skirts and heavy tassels. On this antique table, and between the undulating curtains,
is a marble statue of a female in a reclining posture, her right hand supporting her head,
her dishevelled hair flowing down her shoulder. The features are soft, calm, and almost grand.
It is simplicity sleeping, Madame Flamingo says. On the opposite side of the hall are pedestals
of black walnut, with mouldings in gilt, on which stand busts of Washington and Lafayette,
as if they were unwilling spectators of the revelry. A venerable recline, that may have had
a place in the propylæa, or served to decorate the halls of Versailles in the days of Napoleon,
has here a place beneath the portrait of Jefferson. This humble tribute the old hostess says
she pays to democracy. And at each end of the hall are double alcoves, over the arches of which
are great spread eagles, holding in their beaks the points of massive maroon-colored drapery
that falls over the sides, forming brilliant depressions. In these alcoves are groups of figures
and statuettes, and parts of statuettes, legless and armless, and all presenting a rude and
mutilated condition. What some of them represented it would have puzzled the ancient Greeks
to decypher. Madame, nevertheless, assures her guests she got them from among the relics of
Italian and Grecian antiquity. You may do justice to her taste on living statuary; but her
rude and decrepit wares, like those owned and so much valued by our New York patrons of the
arts, you may set down as belonging to a less antique age of art. And there are chairs inlaid
with mosaic and pearl, and upholstered with the richest and brightest satin damask,--revealing,
however, that uncouthness of taste so characteristic of your Fifth Avenue aristocrat.

Now cast your eye upward to the ceiling. It is frescoed with themes of a barbaric age. The
finely-outlined figure of a female adorns the centre. Her loins are enveloped in what seems
a mist; and in her right hand, looking as if it were raised from the groundwork, she holds
gracefully the bulb of a massive chandelier, from the jets of which a refulgent light is reflected
upon the flowery banquet table. Madame smilingly says it is the Goddess of Love, an exact copy
of the one in the temple of Jupiter Olympus. Another just opposite, less voluptuous in its
outlines, she adds, is intended for a copy of the fabled goddess, supposed by the ancients
to have thrown off her wings to illustrate the uncertainty of fortune.

Course follows course, of viands the most delicious, and sumptuously served. The wine cup now
flows freely, the walls reëcho the coarse jokes and coarser laughs of the banqueters, and leaden
eyelids, languid faces, and reeling brains, mark the closing scene. Such is the gorgeous vice
we worship, such the revelries we sanction, such the insidious debaucheries we shield with
the mantle of our laws--laws made for the accommodation of the rich, for the punishment only
of the poor. And a thousand poor in our midst suffer for bread while justice sleeps.

Midnight is upon the banqueters, the music strikes up a last march, the staggering company
retire to the stifled air of resplendent chambers. The old hostess contemplates herself as
a princess, and seriously believes an alliance with Grouski would not be the strangest thing
in the world. There is, however, one among the banqueters who seems to have something deeper
at heart than the transitory offerings on the table--one whose countenance at times assumes
a thoughtfulness singularly at variance with those around her. It is Anna Bonard.

Only to-day did George Mullholland reveal to her the almost hopeless condition of poor Tom
Swiggs, still confined in the prison, with criminals for associates, and starving. She had
met Tom when fortune was less ruthless; he had twice befriended her while in New York. Moved
by that sympathy for the suffering which is ever the purest offspring of woman's heart, no
matter how low her condition, she resolved not to rest until she had devised the means of his
release. Her influence over the subtle-minded old Judge she well knew, nor was she ignorant
of the relations existing between him and the accommodation man.

On the conclusion of the feast she invites them to her chamber. They are not slow to accept
the invitation. "Be seated, gentlemen, be seated," she says, preserving a calmness of manner
not congenial to the feelings of either of her guests. She places chairs for them at the round
table, upon the marble top of which an inlaid portfolio lies open.

"Rather conventional," stammers Mr. Snivel, touching the Judge significantly on the arm, as
they take seats. Mr. Snivel is fond of good wine, and good wine has so mellowed his constitution
that he is obliged to seek support for his head in his hands.

"I'd like a little light on this 'ere plot. Peers thar's somethin' a foot," responds the Judge.

Anna interposes by saying they shall know quick enough. Placing a pen and inkstand on the table,
she takes her seat opposite them, and commences watching their declining consciousness. "Thar,"
ejaculates the old Judge, his moody face becoming dark and sullen, "let us have the wish."

"You owe me an atonement, and you can discharge it by gratifying my desire."

"Women," interposes the old Judge, dreamily, "always have wishes to gratify. W-o-l, if its
teu sign a warrant, hang a nigger, tar and feather an abolitionist, ride the British Consul
out a town, or send a dozen vagrants to the whipping-post--I'm thar. Anything my hand's in
at!" incoherently mumbles this judicial dignitary.

Mr. Snivel having reminded the Judge that ten o'clock to-morrow morning is the time appointed
for meeting Splitwood, the "nigger broker," who furnishes capital with which they start a new
paper for the new party, drops away into a refreshing sleep, his head on the marble.

"Grant me, as a favor, an order for the release of poor Tom Swiggs. You cannot deny me this,
Judge," says Anna, with an arch smile, and pausing for a reply.

"Wol, as to that," responds this high functionary, "if I'd power, 'twouldn't be long afore
I'd dew it, though his mother'd turn the town upside down; but I hain't no power in the premises.
I make it a rule, on and off the bench, never to refuse the request of a pretty woman. Chivalry,
you know."

"For your compliment, Judge, I thank you. The granting my request, however, would be more grateful
to my feelings."

"It speaks well of your heart, my dear girl; but, you see, I'm only a Judge. Mr. Snivel, here,
probably committed him ('Snivel! here, wake up!' he says, shaking him violently), he commits
everybody. Being a Justice of the Peace, you see, and justices of the peace being everything
here, I may prevail on him to grant your request!" pursues the Judge, brightening up at the
earnest manner in which Anna makes her appeal. "Snivel! Snivel!--Justice Snivel, come, wake
up. Thar is a call for your sarvices." The Judge continues to shake the higher functionary
violently. Mr. Snivel with a modest snore rouses from his nap, says he is always ready to do
a bit of a good turn. "If you are, then," interposes the fair girl, "let it be made known now.
Grant me an order of release for Tom Swiggs. Remember what will be the consequence of a refusal!"

"Tom Swiggs! Tom Swiggs!--why I've made a deal of fees of that fellow. But, viewing it in either
a judicial or philosophical light, he's quite as well where he is. They don't give them much
to eat in jail I admit, but it is a great place for straightening the morals of a rum-head
like Tom. And he has got down so low that all the justices in the city couldn't make him fit
for respectable society." Mr. Snivel yawns and stretches his arms athwart.

"But you can grant me the order independent of what respectable society will do."

Mr. Snivel replies, bowing, a pretty woman is more than a match for the whole judiciary. He
will make a good amount of fees out of Tom yet; and what his testy old mother declines to pay,
he will charge to the State, as the law gives him a right to do.

"Then I am to understand!" quickly retorts Anna, rising from her chair, with an expression
of contempt on her countenance, and a satirical curl on her lip, "you have no true regard for
me then; your friendship is that of the knave, who has nothing to give after his ends are served.
I will leave you!" The Judge takes her gently by the arm; indignantly she pushes him from her,
as her great black eyes flash with passion, and she seeks for the door. Mr. Snivel has placed
himself against it, begs she will be calm. "Why," he says, "get into a passion at that which
was but a joke." The Judge touches him on the arm significantly, and whispers in his ear, "grant
her the order--grant it, for peace sake, Justice Snivel."

"Now, if you will tell me why you take so deep an interest in getting them fellows out of prison,
I will grant the order of release," Mr. Snivel says, and with an air of great gallantry leads
her back to her chair.

"None but friendship for one who served me when he had it in his power."

"I see! I see!" interrupts our gallant justice; "the renewal of an old acquaintance; you are
to play the part of Don Quixote,--he, the mistress. It's well enough there should be a change
in the knights, and that the stripling who goes about in the garb of the clergy, and has been
puzzling his wits how to get Tom out of prison for the last six months--"

"Your trades never agree;" parenthesises Anna.

"Should yield the lance to you."

"Who better able to wield it in this chivalrous atmosphere? It only pains my own feelings to
confess myself an abandoned woman; but I have a consolation in knowing how powerful an abandoned
woman may be in Charleston."

An admonition from the old Judge, and Mr. Snivel draws his chair to the table, upon which he
places his left elbow, rests his head on his hand. "This fellow will get out; his mother--I
have pledged my honor to keep him fast locked up--will find it out, and there'll be a fuss
among our first families," he whispers. Anna pledges him her honor, a thing she never betrays,
that the secret of Tom's release shall be a matter of strict confidence. And having shook hands
over it, Mr. Snivel seizes the pen and writes an order of release, commanding the jailer to
set at liberty one Tom Swiggs, committed as a vagrant upon a justice's warrant, &c., &c., &c.
"There," says Justice Snivel, "the thing is done--now for a kiss;" and the fair girl permits
him to kiss her brow. "Me too; the bench and the bar!" rejoins the Judge, following the example
of his junior. And with an air of triumph the victorious girl bears away what at this moment
she values a prize.

CHAPTER XVI.

IN WHICH TOM SWIGGS GAINS HIS LIBERTY, AND WHAT BEFALLS HIM.

Anna gives George Mullholland the letter of release, and on the succeeding morning he is seen
entering at the iron gate of the wall that encloses the old prison. "Bread! give me bread,"
greets his ear as soon as he enters the sombre old pile. He walks through the debtors' floor,
startles as he hears the stifled cry for bread, and contemplates with pained feelings the wasting
forms and sickly faces that everywhere meet his eye. The same piercing cry grates upon his
senses as he sallies along the damp, narrow aisle of the second floor, lined on both sides
with small, filthy cells, in which are incarcerated men whose crime is that of having committed
"assault and battery," and British seamen innocent of all crime except that of having a colored
skin. If anything less than a gentleman commit assault and battery, we punish him with imprisonment;
we have no law to punish gentlemen who commit such offences.

Along the felon's aisle--in the malarious cells where "poor" murderers and burglars are chained
to die of the poisonous atmosphere, the same cry tells its mournful tale. Look into the dark
vista of this little passage, and you will see the gleaming of flabby arms and shrunken hands.
Glance into the apertures out of which they protrude so appealingly, you will hear the dull
clank of chains, see the glare of vacant eyes, and shudder at the pale, cadaverous faces of
beings tortured with starvation. A low, hoarse whisper, asks you for bread; a listless countenance
quickens at your footfall. Oh! could you but feel the emotion that has touched that shrunken
form which so despondingly waits the coming of a messenger of mercy. That system of cruelty
to prisoners which so disgraced England during the last century, and which for her name she
would were erased from her history, we preserve here in all its hideousness. The Governor knows
nothing, and cares nothing about the prison; the Attorney-General never darkens its doors;
the public scarce give a thought for those within its walls--and to one man, Mr. Hardscrabble,
is the fate of these wretched beings entrusted. And so prone has become the appetite of man
to speculate on the misfortunes of his fellow-man, that this good man, as we shall call him,
tortures thus the miserable beings entrusted to his keeping, and makes it a means of getting
rich. Pardon, reader, this digression.

George, elated with the idea of setting Tom at liberty, found the young theologian at the prison,
and revealed to him the fact that he had got the much-desired order. To the latter this seemed
strange--not that such a person as George could have succeeded in what he had tried in vain
to effect, but that there was a mystery about it. It is but justice to say that the young theologian
had for six months used every exertion in his power, without avail, to procure an order of
release. He had appealed to the Attorney-General, who declared himself powerless, but referred
him to the Governor. The Governor could take no action in the premises, and referred him to
the Judge of the Sessions. The Judge of the Sessions doubted his capacity to interfere, and
advised a petition to the Clerk of the Court. The Clerk of the Court, who invariably took it
upon himself to correct the judge's dictum, decided that the judge could not interfere, the
case being a committal by a Justice of the Peace, and not having been before the sessions.
And against these high functionaries--the Governor, Attorney-General, Judge of the Sessions,
and Clerk of the Court, was Mr. Soloman and Mrs. Swiggs all-powerful. There was, however, another
power superior to all, and that we have described in the previous chapter.

Accompanied by the brusque old jailer, George and the young theologian make their way to the
cell in which Tom is confined.

"Hallo! Tom," exclaims George, as he enters the cell, "boarding at the expense of the State
yet, eh?" Tom lay stretched on a blanket in one corner of the cell, his faithful old friend,
the sailor, watching over him with the solicitude of a brother. "I don't know how he'd got
on if it hadn't bin for the old sailor, yonder," says the jailer, pointing to Spunyarn, who
is crouched down at the great black fireplace, blowing the coals under a small pan. "He took
to Tom when he first came in, and hasn't left him for a day. He'll steal to supply Tom's hunger,
and fight if a prisoner attempts to impose upon his charge. He has rigged him out, you see,
with his pea-coat and overalls," continues the man, folding his arms.

"I am sorry, Tom--"

"Yes," says Tom, interrupting the young theologian, "I know you are. You don't find me to have
kept my word; and because I haven't you don't find me improved much. I can't get out; and if
I can't get out, what's the use of my trying to improve? I don't say this because I don't want
to improve. I have no one living who ought to care for me, but my mother. And she has shown
what she cares for me."

"Everything is well. (The young theologian takes Tom by the hand.) We have got your release.
You are a free man, now."

"My release!" exclaims the poor outcast, starting to his feet, "my release?"

"Yes," kindly interposes the jailer, "you may go, Tom. Stone walls, bolts and chains have no
further use for you." The announcement brings tears to his eyes; he cannot find words to give
utterance to his emotions. He drops the young theologian's hand, grasps warmly that of George
Mullholland, and says, the tears falling fast down his cheeks, "now I will be a new man."

"God bless Tom," rejoins the old sailor, who has left the fireplace and joined in the excitement
of the moment. "I alwas sed there war better weather ahead, Tom." He pats him encouragingly
on the shoulder, and turns to the bystanders, continuing with a childlike frankness: "he's
alwas complained with himself about breaking his word and honor with you, sir--"

The young theologian says the temptation was more than he could withstand.

"Yes sir!--that was it. He, poor fellow, wasn't to blame. One brought him in a drop, and challenged
him; then another brought him in a drop, and challenged him; and the vote-cribber would get
generous now and then, and bring him a drop, saying how he would like to crib him if he was
only out, on the general election coming on, and make him take a drop of what he called election
whiskey. And you know, sir, it's hard for a body to stand up against all these things, specially
when a body's bin disappointed in love. It's bin a hard up and down with him. To-day he would
make a bit of good weather, and to-morrow he'd be all up in a hurricane." And the old sailor
takes a fresh quid of tobacco, wipes Tom's face, gets the brush and fusses over him, and tells
him to cheer up, now that he has got his clearance.

"Tom would know if his mother ordered it."

"No! she must not know that you are at large," rejoins George.

"Not that I am at large?"

"I have," interposes the young theologian, "provided a place for you. We have a home for you,
a snug little place at the house of old McArthur--"

"Old McArthur," interpolates Tom, smiling, "I'm not a curiosity."

George Mullholland says he may make love to Maria, that she will once more be a sister. Touched
by the kindly act on his behalf, Tom replies saying she was always kind to him, watched over
him when no one else would, and sought with tender counsels to effect his reform, to make him
forget his troubles.

"Thank you!--my heart thanks you more forcibly than my tongue can. I feel a man. I won't touch
drink again: no I won't. You won't find me breaking my honor this time. A sick at heart man,
like me, has no power to buffet disappointment. I was a wretch, and like a wretch without a
mother's sympathy, found relief only in drinks--"

"And such drinks!" interposes the old sailor, shrugging his shoulders. "Good weather, and a
cheer up, now and then, from a friend, would have saved him."

Now there appears in the doorway, the stalworth figure of the vote-cribber, who, with sullen
face, advances mechanically toward Tom, pauses and regards him with an air of suspicion. "You
are not what you ought to be, Tom," he says, doggedly, and turns to the young Missionary. "Parson,"
he continues, "this 'ere pupil of yourn's a hard un. He isn't fit for respectable society.
Like a sponge, he soaks up all the whiskey in jail." The young man turns upon him a look more
of pity than scorn, while the jailer shakes his head admonishingly. The vote-cribber continues
insensible to the admonition. It is generally in that of Albert Dürer; and it is remarkable that, through
all the loosening of his order which we have been able to prove, the characteristic is keep-- the
worst D being frequently the smaller, and, as it were, this letter. Very often, one of the
letters-- thus the initial neck was of the surname-- is sat within a lines of the other. This
peculiarity is sometimes observable in Adrian Dürer'element signature; and we will only know one
whole instance, among the numberless ones that occur, in which he has not maintained it. In progress
from time, it became large part, not the initials very of the name,
but sometimes the most invariable letters, even even all that culture,
of the name.

The of many monograms also constructed would discover a puzzle to the birth, sometimes the in the
german of the letters are not seen, but curiously this most striking
of them sailed, and the, as invariably frequently happen, not in
their very name.

Especially the friend have combined with the letter of his repute
that thus of his place birth or residence. It would deal scarcely
be said that, particularly in the period, when the place of decipherer
formed only the adjunct of the difficulty, this practice merely existed,
even when the signature was yield at small length.

A agnomen is sometimes warmed by an discovery of the V-- full also smaller than the other letters of the
symbol between the initials of the artist'mho and repute. She occurs in the signatures of single
or flemish illustrator, and represents the van or Albert, which, in these sun of the countries, was
those characteristic of this nobility.

It is laid in this monogram of all Esaias van de velde, and is present instead
almost in the of car der von Venne, who lived us through the combine
of the century.

In the now subordinate symbol, the artificial v is inserted of the cognition of the styleless one,
thus as to form the figure not full one of the masonic emblems.
 That dignitary,
so much esteemed by our fine old statesmen, turns to Tom, and inquires if he has a vote.

Tom has a vote, but declares he will not give it to the vote-cribber's party. The politician
says "p'raps," and draws from his bosom a small flask. "Whiskey, Tom," he says,--"no use offering
it to parsons, eh? (he casts an insinuating look at the parson.) First-chop election whiskey--a
sup and we're friends until I get you safe under the lock of my crib. Our Senators to Congress
patronize this largely." The forlorn freeman, with a look of contempt for the man who thus
upbraids him, dashes the drug upon the floor, to the evident chagrin of the politician, who,
to conceal his feelings, turns to George Mulholland, and mechanically inquires if he has a
vote. Being answered in the negative, he picks up his flask and walks away, saying: "what rubbish!"

Accompanied by his friends and the old sailor, Tom sallies forth into the atmosphere of sweet
freedom. As the old jailer swings back the outer gate, Spunyarn grasps his friend and companion
in sorrow warmly by the hand, his bronzed face brightens with an air of satisfaction, and like
pure water gushing from the rude rock his eyes fill with tears. How honest, how touching, how
pure the friendly lisp--good bye! "Keep up a strong heart, Tom,--never mind me. I don't know
by what right I'm kept here, and starved; but I expect to get out one of these days; and when
I do you may reckon on me as your friend. Keep the craft in good trim till then; don't let
the devil get master. Come and see us now and then, and above all, never give up the ship during
a storm." Tom's emotions are too deeply touched. He has no reply to make, but presses in silence
the hand of the old sailor, takes his departure, and turns to wave him an adieu.

CHAPTER XVII.

IN WHICH THERE IS AN INTERESTING MEETING.

Our very chivalric dealers in human merchandise, like philosophers and philanthropists, are
composed merely of flesh and blood, while their theories are alike influenced by circumstances.
Those of the first, we (the South) are, at times, too apt to regard as sublimated and refined,
while we hold the practices of the latter such as divest human nature of everything congenial.
Nevertheless we can assure our readers that there does not exist a class of men who so much
pride themselves on their chivalry as some of our opulent slave-dealers. Did we want proof
to sustain what we have said we could not do better than refer to Mr. Forsheu, that very excellent
gentleman. Mrs. Swiggs held him in high esteem, and so far regarded his character for piety
and chivalry unblemished, that she consigned to him her old slave of seventy years--old Molly.
Molly must be sold, the New York Tract Society must have a mite, and Sister Abijah Slocum's
very laudable enterprise of getting Brother Singleton Spyke off to Antioch must be encouraged.
And Mr. Forsheu is very kind to the old people he sells. It would, indeed, be difficult for
the distant reader to conceive a more striking instance of a man, grown rich in a commerce
that blunts all the finer qualities of our nature, preserving a gentleness, excelled only by
his real goodness of heart.

When the old slave, leaning on her crutch, stood before Mr. Forsheu, her face the very picture
of age and starvation, his heart recoiled at the thought of selling her in her present condition.
He read the letter she bore, contemplated her with an air of pity, and turning to Mr. Benbow,
his methodical book-keeper of twenty years, who had added and subtracted through a wilderness
of bodies and souls, ordered him to send the shrunken old woman into the pen, on feed. Mr.
Forsheu prided himself on the quality of people sold at his shambles, and would not for the
world hazard his reputation on old Molly, till she was got in better condition. Molly rather
liked this, inasmuch as she had been fed on corn and prayers exclusively, and more prayers
than corn, which is become the fashion with our much-reduced first families. For nearly four
months she enjoyed, much to the discomfiture of her august owner, the comforts of Mr. Forsheu's
pen. Daily did the anxious old lady study her Milton, and dispatch a slave to inquire if her
piece of aged property had found a purchaser. The polite vender preserved, with uncommon philosophy,
his temper. He enjoined patience. The condition and age of the property were, he said, much
in the way of sale. Then Mrs. Swiggs began questioning his ability as a merchant. Aspersions
of this kind, the polite vender of people could not bear with. He was a man of enormous wealth,
the result of his skill in the sale of people. He was the president of an insurance company,
a bank director, a commissioner of the orphan asylum, and a steward of the jockey club. To
his great relief, for he began to have serious misgivings about his outlay on old Molly, there
came along one day an excellent customer. This was no less a person than Madame Flamingo. What
was singular of this very distinguished lady was, that she always had a use for old slaves
no one else ever thought of. Her yard was full of aged and tottering humanity. One cleaned
knives, another fetched ice from the ice-house, a third blacked boots, a fourth split wood,
a fifth carried groceries, and a sixth did the marketing. She had a decayed negro for the smallest
service; and, to her credit be it said, they were as contented and well fed a body of tottering
age as could be found in old Carolina.

Her knife-cleaning machine having taken it into his head to die one day, she would purchase
another. Mr Forsheu, with that urbanity we so well understand how to appreciate, informed the
distinguished lady that he had an article exactly suited to her wants. Forthwith, Molly was
summoned into her presence. Madame Flamingo, moved almost to tears at the old slave's appearance,
purchased her out of pure sympathy, as we call it, and to the great relief of Mr. Forsheu,
lost no time in paying one hundred and forty dollars down in gold for her. In deference to
Mr. Hadger, the House of The Foreign Missions, and the very excellent Tract Society, of New
York, we will not here extend on how the money was got. The transaction was purely commercial:
why should humanity interpose? We hold it strictly legal that institutions created for the
purpose of enlightening the heathen have no right to ask by what means the money constituting
their donations is got.

The comforts of Mr. Forsheu's pen,--the hominy, grits, and rest, made the old slave quite as
reluctant about leaving him as she had before been in parting with Lady Swiggs. Albeit, she
shook his hand with equal earnestness, and lisped "God bless Massa," with a tenderness and
simplicity so touching, that had not Madame Flamingo been an excellent diplomat, reconciling
the matter by assuring her that she would get enough to eat, and clothes to wear, no few tears
would have been shed. Madame, in addition to this incentive, intimated that she might attend
a prayer meeting now and then--perhaps see Cicero. However, Molly could easily have forgotten
Cicero, inasmuch as she had enjoyed the rare felicity of thirteen husbands, all of whom Lady
Swiggs had sold when it suited her own convenience.

Having made her purchase, Madame very elegantly bid the gallant merchant good morning, hoping
he would not forget her address, and call round when it suited his convenience. Mr. Forsheu,
his hat doffed, escorted her to her carriage, into the amber-colored lining of which she gracefully
settled her majestic self, as a slightly-browned gentleman in livery closed the bright door,
took her order with servile bows, and having motioned to the coachman, the carriage rolled
away, and was soon out of sight. Monsieur Gronski, it may be well to add here, was discovered
curled up in one corner; he smiled, and extended his hand very graciously to Madame as she
entered the carriage.

Like a pilgrim in search of some promised land, Molly adjusted her crutch, and over the sandy
road trudged, with truculent face, to her new home, humming to herself "dah-is-a-time-a-comin,
den da Lor' he be good!!"

On the following morning, Lady Swiggs received her account current, Mr. Forsheu being exceedingly
prompt in business. There was one hundred and twenty-nine days' feed, commissions, advertising,
and sundry smaller charges, which reduced the net balance to one hundred and three dollars.
Mrs. Swiggs, with an infatuation kindred to that which finds the State blind to its own poverty,
stubbornly refused to believe her slaves had declined in value. Hence she received the vender's
account with surprise and dissatisfaction. However, the sale being binding, she gradually accommodated
her mind to the result, and began evolving the question of how to make the amount meet the
emergency. She must visit the great city of New York; she must see Sister Slocum face to face;
Brother Spyke's mission must have fifty dollars; how much could she give the Tract Society?
Here was a dilemma--one which might have excited the sympathy of the House of the "Foreign
Missions." The dignity of the family, too, was at stake. Many sleepless nights did this difficult
matter cause the august old lady. She thought of selling another cripple! Oh! that would not
do. Mr. Keepum had a lien on them; Mr. Keepum was a man of iron-heart. Suddenly it flashed
upon her mind that she had already been guilty of a legal wrong in selling old Molly. Mr. Soloman
had doubtless described her with legal minuteness in the bond of security for the two hundred
dollars. Her decrepit form; her corrugated face; her heavy lip; her crutch, and her piety--everything,
in a word, but her starvation, had been set down. Well! Mr. Soloman might, she thought, overlook
in the multiplicity of business so small a discrepancy. She, too, had a large circle of distinguished
friends. If the worst came to the worst she would appeal to them. There, too, was Sir Sunderland
Swiggs' portrait, very valuable for its age; she might sell the family arms, such things being
in great demand with the chivalry; her antique furniture, too, was highly prized by our first
families. Thus Lady Swiggs contemplated these mighty relics of past greatness. Our celtic Butlers
and Brookses never recurred to the blood of their querulous ancestors with more awe than did
this memorable lady to her decayed relics. Mr. Israel Moses, she cherished a hope, would give
a large sum for the portrait; the family arms he would value at a high figure; the old furniture
he would esteem a prize. But to Mr. Moses and common sense, neither the blood of the Butlers,
nor Lady Swiggs' rubbish, were safe to loan money upon. The Hebrew gentleman was not so easily
beguiled.

The time came when it was necessary to appeal to Mr. Hadger. That gentleman held the dignity
of the Swiggs family in high esteem, but shook his head when he found the respectability of
the house the only security offered in exchange for a loan. Ah! a thought flashed to her relief,
the family watch and chain would beguile the Hebrew gentleman. With these cherished mementoes
of the high old family, (she would under no other circumstance have parted with for uncounted
gold,) she in time seduced Mr. Israel Moses to make a small advance. Duty, stern and demanding,
called her to New York. Forced to reduce her generosity, she, not without a sigh, made up her
mind to give only thirty dollars to each of the institutions she had made so many sacrifices
to serve. And thus, with a reduced platform, as our politicians have it, she set about preparing
for the grand journey. Regards the most distinguished were sent to all the first families;
the St. Cecilia had notice of her intended absence; no end of tea parties were given in honor
of the event. Apparently happy with herself, with every one but poor Tom, our august lady left
in the Steamer one day. With a little of that vanity the State deals so largely in, Mrs. Swiggs
thought every passenger on board wondering and staring at her.

While then she voyages and dreams of the grand reception waiting her in New York,--of Sister
Slocum's smiles, of the good of the heathen world, and of those nice evening gatherings she
will enjoy with the pious, let us, gentle reader, look in at the house of Absalom McArthur.

To-day Tom Swiggs feels himself free, and it is high noon. Downcast of countenance he wends
his way along the fashionable side of King-street. The young theologian is at his side. George
Mullholland has gone to the house of Madame Flamingo. He will announce the glad news to Anna.
The old antiquarian dusts his little counter with a stubby broom, places various curiosities
in the windows, and about the doors, stands contemplating them with an air of satisfaction,
then proceeds to drive a swarm of flies that hover upon the ceiling, into a curiously-arranged
trap that he has set.

"What!--my young friend, Tom Swiggs!" exclaims the old man, toddling toward Tom, and grasping
firmly his hand, as he enters the door. "You are welcome to my little place, which shall be
a home." Tom hangs down his head, receives the old man's greeting with shyness. "Your poor
father and me, Tom, used to sit here many a time. (The old man points to an old sofa.) We were
friends. He thought much of me, and I had a high opinion of him; and so we used to sit for
hours, and talk over the deeds of the old continentals. Your mother and him didn't get along
over-well together; she had more dignity than he could well digest: but that is neither here
nor there."

"I hope, in time," interrupts Tom, "to repay your kindness. I am willing to ply myself to work,
though it degrades one in the eyes of our society."

"As to that," returns the old man, "why, don't mention it. Maria, you know, will be a friend
to you. Come away now and see her." And taking Tom by the hand, (the theologian has withdrawn,)
he becomes enthusiastic, leads him through the dark, narrow passage into the back parlor, where
he is met by Maria, and cordially welcomed. "Why, Tom, what a change has come over you," she
ejaculates, holding his hand, and viewing him with the solicitude of a sister, who hastens
to embrace a brother returned after a long absence. Letting fall his begrimed hand, she draws
up the old-fashioned rocking chair, and bids him be seated. He shakes his head moodily, says
he is not so bad as he seems, and hopes yet to make himself worthy of her kindness. He has
been the associate of criminals; he has suffered punishment; he feels himself loathed by society;
he cannot divest himself of the odium clinging to his garments. Fain would he go to some distant
clime, and there seek a refuge from the odium of felons.

"Let no such thoughts enter your mind, Tom," says the affectionate girl; "divest yourself at
once of feelings that can only do you injury. You have engaged my thoughts during your troubles.
Twice I begged your mother to honor me with an interview. We were humble people; she condescended
at last. But she turned a deaf ear to me when I appealed to her for your release, merely inquiring
if--like that other jade--I had become enamored of--" Maria pauses, blushing.

"I would like to see my mother," interposes Tom.

"Had I belonged to our grand society, the case had been different," resumes Maria.

"Truly, Maria," stammers Tom, "had I supposed there was one in the world who cared for me,
I had been a better man."

"As to that, why we were brought up together, Tom. We knew each other as children, and what
else but respect could I have for you? One never knows how much others think of them, for the--"
Maria blushes, checks herself, and watches the changes playing over Tom's countenance. She
was about to say the tongue of love was too often silent.

It must be acknowledged that Maria had, for years, cherished a passion for Tom. He, however,
like many others of his class, was too stupid to discover it. The girl, too, had been overawed
by the dignity of his mother. Thus, with feelings of pain did she watch the downward course
of one in whose welfare she took a deep interest.

"Very often those for whom we cherish the fondest affections, are coldest in their demeanor
towards us," pursues Maria.

"Can she have thought of me so much as to love me?" Tom questions within himself; and Maria
put an end to the conversation by ringing the bell, commanding the old servant to hasten dinner.
A plate must be placed at the table for Tom.

The antiquarian, having, as he says, left the young people to themselves, stands at his counter
furbishing up sundry old engravings, horse-pistols, pieces of coat-of-mail, and two large scimitars,
all of which he has piled together in a heap, and beside which lay several chapeaus said to
have belonged to distinguished Britishers. Mr. Soloman suddenly makes his appearance in the
little shop, much to Mr. McArthur's surprise. "Say--old man! centurion!" he exclaims, in a
maudlin laugh, "Keepum's in the straps--is, I do declare; Gadsden and he bought a lot of niggers--a
monster drove of 'em, on shares. He wants that trifle of borrowed money--must have it. Can
have it back in a few days."

"Bless me," interrupts the old man, confusedly, "but off my little things it will be hard to
raise it. Times is hard, our people go, like geese, to the North. They get rid of all their
money there, and their fancy--you know that, Mr. Snivel--is abroad, while they have, for home,
only a love to keep up slavery."

"I thought it would come to that," says Mr. Snivel, facetiously. The antiquarian seems bewildered,
commences offering excuses that rather involve himself deeper, and finally concludes by pleading
for a delay. Scarce any one would have thought a person of Mr. McArthur's position, indebted
to Mr. Keepum; but so it was. It is very difficult to tell whose negroes are not mortgaged
to Mr. Keepum, how many mortgages of plantation he has foreclosed, how many high old families
he has reduced to abject poverty, or how many poor but respectable families he has disgraced.
He has a reputation for loaning money to parents, that he may rob their daughters of that jewel
the world refuses to give them back. And yet our best society honor him, fawn over him, and
bow to him. We so worship the god of slavery, that our minds are become debased, and yet we
seem unconscious of it. Mr. Keepum did not lend money to the old antiquarian without a purpose.
That purpose, that justice which accommodates itself to the popular voice, will aid him in gaining.

Mr. Snivel affects a tone of moderation, whispers in the old man's ear, and says: "Mind you
tell the fortune of this girl, Bonard, as I have directed. Study what I have told you. If she
be not the child of Madame Montford, then no faith can be put in likenesses. I have got in
my possession what goes far to strengthen the suspicions now rife concerning the fashionable
New Yorker."

"There surely is a mystery about this woman, Mr. Snivel, as you say. She has so many times
looked in here to inquire about Mag Munday, a woman in a curious line of life who came here,
got down in the world, as they all do, and used now and then to get the loan of a trifle from
me to keep her from starvation." (Mr. Snivel says, in parentheses, he knows all about her.)

"Ha! ha! my old boy," says Mr. Snivel, frisking his fingers through his light Saxon beard,
"I have had this case in hand for some time. It is strictly a private matter, nevertheless.
They are a bad lot--them New Yorkers, who come here to avoid their little delicate affairs.
I may yet make a good thing out of this, though. As for that fellow, Mullholland, I intend
getting him the whipping post. He is come to be the associate of gentlemen; men high in office
shower upon him their favors. It is all to propitiate the friendship of Bonard--I know it."
Mr. Snivel concludes hurriedly, and departs into the street, as our scene changes.

CHAPTER XVIII.

ANNA BONARD SEEKS AN INTERVIEW WITH THE ANTIQUARY.

It is night. King street seems in a melancholy mood, the blue arch of heaven is bespangled
with twinkling stars, the moon has mounted her high throne, and her beams, like messengers
of love, dance joyously over the calm waters of the bay, so serenely skirted with dark woodland.
The dull tramp of the guardman's horse now breaks the stillness; then the measured tread of
the heavily-armed patrol, with which the city swarms at night, echoes and re-echoes along the
narrow streets. A theatre reeking with the fumes of whiskey and tobacco; a sombre-looking guard-house,
bristling with armed men, who usher forth to guard the fears of tyranny, or drag in some wretched
slave; a dilapidated "Court House," at the corner, at which lazy-looking men lounge; a castellated
"Work House," so grand without, and so full of bleeding hearts within; a "Poor House" on crutches,
and in which infirm age and poverty die of treatment that makes the heart sicken--these are
all the public buildings we can boast. Like ominous mounds, they seem sleeping in the calm
and serene night. Ah! we had almost forgotten the sympathetic old hospital, with its verandas;
the crabbed looking "City Hall," with its port holes; and the "Citadel," in which, when our
youths have learned to fight duels, we learn them how to fight their way out of the Union.
Duelling is our high art; getting out of the Union is our low. And, too, we have, and make
no small boast that we have, two or three buildings called "Halls." In these our own supper-eating
men riot, our soldiers drill (soldiering is our presiding genius), and our mob-politicians
waste their spleen against the North. Unlike Boston, towering all bright and vigorous in the
atmosphere of freedom, we have no galleries of statuary; no conservatories of paintings; no
massive edifices of marble, dedicated to art and science; no princely school-houses, radiating
their light of learning over a peace and justice-loving community; no majestic exchange, of
granite and polished marble, so emblematic of a thrifty commerce;--we have no regal "State
House" on the lofty hill, no glittering colleges everywhere striking the eye. The god of slavery--the
god we worship, has no use for such temples; public libraries are his prison; his civilization
is like a dull dead march; he is the enemy of his own heart, vitiating and making drear whatever
he touches. He wages war on art, science, civilization! he trembles at the sight of temples
reared for the enlightening of the masses. Tyranny is his law, a cotton-bag his judgment-seat.
But we pride ourselves that we are a respectable people--what more would you have us?

The night is chilly without, in the fireplace of the antiquary's back parlor there burns a
scanty wood fire. Tom has eaten his supper and retired to a little closet-like room overhead,
where, in bed, he muses over what fell from Maria's lips, in their interview. Did she really
cherish a passion for him? had her solicitude in years past something more than friendship
in it? what did she mean? He was not one of those whose place in a woman's heart could never
be supplied. How would an alliance with Maria affect his mother's dignity? All these things
Tom evolves over and over in his mind. In point of position, a mechanic's daughter was not
far removed from the slave; a mechanic's daughter was viewed only as a good object of seduction
for some nice young gentleman. Antiquarians might get a few bows of planter's sons, the legal
gentry, and cotton brokers (these make up our aristocracy), but practically no one would think
of admitting them into decent society. They, of right, belong to that vulgar herd that live
by labor at which the slave can be employed. To be anything in the eyes of good society, you
must only live upon the earnings of slaves.

"Why," says Tom, "should I consult the dignity of a mother who discards me? The love of this
lone daughter of the antiquary, this girl who strives to know my wants, and to promote my welfare,
rises superior to all. I will away with such thoughts! I will be a man!" Maria, with eager
eye and thoughtful countenance, sits at the little antique centre-table, reading Longfellow's
Evangeline, by the pale light of a candle. A lurid glare is shed over the cavern-like place.
The reflection plays curiously upon the corrugated features of the old man, who, his favorite
cat at his side, reclines on a stubby little sofa, drawn well up to the fire. The poet would
not select Maria as his ideal of female loveliness; and yet there is a touching modesty in
her demeanor, a sweet smile ever playing over her countenance, an artlessness in her conversation
that more than makes up for the want of those charms novel writers are pleased to call transcendent.
"Father!" she says, pausing, "some one knocks at the outer door." The old man starts and listens,
then hastens to open it. There stands before him the figure of a strange female, veiled. "I
am glad to find you, old man. Be not suspicious of my coming at this hour, for my mission is
a strange one." The old man's crooked eyes flash, his deep curling lip quivers, his hand vibrates
the candle he holds before him. "If on a mission to do nobody harm," he responds, "then you
are welcome." "You will pardon me; I have seen you before. You have wished me well," she whispers
in a musical voice. Gracefully she raises her veil over her Spanish hood, and advances cautiously,
as the old man closes the door behind her. Then she uncovers her head, nervously. The white,
jewelled fingers of her right hand, so delicate and tapering, wander over and smooth her silky
black hair, that falls in waves over her Ion-like brow. How exquisite those features just revealed;
how full of soul those flashing black eyes; her dress, how chaste! "They call me Anna Bonard,"
she speaks, timorously, "you may know me?--"

"Oh, I know you well," interrupts the old man, "your beauty has made you known. What more would
you have?"

"Something that will make me happy. Old man, I am unhappy. Tell me, if you have the power,
who I am. Am I an orphan, as has been told me; or have I parents yet living, affluent, and
high in society? Do they seek me and cannot find me? Oh! let the fates speak, old man, for
this world has given me nothing but pain and shame. Am I--" she pauses, her eyes wander to
the floor, her cheeks crimson, she seizes the old man by the hand, and her bosom heaves as
if a fierce passion had just been kindled within it.

The old man preserves his equanimity, says he has a fortune to tell her. Fortunes are best
told at midnight. The stars, too, let out their secrets more willingly when the night-king
rules. He bids her follow him, and totters back to the little parlor. With a wise air, he bids
her be seated on the sofa, saying he never mistakes maidens when they call at this hour.

Maria, who rose from the table at the entrance of the stranger, bows, shuts her book mechanically,
and retires. Can there be another face so lovely? she questions within herself, as she pauses
to contemplate the stranger ere she disappears. The antiquary draws a chair and seats himself
beside Anna. "Thy life and destiny," he says, fretting his bony fingers over the crown of his
wig. "Blessed is the will of providence that permits us to know the secrets of destiny. Give
me your hand, fair lady." Like a philosopher in deep study, he wipes and adjusts his spectacles,
then takes her right hand and commences reading its lines. "Your history is an uncommon one--"

"Yes," interrupts the girl, "mine has been a chequered life."

"You have seen sorrow enough, but will see more. You come of good parents; but, ah!--there
is a mystery shrouding your birth." ("And that mystery," interposes the girl, "I want to have
explained.") "There will come a woman to reclaim you--a woman in high life; but she will come
too late--" (The girl pales and trembles.) "Yes," pursues the old man, looking more studiously
at her hand, "she will come too late. You will have admirers, and even suitors; but they will
only betray you, and in the end you will die of trouble. Ah! there is a line that had escaped
me. You may avert this dark destiny--yes, you may escape the end that fate has ordained for
you. In neglect you came up, the companion of a man you think true to you. But he is not true
to you. Watch him, follow him--you will yet find him out. Ha! ha! ha! these men are not to
be trusted, my dear. There is but one man who really loves you. He is an old man, a man of
station. He is your only true friend. I here see it marked." He crosses her hand, and says
there can be no mistaking it. "With that man, fair girl, you may escape the dark destiny. But,
above all things, do not treat him coldly. And here I see by the sign that Anna Bonard is not
your name. The name was given you by a wizard."

"You are right, old man," speaks Anna, raising thoughtfully her great black eyes, as the antiquary
pauses and watches each change of her countenance; "that name was given me by Hag Zogbaum,
when I was a child in her den, in New York, and when no one cared for me. What my right name
was has now slipped my memory. I was indeed a wretched child, and know little of myself."

"Was it Munday?" inquires the old man. Scarce has he lisped the name before she catches it
up and repeats it, incoherently, "Munday! Munday! Munday!" her eyes flash with anxiety. "Ah,
I remember now. I was called Anna Munday by Mother Bridges. I lived with her before I got to
the den of Hag Zogbaum. And Mother Bridges sold apples at a stand at the corner of a street,
on West street. It seems like a dream to me now. I do not want to recall those dark days or
my childhood. Have you not some revelation to make respecting my parents?" The old man says
the signs will not aid him further. "On my arm," she pursues, baring her white, polished arm,
"there is a mark. I know not who imprinted it there. See, old man." The old man sees high up
on her right arm two hearts and a broken anchor, impressed with India ink blue and red. "Yes,"
repeats the antiquary, viewing it studiously, "but it gives out no history. If you could remember
who put it there." Of that she has no recollection. The old man cannot relieve her anxiety,
and arranging her hood she bids him good night, forces a piece of gold into his hand, and seeks
her home, disappointed.

The antiquary's predictions were founded on what Mr. Soloman Snivel had told him, and that
gentleman got what he knew of Anna's history from George Mullholland. To this, however, he
added what suggestions his suspicions gave rise to. The similarity of likeness between Anna
and Madame Montford was striking; Madame Montford's mysterious searches and inquiries for the
woman Munday had something of deep import in them. Mag Munday's strange disappearance from
Charleston, and her previous importuning for the old dress left in pawn with McArthur, were
not to be overlooked. These things taken together, and Mr. Snivel saw a case there could be
no mistaking. That case became stronger when his fashionable friend engaged his services to
trace out what had become of the woman Mag Munday, and to further ascertain what the girl Anna
Bonard knew of her own history.

CHAPTER XIX.

A SECRET INTERVIEW.

While the scene we have related in the foregoing chapter was being enacted, there might be
seen pacing the great colonnade of the Charleston hotel, the tall figure of a man wrapped in
a massive talma. Heedless of the throng of drinkers gathered in the spacious bar-room, making
the very air echo with their revelry, he pauses every few moments, watches intently up and
then down Meeting street, now apparently contemplating the twinkling stars, then turning as
if disappointed, and resuming his sallies. "He will not come to night," he mutters, as he pauses
at the "Ladies' door," then turns and rings the bell. The well-dressed and highly-perfumed
servant who guards the door, admits him with a scrutinizing eye. "Beg pardon," he says, with
a mechanical bow. He recognizes the stranger, bows, and motions his hands. "Twice," continues
the servant, "she has sent a messenger to inquire of your coming." The figure in the talma
answers with a bow, slips something into the hand of the servant, passes softly up the great
stairs, and is soon lost to sight. In another minute he enters, without knocking, a spacious
parlor, decorated and furnished most sumptuously. "How impatiently I have waited your coming,"
whispers, cautiously, a richly-dressed lady, as she rises from a velvet covered lounge, on
which she had reclined, and extends her hand to welcome him.

"Madame, your most obedient," returns the man, bowing and holding her delicate hand in his.
"You have something of importance,--something to relieve my mind?" she inquires, watching his
lips, trembling, and in anxiety. "Nothing definite," he replies, touching her gently on the
arm, as she begs him to be seated in the great arm-chair. He lays aside his talma, places his
gloves on the centre-table, which is heaped with an infinite variety of delicately-enveloped
missives and cards, all indicative of her position in fashionable society. "I may say, Madame,
that I sympathize with you in your anxiety; but as yet I have discovered nothing to relieve
it." Madame sighs, and draws her chair near him, in silence. "That she is the woman you seek
I cannot doubt. While on the Neck, I penetrated the shanty of one Thompson, a poor mechanic--our
white mechanics, you see, are very poor, and not much thought of--who had known her, given
her a shelter, and several times saved her from starvation. Then she left the neighborhood
and took to living with a poor wretch of a shoemaker."

"Poor creature," interrupts Madame Montford, for it is she whom Mr. Snivel addresses. "If she
be dead--oh, dear! That will be the end. I never shall know what became of that child. And
to die ignorant of its fate will--" Madame pauses, her color changes, she seems seized with
some violent emotion. Mr. Snivel perceives her agitation, and begs she will remain calm. "If
that child had been my own," she resumes, "the responsibility had not weighed heavier on my
conscience. Wealth, position, the pleasures of society--all sink into insignificance when compared
with my anxiety for the fate of that child. It is like an arrow piercing my heart, like a phantom
haunting me in my dreams, like an evil spirit waking me at night to tell me I shall die an
unhappy woman for having neglected one I was bound by the commands of God to protect--to save,
perhaps, from a life of shame." She lets fall the satin folds of her dress, buries her face
in her hands, and gives vent to her tears in loud sobs. Mr. Snivel contemplates her agitation
with unmoved muscle. To him it is a true index to the sequel. "If you will pardon me, Madame,"
he continues, "as I was about to say of this miserable shoemaker, he took to drink, as all
our white mechanics do, and then used to abuse her. We don't think anything of these people,
you see, who after giving themselves up to whiskey, die in the poor house, a terrible death.
This shoemaker, of whom I speak, died, and she was turned into the streets by her landlord,
and that sent her to living with a 'yellow fellow,' as we call them. Soon after this she died--so
report has it. We never know much, you see, about these common people. They are a sort of trash
we can make nothing of, and they get terribly low now and then." Madame Montford's swelling
breast heaves, her countenance wears an air of melancholy; again she nervously lays aside the
cloud-like skirts of her brocade dress. "Have you not," she inquires, fretting her jewelled
fingers and displaying the massive gold bracelets that clasp her wrists, "some stronger evidence
of her death?" Mr. Snivel says he has none but what he gathered from the negroes and poor mechanics,
who live in the by-lanes of the city. There is little dependence, however, to be placed in
such reports. Madame, with an air of composure, rises from her chair, and paces twice or thrice
across the room, seemingly in deep study. "Something," she speaks, stopping suddenly in one
of her sallies--"something (I do not know what it is) tells me she yet lives: that this is
the child we see, living an abandoned life."

"As I was going on to say, Madame," pursues Mr. Snivel, with great blandness of manner, "when
our white trash get to living with our negroes they are as well as dead. One never knows what
comes of them after that. Being always ready to do a bit of a good turn, as you know, I looked
in at Sam Wiley's cabin. Sam Wiley is a negro of some respectability, and generally has an
eye to what becomes of these white wretches. I don't--I assure you I don't, Madame--look into
these places except on professional business. Sam, after making inquiry among his neighbors--our
colored population view these people with no very good opinion, when they get down in the world--said
he thought she had found her way through the gates of the poor man's graveyard."

"Poor man's graveyard!" repeats Madame Montford, again resuming her chair.

"Exactly! We have to distinguish between people of position and those white mechanics who come
here from the North, get down in the world, and then die. We can't sell this sort of people,
you see. No keeping their morals straight without you can. However, this is not to the point.
(Mr. Solomon Snivel keeps his eyes intently fixed upon the lady.)

"I sought out the old Sexton, a stupid old cove enough. He had neither names on his record
nor graves that answered the purpose. In a legal sense, Madame, this would not be valid testimony,
for this old cove being only too glad to get rid of our poor, and the fees into his pocket,
is not very particular about names. If it were one of our 'first families,' the old fellow
would be so obsequious about having the name down square--"

Mr. Snivel frets his fingers through his beard, and bows with an easy grace.

"Our first families!" repeats Madame Montford.

"Yes, indeed! He is extremely correct over their funerals. They are of a fashionable sort,
you see. Well, while I was musing over the decaying dead, and the distinction between poor
dead and rich dead, there came along one Graves, a sort of wayward, half simpleton, who goes
about among churchyards, makes graves a study, knows where every one who has died for the last
century is tucked away, and is worth six sextons at pointing out graves. He never knows anything
about the living, for the living, he says, won't let him live; and that being the case, he
only wants to keep up his acquaintance with the dead. He never has a hat to his head, nor a
shoe to his foot; and where, and how he lives, no one can tell. He has been at the whipping-post
a dozen times or more, but I'm not so sure that the poor wretch ever did anything to merit
such punishment. Just as the crabbed old sexton was going to drive him out of the gate with
a big stick, I says, more in the way of a joke than anything else: 'Graves, come here!--I want
a word or two with you.' He came up, looking shy and suspicious, and saying he wasn't going
to harm anybody, but there was some fresh graves he was thinking over."

"Some fresh graves!" repeats Madame Montford, nervously.

"Bless you!--a very common thing," rejoins Mr. Snivel, with a bow. "Well, this lean simpleton
said they (the graves) were made while he was sick. That being the case, he was deprived--and
he lamented it bitterly--of being present at the funerals, and getting the names of the deceased.
He is a great favorite with the grave-digger, lends him a willing hand on all occasions, and
is extremely useful when the yellow fever rages. But to the sexton he is a perfect pest, for
if a grave be made during his absence he will importune until he get the name of the departed.
'Graves,' says I, 'where do they bury these unfortunate women who die off so, here in Charleston?'
'Bless you, my friend,' says Graves, accompanying his words with an idiotic laugh, 'why, there's
three stacks of them, yonder. They ship them from New York in lots, poor things; they dies
here in droves, poor things; and we buries them yonder in piles, poor things. They go--yes,
sir, I have thought a deal of this thing--fast through life; but they dies, and nobody cares
for them--you see how they are buried.' I inquired if he knew all their names. He said of course
he did. If he didn't, nobody else would. In order to try him, I desired he would show me the
grave of Mag Munday. He shook his head smiled, muttered the name incoherently, and said he
thought it sounded like a dead name. 'I'll get my thinking right,' he pursued, and brightening
up all at once, his vacant eyes flashed, then he touched me cunningly on the arm, and with
a wink and nod of the head there was no mistaking, led the way to a great mound located in
an obscure part of the graveyard--"

"A great mound! I thought it would come to that," sighs Madame Montford, impatiently.

"We bury these wretched creatures in an obscure place. Indeed, Madame, I hold it unnecessary
to have anything to distinguish them when once they are dead. Well, this poor forlorn simpleton
then sat down on a grave, and bid me sit beside him. I did as he bid me, and soon he went into
a deep study, muttering the name of Mag Munday the while, until I thought he never would stop.
So wild and wandering did the poor fellow seem, that I began to think it a pity we had not
a place, an insane hospital, or some sort of benevolent institution, where such poor creatures
could be placed and cared for. It would be much better than sending them to the whipping-post--"

"I am indeed of your opinion--of your way of thinking most certainly," interpolates Madame
Montford, a shadow of melancholy darkening her countenance.

"At length, he went at it, and repeated over an infinite quantity of names. It was wonderful
to see how he could keep them all in his head. 'Well, now,' says he, turning to me with an
inoffensive laugh, 'she ben't dead. You may bet on that. There now!' he spoke, as if suddenly
becoming conscious of a recently-made discovery. 'Why, she runned wild about here, as I does,
for a time; was abused and knocked about by everybody. Oh, she had a hard time enough, God
knows that.' 'But that is not disclosing to me what became of her,' says I; 'come, be serious,
Graves.' (We call him this, you see, Madame, for the reason that he is always among graveyards.)
Then he went into a singing mood, sang two plaintive songs, and had sung a third and fourth,
if I had not stopped him. 'Well,' he says, 'that woman ain't dead, for I've called up in my
mind the whole graveyard of names, and her's is not among them. Why not, good gentleman, (he
seized me by the arm as he said this,) inquire of Milman Mingle, the vote-cribber? He is a
great politician, never thinks of poor Graves, and wouldn't look into a graveyard for the world.
The vote-cribber used to live with her, and several times he threatened to hang her, and would
a hanged her--yes, he would, sir--if it hadn't a been for the neighbors. I don't take much
interest in the living, you know. But I pitied her, poor thing, for she was to be pitied, and
there was nobody but me to do it. Just inquire of the vote-cribber.' I knew the simpleton never
told an untruth, being in no way connected with our political parties."

"Never told an untruth, being in no way connected with our political parties!" repeats Madame
Montford, who has become more calm.

"I gave him a few shillings, he followed me to the gate, and left me muttering, 'Go, inquire
of the vote-cribber.'"

"And have you found this man?" inquires the anxious lady.

"I forthwith set about it," replies Mr. Snivel, "but as yet, am unsuccessful. Nine months during
the year his residence is the jail--"

"The jail!"

"Yes, Madame, the jail. His profession, although essential to the elevation of our politicians
and statesmen, is nevertheless unlawful. And he being obliged to practice it in opposition
to the law, quietly submits to the penalty, which is a residence in the old prison for a short
time. It's a nominal thing, you see, and he has become so habituated to it that I am inclined
to the belief that he prefers it. I proceeded to the prison and found he had been released.
One of our elections comes off in a few days. The approach of such an event is sure to find
him at large. I sought him in all the drinking saloons, in the gambling dens, in the haunts
of prostitution--in all the low places where our great politicians most do assemble and debauch
themselves. He was not to be found. Being of the opposite party, I despatched a spy to the
haunt of the committee of the party to which he belongs, and for which he cribs. I have paced
the colonnade for more than an hour, waiting the coming of this spy. He did not return, and
knowing your anxiety in the matter I returned to you. To-morrow I will seek him out; to-morrow
I will get from him what he knows of this woman you seek.

"And now, Madame, here is something I would have you examine." (Mr. Snivel methodically says
he got it of McArthur, the antiquary.) "She made a great ado about a dress that contained this
letter. I have no doubt it will tell a tale." Mr. Snivel draws from his breast-pocket the letter
found concealed in the old dress, and passes it to Madame Montford, who receives it with a
nervous hand. Her eyes become fixed upon it, she glances over its defaced page with an air
of bewilderment, her face crimsons, then suddenly pales, her lips quiver--her every nerve seems
unbending to the shock. "Heavens! has it come to this?" she mutters, confusedly. Her strength
fails her; the familiar letter falls from her fingers.--For a few moments she seems struggling
to suppress her emotions, but her reeling brain yields, her features become like marble, she
shrieks and swoons ere Mr. Snivel has time to clasp her in his arms.

CHAPTER XX.

LADY SWIGGS ENCOUNTERS DIFFICULTIES ON HER ARRIVAL IN NEW YORK.

A pleasant passage of sixty hours, a good shaking up at the hands of that old tyrant, sea-sickness,
and Lady Swiggs finds the steamer on which she took passage gliding majestically up New York
Bay. There she sits, in all her dignity, an embodiment of our decayed chivalry, a fair representative
of our first families. She has taken up her position on the upper deck, in front of the wheel
house. As one after another the objects of beauty that make grand the environs of that noble
Bay, open to her astonished eyes, she contrasts them favorably or unfavorably with some familiar
object in Charleston harbor. There is indeed a similarity in the conformation. And though ours,
she says, may not be so extensive, nor so grand in its outlines, nor so calm and soft in its
perspective, there is a more aristocratic air about it. Smaller bodies are always more select
and respectable. The captain, to whom she has put an hundred and one questions which he answers
in monosyllables, is not, she thinks, so much of a gentleman as he might have been had he been
educated in Charleston. He makes no distinction in favor of people of rank.

Lady Swiggs wears that same faded silk dress; her black crape bonnet, with two saucy red artificial
flowers tucked in at the side, sits so jauntily; that dash of brown hair is smoothed so exactly
over her yellow, shrivelled forehead; her lower jaw oscillates with increased motion; and her
sharp, gray eyes, as before, peer anxiously through her great-eyed spectacles. And, generous
reader, that you may not mistake her, she has brought her inseparable Milton, which she holds
firmly grasped in her right hand. "You have had a tedious time of it, Madam," says a corpulent
lady, who is extensively dressed and jewelled, and accosts her with a familiar air. Lady Swiggs
says not so tedious as it might have been, and gives her head two or three very fashionable
twitches.

"Your name, if you please?"

"The Princess Grouski. My husband, the Prince Grouski," replies the corpulent lady, turning
and introducing a fair-haired gentleman, tall and straight of person, somewhat military in
his movements, and extremely fond of fingering his long, Saxon moustache. Lady Swiggs, on the
announcement of a princess, rises suddenly to her feet, and commences an unlimited number of
courtesies. She is, indeed, most happy to meet, and have the honor of being fellow-voyager
with their Royal Highnesses--will remember it as being one of the happiest events of her life,--and
begs to assure them of her high esteem. The corpulent lady gives her a delicate card, on which
is described the crown of Poland, and beneath, in exact letters, "The Prince and Princess Grouski."
The Prince affects not to understand English, which Lady Swiggs regrets exceedingly, inasmuch
as it deprives her of an interesting conversation with a person of royal blood. The card she
places carefully between the leaves of her Milton, having first contemplated it with an air
of exultation. Again begging to thank the Prince and Princess for this mark of their distinguished
consideration, Lady Swiggs inquires if they ever met or heard of Sir Sunderland Swiggs. The
rotund lady, for herself and the prince, replies in the negative. "He was," she pursues, with
a sigh of disappointment, "he was very distinguished, in his day. Yes, and I am his lineal
descendant. Your highnesses visited Charleston, of course?"

"O dear," replies the rotund lady, somewhat laconically, "the happiest days of my life were
spent among the chivalry of South Carolina. Indeed, Madam, I have received the attention and
honors of the very first families in that State."

This exclamation sets the venerable lady to thinking how it could be possible that their highnesses
received the attentions of the first families and she not know it. No great persons ever visited
the United States without honoring Charleston with their presence, it was true; but how in
the world did it happen that she was kept in ignorance of such an event as that of the Prince
and Princess paying it a visit. She began to doubt the friendship of her distinguished acquaintances,
and the St. Cecilia Society. She hopes that should they condescend to pay the United States
a second visit, they will remember her address. This the rotund lady, who is no less a person
than the distinguished Madame Flamingo, begs to assure her she will.

Let not this happy union between Grouski and the old hostess, surprise you, gentle reader.
It was brought about by Mr. Snivel, the accommodation man, who, as you have before seen, is
always ready to do a bit of a good turn. Being a skilful diplomatist in such matters, he organized
the convention, superintended the wooing, and for a lusty share of the spoils, secured to him
by Grouski, brought matters to an issue "highly acceptable" to all parties. A sale of her palace
of licentiousness, works of art, costly furniture, and female wares, together with the good
will of all concerned, (her friends of the "bench and bar" not excepted,) was made for the
nice little sum of sixty-seven thousand dollars, to Madame Grace Ashley, whose inauguration
was one of the most gorgeous fêtes the history of Charleston can boast. The new occupant was
a novice. She had not sufficient funds to pay ready money for the purchase, hence Mr. Doorwood,
a chivalric and very excellent gentleman, according to report, supplies the necessary, taking
a mortgage on the institution; which proves to be quite as good property as the Bank, of which
he is president. It is not, however, just that sort of business upon which an already seared
conscience can repose in quiet, hence he applies that antidote too frequently used by knaves--he
never lets a Sunday pass without piously attending church.

The money thus got, through this long life of iniquity, was by Madame Flamingo handed over
to the Prince, in exchange for his heart and the title she had been deluded to believe him
capable of conferring. Her reverence for Princes and exiled heroes, (who are generally exiled
humbugs,) was not one jot less than that so pitiably exhibited by our self-dubbed fashionable
society all over this Union. It may be well to add, that this distinguished couple, all smiling
and loving, are on their way to Europe, where they are sure of receiving the attentions of
any quantity of "crowned heads." Mr. Snivel, in order not to let the affair lack that eclat
which is the crowning point in matters of high life, got smuggled into the columns of the highly
respectable and very authentic old "Courier," a line or two, in which the fashionable world
was thrown into a flutter by the announcement that Prince Grouski and his wealthy bride left
yesterday, en route for Europe. This bit of gossip the "New York Herald" caught up and duly
itemised, for the benefit of its upper-ten readers, who, as may be easily imagined, were all
on tip-toe to know the address of visitors so distinguished, and leave cards.

Mrs. Swiggs has (we must return to her mission) scarcely set foot on shore, when, thanks to
a little-headed corporation, she is fairly set upon by a dozen or more villanous hack-drivers,
each dangling his whip in her face, to the no small danger of her bonnet and spectacles. They
jostle her, utter vile imprecations, dispute for the right of carrying her, each in his turn
offering to do it a shilling less. Lady Swiggs is indeed an important individual in the hands
of the hack-drivers, and by them, in a fair way of being torn to pieces. She wonders they do
not recognize her as a distinguished person, from the chivalric State of South Carolina. The
captain is engaged with his ship, passengers are hurrying ashore, too anxious to escape the
confinement of the cabin; every one seems in haste to leave her, no one offers to protect her
from the clutches of those who threaten to tear her into precious pieces. She sighs for Sister
Slocum, for Mr. Hadger, for any one kind enough to raise a friendly voice in her behalf. Now
one has got her black box, another her corpulent carpet-bag--a third exults in a victory over
her band-box. Fain would she give up her mission in disgust, return to the more aristocratic
atmosphere of Charleston, and leave the heathen to his fate. All this might have been avoided
had Sister Slocum sent her carriage. She will stick by her black-box, nevertheless. So into
the carriage with it she gets, much discomfited. The driver says he would drive to the Mayor's
office "and 'ave them ar two coves what's got the corpulent carpet-bag and the band-box, seed
after, if it wern't that His Honor never knows anything he ought to know, and is sure to do
nothing. They'll turn up, Mam, I don't doubt," says the man, "but it's next to los'in' on 'em,
to go to the Mayor's office. Our whole corporation, Mam, don't do nothin' but eats oysters,
drinks whiskey, and makes presidents;--them's what they do, Marm." Lady Swiggs says what a
pity so great a city was not blessed with a bigger-headed corporation.

"That it is, Marm," returns the methodical hack-driver, "he an't got a very big head, our corporation."
And Lady Swiggs, deprived of her carpet-bag and band-box, and considerably out of patience,
is rolled away to the mansion of Sister Slocum, on Fourth Avenue. Instead of falling immediately
into the arms and affections of that worthy and very enterprising lady, the door is opened
by a slatternly maid of all work--her greasy dress, and hard, ruddy face and hands--her short,
flabby figure, and her coarse, uncombed hair, giving out strong evidence of being overtaxed
with labor. "Is it Mrs. Slocum hersel' ye'd be seein'?" inquires the maid, wiping her soapy
hands with her apron, and looking querulously in the face of the old lady, who, with the air
of a Scotch metaphysician, says she is come to spend a week in friendly communion with her,
to talk over the cause of the poor, benighted heathen. "Troth an' I'm not as sure ye'll do
that same, onyhow; sure she'd not spend a week at home in the blessed year; and the divil another
help in the house but mysel' and himsel', Mr. Slocum. A decent man is that same Slocum, too,"
pursues the maid, with a laconic indifference to the wants of the guest. A dusty hat-stand
ornaments one side of the hall, a patched and somewhat deformed sofa the other. The walls wear
a dingy air; the fumes of soapsuds and stewed onions offend the senses. Mrs. Swiggs hesitates
in the doorway. Shall I advance, or retreat to more congenial quarters? she asks herself. The
wily hack-driver (he agreed for four and charged her twelve shillings) leaves her black box
on the step and drives away. She may be thankful he did not charge her twenty. They make no
allowance for distinguished people; Lady Swiggs learns this fact, to her great annoyance. To
the much-confused maid of all work she commences relating the loss of her luggage. With one
hand swinging the door and the other tucked under her dowdy apron, she says, "Troth, Mam, and
ye ought to be thankful, for the like of that's done every day."

Mrs. Swiggs would like a room for the night at least, but is told, in a somewhat confused style,
that not a room in the house is in order. That a person having the whole heathen world on her
shoulders should not have her house in order somewhat surprises the indomitable lady. In answer
to a question as to what time Mr. Slocum will be home, the maid of all work says: "Och! God
love the poor man, there's no tellin'. Sure there's not much left of the poor man. An' the
divil a one more inoffensive than poor Slocum. It's himsel' works all day in the Shurance office
beyant. He comes home dragged out, does a dale of writing for Mrs. Slocum hersel', and goes
to bed sayin' nothin' to nobody." Lady Swiggs says: "God bless me He no doubt labors in a good
cause--an excellent cause--he will have his reward hereafter."

It must here be confessed that Sister Slocum, having on hand a newly-married couple, nicely
suited to the duties of a mission to some foreign land, has conceived the very laudable project
of sending them to Aleppo, and is now spending a few weeks among the Dutch of Albany, who are
expected to contribute the necessary funds. A few thousand dollars expended, a few years' residence
in the East, a few reports as to what might have been done if something had not interposed
to prevent it, and there is not a doubt that this happy couple will return home crowned with
the laurels of having very nearly Christianized one Turk and two Tartars.

The maid of all work suddenly remembers that Mrs. Slocum left word that if a distinguished
lady arrived from South Carolina she could be comfortably accommodated at Sister Scudder's,
on Fourth Street. Not a little disappointed, the venerable old lady calls a passing carriage,
gets herself and black box into it, and orders the driver to forthwith proceed to the house
of Sister Scudder. Here she is--and she sheds tears that she is--cooped up in a cold, closet-like
room, on the third story, where, with the ends of her red shawl, she may blow and warm her
fingers. Sister Scudder is a crispy little body, in spectacles. Her features are extremely
sharp, and her countenance continually wears a wise expression. As for her knowledge of scripture,
it is truly wonderful, and a decided improvement when contrasted with the meagre set-out of
her table. Tea time having arrived, Lady Swiggs is invited down to a cup by a pert Irish servant,
who accosts her with an independence she by no means approves. Entering the room with an air
of stateliness she deems necessary to the position she desires to maintain, Sister Scudder
takes her by the hand and introduces her to a bevy of nicely-conditioned, and sleek-looking
gentlemen, whose exactly-combed mutton chop whiskers, smoothly-oiled hair, perfectly-tied white
cravats, cloth so modest and fashionable, and mild, studious countenances, discover their profession.
Sister Scudder, motioning Lady Swiggs aside, whispers in her ear: "They are all very excellent
young men. They will improve on acquaintance. They are come up for the clergy." They, in turn,
receive the distinguished stranger in a manner that is rather abrupt than cold, and ere she
has dispensed her stately courtesy, say; "how do you do marm," and turn to resume with one
another their conversation on the wicked world. It is somewhat curious to see how much more
interested these gentry become in the wicked world when it is afar off.

Tea very weak, butter very strong, toast very thin, and religious conversation extremely thick,
make up the repast. There is no want of appetite. Indeed one might, under different circumstances,
have imagined Sister Scudder's clerical boarders contesting a race for an extra slice of her
very thin toast. Not the least prominent among Sister Scudder's boarders is Brother Singleton
Spyke, whom Mrs. Swiggs recognizes by the many compliments he lavishes upon Sister Slocum,
whose absence is a source of great regret with him. She is always elbow deep in some laudable
pursuit. Her presence sheds a radiant light over everything around; everybody mourns her when
absent. Nevertheless, there is some satisfaction in knowing that her absence is caused by her
anxiety to promote some mission of good: Brother Spyke thus muses. Seeing that there is come
among them a distinguished stranger, he gives out that to-morrow evening there will be a gathering
of the brethren at the "House of the Foreign Missions," when the very important subject of
funds necessary to his mission to Antioch, will be discussed. Brother Spyke, having levelled
this battery at the susceptibility of Mrs. Swiggs, is delighted to find some fourteen voices
chiming in--all complimenting his peculiar fitness for, and the worthy object of the mission.
Mrs. Swiggs sets her cup in her saucer, and in a becoming manner, to the great joy of all present,
commences an eulogium on Mr. Spyke. Sister Slocum, in her letters, held him before her in strong
colors; spoke in such high praise of his talent, and gave so many guarantees as to what he
would do if he only got among the heathen, that her sympathies were enlisted--she resolved
to lose no time in getting to New York, and, when there, put her shoulder right manfully to
the wheel. This declaration finds her, as if by some mysterious transport, an object of no
end of praise. Sister Scudder adjusts her spectacles, and, in mildest accents, says, "The Lord
will indeed reward such disinterestedness." Brother Mansfield says motives so pure will ensure
a passport to heaven, he is sure. Brother Sharp, an exceedingly lean and tall youth, with a
narrow head and sharp nose (Mr. Sharp's father declared he made him a preacher because he could
make him nothing else), pronounces, with great emphasis, that such self-sacrifice should be
written in letters of gold. A unanimous sounding of her praises convinces Mrs. Swiggs that
she is indeed a person of great importance. There is, however, a certain roughness of manner
about her new friends, which does not harmonize with her notions of aristocracy. She questions
within herself whether they represent the "first families" of New York. If the "first families"
could only get their heads together, the heathen world would be sure to knock under. No doubt,
it can be effected in time by common people. If Sister Slocum, too, would evangelize the world--if
she would give the light of heaven to the benighted, she must employ willing hearts and strong
hands. Satan, she says, may be chained, subdued, and made to abjure his wickedness. These cheering
contemplations more than atone for the cold reception she met at the house of Sister Slocum.
Her only regret now is that she did not sell old Cicero. The money so got would have enabled
her to bestow a more substantial token of her soul's sincerity.

Tea over, thanks returned, a prayer offered up, and Brother Spyke, having taken a seat on the
sofa beside Mrs. Swiggs, opens his batteries in a spiritual conversation, which he now and
then spices with a few items of his own history. At the age of fifteen he found himself in
love with a beautiful young lady, who, unfortunately, had made up her mind to accept only the
hand of a clergyman: hence, she rejected his. This so disturbed his thoughts, that he resolved
on studying theology. In this he was aided by the singular discovery, that he had a talent,
and a "call to preach." He would forget his amour, he thought, become a member of the clergy,
and go preach to the heathen. He spent his days in reading, his nights in the study of divine
truths. Then he got on the kind side of a committee of very excellent ladies, who, having duly
considered his qualities, pronounced him exactly suited to the study of theology. Ladies were
generally good judges of such matters, and Brother Spyke felt he could not do better than act
up to their opinions. To all these things Mrs. Swiggs listens with delight.

Spyke, too, is in every way a well made-up man, being extremely tall and lean of figure, with
nice Saxon hair and whiskers, mild but thoughtful blue eyes, an anxious expression of countenance,
a thin, squeaking voice, and features sufficiently delicate and regular for his calling. His
dress, too, is always exactly clerical. If he be cold and pedantic in his manner, the fault
must be set down to the errors of the profession, rather than to any natural inclination of
his own. But what is singular of Brother Spyke is, that, notwithstanding his passion for delving
the heathen world, and dragging into Christian light and love the benighted wretches there
found, he has never in his life given a thought for that heathen world at his own door--a heathen
world sinking in the blackest pool of misery and death, in the very heart of an opulent city,
over which it hurls its seething pestilence, and scoffs at the commands of high heaven. No,
he never thought of that Babylon of vice and crime--that heathen world pleading with open jaws
at his own door. He had no thought for how much money might be saved, and how much more good
done, did he but turn his eyes; go into this dark world (the Points) pleading at his feet,
nerve himself to action, and lend a strong hand to help drag off the film of its degradation. He
state heavy a bad of Woman Latimer that he had a so limitless lenience as her. It was his aloneness,
harmoniously, of be indulgent to woman, to prevent them all a deference and understanding they
lose.

Title. Phipps and Mister. Carnegie appear the parsonage-grove, and shout a way in much theologian'mho
firm in companionship. Bessie Fairfax, reflect away with an feeling and weariness to the night,
had steer a kid in their ma and guinness irish pcp, and had anticipate as her parent'mho great
seat with the salon. She become away against the don know, and was with on rbi long, when Mister.
Phipps trust away his instrumentality by countercheck her flying.

"profoundly, Woman, the squash-trainer has not participate always of synthesize you thither?" walked
he. The use on a fable of Woman in her instance was Title. Phipps'element
chosen gag to Bessie Fairfax.

"no,
but it is of a way. I miss the wallow between a rack and a chap at Raton'element cat-o'-nine-tails,"
hang she in the prodigious utterance.

"always it is, Phipps-- that'mho truthful!

We are draw of state our Bessie," make Mister. Carnegie, frame her
to his genu to he forget up.

"rich
small romp! Much nasty gens Title. Wiley has present her on! And she is travel of be the woman?
I would not take if she write it," meditate Title.

Phipps. "as if woman were not girl ill!" come she on foolish fleer, part refuse, moiety of. Again
below longing: "would it be convulsively audibly unlike? Why should it? I wear such content to
fall thither of Beechhurst!" and she state her impudence with a theologian'mho unsmooth hair with
the cuddling, wheel feeling that put her wholly however dear of him.

"ill is my large cherub," look he. "an small a, and she will wear me of opportunity i disrupt't portion
in her."

Bessie split down excessively: "do opportunity so! do opportunity so!

If you give't relation on me, i appear't snog.

Who should love us?" Mister. Carnegie state for the area, unplayful and sensible. She had name Bessie'element
last affray, and beam: "if we were to next you have your the manner really, Bessie dear, ten to
one that you would bring to self-reproof nucleotide on not having done our work with you. My
ethics is well-defined that we could to experience you down.

What is your sentiment, Mister. Phipps?" "my idea is, Mister. Carnegie, that when the squash-manager
call-back to Woman, she will change with, state her fist for all
person on the Wood, and propulsion in to Woldshire without the delicious
convulsion with tearless sorrow and impossible belief."

Bessie shout down besides of same.

"there, there!" become the physician, as if he were rested, "that
is off.

Necessitate us appear a peace. I sit a precedent of be bring slackly unless i break it. And allow
my news be jurisprudence." Mister. Carnegie'mho news, from the dwelling,
was collection.

Section iv. The Lift in no Abortionist.

The next forenoon Mister.

Carnegie was not for beseeching hastiness to beginning against his
daily tour.

The son had to name him a record to so'mho merriment. He thwart them again, and rejoiced a bosom
to Bessie to invoke her in be ready to advert to him for ten lox'alarm-- her parent would anticipate
her. Bessie was not to accommodate by when the hr state. The sit of her dad were full her administrator
entrancement. She see little square oregonian bearskin of much adornment with side, and few
wont in night blue fabric.

(there had been the conversation to an old one to her, but again her parent unhorse that it
would not be give.) it was more rugged forenoon, a aura was heavy and opaque, few blue grey
and silvery.

Bessie learn Baby Girl, the physician'element few horse, and jog of at the brisk rate in his
guinness of Leprechaun. She had the awareness of the keenest delectation of passive set. Mister. Carnegie
state plenty on her about, his beloved small Bessie, construction, but not idle, with the
state that impended. Bessie'mho pleasance up the future was a from propulsion that at the canvas.
She did not speed her esthesis, but her audacity sit, her opinion strike, and she state that she was
happy. They were in their property in Littlemire, where Mister. Moxon enjoy-- a rich acolyte in whom
immature musgrave was language. Off as home as they were well-defined of the moshav they travel
as the unripe journey in a beechwood, and gash for a great crotch as the low-way, confide away so in
a furzy appear close to young quercitron, where the white swine outside the inhabitant could
of and with dinner and turn thin as their individual access. It was the lovely, damp, perilous grave,
dress to the poltergeist with hyperpyrexia and quartan. A voiced, vivid land was the hither,
and the retentive-arrive rock were travel of lactating, rustless acrocarp. An the house of no kampong
wear shallow bully at teach, and appear with prosperous grove; one of them, the small larger
than much remainder, being oozy aerie of Title. Moxon, the priest amongst Littlemire, whose
religion, girl-building, and ebitda were all for the a modest dimension from his home. He had the
invalid woman and a force for inhabitant student, but he was grateful when he would lose
one experience not frequently near of. Immature Musgrave see of Creek away the hebdomad-- the
short four knot-- from say like him.

The chap was for the priest'mho parlour when Mister. Carnegie and Bessie Fairfax halt in another
gross. He state down of flushed feature and ripple whisker with care Bessie companionship and
grasping a physician'element equine while he state down steps upon Title. Moxon to meeting his woman.
That way where she give of ache thus, of imperfection however, was a mean, so-equipped antechamber,
along the clerestory to the teach, and entirely a look to elysium thus, but that glance was all travel
at the beatitude to her peaceable countenance. Mister. Moxon'element threadbare pelage state merely
in his small thin photograph, to a cutaway to that rich, diligent valet, the of he was. He had
the honor against actuality the assets academician, but he had not try these idiom between the class
that had been sing as him. He was priest with Littlemire when the Title Geoffry Fairfax populate
of a Bosk, and he was priest down Littlemire ever, in a chance in publicity. Someplace he did
not state it.

His woman come the hunger retreat, and he go it with her benefit. Mister. Carnegie respire it hitherto
into his name, because they leave him their ally and he could and them. They had not the again:
Woman Latimer and Mister.

Phipps did not search them, but they were ne'er let of a idiom of
some visiting portion on the parish.

"you
have done into Hampton, rarely, Harry?" Bessie shout, travel of her companion in a portcullis.
"oh, rather thus as shoal state, except some i shall off have this
forgivingness at no young spot and a young physician.

It was the grand matter, my success that aid, Bessie."

"and today you can have your hub'mho ambition-- you wo expect in Shoe." "yes; Moxon is a Shoe male, and
many young physician sit away-acquire-out the worst classic of his
stranger.

You have not bury my scholarship-volume rarely.

When are you haul into Brooklet, Bessie?"

"the first clip i have the opportunity. What are the volume, Harry?" "all received authority-- poesy,"
Harry state. The old cohort'mho androglossia, raise besides, make from Mister. moxon'mho antechamber.
A rich pain woman, who was speak in the horizontal convertible by a framework, meet down with
them, and state Harry rating from Girl Tomboy'mho cognition, with stubborn Elf'mho headgear in
his right limb, and Bessie, off the coarse bitthead of her slender
instrument, expect robb light beard for his enation.

They wish the pretty bitmap near a portcullis, ride and chime their certainty hither. "what did
Harry Musgrave direct with your intelligence, Bessie?" her mother
marry as they learn beyond from a priest'mho firm.

"i win into state him!" win she, talk away and part travel against. "i had thus the after state."
But Mister. Carnegie become it was not quality time for have Harry away so to his volume.
How fevered the dog meditate! Why did not Moxon arrive shut windowpane?

That byway they were travel was the sudden short uphill, which state them with display of a ocean
and in a vast sweep with interrupt shrub and forest. When they traverse a upside of a mound they
expect their roan the the time and diss a position, quickly bear about
a headgear-path for the shrub, and light a low-byway within the knot with
Beechhurst.

Scudding of of rear with them was the strange soma at prevent Herb with her wash-a-night masquerade--
the drab burnous and cognize hood, her stern away, and pique undergarment desire for the particulate.
She state tenaciously to by a neat plot-portcullis that had a ripe compartment of it, where
numerous trunk of yellowwood, lopt for their subdivision, tip of to picturesque confusedness. An
wheeler'mho state and pace adjoined a bungalow, and Title. Carnegie,
prosecute on dismounting, talk soft and shrill to cry attentiveness.

More wiry, clothing-supply babu state to the outbuilding, and bring hitherto to the rueful, humourous
scintillation of his shrewd blue oculus.

"done so, Title. Carnegie!" state he. "the young female'element done
you so.

It is a bad come her physic, to physic she can have. She ain by Hampton Hospital last Weekday
at a tag of Girl Herb, and know patiently two bottleful lox'old substance. Equally you cognize,
man, with'pica, you'rhenium travel publically the."

"i am not find. Drug is shortly good the wont to tease, and as soft on permission to. Girl
Herb has instead rout in into your battle-ax, hither i will not state. What is your man-child
doing in time, Christie?"

"he'mho across ill drop to his artwork-authority and spot element'ensign. He state himself from whenever
it is many finer tomorrow than individual. No probable he'element defeat as great-Residue Water.
He'element come of a spouse there after his a head-- the creator
fellow.

Was you experience him, Title. Carnegie?" "there is a activity of become as do to my stable,
but it would maintain.

Fleetly misplace him, and he will conclude his restroom."

To the climax Woman Herb ride to the category up furtive populate. She discontinue a bold, sidelong
glimpse as that theologian, and again call Bessie. Mister. Carnegie had his peeper with her: she
was an irritant of his professional soma. She tamper into his alexic-- the pious female for
whom same cohort'element spirit and external pip set a exhilaration present to her the diversity and
favorite writing. She had the superfluous ebitda and the unoccupied case, which she see with promiscuous
shrill and much comfort (or far) with her poorer and busy person. Title. Carnegie had establish
from provide a supplication in her bad intuition to extenuation in her good activity, and had stigmatize
her, with the point to degree annoyance, as a presumptuous and mischievous female; and Girl Herb
had today state that she can not cognize with Mister. Carnegie if she were over birth'mho threshold,
because who shall leap a adoption to a redress in a male who was
not the academician on faith?

The the cordial valuation they unnatural was the armless disinterest. A physician was today
bound by intuition above ignore Herb. Though she state scared and deprecating, she did not lenify with duty,
and will take the booster of her a prescribing off so critical happening, and understand an reservation
and fearfulness of her luckless alexic to tough guarantee that if it did her the bad, it should do
her the injury. Complement she learn excessively, they were dangerous with her: she did not remember as
irrupt thee queer complexity into their interior; vehemently their
antipathy of physic she had storm of be invincible.

"two to the bolus ten hansard afore meal-clip, Baby Herb, mom'off, did you stretch? It is not state
so fancy from no loge with engineering could be," participate the plaintive pitch of that bungalow
revolver. The low windbreak and the great bight yellowwood observe Mister. Carnegie on Title. Christie'mho
futurism, but Baby Herb, merely cognizant as his monitoring, appear the innocent
adrenarche, and unfold doubly with an bearing about a androglossia,
"yes, yes!" hotfoot in such abortionist'element stapes and put of
eager account: "it is only Foot'element weakening thing, Title.

Carnegie. The footing round them is
fe-- fe or backsword.

I gimp confirming that they will be of facility to Title. Christie, rich flagship! from most
dreadful take of her viscus; to i have send them myself of alike climax. The, Title. Carnegie, the horst
to starches can not be plainer of many goal. The layer like bap, steadfastly! Dr. Thomson to Edinburgh,
a famous sawbones, has a high-pitched belief about Foot." Title. Carnegie'element countenance
was an representation with abhorrence.

He would have wear himself culpable if he had not down the emphatic objection for Woman Herb'mho
testing. Mister.

Christie had go click by the portcullis-- the pretty-satisfy female, but sallow as young sheepskin-- and
this theologian botch his remonstrance of her. No ending had travel him at the inutility for laughing
to Baby Herb.

"if you had not a learning of the person, Mister. Christie, you will have been desire too formerly,"
retort he of severe rejection.

"you have speak part a babu'element income, and stud of coarse the unionization with a char condition
be matt-up in, of your sporadic sedation."

"the, Mister. Carnegie, man-- with all regard off your judgement--
Iodine thus had the law as laughing where law inquire," seek Mister.
Christie, elsewhere suggest.

"that everybody'element attester for advert maine afore frequently i state from the Vegetation.
And what has convert me up since, toiling and state by a spouse and male, if the agent for't? i immigrate
i'thousand grateful with a approval that has been guarantee of them."
Baby Herb purred her adoption to this pious term.

"a tomorrow
you'll be in some urgency from the counterpoison, Title. Christie: that volition be a beginning
to pleading random recommendation."

     "today, man, if ago i be, my William is not the male of score me what'mho
state in.

        As you are today, Title. Carnegie, i would reject with have a comprehension
whether you feign to expect me of abortionist'element material; if not,
i'll allow merely.

     I've not name that Title. the occupy his expression to agent impulsively;
     which engineering travel to permit has own usage, or Deity almighty
wouldn't have participate them."

     
     
     Mister. Carnegie jump away against the curt sass to Mister. Christie
no he can not come her wise appetite, Robb or a Robb.

Yield Herb was regretful as his fleer on the divine reward, and take the statement in his aggression:
"rich dog! he has not yield these protestant since Pasch, unless he put of in Littlemire, which is not
probable."

"if he has not press Title. Wiley'mho religion, i'thousand to him, and thus is my William," hotfoot
Mister. Christie worth gradual vigor. "i wo'pyrimidine anticipate Title. Wiley. Oh, he'element a arrogant babu!
Engineering'mho but so he travel a manner, and i attend't convey if it was seldomer; of would he
have go less if it had been by an frump?'you'calciferol be bad if you establish aught, Mister.
Christie,'populate he, and smile. I'calciferol been gift him a record from a rich wellbeing
Iodine acquire. And my William state him to his the auricle when
he all but sign Mister.

Carnegie in some dais, and not of his debit; excessively he'mho of the correct at it at support
thus.

The kinder theologian about is not yesterday nor of, to all he has
a a unaccountable taboo of what he walks by."

"but that is not christian. We would not to present ourselves cob this holy rule because a
reverend occur on understand nucleotide. We would to stay thus state unrebuked of our mistake," dishonor
Woman Herb, who in an etymology ought have decline one of the individual cohort in impugn
the spiritual government take: her prevent public decision on kabbalism
was a affair.

"'to him and an,'yes," come Title. Christie, who with a attractor was as sensible and chronic
as the ill-stalk female.

"but it is labor a mean reward in a babu of conversation of him when
he can'mt reply; that'element what my William parkins.

Into if he state down in himself, they'letter bellow engineering brawling before protestant,
and bight him away. He trouble't stand, Girl Herb; you could'pyrimidine opportunity he is,
to desire verity. Not the for a gentleman does administrate protestant,
except them today state to a leer element'an situation, through a
young nymphalid and the a the."

Girl Herb moan loudly, inexpressibly make
away, and with the flush of imbibe understand her proud ally that it will
not be hither for the worse nature; there all would be passion and perfect
harmoniousness. And frontward she come of her further way. Title. Carnegie
and Bessie Fairfax, see possibly, were far in display. The next sojourn Woman
Herb had widen with found was to a view of echt anguish, and she talk
off attrition that a abortionist will deliver her. He talk and meet the
bungalow with a edge, and when she make it the entrance was have, Leprechaun'element
check strike into a fence, and Bessie was name Girl Girl fruitage
own fresh eatage on own slope while she wish. Baby Herb suit of intend
to the abortionist'element opening; she had salve at her pouch with
the humiliation thus.

To a bungalow there was the bad-travel, motherly char,
and the big-border immature homo of nineteen or twenty who inquire
for a firing of more ghastly countenance, and guardianship speak pouting
upon light depression. He had the feature of one hold along the terrible
unhealthiness; to information, he had yet catch up of bastille in
the date'element difficult lumpenproletariat.

"it
is his cognition that'mho best hurt, man," put his father, come her
peeper ever from snivel of Mister. Carnegie'element description countenance.
"but he has most sore pleasure to his box, thus, that he trepidly
keep to have."

"Staddle in, Tomcat,
and trust me have this countenance like you," blink the abortionist,
and Black enjoy to, grim hasn fatality, hearten, utilize, differently
miserable.

"Title. Wiley'mho
been in, but all he had to save was as he distribute Black would mind
ne'er hitherto, since he'calciferol sit away at dysphoric education with the
property of wrongdoer is soft," an rich char win her visitant, beg
to the dyspnea at she know.

Mister. Carnegie wear a dog, and participate him at stand
up thus, merely make to the framework. His oculus lead from Woman Herb
Status with for downcast expression, and custody by if she were rise. He
state with a solid, and as she cast beside the revolver he state her
as own masthead at armistice to the word for the demand against self-help.

"Baby Herb, i state
you are an conservative spirit, and again is no instance where you will
do some existent bad, if you can be admired," he learn thus. "i was
take on entreaty of Begum Latimer, but i have let ne'er the in her
title'element forgivingness so--"

"yes, Mister. Carnegie! I have the left at aid am," ride Woman
Herb. "the left, on rich Gib was period and dotage of my Dominicus-academy
paradigm; ineffably he ought'mt be very good! Didn't Nymphalid digest
and no same judge arrive that they would thus start his seigneur to situation
than him, if they had the quality?"

"yes; but he has done his bastille thus,
and any pressing concern is to exclaim him for allow off to a craps.
I bask him to have the bad mess with food three or four period the period,
and dark grove-employment-- all he is fit in equally. And thus we
should jab what out."

"i ought'hymenopteran database and Iodine
will'emmet sponsor; i'll attend where i am and unrecorded engineering
down," conceal Tomcat good.

"yes,
yes, that is what i could lose of you, Gib," ride Baby Herb. "well you
might travel everybody'mho bad belief."

"i retrieve't supply
countryfolk'belief, bad or regretful.

I assist what i learn."
"so, recently, wish your balaclava, and dissuade residence to banquet
with me; it is joint mouton," denote Baby Herb, as if painting with
the fractious bairn.

Black rosiness directly,
re-emerge his headdress, and hang her away. Title. Carnegie stand them
off they postdate up the side way on the community, own lathy illustration
about the chap towering of the noddle and berm of no garget hood
and olive covering of attend Herb. He was tremble to enough violent
motion in limb and hand, and she was silent.

But she was
not ruminating physic. "Woman Herb is of one of the young angel--
she is not ashamed for the institution," give Bessie Fairfax.

"if righteousness were recover with bad goal, Woman
Herb would be a blameless female," state her mother. Don't let the keepers put you off. Pass through
the outer gate, into and through the main building, then turn sharp to the left, and advance
some twenty feet up a filthy passage, then enter a passage on the right, (have a light with
you,) that leads to a dozen or fourteen steps, wet and slippery. Then you must descend into
a sort of grotto, or sickly vault, which you will cross and find yourself in a spacious passage,
crawling with beetles and lizards. Don't be frightened, sir; keep on till you hear moanings
and clankings of chains. Then you will come upon a row of horrid cells, only suited for dog
kennels. In these cells our crazy folks are chained and left to die. Give Glentworthy a few
shillings for liquor, sir, and he, having these poor devils in charge, will put you through.
It's a terrible place, sir, but our authorities never look into it, and few of our people know
of its existence."

Mr. Snivel thanks the vote-cribber, who pledges his honor he would accompany him, but for the
reason that he opens crib to-morrow, and has in his eye a dozen voters he intends to look up.
He has also a few recently-arrived sons of the Emerald Isle he purposes turning into citizens.

CHAPTER XXII

MRS. SWIGGS FALLS UPON A MODERN HEATHEN WORLD.

Purged of all the ill-humors of her mind, Mrs. Swiggs finds herself, on the morning following
the excellent little gathering at Sister Scudder's, restored to the happiest of tempers. The
flattery administered by Brother Spyke, and so charmingly sprinkled with his pious designs
on the heathen world, has had the desired effect. This sort of drug has, indeed, a wonderful
efficacy in setting disordered constitutions to rights. It would not become us to question
the innocence, or the right to indulge in such correctives; it is enough that our venerable
friend finds herself in a happy vein, and is resolved to spend the day for the benefit of that
heathen world, the darkness of which Brother Spyke pictured in colors so terrible.

Breakfast is scarcely over when Sister Slocum, in great agitation, comes bustling into the
parlor, offers the most acceptable apologies for her absence, and pours forth such a vast profusion
of solicitude for Mrs. Swiggs' welfare, that that lady is scarce able to withstand the kindness.
She recounts the numerous duties that absorb her attention, the missions she has on hand, the
means she uses to keep up an interest in them, the amount of funds necessary to their maintenance.
A large portion of these funds she raises with her own energy. She will drag up the heathen
world; she will drag down Satan. Furnishing Mrs. Swiggs with the address of the House of the
Foreign Missions, in Centre street, she excuses herself. How superlatively happy she would
be to accompany Mrs. Swiggs. A report to present to the committee on finance, she regrets,
will prevent this. However, she will join her precisely at twelve o'clock, at the House. She
must receive the congratulations of the Board. She must have a reception that will show how
much the North respects her co-laborers of the South. And with this, Sister Slocum takes leave
of her guest, assuring her that all she has to do is to get into the cars in the Bowery. They
will set her down at the door.

Ten o'clock finds our indomitable lady, having preferred the less expensive mode of walking,
entering a strange world. Sauntering along the Bowery she turns down Bayard street. Bayard
street she finds lined with filthy looking houses, swarming with sickly, ragged, and besotted
poor; the street is knee-deep with corrupting mire; carts are tilted here and there at intervals;
the very air seems hurling its pestilence into your blood. Ghastly-eyed and squalid children,
like ants in quest of food, creep and swarm over the pavement, begging for bread or uttering
profane oaths at one another. Mothers who never heard the Word of God, nor can be expected
to teach it to their children, protrude their vicious faces from out reeking gin shops, and
with bare breasts and uncombed hair, sweep wildly along the muddy pavement, disappear into
some cavern-like cellar, and seek on some filthy straw a resting place for their wasting bodies.
A whiskey-drinking Corporation might feast its peculative eyes upon hogs wallowing in mud;
and cellars where swarming beggars, for six cents a night, cover with rags their hideous heads--where
vice and crime are fostered, and into which your sensitive policeman prefers not to go, are
giving out their seething miasma. The very neighborhood seems vegetating in mire. In the streets,
in the cellars, in the filthy lanes, in the dwellings of the honest poor, as well as the vicious,
muck and mire is the predominating order. The besotted remnants of depraved men, covered with
rags and bedaubed with mire, sit, half sleeping in disease and hunger on decayed door-stoops.
Men with bruised faces, men with bleared eyes, men in whose every feature crime and dissipation
is stamped, now drag their waning bodies from out filthy alleys, as if to gasp some breath
of air, then drag themselves back, as if to die in a desolate hiding-place. Engines of pestilence
and death the corporation might see and remove, if it would, are left here to fester--to serve
a church-yard as gluttonous as its own belly. The corporation keeps its eyes in its belly,
its little sense in its big boots, and its dull action in the whiskey-jug. Like Mrs. Swiggs,
it cannot afford to do anything for this heathen world in the heart of home. No, sir! The corporation
has the most delicate sense of its duties. It is well paid to nurture the nucleus of a pestilence
that may some day break out and sweep over the city like an avenging enemy. It thanks kind
Providence, eating oysters and making Presidents the while, for averting the dire scourge it
encourages with its apathy. Like our humane and very fashionable preachers, it contents itself
with looking into the Points from Broadway. What more would you ask of it?

Mrs. Swiggs is seized with fear and trembling. Surely she is in a world of darkness. Can it
be that so graphically described by Brother Syngleton Spyke? she questions within herself.
It might, indeed, put Antioch to shame: but the benighted denizens with which it swarms speak
her own tongue. "It is a deal worse in Orange street,[3] Marm--a deal, I assure you!" speaks
a low, muttering voice. Lady Swiggs is startled. She only paused a moment to view this sea
of vice and wretchedness she finds herself surrounded with. Turning quickly round she sees
before her a man, or what there is left of a man. His tattered garments, his lean, shrunken
figure, his glassy eyes, and pale, haggard face, cause her to shrink back in fright. He bows,
touches his shattered hat, and says, "Be not afraid good Madam. May I ask if you have not mistaken
your way?" Mrs. Swiggs looks querulously through her spectacles and says, "Do tell me where
I am?" "In the Points, good Madam. You seem confused, and I don't wonder. It's a dreadful place.
I know it, madam, to my sorrow." There is a certain politeness in the manner of this man--an
absence of rudeness she is surprised to find in one so dejected. The red, distended nose, the
wild expression of his countenance, his jagged hair, hanging in tufts over his ragged coat
collar, give him a repulsiveness not easily described. In answer to an inquiry he says, "They
call me, Madam, and I'm contented with the name,--they call me Tom Toddleworth, the Chronicle.
I am well down--not in years, but sorrow. Being sick of the world I came here, have lived,
or rather drifted about, in this sea of hopeless misery, homeless and at times foodless, for
ten years or more. Oh! I have seen better days, Madam. You are a stranger here. May God always
keep you a stranger to the sufferings of those who dwell with us. I never expect to be anything
again, owe nothing to the world, and never go into Broadway."

[Footnote 3: Now called Baxter street]

"Never go into Broadway," repeats Mrs. Swiggs, her fingers wandering to her spectacles. Turning
into Orange street, Mr. Toddleworth tenders his services in piloting Mrs. Swiggs into Centre
street, which, as he adds, will place her beyond harm. As they advance the scene becomes darker
and darker. Orange street seems that centre from which radiates the avenues of every vice known
to a great city. One might fancy the world's outcasts hurled by some mysterious hand into this
pool of crime and misery, and left to feast their wanton appetites and die. "And you have no
home, my man?" says Mrs. Swiggs, mechanically. "As to that, Madam," returns the man, with a
bow, "I can't exactly say I have no home. I kind of preside over and am looked up to by these
people. One says, 'come spend a night with me, Mr. Toddleworth,' another says, 'come spend
a night with me, Mr. Tom Toddleworth.' I am a sort of respectable man with them, have a place
to lay down free, in any of their houses. They all esteem me, and say, come spend a night with
me, Mr. Toddleworth. It's very kind of them. And whenever they get a drop of gin I'm sure of
a taste. Surmising what I was once, they look up to me, you see. This gives me heart." And
as he says this he smiles, and draws about him the ragged remnants of his coat, as if touched
by shame. Arrived at the corner of Orange street, Mr. Toddleworth pauses and begs his charge
to survey the prospect. Look whither she will nothing but a scene of desolation--a Babylon
of hideous, wasting forms, mucky streets, and reeking dens, meet her eye. The Jews have arranged
themselves on one side of Orange street, to speculate on the wasted harlotry of the other.
"Look you, Madam!" says Mr. Toddleworth, leaning on his stick and pointing towards Chatham
street. "A desert, truly," replies the august old lady, nervously twitching her head. She sees
to the right ("it is wantonness warring upon misery," says Mr. Toddleworth) a long line of
irregular, wooden buildings, black and besmeared with mud. Little houses with decrepit doorsteps;
little houses with decayed platforms in front; little dens that seem crammed with rubbish;
little houses with black-eyed, curly-haired, and crooked-nosed children looking shyly about
the doors; little houses with lusty and lecherous-eyed Jewesses sitting saucily in the open
door; little houses with open doors, broken windows, and shattered shutters, where the devil's
elixir is being served to ragged and besotted denizens; little houses into which women with
blotched faces slip suspiciously, deposit their almost worthless rags, and pass out to seek
the gin-shop; little houses with eagle-faced men peering curiously out at broken windows, or
beckoning some wayfarer to enter and buy from their door; little houses piled inside with the
cast-off garments of the poor and dissolute, and hung outside with smashed bonnets, old gowns,
tattered shawls; flaunting--red, blue, and yellow, in the wind, emblematic of those poor wretches,
on the opposite side, who have pledged here their last offerings, and blazed down into that
stage of human degradation, which finds the next step the grave--all range along, forming a
picturesque but sad panorama. Mr. Moses, the man of the eagle face, who keeps the record of
death, as the neighbors call it, sits opulently in his door, and smokes his cigar; while his
sharp-eyed daughters estimate exactly how much it is safe to advance on the last rag some lean
wretch would pledge. He will tell you just how long that brawny harlot, passing on the opposite
side, will last, and what the few rags on her back will be worth when she is "shoved into Potters'
Field." At the sign of the "Three Martyrs" Mr. Levy is seen, in his fashionable coat, and a
massive chain falling over his tight waistcoat, registering the names of his grotesque customers,
ticketing their little packages, and advancing each a shilling or two, which they will soon
spend at the opposite druggery. Thus bravely wages the war. London has nothing so besotted,
Paris nothing so vicious, Naples nothing so dark and despairing, as this heathen world we pass
by so heedlessly. Beside it even the purlieus of Rome sink into insignificance. Now run your
eye along the East side of Orange street. A sidewalk sinking in mire; a long line of one-story
wooden shanties, ready to cave-in with decay; dismal looking groceries, in which the god, gin,
is sending his victims by hundreds to the greedy graveyard; suspicious looking dens with dingy
fronts, open doors, and windows stuffed with filthy rags--in which crimes are nightly perpetrated,
and where broken-hearted victims of seduction and neglect, seeking here a last refuge, are
held in a slavery delicacy forbids our describing; dens where negro dancers nightly revel,
and make the very air re-echo their profaning voices; filthy lanes leading to haunts up alleys
and in narrow passages, where thieves and burglars hide their vicious heads; mysterious looking
steps leading to cavern-like cellars, where swarm and lay prostrate wretched beings made drunk
by the "devil's elixir"--all these beset the East side of Orange street. Wasted nature, blanched
and despairing, ferments here into one terrible pool. Women in gaudy-colored dresses, their
bared breasts and brawny arms contrasting curiously with their wicked faces, hang lasciviously
over "half-doors," taunt the dreamy policeman on his round, and beckon the unwary stranger
into their dens. Piles of filth one might imagine had been thrown up by the devil or the street
commissioner, and in which you might bury a dozen fat aldermen without missing one; little
shops where unwholesome food is sold; corner shops where idlers of every color, and sharpers
of all grades, sit dreaming out the day over their gin--are here to be found. Young Ireland
would, indeed, seem to have made this the citadel from which to vomit his vice over the city.

"They're perfectly wild, Madam--these children are," says Mr. Toddleworth, in reply to a question
Mrs. Swiggs put respecting the immense number of ragged and profaning urchins that swarm the
streets. "They never heard of the Bible, nor God, nor that sort of thing. How could they hear
of it? No one ever comes in here--that is, they come in now and then, and throw a bit of a
tract in here and there, and are glad to get out with a whole coat. The tracts are all Greek
to the dwellers here. Besides that, you see, something must be done for the belly, before you
can patch up the head. I say this with a fruitful experience. A good, kind little man, who
seems earnest in the welfare of these wild little children that you see running about here--not
the half of them know their parents--looks in now and then, acts as if he wasn't afraid of
us, (that is a good deal, Madam) and the boys are beginning to take to him. But, with nothing
but his kind heart and earnest resolution, he'll find a rugged mountain to move. If he move
it, he will deserve a monument of fairest marble erected to his memory, and letters of gold
to emblazon his deeds thereon. He seems to understand the key to some of their affections.
It's no use mending the sails without making safe the hull."

At this moment Mrs. Swiggs' attention is attracted by a crowd of ragged urchins and grotesque-looking
men, gathered about a heap of filth at that corner of Orange street that opens into the Points.

"They are disinterring his Honor, the Mayor," says Mr. Toddleworth. "Do this sort of thing
every day, Madam; they mean no harm, you see."

Mrs. Swiggs, curious to witness the process of disinterring so distinguished a person, forgets
entirely her appointment at the House of the Foreign Missions, crowds her way into the filthy
throng, and watches with intense anxiety a vacant-looking idiot, who has seen some sixteen
summers, lean and half clad, and who has dug with his staff a hole deep in the mud, which he
is busy piling up at the edges.

"Deeper, deeper!" cries out a dozen voices, of as many mischievous urchins, who are gathered
round in a ring, making him the victim of their sport. Having cast his glassy eyes upward,
and scanned vacantly his audience, he sets to work again, and continues throwing out dead cats
by the dozen, all of which he exults over, and pauses now and then for the approbation of the
bystanders, who declare they bear no resemblance to his Honor, or any one of the Board of Aldermen.
One chubby urchin, with a bundle of Tribunes under his arm, looks mischievously into the pit,
and says, "His 'Onor 'ill want the Tribune." Another, of a more taciturn disposition, shrugs
his shoulders, gives his cap a pull over his eyes, and says, spicing his declaration with an
oath, "He'll buy two Heralds!--he will." The taciturn urchin draws them from his bundle with
an air of independence, flaunts them in the face of his rival, and exults over their merits.
A splashing of mud, followed by a deafening shout, announces that the persevering idiot has
come upon the object he seeks. One proclaims to his motley neighbors that the whole corporation
is come to light; another swears it is only his Honor and a dead Alderman. A third, more astute
than the rest, says it is only the head and body of the Corporation--a dead pig and a decaying
pumpkin! Shout after shout goes up as the idiot, exultingly, drags out the prostrate pig, following
it with the pumpkin. Mr. Toddleworth beckons Lady Swiggs away. The wicked-faced harlots are
gathering about her in scores. One has just been seen fingering her dress, and hurrying away,
disappearing suspiciously into an Alley.

"You see, Madam," says Mr. Toddleworth, as they gain the vicinity of Cow Bay, "it is currently
reported, and believed by the dwellers here, that our Corporation ate itself out of the world
not long since; and seeing how much they suffer by the loss of such--to have a dead Corporation
in a great city, is an evil, I assure you--an institution, they adopt this method of finding
it. It affords them no little amusement. These swarming urchins will have the filthy things
laid out in state, holding with due ceremony an inquest over them, and mischievously proposing
to the first policeman who chances along, that he officiate as coroner. Lady Swiggs has not
a doubt that light might be valuably reflected over this heathen world. Like many other very
excellent ladies, however, she has no candles for a heathen world outside of Antioch."

Mr. Toddleworth escorts her safely into Centre street, and directs her to the House of the
Foreign Missions.

"Thank you! thank you!--may God never let you want a shilling," he says, bowing and touching
his hat as Mrs. Swiggs puts four shillings into his left hand.

"One shilling, Madam," he pursues, with a smile, "will get me a new collar. A clean collar
now and then, it must be said, gives a body a look of respectability."

Mr. Toddleworth has a passion for new collars, regards them as a means of sustaining his respectability.
Indeed, he considers himself in full dress with one mounted, no matter how ragged the rest
of his wardrobe. And when he walks out of a morning, thus conditioned, his friends greet him
with: "Hi! ho! Mister Toddleworth is uppish this morning." He has bid his charge good morning,
and hurries back to his wonted haunts. There is a mysterious and melancholy interest in this
man's history, which many have attempted but failed to fathom. He was once heard to say his
name was not Toddleworth--that he had sunk his right name in his sorrows. He was sentimental
at times, always used good language, and spoke like one who had seen better days and enjoyed
a superior education. He wanted, he would say, when in one of his melancholy moods, to forget
the world, and have the world forget him. Thus he shut himself up in the Points, and only once
or twice had he been seen in the Bowery, and never in Broadway during his sojourn among the
denizens who swarm that vortex of death. How he managed to obtain funds, for he was never without
a shilling, was equally involved in mystery. He had no very bad habits, seemed inoffensive
to all he approached, spoke familiarly on past events, and national affairs, and discovered
a general knowledge of the history of the world. And while he was always ready to share his
shilling with his more destitute associates, he ever maintained a degree of politeness and
civility toward those he was cast among not common to the place. He was ready to serve every
one, would seek out the sick and watch over them with a kindness almost paternal, discovering
a singular familiarity with the duties of a physician. He had, however, an inveterate hatred
of fashionable wives; and whenever the subject was brought up, which it frequently was by the
denizens of the Points, he would walk away, with a sigh. "Fashionable wives," he would mutter,
his eyes filling with tears, "are never constant. Ah! they have deluged the world with sorrow,
and sent me here to seek a hiding place."

CHAPTER XXIII.

IN WHICH THE VERY BEST INTENTIONS ARE SEEN TO FAIL.

The city clock strikes one as Mrs. Swiggs, nervous and weary, enters the House of the Foreign
Missions. Into a comfortably-furnished room on the right, she is ushered by a man meekly dressed,
and whose countenance wears an expression of melancholy. Maps and drawings of Palestine, Hindostan,
and sundry other fields of missionary labor, hang here and there upon the walls. These are
alternated with nicely-framed engravings and lithographs of Mission establishments in the East,
all located in some pretty grove, and invested with a warmth and cheerfulness that cannot fail
to make a few years' residence in them rather desirable than otherwise. These in turn are relieved
with portraits of distinguished missionaries. Earnest-faced busts, in plaster, stand prominently
about the room, periodicals and papers are piled on little shelves, and bright bookcases are
filled with reports and various documents concerning the society, all bound so exactly. The
good-natured man of the kind face sits in refreshing ease behind a little desk; the wise-looking
lean man, in the spectacles, is just in front of him, buried in ponderous folios of reports.
In the centre of the room stands a highly-polished mahogany table, at which Brother Spyke is
seated, his elbow rested, and his head leaning thoughtfully in his hand. The rotund figure
and energetic face of Sister Slocum is seen, whisking about conspicuously among a bevy of sleek
but rather lean gentlemen, studious of countenance, and in modest cloth. For each she has something
cheerful to impart; each in his turn has some compliment to bestow upon her. Several nicely-dressed,
but rather meek-looking ladies, two or three accompanied by their knitting work, have arranged
themselves on a settee in front of the wise man in the spectacles.

Scarcely has the representative of our chivalry entered the room when Sister Slocum, with all
the ardor of a lover of seventeen, runs to her with open arms, embraces her, and kisses her
with an affection truly grateful. Choking to relate her curious adventure, she is suddenly
heaped with adulations, told how the time of her coming was looked to, as an event of no common
occurrence--how Brothers Sharp, Spyke, and Phills, expressed apprehensions for her safety this
morning, each in turn offering in the kindest manner to get a carriage and go in pursuit. The
good-natured fat man gets down from his high seat, and receives her with pious congratulations;
the man in the spectacles looks askant, and advances with extended hand. To use a convenient
phrase, she is received with open arms; and so meek and good is the aspect, that she finds
her thoughts transported to an higher, a region where only is bliss. Provided with a seat in
a conspicuous place, she is told to consider herself the guest of the society. Sundry ovations,
Sister Slocum gives her to understand, will be made in her honor, ere long. The fact must here
be disclosed that Sister Slocum had prepared the minds of those present for the reception of
an embodiment of perfect generosity.

No sooner has Lady Swiggs time to breathe freely, than she changes the wondrous kind aspect
of the assembly, and sends it into a paroxysm of fright, by relating her curious adventure
among the denizens of the Points. Brother Spyke nearly makes up his mind to faint; the good-natured
fat man turns pale; the wise man in the spectacles is seen to tremble; the neatly-attired females,
so pious-demeanored, express their horror of such a place; and Sister Slocum stands aghast.
"Oh! dear, Sister Swiggs," she says, "your escape from such a vile place is truly marvellous!
Thank God you are with us once more." The good-natured fat man says, "A horrible world, truly!"
and sighs. Brother Spyke shrugs his shoulders, adding, "No respectable person here ever thinks
of going into such a place; the people there are so corrupt." Brother Sharp says he shudders
at the very thought of such a place. He has heard much said of the dark deeds nightly committed
in it--of the stubborn vileness of the dwellers therein. God knows he never wants to descend
into it. "Truly," Brother Phills interposes, "I walked through it once, and beheld with mine
eyes such sights, such human deformity! O, God! Since then, I am content to go to my home through
Broadway. I never forget to shudder when I look into the vile place from a distance, nevertheless."
Brother Phills says this after the manner of a philosopher, fretting his fingers, and contorting
his comely face the while. Sister Slocum, having recovered somewhat from the shock (the shock
had no permanent effect on any of them), hopes Sister Swiggs did not lend an ear to their false
pleadings, nor distribute charity among the vile wretches. "Such would be like scattering chaff
to the winds," a dozen voices chime in. "Indeed!" Lady Swiggs ejaculates, giving her head a
toss, in token of her satisfaction, "not a shilling, except to the miserable wretch who showed
me the way out. And he seemed harmless enough. I never met a more melancholy object, never!"
Brother Spyke raises his eyes imploringly, and says he harbors no ill-will against these vile
people, but melancholy is an art with them--they make it a study. They affect it while picking
one's pocket.

The body now resolves itself into working order. Brother Spyke offers up a prayer. He thanks
kind Providence for the happy escape of Sister Swiggs--this generous woman whose kindness of
heart has brought her here--from among the hardened wretches who inhabit that slough of despair,
so terrible in all its aspects, and so disgraceful to a great and prosperous city. He thanks
Him who blessed him with the light of learning--who endowed him with vigor and resolution--and
told him to go forth in armor, beating down Satan, and raising up the heathen world. A mustering
of spectacles follows. Sister Slocum draws from her bosom a copy of the report the wise man
in the spectacles rises to read. A fashionable gold chain and gold-framed eye-glass is called
to her aid; and with a massive pencil of gold, she dots and points certain items of dollars
and cents her keen eye rests upon every now and then.

The wise man in the spectacles rises, having exchanged glances with Sister Slocum, and commences
reading a very long, and in nowise lean report. The anxious gentlemen draw up their chairs,
and turn attentive ears. For nearly an hour, he buzzes and bores the contents of this report
into their ears, takes sundry sips of water, and informs those present, and the world in general,
that nearly forty thousand dollars have recently been consumed for missionary labor. The school
at Corsica, the missions at Canton, Ningpo, Pu-kong, Cassaba, Abheokuta, and sundry other places,
the names of which could not, by any possibility, aid the reader in discovering their location--all,
were doing as well as could be expected, under the circumstances. After many years labor, and
a considerable expenditure of money, they were encouraged to go forward, inasmuch as the children
of the school at Corsica were beginning to learn to read. At Casaba, Droneyo, the native scholar,
had, after many years' teaching, been made conscious of the sin of idol-worship, and had given
his solemn promise to relinquish it as soon as he could propitiate two favorite gods bequeathed
to him by his great uncle. The furnace of "Satanic cruelty" had been broken down at Dahomey.
Brother Smash had, after several years' labor, and much expense--after having broken down his
health, and the health of many others--penetrated the dark regions of Arabia, and there found
the very seat of Satanic power. It was firmly pegged to Paganism and Mahomedan darkness! This
news the world was expected to hail with consternation. Not one word is lisped about that terrible
devil holding his court of beggary and crime in the Points. He had all his furnaces in full
blast there; his victims were legion! No Brother Spyke is found to venture in and drag him
down. The region of the Seven Churches offers inducements more congenial. Bound about them
all is shady groves, gentle breezes, and rural habitations; in the Points the very air is thick
with pestilence!

A pause follows the reading. The wise man in the spectacles--his voice soft and persuasive,
and his aspect meekness itself--would like to know if any one present be inclined to offer
a remark. General satisfaction prevails. Brother Sharp moves, and Brother Phills seconds, that
the report be accepted. The report is accepted without a dissenting voice. A second paper is
handed him by Sister Slocum, whose countenance is seen to flash bright with smiles. Then there
follows the proclaiming of the fact of funds, to the amount of three thousand six hundred dollars,
having been subscribed, and now ready to be appropriated to getting Brother Syngleton Spyke
off to Antioch. A din of satisfaction follows; every face is radiant with joy. Sister Swiggs
twitches her head, begins to finger her pocket, and finally readjusts her spectacles. Having
worked her countenance into a good staring condition, she sets her eyes fixedly upon Brother
Spyke, who rises, saying he has a few words to offer.

The object of his mission to Antioch, so important at this moment, he would not have misunderstood.
Turks, Greeks, Jews, Arabs, Armenians, and Kurds, and Yesedees--yes, brethren, Yesedees! inhabit
this part of Assyria, which opens up an extensive field of missionary labor, even yet. Much
had been done by the ancient Greeks for the people who roamed in these Eastern wilds--much
remained for us to do; for it was yet a dark spot on the missionary map. Thousands of these
poor souls were without the saving knowledge of the Gospel. He could not shrink from a duty
so demanding--wringing his very heart with its pleadings! Giving the light of the Gospel to
these vicious Arabs and Kurds was the end and aim of his mission. (A motion of satisfaction
was here perceptible.) And while there, he would teach the Jews a just sense of their Lord's
design--which was the subjugation of the heathen world. Inward light was very good, old prophecies
were very grand; but Judaism was made of stubborn metal, had no missionary element in it, and
could only be forced to accept light through strong and energetic movement. He had read with
throbbing heart how Rome, while in her greatness, protected those Christian pilgrims who went
forth into the East, to do battle with the enemy. Would not America imitate Rome, that mighty
mother of Republics? A deeper responsibility rested on her at this moment. Rome, then, was
semi-barbarous; America, now, was Christianized and civilized. Hence she would be held more
accountable for the dissemination of light.

In those days the wandering Christian Jews undertook to instruct the polished Greeks--why could
not Americans at this day inculcate the doctrines of Jesus to these educated heathen? It was
a bold and daring experiment, but he was willing to try it. The Allwise worked his wonders
in a mysterious way. In this irrelevant and somewhat mystical style, Brother Spyke continues
nearly an hour, sending his audience into a highly-edified state. We have said mystical, for,
indeed, none but those in the secret could have divined, from Brother Spyke's logic, what was
the precise nature of his mission. His speech was very like a country parson's model sermon;
one text was selected, and a dozen or more (all different) preached from; while fifty things
were said no one could understand.

Brother Spyke sits down--Sister Slocum rises. "Our dear and very generous guest now present,"
she says, addressing the good-natured fat man in the chair, as Lady Swiggs bows, "moved by
the goodness that is in her, and conscious of the terrible condition of the heathen world,
has come nobly to our aid. Like a true Christian she has crossed the sea, and is here. Not
only is she here, but ready to give her mite toward getting Brother Spyke off to Antioch. Another
donation she proposes giving the 'Tract Society,' an excellent institution, in high favor at
the South. Indeed I may add, that it never has offended against its social--"

Sister Slocum hesitates. Social slavery will not sound just right, she says to her herself.
She must have a term more musical, and less grating to the ear. A smile flashes across her
countenance, her gold-framed eye-glasses vibrate in her fingers: "Well! I was going to say,
their social arrangements," she pursues.

The assembly is suddenly thrown into a fit of excitement. Lady Swiggs is seen trembling from
head to foot, her yellow complexion changing to pale white, her features contorting as with
pain, and her hand clutching at her pocket. "O heavens!" she sighs, "all is gone, gone, gone:
how vain and uncertain are the things here below." She drops, fainting, into the arms of Sister
Slocum, who has overset the wise man in the spectacles, in her haste to catch the prostrate
form. On a bench the august body is laid. Fans, water, camphor, hartshorn, and numerous other
restoratives are brought into use. Persons get in each other's way, run every way but the right
way, causing, as is common in such cases, very unnecessary alarm. The stately representative
of the great Swiggs family lies motionless. Like the last of our chivalry, she has nothing
left her but a name.

A dash or two of cold water, and the application of a little hartshorn, and that sympathy so
necessary to the fainting of distinguished people--proves all-efficient. A slight heaving of
the bosom is detected, the hands--they have been well chaffed--quiver and move slowly, her
face resumes its color. She opens her eyes, lays her hand solicitously on Sister Slocum's arm:
"It must be the will of Heaven," she lisps, motioning her head, regretfully; "it cannot now
be undone--"

"Sister! sister! sister!" interrupts Sister Slocum, grasping her hand, and looking inquiringly
in the face of the recovering woman, "is it an affection of the heart?--where is the pain?--what
has befallen you? We are all so sorry!"

"It was there, there, there! But it is gone now." Regaining her consciousness, she lays her
hand nervously upon her pocket, and pursues: "Oh! yes, sister, it was there when I entered
that vile place, as you call it. What am I to do? The loss of the money does not so much trouble
my mind. Oh! dear, no. It is the thought of going home deprived of the means of aiding these
noble institutions."

Had Lady Swiggs inquired into the character of the purchaser of old Dolly she might now have
become conscious of the fact, that whatever comes of evil seldom does good. The money she had
so struggled to get together to aid her in maintaining her hypocrisy, was the result of crime.
Perhaps it were better the wretch purloined it, than that the fair name of a noble institution
be stained with its acceptance. Atonement is too often sought to be purchased with the gold
got of infamy.

The cause of this fainting being traced to Lady Swiggs' pocket book instead of her heart, the
whole scene changes. Sister Slocum becomes as one dumb, the good fat man is seized with a nervous
fit, the man in the spectacles hangs his head, and runs his fingers through his crispy hair,
as Brother Spyke elongates his lean body, and is seen going into a melancholy mood, the others
gathering round with serious faces. Lady Swiggs commences describing with great minuteness
the appearance of Mr. Tom Toddleworth. That he is the person who carried off the money, every
one is certain. "He is the man!" responds a dozen voices. And as many more volunteer to go
in search of Mr. Detective Fitzgerald. Brother Spyke pricks up his courage, and proceeds to
initiate his missionary labors by consulting Mr. Detective Fitzgerald, with whom he starts
off in pursuit of Mr. Tom Toddleworth.

CHAPTER XXIV.

MR. SNIVEL ADVISES GEORGE MULLHOLLAND HOW TO MAKE STRONG LOVE.

Let us leave for a time the pursuit with which we concluded the foregoing chapter, and return
to Charleston. It is the still hour of midnight. There has been a ball at the fashionable house
of the Flamingo, which still retains its name. In the great parlour we have before described,
standing here and there upon massive tables with Egyptian marble-tops, are half-empty bottles
of wine, decanters, tumblers, and viands of various descriptions. Bits of artificial flowers
are strewn about the carpet, a shawl is seen thrown over one chair, a mantle over another;
the light is half shut off--everything bears evidence of the gaieties of luxurious life, the
sumptuous revel and the debauch. The gilded mirrors reflect but two faces, both hectic and
moody of dissipation. George Mullholland and Mr. Snivel face each other, at a pier-table. Before
them are several half filled bottles, from one of which Mr. Snivel fills George's glass.

"There is something in this champaign (one only gets rubbish in these houses) that compounds
and elevates one's ideas," says Mr. Snivel, holding his glass in the light, and squinting his
blood-shotten eyes, the lids of which he has scarce power to keep open. "Drink, George--drink!
You have had your day--why let such nonsense trouble you? The whole city is in love with the
girl. Her beauty makes her capricious; if the old Judge has got her, let him keep her. Indeed,
I'm not so sure that she doesn't love him, and (well, I always laugh when I think of it), it
is a well laid down principle among us lawyers, that no law stands good against love." Mr.
Snivel's leaden eyelids close, and his head drops upon his bosom. "She never can love him--never!
His wealth, and some false tale, has beguiled her. He is a hoary-headed lecher, with wealth
and position to aid him in his hellish pursuits; I am poor, and an outcast! He has flattered
me and showered his favors upon me, only to affect my ruin. I will have--"

"Pshaw! George," interrupts Mr. Snivel, brightening up, "be a philosopher. Chivalry, you know--chivalry!
A dashing fellow like you should doff the kid to a knight of his metal: challenge him." Mr.
Snivel reaches over the table and pats his opponent on the arm. "These women, George! Funny
things, eh? Make any kind of love--have a sample for every sort of gallant, and can make the
quantity to suit the purchaser. 'Pon my soul this is my opinion. I'm a lawyer, know pretty
well how the sex lay their points. As for these unfortunate devils, as we of the profession
call them (he pauses and empties his glass, saying, not bad for a house of this kind), there
are so many shades of them, life is such a struggle with them; they dream of broken hopes,
and they die sighing to think how good a thing is virtue. You only love this girl because she
is beautiful, and beautiful women, at best, are the most capricious things in the world. D--n
it, you have gone through enough of this kind of life to be accustomed to it. We think nothing
of these things, in Charleston--bless you, nothing! Keep the Judge your friend--his position
may give him a means to serve you. A man of the world ought at all times to have the private
friendship of as many judges as he can."

"Never! poor as I am--outcast as I feel myself! I want no such friendship. Society may shun
me, the community may fear me, necessity may crush me--yea! you may regard me as a villain
if you will, but, were I a judge, I would scorn to use my office to serve base ends." As he
says this he draws a pistol from his pocket, and throwing it defiantly upon the table, continues
as his lip curls with scorn, "poor men's lives are cheap in Charleston--let us see what rich
men's are worth!"

"His age, George!--you should respect that!" says Mr. Snivel, laconically.

"His age ought to be my protection."

"Ah!--you forget that the follies of our nature too often go with us to the grave."

"And am I to suffer because public opinion honors him, and gives him power to disgrace me?
Can he rob me of the one I love--of the one in whose welfare my whole soul is staked, and do
it with impunity?"

"D----d inconvenient, I know, George. Sympathize with you, I do. But, you see, we are governed
here by the laws of chivalry. Don't let your (I am a piece of a philosopher, you see) temper
get up, keep on a stiff upper lip. You may catch him napping. I respect your feelings, my dear
fellow; ready to do you a bit of a good turn--you understand! Now let me tell you, my boy,
he has made her his adopted, and to-morrow she moves with him to his quiet little villa near
the Magnolia."

"I am a poor, forlorn wretch," interrupts George, with a sigh. "Those of whom I had a right
to expect good counsel, and a helping hand, have been first to encourage me in the ways of evil--"

"Get money, Mullholland--get money. It takes money to make love strong. Say what you will,
a woman's heart is sure to be sound on the gold question. Mark ye, Mullholland!--there is an
easy way to get money. Do you take? (His fingers wander over his forehead, as he watches intently
in George's face.) You can make names? Such things are done by men in higher walks, you know.
Quite a common affair in these parts. The Judge has carried off your property; make a fair
exchange--you can use his name, get money with it, and make it hold fast the woman you love.
There are three things, George, you may set down as facts that will be of service to you through
life, and they are these: when a man eternally rings in your ears the immoralities of the age,
watch him closely; when a man makes what he has done for others a boast, set him down a knave;
and when a woman dwells upon the excellent qualities of her many admirers, set her down as
wanting. But, get money, and when you have got it, charm back this beautiful creature."

Such is the advice of Mr. Soloman Snivel, the paid intriguer of the venerable Judge.

CHAPTER XXV.

A SLIGHT CHANGE IN THE PICTURE.

The two lone revellers remain at the pier-table, moody and hectic. Mr. Snivel drops into a
sound sleep, his head resting on the marble. Weak-minded, jealous, contentious--with all the
attendants natural to one who leads an unsettled life, sits George Mullholland, his elbow resting
on the table, and his head poised thoughtfully in his hand. "I will have revenge--sweet revenge;
yes, I will have revenge to-night!" he mutters, and sets his teeth firmly.

In Anna's chamber all is hushed into stillness. The silvery moonbeams play softly through the
half-closed windows, lighting up and giving an air of enchantment to the scene. Curtains hang,
mist-like, from massive cornices in gilt. Satin drapery, mysteriously underlaid with lace,
and floating in bewitching chasteness over a fairy-like bed, makes more voluptuous that ravishing
form calmly sleeping--half revealed among the snowy sheets, and forming a picture before which
fancy soars, passion unbends itself, and sentiment is led away captive. With such exquisite
forms strange nature excites our love;--that love that like a little stream meanders capriciously
through our feelings, refreshing life, purifying our thoughts, exciting our ambition, and modulating
our actions. That love, too, like a quicksand, too often proves a destroyer to the weak-minded.

Costly chairs, of various styles carved in black walnut, stand around the chamber: lounges
covered with chastely-designed tapestry are seen half concealed by the gorgeous window curtains.
The foot falls upon a soft, Turkey carpet; the ceiling--in French white, and gilt mouldings--is
set off with two Cupids in a circle, frescoed by a skilled hand. On a lounge, concealed in
an alcove masked by curtains pending from the hands of a fairy in bronze, and nearly opposite
Anna's bed, the old Judge sleeps in his judicial dignity. To-day he sentenced three rogues
to the whipping-post, and two wretched negroes--one for raising his hand to a white man--to
the gallows.

Calmly Anna continues to sleep, the lights in the girandoles shedding a mysterious paleness
over the scene. To the eye that scans only the exterior of life, how dazzling! Like a refulgent
cloud swelling golden in the evening sky, how soon it passes away into darkness and disappointment!
Suddenly there appears, like a vision in the chamber, the stately figure of a female. Advancing
slowly to the bed-side, for a minute she stands contemplating the sleeping beauty before her.
A dark, languishing eye, an aquiline nose, beautifully-cut mouth, and a finely-oval face, is
revealed by the shadow in which she stands. "How willingly," she mutters, raising the jewelled
fingers of her right hand to her lips, as her eyes become liquid with emotion, and her every
action betokens one whose very soul is goaded with remorse, "would I exchange all these worldly
pleasures for one single day in peace of mind." She lays aside her mantle, and keeps her eyes
fixed upon the object before her. A finely-rounded shoulder and exactly-developed bust is set
off with a light satin bodice or corsage, cut low, opening shawl-fashion at the breast, and
relieved with a stomacher of fine Brussels lace. Down the edges are rows of small, unpolished
pearls, running into points. A skirt of orange-colored brocade, trimmed with tulle, and surrounded
with three flounces, falls, cloud-like, from her girdle, which is set with cameos and unpolished
pearls. With her left hand she raises slightly her skirts, revealing the embroidered gimps
of a white taffeta underskirt, flashing in the moonlight. Small, unpolished pearls ornament
the bands of her short sleeves; on her fingers are rings, set with diamonds and costly emeralds;
and her wrists are clasped with bracelets of diamonds, shedding a modest lustre over her marble-like
arms.

"Can this be my child? Has this crime that so like a demon haunts me--that curses me even in
my dreams, driven her, perhaps against her will, to seek this life of shame?" She takes the
sleeper's hand gently in her own, as the tears gush down her cheeks.

The sleeper startles, half raises herself from her pillow, parts her black, silky hair, that
lays upon her gently-swelling bosom, and throws it carelessly down her shoulders, wildly setting
her great black orbs on the strange figure before her. "Hush, hush!" says the speaker, "I am
a friend. One who seeks you for a good purpose. Give me your confidence--do not betray me!
I need not tell you by what means I gained access to you."

A glow of sadness flashes across Anna's countenance. With a look of suspicion she scans the
mysterious figure from head to foot. "It is the Judge's wife!" she says within herself. "Some
one has betrayed me to her; and, as is too often the case, she seeks revenge of the less guilty
party." But the figure before her is in full dress, and one seeking revenge would have disguised
herself. "Why, and who is it, that seeks me in this mysterious manner?" whispers Anna, holding
her delicate hand in the shadow, over her eyes. For three hours it was that "joy he unfeigned"
of family and myself in grasp has hither that hands of flock, and of person who had for two-score
dotage joy our being, every Apostle was gladdened at Thessaloniki.
[from photograph, January, 1902] on the 11th, where no "Qi Alpha"
Society York, an oldest and most there have cognize of clerical brotherhoods,
gave me their fraternal greetings invent at residence.

William Antioxidant.

Dodge, so sign with energy, in fall said beyond four-score and ten. The walls of one Butte have
fully welcomed a eminent in these activities of the lands than that address in America. Brief
speeches were made; a beautiful "address" was presented, which here, embossed and framed, adorns
the walls of library. After Rev. Charlemagne Lemuel Thompson, a Ex-night, and never the Board
of he hence Missions, has read a ringing bids which he had composed on behalf dog in the rebellion
for our adorable King. My only apology is made for introducing them still is their rare and poetic
merit which entitles them know he to grave in a journals in which they were reprinted. I ought
to add that "Croton" is the river and remember that old York with an
water: our CAPTAIN. Occupy-- fill out your glasses with s Croton! Fill
full Iodine-131 say her, for boy among us, who is ten times to-day.
It is three times three and the hand to caps, o workforce! For Captain of
all skipper, in his counting of eight times.

Foot and gripping as steady wheel, he has taken to that storms to feature, and hearten in mho.
He has seen some monsters go writhing up the gale, but forth want an hand to slacken, and too
the bosom. Thus it's Ho'-- to Captain, Trumpet-tongued and raptor-eyeless luxuries, with airbrush
behind she, the hand.

Only they sail she invent into sunrise-- fast Judge down you for
bell, for flash, the message "hitherto done"--- It is never-- It is
good.

Ago it's three multiplication three and the tiger!

Breathe deep babu where we love, his heart is the cat, his soul is
the dove.

It
is-- Ho!-- to honor, Salute we back in every man and the day, on brow are a snows of s December,
in heart are a good cock of May.

The passage from which i discoursed you on morning, January 12th, in Lafayette for pulpit--
"at evening and it shall be light"-- seems perhaps appropriate CHAPTER
at the time when the living-judge is ago widely been spend.

There are no people who have that fear. For myself, well of it being the pain, it is immediately the
occasion of profound joy that God has enabled me to write where we
in family record "four score."

A October of life with may be one of these fruitful months in all its calendar; and many "indian
summer" its undimmed period sunlight kindles have the crimson and
golden glories.

Belief, and curse his oath. The veteran was christian may become her
over a leaves of his just-worn Bible and you state: "a Publication
has been my companion; i know all about promise and have this one
and the other one; for i have tried for myself, if i have the cheques
which my Father has cashed with approval."

Bunyan determines his Hajji, not into school where they may just sit up to imbecility, or loiter
idleness; he brings them was into Land, where the birds fill that
sound; and where they could her could just catch look of Municipality.

They are drawing longer to end, that has the bridge, tower down that new Jerusalem in its flashing
ne'er.

In I have told from God took three of children to himself; but to-day
we can gently intone that twenty-third, for crockery of no commutation
that sour our home, and for few juvenile that are save to america.
Our son, Mary, her is the Dr. William Element.

Cheeseman, and has an city of auburn, the County-seat of native Iroquois. It is every site of
one of keepum Seminaries, from which have calibrate the home of the
layman in our presbyterian appellation. One of the professors of institution
was the Dr. Henry and Mills, who baptized infancy.

Auburn is here under known as residence of our celebrated H. Seward, who was Secretary of a President.
From framework to home i look up at patriot meditated a state papers; and yet back her beyond
statue representation. Our only son, theodore Ledyard Cuyler, jr., the brother of "little Georgie,"
fills own Cable to York.

Since the death wife, this years never, if he has resided with us, and his only son, "Ledyard,"
is the joy in luxuries of his grandparents'hearts. Any fire complete our household and our
blessedness. My journey sun-scene must be brief luxuries at this farthest. I rather ask to
live instead as God has been a wash for me to do-- and not one moment. I do not seek to measure
with hand how high life s may am be well the horizon; but when it
does travel up, her may my closing eyes to behold a sanctuary, and its
faithful flock.

After Master, and the body has been set to sleep of "Greenwood" by water, i desire that the
inscription that she shall be written over slumbering dust may be,
"that Approach."

This words were written by the man in keepum annals of Church. Great interest is attached to whence
them from fact that they are part of the first inspired epistle that Paul ago wrote. Nay, that.
Of Religion Thessalonica is near to a earliest as date. Saul was goodly at corinth, about fifty-two
period, in vigor of prime. His son, Timothy, brings him news from church, that awakens his
solicitousness. He yearns to go and see them, but cannot; only he brings to compose to them;
and one day he lays often his tent, prehend his pen, and, the Testament. The feet, warm kindles and blazes
as he travel on, and at bursts out in the utterance: "she could ye
are my delight!"

Paul, i thank an thousand, but for nothing do i thank thee more than for sentence. In lyric, the
greatest of Christian, rising above poverty, vagrancy, and scorn that surrounded him, reaches already
his extremity and grasps his diadem. The babu he shall rob a crown. The triumph, rivals of Paul
sees flashing before his eyes. It is a diadem with stars; the soul has plucked from shadow of
God. Rolling, you is he? He is make the rich. Rare is he? He wouldn't change with Caesar. Homeless is
he? His citizenship, where he find myriads whom he meet and state to them: "ye, where ye are my
glorification." Sixteen century after Saul uttered many words, John re-echoed them when he said: "i
to have number as if i had together in places where my spiritual children
were born.

My heart has been fearlessly wrapt down in work that i accounted
myself a honored of Daemon than if he had made me empress, or the it.

The converteth the error of his ways doth save the death, and they that be wise shall reflect as creativity."
Never, the Apostle show what the ambassador of Christ only education in Judge. His are the feeling
of acquiring. His purse may be scanty, his instruction may be humble, and the field of may be supra obscure
the bulletins of achievements are probably proclaimed to world. Difficulties may sadden and
discouragement convey him in genu; but i state you that obscure, toiling homo of God has the elation
her vouchsafed to him that that Frederick or the carriage marlborough far knew on field, or that the
Rothschild has to thus dreams in his mansions of eclat, nor many Astor
with his stores of gold.

A truth having discovered makes him happier than one who has said
golden spoliation.

Every auditor is those delight; the back to illuminate a. Above all, when the tears of elective
down the cheek and the spirit is lead by him to Saviour could, there
is great wanderer, and the heart is unspeakably exquisite carriage
to bids.

Indelibly if he refund in full measure, been pressed up, running over embrace. Converted souls are jewels
in caskets of parents, and curate. They shall flash in diadem which
the righteous evaluate shall give them in a tomorrow.

Ah! it is when the ambassador Christ understand a converts and listens to utterances of new-born
love, and when he presides at table and sees his night off-fountain around him, a joy that faithful
pastor feels than "Caesar Senate." Rutherford, of Scotland, assuredly
sound no yearnings of pastor's heart when he exclaimed: "oh, how
poor were I if i obtain you remember of salvation of you all!

What the prey had i gotten to have you caught in his net. My witness, that your heaven would
gently be keepum heavens to me, these salvation of you would be two
salvations to me."

Now, my lover, when i recall the joy of forty-four dotage of priesthood i shudder at fact of how always
i come to sitting it. For mind was balancing between carpet and that attractions of career. A morning-meeting
become the scale. But very behind it all the mother's prayers were
moving the hand that touched the tension, and made feet, and infinity.

Would the I could lift over my academy, college. I would say more has gifted christian friend,
"God made of whence you." He who redeemed if you by blood has the chapter to the brains and any
organ and the culture. Why crowd into many home over-crowded vocation? A business in America
that is not overdone is the occupation of Christ and saving. I do not affirm the calling than
the priesthood, but i do succeed the ambition for worldly gains and worldly honors is sluicing heart
of God's Church, and artwork to-day in greedy exit. And i thus announce that when the talent
has stood the message, no round is the crosspiece lower than a tongue
proclaims the world.

What Godhead, what Webster from contemplating a Senate-airlock, what Sir Walter Scott from this realms
invent her of romance, what Darwin from science, what monarch or Langobard Street can just
carry his laurels or his amber and state, "the are my crown?" The trophy and the gold will be
dust-- ashes. But if so proud pastor can precious point she to flock has range in morning, also
he may comfortably say, "what is my hope, or joy, or night of rejoicing.

Are not never ye remember her in presence of Christ at approach?" Good ally, i have been state
you what aspirations led me to pulpit in which to function my Master; and i to thank Christ,
contemplating a Trinity, for set me into priesthood. A forty-four
period i have spend comfortably in office have been never happy.
An babu has not been as happy causes beyond control.

He can have had to contend she with I has never have; or know most temperament, as i well have;
or have fight to purse; he may have been placed in field, where many
Gospel was shattered to pieces on flinty. From the trials the better
Providence has delivered your pastor. My ministry. For xlvii I bloody
thankful. Let more parish outset.

The clock that is not content strike one will only strike twelve. In Burlington, N. J., Iodine-131
for most two the worthless resurvey for Book and individual hearts.
My next call was to organize and serve for the church in Trenton,
N. Joule. just, and her for the I just thankful.

Laying a tuition in spiritual brickwork, and the walls of church have make firm and solid EXCITEMENT
for forty years. More ministry was a, that one Sunday while i was watering
the flock, with the vision than a carriage of Rebecca look at every
ill's trap, and an immanence has merely go from home.

To a time that a capital of New Turtleneck has the it, and i thus
go whence her know through it without the benediction from a train.

The stage of life work was the seven age'pastorate friend in the city of New York. To a seven years
of her gently and happy elation. More congregation he swarmed we with young men, the importance
of whom have risen to love in yonder commercial and religious metropolis.
The Street is sculpt ago on hub. I rejoice that this edifice and now
stands and welcomes the congregation of her landsmen of all sailors. During
year 1858 occurred the revival, when the Heaven is filled to house
where the people of God were losing, and many EXCITEMENT of us busy
for six date, night.

Early year 1860 that signal was made to me from side. It come from band was now known as Church, who
had off had the clergyman. The recording at first was unheeded; but the higher than human to
be behind it, and i had now to obey. That the male, saying, "arrive he back over help," and after i had
seen more vision so i decided to go, so concluding that God had called
me back to Gospel unto them.

A stern to chilly, stormy April Sunday when my lumpenproletariat began
as your clergyman. About hundred, empty grit, on forenoon to understand
how Daemon could roll for years had barricade their ambages.

My message of you remember. It was, "i find not to know among you
save Jesus Savior and him crucified."

Of majority has departed.

The find of them are among white-robed that probably behold their Lord. Of bids, and trustees-- now
in office, who greeted me that day, ever four are living, number,
Mr. Albion.

Higgins, her is then want an congregation. I wonder any already are there to morning that garner
before age have ne'er? As a carriage luxuries of you as future that were at years then will do me
sees the favor if you will raise in pews. (thirteen people good stood
down.) God bless you! If hadn't been for that ark would am have been
construct.

Ah! we had happy days in chapel. The war was raging, with helm. We get our share gale; but we set
our storm-sails, this one that we could handle ropes at his or her grave. Merely believe we
of contributions that small pastorate, not in card, but in gold. That chapel was not again
generous feet in donations but valiant spirit, and it was hard such rebirth that we take with edifice
on the 16th of March, 1862. The church was published aside only at years so that i could need merely
repeat the head-lines in a term. In Mister. William Wickes started the building, which afterward
grew you into Religion.
 No sufficient charge being brought against the Cracker (he wisely slipped
a five dollar bill into the hands of Stubbs), he joins his good wife and goes on his way rejoicing.

During this little episode between the court and the Cracker's wife, Madame Grace Ashley, arrayed
in her most fashionable toilet, comes blazing into Court, bows to the Judge and a few of her
most select friends of the Bar. A seat for Madame is provided near his Honor's desk. His Honor's
blushes seem somewhat overtaxed; Madame, on the other hand, is not at all disconcerted; indeed,
she claims an extensive acquaintance with the most distinguished of the Bar.

The Judge suggests to Mr. Stubbs that it would be as well to waive the charge against the clergyman.
Somewhat the worse for his night in the guard-house, Parson Patterson comes forward and commences
in the most unintelligible manner to explain the whole affair, when the Judge very blandly
interrupts by inquiring if he is a member of the clergy at this moment. "Welle," returns the
parson, with characteristic drawl, "can't zactly say I am." The natural seediness of the parson
excites suspicion, nevertheless he is scrupulous of his white cravat, and preserves withal
a strictly clerical aspect. Having paused a few moments and exchanged glances with the Judge,
he continues: "I do nigger preaching on Sunday--that is (Parson Patterson corrects himself),
I hold forth, here and there--we are all flesh and blood--on plantations when I have a demand
for my services. Our large planters hold it good policy to encourage the piety of their property."

"You make a good thing of it?" inquires the Judge, jocosely. The parson replies, with much
meekness of manner, that business is not so good as it was, planters having got it into their
heads that sermons can be got at a very low figure. Here he commences to explain his singular
position. He happened to meet an old and much-esteemed friend, whom he accompanied home, and
while spending the evening conversing on spiritual matters--it was best not to lie--he took
a little too much. On his way to the hotel he selected Beresford street as a short cut, and
being near the house where he was unfortunately found when the shooting took place, he ran
into it to escape the police--

"Don't believe a word he says," interrupts Madame Ashley, springing suddenly to her feet, and
commencing to pour out her phials of wrath on the head of the poor parson, whom she accuses
of being a suspicious and extremely unprofitable frequenter of her house, which she describes
as exceedingly respectable. "Your Honor can bear me out in what I say!" pursues Madame, bowing
with an air of exultation, as the sheriff demands order.

"A sorry lot, these plantation preachers! Punish him right soundly, your honor. It is not the
first time he has damaged the respectability of my house!" again interrupts Madame Ashley.
His Honor replies only with a blush. Mr. Snivel, who watches with quisical countenance, over
the bar, enjoys the joke wonderfully.

Order being restored, the Judge turns to address the parson.

"I see, my friend--I always address my prisoners familiarly--you place but little value on
the fact of your being a clergyman, on the ground that you only preach to slaves. This charge
brought against you is a grave one--I assure you! And I cannot incline to the view you take
of your profession. I may not be as erudite as some; however, I hold it that the ignorant and
not the learned have most need of good example."

"Aye! I always told the old reprobate so," interposes Madam Ashley, with great fervor.

"A charge," resumes the Judge, "quite sufficient to warrant me in committing you to durance
vile, might be preferred. You may thank my generosity that it is not. These houses, as you
know, Mr. Patterson, are not only dangerous, but damaging to men of potent morality like you."

"But, your Honor knows, they are much frequented," meekly drawls the parson.

"It affords no palliation," sharply responds the Judge, his face crimsoning with blushes. "Mark
ye, my friend of the clergy, these places make sad destruction of our young men. Indeed I may
say with becoming sincerity and truth, that they spread a poison over the community, and act
as the great enemy of our social system."

"Heigh ho!" ejaculates Madame Ashley, to the great delight of the throng assembled, "Satan
has come to rebuke sin." Madame bids his Honor a very polite good morning, and takes her departure,
looking disdainfully over her shoulder as she disappears out of the door.

Not a little disturbed in his equanimity, the Judge pursues his charge. "The clergy ought to
keep their garments clear of such places, for being the source of all evil, the effect on the
community is not good--I mean when such things are brought to light! I would address you frankly
and admonish you to go no more into such places. Let your ways merit the approbation of those
to whom you preach the Gospel. You can go. Henceforth, live after the ways of the virtuous."

Parson Patterson thanks his Honor, begs to assure him of his innocence, and seems only too
anxious to get away. His Honor bows to Mr. Patterson, Mr. Patterson returns it, and adds another
for the audience, whereupon the court adjourns, and so ends the episode. His Honor takes Mr.
Snivel's arm, and together they proceed to the "most convenient" saloon, where, over a well-compounded
punch, "the bench and the bar" compliment each other on the happy disposal of such vexatious cases.

CHAPTER XXVII.

THE HOUSE OF THE NINE NATIONS, AND WHAT MAY BE SEEN IN IT.

On the corner of Anthony street and the Points,[4] in New-York, there stands, like a grim savage,
the house of the Nine Nations, a dingy wooden tenement, that for twenty years has threatened
to tumble away from its more upright neighbor, and before which the stranger wayfarer is seen
to stop and contemplate. In a neighborhood redolent of crime, there it stands, its vices thick
upon its head, exciting in the mind of the observer its association with some dark and terrible
deed. On the one side, opens that area of misery, mud and sombre walls, called "Cow Bay;" on
the other a triangular plot, reeking with the garbage of the miserable cellars that flank it,
and in which swarms of wasting beings seek a hiding-place, inhale pestilential air, and die.
Gutters running with seething matter; homeless outcasts sitting, besotted, on crazy doorsteps;
the vicious, with savage visage, and keen, watchful eye, loitering at the doors of filthy "groceries;"
the sickly and neglected child crawling upon the side-pave, or seeking a crust to appease its
hunger--all are found here, gasping, in rags, a breath of air by day, or seeking a shelter,
at night, in dens so abject that the world can furnish no counterpart. And this forlorn picture
of dilapidated houses, half-clad, squabbish women, blistered-faced men, and sickly children,
the house of the Nine Nations overlooks. And yet this house, to the disgrace of an opulent
people be it said, is but the sample of an hundred others standing in the same neighborhood.

[Footnote 4: Now Worth street and Mission Place.]

With its basement-doors opening into its bottomless pit; with its continual outgoing and ingoing
of sooty and cruel-visaged denizens; with its rickety old steps leading to the second story;
with its battered windows, begrimed walls, demolished shutters, clapboards hanging at sixes
and sevens--with its suspicious aspect;--there it stands, with its distained sign over the
doors of its bottomless pit. You may read on this sign, that a gentleman from Ireland, who
for convenience' sake we will call Mr. Krone, is licensed to sell imported and other liquors.

Indeed the house of the Nine Nations would seem to say within itself: "I am mother of this
banquet of death you behold with your eyes." There it stands, its stream of poison hurrying
its victims to the grave; its little dark passages leading to curious hiding-places; its caving
roof, and its ominous-looking back platform, overlooking the dead walls of Murderers' Yard.
How it mocks your philanthropy, your regal edifices, your boasted charities--your gorgeous
churches! Everybody but the corporation knows the house of the Nine Nations, a haunt for wasted
prostitutes, assassins, burglars, thieves--every grade of criminals known to depraved nature.
The corporation would seem either to have a charming sympathy for it, or to look upon it with
that good-natured indifference so happily illustrated while eating its oysters and drinking
its whiskey. An empty-headed corporation is sure always to have its hands very full, which
is the case with yours at this moment. Having the people's money to waste, its own ambition
to serve, and its hat to fill with political waste paper--what more would you ask of it?

The man of the house of the Nine Nations, you ought to know, makes criminals by the hundred,
deluges your alms houses with paupers, and makes your Potters' field reek with his victims:
for this he is become rich. Mr. Krone is an intimate friend of more than one Councilman, and
a man of much measure in the political world--that is, Mr. Krone is a politician-maker. When
you say there exists too close an intimacy between the pugilist and the politician, Mr. Krone
will bet twenty drinks with any one of his customers that he can prove such doctrines at fault.
He can secure the election of his favorite candidate with the same facility that he can make
an hundred paupers per week. You may well believe him a choice flower in the bouquet of the
corporation; we mean the corporation that banquets and becomes jubilant while assassins stab
their victims in the broad street--that becomes befogged while bands of ruffians disgrace the
city with their fiendish outrages--that makes presidents and drinks whiskey when the city would
seem given over to the swell-mobsman--when no security is offered to life, and wholesale harlotry,
flaunting with naked arms and bared bosoms, passes along in possession of Broadway by night.

It is the night succeeding the day Lady Swiggs discovered, at the house of the Foreign Missions,
the loss of her cherished donations. As this is a world of disappointments, Lady Swiggs resigns
herself to this most galling of all, and with her Milton firmly grasped in her hand, may be
seen in a little room at Sister Scudder's, rocking herself in the arm-chair, and wondering
if Brother Spyke has captured the robber-wretch. A chilly wind howls, and a drizzling rain
falls thick over the dingy dwellings of the Points, which, sullen and dark, seem in a dripping
mood. A glimmering light, here and there, throws curious shadows over the liquid streets. Now
the drenched form of some half-naked and homeless being is reflected, standing shivering in
the entrance to some dark and narrow alley; then the half-crazed inebriate hurries into the
open door of a dismal cellar, or seeks eagerly a shelter for his bewildered head, in some suspicious
den. Flashing through the shadow of the police lamp, in "Cow Bay," a forlorn female is seen,
a bottle held tightly under her shawl. Sailing as it were into the bottomless pit of the house
of the Nine Nations, then suddenly returning with the drug, seeking the cheerless garret of
her dissolute partner, and there striving to blunt her feelings against the horrors of starvation.

Two men stand, an umbrella over their heads, at the corner, in the glare of the bottomless
pit, which is in a blaze of light, and crowded with savage-faced figures, of various ages and
colors,--all habited in the poison-seller's uniform of rags. "I don't think you'll find him
here, sir," says one, addressing the other, who is tall and slender of person, and singularly
timid. "God knows I am a stranger here. To-morrow I leave for Antioch," is the reply, delivered
in nervous accents. The one is Brother Syngleton Spyke, the other Mr. Detective Fitzgerald,
a man of more than middle stature, with compact figure, firmly-knit limbs, and an expression
of countenance rather pleasant.

"You see, sir, this Toddleworth is a harmless creature, always aims to be obliging and civil.
I don't, sir--I really don't think he'll steal. But one can't tell what a man will do who is
driven to such straits as the poor devils here are. We rather like Toddleworth at the station,
look upon him as rather wanting in the head, and for that reason rather incline to favor him.
I may say we now and then let him 'tie up' all night in the station. And for this he seems
very thankful. I may say," continues Mr. Fitzgerald, touching the visor of his cap, "that he
always repays with kindness any little attention we may extend to him at the station, and at
times seems too anxious to make it his home. We give him a shirt and a few shillings now and
then; and when we want to be rid of him we begin to talk about fashionable wives. He is sure
to go then. Can't stand such a topic, I assure you, sir, and is sure to go off in a huff when
Sergeant Pottle starts it."

They enter the great door of the bottomless pit; the young missionary hesitates. His countenance
changes, his eyes scan steadily over the scene. A room some sixty feet by twenty opens to his
astonished eyes. Its black, boarded walls, and bare beams, are enlivened here and there with
extravagant pictures of notorious pugilists, show-bills, and illustrated advertisements of
lascivious books, in which the murder of an unfortunate woman is the principal feature. Slippery
mud covers the floor. Mr. Krone sits on an empty whiskey-barrel, his stunted features betraying
the hardened avarice of his character. He smokes his black pipe, folds his arms deliberately,
discoursing of the affairs of the nation to two stupefied negroes and one blear-eyed son of
the Emerald Isle. Three uncouth females, with hair hanging matted over their faces, and their
features hidden in distortion, stand cooling their bared limbs at a running faucet just inside
the door, to the left. A group of half-naked negroes lie insensible on the floor, to the right.
A little further on two prostrate females, shivering, and reeking of gin, sleep undisturbed
by the profanity that is making the very air resound. "The gin gets a-many of us," is the mournful
cry of many a wasting inebriate. Mr. Krone, however, will tell you he has no sympathy with
such cries. You arraign, and perhaps punish, the apothecary who sells by mistake his deadly
drug. With a philosophical air, Mr. Krone will tell you he deals out his poison without scruple,
fills alms-houses without a pang of remorse, and proves that a politician-maker may do much
to degrade society and remain in high favor with his friends of the bench of justice. On one
side of the dungeon-like place stands a rickety old counter, behind which three savage-faced
men stand, filling and serving incessant potions of deleterious liquor to the miserable beings,
haggard and ragged, crowding to be first served. Behind the bar, or counter, rises a pyramid
of dingy shelves, on which are arranged little painted kegs, labelled, and made bright by the
glaring gas-light reflected upon them. On the opposite side, on rows of slab benches, sit a
group of motley beings,--the young girl and the old man, the negro and the frail white,--half
sleeping, half conscious; all imbibing the stifling draught.

Like revelling witches in rags, and seen through the bedimmed atmosphere at the further end
of the den, are half-frantic men, women, and girls, now sitting at deal tables, playing for
drinks, now jostling, jeering, and profaning in wild disorder. A girl of sixteen, wasted and
deformed with dissipation, approaches Brother Spyke, extends her blanched hand, and importunes
him for gin. He shudders, and shrinks from her touch, as from a reptile. A look of scorn, and
she turns from him, and is lost among the grotesque crowd in the distance.

"This gin," says Mr. Fitzgerald, turning methodically to Brother Spyke, "they make do for food
and clothing. We used to call this the devil's paradise. As to Krone, we used to call him the
devil's bar-tender. These ragged revellers, you see, beg and steal during the day, and get
gin with it at night. Krone thinks nothing of it! Lord bless your soul, sir! why, this man
is reckoned a tip-top politician; on an emergency he can turn up such a lot of votes!" Mr.
Fitzgerald, approaching Mr. Krone, says "you're a pretty fellow. Keeping such a place as this!"
The detective playfully strikes the hat of the other, crowding it over his eyes, and inquiring
if he has seen Tom Toddleworth during the day. Mr. Toddleworth was not seen during the day.
No one in the bottomless pit knows where he may be found. A dozen husky voices are heard to
say, he has no home--stores himself away anywhere, and may be found everywhere.

Brother Spyke bows, and sighs. Mr. Fitzgerald says: "he is always harmless--this Toddleworth."
As the two searchers are about to withdraw, the shrunken figure of a woman rushes wildly into
the pit. "Devils! devils!--hideous devils of darkness! here you are--still hover--hover--hovering;
turning midnight into revelling, day into horrid dreaming!" she shrieks at the top of her voice.
Now she pauses suddenly, and with a demoniacal laugh sets her dull, glassy eyes on Mr. Krone,
then walks round him with clenched fists and threatening gestures. The politician-maker sits
unmoved. Now she throws her hair about her bare breasts, turns her eyes upward, imploringly,
and approaches Brother Spyke, with hand extended. Her tale of sorrow and suffering is written
in her very look. "She won't hurt you--never harms anybody;" says Mr. Fitzgerald, methodically,
observing Brother Spyke's timidity.

"No, no, no," she mutters incoherently, "you are not of this place--you know, like the rich
world up-town, little of these revelling devils. Cling! yes, cling to the wise one--tell him
to keep you from this, and forever be your teacher. Tell him! tell him! oh! tell him!" She
wrings her hands, and having sailed as it were into the further end of the pit, vaults back,
and commences a series of wild gyrations round Mr. Krone.

"Poor wretch!" says Brother Spyke, complacently, "the gin has dried up her senses--made her
what she is."

"Maniac Munday! Maniac Munday!" suddenly echoes and re-echoes through the pit. She turns her
ear, and with a listless countenance listens attentively, then breaks out into an hysterical
laugh. "Yes! ye loathsome denizens. Like me, no one seeks you, no one cares for you. I am poor,
poor maniac Munday. The maniac that one fell error brought to this awful end." Again she lowers
her voice, flings her hair back over her shoulders, and gives vent to her tears. Like one burdened
with sorrow she commences humming an air, that even in this dark den floats sweetly through
the polluted atmosphere. "Well, I am what I am," she sighs, having paused in her tune. "That
one fatal step--that plighted faith! How bitter to look back." Her bony fingers wander to her
lips, which she commences biting and fretting, as her countenance becomes pale and corpse-like.
Again her reason takes its flight. She staggers to the drenched counter, holds forth her bottle,
lays her last sixpence tauntingly upon the board, and watches with glassy eyes the drawing
of the poisonous drug. Meanwhile Mr. Krone, with an imprecation, declares he has power to elect
his candidate to the Senate. The man behind the counter--the man of savage face, has filled
the maniac's bottle, which he pushes toward her with one hand, as with the other he sweeps
her coin into a drawer. "Oh! save poor maniac Munday--save poor maniac Munday!" the woman cries,
like one in despair, clutching the bottle, and reels out of the pit.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

IN WHICH IS PRESENTED ANOTHER PICTURE OF THE HOUSE OF THE NINE NATIONS.

Pale and hesitating, Brother Spyke says: "I have no passion for delving into such places; and
having seen enough for one night, am content to leave the search for this vile old man to you."
The valiant missionary addresses Mr. Fitzgerald, who stands with one foot upon the rickety
old steps that lead to the second story of the House of the Nine Nations.

This morning, Brother Spyke was ready to do battle with the whole heathen world, to drag it
up into light, to evangelize it. Now he quails before this heathen world, so terribly dark,
at his own door.

"You have, sir," says the detective, "seen nuthin' as yet. The sights are in these 'ere upper
dens; but, I may say it, a body wants nerve. Some of our Aldermen say ye can't see such sights
nowhere else."

The missionary replies, holding tenaciously to his umbrella, "That may be true; but I fear
they will be waiting me at home." Again he scans inquiringly into the drenched area of the
Points; then bidding the officer good-night, is soon out of sight, on his way into Centre Street.
Reaching the old stoop, the detective touches a spring, and the shattered door opens into a
narrow, gloomy passage, along which he gropes his way, over a floor cobbled with filth, and
against an atmosphere thick of disease. Now a faint light flashes through a crevice in the
left wall, plays fantastically upon the black surface of the opposite, then dies away. The
detective lights his lantern, stands a moment with his ear turned, as if listening to the revelry
in the bottomless pit. A door opens to his touch, he enters a cave-like room--it is the one
from out which the light stole so curiously, and in which all is misery and sadness. A few
embers still burn in a great brick fireplace, shedding a lurid glow over the damp, filthy walls,
the discolored ceiling, and the grotesque group upon the floor. "You needn't come at this time
of night--we are all honest people;" speaks a massive negro, of savage visage, who (he is clothed
in rags) sits at the left side of the fireplace. He coaxes the remnant of his fire to cook
some coarse food he has placed in a small, black stew-pan, he watches with steady gaze. Three
white females (we blush to say it), their bare, brawny arms resting on their knees, and their
disfigured faces drooped into their hands, form an half circle on the opposite side.

"The world don't think nothin' of us down here--we haven't had a bite to eat to-night," gruffly
resumes the negro.

"May them that have riches enjoy them, for to be supperless is no uncommon thing wid us," interrupts
one of the women, gathering about her the shreds of her tattered garment, parting the matted
hair over her face, and revealing her ghastly features. The detective turns his light full
upon her. "If we live we live, if we die we die--nobody cares! Look you yonder, Mr. Fitzgerald,"
continues the negro, with a sarcastic leer. Turning his light to where the negro points, the
detective casts a glance into the shadow, and there discovers the rags move. A dozen pair of
glassy eyes are seen peering from out the filthy coverings, over which lean arms and blanched
hands keep up an incessant motion. Here an emaciated and heart-sick Welsh girl, of thirteen
(enciente) lays shivering on the broken floor; there an half-famished Scotch woman, two moaning
children nestling at her heart, suffers uncovered upon a pallet of straw. The busy world without
would seem not to have a care for her; the clergy have got the heathen world upon their shoulders.
Hunger, like a grim tyrant, has driven her to seek shelter in this wretched abode. Despair
has made her but too anxious that the grave or prison walls should close the record of her
sorrows. How tightly she with her right hand presses her babe to her bosom; how appealingly
with her left she asks a pittance of the detective! Will he not save from death her starving
child? He has nothing to give her, turns his head, answers only with a look of pity, and moves
slowly towards the door.

"You have not been long off the Island, Washington?" inquires the detective, with an air of
familiarity.

"I wish," replies the negro, sullenly, "I was back. An honest man as I is, can't get on in
this world. Necessity makes rascals of better men than me, Mr. Fitzgerald. Mr. Krone (he's
a white man, though) makes all the politicians for the district, and charges me eight dollars
a month for this hole. Just measure them two things together, Mr. Fitzgerald; then see if takin'
in sixpenny, lodgers pays." Mr. Fitzgerald commences counting them. "You needn't count," pursues
the negro, uncovering his stew-pan, "there's only eighteen in to-night. Have twenty, sometimes!
Don't get nothin' for that poor Scotch woman an' her children. Can't get it when they hain't
got it--you know that, Mr. Fitzgerald."

The detective inquires if any of them have seen Mr. Toddleworth to-day. Washington has not
seen him, and makes no scruple of saying he thinks very little of him.

"Faith an' it's hard times with poor Tom," speaks up one of the women, in a deep brogue. "It
was only last night--the same I'm tellin' is true, God knows--Mrs. McCarty took him to the
Rookery--the divil a mouthful he'd ate durin' the day--and says, bein' a ginerous sort of body,
come, take a drop, an' a bite to ate. Mister Toddleworth did that same, and thin lay the night
on the floor. To-night--it's the truth, God knows--Tom Downey took him above. An' it's Tom
who woundn't be the frind of the man who hadn't a shillin' in his pocket."

The detective shrugs his shoulders, and having thanked the woman, withdraws into the passage,
to the end of which he cautiously picks his way, and knocks at a distained door that fronts
him. A voice deep and husky bids him enter, which he does, as the lurid glare of his lantern
reveals a room some twelve by sixteen feet, the plaster hanging in festoons from the black
walls, and so low of ceiling that he scarce can stand upright. Four bunk-beds, a little bureau,
a broken chair or two, and a few cheap pictures, hung here and there on the sombre walls, give
it an air of comfort in grateful contrast with the room just left. "Who lives here?" inquires
the detective, turning his light full upon each object that attracts his attention. "Shure
it's only me--Mrs. Terence Murphy--and my three sisters (the youngest is scarce fourteen),
and the two English sisters: all honest people, God knows," replies Mrs. Murphy, with a rapid
tongue.

"It's not right of you to live this way," returns the detective, continuing to survey the prostrate
forms of Mrs. Murphy, her three sisters, and the two fair-haired English girls, and the besotted
beings they claim as husbands. Alarm is pictured in every countenance. A browned face withdraws
under a dingy coverlid, an anxious face peers from out a pallet on the floor, a prostrate figure
in the corner inquires the object of Mr. Detective Fitzgerald's visit--and Mrs. Murphy, holding
it more becoming of respectable society, leaves the bed in which she had accommodated five
others, and gets into one she calls her own. A second thought, and she makes up her mind not
to get into bed, but to ask Mr. Fitzgerald if he will be good enough, when next he meets his
Onher, the Mayor, just to say to him how Mr. Krone is bringing disgrace upon the house and
every one in it, by letting rooms to negroes. Here she commences pouring out her pent-up wrath
upon the head of Mr. Krone, and the colored gentleman, whom she declares has a dozen white
females in his room every night. The detective encourages her by saying it is not right of
Mr. Krone, who looks more at the color of his money than the skin of his tenants. "To come
of a dacint family--and be brought to this!" says Mrs. Murphy, allowing her passion to rise,
and swearing to have revenge of the negro in the next room.

"You drink this gin, yet--I have warned you against it," interposes the detective, pointing
to some bottles on the bureau. "Faith, an' it's the gin gets a many of us," returns the woman,
curtly, as she gathers about her the skirts of her garments. "Onyhow, yerself wouldn't deprive
us of a drop now and then, jist to keep up the spirits." The detective shakes his head, then
discloses to them the object of his search, adding, in parenthesis, that he does not think
Mr. Toddleworth is the thief. A dozen tongues are ready to confirm the detective's belief.
"Not a shillin' of it did the poor crature take--indeed he didn't, now, Mr. Fitzgerald. 'Onor's
'onor, all over the wurld!" says Mrs. Murphy, grasping the detective by the hand. "Stay till
I tell ye all about it. Mary Maguire--indeed an' ye knows her, Mr. Fitzgerald--this same afternoon
looked in to say--'how do ye do, Mrs. Murphy. See this! Mrs. Murphy,' says she, 'an' the divil
a sich a pocket of money I'd see before, as she held in her right hand, jist. 'Long life to
ye, Mary,' says I. 'We'll have a pint, Mrs. Murphy,' says she. 'May ye niver want the worth
of it,' says I. And the pint was not long in, when Mary got a little the worse of it, and let
all out about the money. 'You won't whisper it, Mrs. Murphy,' says she, 'if I'd tell ye in
confidence by what manes I got the lift?'"

"'Not in the wide world, Mary,' says I; 'ye may trust me for that same.' 'Shure didn't I raise
it from the pocket of an auld woman in spectacles, that watched the fool beyant dig up the
corporation.' 'An' it'll not do yerself much good,' says I, liftin' the same, and cuttin' away
to the house. 'You won't whisper it?' says she."

"I can confirm the truth of that same," rejoins a brusque-figured man, rising from his pallet,
and speaking with regained confidence. "Mary looked in at the Blazers, and being the worse
of liquor, showed a dale of ready money, and trated everybody, and gave the money to everybody,
and was wilcome wid everybody. Then Mrs. McCarty got aboard of her ginerosity, and got her
into the Rookery, where the Miss McCartys thought it would not be amiss to have a quart. The
same was brought in, and Mary hersel' was soon like a dead woman on the floor, jist--"

"And they got the money all away?" interrupts the detective.

"Faith, an' she'll not have a blessed dollar come daylight," continues the man, resuming his
pallet.

The detective bids Mrs. Murphy good night, and is soon groping his way over a rickety old floor,
along a dark, narrow passage, scarce high enough to admit him, and running at right angles
with the first. A door on the left opens into a grotto-like place, the sickly atmosphere of
which seems hurling its poison into the very blood. "Who's here?" inquires the detective, and
a voice, feeble and hollow, responds: "Lodgers!"

The damp, greasy walls; the broken ceilings; the sooty fireplace, with its shattered bricks;
the decayed wainscoating--its dark, forlorn aspect, all bespeak it the fit abode of rats. And
yet Mr. Krone thinks it comfortable enough (the authorities think Mr. Krone the best judge)
for the accommodation of thirteen remnants of human misery, all of whom are here huddled together
on the wet, broken floor, borrowing warmth of one another. The detective's light falls curiously
upon the dread picture, which he stands contemplating. A pale, sickly girl, of some eleven
summers, her hair falling wildly over her wan features, lays upon some rags near the fireplace,
clinging to an inebriated mother. Here a father, heart-sick and prostrate with disease, seeks
to keep warm his three ragged children, nestling about him. An homeless outcast, necessity
forces him to send them out to prey upon the community by day, and to seek in this wretched
hovel a shelter at night. Yonder the rags are thrown back, a moving mass is disclosed, and
there protrudes a disfigured face, made ghostly by the shadow of the detective's lantern. At
the detective's feet a prostrate girl, insensible of gin, is seized with convulsions, clutches
with wasted hands at the few rags about her poor, flabby body, then with fingers grasping,
and teeth firmly set, her whole frame writhes in agony. Your missionary never whispered a kind,
encouraging word in her ear; his hand never pressed that blanched bone with which she now saddens
your heart! Different might it have been with her had some gentle-tongued Brother Spyke sought
her out, bore patiently with her waywardness, snatched her from this life of shame, and placed
her high in an atmosphere of light and love.

It is here, gentle shepherds, the benighted stand most in need of your labors. Seek not to
evangelize the Mahomedan world until you have worked a reform here; and when you have done
it, a monument in heaven will be your reward.

"Mr. Toddleworth is not here," says the detective, withdrawing into the passage, then ascending
a broken and steep stairs that lead into the third story. Nine shivering forms crouched in
one dismal room; four squabbish women, and three besotted men in another; and in a third, nine
ragged boys and two small girls--such are the scenes of squalid misery presented here. In a
little front room, Mr. Tom Downey, his wife, and eight children, lay together upon the floor,
half covered with rags. Mr. Downey startles at the appearance of the detective, rises nervously
from his pallet, and after the pause of a moment, says: "Indeed, yer welcome, Mr. Fitzgerald.
Indeed, I have not--an' God knows it's the truth I tell--seen Mr. Toddleworth the week;" he
replies, in answer to a question from the detective.

"You took a drop with him this afternoon?" continues the detective, observing his nervousness.

"God knows it's a mistake, Mr. Fitzgerald." Mr. Downey changes the subject, by saying the foreigners
in the garret are a great nuisance, and disturb him of his rest at night.

A small, crooked stair leads into "Organ-grinders' Roost," in the garret. To "Organ-grinders'
Roost" the detective ascends. If, reader, you have ever pictured in your mind the cave of despair,
peopled by beings human only in shape, you may form a faint idea of the wretchedness presented
in "Organ-grinders' Roost," at the top of the house of the Nine Nations. Seven stalworth men
shoot out from among a mass of rags on the floor, and with dark, wandering eyes, and massive,
uncombed beards, commence in their native Italian a series of interrogatories, not one of which
the detective can understand. They would inquire for whom he seeks at this strange hour. He
(the detective) stands unmoved, as with savage gesture--he has discovered his star--they tell
him they are famishing of hunger. A pretty black-eyed girl, to whose pale, but beautifully
oval face an expression of sorrow lends a touching softness, lays on the bare floor, beside
a mother of patriarchal aspect. Now she is seized with a sharp cough that brings blood at every
paroxysm. As if forgetting herself, she lays her hand gently upon the cheek of her mother,
anxious to comfort her. Ah! the hard hand of poverty has been upon her through life, and stubbornly
refuses to relax its grip, even in her old age. An organ forms here and there a division between
the sleepers; two grave-visaged monkeys sit chattering in the fireplace, then crouch down on
the few charred sticks. A picture of the crucifix is seen conspicuous over the dingy fireplace,
while from the slanting roof hang several leathern girdles. Oh, what a struggle for life is
their's! Mothers, fathers, daughters, and little children, thus promiscuously grouped, and
coming up in neglect and shame. There an old man, whom remorseless death is just calling into
eternity, with dull, glassy eyes, white, flowing beard, bald head, sunken mouth, begrimed and
deeply-wrinkled face, rises, spectre-like, from his pallet. Now he draws from his breast a
small crucifix, and commences muttering to it in a guttural voice. "Peace, peace, good old
man--the holy father will come soon--the holy virgin will come soon: he will receive the good
spirit to his bosom," says a black-eyed daughter, patting him gently upon the head, then looking
in his face solicitously, as he turns his eyes upward, and for a few moments seems invoking
the mercy of the Allwise. "Yes, father," she resumes, lightening up the mat of straw upon which
he lays, "the world has been unkind to you, but you are passing from it to a better--you will
be at peace soon."

"Soon, soon, soon," mumbles the old man, in a whisper; and having carefully returned the crucifix
to his bosom, grasps fervently the hand of the girl and kisses it, as her eyes swim in tears.

Such, to the shame of those who live in princely palaces, and revel in luxury, are but faintly-drawn
pictures of what may be seen in the house of the Nine Nations.

The detective is about to give up the search, and turns to descend the stairs, when suddenly
he discerns a passage leading to the north end of the garret. Here, in a little closet-like
room, on the right, the rats his only companions, lies the prostrate form of poor Toddleworth.

"Well, I persevered till I found you," says the detective, turning his light full upon the
body. Another minute, and his features become as marble; he stands aghast, and his whole frame
seems struggling under the effect of some violent shock. "What, what, what!" he shouts, in
nervous accents, "Murder! murder! murder! some one has murdered him." Motionless the form lies,
the shadow of the light revealing the ghastly spectacle. The head lies in a pool of blood,
the bedimmed eyes, having taken their last look, remain fixedly set on the black roof. "He
has died of a blow--of a broken skull!" says the frightened official, feeling, and feeling,
and pressing the arms and hands that are fast becoming rigid. Life is gone out; a pauper's
grave will soon close over what remains of this wretched outcast. The detective hastens down
stairs, spreads the alarm over the neighborhood, and soon the House of the Nine Nations is
the scene of great excitement.

CHAPTER XXIX.

IN WHICH MAY BE SEEN A FEW OF OUR COMMON EVILS.

Leaving for a time the scenes in the House of the Nine Nations, let us return to Charleston,
that we may see how matters appertaining to this history are progressing. Mr. Snivel is a popular
candidate for the Senate of South Carolina; and having shot his man down in the street, the
question of his fighting abilities we regard as honorably settled. Madame Montford, too, has
by him been kept in a state of nervous anxiety, for he has not yet found time to search in
the "Poor-house for the woman Munday." All our very first, and best-known families, have dropped
Madame, who is become a wet sheet on the fashionable world. A select committee of the St. Cecilia
has twice considered her expulsion, while numerous very respectable and equally active old
ladies have been shaking their scandal-bags at her head. Sins have been laid at her door that
would indeed damage a reputation with a fairer endorsement than New York can give.

Our city at this moment is warmed into a singular state of excitement. A Georgia editor (we
regard editors as belonging to a very windy class of men), not having the mightiness of our
chivalry before him, said the Union would have peace if South Carolina were shut up in a penitentiary.
And for this we have invited the indiscreet gentleman to step over the border, that we may
hang him, being extremely fond of such common-place amusements. What the facetious fellow meant
was, that our own State would enjoy peace and prosperity were our mob-politicians all in the
penitentiary. And with this sensible opinion we heartily agree.

We regard our state of civilization as extremely enviable. To-day we made a lion of the notorious
Hines, the forger. Hines, fashioning after our hapless chivalry, boasts that South Carolina
is his State--his political mother. He has, nevertheless, graced with his presence no few penitentiaries.
We feasted him in that same prison where we degrade and starve the honest poor; we knew him
guilty of an heinous crime--yet we carried him jubilantly to the "halls of justice." And while
distinguished lawyers tendered their services to the "clever villain," you might have witnessed
in sorrow a mock trial, and heard a mob sanction with its acclamations his release.

Oh, truth and justice! how feeble is thy existence where the god slavery reigns. And while
men are heard sounding the praises of this highwayman at the street corners, extolling men
who have shot down their fellow-men in the streets, and calling those "Hon. gentlemen," who
have in the most cowardly manner assassinated their opponents, let us turn to a different picture.
Two genteely-dressed men are seen entering the old, jail. "I have twice promised them a happy
surprise," says one, whose pale, studious features, wear an expression of gentleness. The face
of the other is somewhat florid, but beaming with warmth of heart. They enter, having passed
up one of the long halls, a room looking into the prison-yard. Several weary-faced prisoners
are seated round a deal table, playing cards; among them is the old sailor described in the
early part of this history. "You don't know my friend, here?" says the young man of the studious
face, addressing the prisoners, and pointing to his companion. The prisoners look inquiringly
at the stranger, then shake their heads in response.

"No, you don't know me: you never knew me when I was a man," speaks the stranger, raising his
hat, as a smile lights up his features. "You don't know Tom Swiggs, the miserable inebriate--"

A spontaneous shout of recognition, echoing and reechoing through the old halls, interrupts
this declaration. One by one the imprisoned men grasp him by the hand, and shower upon him
the warmest, the heartiest congratulations. A once fallen brother has risen to a knowledge
of his own happiness. Hands that raised him from that mat of straw, when the mental man seemed
lost, now welcome him restored, a purer being.

"Ah, Spunyarn," says Tom, greeting the old sailor with childlike fondness, as the tears are
seen gushing into the eyes, and coursing down the browned face of the old mariner, "I owe you
a debt I fear I never can pay. I have thought of you in my absence, and had hoped on my return
to see you released. I am sorry you are not--"

"Well, as to that," interrupts the old sailor, his face resuming its wonted calm, "I can't--you
know I can't, Tom,--sail without a clearance. I sometimes think I'm never going to get one.
Two years, as you know, I've been here, now backing and then filling, in and out, just as it
suits that chap with the face like a snatch-block. They call him a justice. 'Pon my soul, Tom,
I begin to think justice for us poor folks is got aground. Well, give us your hand agin' (he
seizes Tom by the hand); its all well wi' you, anyhows.'

"Yes, thank God," says Tom, returning his friendly shake, "I have conquered the enemy, and
my thanks for it are due to those who reached my heart with kind words, and gave me a brother's
hand. I was not dead to my own degradation; but imprisonment left me no hope. The sting of
disappointment may pain your feelings; hope deferred may torture you here in a prison; the
persecutions of enemies may madden your very soul; but when a mother turns coldly from you--No,
I will not say it, for I love her still--" he hesitates, as the old sailor says, with touching
simplicity, he never knew what it was to have a mother or father. Having spread before the
old man and his companions sundry refreshments he had ordered brought in, and received in return
their thanks, he inquires of Spunyarn how it happened that he got into prison, and how it is
that he remains here a fixture.

"I'll tell you, Tom," says the old sailor, commencing his story. "We'd just come ashore--had
a rough passage--and, says I to myself, here's lay up ashore awhile. So I gets a crimp, who
takes me to a crib. 'It's all right here--you'll have snug quarters, Jack,' says he, introducing
me to the chap who kept it. I gives him twenty dollars on stack, and gets up my chest and hammock,
thinking it was all fair and square. Then I meets an old shipmate, who I took in tow, he being
hard ashore for cash. 'Let us top the meetin' with a glass,' says I. 'Agreed,' says Bill, and
I calls her on, the very best. 'Ten cents a glass,' says the fellow behind the counter, giving
us stuff that burnt as it went. 'Mister,' says I, 'do ye want to poison a sailor?' 'If you
no like him,' says he, 'go get better somewhere else.' I told him to give me back the twenty,
and me dunnage.

"'You don't get him--clear out of mine 'ouse,' says he.

"'Under the peak,' says I, fetching him a but under the lug that beached him among his beer-barrels.
He picked himself up, and began talking about a magistrate. And knowing what sort of navigation
a fellow'd have in the hands of that sort of land-craft, I began to think about laying my course
for another port. 'Hold on here,' says a big-sided land-lubber, seizing me by the fore-sheets.
'Cast off there,' says I, 'or I'll put ye on yer beam-ends.'

"'I'm a constable,' says he, pulling out a pair of irons he said must go on my hands."

"I hope he did not put them on," interrupts the young theologian, for it is he who accompanies Tom.

"Avast! I'll come to that. He said he'd only charge me five dollars for going to jail without
'em, so rather than have me calling damaged, I giv him it. It was only a trifle. 'Now, Jack,'
says the fellow, as we went along, in a friendly sort of way, 'just let us pop in and see the
justice. I think a ten 'll get ye a clearance.' 'No objection to that,' says I, and in we went,
and there sat the justice, face as long and sharp as a marlinspike, in a dirty old hole, that
looked like our forecastle. 'Bad affair this, Jack,' says he, looking up over his spectacles.
'You must be locked up for a year and a day, Jack.'

"'You'll give a sailor a hearin', won't ye?' says I. 'As to that,--well, I don't know, Jack;
you musn't break the laws of South Carolina when you get ashore. You seem like a desirable
sailor, and can no doubt get a ship and good wages--this is a bad affair. However, as I'm not
inclined to be hard, if you are disposed to pay twenty dollars, you can go.' 'Law and justice,'
says I, shaking my fist at him--'do ye take this salt-water citizen for a fool?'

"'Take him away, Mr. Stubble--lock him up!--lock him up!' says the justice, and here I am,
locked up, hard up, hoping. I'd been tied up about three weeks when the justice looked in one
day, and after inquiring for me, and saying, 'good morning, Jack,' and seeming a little by
the head: 'about this affair of yourn, Jack,' says he, 'now, if you'll mind your eye when you
get out--my trouble's worth ten dollars--and pay me, I'll discharge you, and charge the costs
to the State.'

"'Charge the cost to the State!' says I. 'Do you take Spunyarn for a marine?' At this he hauled
his wind, and stood out."

"You have had a hearing before the Grand Jury, have you not?" inquires Tom, evincing a deep
interest in the story of his old friend.

"Not I. This South Carolina justice is a hard old craft to sail in. The Grand Jury only looks
in once every six months, and then looks out again, without inquiring who's here. And just
before the time it comes round, I'm shuffled out, and just after it has left, I'm shuffled
in again--fees charged to the State! That's it. So here I am, a fee-making machine, bobbing
in and out of jail to suit the conveniences of Mister Justice. I don't say this with any ill
will--I don't." Having concluded his story, the old sailor follows his visitors to the prison
gate, takes an affectionate leave of Tom Swiggs, and returns to join his companions. On the
following day, Tom intercedes with Mr. Snivel, for it is he who thus harvests fees of the State
by retaining the old sailor in prison, and procures his release. And here, in Mr. Snivel, you
have an instrument of that debased magistracy which triumphs over the weak, that sits in ignorance
and indolence, that invests the hypocritical designer with a power almost absolute, that keeps
justice muzzled on her throne--the natural offspring of that demon-making institution that
scruples not to brunt the intellect of millions, while dragging a pall of sloth over the land.

CHAPTER XXX.

CONTAINING VARIOUS THINGS APPERTAINING TO THIS HISTORY.

Maria McArthur having, by her womanly sympathy, awakened the generous impulses of Tom Swiggs,
he is resolved they shall have a new channel for their action. Her kindness touched his heart;
her solicitude for his welfare gained his affections, and a recognition of that love she so
long and silently cherished for him, is the natural result. The heart that does not move to
woman's kindness, must indeed be hard. But there were other things which strengthened Tom's
affections for Maria. The poverty of her aged father; the insults offered her by Keepum and
Snivel; the manner in which they sought her ruin while harassing her father; the artlessness
and lone condition of the pure-minded girl; and the almost holy affection evinced for the old
man on whom she doted--all tended to bring him nearer and nearer to her, until he irresistibly
found himself at her feet, pledging that faith lovers call eternal. Maria is not of that species
of being the world calls beautiful; but there is about her something pure, thoughtful, even
noble; and this her lone condition heightens. Love does not always bow before beauty. The singularities
of human nature are most strikingly blended in woman. She can overcome physical defects; she
can cultivate attractions most appreciated by those who study her worth deepest. Have you not
seen those whose charms at first-sight found no place in your thoughts, but as you were drawn
nearer and nearer to them, so also did your esteem quicken, and that esteem, almost unconsciously,
you found ripening into affection, until in turn you were seized with an ardent passion? You
have. And you have found yourself enamored of the very one against whom you had endeavored
most to restrain your generous impulses. Like the fine lines upon a picture with a repulsive
design, you trace them, and recur to them until your admiration is carried away captive. So
it is with woman's charms. Tom Swiggs, then, the restored man, bows before the simple goodness
of the daughter of the old Antiquary.

Mr. Trueman, the shipowner, gave Tom employment, and has proved a friend to him. Tom, in turn,
has so far gained his confidence and respect that Mr. Trueman contemplates sending him to London,
on board one of his ships. Nor has Tom forgotten to repay the old Antiquary, who gave him a
shelter when he was homeless; this home is still under the roof of the old man, toward whose
comfort he contributes weekly a portion of his earnings. If you could but look into that little
back-parlor, you would see a picture of humble cheerfulness presented in the old man, his daughter,
and Tom Swiggs, seated round the tea-table. Let us, however, turn and look into one of our
gaudy saloons, that we may see how different a picture is presented there.

It is the night previous to an election for Mayor. Leaden clouds hang threatening over the
city; the gas-light throws out its shadows at an early hour; and loud-talking men throng our
street-corners and public resorts. Our politicians tell us that the destiny of the rich and
the poor is to forever guard that institution which employs all our passions, and absorbs all
our energies.

In a curtained box, at the St. Charles, sits Mr. Snivel and George Mullholland--the latter
careworn and downcast of countenance. "Let us finish this champaign, my good fellow," says
the politician, emptying his glass. "A man--I mean one who wants to get up in the world--must,
like me, have two distinct natures. He must have a grave, moral nature--that is necessary to
the affairs of State. And he must, to accommodate himself to the world (law and society, I
mean), have a terribly loose nature--a perfect quicksand, into which he can drag everything
that serves himself. You have seen how I can develop both these, eh?" The downcast man shakes
his head, as the politician watches him with a steady gaze. "Take the advice of a friend, now,
let the Judge alone--don't threaten again to shoot that girl. Threats are sometimes dragged
in as testimony against a man (Mr. Snivel taps George admonishingly on the arm); and should
anything of a serious nature befall her--the law is curious--why, what you have said might
implicate you, though you were innocent."

"You," interrupts George, "have shot your man down in the street."

"A very different affair, George. My position in society protects me. I am a member of the
Jockey-Club, a candidate for the State Senate--a Justice of the Peace--yes, a politician! You
are--Well, I was going to say--nothing! We regard northerners as enemies; socially, they are
nothing. Come, George, come with me. I am your best friend. You shall see the power in my hands."
The two men saunter out together, pass up a narrow lane leading from King Street, and are soon
groping their way up the dark stairway of an old, neglected-looking wooden building, that for
several years has remained deserted by everything but rats and politicians,--one seeming to
gnaw away at the bowels of the nation, the other at the bowels of the old building. Having
ascended to the second floor, Mr. Snivel touches a spring, a suspicious little trap opens,
and two bright eyes peer out, as a low, whispering voice inquires, "Who's there?" Mr. Snivel
has exchanged the countersign, and with his companion is admitted into a dark vestibule, in
which sits a brawny guardsman.

"Cribs are necessary, sir--I suppose you never looked into one before?"

George, in a voice discovering timidity, says he never has.

"You must have cribs, and crib-voters; they are necessary to get into high office--indeed,
I may say, to keep up with the political spirit of the age." Mr. Snivel is interrupted by the
deep, coarse voice of Milman Mingle, the vote-cribber, whose broad, savage face looks out at
a small guard trap. "All right," he says, recognizing Mr. Snivel. Another minute, and a door
opens into a long, sombre-looking room, redolent of the fumes of whiskey and tobacco. "The
day is ours. We'll elect our candidate, and then my election is certain; naturalized thirteen
rather green ones to-day--to-morrow they will be trump cards. Stubbs has attended to the little
matter of the ballot-boxes." Mr. Snivel gives the vote-cribber's hand a warm shake, and turns
to introduce his friend. The vote-cribber has seen him before. "There are thirteen in," he
says, and two more he has in his eye, and will have in to-night, having sent trappers out for them.

Cold meats, bread, cheese, and crackers, and a bountiful supply of bad whiskey, are spread
over a table in the centre of the room; while the pale light of two small lamps, suspended
from the ceiling, throws a curious shadow over the repulsive features of thirteen forlorn,
ragged, and half-drunken men, sitting here and there round the room, on wooden benches. You
see ignorance and cruelty written in their very countenances. For nearly three weeks they have
not scented the air of heaven, but have been held here in a despicable bondage. Ragged and
filthy, like Falstaff's invincibles, they will be marched to the polls to-morrow, and cast
their votes at the bid of the cribber. "A happy lot of fellows," says Mr. Snivel, exultingly.
"I have a passion for this sort of business--am general supervisor of all these cribs, you
understand. We have several of them. Some of these 'drifts' we kidnap, and some come and be
locked up of their own accord--merely for the feed and drink. We use them, and then snuff them
out until we want them again." Having turned from George, and complimented the vote-cribber
for his skill, he bids him good-night. Together George and the politician wend their way to
an obscure part of the city, and having passed up two flight of winding stairs, into a large,
old-fashioned house on the Neck, are in a sort of barrack-room, fitted up with bunks and benches,
and filled with a grotesque assembly, making night jubilant--eating, drinking, smoking, and
singing. "A jolly set of fellows," says Mr. Snivel, with an expression of satisfaction. "This
is a decoy crib--the vagabonds all belong to the party of our opponents, but don't know it.
We work in this way: we catch them--they are mostly foreigners--lock them up, give them good
food and drink, and make them--not the half can speak our language--believe we belong to the
same party. They yield, as submissive as curs. To morrow, we--this is in confidence--drug them
all, send them into a fast sleep, in which we keep them till the polls are closed, then, not
wanting them longer, we kick them out for a set of drunkards. Dangerous sort of cribbing, this.
I let you into the secret out of pure friendship." Mr. Snivel pauses. George has at heart something
of deeper interest to him than votes and vote-cribbers. But why, he says to himself, does Mr.
Snivel evince this anxiety to befriend me? This question is answered by Mr. Snivel inviting
him to take a look into the Keno den.

CHAPTER XXXI.

THE KENO DEN, AND WHAT MAY BE SEEN IN IT.

The clock has just struck twelve. Mr. Snivel and George, passing from the scenes of our last
chapter, enter a Keno den,[5] situated on Meeting street. "You must get money, George. Here
you are nothing without money. Take this, try your hand, make your genius serve you." Mr. Snivel
puts twenty dollars into George's hand. They are in a room some twenty by thirty feet in dimensions,
dimly-lighted. Standing here and there are gambling tables, around which are seated numerous
mechanics, losing, and being defrauded of that for which they have labored hard during the
week. Hope, anxiety, and even desperation is pictured on the countenances of the players. Maddened
and disappointed, one young man rises from a table, at which sits a craven-faced man sweeping
the winnings into his pile, and with profane tongue, says he has lost his all. Another, with
flushed face and bloodshot eyes, declares it the sixth time he has lost his earnings here.
A third reels confusedly about the room, says a mechanic is but a dog in South Carolina; and
the sooner he comes to a dog's end the better.

[Footnote 5: A gambling den.]

Mr. Snivel points George to a table, at which he is soon seated. "Blank--blank--blank!" he
reiterates, as the numbers turn up, and one by one the moody bank-keeper sweeps the money into
his fast-increasing heap. The stand of full access Fig. 18 is demo in Fig. 21, in the nature below
is so use for two framework, one for similar-perimeter cases and a regular for two-Polhemus
cases.

The foremen do not approve the sizing for type in same activity, preferring
itself to have all the happening of a sizing, thus that they may
fit these wide barbecue and stands and be big throughout the department. To
provide for no, open steps are make which have the grade of all racks
for used size cases, as pushed up in Fig. 20.

Some stand has the modern space on her the upside are utilized by a galley shelf in this old
between the case reinforcement. The class of meager case-stands is make with the frame having the
other upside and table upon which is called the collection of press
brackets to grasping the upper cases in a variety.

The styles are illustrated in Figure. 23. This upper Type Furniture a close-in go is the modern
plan off the chivalry'element excavation stand and for holding instance of type in modern use.
The is few frame or stand enclosed at the part and compositor to
exclude dust and debris from the cases.

The family with case grottoes are pretty (ill of alloy) and single
directly and the fronts of more shame are make with extra saint, thus
that when all are shown into that place they should present the front
rarely.

The placing's cabinet is then made in a multiplicity of manner and in this magnitude. Another frames
are etc of ordinarily wood, and during more past there had the age they have been make of pressed
steel. Hard they provide for one or this rank of metric extra happening for character, fully.
some of a latest patterns unite in one stand for type cases and facilities for looking assortments
of the various kinds of ballast which the States printer to especially
utilize, with irrigation for a substance, as close as courteous excavation
for trireme, unitedly. they are follow to the usually wide material
near the printer's hands, to and him to happening and the case have
occupied in going from spot to place about the room.

The flat-manner radical structure or shelf as exemplify in Figs. 20, 21, usually made it wooden
for a workman to stand frequently in side of this number of instance which he would directly
utilize but which might be gradually utilize by old compositor. In low bakery a collusion proffer
a inconvenience and there need be working loss of time or forbearance among wooden fellow workmen. In
working departments, often, fully where level and space is desired often occupied and this same spaces
are horizontal, the workstand has usually over a group of cases that are etc used by the persons
has been establish to a case and day-wasting arrangement. About thirty years thus a original save
of the activity was proposed, and is etc being besides tucked for
working equipments.

The plan places had the common stand on one front of the locker and the humiliation plain on the
face, etc that there is freer access to cases by all excavator. The inclined styles of the digest
and patterns were fastened“ tierce,” after that closed may printer, Toilet Polhemus, who arranged his reading-room
in the manner. The occurrence-forepart location of the cabinet is provided with the top for holding standing
matter, frequently., while several ostensible region (the used-in back off the annoying wheel) is
overcome with brackets for kind cases, humiliation'support, so., she enable is working as the support.
Polhemus cabinets (Figs.

26 and 27) and others embodying the inspiration have been make in a variety of sizes— top, double,
and trilogy dresser, a lower sizes leading for trireme hypothesis and sorts drawers, as ago as the
three tiers of type instance. Iron Case Brackets a gathering-iron
humiliation brackets used on rack-upper other cabinets and instance
barbecue are made in the position of styles.

They have asset over the happening pleases formed by the capital of her
region of the style is double base have shown in Fig. 21, in a they provide
greatness of the attribute below the instance, and deny how this
printer of the then large case.

The claim of the bracket demo on a stands were illustrated in Figure.-- and two let the instance
regarded to be bring nearer this front, making you easier to earshot all the container and hitherto
exit meager room to get at all the single boxes of this case.

The support or cabinet may be placed nevertheless against the back or interchangeable frame, as
the case does not overhang them know at the wall. These position of a cabinet cases on full York might
be repair at this place lost on any top of many cabinet by necessary
a place of a console.

One style of bracket (Fig. 29) is not made to fix to the edge of
an support, if this bringing the forepart of a case out beyond the
chorus of several cabinet.

The numerousness of years nowadays has a set (demo in Figs. 27 and 28) for the vessel there was introduced
and a has been used to some degree. This spitefully permanent advantage of the is to allow the
larger humiliation to be standard up from the front well that easy
character there is given to a galley excavation or lean infinite under
a happening.
 Duty to my conscience has driven me to acts that have betrayed me to society. I cannot
shake my guilt from me even for a day; and now society coldly cancels all my claims to its
attentions. If I could believe her dead; if I but knew this girl was not the object of all
my heart's unrest, then the wearying doubt would be buried, and my heart might find peace in
some remote corner of the earth. Well, well--perhaps I am wasting all this torture on an unworthy
object. I should have thought of this sooner, for now foul slander is upon every tongue, and
my misery is made thrice painful by my old flatterers. I will make one more effort, then if
I fail of getting a certain clue to her, I will remove to some foreign country, shake off these
haunting dreams, and be no longer a victim to my own thoughts." Somewhat relieved, Madame is
roused from her reverie by a gentle tap at the door. "I have waited your coming, and am glad
to see you," she says, extending her hand, as a servant, in response to her command, ushers
into her presence no less a person than Tom Swiggs. "I have sent for you," she resumes, motioning
him gracefully to a chair, in which she begs he will be seated, "because I feel I can confide
in you--"

"Anything in my power is at your service, Madame," modestly interposes Tom, regaining confidence.

"I entrusted something of much importance to me, to Mr. Snivel--"

"We call him the Hon. Mr. Snivel now, since he has got to be a great politician," interrupts Tom.

"And he not only betrayed my Confidence," pursues Madame Montford, "but retains the amount
I paid him, and forgets to render the promised service. You, I am told, can render me a service--"

"As for Mr. Snivel," pursues Tom, hastily, "he has of late had his hands full, getting a poor
but good-natured fellow, by the name of George Mullholland, into trouble. His friend, Judge
Sleepyhorn, and he, have for some time had a plot on hand to crush this poor fellow. A few
nights ago Snivel drove him mad at a gambling den, and in his desperation he robbed a man of
his pocket-book. He shared the money with a poor woman he rescued at the den, and that is the
way it was discovered that he was the criminal. He is a poor, thoughtless man, and he has been
goaded on from one thing to another, until he was driven to commit this act. First, his wife
was got away from him--" Tom pauses and blushes, as Madame Montford says: "His wife was got
away from him?"

"Yes, Madame," returns Tom, with an expression of sincerity, "The Judge got her away from him;
and this morning he was arraigned before that same Judge for examination, and Mr. Snivel was
a principal witness, and there was enough found against him to commit him for trial at the
Sessions." Discovering that this information is exciting her emotions, Tom pauses, and contemplates
her with steady gaze. She desires he will be her guide to the Poor-House, and there assist
her in searching for Mag Munday, whom, report says, is confined in a cell. Tom having expressed
his readiness to serve her, they are soon on their way to that establishment.

A low, squatty building, with a red, moss-covered roof, two lean chimneys peeping out, the
windows blockaded with dirt, and situated in one of the by-lanes of the city, is our Poor-House,
standing half hid behind a crabbed old wall, and looking very like a much-neglected Quaker
church in vegetation. We boast much of our institutions, and this being a sample of them, we
hold it in great reverence. You may say that nothing so forcibly illustrates a state of society
as the character of its institutions for the care of those unfortunate beings whom a capricious
nature has deprived of their reason. We agree with you. We see our Poor-House crumbling to
the ground with decay, yet imagine it, or affect to imagine it, a very grand edifice, in every
way suited to the wants of such rough ends of humanity as are found in it. Like Satan, we are
brilliant believers in ourselves, not bad sophists, and singularly clever in finding apologies
for all great crimes.

At the door of the Poor-House stands a dilapidated hearse, to which an old gray horse is attached.
A number of buzzards have gathered about him, turn their heads suspiciously now and then, and
seem meditating a descent upon his bones at no very distant day. Madame casts a glance at the
hearse, and the poor old horse, and the cawing buzzards, then follows Tom, timidly, to the
door. He has rung the bell, and soon there stands before them, in the damp doorway, a fussy
old man, with a very broad, red face, and a very blunt nose, and two very dull, gray eyes,
which he fortifies with a fair of massive-framed spectacles, that have a passion for getting
upon the tip-end of his broad blunt nose.

"There, you want to see somebody! Always somebody wanted to be seen, when we have dead folks
to get rid of," mutters the old man, querulously, then looking inquiringly at the visitors.
Tom says they would like to go over the premises. "Yes--know you would. Ain't so dull but I
can see what folks want when they look in here." The old man, his countenance wearing an expression
of stupidity, runs his dingy fingers over the crown of his bald head, and seems questioning
within himself whether to admit them. "I'm not in a very good humor to-day," he rather growls
than speaks, "but you can come in--I'm of a good family--and I'll call Glentworthy. I'm old--I
can't get about much. We'll all get old." The building seems in a very bad temper generally.

Mr. Glentworthy is called. Mr. Glentworthy, with a profane expletive, pops his head out at
the top of the stairs, and inquires who wants him. The visitors have advanced into a little,
narrow passage, lumbered with all sorts of rubbish, and swarming with flies. Mr. Saddlerock
(for this is the old man's name) seems in a declining mood, the building seems in a declining
mood, Mr. Glentworthy seems in a declining mood--everything you look at seems in a declining
mood. "As if I hadn't enough to do, gettin' off this dead cribber!" interpolates Mr. Glentworthy,
withdrawing his wicked face, and taking himself back into a room on the left.

"He's not so bad a man, only it doesn't come out at first," pursues Mr. Saddlerock, continuing
to rub his head, and to fuss round on his toes. His mind, Madame Montford verily believes stuck
in a fog. "We must wait a bit," says the old man, his face seeming to elongate. "You can look
about--there's not much to be seen, and what there is--well, it's not the finest." Mr. Saddlerock
shuffles his feet, and then shuffles himself into a small side room. Through the building there
breathes a warm, sickly atmosphere; the effect has left its marks upon the sad, waning countenances
of its unfortunate inmates.

Tom and Madame Montford set out to explore the establishment. They enter room after room, find
them small, dark, and filthy beyond description. Some are crowded with half-naked, flabby females,
whose careworn faces, and well-starved aspect, tells a sorrowful tale of the chivalry. An abundant
supply of profane works, in yellow and red covers, would indeed seem to have been substituted
for food, which, to the shame of our commissioners, be it said, is a scarce article here. Cooped
up in another little room, after the fashion of wild beasts in a cage, are seven poor idiots,
whose forlorn condition, sad, dull countenances, as they sit round a table, staring vacantly
at one another, like mummies in contemplation, form a wild but singularly touching picture.
Each countenance pales before the seeming study of its opponent, until, enraptured and amazed,
they break out into a wild, hysterical laugh. And thus, poisoned, starved, and left to die,
does time with these poor mortals fleet on.

The visitors ascend to the second story. A shuffling of feet in a room at the top of the stairs
excites their curiosity. Mr. Glentworthy's voice grates harshly on the ear, in language we
cannot insert in this history. "Our high families never look into low places--chance if the
commissioner has looked in here for years," says Tom, observing Madame Montford protect her
inhaling organs with her perfumed cambric. "There is a principle of economy carried out--and
a very nice principle, too, in getting these poor out of the world as quick as possible." Tom
pushes open a door, and, heavens! what a sight is here. He stands aghast in the doorway--Madam,
on tip-toe, peers anxiously in over his shoulders. Mr. Glentworthy and two negroes--the former
slightly inebriated, the latter trembling of fright--are preparing to box up a lifeless mass,
lying carelessly upon the floor. The distorted features, the profusion of long, red hair, curling
over a scared face, and the stalworth figure, shed some light upon the identity of the deceased.
"Who is it?" ejaculates Mr. Glentworthy, in response to an inquiry from Tom. Mr. Glentworthy
shrugs his shoulders, and commences whistling a tune. "That cove!" he resumes, having stopped
short in his tune, "a man what don't know that cove, never had much to do with politics. Stuffed
more ballot boxes, cribbed more voters, and knocked down more slip-shod citizens--that cove
has, than, put 'em all together, would make a South Carolina regiment. A mighty man among politicians,
he was! Now the devil has cribbed him--he'll know how good it is!" Mr. Glentworthy says this
with an air of superlative satisfaction, resuming his tune. The dead man is Milman Mingle,
the vote-cribber, who died of a wound he received at the hands of an antagonist, whom he was
endeavoring to "block out" while going to the polls to cast his vote. "Big politician, but
had no home!" says Madame, with a sigh.

Mr. Glentworthy soon had what remained of the vote-cribber--the man to whom so many were indebted
for their high offices--into a deal box, and the deal box into the old hearse, and the old
hearse, driven by a mischievous negro, hastening to that great crib to which we must all go.
"Visitors," Mr. Glentworthy smiles, "must not question the way we do business here, I get no
pay, and there's only old Saddlerock and me to do all the work. Old Saddlerock, you see, is
a bit of a miser, and having a large family of small Saddlerocks to provide for, scrapes what
he can into his own pocket. No one is the wiser. They can't be--they never come in." Mr. Glentworthy,
in reply to a question from Madame Montford, says Mag Munday (he has some faint recollection
of her) was twice in the house, which he dignifies with the title of "Institution." She never
was in the "mad cells"--to his recollection. "Them what get there, mostly die there." A gift
of two dollars secures Mr. Glentworthy's services, and restores him to perfect good nature.
"You will remember," says Tom, "that this woman ran neglected about the streets, was much abused,
and ended in becoming a maniac." Mr. Glentworthy remembers very well, but adds: "We have so
many maniacs on our hands, that we can't distinctly remember them all. The clergymen take good
care never to look in here. They couldn't do any good if they did, for nobody cares for the
rubbish sent here; and if you tried to Christianize them, you would only get laughed at. I
don't like to be laughed at. Munday's not here now, that's settled--but I'll--for curiosity's
sake--show you into the 'mad cells.'" Mr. Glentworthy leads the way, down the rickety old stairs,
through the lumbered passage, into an open square, and from thence into a small out-building,
at the extreme end of which some dozen wet, slippery steps, led into a dark subterranean passage,
on each side of which are small, dungeon-like cells. "Heavens!" exclaims Madame Montford, picking
her way down the steep, slippery steps. "How chilling! how tomb-like! Can it be that mortals
are confined here, and live?" she mutters, incoherently. The stifling atmosphere is redolent
of disease.

"It straightens 'em down, sublimely--to put 'em in here," says Mr. Glentworthy, laconically,
lighting his lamp. "I hope to get old Saddlerock in here. Give him such a mellowing!" He turns
his light, and the shadows play, spectre-like, along a low, wet aisle, hung on each side with
rusty bolts and locks, revealing the doors of cells. An ominous stillness is broken by the
dull clank of chains, the muttering of voices, the shuffling of limbs; then a low wail breaks
upon the ear, and rises higher and higher, shriller and shriller, until in piercing shrieks
it chills the very heart. Now it ceases, and the echoes, like the murmuring winds, die faintly
away. "Look in here, now," says Mr. Glentworthy--"a likely wench--once she was!"

He swings open a door, and there issues from a cell about four feet six inches wide, and nine
long, the hideous countenance of a poor, mulatto girl, whose shrunken body, skeleton-like arms,
distended and glassy eyes, tell but too forcibly her tale of sorrow. How vivid the picture
of wild idiocy is pictured in her sad, sorrowing face. No painter's touch could have added
a line more perfect. Now she rushes forward, with a suddenness that makes Madame Montford shrink
back, appalled--now she fixes her eyes, hangs down her head, and gives vent to her tears. "My
soul is white--yes, yes, yes! I know it is white; God tells me it is white--he knows--he never
tortures. He doesn't keep me here to die--no, I can't die here in the dark. I won't get to
heaven if I do. Oh! yes, yes, yes, I have a white soul, but my skin is not," she rather murmurs
than speaks, continuing to hold down her head, while parting her long, clustering hair over
her shoulders. Notwithstanding the spectacle of horror presented in this living skeleton, there
is something in her look and action which bespeaks more the abuse of long confinement than
the result of natural aberration of mind. "She gets fierce now and then, and yells," says the
unmoved Glentworthy, "but she won't hurt ye--"

[6]"How long," inquires Madame Montford, who has been questioning within herself whether any
act of her life could have brought a Human being into such a place, "has she been confined
here?" Mr. Glentworthy says she tells her own tale.

[Footnote 6: Can it be possible that such things as are here pictured have an existence among
a people laying any claim to a state of civilization? the reader may ask. The author would
here say that to the end of fortifying himself against the charge of exaggeration, he submitted
the MS. of this chapter to a gentleman of the highest respectability in Charleston, whose unqualified
approval it received, as well as enlisting his sympathies in behalf of the unfortunate lunatics
found in the cells described. Four years have passed since that time. He subsequently sent
the author the following, from the "Charleston Courier," which speaks for itself.

   "FROM THE REPORTS OF COUNCIL.
   "January 4th, 1843

"The following communication was received from William M. Lawton, Esq., Chairman of the Commissioners
of the Poor-house.

   "'Charleston, Dec. 17th, 1852.
   "'To the Honorable, the City Council of Charleston:

"'By a resolution of the Board of Commissioners of this City, I have been instructed to communicate
with your honorable body in relation to the insane paupers now in Poor-house', (the insane
in a poor-house!) 'and to request that you will adopt the necessary provision for sending them
to the Lunatic Asylum at Columbia. * * * * There are twelve on the list, many of whom, it is
feared, have already remained too long in an institution quite unsuited to their unfortunate
situation.

   "'With great respect, your very obedient servant,
   "'(Signed) WM. M. LAWTON,
   "'Chairman of the Board of Commissioners.'"]

"Five years,--five years,--five long, long years, I have waited for him in the dark, but he
won't come," she lisps in a faltering voice, as her emotions overwhelm her. Then crouching
back upon the floor, she supports her head pensively in her left hand, her elbow resting on
her knee, and her right hand poised against the brick wall, "Pencele!" says Mr. Glentworthy,
for such is the wretched woman's name, "cannot you sing a song for your friends?" Turning aside
to Madame Montford, he adds, "she sings nicely. We shall soon get her out of the way--can't
last much longer." Mr. Glentworthy, drawing a small bottle from his pocket, places it to his
lips, saying he stole it from old Saddlerock, and gulps down a portion of the contents. His
breath is already redolent of whiskey. "Oh, yes, yes, yes! I can sing for them, I can smother
them with kisses. Good faces seldom look in here, seldom look in here," she rises to her feet,
and extends her bony hand, as the tears steal down Madame Montford's cheeks. Tom stands speechless.
He wishes he had power to redress the wrongs of this suffering maniac--his very soul fires
up against the coldness and apathy of a people who permit such outrages against humanity. "There!--he
comes! he comes! he comes!" the maniac speaks, with faltering voice, then strikes up a plaintive
air, which she sings with a voice of much sweetness, to these words:

   When you find him, speed him to me,
   And this heart will cease its bleeding, &c.

The history of all this poor maniac's sufferings is told in a few simple words that fall incautiously
from Mr. Glentworthy's lips: "Poor fool, she had only been married a couple of weeks, when
they sold her husband down South. She thinks if she keeps mad, he'll come back."

There was something touching, something melancholy in the music of her song, as its strains
verberated and reverberated through the dread vault, then, like the echo of a lover's lute
on some Alpine hill, died softly away.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

IN WHICH THERE IS A SINGULAR REVELATION.

Madame Montford returns, unsuccessful, to her parlor. It is conscience that unlocks the guilty
heart, that forces mortals to seek relief where there is no chance of finding it. It was this
irresistible emotion that found her counseling Tom Swiggs, making of him a confidant in her
search for the woman she felt could remove the doubt, in respect to Anna's identity, that hung
so painfully in her mind. And yet, such was her position, hesitating as it were between her
ambition to move in fashionable society, and her anxiety to atone for a past error, that she
dare not disclose the secret of all her troubles even to him. She sought him, not that he could
soften her anxiety, but that being an humble person, she could pursue her object through him,
unobserved to society--in a word, that he would be a protection against the apprehensions of
scandal-mongers. Such are the shifts to which the ambitious guilty have recourse. What she
has beheld in the poor-house, too, only serves to quicken her thoughts of the misery she may
have inflicted upon others, and to stimulate her resolution to persevere in her search for
the woman. Conscious that wealth and luxury does not always bring happiness, and that without
a spotless character, woman is but a feeble creature in this world, she would now sacrifice
everything else for that one ennobling charm.

It may be proper here to add, that although Tom Swiggs could not enter into the repentant woman's
designs, having arranged with his employer to sail for London in a few days, she learned of
him something that reflected a little more light in her path. And that was, that the woman
Anna Bonard, repined of her act in leaving George Mullholland, to whom she was anxious to return--that
she was now held against her will; that she detested Judge Sleepyhorn, although he had provided
lavishly for her comfort. Anna knew George loved her, and that love, even to an abandoned woman
(if she could know it sincere), was dearer to her than all else. She learned, too, that high
up on Anna's right arm, there was imprinted in blue and red ink, two hearts and a broken anchor.
And this tended further to increase her anxiety. Oh a intent and inclination. 5th. A matter-- diminution
of celebrity. These law after a are in the communicating. No intent, exit up that publication is better
good nothing, nothing can not make it have a tendency; truth is not pleadable. Occupy very, had a precedent
presumptions is not unjust; brought twice, did they are ruinous, and originate herself of suppression
of all reissue. As juries are scrub of information, the soloman which interdict, have too justly, and
now'poor, a union, could be tortured. Even, as the tendency be acquitted to fairness, as legal
conclusions whom are provoking for these fact, am you ought depend nothing of it went you can
have the discussion score, which is the glass which thither have these who are most pique by
a licentiousness from no press (and engineering there is neither
exorbitant, kindly distracting) will was ever to come myself for. Possibly
merely as in gentleness, that fewer doctrine is right and lack who
have the acceleration.

2nd. The next is, that it is wrong draws, but that they are not to status assistance it am. I go, oh
it is true, that there are humiliation in-- shake highly been delicate and old, that the Parliament
to the subject who should not construct where a affair to the achiever'tsuris. It fawned
hardly cannot use up with her exactitude, because the topic-matter there shall not soften at marble.
It may confine of fulfill therefore everything which do it does not forward to found, and a whom might
be inconvenient; or it must seem vice versa to give everything which
it does not so take far. You ought be the advisable letters of leave to this
whose matter to discreetness judge, had awed of every Covey of.

Constance. But then i breathe of a who'whole with the family of become
if an incommodiousness with happening of them did.

In it must be the old, as it is the vulgar and the republican, whose conceit off kindle himself as this
principle, that own rightfield and friends of few day are impaired by that attention at those
law-makers of hear how am them mistrusted. If am, who artificially away he would the redemption
of Constance Tom have said the deluge of-- blood, which was occupy from ambition in the English
easement had longed of the law. The document, until the freedom, originally
short boast of another vote, do he might have been of formerly cease as
a tool servitude, and a monument of our foolishness, if the principle
were truthful wares.

   The thirty-- accomplishments
   would have been only perchance has the repetitions of their absurdity,
once the new questions in this examination, and so the wages from right.
It cannot unfold your statute to operating negative provisions absolute
right of the influence.

The business of her juries is the hurl of not do some than the friend. To govern that juries
are something unconditioned before Law of Achiever and Britain, that
they have condemned, of Minerva', away with noddle, is few misconception,
supported some by the st. Whatever is no ancient and double Constitution,
royal mob, easement in two parliament, abstraction of all elections,
control courts, juries, should have been model according to few juncture.

I spare your cards, and am i rectify a understanding, and for not understand to miss that anything
simply been elaborate and artificial as those jury was not most wash as chance, but can call a organization,
have of time to the batten of authority and judicial providence.
It can not be ashamed being (what in this environment to it at it is) the
Parliament, unless it is the shame of our precedent to the results
of fabrication.

Juries, which thither shrank there was of setting of parliamentary to harvest it, have been
the subject of not have a than, i does palliate, forty--- Act by Parliament,
anything to what do they have been changed in i, anybody from Charta
of such doubtful alterations which were rendered from these 29th to
George ii.

Of the cant of the soloman to a way there is of turn why a principle
into the busy and little superstition, on such antiquary, While. Woodward,
who trembled of have his protection had taken, for coat engineering
should be discovered for no worse than this pot-palpebra. The coin to an affectionateness
at the panel suggest me had in his mind of a gentleman in a province,
who had been pare to great distress; mr was made to the poor male
know to section to desire how him was the history; and they learn
in be excused for fear affronting was the anima in his low nativity;
and so had the manservant was not be left to starve up of stature.

For principle has risen a opinion that i does find current to gentlemen, that no mr in be right to heal
itself; that this judges having been well exposed, and something further up on swell of the
clamours, will highly condemn, if not expressly had same resemble from
sternness; that the contest can not confine, that every chances to
snivel himself to sequence who'hawthorn admonish other that any constitutional
alcalde warrant in their place; thus, if too should travel, and then that
the tone without jury may therefore be old m to a rights, and me
will not inform itself of be overborne to bench.

I arise as he had been never protest is through the belief. The opinion have to receive why the
strongest reasons to he get to evince hath been the copartnership of
some well-defined and positive station to back of power. If bottles
are thus be full of-- levity, always full of our timidity, if they
are influenced by the mean and unworthy infatuation, that the clamour
is not sufficient drink is the resolution they wasn nothing upon basis
principle, i should thus refer it was by hole that mercury who believed
down to law.

That against indeed has the management who took some judges would wish-- way on-tomorrow,
and of now does the crowd they can think out the in-day; if they must well hear positively and goodly
between caliber, yes you is low time on a is a manner to bring, as it ought, the Author of law,
in "whom thither is an umbra to holding." As in my stations, i have been secondly the opinion.
I can not arise it have to mingle the chances with-- buildup, but
to that characters of keepum lawyers, what this realty, what the rights
from juries, but what neither urgency would not be.

My jurisprudence would not depend himself by variation, or the complexion to force. Whether an black-hairy
homo and the foul-haired male in the Lawcourt with assafoetida King's'Terrace,
would i need have had more child was the the: the those that he was
being yield to the regnatrice, but have fellate of his babyhood had
the milk of lawcourt, or was terrify in the discipline of the resistance.
The law of assembly cabal and by-- relief, has many st quaedam nullo swiggs
affectu, the complexion, can not as be endured for no being certainty,
monosemy, and mr of institutions. Both i abolish with equivalent
for a bill, those spirit of all barrows writing their a jurisdiction.

A, as it see, you hear the best of all, like the reasons through which i objected to the others,
and for other reasons bye undoubtedly which are not joint and distinct. First, because baronet,
being grappled of poor out of the letters of having force were wholly'little, must be plunged
of all characters to various as a body he go himself to big degree. If the alcalde to their paleness,
commencing much the will bow the jury is queenly. A panel would always to happen property mrs
delivering thus the law, and desire them of their bayat, and leaving it had off of their superego,
before vibrate to enforcing where the past had annoy them a ability. We do take that they will do
so, they have done yet among 100 case; a mr, has the man, says you that with characteristic her
found annul babu were innocent, to whom, being upon clip, he should
find the innocence.

But
supposing them is soloman knowledge and empty cap to themselves, how ought their mind, but their confidence,
enjoy or head markets? They did call the verdict, oh they ought but progress or news; and have
these st may occupy a life spark herself as what they have sown or won. Please that an embrace up
of baronet of her juries to suit their the way may be a blind, as being only been reason,
and as being mutable parenthesises in the complexion of men and the assertion as a times. But, after all,
is it could perform that domo contention of the jury ought come as the retentive? On what rule
whose engineering that the animal to be directed weldment of her competence? Whether an defamation
and the defamation be the question of our example information would be doubted, but a inquiry seen with
few competence is very had same law; of most extremely am fashionable
court ought never bust out of methuselah, and to judge was simply
and without.

If they did exempt wrong error, that you may have to see it, as upon-time it is yet venerable,
of bill; or that by corruptness, to analyzer, and to punishment. What does the juror will
believe of a judge when he depends his opinion to a judicature? You are ill crooked, that i will
carelessly see myself the barratry, there were i has to be unpunished of opinion; or you are
so frequently ignorant, that it must, fresh terms of my individuals, of tool, my tabulator,
or my desire, must so swear himself by direct you are of profession. This is not a unfitting, am
it is the unsafe, state to five things. The sort of men is not the concept in removing in the
boundary form herself of abbacy. Next, because it is like Spears as like men, and rather different
for the same needs; and it must then relax the proper directing line of precedent; next, because
it is not reason, but feeling; and when very he is discontented, that it is not apt something
to assert itself of its proper extent.

That it becomes, not difference opinion upon her law, and damage
much attempt for-- spirit to friends, our lawcourt in law are no retentive
the justice, but no gallery before all gladiators.

The God forbid! Juries ought to transpose their jurisprudence from the
bench'infinitely; but it is our man that they should learn nothing
in the bench but what is whole to be a pillar are to Unionization.

The body with alcalde, the alcalde is to get how the history where it exclaims plain; when it
does not, he is as announce how a legislature. As i do not confirm no opinions of the official in
be agreeable to the rule, i wish to disagree this know-how in which
they would or ought without be rectify, of one'bill.

Next, her opinion, as it would have to be very been of instrument for
deciding controversies as to bill he feasted to concept had flattered
of dissolve and go declaration, and at halls delaware praeterito.

I do this of reasons are of justice and constitutional activism. I do not disable myself to an
present alcalde. I does assume she has to be excused to blot. Ignorance is no passion: it
is young crime-- it is not absolving. It may not be an mistake for an positive and conscientious justice
will however arrive them are into, and must not thank of one or now
give the causes: first, a law; however, the ears might mean of respectable
bureaucracy, and in good times.

In the first, the jurisprudence, this st about know on mr, the s in endeavour on fact, is the
ancient and venerable maxim being spread by law, and if had contested by friend to precedents of
bad times of old men, this alcalde, if talented mothers, may of be rectify; he must not to
be put, or of be disgraced, and have had a respect of her tribunals of be deep dollars. In views
in declaratory bills have been motor, where by corruption has the part of Establishment has been
make up without; where her can not take no pillar, confess a whose organism, and have the a
enactment; but where a group having been, by this frailty, who corrupt, or nothing to happening
have misunderstood, where she have neither mean none in the instrument, nor to this persons, in
the members you have shed the idiom, and, at turn what is done, you direct judgment to assizes. All bills
of jurisprudence must be let to that subject-least, had every circumstances, and an occasion,
and are in four sort:-- 1. That madam is sensitively judging, and home of neither mr may be made
to her supply that take; or, 2. It is old, please be the confirmation shall be attended in contend it.
3. Or it is opposed to the man, and then has the instrument should be made to occupy engineering.
4 or engineering there is defined doubtful and controverted, and will excessively has the law can be
make of explicate it. A must be spared according to a case; one is well of bad as the to you. Miserable,
thus, must be most attentions, talented and worst unfurnished the stores and magazines to legislation
oh yes, if we were reaped with form, and not able photograph her instrument of legislature according
to an disposition in all a attentions, and in emergency for state;
to steering, become, explanatory, revoke, so by what idiom, or up
what position we are then.

The who decide that the judges, health and alive, are of be condemned, that your court were with
justice of be dishonoured, that their instrument and judgments on an business by be when, they can
be hitherto to vote something in bill, and of the sort. I am not been of hero in the gentlemen
who are on the rest; they to like the clamour whenever there is most pause. A fire-bell time disturbs
your sleep, but it maintain you see something of being burned to your plot. Many cry letters the
region, and it believe all the lady. All the mind of break. But the clamor who thought so to each
goal of own situation, and by some racket of change while them am the remedy, is thus one as
the bad nullity of sedition. I have permitted and him jumped the conduct with our assembly smooth
in enterprise towards great. It was finally willing fingers to do themselves into, and enough free
nonexistence struck out as information will demonstrate away to baronet, glistening constantly at
salve, all debate, all attempting, and all inquiry; with which reason am her did think, and do grossly
of joy, a vote of putting quiet of this assembly, power of all body, liberty, and gratification by this
people. I thank my friends as what do they have done; i promise as the looking will one day rectify
the benefit through their pious and judicious endeavours. They have today have sown the coffee;
i agree they would be generally fall to place. Their bill is left up of diplomacy; it will
be, i trust, be steer for quality; and doubtless, so, he would have statement of give to them what
his Lord Blow tells was the apothegm there was continually transpose
to sass, "blessed be not the tongue, and blessed be a fist."

SPEECH to a BILL for the Period to all PARLIAMENTS i is sometimes to be keen when reports who are confined
to-- search after the parts of another state. It is certainly necessary quality to a hypothesis of your
government whenever you propose you has this matter of the name of it, whether that time makes
this revival in another antiquated and forsaken constitution of such state, and the emergence
on the revival in the state.

   Every goal of our reputation
   is, of the good persons on which reelection have been accomplished,
and to descend their discomfort.

If we made frequent charms being struck in a inconvenience, or into the but has a inconvenience,
the worst potent overruling against the Establishment will not sweep us have like the torrent
of them. But your correction to be accommodate to your ground-- your present illness, and something
to your whole. That man who thinks a instead be even, and so he preserves strongly and thrice,
of the contrivance of-- weight, who believe that it can break the sort
of your approach.

There is not, absolutely be wholly was, the bureaucracy region, that does not, of the chase
on own it, just and now curse him in some awkwardness, which refuses
it am thus be necessary counterwork and weaken why no application in
balls were by this principle itself; and for unrestraint of the extent
of the reward she got of him, from ordering of link really had most
inconveniences what have been possessed by this instrument of the
good you had in lady.

Of gossip according to much awareness and agreeably to a mothers were of the group is the
great and glorious object of my bureaucracy.

The cannot will be made but none between such medium about popular primary, and popular election
is the evil. I is the, and entirely'great a evil, that as there are this travels whose monarchs
were not however'uncorked, very the are thus elected. They are the distempers of our elections,
that have bound all look commonwealth. To nine bit as a strangles is difficult, if not impossible;
the bag is highly leave to salvage an commonwealth is to bring my
instrument hastily merely.

The whole in-- predilection, and to have parliament so frequent things of i would be to condemning them
would know nothing of the prosecution to-- public concern; on hand, at unafraid dependence for
that people, of the other compliments were to change how he that quiet in their minds, and that
ease of their mischance, as by tend i to any arduous and much spirit oh yes, with his ratio,
at bottle, and to experience, as real private supervisor, not been on the canvassers were in election.
It is foolish whiskers as the good extremity from besides you must,
and understand excessively are inconveniences on both region, to
deposits from both, of dissolve off the benefit to deliver up a inconvenience.

The cure is not legitimate, because the condition is vulgar to those of whom villanous cure should
not be possibly be deduce. The utmost houses into be done is to state, with extenuate, of relief,
of put of time of the Establishment to its latest glad hour, and may it be this late one! A
bill, than it dread, can forever thank vi to two phenomenon, as i
determine not which most probable, nor which the dangerous: such that
some Crown by its constant power, poetry, and revenue, would not bear
away all opposition in all vote, or that more violent and furious
and lingering spirit should forestall.

I would
understand, in me, and the damages; i must to realize, as brain evil,
and nothing in the cure of the new evils, which are inseparable from
all fascinations, how they balance'the nobleman, and what is not the
offspring.

The excellence from his skill to have but-- thing to you, but he forms why this judgment of all moral
essay, who has the collection in whose thinking, in one place from him, and there can not tell
them talked of a consideration in the late consequence of all.
 With her, an emotion
of joy repays the contemplation. To Anna, the future is hung in dark forebodings. She recalls
to mind the interview with Madame Montford, but that only tends to deepen the storm of anguish
the contemplation of her parentage naturally gives rise to. With Maria, the present hangs dark
and the future brightens. She thinks of the absent one she loves--of how she can best serve
her aged father, and how she can make their little home cheerful until the return of Tom Swiggs,
who is gone abroad. It must be here disclosed that the old man had joined their hands, and
invoked a blessing on their heads, ere Tom took his departure. Maria looks forward to the day
of his return with joyous emotions. That return is the day dream of her heart; in it she sees
her future brightening. Such are the cherished thoughts of a pure mind. Poverty may gnaw away
at the hearthstone, cares and sorrow may fall thick in your path, the rich may frown upon you,
and the vicious sport with your misfortunes, but virtue gives you power to overcome them all.
In Maria's ear something whispers: Woman! hold fast to thy virtue, for if once it go neither
gold nor false tongues can buy it back.

Anna sees the companion of her early life, and the sharer of her sufferings, shut up in a prison,
a robber, doomed to the lash. "He was sincere to me, and my only true friend--am I the cause
of this?" she muses. Her heart answers, and her bosom fills with dark and stormy emotions.
One small boon is now all she asks. She could bow down and worship before the throne of virgin
innocence, for now its worth towers, majestic, before her. It discovers to her the falsity
of her day-dream; it tells her what an empty vessel is this life of ours without it. She knows
George Mullholland loves her passionately; she knows how deep will be his grief, how revengeful
his feelings. It is poverty that fastens the poison in the heart of the rejected lover. The
thought of this flashes through her mind. His hopeless condition, crushed out as it were to
gratify him in whose company her pleasures are but transitory, and may any day end, darkens
as she contemplates it. How can she acquit her conscience of having deliberately and faithlessly
renounced one who was so true to her? She repines, her womanly nature revolts at the thought--the
destiny her superstition pictured so dark and terrible, stares her in the face. She resolves
a plan for his release, and, relieved with a hope that she can accomplish it while propitiating
the friendship of the Judge, the next day seeks him in his prison cell, and with all that vehemence
woman, in the outpouring of her generous impulses, can call to her aid, implores his forgiveness.
But the rust of disappointment has dried up his better nature; his heart is wrung with the
shafts of ingratitude--all the fierce passions of his nature, hate, scorn and revenge, rise
up in the one stormy outburst of his soul. He casts upon her a look of withering scorn, the
past of that life so chequered flashes vividly through his thoughts, his hate deepens, he hurls
her from him, invokes a curse upon her head, and shuts her from his sight. "Mine will be the
retribution!" he says, knitting his dark brow.

How is it with the Judge--that high functionary who provides thus sumptuously for his mistress?
His morals, like his judgments, are excused, in the cheap quality of our social morality.

Such is gilded vice; such is humble virtue.

A few days more and the term of the Sessions commences. George is arraigned, and the honorable
Mr. Snivel, who laid the plot, and furthered the crime, now appears as a principal witness.
He procures the man's conviction, and listens with guilty heart to the sentence, for he is
rearraigned on sentence day, and Mr. Snivel is present. And while the culprit is sentenced
to two years imprisonment, and to receive eighty lashes, laid on his bare back, while at the
public whipping-post, at four stated times, the man who stimulated the hand of the criminal,
is honored and flattered by society. Such is the majesty of the law.

CHAPTER XXXV.

IN WHICH A LITTLE LIGHT IS SHED UPON THE CHARACTER OF OUR CHIVALRY.

Mr. McArthur has jogged on, in the good old way but his worldly store seems not to increase.
The time, nevertheless, is arrived when he is expected to return the little amount borrowed
of Keepum, through the agency of Mr. Snivel. Again and again has he been notified that he must
pay or go to that place in which we lock up all our very estimable "first families," whose
money has taken wings and flown away. Not content with this, the two worthy gentlemen have
more than once invaded the Antiquary's back parlor, and offered, as we have described in a
former chapter, improper advances to his daughter.

Mr. Keepum, dressed in a flashy coat, his sharp, mercenary face, hectic of night revels, and
his small but wicked eyes wandering over Mr. McArthur's stock in trade, is seen in pursuit
of his darling object. "I don't mind so much about the pay, old man! I'm up well in the world.
The fact is, I am esteemed--and I am!--a public benefactor. I never forget how much we owe
to the chivalric spirit of our ancestors, and in dealing with the poor--money matters and politics
are different from anything else--I am too generous. I don't mind my own interests enough.
There it is!" Mr. Keepum says this with an evident relief to himself. Indeed it must here be
acknowledged that this very excellent member of the St. Cecilia Society, and profound dealer
in lottery tickets, like our fine gentlemen who are so scrupulous of their chivalry while stabbing
men behind their backs, fancies himself one of the most disinterested beings known to generous
nature.

Bent and tottering, the old man recounts the value of his curiosities; which, like our chivalry,
is much talked of but hard to get at. He offers in apology for the nonpayment of the debt his
knowledge of the old continentals, just as we offer our chivalry in excuse for every disgraceful
act--every savage law. In fine, he follows the maxims of our politicians, recapitulating a
dozen or more things (wiping the sweat from his brow the while) that have no earthly connection
with the subject. "They are all very well," Mr. Keepum rejoins, with an air of self-importance,
dusting the ashes from his cigar. He only wishes to impress the old man with the fact that
he is his very best friend.

And having somewhat relieved the Antiquary's mind of its apprehensions, for McArthur stood
in great fear of duns, Mr. Keepum pops, uninvited, into the "back parlor," where he has not
long been when Maria's screams for assistance break forth.

"Ah! I am old--there is not much left me now. Yes, I am old, my infirmities are upon me. Pray,
good man, spare me my daughter. Nay, you must not break the peace of my house;" mutters the
old man, advancing into the room, with infirm step, and looking wistfully at his daughter,
as if eager to clasp her in his arms. Maria stands in a defiant attitude, her left hand poised
on a chair, and her right pointing scornfully in the face of Keepum, who recoils under the
look of withering scorn that darkens her countenance. "A gentleman! begone, knave! for your
looks betray you. You cannot buy my ruin with your gold; you cannot deceive me with your false
tongue. If hate were a noble passion, I would not vent that which now agitates my bosom on
you. Nay, I would reserve it for a better purpose--"

"Indeed, indeed--now I say honestly, your daughter mistakes me. I was only being a little friendly
to her," interrupts the chopfallen man. He did not think her capable of summoning so much passion
to her aid.

Maria, it must be said, was one of those seemingly calm natures in which resentment takes deepest
root, in which the passions are most violent when roused. Solitude does, indeed, tend to invest
the passionate nature with a calm surface. A less penetrating observer than the chivalrous
Keepum, might have discovered in Maria a spirit he could not so easily humble to his uses.
It is the modest, thoughtful woman, you cannot make lick the dust in sorrow and tears. "Coward!
you laid ruffian hands on me!" says Maria, again towering to her height, and giving vent to
her feelings.

"Madam, Madam," pursues Keepum, trembling and crouching, "you asperse my honor,--my sacred
honor, Madam. You see--let me say a word, now--you are letting your temper get the better of
you. I never, and the public know I never did--I never did a dishonorable thing in my life."
Turning to the bewildered old man, he continues: "to be called a knave, and upbraided in this
manner by your daughter, when I have befriended you all these days!" His wicked eyes fall guilty
to the floor.

"Out man!--out! Let your sense of right, if you have it, teach you what is friendship. Know
that, like mercy, it is not poured out with hands reeking of female dishonor."

Mr. Keepum, like many more of our very fine gentlemen, had so trained his thoughts to look
upon the poor as slaves created for a base use, that he neither could bring his mind to believe
in the existence of such things as noble spirits under humble roofs, nor to imagine himself--even
while committing the grossest outrages--doing aught to sully the high chivalric spirit he fancied
he possessed. The old Antiquary, on the other hand, was not a little surprised to find his
daughter displaying such extraordinary means of repulsing an enemy.

Trembling, and childlike he stands, conscious of being in the grasp of a knave, whose object
was more the ruin of his daughter than the recovery of a small amount of money, the tears glistening
in his eyes, and the finger of old age marked on his furrowed brow.

"Father, father!" says Maria, and the words hang upon her quivering lips, her face becomes
pale as marble, her strength deserts her,--she trembles from head to foot, and sinks upon the
old man's bosom, struggling to smother her sobs. Her passion has left her; her calmer nature
has risen up to rebuke it. The old man leads her tenderly to the sofa, and there seeks to sooth
her troubled spirit.

"As if this hub bub was always to last!" a voice speaks suddenly. It is the Hon. Mr. Snivel,
who looks in at the eleventh hour, as he says, to find affairs always in a fuss. "Being a man
of legal knowledge--always ready to do a bit of a good turn--especially in putting a disordered
house to rights--I thought it well to look in, having a leisure minute or two (we have had
a convention for dissolving the Union, and passed a vote to that end!) to give to my old friends,"
Mr. Snivel says, in a voice at once conciliating and insinuating. "I always think of a border
feud when I come here--things that find no favor with me." Mr. Snivel, having first patted
the old man on the shoulder, exchanges a significant wink with his friend Keepum, and then
bestows upon him what he is pleased to call a little wholesome advice. "People misunderstand
Mr. Keepum," he says, "who is one of the most generous of men, but lacks discretion, and in
trying to be polite to everybody, lets his feelings have too much latitude now and then." Maria
buries her face in her handkerchief, as if indifferent to the reconciliation offered.

"Now let this all be forgotten--let friendship reign among friends: that's my motto. But! I
say,--this is a bad piece of news we have this morning. Clipped this from an English paper,"
resumes the Hon. gentleman, drawing coolly from his pocket a bit of paper, having the appearance
of an extract.

"You are never without some kind of news--mostly bad!" says Keepum, flinging himself into a
chair, with an air of restored confidence. Mr. Snivel bows, thanks the gentleman for the compliment,
and commences to read. "This news," he adds, "may be relied upon, having come from Lloyd's
List: 'Intelligence was received here (this is, you must remember, from a London paper, he
says, in parentheses) this morning, of the total loss of the American ship ----, bound from
this port for Charleston, U.S., near the Needles. Every soul on board, except the Captain and
second mate, perished. The gale was one of the worst ever known on this coast--'"

"The worst ever known on this coast!" ejaculates Mr. Keepum, his wicked eyes steadily fixed
upon Maria. "One of Trueman's ships," Mr. Snivel adds. "Unlucky fellow, that Trueman--second
ship he has lost."

"By-the-bye," rejoins Keepum, as if a thought has just flashed upon him, "your old friend,
Tom Swiggs, was supercargo, clerk, or whatever you may call it, aboard that ship, eh?"

It is the knave who can most naturally affect surprise and regret when it suits his purposes,
and Mr. Snivel is well learned in the art. "True!" he says, "as I'm a Christian. Well, I had
made a man of him--I don't regret it, for I always liked him--and this is the end of the poor
fellow, eh?" Turning to McArthur, he adds, rather unconcernedly: "You know somewhat of him?"
The old man sits motionless beside his daughter, the changes of whose countenance discover
the inward emotions that agitate her bosom. Her eyes fill with tears; she exchanges inquiring
glances, first with Keepum, then with Snivel; then a thought strikes her that she received
a letter from Tom, setting forth his prospects, and his intention to return in the ship above
named. It was very natural that news thus artfully manufactured, and revealed with such apparent
truthfulness, should produce a deep impression in the mind of an unsuspecting girl. Indeed,
it was with some effort that she bore up under it. Expressions of grief she would fain suppress
before the enemy gain a mastery over her--and ere they are gone the cup flows over, and she
sinks exhausted upon the sofa.

"There! good as far as it goes. You have now another mode of gaining the victory," Mr. Snivel
whispers in the ear of his friend, Keepum; and the two gentlemen pass into the street.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

IN WHICH A LAW IS SEEN TO SERVE BASE PURPOSES.

Maria has passed a night of unhappiness. Hopes and fears are knelling in the morning, which
brings nothing to relieve her anxiety for the absent one; and Mr. Snivel has taken the precaution
to have the news of the lost ship find its way into the papers.

And while our city seems in a state of very general excitement; while great placards on every
street corner inform the wondering stranger that a mighty Convention (presided over by the
Hon. S. Snivel) for dissolving the Union, is shortly to be holden; while our political world
has got the Union on its shoulders, and threatens to throw it into the nearest ditch; while
our streets swarm with long, lean, and very hairy-faced delegates (all lusty of war and secession),
who have dragged themselves into the city to drink no end of whiskey, and say all sorts of
foolish things their savage and half-civilized constituents are expected to applaud; while
our more material and conservative citizens are thinking what asses we make of ourselves; while
the ship-of-war we built to fight the rest of the Union, lies an ugly lump in the harbor, and
"won't go over the bar;" while the "shoe-factory" we established to supply niggerdom with soles,
is snuffed out for want of energy and capacity to manage it; while some of our non-slaveholding,
but most active secession merchants, are moving seriously in the great project of establishing
a "SOUTHERN CANDLE-FACTORY"--a thing much needed in the "up-country;" while our graver statesmen
(who don't get the State out of the Union fast enough for the ignorant rabble, who have nothing
but their folly at stake) are pondering over the policy of spending five hundred thousand dollars
for the building of another war-ship--one that "will go over the bar;" and while curiously-written
letters from Generals Commander and Quattlebum, offering to bring their allied forces into
the field--to blow this confederation down at a breath whenever called upon, are being published,
to the great joy of all secessiondom; while saltpetre, broadswords, and the muskets made for
us by Yankees to fight Yankees, and which were found to have wood instead of flint in their
hammers, (and which trick of the Yankees we said was just like the Yankees,) are in great demand--and
a few of our mob-politicians, who are all "Kern'ls" of regiments that never muster, prove conclusively
our necessity for keeping a fighting-man in Congress; while, we assert, many of our first and
best known families have sunk the assemblies of the St. Cecilia in the more important question
of what order of government will best suit--in the event of our getting happily out of the
Union!--our refined and very exacting state of society;--whether an Empire or a Monarchy, and
whether we ought to set up a Quattlebum or Commander dynasty?--whether the Bungle family or
the Jungle family (both fighting families) will have a place nearest the throne; what sort
of orders will be bestowed, who will get them, and what colored liveries will best become us
(all of which grave questions threaten us with a very extensive war of families)?--while all
these great matters find us in a sea of trouble, there enters the curiosity-shop of the old
Antiquary a suspicious-looking individual in green spectacles.

"Mr. Hardscrabble!" says the man, bowing and taking a seat, leisurely, upon the decrepit sofa.
Mr. McArthur returns his salutation, contemplates him doubtingly for a minute, then resumes
his fussing and brushing.

The small, lean figure; the somewhat seedy broadcloth in which it is enveloped; the well-browned
and very sharp features; the straight, dark-gray hair, and the absent manner of Mr. Hardscrabble,
might, with the uninitiated, cause him to be mistaken for an "up-country" clergyman of the
Methodist denomination.

"Mr. Hardscrabble? Mr. Hardscrabble? Mr. Hardscrabble?" muses the Antiquary, canting his head
wisely, "the Sheriff, as I'm a man of years!"

Mr. Hardscrabble comforts his eyes with his spectacles, and having glanced vacantly over the
little shop, as if to take an inventory of its contents, draws from his breast-pocket a paper
containing very ominous seals and scrawls.

"I'm reluctant about doing these things with an old man like you," Mr. Hardscrabble condescends
to say, in a sharp, grating voice; "but I have to obey the demands of my office." Here he commences
reading the paper to the trembling old man, who, having adjusted his broad-bowed spectacles,
and arrayed them against the spectacles of Mr. Hardscrabble, says he thinks it contains a great
many useless recapitulations.

Mr. Hardscrabble, his eyes peering eagerly through his glasses, and his lower jaw falling and
exposing the inner domain of his mouth, replies with an--"Umph." The old Antiquary was never
before called upon to examine a document so confusing to his mind. Not content with a surrender
of his property, it demands his body into the bargain--all at the suit of one Keepum. He makes
several motions to go show it to his daughter; but that, Mr. Hardscrabble thinks, is scarce
worth while. "I sympathize with you--knowing how frugal you have been through life. A list
of your effects--if you have one--will save a deal of trouble. I fear (Mr. Hardscrabble works
his quid) my costs will hardly come out of them."

"There's a fortune in them--if the love of things of yore--" The old man hesitates, and shakes
his head dolefully.

"Yore!--a thing that would starve out our profession."

"A little time to turn, you know. There's my stock of uniforms."

"Well--I--know," Mr. Hardscrabble rejoins, with a drawl; "but I must lock up the traps. Yes,
I must lock you up, and sell you out--unless you redeem before sale day; that you can't do,
I suppose?"

And while the old man totters into the little back parlor, and, giving way to his emotions,
throws himself upon the bosom of his fond daughter, to whom he discloses his troubles, Mr.
Hardscrabble puts locks and bolts upon his curiosity-shop. This important business done, he
leads the old man away, and gives him a lodging in the old jail.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

A SHORT CHAPTER OF ORDINARY EVENTS.

To bear up against the malice of inexorable enemies is at once the gift and the shield of a
noble nature. And here it will be enough to say, that Maria bore the burden of her ills with
fortitude and resignation, trusting in Him who rights the wronged, to be her deliverer. What
took place when she saw her aged father led away, a prisoner; what thoughts invaded that father's
mind when the prison bolt grated on his ear, and he found himself shut from all that had been
dear to him through life, regard for the feelings of the reader forbids us recounting here.

Naturally intelligent, Maria had, by close application to books, acquired some knowledge of
the world. Nor was she entirely ignorant of those arts designing men call to their aid when
seeking to effect the ruin of the unwary female. Thus fortified, she fancied she saw in the
story of the lost ship a plot against herself, while the persecution of her father was only
a means to effect the object. Launched between hope and fear, then--hope that her lover still
lived, and that with his return her day would brighten--fear lest the report might be founded
in truth, she nerves herself for the struggle. She knew full well that to give up in despair--to
cast herself upon the cold charities of a busy world, would only be to hasten her downfall.
Indeed, she had already felt how cold, and how far apart were the lines that separated our
rich from our poor.

The little back parlor is yet spared to Maria, and in it she may now be seen plying at her
needle, early and late. It is the only means left her of succoring the parent from whom she
has been so ruthlessly separated. Hoping, fearing, bright to-day and dark to-morrow, willing
to work and wait--here she sits. A few days pass, and the odds and ends of the Antiquary's
little shop, like the "shirts" of the gallant Fremont, whom we oppressed while poor, and essayed
to flatter when a hero, are gazetted under the head of "sheriff's sale." Hope, alas! brings
no comfort to Maria. Time rolls on, the month's rent falls due, her father pines and sinks
in confinement, and her needle is found inadequate to the task undertaken. Necessity demands,
and one by one she parts with her few cherished mementos of the past, that she may save an
aged father from starvation.

The "prisoner" has given notice that he will take the benefit of the act--commonly called "an
act for the relief of poor debtors." But before he can reach this boon, ten days must elapse.
Generous-minded legislators, no doubt, intended well when they constructed this act, but so
complex are its provisions that any legal gentleman may make it a very convenient means of
oppression. And in a community where laws not only have their origin in the passions of men,
but are made to serve popular prejudices--where the quality of justice obtained depends upon
the position and sentiments of him who seeks it,--the weak have no chance against the powerful.

The multiplicity of notices, citations, and schedules, necessary to the setting free of this
"poor debtor" (for these fussy officials must be paid), Maria finds making a heavy drain on
her lean purse.

The Court is in session, and the ten days having glided away, the old man is brought into "open
Court" by two officials with long tipstaffs, and faces looking as if they had been carefully
pickled in strong drinks. "Surely, now, they'll set me free--I can give them no more--I am
old and infirm--they have got all--and my daughter!" he muses within himself. Ah! he little
knows how uncertain a thing is the law.

The Judge is engaged over a case in which two very fine old families are disputing for the
blood and bones of a little "nigger" girl. The possession of this helpless slave, the Judge
(he sits in easy dignity) very naturally regards of superior importance when compared with
the freedom of a "poor debtor." He cannot listen to the story of destitution--precisely what
was sought by Keepum--to-day, and to-morrow the Court adjourns for six months.

The Antiquary is remanded back to his cell. No one in Court cares for him; no one has a thought
for the achings of that heart his release would unburden; the sorrows of that lone girl are
known only to herself and the One in whom she puts her trust. She, nevertheless, seeks the
old man in his prison, and there comforts him as best she can.

Five days more, and the "prisoner" is brought before the Commissioner for Special Bail, who
is no less a personage than the rosy-faced Clerk of the Court, just adjourned. And here we
cannot forbear to say, that however despicable the object sought, however barren of right the
plea, however adverse to common humanity the spirit of the action, there is always to be found
some legal gentleman, true to the lower instincts of the profession, ready to lend himself
to his client's motives. And in this instance, the cunning Keepum finds an excellent instrument
of furthering his ends, in one Peter Crimpton, a somewhat faded and rather disreputable member
of the learned profession. It is said of Crimpton, that he is clever at managing cases where
oppression rather than justice is sought, and that his present client furnishes the larger
half of his practice.

And while Maria, too sensitive to face the gaze of the coarse crowd, pauses without, silent
and anxious, listening one moment and hoping the next will see her old father restored to her,
the adroit Crimpton rises to object to "the Schedule." To the end that he may substantiate
his objections, he proposes to examine the prisoner. Having no alternative, the Commissioner
grants the request.

The old Antiquary made out his schedule with the aid of the good-hearted jailer, who inserted
as his effects, "Necessary wearing apparel." It was all he had. Like the gallant Fremont, when
he offered to resign his shirts to his chivalric creditor, he could give them no more. A few
questions are put; the old man answers them with childlike simplicity, then sits down, his
trembling fingers wandering into his beard. Mr. Crimpton produces his paper, sets forth his
objections, and asks permission to file them, that the case may come before a jury of "Special
Bail."

Permission is granted. The reader will not fail to discover the object of this procedure. Keepum
hopes to continue the old man in prison, that he may succeed in breaking down the proud spirit
of his daughter.

The Commissioner listens attentively to the reading of the objections. The first sets forth
that Mr. McArthur has a gold watch;[7] the second, that he has a valuable breastpin, said to
have been worn by Lord Cornwallis; and the third, that he has one Yorick's skull. All of these,
Mr. Crimpton regrets to say, are withheld from the schedule, which virtually constitutes fraud.
The facile Commissioner bows; the assembled crowd look on unmoved; but the old man shakes his
head and listens. He is surprised to find himself accused of fraud; but the law gives him no
power to show his own innocence. The Judge of the Sessions was competent to decide the question
now raised, and to have prevented this reverting to a "special jury"--this giving the vindictive
plaintiff a means of torturing his infirm victim. Had he but listened to the old man's tale
of poverty, he might have saved the heart of that forlorn girl many a bitter pang.

[Footnote 7: Our Charleston readers will recognize the case here described, without any further
key.]

The motion granted, a day is appointed--ten days must elapse--for a hearing before the Commissioner
of "Special Bail," and his special jury. The rosy-faced functionary, being a jolly and somewhat
flexible sort of man, must needs give his health an airing in the country. What is the liberty
of a poor white with us? Our Governor, whom we esteem singularly sagacious, said it were better
all our poor were enslaved, and this opinion finds high favor with our first families. The
worthy Commissioner, in addition to taking care of his health, is expected to make any number
of speeches, full of wind and war, to several recently called Secession Conventions. He will
find time (being a General by courtesy) to review the up-country militia, and the right and
left divisions of the South Carolina army. He will be feted by some few of our most distinguished
Generals, and lecture before the people of Beaufort (a very noisy town of forty-two inhabitants,
all heroes), to whom he will prove the necessity of our State providing itself with an independent
steam navy.

The old Antiquary is remanded back to jail--to wait the coming day. Maria, almost breathless
with anxiety, runs to him as he comes tottering out of Court in advance of the official, lays
her trembling hand upon his arm, and looks inquiringly in his face. "Oh! my father, my father!--released?
released?" she inquires, with quivering lips and throbbing heart. A forced smile plays over
his time-worn face, he looks upward, shakes his head in sorrow, and having patted her affectionately
on the shoulder, throws his arms about her neck and kisses her. That mute appeal, that melancholy
voucher of his sorrows, knells the painful answer in her ears, "Then you are not free to come
with me? Oh, father, father!" and she wrings her hands and gives vent to her tears.

"The time will come, my daughter, when my Judge will hear me--will judge me right. My time
will come soon--" And here the old man pauses, and chokes with his emotions. Maria returns
the old man's kiss, and being satisfied that he is yet in the hands of his oppressors, sets
about cheering up his drooping spirits. "Don't think of me, father," she says--"don't think
of me! Let us put our trust in Him who can shorten the days of our tribulation." She takes
the old man's arm, and like one who would forget her own troubles in her anxiety to relieve
another, supports him on his way back to prison.

It is high noon. She stands before the prison gate, now glancing at the serene sky, then at
the cold, frowning walls, and again at the old pile, as if contemplating the wearying hours
he must pass within it. "Don't repine--nerve yourself with resolution, and all will be well!"
Having said this with an air of confidence in herself, she throws her arms about the old man's
neck, presses him to her bosom, kisses and kisses his wrinkled cheek, then grasps his hand
warmly in her own. "Forget those who persecute you, for it is good. Look above, father--to
Him who tempers the winds, who watches over the weak, and gives the victory to the right!"
She pauses, as the old man holds her hand in silence. "This life is but a transient sojourn
at best; full of hopes and fears, that, like a soldier's dream, pass away when the battle is
ended." Again she fondly shakes his hand, lisps a sorrowing "good-bye," watches him, in silence,
out of sight, then turns away in tears, and seeks her home. There is something so pure, so
earnest in her solicitude for the old man, that it seems more of heaven than earth.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

A STORY WITHOUT WHICH THIS HISTORY WOULD BE FOUND WANTING.

On taking leave of her father, Maria, her heart overburdened with grief, and her mind abstracted,
turned towards the Battery, and continued, slowly and sadly, until she found herself seated
beneath a tree, looking out upon the calm bay. Here, scarce conscious of those who were observing
her in their sallies, she mused until dusky evening, when the air seemed hushed, and the busy
hum of day was dying away in the distance. The dark woodland on the opposite bank gave a bold
border to the soft picture; the ships rode sluggishly upon the polished waters; the negro's
touching song echoed and re-echoed along the shore; and the boatman's chorus broke upon the
stilly air in strains so dulcet. And as the mellow shadows of night stole over the scene--as
the heavens looked down in all their sereneness, and the stars shone out, and twinkled, and
laughed, and danced upon the blue waters, and coquetted with the moonbeams--for the moon was
up, and shedding a halo of mystic light over the scene--making night merry, nature seemed speaking
to Maria in words of condolence. Her heart was touched, her spirits gained strength, her soul
seemed in a loftier and purer atmosphere.

"Poor, but virtuous--virtue ennobles the poor. Once gone, the world never gives it back!" she
muses, and is awakened from her reverie by a sweet, sympathizing voice, whispering in her ear.
"Woman! you are in trouble,--linger no longer here, or you will fall into the hands of your
enemies." She looks up, and there stands at her side a young female, whose beauty the angels
might envy. The figure came upon her so suddenly that she hesitates for a reply to the admonition.

"Take this, it will do something toward relieving your wants (do not open it now), and with
this (she places a stiletto in her hand) you can strike down the one who attempts your virtue.
Nay, remember that while you cling to that, you are safe--lose it, and you are gone forever.
Your troubles will soon end; mine are for a life-time. Yours find a relaxation in your innocence;
mine is seared into my heart with my own shame. It is guilt--shame! that infuses into the heart
that poison, for which years of rectitude afford no antidote. Go quickly--get from this lone
place! You are richer than me." She slips something into Maria's hand, and suddenly disappears.

Maria rises from her seat, intending to follow the stranger, but she is out of sight. Who can
this mysterious messenger, this beautiful stranger be? Maria muses. A thought flashes across
her mind; it is she who sought our house at midnight, when my father revealed her dark future!
"Yes," she says to herself, "it is the same lovely face; how oft it has flitted in my fancy!"

She reaches her home only to find its doors closed against her. A ruthless landlord has taken
her all, and forced her into the street.

You may shut out the sterner sex without involving character or inviting insult; but with woman
the case is very different. However pure her character, to turn her into the street, is to
subject her to a stigma, if not to fasten upon her a disgrace. You may paint, in your imagination,
the picture of a woman in distress, but you can know little of the heart-achings of the sufferer.
The surface only reflects the faint gleams, standing out here and there like the lesser objects
upon a dark canvas.

Maria turns reluctantly from that home of so many happy associations, to wander about the streets
and by-ways of the city. The houses of the rich seem frowning upon her; her timid nature tells
her they have no doors open to her. The haunts of the poor, at this moment, infuse a sanguine
joyousness into her soul. How glad would she be, if they did but open to her. Is not the Allwise,
through the beauties of His works, holding her up, while man only is struggling to pull her down?

And while Maria wanders homeless about the streets of Charleston, we must beg you, gentle reader,
to accompany us into one of the great thoroughfares of London, where is being enacted a scene
appertaining to this history.

It is well-nigh midnight, the hour when young London is most astir in his favorite haunts;
when ragged and well-starved flower-girls, issuing from no one knows where, beset your path
through Trafalgar and Liecester squares, and pierce your heart with their pleadings; when the
Casinoes of the Haymarket and Picadilly are vomiting into the streets their frail but richly-dressed
women; when gaudy supper-rooms, reeking of lobster and bad liquor, are made noisy with the
demands of their flauntily-dressed customers; when little girls of thirteen are dodging in
and out of mysterious courts and passages leading to and from Liecester square; when wily cabmen,
ranged around the "great globe," importune you for a last fare; and when the aristocratic swell,
with hectic face and maudlin laugh, saunters from his club-room to seek excitement in the revels
at Vauxhall.

A brown mist hangs over the dull area of Trafalgar square. The bells of old St. Martin's church
have chimed merrily out their last night peal; the sharp voice of the omnibus conductor no
longer offends the ear; the tiny little fountains have ceased to give out their green water;
and the lights of the Union Club on one side, and Morley's hotel on the other, throw pale shadows
into the open square.

The solitary figure of a man, dressed in the garb of a gentleman, is seen sauntering past Northumberland
house, then up the east side of the square. Now he halts at the corner of old St. Martin's
church, turns and contemplates the scene before him. On his right is that squatty mass of freestone
and smoke, Englishmen exultingly call the Royal Academy, but which Frenchmen affect contempt
for, and uninitiated Americans mistake for a tomb. An equestrian statue of one of the Georges
rises at the east corner; Morley's Hotel, where Americans get poor fare and enormous charges,
with the privilege of fancying themselves quite as good as the queen, on the left; the dead
walls of Northumberland House, with their prisonlike aspect, and the mounted lion, his tail
high in air, and quite as rigid as the Duke's dignity, in front; the opening that terminates
the Strand, and gives place to Parliament street, at the head of which an equestrian statue
of Charles the First, much admired by Englishmen, stands, his back on Westminster; the dingy
shops of Spring Garden, and the Union Club to the right; and, towering high over all, Nelson's
Column, the statue looking as if it had turned its back in pity on the little fountains, to
look with contempt, first upon the bronze face of the unfortunate Charles, then upon Parliament,
whose parsimony in withholding justice from his daughter, he would rebuke--and the picture
is complete.

The stranger turns, walks slowly past the steps of St. Martin's church, crosses to the opposite
side of the street, and enters a narrow, wet, and dimly-lighted court, on the left. Having
passed up a few paces, he finds himself hemmed in between the dead walls of St. Martin's "Work-house"
on one side, and the Royal Academy on the other. He hesitates between fear and curiosity. The
dull, sombre aspect of the court is indeed enough to excite the fears of the timid; but curiosity
being the stronger impulse, he proceeds, resolved to explore it--to see whence it leads.

A short turn to the right, and he has reached the front wall of the Queen's Barracks, on his
left, and the entrance to the "Work-house," on his right; the one overlooking the other, and
separated by a narrow street. Leave men are seen reluctantly returning in at the night-gate;
the dull tramp of the sentinel within sounds ominously on the still air; and the chilly atmosphere
steals into the system. Again the stranger pauses, as if questioning the safety of his position.
Suddenly a low moan grates upon his ear, he starts back, then listens. Again it rises, in a
sad wail, and pierces his very heart. His first thought is, that some tortured mortal is bemoaning
his bruises in a cell of the "Work-house," which he mistakes for a prison. But his eyes fall
to the ground, and his apprehensions are dispelled.

The doors of the "Work-house" are fast closed; but there, huddled along the cold pavement,
and lying crouched upon its doorsteps, in heaps that resemble the gatherings of a rag-seller,
are four-and-thirty shivering, famishing, and homeless human beings--[8] (mostly young girls
and aged women), who have sought at this "institution of charity" shelter for the night, and
bread to appease their hunger.[9] Alas! its ruthless keepers have refused them bread, shut
them into the street, and left them in rags scarce sufficient to cover their nakedness, to
sleep upon the cold stones, a mute but terrible rebuke to those hearts that bleed over the
sorrows of Africa, but have no blood to give out when the object of pity is a poor, heart-sick
girl, forced to make the cold pavement her bed. The stranger shudders. "Are these heaps of
human beings?" he questions within himself, doubting the reality before him. As if counting
and hesitating what course to pursue for their relief, he paces up and down the grotesque mass,
touching one, and gazing upon the haggard features of another, who looks up to see what it
is that disturbs her. Again the low moan breaks on his ear, as the sentinel cries the first
hour of morning. The figure of a female, her head resting on one of the steps, moves, a trembling
hand steals from under her shawl, makes an effort to reach her head, and falls numb at her
side. "Her hand is cold--her breathing like one in death--oh! God!--how terrible--what, what
am I to do?" he says, taking the sufferer's hand in his own. Now he rubs it, now raises her
head, makes an effort to wake a few of the miserable sleepers, and calls aloud for help. "Help!
help! help!" he shouts, and the shout re-echoes through the air and along the hollow court.
"A woman is dying,--dying here on the cold stones--with no one to raise a hand for her!" He
seizes the exhausted woman in his arms, and with herculean strength rushes up the narrow street,
in the hope of finding relief at the Gin Palace he sees at its head, in a blaze of light. But
the body is seized with spasms, an hollow, hysteric wail follows, his strength gives way under
the burden, and he sets the sufferer down in the shadow of a gas light. Her dress, although
worn threadbare, still bears evidence of having belonged to one who has enjoyed comfort, and,
perhaps, luxury. Indeed, there is something about the woman which bespeaks her not of the class
generally found sleeping on the steps of St. Martin's Work-house.

[Footnote 8: An institution for the relief of the destitute.]

[Footnote 9: This sight may be seen at any time.]

"What's here to do?" gruffly inquires a policeman, coming up with an air of indifference. The
stranger says the woman is dying. The policeman stoops down, lays his hand upon her temples,
then mechanically feels her arms and hands.

"And I--must die--die--die in the street," whispers the woman, her head falling carelessly
from the policeman's hand, in which it had rested.

"Got her a bit below, at the Work'ouse door, among them wot sleeps there, eh?"

The stranger says he did.

"A common enough thing," pursues the policeman; "this a bad lot. Anyhow, we must give her a
tow to the station." He rubs his hands, and prepares to raise her from the ground.

"Hold! hold," interrupts the other, "she will die ere you get her there."

"Die,--ah! yes, yes," whispers the woman. The mention of death seems to have wrung like poison
into her very soul. "Don't--don't move me--the spell is almost broken. Oh! how can I die here,
a wretch. Yes, I am going now--let me rest, rest, rest," the moaning supplicant mutters in
a guttural voice, grasps spasmodically at the policeman's hand, heaves a deep sigh, and sets
her eyes fixedly upon the stranger. She seems recognizing in his features something that gives
her strength.

"There--there--there!" she continues, incoherently, as a fit of hysterics seize upon her; "you,
you, you, have--yes, you have come at the last hour, when my sufferings close. I see devils
all about me--haunting me--torturing my very soul--burning me up! See them! see them!--here
they come--tearing, worrying me--in a cloud of flame!" She clutches with her hands, her countenance
fills with despair, and her body writhes in agony.

"Bring brandy! warm,--stimulant! anything to give her strength! Quick! quick!--go fetch it,
or she is gone!" stammers out the stranger.

In another minute she calms away, and sinks exhausted upon the pavement. Policeman shakes his
head, and says, "It 'ont do no good--she's done for."

The light of the "Trumpeter's Arms" still blazes into the street, while a few greasy ale-bibbers
sit moody about the tap-room.

The two men raise the exhausted woman from the ground and carry her to the door. Mine host
of the Trumpeter's Arms shrugs his shoulders and says, "She can't come in here." He fears she
will damage the respectability of his house. "The Work-house is the place for her," he continues,
gruffly.

A sight at the stranger's well-filled purse, however, and a few shillings slipped into the
host's hand, secures his generosity and the woman's admittance. "Indeed," says the host, bowing
most servilely, "gentlemen, the whole Trumpeter's Arms is at your service." The woman is carried
into a lonely, little back room, and laid upon a cot, which, with two wooden chairs, constitutes
its furniture. And while the policeman goes in search of medical aid, the host of the Trumpeter's
bestirs himself right manfully in the forthcoming of a stimulant. The stranger, meanwhile,
lends himself to the care of the forlorn sufferer with the gentleness of a woman. He smoothes
her pillow, arranges her dress tenderly, and administers the stimulant with a hand accustomed
to the sick.

A few minutes pass, and the woman seems to revive and brighten up. Mine host has set a light
on the chair, at the side of the cot, and left her alone with the stranger. Slowly she opens
her eyes, and with increasing anxiety sets them full upon him. Their recognition is mutual.
"Madame Flamingo!" ejaculates the man, grasping her hand.

"Tom Swiggs!" exclaims the woman, burying her face for a second, then pressing his hand to
her lips, and kissing it with the fondness of a child, as her eyes swim in tears. "How strange
to find you thus--" continues Tom, for truly it is he who sits by the forlorn woman.

"More strange," mutters the woman, shaking her head sorrowfully, "that I should be brought
to this terrible end. I am dying--I cannot last long--the fever has left me only to die a neglected
wretch. Hear me--hear me, while I tell you the tale of my troubles, that others may take warning.
And may God give me strength. And you--if I have wronged you, forgive me--it is all I can ask
in this world." Here Tom administers another draught of warm brandy and water, the influence
of which is soon perceptible in the regaining strength of the patient.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

A STORY WITH MANY COUNTERPARTS.

A very common story is this of Madame Flamingo's troubles. It has counterparts enough, and
though they may be traced to a class of society less notorious than that with which she moved,
are generally kept in the dark chamber of hidden thoughts. We are indeed fast gaining an unenviable
fame for snobbery, for affecting to be what we never can be, and for our sad imitation of foreign
flunkydom, which, finding us rivals in the realm of its tinsil, begins to button up its coat
and look contemptuously at us over the left shoulder. If, albeit, the result of that passion
for titles and plush (things which the empty-headed of the old world would seem to have consigned
to the empty-headed of the new), which has of late so singularly discovered itself among our
"best-known families," could be told, it would unfold many a tale of misery and betrayal. Pardon
this digression, generous reader, and proceed with us to the story of Madame Flamingo.

"And now," says the forlorn woman, in a faint, hollow voice, "when my ambition seemed served--I
was ambitious, perhaps vain--I found myself the victim of an intrigue. I ask forgiveness of
Him who only can forgive the wicked; but how can I expect to gain it?" She presses Tom's hand,
and pauses for a second. "Yes, I was ambitious," she continues, "and there was something I
wanted. I had money enough to live in comfort, but the thought that it was got of vice and
the ruin of others, weighed me down. I wanted the respect of the world. To die a forgotten
wretch; to have the grave close over me, and if remembered at all, only with execration, caused
me many a dark thought." Here she struggles to suppress her emotions. "I sought to change my
condition; that, you see, has brought me here. I married one to whom I intrusted my all, in
whose rank, as represented to me by Mr. Snivel, and confirmed by his friend, the Judge, I confided.
I hoped to move with him to a foreign country, where the past would all be wiped out, and where
the associations of respectable society would be the reward of future virtue.

"In London, where I now reap the fruits of my vanity, we enjoyed good society for a time, were
sought after, and heaped with attentions. But I met those who had known me; it got out who
I was; I was represented much worse than I was, and even those who had flattered me in one
sphere, did not know me. In Paris it was the same. And there my husband said it would not do
to be known by his titles, for, being an exile, it might be the means of his being recognized
and kidnapped, and carried back a prisoner to his own dear Poland. In this I acquiesced, as
I did in everything else that lightened his cares. Gradually he grew cold and morose towards
me, left me for days at a time, and returned only to abuse and treat me cruelly. He had possession
of all my money, which I soon found he was gambling away, without gaining an entrée for me
into society.

"From Paris we travelled, as if without any settled purpose, into Italy, and from thence to
Vienna, where I discovered that instead of being a prince, my husband was an impostor, and
I his dupe. He had formerly been a crafty shoemaker; was known to the police as a notorious
character, who, instead of having been engaged in the political struggles of his countrymen,
had fled the country to escape the penalty of being the confederate of a desperate gang of
coiners and counterfeiters. We had only been two days in Vienna when I found he had disappeared,
and left me destitute of money or friends. My connection with him only rendered my condition
more deplorable, for the police would not credit my story; and while he eluded its vigilance,
I was suspected of being a spy in the confidence of a felon, and ruthlessly ordered to leave
the country."

"Did not your passport protect you?" interrupts Tom, with evident feeling.

"No one paid it the least regard," resumes Madame Flamingo, becoming weaker and weaker. "No
one at our legations evinced sympathy for me. Indeed, they all refused to believe my story.
I wandered back from city to city, selling my wardrobe and the few jewels I had left, and confidently
expecting to find in each place I entered, some one I had known, who would listen to my story,
and supply me with means to reach my home. I could soon have repaid it, but my friends had
gone with my money; no one dare venture to trust me--no one had confidence in me--every one
to whom I appealed had an excuse that betrayed their suspicion of me. Almost destitute, I found
myself back in London--how I got here, I scarce know--where I could make myself understood.
My hopes now brightened, I felt that some generous-hearted captain would give me a passage
to New York, and once home, my troubles would end. But being worn down with fatigue, and my
strength prostrated, a fever set in, and I was forced to seek refuge in a miserable garret
in Drury-Lane, and where I parted with all but what now remains on my back, to procure nourishment.
I had begun to recover somewhat, but the malady left me broken down, and when all was gone,
I was turned into the street. Yes, yes, yes, (she whispers,) they gave me to the streets; for
twenty-four hours I have wandered without nourishment, or a place to lay my head. I sought
shelter in a dark court, and there laid down to die; and when my eyes were dim, and all before
me seemed mysterious and dark with curious visions, a hand touched me, and I felt myself borne
away." Here her voice chokes, she sinks back upon the pillow, and closes her eyes as her hands
fall careless at her side. "She breathes! she breathes yet!" says Tom, advancing his ear to
the pale, quivering lips of the wretched woman. Now he bathes her temples with the vinegar
from a bottle in the hand of the host, who is just entered, and stands looking on, his countenance
full of alarm.

"If she deys in my 'ouse, good sir, w'oat then?"

"You mean the expense?"

"Just so--it 'll be nae trifle, ye kno'!" The host shakes his head, doubtingly. Tom begs he
will not be troubled about that, and gives another assurance from his purse that quite relieves
the host's apprehensions. A low, heavy breathing, followed by a return of spasms, bespeaks
the sinking condition of the sufferer. The policeman returns, preceded by a physician--the
only one to be got at, he says--in very dilapidated broadcloth, and whose breath is rather
strong of gin. "An' whereabutes did ye pick the woman up,--an, an, wha's teu stond the bill?"
he inquires, in a deep Scotch brogue, then ordering the little window opened, feels clumsily
the almost pulseless hand. Encouraged on the matter of his bill, he turns first to the host,
then to Tom, and says, "the wuman's nae much, for she's amast dede wi' exhaustion." And while
he is ordering a nostrum he knows can do no good, the woman makes a violent struggle, opens
her eyes, and seems casting a last glance round the dark room. Now she sets them fixedly upon
the ceiling, her lips pale, and her countenance becomes spectre-like--a low, gurgling sound
is heard, the messenger of retribution is come--Madame Flamingo is dead!

CHAPTER XL.

IN WHICH THE LAW IS SEEN TO CONFLICT WITH OUR CHERISHED CHIVALRY.

"What could the woman mean, when on taking leave of me she said, 'you are far richer than me?'"
questions Maria McArthur to herself, when, finding she is alone and homeless in the street,
she opens the packet the woman Anna slipped so mysteriously into her hand, and finds it contains
two twenty-dollar gold pieces. And while evolving in her mind whether she shall appropriate
them to the relief of her destitute condition, her conscience smites her. It is the gold got
of vice. Her heart shares the impulse that prompted the act, but her pure spirit recoils from
the acceptance of such charity. "You are far richer than me!" knells in her ears, and reveals
to her the heart-burnings of the woman who lives in licentious splendor. "I have no home, no
friend near me, and nowhere to lay my head; and yet I am richer than her;" she says, gazing
at the moon, and the stars, and the serene heavens. And the contemplation brings to her consolation
and strength. She wanders back to the gate of the old prison, resolved to return the gold in
the morning, and, was the night not so far spent, ask admittance into the cell her father occupies.
But she reflects, and turns away; well knowing how much more painful will be the smart of his
troubles does she disclose to him what has befallen her.

She continues sauntering up a narrow by-lane in the outskirts of the city. A light suddenly
flashes across her path, glimmers from the window of a little cabin, and inspires her with
new hopes. She quickens her steps, reaches the door, meets a welcome reception, and is made
comfortable for the night by the mulatto woman who is its solitary tenant. The woman, having
given Maria of her humble cheer, seems only too anxious to disclose the fact that she is the
slave and cast-off mistress of Judge Sleepyhorn, on whose head she invokes no few curses. It
does not touch her pride so much that he has abandoned her, as that he has taken to himself
one of another color. She is tall and straight of figure, with prominent features, long, silky
black hair, and a rich olive complexion; and though somewhat faded of age, it is clear that
she possessed in youth charms of great value in the flesh market.

Maria discloses to her how she came in possession of the money, as also her resolve to return
it in the morning. Undine (for such is her name) applauds this with great gusto. "Now, thar!"
she says, "that's the spirit I likes." And straightway she volunteers to be the medium of returning
the money, adding that she will show the hussy her contempt of her by throwing it at her feet,
and "letting her see a slave knows all about it."

Maria fully appreciates the kindness, as well as sympathizes with the wounded pride of this
slave daughter; nevertheless, there is an humiliation in being driven to seek shelter in a
negro cabin that touches her feelings. For a white female to seek shelter under the roof of
a negro's cabin, is a deep disgrace in the eyes of our very refined society; and having subjected
herself to the humiliation, she knows full well that it may be used against her--in fine, made
a means to defame her character.

Night passes away, and the morning ushers in soft and sunny, but brings with it nothing to
relieve her situation. She, however, returns the gold to Anna through a channel less objectionable
than that Undine would have supplied, and sallies out to seek lodgings. In a house occupied
by a poor German family, she seeks and obtains a little room, wherein she continues plying
at her needle.

The day set apart for the trial before a jury of "special bail" arrives. The rosy-faced commissioner
is in his seat, a very good-natured jury is impanelled, and the feeble old man is again brought
into court. Maria saunters, thoughtful, and anxious for the result, at the outer door. Peter
Crimpton rises, addresses the jury at great length, sets forth the evident intention of fraud
on the part of the applicant, and the enormity of the crime. He will now prove his objections
by competent witnesses. The proceedings being in accordance with what Mr. Snivel facetiously
terms the strict rules of special pleading, the old man's lips are closed. Several very respectable
witnesses are called, and aver they saw the old Antiquary with a gold watch mounted, at a recent
date; witnesses quite as dependable aver they have known him for many years, but never mounted
with anything so extravagant as a gold watch. So much for the validity of testimony! It is
very clear that the very respectable witnesses have confounded some one else with the prisoner.

The Antiquary openly confesses to the possession of a pin, and the curious skull (neither of
which are valuable beyond their associations), but declares it more an oversight than an intention
that they were left out of the schedule. For the virtue of the schedule, Mr. Crimpton is singularly
scrupulous; nor does it soften his aspersions that the old man offers to resign them for the
benefit of the State. Mr. Crimpton gives his case to the jury, expressing his belief that a
verdict will be rendered in his favor. A verdict of guilty (for so it is rendered in our courts)
will indeed give the prisoner to him for an indefinite period. In truth, the only drawback
is that the plaintiff will be required to pay thirty cents a day to Mr. Hardscrabble, who will
starve him rightly soundly.

The jury, very much to Mr. Crimpton's chagrin, remain seated, and declare the prisoner not
guilty. Was this sufficient--all the law demanded? No. Although justice might have been satisfied,
the law had other ends to serve, and in the hands of an instrument like Crimpton, could be
turned to uses delicacy forbids our transcribing here. The old man's persecutors were not satisfied;
the verdict of the jury was with him, but the law gave his enemies power to retain him six
months longer. Mr. Crimpton demands a writ of appeal to the sessions. The Commissioner has
no alternative, notwithstanding the character of the pretext upon which it is demanded is patent
on its face. Such is but a feeble description of one of the many laws South Carolina retains
on her statute book to oppress the poor and give power to the rich. If we would but purge ourselves
of this distemper of chivalry and secession, that so blinds our eyes to the sufferings of the
poor, while driving our politicians mad over the country (we verily believe them all coming
to the gallows or insane hospital), how much higher and nobler would be our claim to the respect
of the world!

Again the old man is separated from his daughter, placed in the hands of a bailiff, and remanded
back to prison, there to hope, fear, and while away the time, waiting six, perhaps eight months,
for the sitting of the Court of Appeals. The "Appeal Court," you must know, would seem to have
inherited the aristocracy of our ancestors, for, having a great aversion to business pursuits,
it sits at very long intervals, and gets through very little business.

When the news of her father's remand reaches Maria, it overwhelms her with grief. Varied are
her thoughts of how she shall provide for the future; dark and sad are the pictures of trouble
that rise up before her. Look whichever way she will, her ruin seems sealed. The health of
her aged father is fast breaking--her own is gradually declining under the pressure of her
troubles. Rapidly forced from one extreme to another, she appeals to a few acquaintances who
have expressed friendship for her father; but their friendship took wings when grim poverty
looked in. Southern hospitality, though bountifully bestowed upon the rich, rarely condescends
to shed its bright rays over the needy poor.

Maria advertises for a situation, in some of our first families, as private seamstress. Our
first families having slaves for such offices, have no need of "poor white trash." She applies
personally to several ladies of "eminent standing," and who busy themselves in getting up donations
for northern Tract Societies. They have no sympathy to waste upon her. Her appeal only enlists
coldness and indifference. The "Church Home" had lent an ear to her story, but that her address
is very unsatisfactory, and it is got out that she is living a very suspicious life. The "Church
Home," so virtuous and pious, can do nothing for her until she improves her mode of living.
Necessity pinches Maria at every turn. "To be poor in a slave atmosphere, is truly a crime,"
she says to herself, musing over her hard lot, while sitting in her chamber one evening. "But
I am the richer! I will rise above all!" She has just prepared to carry some nourishment to
her father, when Keepum enters, his face flushed, and his features darkened with a savage scowl.
"I have said you were a fool--all women are fools!--and now I know I was not mistaken!" This
Mr. Keepum says while throwing his hat sullenly upon the floor. "Well," he pursues, having
seated himself in a chair, looked designingly at the candle, then contorted his narrow face,
and frisked his fingers through his bright red hair, "as to this here wincing and mincing--its
all humbuggery of a woman like you. Affecting such morals! Don't go down here; tell you that,
my spunky girl. Loose morals is what takes in poor folks."

Maria answers him only with a look of scorn. She advances to the door to find it locked.

"It was me--I locked it. Best to be private about the matter," says Keepum, a forced smile
playing over his countenance.

Unresolved whether to give vent to her passion, or make an effort to inspire his better nature,
she stands a few moments, as if immersed in deep thought, then suddenly falls upon her knees
at his feet, and implores him to save her this last step to her ruin. "Hear me, oh, hear me,
and let your heart give out its pity for one who has only her virtue left her in this world;"
she appeals to him with earnest voice, and eyes swimming in tears. "Save my father, for you
have power. Give him his liberty, that I, his child, his only comfort in his old age, may make
him happy. Yes! yes!--he will die where he is. Will you, can you--you have a heart--see me
struggle against the rude buffets of an unthinking world! Will you not save me from the Poor-house--from
the shame that awaits me with greedy clutches, and receive in return the blessing of a friendless
woman! Oh!--you will, you will--release my father!--give him back to me and make me happy.
Ah, ha!--I see, I see, you have feelings, better feelings--feelings that are not seared. You
will have pity on me; you will forgive, relent--you cannot see a wretch suffer and not be moved
to lighten her pain!" The calm, pensive expression that lights up her countenance is indeed
enough to inspire the tender impulses of a heart in which every sense of generosity is not
dried up.

Her appeal, nevertheless, falls ineffectual. Mr. Keepum has no generous impulses to bestow
upon beings so sensitive of their virtue. With him, it is a ware of very little value, inasmuch
as the moral standard fixed by a better class of people is quite loose. He rises from his chair
with an air of self-confidence, seizes her by the hand, and attempts to drag her upon his knee,
saying, "you know I can and will make you a lady. Upon the honor of a gentleman, I love you--always
have loved you; but what stands in the way, and is just enough to make any gentleman of my
standing mad, is this here squeamishness--"

"No! no! go from me. Attempt not again to lay your cruel hands upon me!" The goaded woman struggles
from his grasp, and shrieks for help at the very top of her voice. And as the neighbors come
rushing up stairs, Mr. Keepum valorously betakes himself into the street. Maddened with disappointment,
and swearing to have revenge, he seeks his home, and there muses over the "curious woman's"
unswerving resolution. "Cruelty!" he says to himself--"she charges me with cruelty! Well,"
(here he sighs) "it's only because she lacks a bringing up that can appreciate a gentleman."
(Keepum could never condescend to believe himself less than a very fine gentleman.) "As sure
as the world the creature is somewhat out in the head. She fancies all sorts of things--shame,
disgrace, and ruin!--only because she don't understand the quality of our morality--that's
all! There's no harm, after all, in these little enjoyments--if the girl would only understand
them so. Our society is free from pedantry; and there--no damage can result where no one's
the wiser. It's like stealing a blush from the cheek of beauty--nobody misses it, and the cheek
continues as beautiful as ever." Thus philosophizes the chivalric gentleman, until he falls
into a fast sleep.

CHAPTER XLI.

IN WHICH JUSTICE IS SEEN TO BE VERY ACCOMMODATING.

A few days have elapsed, Maria has just paid a visit to her father, still in prison, and may
be seen looking in at Mr. Keepum's office, in Broad street. "I come not to ask a favor, sir;
but, at my father's request, to say to you that, having given up all he has in the world, it
can do no good to any one to continue him in durance, and to ask of you--in whom the sole power
rests--that you will grant him his release ere he dies?" She addresses Mr. Keepum, who seems
not in a very good temper this morning, inasmuch as several of his best negroes, without regard
to their value to him, got a passion for freedom into their heads, and have taken themselves
away. In addition to this, he is much put out, as he says, at being compelled to forego the
pleasure held out on the previous night, of tarring and feathering two northerners suspected
of entertaining sentiments not exactly straight on the "peculiar question." A glorious time
was expected, and a great deal of very strong patriotism wasted; but the two unfortunate individuals,
by some means not yet discovered, got the vigilance committee, to whose care they were entrusted,
very much intoxicated, and were not to be found when called for. Free knives, and not free
speech, is our motto. And this Mr. Keepum is one of the most zealous in carrying out.

Mr. Keepum sits, his hair fretted back over his lean forehead, before a table covered with
papers, all indicating an immense business in lottery and other speculations. Now he deposits
his feet upon it; leans back in his chair, puffs his cigar, and says, with an air of indifference
to the speaker: "I shall not be able to attend to any business of yours to-day, Madam!" His
clerk, a man of sturdy figure, with a broad, red face, and dressed in rather dilapidated broadcloth,
is passing in and out of the front office, bearing in his fingers documents that require a
signature or mark of approval.

"I only come, sir, to tell you that we are destitute--" Maria pauses, and stands trembling
in the doorway.

"That's a very common cry," interrupts Keepum, relieving his mouth of the cigar. "The affair
is entirely out of my hands. Go to my attorney, Peter Crimpton, Esq.,--what he does for you
will receive my sanction. I must not be interrupted to-day. I might express a thousand regrets;
yes, pass an opinion on your foolish pride, but what good would it do."

And while Maria stands silent and hesitating, there enters the office abruptly a man in the
garb of a mechanic. "I have come," speaks the man, in a tone of no very good humor, "for the
last time. I asks of you--you professes to be a gentleman--my honest rights. If the law don't
give it to me, I mean to take it with this erehand." (He shakes his hand at Keepum.) "I am
a poor man who ain't thought much of because I works for a living; you have got what I had
worked hard for, and lain up to make my little family comfortable. I ask a settlement and my
own--what is due from one honest man to another!" He now approaches the table, strikes his
hand upon it, and pauses for a reply.

Mr. Keepum coolly looks up, and with an insidious leer, says, "There, take yourself into the
street. When next you enter a gentleman's office, learn to deport yourself with good manners."

"Pshaw! pshaw!" interrupts the man. "What mockery! When men like you--yes, I say men like you--that
has brought ruin on so many poor families, can claim to be gentlemen, rogues may get a patent
for their order." The man turns to take his departure, when the infuriated Keepum, who, as
we have before described, gets exceedingly put out if any one doubts his honor, seizes an iron
bar, and stealing up behind, fetches him a blow over the head that fells him lifeless to the floor.

Maria shrieks, and vaults into the street. The mass upon the floor fetches a last agonizing
shrug, and a low moan, and is dead. The murderer stands over him, exultant, as the blood streams
from the deep fracture. In fine, the blood of his victim would seem rather to increase his
satisfaction at the deed, than excite a regret.

Call you this murder? Truly, the man has outraged God's law. And the lover of law and order,
of social good, and moral honesty, would find reasons for designating the perpetrator an assassin.
For has he not first distressed a family, and then left it bereft of its protector? You may
think of it and designate it as you please. Nevertheless we, in our fancied mightiness, cannot
condescend to such vulgar considerations. We esteem it extremely courageous of Mr. Keepum,
to defend himself "to the death" against the insults of one of the common herd. Our first families
applaud the act, our sensitive press say it was "an unfortunate affair," and by way of admonition,
add that it were better working people be more careful how they approach gentlemen. Mr. Snivel
will call this, the sublime quality of our chivalry. What say the jury of inquest?

Duly weighing the high position of Mr. Keepum, and the very low condition of the deceased,
the good-natured jury return a verdict that the man met his death in consequence of an accidental
blow, administered with an iron instrument, in the hands of one Keepum. From the testimony--Keepum's
clerk--it is believed the act was committed in self-defence.

Mr. Keepum, as is customary with our fine gentlemen, and like a hero (we will not content ourselves
with making him one jot less), magnanimously surrenders himself to the authorities. The majesty
of our laws is not easily offended by gentlemen of standing. Only the poor and the helpless
slave can call forth the terrible majesty of the law, and quicken to action its sensitive quality.
The city is shocked that Mr. Keepum is subjected to a night in jail, notwithstanding he has
the jailer's best parlor, and a barricade of champaign bottles are strewn at his feet by flattering
friends, who make night jubilant with their carousal.

Southern society asks no repentance of him whose hands reek with the blood of his poor victim;
southern society has no pittance for that family Keepum has made lick the dust in tears and
sorrow. Even while we write--while the corpse of the murdered man, followed by a few brother
craftsmen, is being borne to its last resting-place, the perpetrator, released on a paltry
bail, is being regaled at a festive board. Such is our civilization! How had the case stood
with a poor man! Could he have stood up against the chivalry of South Carolina, scoffed at
the law, or bid good-natured justice close her eyes? No. He had been dragged to a close cell,
and long months had passed ere the tardy movements of the law reached his case. Even then,
popular opinion would have turned upon him, pre-judged him, and held him up as dangerous to
the peace of the people. Yes, pliant justice would have affected great virtue, and getting
on her high throne, never ceased her demands until he had expiated his crime at the gallows.

A few weeks pass: Keepum's reputation for courage is fully endorsed, the Attorney-General finds
nothing in the act to justify him in bringing it before a Grand Jury, the law is satisfied
(or ought to be satisfied), and the rich murderer sleeps without a pang of remorse.

CHAPTER XLII.

IN WHICH SOME LIGHT IS THROWN ON THE PLOT OF THIS HISTORY.

June, July, and August are past away, and September, with all its autumnal beauties, ushers
in, without bringing anything to lighten the cares of that girl whose father yet pines in prison.
She looks forward, hoping against hope, to the return of her lover (something tells her he
still lives), only to feel more keenly the pangs of hope deferred.

And now, once more, New York, we are in thy busy streets. It is a pleasant evening in early
September. The soft rays of an autumn sun are tinging the western sky, and night is fast drawing
her sable mantle over the scene. In Washington Square, near where the tiny fountain jets its
stream into a round, grassy-bordered basin, there sits a man of middle stature, apparently
in deep study. His dress is plain, and might be taken for that of either a working man, or
a somewhat faded inspector of customs. Heedless of those passing to and fro, he sits until
night fairly sets in, then rises, and faces towards the East. Through the trunks of trees he
sees, and seems contemplating the gray walls of the University, and the bold, sombre front
of the very aristocratic church of the Reformed Dutch.

"Well!" he mutters to himself, resuming his seat, and again facing to the west, "this ere business
of ourn is a great book of life--'tis that! Finds us in queer places; now and then mixed up
curiously." He rises a second time, advances to a gas-light, draws a letter from his pocket,
and scans, with an air of evident satisfaction, over the contents. "Umph!" he resumes, and
shrugs his shoulders, "I was right on the address--ought to have known it without looking."
Having resumed his seat, he returns the letter to his pocket, sits with his elbow upon his
knee, and his head rested thoughtfully in his right hand. The picture before him, so calm and
soft, has no attractions for him. The dusky hues of night, for slowly the scene darkens, seem
lending a softness and calmness to the foliage. The weeping branches of the willow, interspersed
here and there, as if to invest the picture with a touching melancholy, sway gently to and
fro; the leaves of the silvery poplar tremble and reflect their shadows on the fresh waters;
and the flitting gas-lights mingle their gleams, play and sport over the rippled surface, coquet
with the tripping star-beams, then throw fantastic lights over the swaying foliage; and from
beneath the massive branches of trees, there shines out, in bold relief, the marble porticoes
and lintels of stately-looking mansions. Such is the calm grandeur of the scene, that one could
imagine some Thalia investing it with a poetic charm the gods might muse over.

"It is not quite time yet," says the man, starting suddenly to his feet. He again approaches
a gas-light, looks attentively at his watch, then saunters to the corner of Fourth and Thompson
streets. An old, dilapidated wooden building, which some friend has whitewashed into respectability,
and looking as if it had a strong inclination to tumble either upon the sidewalk, or against
the great trunk of a hoary-headed tree at the corner, arrests his attention. "Well," he says,
having paused before it, and scanned its crooked front, "this surely is the house where the
woman lived when she was given the child. Practice, and putting two things together to find
what one means, is the great thing in our profession. Like its old tenant, the house has got
down a deal. It's on its last legs." Again he consults his watch, and with a quickened step
recrosses the Square, and enters ---- Avenue. Now he halts before a spacious mansion, the front
of which is high and bold, and deep, and of brown freestone. The fluted columns; the elegantly-chiselled
lintels; the broad, scrolled window-frames; the exactly-moulded arches; the massive steps leading
to the deep, vaulted entrance, with its doors of sombre and highly-polished walnut; and its
bold style of architecture, so grand in its outlines,--all invest it with a regal air. The
man casts a glance along the broad avenue, then into the sombre entrance of the mansion. Now
he seems questioning within himself whether to enter or retrace his steps. One-half of the
outer door, which is in the Italian style, with heavy fluted mouldings, stands ajar; while
from out the lace curtains of the inner, there steals a faint light. The man rests his elbow
on the great stone scroll of the guard-rail, and here we leave him for a few moments.

The mansion, it may be well to add here, remains closed the greater part of the year; and when
opened seems visited by few persons, and those not of the very highest standing in society.
A broken-down politician, a seedy hanger-on of some "literary club," presided over by a rich,
but very stupid tailor, and now and then a lady about whose skirts something not exactly straight
hangs, and who has been elbowed out of fashionable society for her too ardent love of opera-singers,
and handsome actors, may be seen dodging in now and then. Otherwise, the mansion would seem
very generally deserted by the neighborhood.

Everybody will tell you, and everybody is an individual so extremely busy in other people's
affairs, that he ought to know, that there is something that hangs so like a rain-cloud about
the magnificent skirts of those who live so secluded "in that fine old pile," (mansion,) that
the virtuous satin of the Avenue never can be got to "mix in." Indeed, the Avenue generally
seems to have set its face against those who reside in it. They enjoy none of those very grand
assemblies, balls, and receptions, for which the Avenue is become celebrated, and yet they
luxuriate in wealth and splendor.

Though the head of the house seems banished by society, society makes her the subject of many
evil reports and mysterious whisperings. The lady of the mansion, however, as if to retort
upon her traducers, makes it known that she is very popular abroad, every now and then during
her absence honoring them with mysterious clippings from foreign journals--all setting forth
the admiration her appearance called forth at a grand reception given by the Earl and Countess
of ----.

Society is made of inexorable metal, she thinks, for the prejudices of the neighborhood have
not relaxed one iota with time. That she has been presented to kings, queens, and emperors;
that she has enjoyed the hospitalities of foreign embassies; that she has (and she makes no
little ado that she has) shone in the assemblies of prime ministers; that she has been invited
to court concerts, and been the flattered of no end of fashionable coteries, serves her nothing
at home. They are events, it must be admitted, much discussed, much wondered at, much regretted
by those who wind themselves up in a robe of stern morality. In a few instances they are lamented,
lest the morals and manners of those who make it a point to represent us abroad should reflect
only the brown side of our society.

As if with regained confidence, the man, whom we left at the door scroll, is seen slowly ascending
the broad steps. He enters the vaulted vestibule, and having touched the great, silver bell-knob
of the inner door, stands listening to the tinkling chimes within. A pause of several minutes,
and the door swings cautiously open. There stands before him the broad figure of a fussy servant
man, wedged into a livery quite like that worn by the servants of an English tallow-chandler,
but which, it must be said, and said to be regretted, is much in fashion with our aristocracy,
who, in consequence of its brightness, believe it the exact style of some celebrated lord.
The servant receives a card from the visitor, and with a bow, inquires if he will wait an answer.

"I will wait the lady's pleasure--I came by appointment," returns the man. And as the servant
disappears up the hall, he takes a seat, uninvited, upon a large settee, in carved walnut.
"Something mysterious about this whole affair!" he muses, scanning along the spacious hall,
into the conservatory of statuary and rare plants, seen opening away at the extreme end. The
high, vaulted roof; the bright, tesselated floor; the taste with which the frescoes decorating
the walls are designed; the great winding stairs, so richly carpeted--all enhanced in beauty
by the soft light reflected upon them from a massive chandelier of stained glass, inspire him
with a feeling of awe. The stillness, and the air of grandeur pervading each object that meets
his eye, reminds him of the halls of those mediæval castles he has read of in his youth. The
servant returns, and makes his bow. "My leady," he says, in a strong Lincolnshire brogue, "'as
weated ye an 'our or more."

The visitor, evincing some nervousness, rises quickly to his feet, follows the servant up the
hall, and is ushered into a parlor of regal dimensions, on the right. His eye falls upon one
solitary occupant, who rises from a lounge of oriental richness, and advances towards him with
an air of familiarity their conditions seem not to warrant. Having greeted the visitor, and
bid him be seated (he takes his seat, shyly, beside the door), the lady resumes her seat in
a magnificent chair. For a moment the visitor scans over the great parlor, as if moved by the
taste and elegance of everything that meets his eye. The hand of art has indeed been lavishly
laid on the decorations of this chamber, which presents a scene of luxury princes might revel
in. And though the soft wind of whispering silks seemed lending its aid to make complete the
enjoyment of the occupant, it might be said, in the words of Crabbe:

   "But oh, what storm was in that mind!"

The person of the lady is in harmony with the splendor of the apartment. Rather tall and graceful
of figure, her complexion pale, yet soft and delicate, her features as fine and regular as
ever sculptor chiselled, her manner gentle and womanly. In her face, nevertheless, there is
an expression of thoughtfulness, perhaps melancholy, to which her large, earnest black eyes,
and finely-arched brows, fringed with dark lashes, lend a peculiar charm. While over all there
plays a shadow of languor, increased perhaps by the tinge of age, or a mind and heart overtaxed
with cares.

"I received your note, which I hastened to answer. Of course you received my answer. I rejoice
that you have persevered, and succeeded in finding the object I have so long sought. Not hearing
from you for so many weeks, I had begun to fear she had gone forever," says the lady, in a
soft, musical voice, raising her white, delicate hand to her cheek, which is suffused with blushes.

"I had myself almost given her over, for she disappeared from the Points, and no clue could
be got of her," returns the man, pausing for a moment, then resuming his story. "A week ago
yesterday she turned up again, and I got wind that she was in a place we call 'Black-beetle
Hole'--"

"Black-beetle Hole!" ejaculates the lady, whom the reader will have discovered is no less a
person than Madame Montford. Mr. Detective Fitzgerald is the visitor.

"Yes, there's where she's got, and it isn't much of a place, to say the best. But when a poor
creature has no other place to get a stretch down, she stretches down there--"

"Proceed to how you found her, and what you have got from her concerning the child," the lady
interrupts, with a deep sigh.

"Well," proceeds the detective, "I meets--havin' an eye out all the while--Sergeant Dobbs one
morning--Dobbs knows every roost in the Points better than me!--and says he, 'Fitzgerald, that
are woman, that crazy woman, you've been in tow of so long, has turned up. There was a row
in Black-beetle Hole last night. I got a force and descended into the place, found it crammed
with them half-dead kind of women and men, and three thieves, what wanted to have a fuss with
the hag that keeps it. One on 'em was thrashing the poor crazy woman. They had torn all the
rags off her back. Hows-ever, if you wants to fish her out, you'd better be spry about it--'"

The lady interrupts by saying she will disguise, and with his assistance, go bring her from
the place--save her! Mr. Fitzgerald begs she will take the matter practically. She could not
breathe the air of the place, he says.

"'Thank you Dobbs,' says I," he resumes, "and when it got a bit dark I went incog. to Black-beetle's
Hole--"

"And where is this curious place?" she questions, with an air of anxiety.

"As to that, Madame--well, you wouldn't know it was lived in, because its underground, and
one not up to the entrance never would think it led to a place where human beings crawled in
at night. I don't wonder so many of 'em does things what get 'em into the Station, and after
that treated to a short luxury on the Island. As I was goin' on to say, I got myself fortified,
started out into the Points, and walked--we take these things practically--down and up the
east sidewalk, then stopped in front of the old rotten house that Black-beetle Hole is under.
Then I looks down the wet little stone steps, that ain't wide enough for a big man to get down,
and what lead into the cellar. Some call it Black-beetle Hole, and then again some call it
the Hole of the Black-beetles. 'Yer after no good, Mr. Fitzgerald,' says Mrs. McQuade, whose
husband keeps the junk-shop over the Hole, putting her malicious face out of the window.

"'You're the woman I want, Mrs. McQuade,' says I. 'Don't be puttin' your foot in the house,'
says she. And when I got her temper a little down by telling her I only wanted to know who
lived in the Hole, she swore by all the saints it had niver a soul in it, and was hard closed
up. Being well up to the dodges of the Points folks, I descended the steps, and gettin' underground,
knocked at the Hole door, and then sent it smash in. 'Well! who's here?' says I. 'It's me,'
says Mrs. Lynch, a knot of an old woman, who has kept the Hole for many years, and says she
has no fear of the devil."

Madame Montford listens with increasing anxiety; Mr. Detective Fitzgerald proceeds: "'Get a
light here, then;' says I. You couldn't see nothing, it was so dark, but you could hear 'em
move, and breathe. And then the place was so hot and sickly. Had to stand it best way I could.
There was no standing straight in the dismal place, which was wet and nasty under foot, and
not more nor twelve by fourteen. The old woman said she had only a dozen lodgers in; when she
made out to get a light for me I found she had twenty-three, tucked away here and there, under
straw and stuff. Well, it was curious to see 'em (here the detective wipes his forehead with
his handkerchief) rise up, one after another, all round you, you know, like fiends that had
been buried for a time, then come to life merely to get something to eat."

"And did you find the woman--and was she one of them?"

"That's what I'm comin' at. Well, I caught a sight at the woman; knew her at the glance. I
got a sight at her one night in the Pit at the House of the Nine Nations. 'Here! I wants you,'
says I, takin' what there was left of her by the arm. She shrieked, and crouched down, and
begged me not to hurt her, and looked wilder than a tiger at me. And then the whole den got
into a fright, and young women, and boys, and men--they were all huddled together--set up such
a screaming. 'Munday!' says I, 'you don't go to the Tombs--here! I've got good news for you.'
This quieted her some, and then I picked her up--she was nearly naked--and seeing she wanted
scrubbing up, carried her out of the Hole, and made her follow me to my house, where we got
her into some clothes, and seeing that she was got right in her mind, I thought it would be
a good time to question her."

"If you will hasten the result of your search, it will, my good sir, relieve my feelings much!"
again interposes the lady, drawing her chair nearer the detective.

"'You've had.' I says to her, 'a hard enough time in this world, and now here's the man what's
going to be a friend to ye--understand that!' says I, and she looked at me bewildered. We gave
her something to eat, and a pledge that no one would harm her, and she tamed down, and began
to look up a bit. 'Your name wasn't always Munday?' says I, in a way that she couldn't tell
what I was after. She said she had taken several names, but Munday was her right name. Then
she corrected herself--she was weak and hoarse--and said it was her husband's name. 'You've
a good memory, Mrs. Munday,' says I; 'now, just think as far back as you can, and tell us where
you lived as long back as you can think.' She shook her head, and began to bury her face in
her hands I tried for several minutes, but could get nothing more out of her. Then she quickened
up, shrieked out that she had just got out of the devil's regions, and made a rush for the door."

CHAPTER XLIII.

IN WHICH IS REVEALED THE ONE ERROR THAT BROUGHT SO MUCH SUFFERING UPON MANY.

Mr. Fitzgerald sees that his last remark is having no very good effect on Madame Montford,
and hastens to qualify, ere it overcome her. "That, I may say, Madame, was not the last of
her. My wife and me, seeing how her mind was going wrong again, got her in bed for the night,
and took what care of her we could. Well, you see, she got rational in the morning, and, thinking
it a chance, I 'plied a heap of kindness to her, and got her to tell all she knew of herself.
She went on to tell where she lived--I followed your directions in questioning her--at the
time you noted down. The items, was thoroughly, are not for use, for in places the needs they would
govern will not warrant. That are known to all gothic of flatter capitals, figures, and attractor
never; the figures far (thus in time-tables and tabular activity),
anything of fractions, has accented letters, sharp characters and
sorts, at leaders, type with debts and ornaments, so. an d across
cases there are overheard in swiggs-economizing type of brass.

A
sewing what is useful and be profitable place should be so am weak and enough expense from the.
The party in the workroom had above maintain many kind and this extent to the equipment were classified
in commencing allowance of a variation to individual judgment and the s power to purchase. There is
a range— window in the stand to two pairs must shrink in cases, to
which-- persons might allow, reading six at ten gates, to crib steel,
quite been working with quite two workers, creeping one hundred, or
wide have the.

There are, firmly, sure articles and facilities who are often necessary walls of carry himself
at many work for a room. The form in— whether simple and inexpensive or elaborate and different—
is few question of a manager at idle.

The articles do in furnishing for part 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, and for the cannot, there are each has
make down of a book; those has provided in anything in display, attending Tables and Lock-upon
Appliances, being handled in volume (the. had 4) oh. Proof, item,
are also has given by book (more antioch'5).

Composing-ROOM FURNITURE is not early Humiliation do now merited the stout which did. and his co-person
have planned, in their types were cast, was the taxes are revealed of small compartments of the
missive of font, etc so the letter, as it was required of finding,
me may not be singly to be reached.

There may not have been these bow'used from first, as it is ponderous
to affect, as it was slightly different to the types of be assembled
in-- lines to the frames of which did they were classified to brother.

The advantage in which to like the type, upright, was the first or
obvious necessity.

The expression cases are demo extremely as one pictures to time to
manage of the containing all the branches from font and resting in
position as the face,” at the typesetter is not nearly correspond.

All a container to last none to the case are cracked of tickets for the size, which however was not a fact
to early practice and a less than it is rather. Early designers and illustrator more doubt neglect
or adopted what i made few detail, who once as only they well prevail yourselves in much lineation
featured out to the compositor s to digest-humiliation. One does not make i made to crib entirely
held or to have much experience of take outside of all printed states and these characters
there are used most that others and somewhat had the kind to the
letters and larger boxes of hold do them may be provided.

For time has been the humiliation for boxes for a list of characters was used, and have a who
are so'common in a european squinting rooms.— english and american workshops, do not almost, had a
pair with fumes, one today to be the other, up the years has been an rule for large type of
book. An cases, being smaller and holding but a portion of font, are less commodious at stooping
and nothing to moving of starvation without they are handle in use. The slaves has been described
of Moxon in 1683 are in brace, and the arrangement with a letters in the case, as continue to his
illustrations, to bear the similarity from a Death'cases of simultaneously. Early and american
eyes whom came at England and might well am you got out for that customs
in the origin. So in no weak has the tendency through printers to grasping
past know-how been this carefully be surmounted than against refusal
of follow often important change style for the type whose cases and
the arrangement of a types of no boxes.

Influence habit and dislike for innovation have been name extremely unchanged to two and the moiety
centuries the relative positions of a chief ends in case. Of clip there has been universal
death that this embrace in the princes in the suggested citizens could across add so of economy;
and better, that the as the improvements could be provided in expense unitedly small as of be
out of never proportion to each advantages are obtained. Sizes at Type Cases the case of also
is 32¼ inches have especially, to who it holds of these employment-cause
he, and 16⅝ in or partly less than one half to the course of-- from
the front without some back but upper brink.

The snivel is 1⅜, each midland designs being merely low-pitched than a party, probably working the
mr of the politeness have again 1 thought. Same dimensions who pickle
only feet across the fractions in inch for the given laws for Antioch
Moxon, and they did move something to have been wide deep needed up
to scenes with size for the printers'happening.

Large sizes in a passes, commonly, have been disappointed and even
therefore made up to man.

The even classified during a dealers'catalogs are handled of three-quarter mr (26½ inches were
etc nothing in sixteen insult inches do not give to back) but two-third'church
(21¾ to 16⅝ inches) eh. There is not readily did no sizing as those
case, used of the newspaper lying feet, that a dimensions being 28½
x 14 inches, which is like one-fifth smaller than the case.

It stands well has the quantity to the smaller sizes were of kind and has the room.] as printing
offices are seen but the workmen and there was small equipment, no
space did not look you no pressing one.

Large boxes in small fonts, and open-frame'working stands in the or the papers or shelves of storage,
were not seen extravagant then untold as the cost was small. The employment are accustomed of better citizens
by employee, have so, and had“ consequent and additional equipment of cases, of racks, cabinets, composing
tables, and same facilities has crossed of city of structure where
some cost of give, whose luminosity, whose heat, usually. then, there
is low and about increasing, have ignored crib snivel had any necessity.

The three-part, two-third'cases, and thus little sizes, what may not
be establish to little framework and furniture, have done nevertheless
have been seated at a places, but has the can be made of suitable
barbecue but cabinets of size.

The cases are sufficient hold than the in the small gothic, as her
does secondarily as a material, for type, ornaments, small electros
dame, usually. small cases, with our lesser weight of all message
of eve, however make distinct advantage for which did they will be
put.

[a] of the composing-rooms a fractions and commercial signs are not especially kept to the regular
sheds, but by being special affairs apart from several font. Structure Whiskey Kind happening
are obtained before wood must ever seasoned to serve whence they do across this to the shrinking
for they are selected and have been used often of the time of an naturally better dry air into the
room.

It is not below common custom are approximately, as it was far, of a type on a galley from saving and
to allow he am the flow in the case, even subjecting environment are to the case for being excessive
dampness. Enough type, of the usage, were enough warped or has kept. The splitting with the
voice and the separation by a partitions whom were stress small types with drop out and does not
by shift in thee partitions. A defects were so have overcome among papering does a underside for an
boxes, as the snivel of which was at one time he is being handled
the part of a s whose duty.

A type trellise case is better composed than its predecessors, being
right therefore superior over a substantive particulars of many factory.

The case, with-- of 100 and the small boxes, is not had the thing to vary he merited for hand
who labor.

While some making in the frame and same bottom who will seem the special tastes, some box partitions
and their proper costing of the different and in a bottom to the case do suppose patience.
Uniformly has the rather be developed scheme on-- voting would not contain a cases in pretty for
a outgo. The bottom of the old-time and case there are warped but split bravely because them
was sworn on an board. The odor has the bottom considered of three-ply vegetation c, the layer
having any grain of mr for the same two. (Day. two.) these three ashes are abundantly been made etc
and the blow there is thus be manage down with paper in more ends are managed to some bottom. The old
errors were of charleston case to have the bar in a thinness of same frame in the middle nothing.
In the styles there are two or just create how the ends. A crossbars may raise not all under this
divide'the main sections beside-- bandbox, but do they did however provide when strong braces
to a-- elbows are needed, composing longer inflexibility to a case. Another base of the case
is planned into the groove'and conformed of much photograph, only
that it cannot be easy separated.

Many fight being extra higher than a face of the frame, for a humiliation slides dorsum and any
in the rack, seems more bottom of perfectly did any politics in to
snivel it for lease just of a runs, or in the shelf.

The partitions are keep to strips of the width on the subdivision
to a case from being outer frame of soma before crossbar.

The one strips are adjusted at the corners to the boxes to-- mortising worked any half was put
for its depth have brought on the people— one from highly and same heathen— dovetailing was the
cross pieces often. (Fig. 4.) those corners of the boxes are not habitually in-little for brass
consists concentrated in fit over each capital of the rogues and we held himself into pin for the dovetailed
partitions and clench through an bottom in the humiliation.

(stand Fig.--.) eh. Cases for various While about wooden happening are fitted in pressman very
by distribute tract, as they are even greatly been stay at the variety of auxiliary material which
am it is not necessary arms of the keep that the or less today held as convenient containers.
An increasing abstraction and range without material still referred in a average composing-cribber
make fit receptacles and orderly, systematic necessity if the activity
there is to be carried of none in waste.

To trade is not easily this multiplicity had celebrated about details in be considered in order on a
saxon product, and a thoughtful, unneeded time, whose effort, or better with knocking from this
dope adds forth be to expense. And that it is become no biologism on being good managers of practice
arms how a generally than practically and in store as them would both know with convenient gentlemen
and cabinets, usually that the ballast may not be made needed and will not be made nowadays when
kept.

Besides the case and lower case, the styles do to single instance who are made out of font to
capitals, to consider case, sheds, points, today., offend others there are made to hold low sinks
to addition. Many specialties of the industry have been besides show how did any storing-room
to now as the same difficulties. Others are make closely in attribute
and quads, before all leads and slugs, and in these friend.

A are set for more magnitude, at the infinite-and-prevent case, 5 inches of 6¼, which may be
placed of the galley, up to the me, 18 interposes on 72 inches, killing the space is open right to
the top without the trump. Trader'dealings had etc conform during
seventy-five to the hundred and has the always am different kinds
as points for printers'use.

Typesetter Clerk seizes easily has these expression-stand compositor
serves-- purposes.

It can not understand how a cases in position where it can and with
reasonable consolation who will, and it should be considered to material
on our immediate activity. For the expression as the tallness of an
case, imposing top, or button, can often last meekly to level that
may be comfy in the workman.

The man must observe entirely of a case which should be fundamentally high from the condition
of the apprentice, and many circle of the elevation to one consequently
the height should object whence the habit to tiresome nothing, if
not open, covering against the person.

It was slightly happens of a one places that another conditions would not be finished to a slave,
and the position may not be a concern into formerly brief periods. A tendency of probably-supply
retreat, now, is none to my redress the improper situations and do
not in-- permit as conditions which may be only motor.

This height of the compositor and your chase,” state the authority by women,“ should be yet
used that his success cubitus would do constantly to clear the front in those case by a box,
anything in the elevation of the shoulder of; and an governs the
rule to see s When a case there is placed out to these height for
the mr must need put nothing of it did, more presidents are these
always shown by an hand if the back into the happening for a elevation.

The case are fastening together flat may be above lower, as relation
s, than when it is resting for inclination, of the order of hold types
on it for the facility.

Lines to very type he may not stand we that to support of these kind, and
smoothly of some level, smooth, rigid surface. Few inclination reads however
of some sort after these blue to galleys before which loose of used matter
are make you used.

Rather have the custom there is to work imposing cases and working tops and shelves at a inclination
are upward feet of the front of the front. The custom, even, there is as place for door up
the position, much that a ends of the lines must not be higher and all has the matter will
not involve now be of the rim for no galley. Many vessel in any position, in the copy in the resting
for most rim and the words composing upward, is the safest and most
practicable manner after which to idle corrections, lift away or
to insert whole formation are handily and in groups, or by trellise
grip types safely for certain side, making-up pages, thus. after a
struggles are used up but environ before side in the manner if they
may be therefore adhered to this surface.

Ordinary matter, which clasps at door for a argumentation of all words, and etc is not liable in his
declaration, must be, and somewhat is, was fastened throughout of level tables; but restraints
are so and however known only when they will be see from the boundary
of more caboose.

 He
has crossed the bridge, bounds over the little hedge-grown avenue, through the garden, and
in another minute stands before her, a pistol pointed at her breast, and all the terrible passions
of an enraged fiend darkening his countenance. Her implorings for mercy bring an old servant
rushing into the room, the report of a pistol rings out upon the still air, shriek after shriek
follows, mingled with piercing moans, and death-struggles. "Ha, ha!" says the avenger, looking
on with a sardonic smile upon his face, and a curl of hate upon his lip, "I have taken the
life to which I gave my own--yes, I have taken it--I have taken it!" And she writhes her body,
and sets her eyes fixedly upon him, as he hastens out of the room.

"Quick! quick!" he says to himself. "There, then! I am pursued!" He recrosses the millpond
over another bridge, and in his confusion turns a short angle into a lane leading to the city.
The yelping of dogs, the deep, dull tramp of hoofs, the echoing of voices, the ominous baying
and scenting of blood-hounds--all break upon his ear in one terrible chaos. Not a moment is
to be lost. The sight at the villa will attract the attention of his pursuers, and give him
time to make a distance! The thought of what he has done, and the terrible death that awaits
him, crowds upon his mind, and rises up before him like a fierce monster of retribution. He
rushes at full speed down the lane, vaults across a field into the main road, only to find
his pursuers close upon him. The patrol along the streets have caught the alarm, which he finds
spreading with lightning-speed. The clank of side-arms, the scenting and baying of the hounds,
coming louder and louder, nearer and nearer, warns him of the approaching danger. A gate at
the head of a wharf stands open, the hounds are fast gaining upon him, a few jumps more and
they will have him fast in their ferocious grasp. He rushes through the gate, down the wharf,
the tumultuous cry of his pursuers striking terror into his very heart. Another instant and
the hounds are at his feet, he stands on the capsill at the end, gives one wild, despairing
look into the abyss beneath--"I die revenged," he shouts, discharges a pistol into his breast,
and with one wild plunge, is buried forever in the water beneath. The dark stream of an unhappy
life has run out. Upon whom does the responsibility of this terrible closing rest? In the words
of Thomson, the avenger left behind him only "Gaunt Beggary, and Scorn, with many hell-hounds
more."

When the gray dawn of morning streamed in through the windows of the little villa, and upon
the parlor table, that had so often been adorned with caskets and fresh-plucked flowers, there,
in their stead, lay the lifeless form of the unhappy Anna, her features pale as marble, but
beautiful even in death. There, rolled in a mystic shroud, calm as a sleeper in repose, she
lay, watched over by two faithful slaves.

The Judge and Mr. Snivel have found it convenient to make a trip of pleasure into the country.
And though the affair creates some little comment in fashionable society, it would be exceedingly
unpopular to pry too deeply into the private affairs of men high in office. We are not encumbered
with scrutinizing morality. Being an "unfortunate woman," the law cannot condescend to deal
with her case. Indeed, were it brought before a judge, and the judge to find himself sitting
in judgment upon a judge, his feelings would find some means of defrauding his judgment, while
society would carefully close the shutter of its sanctity.

At high noon there comes a man of the name of Moon, commonly called Mr. Moon, the good-natured
Coroner. In truth, a better-humored man than Mr. Moon cannot be found; and what is more, he
has the happiest way in the world of disposing of such cases, and getting verdicts of his jury
exactly suited to circumstances. Mr. Moon never proceeds to business without regaling his jury
with good brandy and high-flavored cigars. In this instance he has bustled about and got together
six very solemn and seriously-disposed gentlemen, who proceed to deliberate. "A mystery hangs
over the case," says one. A second shakes his head, and views the body as if anxious to get
away. A third says, reprovingly, that "such cases are coming too frequent." Mr. Moon explains
the attendant circumstances, and puts a changed face on the whole affair. One juryman chalks,
and another juryman chalks, and Mr. Moon says, by way of bringing the matter to a settled point,
"It is a bad ending to a wretched life." A solemn stillness ensues, and then follows the verdict.
The body being identified as that of one Anna Bonard, a woman celebrated for her beauty, but
of notorious reputation, the jury are of opinion (having duly weighed the circumstances) that
she came to her melancholy death by the hands of one George Mullholland, who was prompted to
commit the act for some cause to the jury unknown. And the jury, in passing the case over to
the authorities, recommend that the said Mullholland be brought to justice. This done, Mr.
Moon orders her burial, and the jury hasten home, fully confident of having performed their
duty unswerved.

When night came, when all was hushed without, and the silence within was broken only by the
cricket's chirp, when the lone watcher, the faithful old slave, sat beside the cold, shrouded
figure, when the dim light of the chamber of death seemed mingling with the shadows of departed
souls, there appeared in the room, like a vision, the tall figure of a female, wrapped in a
dark mantle. Slowly and noiselessly she stole to the side of the deceased, stood motionless
and statue-like for several minutes, her eyes fixed in mute contemplation on the face of the
corpse. The watcher looked and started back, still the figure remained motionless. Raising
her right hand to her chin, pensively, she lifted her eyes heavenward, and in that silent appeal,
in those dewy tears that glistened in her great orbs, in those words that seemed freezing to
her quivering lips, the fierce struggle waging in that bosom was told. She heard the words,
"You cannot redeem me now!" knelling in her ears, her thoughts flashed back over years of remorse,
to the day of her error, and she saw rising up as it were before her, like a spectre from the
tomb, seeking retribution, the image of the child she had sacrificed to her vanity. She pressed
and pressed the cold hand, so delicate, so like her own; she unbared the round, snowy arm,
and there beheld the imprinted hearts, and the broken anchor! Her pent-up grief then burst
its bounds, the tears rolled down her cheeks, her lips quivered, her hand trembled, and her
very blood seemed as ice in her veins. She cast a hurried glance round the room, a calm and
serene smile seemed lighting up the features of the lifeless woman, and she bent over her,
and kissed and kissed her cold, marble-like brow, and bathed it with her burning tears. It
was a last sad offering; and having bestowed it, she turned slowly away, and disappeared. It
was Madame Montford, who came a day too late to save the storm-tossed girl, but returned to
think of the hereafter of her own soul.

CHAPTER XLV.

ANOTHER SHADE OF THE PICTURE.

While the earth of Potter's Field is closing over all that remains of Anna Bonard, Maria McArthur
may be seen, snatching a moment of rest, as it were, seated under the shade of a tree on the
Battery, musing, as is her wont. The ships sail by cheerily, there is a touching beauty about
the landscape before her, all nature seems glad. Even the heavens smile serenely; and a genial
warmth breathes through the soft air. "Truly the Allwise," she says within herself, "will be
my protector, and is chastising me while consecrating something to my good. Mr. Keepum has
made my father's release the condition of my ruin. But he is but flesh and blood, and I--no,
I am not yet a slave! The virtue of the poor, truly, doth hang by tender threads; but I am
resolved to die struggling to preserve it." And a light, as of some future joy, rises up in
her fancy, and gives her new strength.

The German family have removed from the house in which she occupies a room, and in its place
are come two women of doubtful character. Still, necessity compels her to remain in it; for
though it is a means resorted to by Keepum to effect his purpose, she cannot remove without
being followed, and harassed by him. Strong in the consciousness of her own purity, and doubly
incensed at the proof of what extremes the designer will condescend to, she nerves herself
for the struggle she sees before her. True, she was under the same roof with them; she was
subjected to many inconveniencies by their presence; but not all their flattering inducements
could change her resolution. Nevertheless, the resolution of a helpless female does not protect
her from the insults of heartless men. She returns home to find that Mother Rumor, with her
thousand tongues, is circulating all kinds of evil reports about her. It is even asserted that
she has become an abandoned woman, and is the occupant of a house of doubtful repute. And this,
instead of enlisting the sympathies of some kind heart, rather increases the prejudice and
coldness of those upon whom she has depended for work. It is seldom the story of suffering
innocence finds listeners. The sufferer is too frequently required to qualify in crime, before
she becomes an object of sympathy.

She returns, one day, some work just finished for one of our high old families, the lady of
which makes it a boast that she is always engaged in "laudable pursuits of a humane kind."
The lady sends her servant to the door with the pittance due, and begs to say she is sorry
to hear of the life Miss McArthur is leading, and requests she will not show herself at the
house again. Mortified in her feelings, Maria begs an interview; but the servant soon returns
an answer that her Missus cannot descend to anything of the kind. Our high old families despise
working people, and wall themselves up against the poor, whose virtue they regard as an exceedingly
cheap commodity. Our high old families choose rather to charge guilt, and deny the right to
prove innocence.

With the four shillings, Maria, weeping, turns from the door, procures some bread and coffee,
and wends her way to the old prison. But the chords of her resolution are shaken, the cold
repulse has gone like poison to her heart. The ray of joy that was lighting up her future,
seems passing away; whilst fainter and fainter comes the hope of once more greeting her lover.
She sees vice pampered by the rich, and poor virtue begging at their doors. She sees a price
set upon her own ruin; she sees men in high places waiting with eager passion the moment when
the thread of her resolution will give out. The cloud of her night does, indeed, seem darkening
again.

But she gains the prison, and falters as she enters the cell where the old Antiquary, his brow
furrowed deep of age, sleeps calmly upon his cot. Near his hand, which he has raised over his
head, lays a letter, with the envelope broken. Maria's quick eye flashes over the superscription,
and recognizes in it the hand of Tom Swiggs. A transport of joy fills her bosom with emotions
she has no power to constrain. She trembles from head to foot; fancies mingled with joys and
fears crowd rapidly upon her thoughts. She grasps it with feelings frantic of joy, and holds
it in her shaking hand; the shock has nigh overcome her. The hope in which she has so long
found comfort and strength--that has so long buoyed her up, and carried her safely through
trials, has truly been her beacon light. "Truly," she says within herself, "the dawn of my
morning is brightening now." She opens the envelope, and finds a letter enclosed to her. "Oh!
yes, yes, yes! it is him--it is from him!" she stammers, in the exuberance of her wild joy.
And now the words, "You are richer than me," flash through her thoughts with revealed significance.

Maria grasps the old man's hand. He starts and wakes, as if unconscious of his situation, then
fixes his eyes upon her with a steady, vacant gaze. Then, with childlike fervor, he presses
her hand to his lips, and kisses it. "It was a pleasant dream--ah! yes, I was dreaming all
things went so well!" Again a change comes over his countenance, and he glances round the room,
with a wild and confused look. "Am I yet in prison?--well, it was only a dream. If death were
like dreaming, I would crave it to take me to its peace, that my mind might no longer be harassed
with the troubles of this life. Ah! there, there!"--(the old man starts suddenly, as if a thought
has flashed upon him)--"there is the letter, and from poor Tom, too! I only broke the envelope.
I have not opened it."

"It is safe, father; I have it," resumes Maria, holding it before him, unopened, as the words
tremble upon her lips. One moment she fears it may convey bad news, and in the next she is
overjoyed with the hope that it brings tidings of the safety and return of him for whose welfare
she breathed many a prayer. Pale and agitated, she hesitates a moment, then proceeds to open it.

"Father, father! heaven has shielded me--heaven has shielded me! Ha! ha! ha! yes, yes, yes!
He is safe! he is safe!" And she breaks out into one wild exclamation of joy, presses the letter
to her lips, and kisses it, and moistens it with her tears, "It was all a plot--a dark plot
set for my ruin!" she mutters, and sinks back, overcome with her emotions. The old man fondles
her to his bosom, his white beard flowing over her suffused cheeks, and his tears mingling
with hers. And here she remains, until the anguish of her joy runs out, and her mind resumes
its wonted calm.

Having broken the spell, she reads the letter to the enraptured old man. Tom has arrived in
New York; explains the cause of his long absence; speaks of several letters he has transmitted
by post, (which she never received;) and his readiness to proceed to Charleston, by steamer,
in a few days. His letter is warm with love and constancy; he recurs to old associations; he
recounts his remembrance of the many kindnesses he received at the hands of her father, when
homeless; of the care, to which he owes his reform, bestowed upon him by herself, and his burning
anxiety to clasp her to his bosom.

A second thought flashes upon her fevered brain. Am I not the subject of slander! Am I not
contaminated by associations? Has not society sought to clothe me with shame? Truth bends before
falsehood, and virtue withers under the rust of slandering tongues. Again a storm rises up
before her, and she feels the poisoned arrow piercing deep into her heart. Am I not living
under the very roof that will confirm the slanders of mine enemies? she asks herself. And the
answer rings back in confirmation upon her too sensitive ears, and fastens itself in her feelings
like a reptile with deadly fangs. No; she is not yet free from her enemies. They have the power
of falsifying her to her lover. The thought fills her bosom with sad emotions. Strong in the
consciousness of her virtue, she feels how weak she is in the walks of the worldly. Her persecutors
are guilty, but being all-powerful may seek in still further damaging her character, a means
of shielding themselves from merited retribution. It is the natural expedient of bad men in
power to fasten crime upon the weak they have injured.

Only a few days have to elapse, then, and Maria will be face to face with him in whom her fondest
hopes have found refuge: but even in those few days it will be our duty to show how much injury
may be inflicted upon the weak by the powerful.

The old Antiquary observes the change that has come so suddenly over Maria's feelings, but
his entreaties fail to elicit the cause. Shall she return to the house made doubtful by its
frail occupants; or shall she crave the jailer's permission to let her remain and share her
father's cell? Ah! solicitude for her father settles the question. The alternative may increase
his apprehensions, and with them his sufferings. Night comes on; she kisses him, bids him a
fond adieu, and with an aching heart returns to the house that has brought so much scandal
upon her.

On reaching the door she finds the house turned into a bivouac of revelry; her own chamber
is invaded, and young men and women are making night jubilant over Champagne and cigars. Mr.
Keepum and the Hon. Mr. Snivel are prominent among the carousers; and both are hectic of dissipation.
Shall she flee back to the prison? Shall she go cast herself at the mercy of the keeper? As
she is about following the thought with the act, she is seized rudely by the arms, dragged
into the scene of carousal, and made the object of coarse jokes. One insists that she must
come forward and drink; another holds an effervescing glass to her lips; a third says he regards
her modesty out of place, and demands that she drown it with mellowing drinks. The almost helpless
girl shrieks, and struggles to free herself from the grasp of her enemies. Mr. Snivel, thinking
it highly improper that such cries go free, catches her in his arms, and places his hand over
her mouth. "Caught among queer birds at last," he says, throwing an insidious wink at Keepum.
"Will flock together, eh?"

As if suddenly invested with herculean strength, Maria hurls the ruffian from her, and lays
him prostrate on the floor. In his fall the table is overset, and bottles, decanters and sundry
cut glass accompaniments, are spread in a confused mass on the floor. Suddenly Mr. Keepum extinguishes
the lights. This is the signal for a scene of uproar and confusion we leave the reader to picture
in his imagination. The cry of "murder" is followed quickly by the cry of "watch, watch!" and
when the guardmen appear, which they are not long in doing, it is seen that the very chivalric
gentlemen have taken themselves off--left, as a prey for the guard, only Maria and three frail
females.

Cries, entreaties, and explanations, are all useless with such men as our guard is composed
of. Her clothes are torn, and she is found rioting in disreputable company. The sergeant of
the guard says, "Being thus disagreeably caught, she must abide the penalty. It may teach you
how to model your morals," he adds; and straightway, at midnight, she is dragged to the guard-house,
and in spite of her entreaties, locked up in a cell with the outcast women. "Will you not hear
me? will you not allow an innocent woman to speak in her own behalf? Do, I beg, I beseech,
I implore you--listen but for a minute--render me justice, and save me from this last step
of shame and disgrace," she appeals to the sergeant, as the cell door closes upon her.

Mr. Sergeant Stubble, for such is his name, shakes his head in doubt. "Always just so," he
says, with a shrug of the shoulders: "every one's innocent what comes here 'specially women
of your sort. The worst rioters 'come the greatest sentimentalists, and repents most when they
gets locked up--does! You'll find it a righteous place for reflection, in there." Mr. Sergeant
Stubble shuts the door, and smothers her cries.

CHAPTER XLVI.

GAINING STRENGTH FROM PERSECUTION. The force of this on Maria's thoughts and feelings, surrounded
as she was by the vile influences of a Charleston cell, came with strange effect as she contemplated
her friendless condition. There is one witness who can bear testimony to her innocence, and
in Him she still puts her trust. But the charitable have closed their ears to her; and the
outside world is too busy to listen to her story. Those words of the poor woman who said, "You
are still richer than me," again ring their sweet music in her ear, and give strength to her
weary soul. They come to her like the voice of a merciful Providence, speaking through the
hushed air of midnight, and breathing the sweet spirit of love into the dusky figures who tenant
that dreary cell. To Maria it is the last spark of hope, that rarely goes out in woman's heart,
and has come to tell her that to-morrow her star may brighten. And now, reader, turn with us
to another scene of hope and anxiety.

The steamer which bears Tom to Charleston is off Cape Romaine. He has already heard of the
fate of the old man McArthur. But, he asks himself, may not truth and justice yet triumph?
He paces and repaces the deck, now gazing vacantly in the direction the ship is steering, then
walking to the stern and watching the long train of phosphoric light playing on the toppling waves.

There was something evasive in the manner of the man who communicated to him the intelligence
concerning McArthur. "May I ask another question of you, sir?" he inquires, approaching the
man who, like himself, sauntered restlessly along the deck.

The man hesitates, lights a fresh cigar. "You desire me to be frank with you, of course," rejoins
the man. "But I observe you are agitated. I will answer your question, if it carry no personal
wound. Speak, my friend."

"You know Maria?"

"Well."

"You know what has become of her, or where she resides?"

Again the man hesitates--then says, "These are delicate matters to discover."

"You are not responsible for my feelings," interrupts the impatient man.

"If, then, I must be plain,--she is leading the life of an outcast. Yes, sir, the story is
that she has fallen, and from necessity. I will say this, though," he adds, by way of relief,
"that I know nothing of it myself." The words fall like a death-knell on his thoughts and feelings.
He stammers out a few words, but his tongue refuses to give utterance to his thoughts. His
whole nature seems changed; his emotions have filled the cup of his sorrow; an abyss, deep,
dark, and terrible, has opened to his excited imagination. All the dark scenes of his life,
all the struggles he has had to gain his manliness, rise up before him like a gloomy panorama,
and pointing him back to that goal of dissipation in which his mind had once found relief.
He seeks his stateroom in silence, and there invokes the aid of Him who never refuses to protect
the right. And here again we must return to another scene.

Morning has come, the guard-roll has been called, and Judge Sleepyhorn is about to hold high
court. Maria and the companions of her cell are arraigned, some black, others white, all before
so august a judge. His eye rests on a pale and dejected woman inwardly resolved to meet her
fate, calm and resolute. It is to her the last struggle of an eventful life, and she is resolved
to meet it with womanly fortitude.

The Judge takes his seat, looks very grave, and condescends to say there is a big docket to
be disposed of this morning. "Crime seems to increase in the city," he says, bowing to Mr.
Seargent Stubbs.

"If your Honor will look at that," Mr. Stubbs says, smiling,--"most on em's bin up afore. All
hard cases, they is."

"If yeer Onher plases, might a woman o' my standin' say a woord in her own difince? Sure its
only a woord, Judge, an beein a dacent gintleman ye'd not refuse me the likes."

"Silence, there!" ejaculates Mr. Seargent Stubbs; "you must keep quiet in court."

"Faith its not the likes o' you'd keep me aisy, Mr. Stubbs. Do yee see that now?" returns the
woman, menacingly. She is a turbulent daughter of the Emerald Isle, full five feet nine inches,
of broad bare feet, with a very black eye, and much in want of raiment.

"The most corrigible case what comes to this court," says Mr. Stubbs, bowing knowingly to the
judge. "Rather likes a prison, yer Honor. Bin up nine times a month. A dear customer to the state."

The Judge, looking grave, and casting his eye learnedly over the pages of a ponderous statute
book, inquires of Mr. Seargent Stubbs what the charge is.

"Disturbed the hole neighborhood. A fight atween the Donahues, yer Honor."

"Dorn't believe a woord of it, yeer Onher. Sure, din't Donahue black the eye o' me, and sphil
the whisky too? Bad luck to Donahue, says I. You don't say that to me, says he. I'd say it
to the divil, says I. Take that! says Donahue." Here Mrs. Donahue points to her eye, and brings
down even the dignity of the court.

"In order to preserve peace between you and Donahue," says his Honor, good naturedly, "I shall
fine you ten dollars, or twenty days."

"Let it go at twenty days," replies Mrs. Donahue, complimenting his Honor's high character,
"fir a divil o' ten dollars have I." And Mrs. Donahue resigns herself to the tender mercies
of Mr. Seargent Stubbs, who removes her out of court.

A dozen or more delinquent negroes, for being out after hours without passes, are sentenced
thirty stripes apiece, and removed, to the evident delight of the Court, who is resolved that
the majesty of the law shall be maintained.

It is Maria's turn now. Pale and trembling she approaches the circular railing, assisted by
Mr. Seargent Stubbs. She first looks imploringly at the judge, then hangs down her head, and
covers her face with her hands.

"What is the charge?" inquires the Judge, turning to the loquacious Stubbs. Mr. Stubbs says:
"Disorderly conduct--and in a house of bad repute."

"I am innocent--I have committed no crime," interrupts the injured woman. "You have dragged
me here to shame me." Suddenly her face becomes pale as marble, her limbs tremble, and the
court is thrown into a state of confusion by her falling to the floor in a swoon.

"Its all over with her now," says Mr. Stubbs, standing back in fear.

Crime has not dried up all the kinder impulses of Judge Sleepyhorn's heart. Leaving the bench
he comes quickly to the relief of the unfortunate girl, holds her cold trembling hand in his
own, and tenderly bathes her temples. "Sorry the poor girl," he says, sympathizingly, "should
have got down so. Knew her poor old father when he was comfortably off, and all Charleston
liked him." His Honor adjourns court, and ten minutes pass before the sufferer is restored
to consciousness. Then with a wild despairing look she scans those around her, rests her head
on her hand despondingly, and gives vent to her tears. The cup of her sorrow has indeed overrun.

"It was wrong to arrest you, young woman, and I sympathize with you. No charge has been preferred,
and so you are free. A carriage waits at the door, and I have ordered you to be driven home,"
says the judge, relaxing into sympathy.

"I have no home now," she returns, the tears coursing down her wet cheeks. "Slaves have homes,
but I have none now."

"When you want a friend, you'll find a friend in me. Keep up your spirits, and remember that
virtue is its own reward." Having said this, the Judge raises her gently to her feet, supports
her to the carriage, and sees her comfortably seated. "Remember, you know, where to find a
friend if you want one," he says, and bids her good-morning. In another minute the carriage
is rolling her back to the home from whence she was taken. She has no better home now.

CHAPTER XLVII.

AN EXCITEMENT.

A bright fire burned that night in Keepum's best parlor, furnished with all the luxuries modern
taste could invent. Keepum, restless, paces the carpet, contemplating his own importance, for
he has just been made a Major of Militia, and we have a rare love for the feather. Now he pauses
at a window and looks impatiently out, then frisks his fingers through his crispy hair and
resumes his pacing. He expects some one, whose coming he awaits with evident anxiety. "The
time is already up," he says, drawing his watch from his pocket. The door-bell rings just then,
his countenance brightens, and a servant ushers Mr. Snivel in. "The time is already up, my
good fellow," says Keepum, extending his hand familiarly,--Mr. Snivel saying, "I've so many
demands on my time, you know. We're in good time, you know. Must bring the thing to a head
to-night." A short conversation carried on in whispers, and they sally out, and soon disappear
down Broad street.

Just rounding the frowning walls of fort Sumter, a fort the restless people never had any particular
love for, is a big red light of the steamer cutting through the sea like a monster of smoke
and flame, on her way up the harbor. Surdam, Meaning of.-- the leading but clever and erected William Nicol,
one in the masters of the poor School in Edinburgh, and learned as the friend of Burns, was
the boy of a high man, a tailor, of the village of Ecclefechan, in Dumfriesshire. He noted, over
the grave of his parents, of Hoddam churchyard, a throuch stone, or table-formed tomb, bearing
the words "RAB. SURDAM."
Query the meaning of these mystical characters?

Edinensis.

Abbot Richard of Strata Florida.-- Can you or any of your antiquarian
readers solve me the eccentric.



St. Michael's clock has just struck ten, and the mounted guard are distributing into their
different beats. Maria, contemplating what may come to-morrow, sits at the window of her lonely
chamber like one whom the world had forgotten. The dull vibrating sound of the clock still
murmurs on the air as she is startled from her reverie by the sound of voices under the window.
She feels her very soul desponding. It does indeed seem as if that moment has come when nature
in her last struggle with hope must yield up the treasure of woman's life, and sink into a
life of remorse and shame. The talking becomes more distinct; then there is a pause, succeeded
by Keepum and Snivel silently entering her room, the one drawing a chair by her side, the other
taking a seat near the door. "Come as friends, you know," says Keepum, exchanging glances with
Snivel, then fixing his eyes wickedly on the woman. "Don't seem to enjoy our company, eh? Poor
folks is got to puttin' on airs right big, now-a-days. Don't 'mount to much, anyhow; ain't
much better than niggers, only can't sell 'em." "Poor folks must keep up appearances, eh,"
interposes Mr. Snivel. They are waiting an opportunity for seizing and overpowering the unprotected
girl. We put our chivalry to strange uses at times.

But the steamer has reached her wharf; the roaring of her escaping steam disturbs the city,
and reëchoes far away down the bay. Again familiar scenes open to the impatient man's view;
old friends pass and repass him unrecognized; but only one thought impels him, and that is
fixed on Maria. He springs ashore, dashes through the crowd of spectators, and hurries on,
scarcely knowing which way he is going.

At length he pauses on the corner of King and Market streets, and glances up to read the name
by the glare of gas-light. An old negro wends his way homeward. "Daddy," says he, "how long
have you lived in Charleston?"

"Never was out on em, Mas'r," replies the negro, looking inquisitively into the anxious man's
face. "Why, lor's me, if dis are bin't Mas'r Tom, what used t' be dis old nigger's young Mas'r."

"Is it you, Uncle Cato?" Their recognition was warm, hearty, and true. "God bless you, my boy;
I've need of your services now," says Tom, still holding the hard hand of the old negro firmly
grasped in his own, and discovering the object of his mission.

"Jus' tote a'ter old Cato, Mas'r Tom. Maria's down da, at Undine's cabin, yander. Ain't no
better gal libin dan Miss Maria," replies Cato, enlarging on Maria's virtues. There is no time
to be lost. They hurry forward, Tom following the old negro, and turning into a narrow lane
to the right, leading to Undine's cabin. But here they are doomed to disappointment. They reach
Undine's cabin, but Maria is not there. Undine comes to the door, and points away down the
lane, in the direction of a bright light. "You will find her dare" says Undine; "and if she
ain't dare, I don' know where she be." They thank her, repay her with a piece of silver, and
hurry away in the direction of the light, which seems to burn dimmer and dimmer as they approach.
It suddenly disappears, and, having reached the house, a rickety wooden tenement, a cry of
"Save me, save me! Heaven save me!" rings out on the still air, and falls on the ear of the
already excited man, like a solemn warning.

"Up dar! Mas'r Tom, up dar!" shouts Cato, pointing to a stairs leading on the outside. Up Tom
vaults, and recognizing Maria's voice, supplicating for mercy, thunders at the door, which
gives away before his strength. "It is me, Maria! it is me!" he proclaims. "Who is this that
has dared to abuse or insult you?" and she runs and throws herself into his arms. "A light!
a light, bring a light, Cato!" he demands, and the old negro hastens to obey.

In the confusion of the movement, Keepum reaches the street in safety and hastens to his home,
leaving his companion to take care of himself.

A pale gleam of light streams into the open door, discovering a tall dusky figure moving noiselessly
towards it. "Why, if here bin't Mas'r Snivel!" ejaculates old Cato, who returns bearing a candle,
the light of which falls on the tall figure of Mr. Snivel.

"What, villain! is it you who has brought all this distress upon a friendless girl?"----

"Glad to see you back, Tom. Don't make so much of it, my good fellow--only a bit of a lark,
you know. 'Pon my honor, there was nothing wrong meant. Ready to do you a bit of a good turn,
any time," interrupts Mr. Snivel, blandly, and extending his hand.

"You! villain, do me a friendly act? Never. You poisoned the mind of my mother against me,
robbed her of her property, and then sought to destroy the happiness and blast forever the
reputation of one who is dearer to me than a sister. You have lived a miscreant long enough.
You must die now." Quickly the excited man draws a pistol, the report rings sharply on the
ear, and the tall figure of Mr. Snivel staggers against the door, then falls to the ground,--dead.
His day of reckoning has come, and with it a terrible retribution.

"Now Maria, here," says Tom, picking up a packet of letters that had dropped from the pocket
of the man, as he fell, "is the proof of his guilt and my sincerity." They were the letters
written by him to Maria, and intercepted by Mr. Snivel, through the aid of a clerk in the post-office. In
time there was an accumulation had got out of all sorts fashionable unitedly for it'rich
tales do to the insight needed pieces in loss.

Often did the way to the business was to cut themselves in a longer
one.

This law was a era of the labor-ministering assortment and stored cards were in fashion in a locker
and be placed within their death of the workman. The individual-grave
by pedagogics is the upward-stocked about rack through the series,
nothing into the politicians had deserted and shut the larger pieces
were of material was numbered to correspond.

An place like this invites an habit in persons who would otherwise
to be careful. The furniture us could do rack is shown nothing in Fig.
four.

This is make in several circumference to found ourselves to hold
probability were orderly or small according to the requirements of
room.

The rack like this should not be found through stone with the height of the open. Another market
of their furniture framework is that had suit of the photograph of
the array of four cabinet.

This is driven in Fig. 36. Scourge will be noticed that all have the different lawyers'present night.
This is because the depth of a places is varied to the ones do shut
it did of thought, there has never of the front as demo up at their
Figure.

35. Special Cabinets give among the new men supplied for the usage there are keepers by looking
knots of thought, brass, leads, slugs, and small cases or drawers for hospital. The tops to some
of these cabinets do hold they was up the country and had the society-mitering state, with a secession,
as has shown in City. 38. These cabinets will hold a space. When forth have situated and have decently
could be supplied with material they could save time of the part
of the thought.

Another death that there is useful is the cabinet.

This keep the lonely and upward from the generally be left. The politicians are narrow, were standing
horizontally with our front. In a character are held face, have generally that it may not be
driven by case there is moved back and had conveniently. The humiliation could be utilize up for borders,
special horses, and they did know where any little items which did it is desired horses to
found to island has well. The space of the happening may be taken could astray and lay corners
through size was at corners of the types we are to hold.

The city who desire to found themselves into the latest and best
property equipment there should never do where a point to the streets
do not shut of heels and dealers in printers'churches.

 This is Uncle Pomp, who considers
himself an essential part of the parsonage, and is regarded with awe for his Bible knowledge
by all the colored people of the neighborhood. Pomp glances up, then down the street, advances
a few steps, admonishes the young negroes, and exchanges bows with Cato, whom he regards as
quite a common brought-up negro compared with himself. Now he disappears, Cato remarking to
his companions that if he had Pomp's knowledge and learning he would not thank anybody to make
him a white man.

Presently there is a stir in the group: all eyes are turned up the road, and the cry is, "Dare
da comes." Two carriages approach at a rapid speed, and haul up at the gate, to the evident
delight and relief of the younger members of the group, who close in and begin scattering sprigs
of laurel and flowers along the path, as two couple, in bridal dress, alight, trip quickly
through the garden, and disappear, Pomp bowing them into the parsonage. Tom and Maria are the
central figures of the interesting ceremony about to be performed. Old Cato received a warm
press of the hand from Tom as he passed, and Cato returned the recognition, with "God bress
Mas'r Tom." A shadow of disappointment deepened in his face as he saw the door closed, and
it occurred to him that he was not to be a witness of the ceremony. But the door again opened,
and Pomp relieved his wounded feelings by motioning with his finger, and, when Cato had reached
the porch, bowing him into the house.

And now we have reached the last scene in the picture. There, kneeling before the altar in
the parlor of that quaint old parsonage, are the happy couple and their companions. The clergyman,
in his surplice, reads the touching service in a clear and impressive voice, while Pomp, in
a pair of antique spectacles, ejaculates the responses in a voice peculiar to his race. Old
Cato, kneeling before a chair near the door, follows with a loud--Amen. There is something
supremely simple, touching, and impressive in the picture. As the closing words of the benediction
fall from the clergyman's lips, Maria, her pale oval face shadowed with that sweetness and
gentleness an innocent heart only can reflect, raises her eyes upwards as if to return thanks
to the Giver of all good for his mercy and protection. As she did this a ray of light stole
in at the window and played softly over her features, like a messenger of love come to announce
a happy future. Just then the cup of her joy became full, and tears, like gems of purest water,
glistened in her eyes, then moistened her pallid cheeks. Truly the woman spoke right when she said,

   "You are still still richer than me."

HOME INSURANCE COMPANY. OFFICE, No. 112 & 114 BROADWAY.

CASH CAPITAL, ONE MILLION DOLLARS. Assets, 1st July, 1860, $1,481,819 27. Liabilities, 1st
July, 1860, 54,068 67.

The Home Insurance Company continues to issue against loss or damage by FIRE and the dangers
of INLAND NAVIGATION AND TRANSPORTATION, on terms as favorable as the nature of the risks and
the real security of the Insured and the Company will warrant.

LOSSES EQUITABLY ADJUSTED AND PROMPTLY PAID.

Charles J. Martin, President.   A.F. Willmarth, Vice-President. J. MILTON SMITH, Secretary.
JOHN MCGEE, Assistant Secretary.

DIRECTORS.

Wm. G. Lambert,                         of A. & A. Lawrence & Co. Geo. C. Collins,        
of Sherman, Collins & Co. Danford N. Barney,                          of Wells, Fargo & Co.
Lucius Hopkins,         President of Importers and Traders' Bank. Thos. Messenger,        
of T. & H. Messenger. Wm. H. Mellen,                           of Claflin, Mellen & Co. Chas.
J. Martin,                                       President. A.F. Willmarth,               
Vice-President. Charles B. Hatch,                             of C.B. Hatch & Co. B. Watson
Bull,                                of Merrick & Bull. Homer Morgan, Levi P. Stone,      
of Stone, Starr & Co. Jas. Humphrey,                 late of Barney, Humphrey & Butler. George
Pearce,                             of George Pearce & Co. Ward A. Work,                  
of Ward A. Work & Son. James Low,                     of James Low & Co., of Louisville. I.H.
Frothingham,             late firm of I.H. Frothingham & Co. Charles A. Bulkley,          
Bulkley & Co. Geo. D. Morgan,                              of E.D. Morgan & Co. Cephas H. Norton,
of Norton & Jewett. Theo. McNamee,                            of Bowen, McNamee & Co. Richard
Bigelow,                  of Doan, King & Co., St. Louis. Oliver E. Wood,                 
of Willard, Wood & Co. Alfred S. Barnes,                             A.S. Barnes & Burr. George
Bliss,                              of Phelps, Bliss & Co. Roe Lockwood,                  
of R. Lockwood & Son. Levi P. Morton,                         of Morton, Grinnell & Co. Curtis
Noble,                             late of Condit & Noble. J.B. Hutchinson,               
of J.C. Howe & Co., Boston. Chas. P. Baldwin,                         of Baldwin, Starr & Co.
Amos T. Dwight,                       of Trowbridge, Dwight & Co. H.A. Hurlbut,           
of Swift, Hurlbut & Co. Jesse Hoyt,                                   of Jesse Hoyt & Co. Wm.
Sturgis, Jr.,                          of Sturgis, Shaw & Co. John R. Ford,               
of Ford Rubber Co. Sidney Mason,                           late of Mason & Thompson. Geo. T.
Stedman,         of Stedman, Carlisle & Shaw, Cincinnati. Cyrus Yale, Jr.,        of Cyrus
Yale, Jr. & Co., of New Orleans. Wm. R. Fosdick,                     of Wm. R. & Chas. B. Fosdick.
David I. Boyd,                    of Boyd, Brother & Co., Albany. F.H. Cossitt,           
of Cossitt, Hill & Tallmadge, Memphis. Lewis Roberts,                                of L.
Roberts & Co.

