It must be remembered, too, that during the years from 1783 to 1790 the British government
was doing a great deal for the Loyalists in other ways. Many of the better class received offices
under the crown. Sir John Johnson was appointed superintendent of the Loyalists in Canada,
and then superintendent of Indian Affairs; Colonel Edmund Fanning was made lieutenant-governor
of Nova Scotia; Ward Chipman became solicitor-general of New Brunswick. The officers of the
Loyalist regiments were put on half-pay; and there is evidence that many were allowed thus
to rank as half-pay officers who had no real claim to the title. 'Many,' said the Rev. William
Smart of Brockville, 'were placed on the list of officers, not because they had seen service,
but as the most certain way of compensating them for losses sustained in the Rebellion'; and
Haldimand himself complained that 'there is no end to it if every man that comes in is to be
considered and paid as an officer.' Then every Loyalist who wished to do so received a grant
of land. The rule was that each field officer should receive 5,000 acres, each captain 3,000,
each subaltern 2,000, and each non-commissioned officer and private 200 acres. This rule was
not uniformly observed, and there was great irregularity in the size of the grants. Major Van
Alstine, for instance, received only 1,200 acres. But in what was afterwards Upper Canada,
3,200,000 acres were granted out to Loyalists before 1787. And in addition to all this, the
British government clothed and fed and housed the Loyalists until they were able to provide
for themselves. There were those in Nova Scotia who were receiving rations as late as 1792.
What all this must have cost the government during the years following 1783 it is difficult
to compute. Including the cost of surveys, official salaries, the building of saw-mills and
grist-mills, and such things, the figures must have run up to several millions of pounds.

When it is remembered that all this had been already done, it will be admitted to be a proof
of the generosity of the British government that the total of the claims allowed by the royal
commission amounted to 3,112,455 pounds. 

"I do hope Mr. Martin will play fair," said Sue. "It would be too
bad to cheat a little boy."

So Mr. Martin laid down and tried it, but he didn't like it one bit. "See here, Jimmy," said
he, "I'll give you half a dollar, and we'll consider the peg drawn." Unfortunately, the land
boards carried out these instructions in a very half-hearted manner, and when Colonel John
Graves Simcoe became lieutenant-governor of Upper Canada, he found the regulation a dead letter.
He therefore revived it in a proclamation issued at York (now Toronto), on April 6, 1796, which
directed the magistrates to ascertain under oath and to register the names of all those who
by reason of their loyalty to the Empire were entitled to special distinction and grants of
land. A list was compiled from the land board registers, from the provision lists and muster
lists, and from the registrations made upon oath, which was known as the 'Old U. E. List';
and it is a fact often forgotten that no one, the names of some of whose ancestors are not
inscribed in that list, has the right to describe himself as a United Empire Loyalist.

CHAPTER XII

THE AMERICAN MIGRATION

From the first the problem of governing the settlements above Montreal perplexed the authorities.
It was very early proposed to erect them into a separate province, as New Brunswick had been
erected into a separate province. But Lord Dorchester was opposed to any such arrangement.
'It appears to me,' he wrote to Lord Sydney, 'that the western settlements are as yet unprepared
for any organization superior to that of a county.' In 1787, therefore, the country west of
Montreal was divided into four districts, for a time named Lunenburg, Mecklenburg, Nassau,
and Hesse. Lunenburg stretched from the western boundary of the province of Quebec to the Gananoqui;
Mecklenburg, from the Gananoqui to the Trent, flowing into the Bay of Quinte; Nassau, from
the Trent to a line drawn due north from Long Point on Lake Erie; and Hesse, from this line
to Detroit. We do not know who was responsible for inflicting these names on a new and unoffending
country. Perhaps they were thought a compliment to the Hanoverian ruler of England. Fortunately
they were soon dropped, and the names Eastern, Midland, Home, and Western were substituted.

This division of the settlements proved only temporary. It left the Loyalists under the arbitrary
system of government set up in Quebec by the Quebec Act of 1774, under which they enjoyed no
representative institutions whatever. It was not long before petitions began to pour in from
them asking that they should be granted a representative assembly. Undoubtedly Lord Dorchester
had underestimated the desire among them for representative institutions. In 1791, therefore,
the country west of the Ottawa river, with the exception of a triangle of land at the junction
of the Ottawa and the St Lawrence, was erected by the Constitutional Act into a separate province,
with the name of Upper Canada; and this province was granted a representative assembly of fifteen
members.

The lieutenant-governor appointed for the new province was Colonel John Graves Simcoe. During
the war Colonel Simcoe had been the commanding officer of the Queen's Rangers, which had been
largely composed of Loyalists, and he was therefore not unfitted to govern the new province.
He was theoretically under the control of Lord Dorchester at Quebec; but his relations with
Dorchester were somewhat strained, and he succeeded in making himself virtually independent
in his western jurisdiction. Though he seemed phlegmatic, he possessed a vigorous and enterprising
disposition, and he planned great things for Upper Canada. He explored the country in search
of the best site for a capital; and it is interesting to know that he had such faith in the
future of Upper Canada that he actually contemplated placing the capital in what was then the
virgin wilderness about the river Thames. He inaugurated a policy of building roads and improving
communications which showed great foresight; and he entered upon an immigration propaganda,
by means of proclamations advertising free land grants, which brought a great increase of population
to the province.

Simcoe believed that there were still in the United States after 1791 many people who had remained
loyal at heart to Great Britain, and who were profoundly dissatisfied with their lot under
the new American government. It was his object to attract these people to Upper Canada by means
of his proclamations; and there is no doubt that he was partly successful. But he also attracted
many who had no other motive in coming to Canada than their desire to obtain free land grants,
and whose attachment to the British crown was of the most recent origin. These people were
freely branded by the original settlers as 'Americans'; and there is no doubt that in many
cases the name expressed their real sympathies.

The War of the Revolution had hardly been brought to a conclusion when some of the Americans
showed a tendency to migrate into Canada. In 1783, when the American Colonel Willet was attempting
an attack on the British garrison at Oswego, American traders, with an impudence which was
superb, were arriving at Niagara. In 1784 some rebels who had attempted to pose as Loyalists
were ejected from the settlements at Cataraqui. And after Simcoe began to advertise free land
grants to all who would take the oath of allegiance to King George, hundreds of Americans flocked
across the border. The Duc de la Rochefoucauld, a French emigre who travelled through Upper
Canada in 1795, and who has given us the best account of the province at that time, asserted
that there were in Upper Canada many who falsely profess an attachment to the British monarch
and curse the Government of the Union for the mere purpose of getting possession of the lands.'
'We met in this excursion,' says La Rochefoucauld in another place, 'an American family who,
with some oxen, cows, and sheep, were emigrating to Canada. "We come," said they, "to the governor,"
whom they did not know, "to see whether he will give us land." "Aye, aye," the governor replied,
"you are tired of the federal government; you like not any longer to have so many kings; you
wish again for your old father" (it is thus the governor calls the British monarch when he
speaks with Americans); "you are perfectly right; come along, we love such good Royalists as
you are; we will give you land."'

Other testimony is not lacking. Writing in 1799 Richard Cartwright said, 'It has so happened
that a great portion of the population of that part of the province which extends from the
head of the Bay of Kenty upwards is composed of persons who have evidently no claim to the
appellation of Loyalists.' In some districts it was a cause of grievance that persons from
the States entered the province, petitioned for lands, took the necessary oaths, and, having
obtained possession of the land, resold it, pocketed the money, and returned to build up the
American Union. As late as 1816 a letter appeared in the Kingston Gazette in which the complaint
is made that 'people who have come into the country from the States, marry into a family, and
obtain a lot of wild land, get John Ryder to move the landmarks, and instead of a wild lot,
take by force a fine house and barn and orchard, and a well-cultivated farm, and turn the old
Tory (as he is called) out of his house, and all his labor for thirty years.'

Never at any other time perhaps have conditions been so favourable in Canada for land-grabbing
and land-speculation as they were then. Owing to the large amount of land granted to absentee
owners, and to the policy of free land grants announced by Simcoe, land was sold at a very
low price. In some cases two hundred acre lots were sold for a gallon of rum. In 1791 Sir William
Pullency, an English speculator, bought 1,500,000 acres of land in Upper Canada at one shilling
an acre, and sold 700,000 acres later for an average of eight shillings an acre. Under these
circumstances it was not surprising that many Americans, with their shrewd business instincts,
flocked into the country.

It is clear, then, that a large part of the immigration which took place under Simcoe was not
Loyalist in its character. From this, it must not be understood that the new-comers were not
good settlers. Even Richard Cartwright confessed that they had 'resources in themselves which
other people are usually strangers to.' They compared very favourably with the Loyalists who
came from England and the Maritime Provinces, who were described by Cartwright as 'idle and
profligate.' The great majority of the American settlers became loyal subjects of the British
crown; and it was only when the American army invaded Canada in 1812, and when William Lyon
Mackenzie made a push for independence in 1837, that the non-Loyalist character of some of
the early immigration became apparent.

CHAPTER XIII

THE LOYALIST IN HIS NEW HOME

The social history of the United Empire Loyalists was not greatly different from that of other
pioneer settlers in the Canadian forest. Their homes were such as could have been seen until
recently in many of the outlying parts of the country. In Nova Scotia and New Brunswick some
of the better class of settlers were able to put up large and comfortable wooden houses, some
of which are still standing. But even there most of them had to be content with primitive quarters.
Edward Winslow was not a poor man, as poverty was reckoned in those days. Yet he lived in rather
meagre style. He described his house at Granville, opposite Annapolis, as being 'almost as
large as my log house, divided into two rooms, where we are snug as pokers.' Two years later,
after he had made additions to it, he proposed advertising it for sale in the following terms:
'That elegant House now occupied by the Honourable E. W., one of His Majesty's Council for
the Province of New Brunswick, consisting of four beautiful Rooms on the first Floor, highly
finished. Also two spacious lodging chambers in the second story--a capacious dry cellar with
arches &c. &c. &c.' In Upper Canada, owing to the difficulty of obtaining building materials,
the houses of the half-pay officers were even less pretentious. A traveller passing through
the country about Johnstown in 1792 described Sir John Johnson's house as 'a small country
lodge, neat, but as the grounds are only beginning to be cleared, there was nothing of interest.'

The home of the average Loyalist was a log-cabin. Sometimes the cabin contained one room, sometimes
two. Its dimensions were as a rule no more than fourteen feet by eighteen feet, and sometimes
ten by fifteen. The roofs were constructed of bark or small hollowed basswood logs, overlapping
one another like tiles. The windows were as often as not covered not with glass, but with oiled
paper. The chimneys were built of sticks and clay, or rough unmortared stones, since bricks
were not procurable; sometimes there was no chimney, and the smoke was allowed to find its
way out through a hole in the bark roof. Where it was impossible to obtain lumber, the doors
were made of pieces of timber split into rough boards; and in some cases the hinges and latches
were made of wood. These old log cabins, with the chinks between the logs filled in with clay
and moss, were still to be seen standing in many parts of the country as late as fifty years
ago. Though primitive, they seem to have been not uncomfortable; and many of the old settlers
clung to them long after they could have afforded to build better. This was doubtless partly
due to the fact that log-houses were exempt from the taxation laid on frame, brick, and stone
structures. 

There is a higher value of sixty dollars. These stamps are perfect gems, and are among the most
beautiful in the world.

Fig. 2 represents one of the stamps in use to-day in Japan. It is only necessary to compare a specimen
of this issue with the first stamps used in Japan to see how rapidly the Japanese acquire every modern
improvement.

Fig. 3 is one of the current Guatemala stamps, printed in Paris, which
found their way to collectors before they were delivered to the government.
The thick black line on either side is a bird's tail-- the quezal,
or national bird, one of the most beautiful on this continent.

Figs.
4 and 5 represent stamps used in two of the native states of India.

The clothing of the settlers was of the most varied description. Here and there was one who
had brought with him the tight knee-breeches and silver-buckled shoes of polite society. But
many had arrived with only what was on their backs; and these soon found their garments, no
matter how carefully darned and patched, succumb to the effects of time and labour. It was
not long before the settlers learnt from the Indians the art of making clothing out of deer-skin.
Trousers made of this material were found both comfortable and durable. 'A gentleman who recently
died in Sophiasburg at an advanced age, remembered to have worn a pair for twelve years, being
repaired occasionally, and at the end they were sold for two dollars and a half.' Petticoats
for women were also made of deer-skin. 'My grandmother,' says one descendant, 'made all sorts
of useful dresses with these skins, which were most comfortable for a country life, and for
going through the bush [since they] could not be torn by the branches.' There were of course,
some articles of clothing which could not readily be made of leather; and very early the settlers
commenced growing flax and raising sheep for their wool. Home-made linen and clothing of linsey-woolsey
were used in the settlements by high and low alike. It was not until the close of the eighteenth
century that articles of apparel, other than those made at home of flax and wool, were easily
obtainable. A calico dress was a great luxury. Few daughters expected to have one until it
was bought for their wedding-dress. Great efforts were always made to array the bride in fitting
costume; and sometimes a dress, worn by the mother in other days, amid other scenes, was brought
forth, yellow and discoloured with the lapse of time.

There was little money in the settlements. What little there was came in pay to the soldiers
or the half-pay officers. Among the greater part of the population, business was carried on
by barter. In Upper Canada the lack of specie was partly overcome by the use of a kind of paper
money. 'This money consists of small squares of card or paper, on which are printed promissory
notes for various sums. These notes are made payable once a year, generally about the latter
end of September at Montreal. The name of the merchant or firm is subscribed.' This was merely
an extension of the system of credit still in use with country merchants, but it provided the
settlers with a very convenient substitute for cash. The merchants did not suffer, as frequently
this paper money was lost, and never presented; and cases were known of its use by Indians
as wadding for their flint-locks.

Social instincts among the settlers were strongly marked. Whenever a family was erecting a
house or barn, the neighbours as a rule lent a helping hand. While the men were raising barn-timbers
and roof-trees, the women gathered about the quilting-frames or the spinning-wheels. After
the work was done, it was usual to have a festival. The young men wrestled and showed their
prowess at trials of strength; the rest looked on and applauded. In the evening there was a
dance, at which the local musician scraped out tuneless tunes on an ancient fiddle; and there
was of course hearty eating and, it is to be feared, heavy drinking.

Schools and churches were few and far between. A number of Loyalist clergy settled both in
Nova Scotia and in Upper Canada, and these held services and taught school in the chief centres
of population. The Rev. John Stuart was, for instance, appointed chaplain in 1784 at Cataraqui;
and in 1786 he opened an academy there, for which he received government aid. In time other
schools sprang up, taught by retired soldiers or farmers who were incapacitated for other work.
The tuition given in these schools was of the most elementary sort. La Rochefoucauld, writing
of Cataraqui in 1795, says: 'In this district are some schools, but they are few in number.
The children are instructed in reading and writing, and pay each a dollar a month. One of the
masters, superior to the rest in point of knowledge, taught Latin; but he has left the school,
without being succeeded by another instructor of the same learning.' 'At seven years of age,'
writes the son of a Loyalist family, 'I was one of those who patronized Mrs Cranahan, who opened
a Sylvan Seminary for the young idea in Adolphustown; from thence, I went to Jonathan Clark's,
and then tried Thomas Morden, lastly William Faulkiner, a relative of the Hagermans. You may
suppose that these graduations to Parnassus was [sic] carried into effect, because a large
amount of knowledge could be obtained. Not so; for Dilworth's Spelling Book, and the New Testament,
were the only books possessed by these academies.'

The lack of a clergy was even more marked. When Bishop Mountain visited Upper Canada in 1794,
he found only one Lutheran chapel and two Presbyterian churches between Montreal and Kingston.
At Kingston he found 'a small but decent church,' and about the Bay of Quinte there were three
or four log huts which were used by the Church of England missionary in the neighbourhood.
At Niagara there was a clergyman, but no church; the services were held in the Freemasons'
Hall. This lack of a regularly-ordained clergy was partly remedied by a number of itinerant
Methodist preachers or 'exhorters.' These men were described by Bishop Mountain as 'a set of
ignorant enthusiasts, whose preaching is calculated only to perplex the understanding, to corrupt
the morals, to relax the nerves of industry, and dissolve the bands of society.' But they gained
a very strong hold on the Loyalist population; and for a long time they were familiar figures
upon the country roads.

For many years communications both in New Brunswick and in Upper Canada were mainly by water.
The roads between the settlements were little more than forest paths. When Colonel Simcoe went
to Upper Canada he planned to build a road running across the province from Montreal to the
river Thames, to be called Dundas Street. He was recalled, however, before the road was completed;
and the project was allowed to fall through. In 1793 an act was passed by the legislature of
Upper Canada 'to regulate the laying out, amending, and keeping in repair, the public highways
and roads.' This threw on the individual settler the obligation of keeping the road across
his lot in good repair; but the large amount of crown lands and clergy reserves and land held
by speculators throughout the province made this act of little avail. It was not until 1798
that a road was run from the Bay of Quinte to the head of Lake Ontario, by an American surveyor
named Asa Danforth. But even this government road was at times impassable; and there is evidence
that some travellers preferred to follow the shore of the lake.

It will be seen from these notes on social history that the Loyalists had no primrose path.
But after the first grumblings and discontents, poured into the ears of Governor Haldimand
and Governor Parr, they seem to have settled down contentedly to their lot; and their life
appears to have been on the whole happy. Especially in the winter, when they had some leisure,
they seem to have known how to enjoy themselves.

   In the winter season, nothing is more ardently wished
   for, by young persons of both sexes, in Upper Canada,
   than the setting in of frost, accompanied by a fall
   of snow. Then it is, that pleasure commences her reign.
   The sleighs are drawn out. Visits are paid, and
   returned, in all directions. Neither cold, distance,
   or badness of roads prove any impediment. The sleighs
   glide over all obstacles. It would excite surprise in
   a stranger to view the open before the Governor's
   House on a levee morning, filled with these carriages.
   A sleigh would not probably make any great figure in
   Bond street, whose silken sons and daughters would
   probably mistake it for a turnip cart, but in the
   Canadas, it is the means of pleasure, and glowing
   healthful exercise. An overturn is nothing. It
   contributes subject matter for conversation at the
   next house that is visited, when a pleasant raillery
   often arises on the derangement of dress, which the
   ladies have sustained, and the more than usual display
   of graces, which the tumble has occasioned.

