The Fall of the Moghul Empire of Hindustan, by H. G. Keene

THE FALL OF THE MOGHUL EMPIRE OF HINDUSTAN, A NEW EDITION, WITH CORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS.

1887

PREFACE.

Two editions of this book having been absorbed, it has been thought that the time was come
for its reproduction in a form more adapted to the use of students. Opportunity has been taken
to introduce considerable additions and emendations.

The rise and meridian of the Moghul Empire have been related in Elphinstone's " History of
India: the Hindu and Mahometan Period; " and a Special Study of the subject will Also be found
in the " Sketch of the History of Hindustan" published by the present writer in 1885. Neither
of those works, however, undertakes to give a detailed account of the great Anarchy that marked
the conclusion of the eighteenth century, the dark time that came before the dawn of British
power in the land of the Moghul. Nor is there is any other complete English book on the Subject.

The present work is, therefore, to be regarded as a monograph on the condition of the capital
and neighbouring territories, from the murder of Alamgir II. in 1759 to the occupation of Dehli
by Lake in 1803. Some introductory chapters are prefixed, with the view of showing how these
events were prepared; and an account of the campaign of 1760-1 has been added, because it does
not seem to have been hitherto related on a scale proportioned to its importance. That short
but desperate struggle is interesting as the last episode of medi¾val war, when battles could
be decided by the action of mounted men in armour. It is also the sine qua non of British Empire
in India. Had the Mahrattas not been conquered then, it is exceedingly doubtful if the British
power in the Bengal Presidency would ever have extended beyond Benares.

The author would wish to conclude this brief explanation by reproducing the remarks which concluded
the Preface to his second edition.

"There were two dangers," it was there observed; "the first, that of giving too much importance
to the period; the second, that of attempting to illustrate it by stories — such as those of
Clive and Hastings — which had been told by writers with whom competition was out of the question.
Brevity, therefore, is studied; and what may seem baldness will be found to be a conciseness,
on which much pains have been bestowed."

"The narrative," it was added, "is one of confusion and transition; and chiefly interesting
in so far as it throws light on the circumstances which preceded and caused the accession of
the East India Company to paramount power in India." The author has only to add an expression
of his hope that, in conjunction with Mr. S. Owen's book, what he has here written may help
to remove doubts as to the benefits derived by the people of India from the Revolution under
consideration.

Finally, mention should be made of Mr. Elphinstone's posthumous work, "The Rise of British
Power in the East." That work does not, indeed, clash with the present book; for it did not
enter into the scope of the distinguished author to give the native side of the story, or to
study it from the point of view here presented. For the military and political aims and operations
of the early British officers in Madras and Bengal, however, Elphinstone will be found a valuable
guide. His narrative bears to our subject a relation similar to that of the "Roman de Rou"
to the history of the Carling Empire of Northern France.

OXFORD, 1887.

CONTENTS.

PART I.

CHAPTER I

Preliminary Observations on Hindustan and the City of Dehli

CHAPTER II.

Greatness of the Timurides

Causes of Empire's decline

Character of Aurungzeb

Progress of disruption under his descendants

Muhamadan and Hindu enemies

The stage emptied

CHAPTER III.

Muhamad Shah

CHAPTER IV.

Ahmad Shah

Alamgir II.

CHAPTER V,

Afghan invasion

CHAPTER VI.

Overthrow of Mahrattas at Panipat

PART II.

CHAPTER I.

A.D. 1760-67.

1760.          Movements of Shahzada Ali Gohar, after escaping from Dehli

               Shojaa-ud-Daulal

               His Character

               Ramnarayan defeated

               M. Law

1761.          Battle of Gaya

1762.          March towards Hindustan

1763.          Massacre of Patna

1764.          Flight of Kasim and Sumroo

               Battle of Buxar

1705.          Treaty with British

1767.          Establishment at Allahabad

               Legal position

CHAPTER II.

A.D. 1764-71.

1764.          Najib-ud-Daula at Dehli

               Mirza Jawan Bakht Regent

               The Jats

               The Jats attacked by Najib

               Death of Suraj Mal

1765.          Jats attack Jaipur .

1766.          Return of Mahrattas

1767.          Ahmad Abdali defeats Sikhs .

1768.          Mahrattas attack Bhartpur

1770.          Rohillas yield to them

               Death of Najib-ud-Daula

               State of Rohilkand

               Zabita Khan .

1771.          Mahrattas invite Emperor to return to Dehli

CHAPTER III.

A.D. 1771-76

               Agency of Restoration .

               Madhoji Sindhia

               Emperor's return to Dehli . . . .

1772.          Zabita Khan attacked by Imperial force under Mirza Najaf Khan

               Flight of Zabita

               Treaty with Rohillas

               Zabita regains office

               Mahrattas attack Dehli .

1773.          Desperation of Mirza Najaf .

               Mahrattas attack Rohilkand .

               Opposed by British

               Advance of Audh troops

               Restoration of Mirza

               Abdul Ahid Khan .

               Suspicious conduct of Rohillas

               Tribute withheld by H. Rahmat

1774.          Battle of Kattra

1775.          Death of Shojaa-ud-Daula

               Zabita Khan rejoins Jats

               Najaf Kuli Khan

               Successes of Imperial army

1776.          Zabita and the Sikhs

               Death of Mir Kasim

CHAPTER IV.

A.D. 1776-85

               Vigour of Empire under M. Najaf

               Zabita rebels again

1777.          Emperor takes the field .

               And the rebellion is suppressed

               Sumroo's Jaigir

1778.          Abdul Ahid takes the field against the Sikhs

               Unsuccessful campaign

1779.          Sikhs plunder Upper Doab

               Dehli threatened, but relieved

1780.          Mirza Najaf's arrangements

               Popham takes Gwalior

               Death of Sumroo

1781.          Begam becomes a Christian

1782.          Death of Mirza

               Consequent transactions

               Afrasyab Khan becomes Premier

               Mirza Shaffi at Dehli

1783.          Murder of Shaffi

               Action of Warren Hastings

1784.          Flight of Shahzadah Jawan Bakht

               Madhoji Sindhia goes to Agra

               Afrasyab murdered

1785.          Tribute demanded from British, but refused

               Death of Zabita

               Sindhia supreme

               Chalisa Famine

               State of Country

CHAPTER V.

A.D. 1786-88.

1786.          Gholam Kadir succeeds his father Zabita

               Siege of Raghogarh

1787.          British policy

               Measures of Sindhia

               Rajput confederacy

               Battle of Lalsot

               Mohammed Beg's death

               Defection of his nephew Ismail Beg

               Greatness of Sindhia

               Gholam Kadir enters Dehli

               But checked by Begam Sumroo and Najaf Kuli

               Gholam Kadir joins Ismail Beg

1788.          Battle of Chaksana

               Emperor proceeds towards Rajputana

               Shahzada writes to George III.

               Najaf Kuli rebels

               Death of Shahzada

               Siege of Gokalgarh

               Emperor's return to Dehli

               Battles of Fatihpur and Firozabad

               Confederates meet at Dehli

               Sindhia is inactive

               Benoit de Boigne

CHAPTER VI.

A.D. 1788

               Defection of Moghuls and retreat of Hindu Guards

               Confederates obtain possession of palace

               Emperor deposed

               Palace plundered

               Gholam Kadir in the palace

               Emperor blinded

               Approach of Mahrattas

               Apprehensions of the spoiler

               Moharram at Dehli

               Explosion in palace

               Gholam Kadir flies to Meerut

               His probable intentions

               His capture and punishment

               Sindhia's measures

               Future nature of narrative

               Poetical lament of Emperor

PART III.

CHAPTER I.

A.D. 1788 - 94.

               Sindhia as Mayor of palace

               British policy

1789.          Augmentation of Sindhia's Army

1790.          Ismail Beg joins the Rajput rising

               Battle of Patan

               Sindhia at Mathra

               Siege of Ajmir

               Jodhpur Raja

               Battle of Mirta

               Rivals alarmed

               French officers

1792.          Sindhia's progress to Puna

               Holkar advances in his absence

               Ismail Beg taken prisoner

               Battle of Lakhairi

               Sindhia rebuked by Lord Cornwallis

               His great power

               Rise of George Thomas

1793.          He quits Begam's service

               Sindhia at Punah

1794.          His death and character

CHAPTER II.

A.D. 1794 - 1800.

               Daulat Rao Sindhia

               Thomas adopted by Appa Khandi Rao

1795.          Revolution at Sardhana

               Begum delivered by Thomas

               Becomes a wiser woman

               Movements of Afghans

               Battle of Kurdla

1796.          De Boigne retires

1797.          General Perron

               Musalman intrigues

               Afghans checked

               Succession in Audh

1798           War of the Bais

1799.          Afghans and British, and treaty with the Nizam

               Rising of Shimbunath

               Thomas independent

               Revolt of Lakwa Dada

1801.          Holkar defeated at Indor

               Power of Perron

CHAPTER III.

A.D. 1801-3.

               Feuds of Mahrattas

               Perron attacks Thomas

               Thomas falls

1802.          Treaty of Bassein

1803.          Marquis of Wellesley

               Supported from England

               Fear entertained of the French

               Sindhia threatened

               Influence of Perron

               Plans of the French

               The First Consul.

               Wellesley's views

               War declared

               Lake's Force 

               Sindhia's European officers 

               Anti-English feelings, and fall of Perron

               Battle of Dehli

               Lake enters the capital 

               Is received by Emperor

               No treaty made

CHAPTER IV.

CONCLUSION

               Effect of climate upon race

               Early immigrants

               Early French and English

               Empire not overthrown by British

               Perron's administration

               Changes since then

               The Talukdars

               Lake's friendly intentions towards them

               Their power curbed

               No protection for life, property, or traffic

               Uncertain reform without foreign aid

               Concluding remarks

APPENDIX.

THE FALL OF THE MOGHUL EMPIRE OF HINDUSTAN.

PART I.

CHAPTER I.

Preliminary Observations on Hindustan and the City of Dehli.

THE country to which the term Hindustan is strictly and properly applied may be roughly described
as a rhomboid, bounded on the north-west by the rivers Indus and Satlej, on the south-west
by the Indian Ocean, on the south-east by the Narbadda and the Son, and on the north-east by
the Himalaya Mountains and the river Ghagra. In the times of the emperors, it comprised the
provinces of Sirhind (or Lahore), Rajputana, Gujrat, Malwa, Audh (including Rohilkand, strictly
Rohelkhand, the country of the Rohelas, or "Rohillas" of the Histories), Agra, Allahabad, and
Dehli: and the political division was into subahs, or divisions, sarkars or districts; dasturs,
or sub-divisions; and parganahs, or fiscal unions.

The Deccan, Panjab (Punjab), and Kabul, which also formed parts of the Empire in its widest
extension at the end of the seventeenth century, are omitted, as far as possible, from notice,
because they did not at the time of our narration form part of the territories of the Empire
of Hindustan, though included in the territory ruled by the earlier and greater Emperors.

Bengal, Bihar, and Orissa also formed, at one time, an integral portion of the Empire, but
fell away without playing an important part in the history we are considering, excepting for
a very brief period. The division into Provinces will be understood by reference to the map.
Most of these had assumed a practical independence during the first quarter of the eighteenth
century, though acknowledging a weak feudatory subordination to the Crown of Dehli.

The highest point in the plains of Hindustan is probably the plateau on which stands the town
of Ajmir, about 230 miles south of Dehli. It is situated on the eastern slope of the Aravalli
Mountains, a range of primitive granite, of which Abu, the chief peak, is estimated to be near
5,000 feet above the level of the sea; the plateau of Ajmir itself is some 3,000 feet lower.

The country at large is, probably, the upheaved basin of an exhausted sea which once rendered
the highlands of the Deccan an island like a larger Ceylon. The general quality of the soil
is accordingly sandy and light, though not unproductive; yielding, perhaps, on an average about
one thousand lbs. av. of wheat to the acre. The cereals are grown in the winter, which is at
least as cold as in the corresponding parts of Africa. Snow never falls, but thin ice is often
formed during the night. During the spring heavy dews fall, and strong winds set in from the
west. These gradually become heated by the increasing radiation of the earth, as the sun becomes
more vertical and the days longer.

Towards the end of May the monsoon blows up from the Indian Ocean and from the Bay of Bengal,
when a rainfall averaging about twenty inches takes place and lasts during the ensuing quarter.
This usually ceases about the end of September, when the weather is at its most sickly point.
Constant exhalations of malaria take place till the return of the cold weather. The lucky ones left standing, and fled the mole that they coming. Jee
brothers, who were in front of everyone, fell ill, or did not have time flee, and were under
the locomotive, one, Alfredo, died on the spot, burned by all the fire and boiling water machine,
and caught by a wheel in the chest; and the other Morlando, caught between the legs of his brother
and a rock, lying face down head and chest off the machine, but getting from the waist down,
and especially in the right leg, boiling water boiler and heat iron coals and embers facts .--
blunt, slightly injured or burned, were many; but none seriously.

Our grief at seeing the eminent engineer Alfredo died Jee, and his
plight as brother live our surprise when we met, our gratitude to
God that we had delivered, the terror of the people that surround
us, the painful five quarters of an hour that it took Jee Morlando
in getting out from under the machine, are things that would be correct
to describe .....

Morlando Mr. Jee is still alive, but cold as hail
or no hope of salvation.

* * *

The unfortunate died the next night.

Los Corrales (Valle de Buelna), 1858.

MY FIRST TRIP TO TOLEDO

Railroad Castillejo to Toledo just opened, which means in substance the ancient imperial city
that is already at the gates of Madrid .-- De wait is, therefore that, as fast, convenient
and inexpensive travel is today, all lovers of artistic beauty and the Gloria Patri leave
without loss of time to admire their own eyes that museum of wonders.

In the meantime, if you have it, dígnense read the notes I made in my portfolio during the two
days I just went in the Rome of our history, notes that without are
a guide or anything, show all the excitement that can inspire a good
Spanish fond of art, the noble city so often sung by Zorrilla.

* * *

Toledo is a great album architecture, where each century has placed its stone page. See Toledo
is read at the same moment in the history of Spain and the history of architecture.

Most Arabs are rich in monuments Cordoba, Seville and Granada in Merida and Segovia Roman works,
in Gothic kingdoms of León and Castilla la Vieja, but no city like
it holds Toledo everything, nothing like it can hold together great
works of all time and all periods of art.

And is that Toledo is a city ten times historic ten times have risen from the ashes, which has been
corona crown on his forehead, reaching After all to be vested with all the grandeur of our national
history.

Its foundation, lost in the night's epic tale like everything is for a work of Hercules for others
it back to the source of authentic day, the Jewish people.

And just as the religion and paganism is the dispute, see how struggling after all invaders
of Spain by honorable .....

Ah! not all: that while it is true that the northern barbarians respected fifteen centuries ago, is
no less true that the nineteenth-century French burned and destroyed their palaces and temples.

Either
way, Toledo was the beloved city ever. The old Carpetania between their peoples account patriarchal
Rome from its colonies, including their slaves the Alans, among queens the Goths. It seeks refuge
in the nascent Christianity, and the renowned Toledo Councils exalt
his fame in all the towns visited by the Apostolic Men.

Rodrigo settle into it after his corrupt court, and after the Arabs overran ..... But Toledo will not
have died yet. Even the big league will Alfonsos, under the wandering Jews, home of Queen Isabella
and Carlos I of Spain, home, finally, the first dawn of freedom in time of Castilla.

Well, all this greatness, all this power, all this fortune is written on their many monuments.
On more than one tower dismantled, to which formed the foundation ruins of domination Rome, there
are mullioned window was first Arab, then Gothic warhead, then niche
Renaissance and is now decorated with flowers to a balcony that overlooks
the daughter of the sexton.

It deleted see the daffodils and canopies, you notice the trail Stalactitic arc, seeing a rest ye lay
Greco-Roman frieze, and perhaps you find any Churriguera bizarre delusion, a mess and patched,
but all eloquent and revealing past destinations.

The Cathedral, above all, is the funerary urn of Spanish greatness. Every period of civilization
has his name engraved on it, every generation has left the dust of his heroes come across
.-- melancholy pride that museum in all of our artists have carved a column posted a picture
or a saint carved wood, where each has placed the flags conquistador of his army and won trophies
taken to the army, where kings have sought burial and poets and powerful, where a left her jewels,
another your library, this one sword and armor, that the works of
his genius.

It seems the Cathedral, considered this Thus, an ancient matron, a venerable grandmother, to
which everyone has told their sorrows, entrusted their secrets, the legacy his glory, asked
for advice in adversity and because a sentence at the hour of death.

Enrique de Trastamara sleep there, the king fratricidal there saints and archbishops war against
the Moors, there on the same architects who, for many centuries, they built the cathedral,
there D. Álvaro de Luna, the proud enemy of feudalism and D. Suffering Henry III, and D. John I,
and famous queens, and princes and prelates, and ladies beautiful,
who reigned in famous tournaments, there are flags to the Hagrites
caught in a hundred battles, and pearls and diamonds accumulated by
the Jews, and fresh Jordan and Berruguete sculptures, gates and a
hundred authors, all of a merit amazing and a thousand relics, votive
thousand, a thousand treasures authentic historical palaeography, art.

We repeat: the Cathedral is a museum, an archive, a vast library,
where the artist the poet, archaeologist, historian, all who love
the past, will find endless treasures.

For if we believe and as a building, as a work of architecture, like Gothic church, which new
wonders, what richness, what grandeur, what sublimity !.....

There is the whole history of the Gothic style from the Gothic, prior to the invasion of barbarian,
funny and pure until the thirteenth century. There are covers more beautiful than those of Notre
Dame and the very elegant in the cathedrals of Burgos and Seville,
there vaults bold, colorful roses, air canopies, studded with statues
coffers miniature stained glass that gently filters the light of heaven,
and thousands upon thousands of frames and archivolts that entertain
the eye and the imagination by their endless variety.

The original church was founded by St. Eugene, and she boarded the Moors a great mosque. Reconquered
the city, San Fernando did not want at the Cathedral of Toledo had not even traces of the infidels,
and destroyed to the ground, putting on that same place the foundation
stone today.

Two hundred and fifty years it took to build, and even today are still working on details of
ornamentation .....

But I am not able to continue, nor did I have time to sketch, as I would like, other Toledo monuments
.....-- This rapid review has been published in two hours, and compositors are removing me
from their hands that write pages as first intention.

He left them for when you slow down, assuming they ever become pregnant, describe The church and
cloister of San Juan de los Reyes ....., especially the cloister, which seems a stone garden,
half destroyed by a storm .....--¡ Ah, French !..... How not to die of shame, thinking that
destroys those artistic beauties?

I also feel unable to talk at length much of Caesarean Alcazar serves
as crown Wall to Toledo, then rising above the highest peak of the
city.

Suffice it to say that it is a work worthy of Charles V, Alonso de Covarrubias and Juan de Herrera.
The Great Emperor ordered to be built in that eminent place, where he lay in ruins that inhabited
the old fortress .....; Alfonsos large and it is known that, if down or up the monumental staircase,
stood on its high plateau and said: - "Only here I truly believe the Emperor."

In short: a whole volume would not suffice to summarize all there to do in Toledo, since is discovered,
stepped straight into that sort of peninsula or promontory big encircled by the deep Tajo,
and begins to climb the rugged hill, and passed the venerable Puente de Alcántara, and enters the
beautiful and historic Door Hinge, until that is traversed maze of crooked streets Arabic,
and down the opposite side, and becomes to take the field for the San Martín Bridge .-- synagogues,
mosques, minarets serve Christian churches, towers, doors as remarkable as that of Cambron,
which epitomizes Toledo's history, as have her hand in Wamba, the Moors and Charles V, ennobling
more and more with each restoration, ruins of palaces as interesting, respectively, those who
lived D. Pedro the Cruel and D. Enrique de Trastamara; walls of time D. Rodrigo; Bath of the Cava,
the Mozarabic Chapel of the Cathedral, the great arms factory, where
continue forging and tempering swords which earned us many victories
on other days; El Cristo de la Vega of the legend of Zorrilla, the
romantic Zocodover Square, the Inn Blood, a contemporary of Don Quixote,
I do not know how many things have excited me for my stay in Toledo
!.....

I will quote only, in conclusion, my last emotions will call
our eternal city.

It was time to return to Madrid, the world of politics and business .....

The afternoon was stormy ..... Black clouds and thunder threatened to remote to the Toledo a big
storm.

I had decided beforehand that it would be my last visit to the Cathedral, where he had been at least
eight times in the space of two days I wanted to say goodbye .....-- TOLEDO there solemnly.

My
traveling companion and dear friend, the distinguished musician D. Mariano Vázquez me at the
great Basilica, quite alone, sitting in front of the magnificent organ called the Dean, ripping
its deep bosom .-- solemn and pathetic moans played the funeral march
in the death of a Hero, written by Beethowen the day she learned that
Bonaparte had "fallen to the point being crowned Emperor ".-- The
clerk had also been provided to hold the office that was his own,
taking care of the bellows .....

The vaults of the cathedral trembled
before this storm of harmony that launched the powerful instrument.

The lights last week penetrated by flagging pierced rosettes, fantastic giving contours to the
figures painted on the glass .-- Down in the temple, was I just .....

Is the song of glory and death that exuded the body, fell on many
graves on such grandeur faded on much pride humiliated, as a franchise
or as a curse ?..... I do not know!

I lost in the shadow of those cold and lonely chapels, believed that
the dead hero Beethowen the composition was the Spanish honor.

In the distance I seemed to hear the laughter of the modern court of Spain, confused with laughter
of contempt of riffeños, the Mexican and Gibraltar holders. Up I thought I felt slapped-cheek
noise, and new laughter, and creaking bones that were removed indignant under slabs from the graves!

"Foreigners
!.....»-- insult us shouted a voice in the air .....

The court was
silent.

I lifted the front, and wanted to run away ..... But it was dark,
darkness around me .-- Here came my friend and me out of the Cathedral.

A

furious storm was dumping on Toledo ..... But the hour of departure the train and had to leave to escape
from the hail and hurricane, as souls to be carried the devil.

Three hours later I was in Madrid Swiss coffee.

June 1858.

ECLIPSE OF THE SUN 1860

I attest to having seen with my own eyes, yesterday to July 18, two to three in the afternoon,
from the venerable ruins of Sagunto, I mean from the top of Castle Murviedro.

To this end only the day before had left the village and court of Spain in the mail train. Passing
Valencia loved me, as was agreed, some poets of the banks Turia, with an old friend who joins
me and together we arrived at the castle one hour before the announced the schedule for the start
of the celestial tragedy.

In this historic place, where the area began to be fully visible catastrophe, was not constituted
any committee of astronomers, armed with instruments, to to do an autopsy to astro-king after
his death ....., and that is why we determined my friends and I set
up our observatory there poetic tiding of experience in solemn moment
all the emotions and religious drama of innocence or ignorance .....--
We were, then, alone with the tragic chorus, and the tragic chorus
consisted of peasants in the country ..... From those peasants who
rarely rise to the ancient fortress, but always to honor and glory
of Spain!

So I thought I saw the actual people from the village Saguntine up to the citadel. Thought on
the day their ancestors went through those same ramps carved into the rock, and not went down
again, but who died heroically and voluntarily, giving the Carthaginian hero the greatest
show of patriotism in recorded history, or remembered that other day most of our time, the troops
of Napoleon were dashed again and again against this dilapidated
fortress, guarded by a handful of brave, they had left the plow to
go up to defend his life at the expense of the old wall (Murviedro).

In truth, these historical considerations were very appropriate prologue to the epic event that
waited. This was Homeric dimensions, and as the sky, land and sea unfolded before our eyes were
the same twenty-two centuries ago, there were times I lost all consciousness
of time, or they mistook the past with the present, and even with
future, it was the eclipse .....

At my feet I saw the one hand, the
imposing ruins of the Roman Amphitheater, on the other, the village
present, around a green plain populated by carob, olive and mulberry
trees, and further the Mediterranean blue, or soft mountain ranges
delineating, so to speak, a magnificent and bright horizon.

The day was calm and warm. The sun light flooded the loneliness of space, encouraging and enlarging
the vast landscape.

Long, monotonous hum of cicadas and other insects lived in the air flying a dull and sleepy
murmur, which invite to nap. Callahan birds, lulled by the heat, and men too silent, attentive to
deicide that prepared in heaven.

On the left, and precisely where they began to pile up some ashen
clouds, we could see a break in the mountains, they told me gave way
to the Desert Palms .-- There as in other places on the Peninsula,
thousands of human beings, oblivious to the turmoil and narrow interests
of this life, they were like us in anticipation of the celestial phenomenon;
one born of love of science, others of worship to wonder, who's afraid,
who of mere curiosity.

As for myself, I felt at that moment the human race in a way that not had never considered: not as a
privileged species that meets these or those destinations in the world, not as actors in the great
theater of the universe, not as the main characters the long drama we call history, but only as
spectators housed in a small planet, as mere inhabitants of our globe,
as accidents of creation, as witnesses mysterious march of a thousand
worlds.

Science, politics, philosophy, hatred, ambition, love, war, woe, all that constitutes our everyday
life, had lost interest at that time. All men were equal. A power higher, the irresistible force
that governs the orbs, I was thinking about bigger things that society and civilization. What
were, what could be human powers when whole worlds appear as fragile pods lost in the infinite
space, and are browse saw at the mercy of powerful wind that pushes for their mysterious paths?

It
was already announced two time ....., and so long awaited by astronomers.

The eclipse had begun but not yet perceived any alteration in the sunlight.

At about half past two clouds began to fade, while the sea was growing increasingly bleak.

The sunlight was white as the moon, and the shade of black hard bodies,
but vague outlines.

The sky was clear, the clear atmosphere. The sun was at noon, and no But the night is approaching!

Our
faces were getting livid ..... Clarity funeral, which was not like
to the moon, but to the electric light, beautifully lit city and the
ruins Amphitheatre.

The clouds took a gray as ash. The darkening sea continued .....

And none of this seemed the evening !..... It was impressive to see that there, in regions upper
sky was still daylight, while the unfortunate land and atmosphere darkness was rife. Ie the light
of heaven and came to earth!

Moreover, to the naked eye could not tell yet any alteration in the sun's disk. Indeed, most of it was
eclipsed, but the light still perceived limbo, radiated glare enough
to hide our weak eyes to the great shadow that threatened and burial.

We, therefore, that the sun shimmered on the zenith, the sky, or is
the space to which no reached the shadow of the moon, was flooded
with light as before the phenomenon, and that without But the night
fell over the earth, suddenly, rapidly and without gradation or twilight
as if our planet had been very light and could blow off the Maker
suddenly.

In this - (and say everything that happened in less than a second) - in it instantly expires the
last glow, change their appearance all things look sort are two stars near the star dying:
make a terrible wind, cold, are the clouds ennegrécese sea; walking
in the shade at our feet, it seems that unhinges the sky, like when
you move a Shopping in the theater, the sun dies and replace it .....,
never seen a star, a meteor funeral and grand, more beautiful than
anything imagined by man !.....

A cry of terror comes a thousand
breasts.

Simple people that surround us undoubtedly believe that the world ends ..... But, seeing that the
sun has been replaced by that phenomenon as beautiful and amazing, new display of power and wisdom
of the Lord, break forth in a applause, in a live, in a brave, in a frantic and enthusiastic
acclaim .....

This unique and gentle praise the Author of nature, brings tears in
my eyes ..... The show's combination hair stands on end ..... The
box around me, the hour, site, all contribute to horrify, to move
me, to lift my spirit, to reveal the immeasurable greatness of God.


Such were these emperors; great, if not exactly what we should call good, to a degree rare
indeed amongst hereditary rulers.

The fact of this uncommon succession of high qualities in a race born to the purple may be
ascribed to two main considerations. In the first place, the habit of contracting, marriages
with Hindu princesses, which the policy and the latitudinarianism of the emperors established,
was a constant source of fresh blood, whereby the increase of family predisposition was checked.
Few if any races of men are free from some morbid taint: scrofula, phthisis, weak nerves, or
a disordered brain, are all likely to be propagated if a person predisposed to any such ailment
marries a woman of his own stock. From this danger the Moghul princes were long kept free.
Khuram, the second son of Jahangir, who succeeded his father under the title of Shah Jahan,
had a Hindu mother, and two Hindu grandmothers. All his sons, however, were by a Persian consort
— the lady of the Taj.

Secondly, the invariable fratricidal war which followed the demise of the Crown gave rise to
a natural selection (to borrow a term from modern physical science), which eventually confirmed
the strongest in possession of the prize. However humanity may revolt from the scenes of crime
which such a system must perforce entail, yet it cannot be doubted that the qualities necessary
to ensure success in a struggle of giants would certainly both declare and develop themselves
in the person of the victor by the time that struggle was concluded.

It is, however, probable that both these causes aided ultimately in the dissolution of the
monarchy.

The connections which resulted from the earlier emperors' Hindu marriages led, as the Hindus
became disaffected after the intolerant rule of Aurangzeb, to an assertion of partisanship
which gradually swelled into independence; while the wars between the rival sons of each departing
emperor gave more and more occasion for the Hindu chiefs to take sides in arms.

Then it was that each competitor, seeking to detach the greatest number of influential feudatories
from the side of his rivals, and to propitiate such feudatories in his own favour, cast to
each of these the prize that each most valued. And, since this was invariably the uncontrolled
dominion of the territories confided to their charge, it was in this manner that the reckless
disputants partitioned the territories that their forefathers had accumulated with such a vast
expenditure of human happiness and human virtue. For, even from those who had received their
titledeeds at the hands of claimants to the throne ultimately vanquished, the concession could
rarely be wrested by the exhausted conqueror. Or, when it was, there was always at hand a partisan
to be provided for, who took the gift on the same terms as those upon which it had been held
by his predecessor.

Aurangzeb, when he had imprisoned his father and, conquered and slain his brothers, was, on
his accession, A.D. 1658, the most powerful of all the Emperors of Hindustan, and, at the same
time, the ablest administrator that the Empire had ever known. In his reign the house of Timur
attained its zenith. The wild Pathans of Kabul were temporarily tamed; the Shah of Persia sought
his friendship; the ancient Musalman powers of Golconda and Bijapur were subverted, and their
territories rendered subordinate to the sway of the Empire; the hitherto indomitable Rajputs
were subdued and made subject to taxation; and, if the strength of the Mahrattas lay gathered
upon the Western Ghats like a cloud risen from the sea, yet it was not to be anticipated that
a band of such marauders could long resist the might of the great Moghul.

Yet that might and that greatness were reduced to a mere show before his long reign terminated;
and the Moghul Empire resembled — to use a familiar image — one of those Etruscan corpses which,
though crowned and armed, are destined to crumble at the breath of heaven or at the touch of
human hands. And still more did it resemble some splendid palace, whose gilded cupolas and
towering minarets are built of materials collected from every quarter of the world, only to
collapse in undistinguishable ruin when the Ficus religiosa has lodged its destructive roots
in the foundation on which they rest. Thus does this great ruler furnish another instance of
the familiar but everneeded lesson, that countries may be over-governed. Had he been less anxious
to stamp his own image and superscription upon the palaces of princes and the temples of priests;
upon the moneys of every market, and upon every human heart and conscience; he might have governed
with as much success as his free thinking and pleasure-seeking predecessors. But he was the
Louis Quatorze of the East; with less of pomp than his European contemporary, but not less
of the lust of conquest, of centralization, and of religious conformity. Though each monarch
identified the State with himself, yet it may be doubted if either, on his deathbed, knew that
his monarchy was dying also. But so it was that to each succeeded that gradual but complete
cataclysm which seems the inevitable consequence of the system which each pursued.

One point peculiar to the Indian emperor is that the persecuting spirit of his reign was entirely
due to his own character. The jovial and clement Chaghtai Turks, from whom he was descended,
were never bigoted Mohamadans. Indeed it may be fairly doubted whether Akbar and his son Jahangir
were, to any considerable extent, believers in the system of the Arabian prophet. Far different,
however, was the creed of Aurangzeb, and ruthlessly did he seek to force it upon his Hindu
subjects. Thus there were now added to the usual dangers of a large empire the two peculiar
perils of a jealous centralization of power, and a deep-seated disaffection of the vast majority
of the subjects. Nor was this all. There had never been any fixed settlement of the succession;
and not even the sagacity of this politic emperor was superior to the temptation of arbitrarily
transferring the dignity of heir-apparent from one son to another during his long reign. True,
this was no vice confined exclusively to Aurangzeb. His predecessors had done the like; but
then their systems had been otherwise genial and fortunate. His successors, too, were destined
to pursue the same infatuated course; and it was a defeated intrigue of this sort which probably
first brought the puppet emperor of our own time into that fatal contact with the power of
England which sent him to die in a remote and dishonoured exile.

When, therefore, the sceptre had fallen from the dead man's hands, there were numerous evil
influences ready to attend its assumption by any hands that were less experienced and strong.
The prize was no less than the possession of the whole peninsula, estimated to have yielded
a yearly revenue of the nominal value of thirty-four millions of pounds sterling, and guarded
by a veteran army of five hundred thousand men.

The will of the late emperor had left the disposal of his inheritance entirely unsettled. "Whoever
of my fortunate sons shall chance to rule my empire," is the only reference to the subject
that occurs in this brief and extraordinary document.

His eldest surviving son consequently found two competitors in the field, in the persons of
his brothers. These, however, he defeated in succession, and assumed the monarchy under the
title of BAHADUR SHAH. A wise and valiant prince, he did not reign long enough to show how
far he could have succeeded in controlling or retarding the evils above referred to; but his
brief occupation of the monarchy is marked by the appearance of all those powers and dynasties
which afterwards participated, all in its dismemberment, and most in its spoil. Various enemies,
both Hindu and Musalman, appeared, and the Empire of the Chaghtai Turks was sapped and battered
by attempts which, though mostly founded on the most selfish motives, involved a more or less
patriotic feeling. Sikhs, Mahrattas, and Rajputs, all aimed at independence; while the indigenous
Mohamadans, instead of joining the Turks in showing a common front to the common enemy, weakened
the defence irrecoverably by opposition and rivalry.

In the attempt to put down the Sikhs, Bahadur died at Lahor, just five years after the death
of his father. The usual struggle ensued. Three of the princes were defeated and slain in detail;
and the partisans of the eldest son, Mirza Moizudin, conferred upon him the succession (by
the title of JAHANDAR SHAH), after a wholesale slaughter of such of his kindred as fell within
their grasp. After a few months, the aid of the governors of Bihar and Allahabad, Saiyids of
the tribe of Barha, enabled the last remaining claimant to overthrow and murder the incapable
Emperor. The conqueror succeeded his uncle under the title of FAROKHSIAR.

The next step of the Saiyids, men of remarkable courage and ability was to attack the Rajputs;
and to extort from their chief, the Maharajah Ajit Sing, the usual tribute, and the hand of
his daughter for the Emperor, who, like some of his predecessors, was anxious to marry a Hindu
princess. But the levity and irresolution of the Emperor soon led to his being, in his turn,
dethroned and slaughtered. The race was now quite worn out.

A brief interregnum ensued, during which the all-powerful Saiyids sought to administer the
powers of sovereignty behind the screen of any royal scion they could find of the requisite
nonentity. But there was a Nothing still more absolute than any they could find; and after
two of these shadow-kings had passed in about seven months, one after the other, into the grave,
the usurpers were at length constrained to make a choice of a more efficient puppet. This was
the son of Bahadur Shah's youngest son, who had perished in the wars which followed that emperor's
demise. His private name was Sultan Roshan Akhtar ("Prince Fair Star"), but he assumed with
the Imperial dignity the title of MOHAMMAD SHAH, and is memorable as the last Indian emperor
that ever sat upon the peacock throne of Shah Jahan.

The events mentioned in the preceding brief summary, though they do not comprehend the whole
disintegration of the Empire, are plainly indicative of what is to follow. In the final chapters
of the First Part we shall behold somewhat more in detail the rapidly accelerating event. During
the long reign of Mohammad foreign violence will be seen accomplishing what native vice and
native weakness have commenced; and the successors to his dismantled throne will be seen passing
like other decorations in a passive manner from one mayor of the palace to another, or making
fitful efforts to be free, which only rivet their chains and hasten their destruction. One
by one the provinces fall away from this distempered centre. At length we shall find the throne
literally without an occupant, and the curtain will seem to descend while preparations are
being made for the last act of this Imperial tragedy.

CHAPTER III.

A.D. 1719-48

Muhammad Shah — Chin Kulich Khan, his retirement from Dehli — Movements of the Mahrattas —
Invasion of Nadir Shah — Ahmad Khan repulsed by the Moghuls.

GUIDED by his mother, a person of sense and spirit, the young Emperor began his reign by forming
a party of Moghul friends, who were hostile to the Saiyids on every conceivable account. The
former were Sunnis, the latter Shias; and perhaps the animosities of sects are stronger than
those of entirely different creeds. Moreover, the courtiers were proud of a foreign descent;
and, while they despised the ministers as natives of India, they possessed in their mother
tongue — Turkish — a means of communicating with the Emperor (a man of their own race) from
which the ministers were excluded. The Saiyids were soon overthrown, their ruin being equally
desired by Chin Kulich, the head of the Turkish party, and Saadat Ali, the newly-arrived adventurer
from Persia. These noblemen now formed the rival parties of Turan and Iran; and became distinguished,
the one as founder of the principality of Audh, abolished in 1856, the other as that of the
dynasty of Haidarabad, which still subsists. Both, however, were for the time checked by the
ambition and energy of the Mahrattas. Chin Kulich was especially brought to his knees in Bhopal,
where the Mahrattas wrung from him the cession of Malwa, and a promise of tribute to be paid
by the Imperial Government to these rebellious brigands.

This was a galling situation for an ancient nobleman, trained in the traditions of the mighty
Aurangzeb. The old man was now between two fires. If he went on to his own capital, Haidarabad,
he would be exposed to wear out the remainder of his days in the same beating of the air that
had exhausted his master. If he returned to the capital of the Empire, he saw an interminable
prospect of contempt and defeat at the hands of the Captain-General Khan Dauran, the chief
of the courtiers who had been wont to break their jests upon the old-fashioned manners of the
veteran.

Thus straitened, the Nizam, for by that title Chin Kulich was now beginning to be known, took
counsel with Saadat, the Persian, who was still at Dehli. Nadir Shah, the then ruler of Persia,
had been for some time urging on the Court of Dehli remonstrances arising out of boundary quarrels
and similar grievances. The two nobles, who may be described as opposition leaders, are believed
to have in 1738 addressed the Persian monarch in a joint letter which had the result of bringing
him to India, with all the consequences which will be found related in the History of Hindustan
by the present writer, and in the well-known work of Mountstuart Elphinstone.

It would be out of place in this introduction to dwell in detail upon the brief and insincere
defence of the Empire by Saadat 'Ali, in attempting to save whom the Khan Dauran lost his life,
while the Nizam attempted vain negotiations. The Persians, as is well-known, advanced on Dehli,
massacred some 100,000 of the inhabitants, held the survivors to ransom, and ultimately retired
to their own country, with plunder that has been estimated at eighty millions sterling, and
included the famous Peacock Throne.

The Nizam was undoubtedly the gainer by these tragic events. In addition to being Viceroy of
the Deccan, he found himself all-powerful at Dehli, for Saadat 'Ali had died soon after the
Khan Dauran. Death continuing to favour him, his only remaining rival, the Mahratta Peshwa,
Baji Rao, passed away in 1740, on the eve of a projected invasion of Hindustan. In 1745 the
Province of Rohelkhand became independent, as did the Eastern Subahs of Bengal, Bihar, and
Orissa. Leaving his son to represent him at Dehli, the Nizam settled at Haidarabad as an independent
ruler, although he still professed subordination to the Empire, of which he called himself
Vakil-i-Mutlak, or Regent.

Shortly after, a fresh invader from the north appeared in the person of Ahmad Khan Abdali,
leader of the Daurani Afghans, who had obtained possession of the frontier provinces during
the confusion in Persian politics that succeeded the assassination of Nadir. But a new generation
of Moghul nobles was now rising, whose valour formed a short bright Indian summer in the fall
of the Empire; and the invasion was rolled back by the spirit and intelligence of the heir
apparent, the Vazir's son Mir Mannu, his brother-in-law Ghazi-ud-din, and the nephew of the
deceased Governor of Audh, Abul-Mansur Khan, better known to Europeans by his title Safdar
Jang. The decisive action was fought near Sirhind, and began on the 3rd March, 1748. This is
memorable as the last occasion on which Afghans were ever repulsed by people of India until
the latter came to have European leaders. The death of the Vazir took place eight days later.
This Vazir (Kamr-ul-din Khan), who had long been the head of the Turkish party in the State,
was the nominal leader of the expedition, in conjunction with the heir-apparent, though the
chief glory was acquired by his gallant son Mannu, or Moin-ul-din. The Vazir did not live to
share the triumph of his son, who defeated the enemy, and forced him to retire. The Vazir Kamr-ul-din
died on the 11th, just before the retreat of the Afghans. A round shot killed him as he was
praying in his tent; and the news of the death of this old and constant servant, who had been
Mohammad's personal friend through all the pleasures and cares of his momentous reign, proved
too much for the Emperor's exhausted constitution. He was seized by a strong convulsion as
he sate administering justice in his despoiled palace at Dehli, and expired almost immediately,
about the 16th of April, A.D. 1748.

CHAPTER IV.

A.D. 1748-54.

Ahmad Shah — The Rohillas — Ghazi-ud-din the younger — Perplexities of the Emperor — Alamgir
II. placed on the throne.

SELDOM has a reign begun under fairer auspices than did that of Ahmad Shah. The Emperor was
in the flower of his age; his immediate associates were men distinguished for their courage
and skill; the Nizam was a bar to the Mahrattas in the Deccan, and the tide of northern invasion
had ebbed out of sight.

There is, however, a fatal element of uncertainty in all systems of government which depend
for their success merely upon personal qualities. The first sign of this precarious tenure
of greatness was afforded by the death of the aged Nizam Chin Kulich, Viceroy of the Deccan,
which took place immediately after that of the late Emperor.

The eldest son of the old Nizam contended with the nephew of the deceased Saadat — whose name
was Mansur, but who is better known by his title of Safdar Jang — for the Premiership, or office
of Vazir, and his next brother Nasir Jang held the Lieutenancy of the Deccan. The command in
Rajputan, just then much disturbed, devolved at first on a Persian nobleman who had been his
Bakhshi, or Paymaster of the Forces, and also Amir-ul-Umra, or Premier Peer. His disaster and
disgrace were not far off, as will be seen presently. The office of Plenipotentiary was for
the time in abeyance. The Vazirship, which had been held by the deceased Kamr-ul-din was about
the same time conferred upon Safdar Jang, who also succeeded his uncle as Viceroy or Nawab
of Audh. Hence the title, afterwards so famous, of Nawab-Vazir.

Having made these dispositions, the Emperor followed the hereditary bent of his natural disposition,
and left the provinces to fare as best they might, while he enjoyed the pleasures to which
his opportunities invited him. The business of state fell very much into the hands of a eunuch
named Jawid Khan, who had long been the favourite of the Emperor's mother, a Hindu danseuse
named Udham Bai, who is known in history as the Kudsiya Begam. The remains of her villa are
to be seen in a garden still bearing her name, on the Jamna side a little beyond the Kashmir
Gate of New Dehli. For a time these two had all at their command; and the lady at least appears
to have made a beneficent use of her term of prosperity. Meanwhile, the two great dependencies
of the Empire, Rohilkand and the Panjab, become the theatre of bloody contests.

The Rohillas routed the Imperial army commanded by the Vazir in person, and though Safdar Jung
wiped off this stain, it was only by undergoing the still deeper disgrace of encouraging the
Hindu powers to prey upon the growing weakness of the Empire.

Aided by the Mahrattas under Holkar and by the Jats under Suraj Mal, the Vazir defeated the
Rohillas at the fords of the Ganges; and pushed them up into the malarious country at the foot
of the Kumaon mountains, where famine and fever would soon have completed their subjugation,
but for the sudden reappearance in the north-west of their Afghan kindred under Ahmad Khan
the Abdali.

The Mahrattas were allowed to indemnify themselves for these services by seizing on part of
the Rohilla country, and drawing chauth from the rest; consideration of which they promised
their assistance to cope with the invading Afghans; but on arriving at Dehli they learned that
the Emperor, in the Vazir's absence, had surrendered to Ahmad the provinces of Lahor and Multan,
and thus terminated the war.

An expedition was about this time sent to Ajmir, under the command of Saadat Khan, the Amir-ul-Umra,
the noble of the Shiah or "Iranian" party already mentioned as commanding in Rajputan, and
who was also the Imperialist Viceroy of Agra. He wasted his time and strength, however, in
an attack upon the Jats, through whose country the way went. When at last he neared Ajmir he
allowed himself to be entangled in the local intrigues which it was the object of his expedition
to suppress. He returned after about fifteen months of fruitless campaigning, and was dismissed
from his office by the all-powerful Jawid, Ghazi-ud-din succeeded as Amir-ul- Umra.

Almost every section of the History of Ahmad Shah abstracted by Professor Dowson (VIII.) ends
with some sinister allusion to this favourite eunuch and his influence. The Emperor had nothing
to say as to what went on, as his mother and Jawid were the real rulers. The Emperor considered
it to be most suitable to him to spend his time in pleasure; and he made his Zanana extend
a mile. For weeks he would remain without seeing the face of a male creature. There was probably
no sincere friend to raise a warning; and the doom deepened and the hand wrote upon the wall
unheeded. The country was overrun with wickedness and wasted with misery. The disgrace of the
unsuccessful Saadat returning from Ajmir, was enhanced by his vainly attempting to strike a
blow at the Empress and her favourite. They called in the Turkish element against him, and
contrived to alienate his countryman, Safdar Jang, who departed towards his Viceroyship of
Audh; leaving the wretched remains of an Empire to ferment and crumble in its own way.

The cabinet of the Empress was now, in regard to Ghazi-ud-din and the Mahrattas, in the position
of a necromancer who has to furnish his familiars with employment on pain of their destroying
him. But an escape seemed to be afforded them by the projects of Ghazi-ud-din, who agreed to
draw off the dangerous auxiliaries to aid him in wresting the Lieutenancy of the Deccan from
his third brother Salabat Jang who had possessed himself of the administration on the death
of Nasir Jang, the second son and first successor of Chin Kulich, the old Nizam. He was to
be represented at Dehli by a nephew.

Gladly did the Persian party behold their rival thus depart; little dreaming of the dangerous
abilities of the boy he had left behind. This youth, best known by the family affix of Ghazi-ud-din
(2nd), but whose name was Shahabuddin, and who is known in native histories by his official
title of Aamad-ul-Mulk, was son of Firoz Jang, the old Nizam's fourth son. He at once assumed
the head of the army, and may be properly described, henceforth, as "Captain-General." He was
but sixteen when the news of his uncle's sudden death at Aurangabad was brought to Dehli. Safdar
Jang, returning from Lucknow, removed the Emperor's chief favourite, Jawid, by assassination
(28th August, 1752) and doubtless thought himself at length arrived at the goal of his ambition.
But the young Ghazi, secretly instigated by the weak and anxious monarch, renewed against the
Persian the same war of Turan and Iran, of Sunni and Shia, which in the last reign had been
waged between the uncle of the one and the grandfather of the other. The only difference was
that both parties being now fully warned, the mask of friendship that had been maintained during
the old struggle was now completely dropped; and the streets of the metropolis became the scene
of daily fights between the two factions. Many splendid remains of the old cities are believed
to have been destroyed during these struggles. The Jats from Bhurtpore came up under Suraj
Mal, their celebrated leader, and plundered the environs right and left. The Vazir's people,
the Persian partly, breached a bastion of the city wall, and their victory seemed near at hand.
But Mir Mannu, the famous Viceroy of the Punjab — who was Ghazi's near kinsman — sent a body
of veterans to aid the Moghul cause; the account is confused, but this seems to have turned
the tide. The Moghuls, or Turks, for the time won; and Ghazi assumed the command of the army.
The Vazirship was conferred on Intizam-ud-daulah the Khan Khanan (a son of the deceased Kamr-ul-din,
and young Ghazi's cousin), while Safdar Jang falling into open rebellion, called the Jats under
Surajmal to his assistance. The Moghuls were thus led to have recourse to the Mahrattas; and
Holkar was even engaged as a nominal partizan of the Empire, against his co-religionists the
Jats, and his former patron the Viceroy of Audh. The latter, who was always more remarkable
for sagacity than for personal courage, soon retired to his own country, and the hands of the
conqueror Ghazi fell heavily upon the unfortunate Jats.

The Khan Khanan and the Emperor now began to think that things had gone far enough; and the
former, who was acquainted with his kinsman's unscrupulous mind and ruthless passions, persistently
withheld from him a siege-train which was required for the reduction of Bhartpur, the Jat capital.
The Emperor was thus in a situation from which the utmost judgment in the selection of a line
of conduct was necessary for success, indeed for safety. The gallant Mir Mannu, son of his
father's old friend and servant Kamar-uddin, was absent in the Panjab, engaged on the arduous
duty of keeping the Afghans in check. But his brother-in-law, the Khan Khanan, was ready with
alternative projects, of which each was courageous and sensible. To call back Safdar Jung,
and openly acknowledge the cause of the Jats, would probably cost only one campaign, well conceived
and vigorously executed. On the other hand, to support the Captain-General Ghazi honestly and
without reserve, would have secured immediate repose, whilst it crushed a formidable Hindu power.

The irresolute voluptuary before whom these plans were laid could decide manfully upon neither.
He marched from Dehli with the avowed intention of supporting the Captain-General, to whom
he addressed messages of encouragement. He at the same time wrote to Surajmal, to whom he promised
that he would fall upon the rear of the army (his own !), upon the Jats making a sally from
the fortress in which they were besieged.

Safdar Jang not being applied to, remained sullenly aloof: the Emperor's letter to the Jats
fell into the hands of Ghazi-ud-din, the Captain-General, who returned it to him with violent
menaces. The alarmed monarch began to fall back upon his capital, pursued at a distance by
his rebellious general. Holkar meanwhile executed a sudden and independent attack upon the
Imperial camp, which he took and plundered at Sikundrabad, near Bolandshahr. The ladies of
the Emperor's family were robbed of everything, and sent to Dehli in country carts. The Emperor
and his minister lost all heart, and fled precipitately into Dehli, where they had but just
time to take refuge in the palace, when they found themselves rigorously invested.

Knowing the man with whom they had to deal, their last hope was obviously in a spirited resistance,
combined with an earnest appeal to the Audh Viceroy and to the ruler of the Jats. And it is
on record in a trustworthy native history that such was the tenor of the Vazir's advice to
the Emperor. But the latter, perhaps too sensible of the difficulties of this course from the
known hostility of Safdar Jang, and the great influence of Ghazi-ud-din over the Moghul soldiery,
rejected the bold counsel. Upon this the Vazir retired to his own residence, which he fortified,
and the remaining adherents of the Emperor opened the gates and made terms with the Captain-General.
The latter then invested himself with the official robes of the Vazirate (5th June, 1754) and
convened the Moghul Darbar, from which, with his usual address, he contrived to obtain as a
vote of the cabinet what was doubtless the suggestion of his own unprincipled ambition. "This
Emperor," said the assembled nobles, "has shown his unfitness for rule. He is unable to cope
with the Mahrattas: he is false and fickle towards his friends. Let him be deposed, and a worthier
son of Timur raised to the throne." This resolution was immediately acted upon; the unfortunate
monarch was blinded and consigned to the State prison of Salim Garh, adjoining the palace;
and a son of Jahandar Shah, the competitor of Farokhsiar, proclaimed Emperor under the sounding
title of Alamgir II., July, 1754 A.D. The new Emperor (whose title was due to the fact that
his predecessor — the great Aurangzeb — had been the first to bear it) was in the fifty-fourth
year of his age. He was a quiet old devotee, whose only pleasures were reading religious books
and attending divine service. His predecessor was not further molested, and lived on in his
captivity to his death in 1775, from natural causes, at the age of fifty. Ghazi-ud-din was
at the same time acknowledged as Vazir in the room of the Khan Khanan. That officer was murdered
about five years later, according to Beale (Orl. Bl. Dicty in voc.) So also the Siyar-ul-mutikharin.

One name, afterwards to become very famous, is heard of for the first time during these transactions;
and, since the history of the Empire consists now of little more than a series of biographies,
the present seems the proper place to consider the outset of his career. Najib Khan was an
Afghan soldier of fortune, who had attained the hand of the daughter of Dundi Khan, one of
the chieftains of the Rohilkand Pathans. Rewarded by this ruler with the charge of a district,
now Bijnaur, in the north-west corner of Rohilkand, he had joined the cause of Safdar Jang,
when that minister occupied the country; but on the latter's disgrace had borne a part in the
campaigns of Ghazi-ud-din. When the Vazir first conceived the project of attacking the government,
he sent Najib in the command of a Moghul detachment to occupy the country, about Saharanpur,
then known as the Bawani mahal, which had formed the jagir of the Ex-Vazir Khan Khanan. This
territory thus became in its turn separated from the Empire, and continued for two generations
in the family of Najib. Though possessing the unscrupulous nature of his class, he was not
without the virtues that are found in its best specimens. He was active, painstaking, and faithful
to engagements; when he had surmounted his early difficulties he proved a good administrator.
He ruled the dwindled Empire for nine years, and died a peaceful death, leaving his charge
in an improved and strengthened condition, ready for its lawful monarch. He was highly esteemed
by the British in India.— (v. inf 89 )

The dominions of Akbar and Aurangzeb had now indeed fallen into a pitiable state. Although
the whole of the peninsula still nominally owned the sway of the Moghul, no provinces remained
in the occupation of the Government besides part of the upper Doab, and a few districts south
of the Satlaj. Gujarat was overrun by the Mahrattas; Bengal, Bihar, and Orissa were occupied
by the successor of Aliverdi Khan, Audh and Allahabad by Safdar Jang, the central Doab by the
Afghan tribe of Bangash, the province now called Rohilkand by the Rohillas. The Panjab had
been virtually abandoned; the rest of India had been recovered by the Hindus, with the exception
of such portions of the Deccan as still formed the arena for the family wars of the sons of
the old Nizam. Small encroachments continued to be made by the English traders.

CHAPTER V

A.D. 1754-60.

Progress of Ghazi ud-din — Ahmad Khan enters Dehli — Escape of the Prince Ali Gauhar — Murder
of the Emperor — Ahmad the Abdali advances on Dehli — End of Ghazi's career.

No sooner was the revolution accomplished than the young kingmaker took effective measures
to secure his position. He first seized and imprisoned his relation the Khan Khanan, whose
office he had usurped, as above stated. The opportune death of Safdar Jang (17th October, 1754)
removed another danger, while the intrepidity and merciless severity with which (assisted by
Najib Khan) he quelled a military mutiny provoked by his own arbitrary conduct, served at once
as a punishment to the miserable offenders and a warning to all who might be meditating future
attacks.

Of such there were not a few, and those too in high places. The imbecile Emperor became the
willing centre of a cabal bent upon the destruction of the daring young minister; and, though
the precautions of the latter prevented things from going that length, yet the constant plotting
that went on served to neutralize all his efforts at administration, and to increase in his
mind that sense of misanthropic solitude which is probably the starting-point of the greatest
crimes.

As soon as he judged that he could prudently leave the Court, the Minister organized an expedition
to the Panjab, where the gallant Mir Mannu had been lately killed by falling from his horse.
Such had been the respect excited in men's minds towards this excellent public servant, that
the provinces of Lahor and Multan, when ceded to the Afghans in the late reign, had been ultimately
left in his charge by the new rulers. Ahmad the Abdali even carried on this policy after the
Mir's death, and confirmed the Government in the person of his infant son. The actual administrators
during the minority were to be the widow of Mannu and a statesman of great local experience,
whose name was Adina Beg. This man was a Hindu by origin, a, self-made man, bold and intelligent.

It was upon this opportunity that the Vazir resolved to strike. Hastily raising, such a force
as the poor remnant of the imperial treasury could furnish, he marched on Lahor, taking with
him the heir apparent, Mirza Ali Gauhar. Seizing the town by a coup de main, he possessed himself
of the Lady Regent and her daughter, and returned to Dehli, asserting that he had extorted
a treaty from the Afghan monarch, and appointed Adina Beg sole Commissioner of the provinces.

However this may have been, the Court was not satisfied; and the less so that the success of
the Minister only served to render him more violent and cruel than ever. Nor is it to be supposed
that Ahmad the Abdali would overlook, for any period longer than his own convenience might
require, any unauthorized interference with arrangements made by himself for territory that
he might justly regard as his own. Accordingly the Afghan chief soon lent a ready ear to the
representations of the Emperor's party, and swiftly presented himself at the head of an army
within twenty miles of Dehli. Accompanied by Najib Khan, (who was in secret correspondence
with the invader,) the Minister marched out to give battle; and so complete was the isolation
into which his conduct had thrown him, that he learned for the first time what was the true
state of affairs when he saw the chief part of the army follow Najib into the ranks of the
enemy, where they were received as expected guests.

In this strait the Minister's personal qualities saved him. Having in the meantime made Mannu's
daughter his wife, he had the address to obtain the intercession of his mother-in-law; and
not only obtained the pardon of the invader, but in no long time so completely ingratiated
himself with that simple soldier as to be in higher power than even before the invasion.

Ahmad Khan now took upon himself the functions of government, and deputed the Minister to collect
tribute in the Doab, while Sardar Jahan Khan, one of his principal lieutenants, proceeded to
levy contributions from the Jats, and Ahmad himself undertook the spoliation of the capital.

From the first expedition Ghazi returned with considerable booty. The attack upon the Jats
was not so successful; throwing themselves into the numerous strongholds with which their country
was dotted, they defied the Afghan armies and cut off their foraging parties in sudden sallies.
Agra too made an obstinate defence under a Moghul governor; but the invaders indemnified themselves
both in blood and plunder at the expense of the unfortunate inhabitants of the neighbouring
city of Mathra, whom they surprised at a religious festival, and massacred without distinction
of age or sex.

As for the citizens of Dehli, their sufferings were grievous, even compared with those inflicted
twenty years before by the Persians of Nadir Shah, in proportion as the conquerors were less
civilized, and the means of satisfying them less plentiful. All conceivable forms of misery
prevailed during the two months which followed the entry of the Abdali, 11th September, 1757,
exactly one hundred years before the last capture of the same city by the avenging force of
the British Government during the Great Mutiny.

Having concluded these operations, the invader retired into cantonments at Anupshahar, on the
Ganges, and there proceeded to parcel out the Empire among such of the Indian chiefs as he
delighted to honour. He then appointed Najib to the office of Amir-ul-umra, an office which
involved the personal charge of the Palace and its inmates; and departed to his own country,
from which he had lately received some unsatisfactory intelligence. The Emperor endeavoured
to engage his influence to bring about a marriage which he desired to contract with a daughter
of the penultimate Emperor, Muhammad Shah: but the Abdali, on his attention being drawn to
the young lady, resolved upon espousing her himself. He at the same time married his son Timur
Shah to the daughter of the heir apparent, and, having left that son in charge of the Panjab,
retired with the bulk of his army to Kandahar.

Relieved for the present from his anxieties, the Minister gave sway to that morbid cruelty
which detracted from the general sagacity of his character. He protected himself against his
numerous enemies by subsidizing a vast body-guard of Mahratta mercenaries, to pay whom he was
led to the most merciless exactions from the immediate subjects of the Empire. He easily expelled
Najib (who since his elevation must be distinguished by his honorific name of Najib ud daula,
"Hero of the State"): he destroyed or kept in close confinement the nobles who favoured the
Emperor, and even sought to lay hands upon the heir apparent, Ali Gohar.

This prince was now in his seven-and-thirtieth year, and exhibited all those generous qualities
which we find in the men of his race as long as they are not enervated by the voluptuous repose
of the Palace. He had been for some time residing in a kind of open arrest in the house of
Ali Mardan Khan, a fortified building on the banks of the river. Here he learned that the Minister
contemplated transferring him to the close captivity of Salim Garh, the state prison which
stood within the precincts of the Palace. Upon this he consulted with his companions, Rajah
Ramnath and a Musalman gentleman, Saiyid Ali, who with four private troopers agreed to join
in the hazardous enterprise of forcing their way through the bands which by this time invested
the premises. Early the following morning they descended to the courtyard and mounted their
horses in silence.

There was no time to spare. Already the bolder of the assailants had climbed upon the neighbouring
roofs, from which they began to fire upon the little garrison, while their main forces guarded
the gateway. But it so happened that there was a breach in the wall upon the river side, at
the rear of the premises. By this the Prince and his friends galloped out, and without a moment's
hesitation plunged their horses into the broad Jamna. One alone, Saiyid Ali, stayed behind,
and single-handed held the pursuers at bay until the prince had made good his escape. The loyal
follower paid for his loyalty with his life. The fugitives found their way to Sikandra, which
was the centre of Najib's new fief; and the Prince, after staying some time under the protection
of the Amir-ul-Umra, ultimately reached Lucknow, where, after a vain attempt to procure the
co-operation of the new Viceroy in an attack upon the British, he was eventually obliged to
seek the protection of that alien power.

Ahmad the Abdali being informed of these things by letters from Dehli, prepared a fresh incursion;
the rather that Adina Beg, with the help of the Mahrattas had at the same time chased his son,
Timur Shah, from Lahor; while with another force they had expelled Najib from his new territory,
and forced him to seek safety in his forts in the Bawani Mahal. The new Viceroy of Audh raised
the Rohillas and his own immediate followers in the Abdali's name; the Mahrattas were driven
out of Rohilkand; and the Afghans, crossing the Jamna in Najib's territory to the north of
Dehli, arrived once more at Anupshahar about September, 1759, whence they were enabled to hold
uninterrupted communication with Audh.

The ruthless Ghazi was now almost at the end of his resources. He therefore resolved to play
his last card, and either win all by the terror of his monstrous crime, or lose all, and retire
from the game.

The harmless Emperor, amongst his numerous foibles, cherished the pardonable weakness of a
respect for the religious mendicants, who form one of the chronic plagues of Asiatic society.
Taking advantage of this, a Kashmirian in the interest of the Minister took occasion to mention
to Alamgir that a hermit of peculiar sanctity had recently taken up his abode in the ruined
fort of Firozabad, some two miles south of the city, and (in those days) upon the right bank
of the Jamna, which river has now receded to a considerable distance. The helpless devotee
resolved to consult with this holy man, and repaired to the ruins in his palanquin. Arrived
at the door of the room, which was in the N.E. corner of the palace of Firoz Shah, he was relieved
of his arms by the Kashmirian, who admitted him, and closed the entrance. A cry for aid being
presently heard was gallantly responded to by Mirza Babar, the emperor's son-in-law, who attacked
and wounded the sentry, but was overpowered and sent to Salim Garh in the Emperor's litter.
The latter meanwhile was seized by a savage Uzbek, named Balabash, who had been stationed within,
and who sawed off the defenceless monarch's head with a knife. Then stripping off the rich
robe he cast the headless trunk out of the window, where it lay for some hours upon the sands
until the Kashmirian ordered its removal. The date of this tragic event is between the 10th
and 30th of November, 1759 (the latter being the day given by Dowson, vol. viii. p. 243). The
late Minister, Intizam-ud-Daula, had been murdered by order of his successor three days earlier.
A grandson of Kam Bakhsh (the unfortunate son of Aurangzeb) was then taken out of the Salim
Garh and proclaimed Emperor by the sonorous title of "Shah Jahan II." But he is not recognised
on the list of emperors, and his reign — such as it was — lasted but a moment. Ghazi - (or
Shahab) ud-din attempted to reproduce the policy of the Sayyids by governing behind this puppet;
but the son of the murdered emperor proclaimed himself in Bihar (v. inf.), and Ahmad the Abdali
moved against Ghazi, as we shall see in the next chapter. Discretion was the only part of valour
left, and the young and unscrupulous politician fled to Bhartpur, where he found a temporary
asylum with Suraj Mal.

As this restless criminal here closes his public life, it may be once for all mentioned that
he reluctantly and slowly retired to Farukhabad, where he remained till Shall Alam came there
in 1771 (inf. p. 98); that being driven from thence at the Restoration he once more became
a wanderer, and spent the next twenty years of his life in disguise and total obscurity; till
being accidentally discovered by the British police at Surat, about 1791, he was, by the Governor-General's
orders, allowed to depart with a small sum of money to Mecca, the refuge of many a Mohamadan
malcontent. Returning thence he visited Kabul, where he joined one of the Dehli princes in
an attempted invasion of India. The prince went mad at Multan, and Ghazi, leaving him there,
went on to Bandelkhand, where he received a grant of land on which he chiefly passed the remainder
of his days. He died in 1800, and was buried at Pakpatan in the Panjab (v. Journal of the As.
Soc. of Bengal, No. CCXXVI. 1879, pp. 129, ff.)

The vengeance of the Abdali, therefore, fell upon the unoffending inhabitants of the capital
— once more they were scourged with fire and sword. Leaving a garrison in the palace, the Abdali
then quitted the almost depopulated city, and fell back on his old quarters at Anupshahar,
where he entered into negotiations with the Rohillas, and with the Nawab of Audh, of which
the result was a general combination of the Musalmans of Hindustan with a view of striking
a decisive blow in defence of Islam. But these events will form the subject of a separate chapter.

CHAPTER VI.

The Campaign of Panipat.

THE Mahratta confederacy was in 1759 irresistible from the borders of Berar to the banks of
the Ganges. On one side they were checked by the Nizam and Haidar, on the other by Shujaa-ud-daula,
the young ruler of Audh. Between these limits they were practically paramount. To the westward
a third Mohamadan power, the newly-formed Daurani empire, was no doubt a standing menace; but
it is very possible that, with Ahmad Shah, as with the other Moslem chiefs, arrangements of
a pacific nature might have been made. All turned upon the character and conduct of one man.
That man was Sadasheo Rao, the cousin and minister of the Mahratta leader, the Peshwa, into
whose hands had fallen the sway of Mahratta power. For their titular head, the descendant of
Sivaji the original founder, was a puppet, almost a prisoner, such as we, not many years ago,
considered the Mikado of Japan.

The state of the country is thus described by a contemporary historian, quoted by Tod: — "The
people of Hindustan at this period thought only of personal safety and gratification. Misery
was disregarded by those who escaped it; and man, centred solely in self, felt not for his
kind. This selfishness, destructive of public, as of private, virtue, became universal in Hindustan
after the invasion of Nadir Shah; nor have the people become more virtuous since, and consequently
are neither happy nor more independent."

Ahmad Khan (known as "the Abdali"), whom we are now to recognise as Ahmad Shah, the Daurani
emperor, returned to Hindustan (as stated in the last chapter) late in the summer, and marched
to Dehli, when he heard of the murder of Alamgir II. The execrable Shahabuddin (or Ghazi-ud-din
the younger) fled at his approach, taking refuge with the Jats. Mahratta troops, who had occupied
some places of strength in the Panjab, were defeated and driven in. The capital was again occupied
and plundered, after which the Shah retired to the territory of his ally Najib, and summoned
to his standard the chiefs of the Rohillas. On the other hand the Mahrattas, inviting to their
aid the leaders of the Rajputs and Jats, moved up from the South. They possessed themselves
of the capital in December 1759.

The main force of the Mahrattas that left the Deccan consisted of 20,000 chosen horse, under
the immediate command of the minister, Sadasheo, whom for convenience we may in future call
by his title of "the Bhao." He also took with him a powerful disciplined corps of 10,000 men,
infantry and artillery, under a Mohamadan soldier of fortune, named Ibrahim Khan. This general
had learned French discipline as commandant de la qarde to Bussy, and bore the title, or nickname,
of "gardi," a souvenir of his professional origin.

The Bhao's progress was joined by Mahratta forces under Holkar, Sindhia, the Gaikwar, Gobind
Pant, and others. Many of the Rajput States contributed, and Suraj Mal brought a contingent
of 20,000 hardy Jats. Hinduism was uniting for a grand effort; Islam was rallied into cohesion
by the necessity of resistance. Each party was earnestly longing for the alliance of the Shias
under Shujaa, Viceroy of Audh, whose antecedents led men on both sides to look upon them as
neutral.

The Bhao had much prestige. Hitherto always victorious, his personal reputation inspired great
respect. His camp, enriched with the plunder of Hindustan, was on a scale of unwonted splendour.
"The lofty and spacious tents," says Grant-Duff, "lined with silks and broadcloths, were surmounted
by large gilded ornaments, conspicuous at a distance..... Vast numbers of elephants, flags
of all descriptions, the finest horses, magnificently caparisoned .... seemed to be collected
from every quarter .... it was an imitation of the more becoming and tasteful array of the
Moghuls in the zenith of their glory." Nor was this the only innovation. Hitherto the Mahrattas
had been light horsemen, each man carrying his food, forage, bedding, head and heel ropes,
as part of his accoutrements; marching fifty miles after a defeat, and then halting in complete
readiness to "fight another day." Now, for the first time, they were to be supported by a regular
park of artillery, and a regular force of drilled infantry. But all these seeming advantages
only precipitated and rendered more complete and terrible their ultimate overthrow.

Holkar and Suraj Mal, true to the instincts of their old predatory experience, urged upon the
Bhao, that regular warfare was not the game that they knew. They counselled, therefore, that
the families and tents, and all heavy equipments, should be left in some strong place of safety,
such as the almost impregnable forts of Jhansi and Gwalior, while their clouds of horse harassed
the enemy and wasted the country before and round him. But the Bhao rejected these prudent
counsels with contempt. He had seen the effect of discipline and guns in Southern war; and,
not without a shrewd foresight of what was afterwards to be accomplished by a man then in his
train, resolved to try the effect of scientific soldiership, as he understood it. The determination
proved his ruin; not because the instrument he chose was not the best, but because it was not
complete, and because he did not know how to handle it. When Madhoji Sindhia, after a lapse
of twenty years, mastered all Asiatic opposition by the employment of the same instrument,
he had a European general, the Count de Boigne, who was one of the great captains of his age;
and he allowed him to use his own strategy and tactics. Then, the regular battalions and batteries,
becoming the nucleus of the army, were moved with resolution and aggressive purpose, while
the cavalry only acted for purposes of escort, reconnoissance, and pursuit. In the fatal campaign
before us, we shall find the disciplined troops doing all that could fairly be expected of
them under Asiatic leaders, but failing for want of numbers, and of generalship.

On arriving at Dehli, the Bhao surrounded the citadel in which was situated the palace of the
emperors. It was tenanted by a weak Musalman force, which had been hastily thrown in under
the command of a nephew of Shah Wali Khan, the Daurani Vazir. After a brief bombardment, this
garrison capitulated, and the Bhao took possession and plundered the last remaining effects
of the emperors, including the silver ceiling of the divan khas, which was thrown into the
melting-pot and furnished seventeen lakhs of rupees ( £170,000).

Ahmad, in the meantime, was cantoned at Anupshahr, on the frontier of the Rohilla country,
where he was compelled to remain while his negotiations with Shujaa were pending. So came on
the summer of 1760, and the rainy season was at hand, during which, in an unbridged country,
military operations could not be carried on. All the more needful that the time of enforced
leisure should be given to preparation. Najib, the head of the Rohillas, was very urgent with
the Shah that Shujaa should be persuaded to take part against the Mahrattas. He pointed out
that, such as the Moghul empire might be, Shujaa was its Vazir. As Ahmad Shah had hitherto
been foiled by the late Nawab Safdar Jang, it was for his majesty to judge how useful might
be the friendship of a potentate whose predecessor's hostility had been so formidable. "But,"
added the prudent Rohilla, "it must be remembered that the recollection of the past will make
the Vazir timorous and suspicious. The negotiation will be as delicate as important. It should
not be entrusted to ordinary agency, or to the impersonal channel of epistolary correspondence."

The Shah approved of these reasonings, and it was resolved that Najib himself should visit
the Vazir, and lay before him the cause which he so well understood, and in which his own interest
was so deep. The envoy proceeded towards Audh, and found the Vazir encamped upon the Ganges
at Mahdi Ghat. He lost no time in opening the matter; and, with the good sense that always
characterized him, Najib touched at once the potent spring of self. Shia or Sunni, all Moslems
were alike the object of Mahratta enmity. He, Najib, knew full well what to expect, should
the Hindu league prevail. But would the Vazir fare better? "Though, after all, the will of
God will be done, it behoves us not the less to help destiny to be beneficent by our own best
endeavours. Think carefully, consult Her Highness, your mother: I am not fond of trouble, and
should not have come all this distance to see your Excellency were I not deeply interested."
Such, as we learn from an adherent of Shujaa's, was the substance of the advice given him by
the Rohilla chieftain.

The nature of these negotiations is not left to conjecture. The narrative of what occurred
is supplied by Kasi Raj Pandit, a Hindu writer in the service of the Nawab Vazir, and an eye-witness
of the whole campaign. He was present in both camps, having been employed in the negotiations
which took place between the Mahrattas and Mohamadans; and his account of the battle (of which
a translation appeared in the Asiatic Researches for 1791, reprinted in London in 1799) is
at once the most authentic that has come down to our times, and the best description of war
ever recorded by a Hindu.

Shujaa-ud-daulah, after anxious deliberation, resolved to adopt the advice of his Rohilla visitor.
And, having so resolved, he adhered honestly to his resolution. He sent his family to Lucknow,
and accompanied Najib to Anupshahr, where he was warmly received by the Daurani Shah, and his
minister Shah Wali Khan.

Shortly after, the united forces of the Moslems moved down to Shahdara, the hunting-ground
of the emperors, near Dehli, from which, indeed, it was only separated by the river Jamna.
But, the monsoon having set in, the encounter of the hostile armies was for the present impossible.
The interval was occupied in negotiation. The Bhao first attempted the virtue of Shujaa, whom
he tempted with large offers to desert the Sunni cause. Shujaa amused him with messages in
which our Pandit acted as go-between; but all was conducted with the knowledge of Najib, who
was fully consulted by the Nawab Vazir throughout. The Shah's minister, also, was aware of
the transaction, and apparently disposed to grant terms to the Hindus. Advantage was taken
of the opportunity, and of the old alliance between Shujaa and the Jats, to shake the confidence
of Suraj Mal, and persuade him to abandon the league, which he very willingly did when his
advice was so haughtily rejected. It was the opinion of our Pandit, that a partition of the
country might even now have been effected had either party been earnest in desiring peace.
He did not evidently know what were the Bhao's real feelings, but probably judged him by the
rest of his conduct, which was that of a bold, ambitious statesman. From what he saw in the
other camp, he may well have concluded that Najib had some far-seeing scheme on foot, which
kept him from sincerely forwarding the proposed treaty. Certainly that astute Rohilla was ultimately
the greatest gainer from the anxieties and sufferings of the campaign. But the first act of
hostility came from the Bhao, who moved up stream to turn the invader's flank.

About eighty miles north of Dehli, on the meadowlands lying between the Western Jamna Canal
and the river (from whose right bank it is about two miles distant), stands the small town
of Kunjpura. In the invasion of Nadir Shah, it had been occupied by a force of Persian sharpshooters,
who had inflicted much loss on the Moghul army from its cover. Induced, perhaps, by the remembrance
of those days, Ahmad had made the mistake of placing in it a garrison of his own people, from
which he was now separated by the broad stream of the Jamna, brimming with autumnal floods.
Here the Bhao struck his first blow, taking the whole Afghan garrison prisoners after an obstinate
defence, and giving up the place to plunder, while the main Afghan army sat idle on the other side.

At length arrived the Dasahra, the anniversary of the attack of Lanka by the demigod Ram, a
proverbial and almost sacred day of omen for the commencement of Hindu military expeditions.
Ahmad adopted the auspices of his enemy and reviewed his troops the day before the festival.
The state of his forces is positively given by the Pandit, as consisting of 28,000 Afghans,
powerful men, mounted on hardy Turkoman horses, forty pieces of cannon, besides light guns
mounted on camels; with some 28,000 horse, 38,000 foot, and about forty guns, under the Hindustani
Musalmans. The Mahrattas had more cavalry, fewer foot, and an artillery of 200 guns; in addition
to which they were aided, if aid it could be called in regular warfare, by clouds of predatory
horsemen, making up their whole force to over 200,000, mostly, as it turned out, food for the
sabre and the gun.

On the 17th of October, 1760, the Afghan host and its allies broke up from Shahdara; and between
the 23rd and 25th effected a crossing at Baghpat, a small town about twenty-four miles up the
river. The position of the hostile armies was thus reversed; that of the northern invaders
being nearer Dehli, with the whole of Hindustan at their backs, while the Southern defenders
of their country were in the attitude of men marching down from the north-west with nothing
behind them but the dry and war-wasted plains of Sirhind. In the afternoon of the 26th, Ahmad's
advanced guard reached Sambalka, about half-way between Sonpat and Panipat, where they encountered
the vanguard of the Mahrattas. A sharp conflict ensued, in which the Afghans lost a thousand
men, killed and wounded, but drove back the Mahrattas on their main body, which kept on retreating
slowly for several days, contesting every inch of the ground until they reached Panipat. Here
the camp was finally pitched in and about the town, and the position was at once covered by
digging a trench sixty feet wide and twelve deep, with a rampart on which the guns were mounted.
The Shah took up ground four miles to the south, protecting his position by abattis of felled
timber, according to his usual practice, but pitching in front a small unprotected tent from
which to make his own observations.

The small reverse of the Mahrattas at Sambalka was soon followed by others, and hopes of a
pacific solution became more and more faint. Gobind Pant Bundela, foraging near Meerut with
10,000 light cavalry, was surprised and slain by Atai Khan at the head of a similar party of
Afghans. The terror caused by this affair paralysed the Bhao's commissariat, while it greatly
facilitated the foraging of the Shah. Shortly after, a party of 2,000 Mahratta horsemen, each
carrying a keg of specie from Dehli, fell upon the Afghan pickets, which they mistook for their
own in the dark of night. On their answering in their own language to the sentry's challenge,
they were surrounded and cut up by the enemy, and something like £200,000 in silver was lost
to the Bhao. Ibrahim and his disciplined mercenaries now became very clamorous for their arrears
of pay, on which Holkar proposed that the cavalry should make an immediate attack without them.
The Bhao ironically acquiesced, and turned the tables upon Holkar, who probably meant nothing
less than to lead so hare-brained a movement.

During the next two months constant skirmishes and duels took place between parties and individual
champions upon either side. In one of these Najib lost 3,000 of his Rohillas, and was very
near perishing himself; and the chiefs of the Indian Musalmans became at last very urgent with
the Shah to put an end to their suspense by bringing on a decisive action. But the Shah, with
the patience of a great leader, as steadily repressed their ardour, knowing very well that
(to use the words of a modern leader on a similar occasion) the enemy were all the while "stewing
in their own-gravy." For this is one of the sure marks of a conqueror, that he makes of his
own troubles a measure of his antagonist's misfortunes; so that they become a ground, not of
losing heart, but of gaining courage.

Meanwhile the vigilance of his patrol, for which service he had 5,000 of his best cavalry employed
through the long winter nights, created almost a blockade of the Mahrattas. On one occasion
20,000 of their camp-followers, who had gone to collect provisions, were massacred in a wood
near the camps by this vigilant force.

The Bhao's spirit sank under these repeated blows and warnings, and he sent to the Nawab Vazir,
Shujaa-ud-daulah, to offer to accept any conditions that might still be obtainable. All the
other chiefs were willing, and the Shah referred them to the Rohillas. But Najib proved implacable.
The Pandit went to the Rohilla leader, and urged on him every possible consideration that might
persuade him to agree. But his clear good sense perceived the nature of the crisis. "I would
do much," he said, "to gratify, the Nawab and show my respect for his Excellency. But oaths
are not chains; they are only words, things that will never bind the enemy when once he has
escaped from the dangers which compel him to undertake them. By one effort we can get this
thorn out of our sides."

Proceeding to the Shah's tent he obtained instant admission, though it was now midnight. Here
he repeated his arguments; adding that whatever his Majesty's decision might be was personally
immaterial to himself. "For I," he concluded, "am but a soldier of fortune, and can make terms
for myself with either party." The blunt counsel pleased the Shah. "You are right, Najib,"
said Ahmad, "and the Nawab is misled by the impulses of youth. I disbelieve in the Mahratta
penitence, and I am not going to throw you over whom I have all along regarded as the manager
of this affair. Though in my position I must hear every one, yet I promise never to act against
your advice."

While these things were passing in the Moslem camp, the Mahrattas, having exhausted their last
resource by the plunder of the town of Panipat, sent all their chiefs on the same evening to
meet in the great durbar-tent. It was now the 6th of January, and we may fancy the shivering,
starving Southerners crouched on the ground and discussing their griefs by the wild torchlight.
They represented that they had not tasted food for two days, and were ready to die fighting,
but not to die of hunger. Pan was distributed, and all swore to go out an hour before daybreak
and drive away the invaders or perish in the attempt.

As a supreme effort, the Bhao, whose outward bearing at durbar had been gallant and dignified,
had despatched a short note to our Pandit, who gives the exact text. "The cup is full to the
brim, and cannot hold another drop. If anything can be done, do it. If not, let me know plainly
and at once; for afterwards there will be no time for writing, or for speech." The Pandit was
with Shujaa, by the time this note arrived — the hour was 3 A.M. — and he handed it to his
master, who began to examine the messenger. While he was so doing, his spies ran in with the
intelligence that the Mahrattas had left their lines. Shujaa, at once hastened to the Shah's tent.

Ahmad had lain down to rest, but his horse was held ready saddled at the entry. He rose from
his couch and asked, "What news?" The Nawab told him what he had heard. The Shah immediately
mounted and sent for the Pandit. While the latter was corroborating the tidings brought by
his master, Ahmad, sitting on his horse, was smoking a Persian pipe and peering into the darkness.
All at once the Mahratta cannon opened fire, on which the Shah, handing his pipe to an orderly,
said calmly to the Nawab, "Your follower's news was very true I see." Then summoning his prime
minister, Shah Wali, and Shah Pasand the chief of his staff, he made his dispositions for a
general engagement when the light of day came.

Yes, the news was true. Soon after the despatch of the Bhao's note, the Mahratta troops broke
their fast with the last remaining grain in camp, and prepared for a mortal combat; coming
forth from their lines with turbans dishevelled and turmeric-smeared faces, like devotees of
death. They marched in an oblique line, with their left in front, preceded by their guns, small
and great. The Bhao, with the Peshwa's son and the household troops, was in the centre. The
left wing consisted of the gardis under Ibrahim Khan; Holkar and Sindhia were on the extreme right.

On the other side the Afghans formed a somewhat similar line, their left being formed by Najib's
Rohillas, and their right by two brigades of Persian troops. Their left centre was led by the
two vazirs, Shujaa-ud-daulah and Shah Wali. The right centre consisted of Rohillas, under the
well-known Hafiz Rahmat and other chiefs of the Indian Pathans. Day broke, but the Afghan artillery
for the most part kept silence, while that of the enemy, losing range in its constant advance,
threw away its ammunition over the heads of the enemy and dropped its shot a mile to their
rear. Shah Pasand Khan covered the left wing with a choice body of mailed Afghan horsemen,
and in this order the army moved forward, leaving the Shah at his usual post in the little
tent, which was now in rear of the line, from whence he could watch and direct the battle.

On the other side no great precautions seem to have been taken, except indeed by the gardis
and their vigilant leader, who advanced in silence and without firing a shot, with two battalions
of infantry bent back to their left flank, to cover their advance from the attack of the Persian
cavalry forming the extreme right of the enemy's line. The valiant veteran soon showed the
worth of French discipline, and another division such as his would have probably gained the
day. Well mounted and armed, and carrying in his own hand the colours of his own personal command,
he led his men against the Rohilkhand columns with fixed bayonets, and to so much effect that
nearly 8,000 were put hors de combat. For three hours the gardis remained in unchallenged possession
of that part of the field. Shujaa-ud-daulah, with his small but compact force, remained stationary,
neither fighting nor flying, and the Mahrattas forebore to attack him. The corps between this
and the Pathans was that of the Daurani Vazir, and it suffered severely from the shock of an
attack delivered upon them by the Bhao himself at the head of the household troops. The Pandit,
being sent through the dust to inform Shujaa of what was going on, found Shah Wali vainly trying
to rally the courage of his followers, of whom many were in full retreat. "Whither would you
run, friends," cried the Vazir, "your country is far from here."

Meanwhile, on the left of the Mohamadan line, the prudent Najib had masked his advance by a
series of breastworks, under cover of which he had gradually approached the hostile force.
"I have the highest stake to-day," he said, "and cannot afford to make any mistakes." The part
of the enemy's force immediately opposed to him was commanded by the then head of the Sindhia
house, who was Najib's personal enemy. Till noon Najib remained on the defensive, keeping off
all close attacks upon his earthworks by continuous discharges of rockets. But so far the fortune
of the day was evidently inclined towards the Mahrattas. The Mohamadans' left still held their
own under the two Vazirs and Najib; but the centre was cut in two, and the right was almost
destroyed. Victory seemed to await the Mahrattas.

Of the circumstances which turned the tide and gave the crisis to the Moslems, but one account
necessarily exists. Hitherto we have had the guidance of Grant-Duff for the Mahratta side of
the affair, but now the whole movement was to be from the other side, and we cannot do better
than trust the Pandit. Dow, the only other contemporary author of importance — if we except
Gholam Hosain, who wrote at a very remote place — is most irremediably inaccurate and vague
about all these transactions. The Pandit, then, informs us that, during those earlier hours
of the conflict, the Shah had watched the fortunes of the battle from his tent, guarded by
the still unbroken forces on his left. But now, hearing that his right was reeling and his
centre was defeated, he felt that the moment was come for a final effort. In front of him the
Hindu cries of Har! Har! Jai Mahadeo! were maintaining an equal and dreadful concert with those
of Allah! Allah! Din! Din! from his own side. The battle wavered to and fro like that of Flodden
as described by Scott. The Shah saw the critical moment in the very act of passing. He therefore
sent 500 of his own body-guard with orders to arise all able-bodied men out of camp, and send
them to the front at any cost. 1,500 more he sent to encounter those who were flying, and slay
without pity any who would not return to the fight. These, with 4,000 of his reserve troops,
went to support the broken ranks of the Rohilla Pathans on the right. The remainder of the
reserve, 10,000 strong, were sent to the aid of Shah Wali, still labouring unequally against
the Bhao in the centre of the field. The Shah's orders were clear. These mailed warriors were
to charge with the Vazir in close order, and at full gallop. As often as they charged the enemy
in front, the chief of the staff and Najib were directed to fall upon either flank. These orders
were immediately carried out.

The forward movement of the Moslems began at 1 P.M. The fight was close and obstinate, men
fighting with swords, spears, axes, and even with daggers. Between 2 and 3 P.M. the Peshwa's
son was wounded, and, having fallen from his horse, was placed upon an elephant. The last thing
seen of the Bhao was his dismounting from another elephant, and getting on his Arab charger.
Soon after the young chief was slain. The next moment Holkar and the Gaikwar left the field.
In that instant resistance ceased, and the Mahrattas all at once became helpless victims of
butchery. Thousands were cut down; other thousands were drowned in escaping, or were slaughtered
by the country people whom they had so long pillaged. The Shah and his principal commanders
then retired to camp, leaving the pursuit to be completed by subordinate officers. Forty thousand
prisoners are said to have been slain. Among the prisoners was Ibrahim, the valiant and skilful
leader of the gardis. Though severely wounded, he was taken care of in Shujaa's tents, where
his wounds received surgical attention. Shujaa also endeavoured to extend protection to the
head of the house of Sindhia. A subordinate member of the clan, the afterwards celebrated Madhoji
— who was to become in his turn master of the whole country — fled from the field; and the
late Colonel Skinner used to describe how this chief — in whose service he at one time was
— would relate the mental agonies he endured on his light Deccanee mare from the lobbing paces
and roaring breath of a big Northern horse, on which he was pursued for many miles by an Afghan,
greedy of blood and booty.

Jankoji, the then head of the family, was killed next day, a victim to the enmity of Najib,
whose policy included relentlessness. Ibrahim Gardi was taken from Shujaa by a mixture of force
and fraud. He was put into the charge of the Afghan Vazir, and died in that charge a week after.
A headless body, supposed to be that of the Bhao, was found some twenty or thirty miles off.
The body, with that of the Peshwa's son, received the usual honours of Hindu cremation at the
prayer of the Nawab Shujaa. Several pretenders to the name of this Oriental Sebastian afterwards
appeared from time to time; the last was in captivity in 1782, when Warren Hastings procured
his liberation.

After these things the allies moved to Dehli; but the Daurani troops became mutinous and quarrelsome;
and they parted on ill terms. Shujaa marched back to Mahdi Ghat, whence he had come six months
before, with the titular appointment of Vazir of the Empire. The Shah, having written to the
fugitive Shah Alam, to salute him as emperor, got what money he could out of the exhausted
treasury and departed to his own country. Najib Khan remained at Dehli under the title of Najib-ud-daulah,
with a son of the absent emperor as ostensible regent. Having made these dispositions, Ahmad
the Abdali returned to his own country, and only once again interposed actively in the affairs
of the Indian peninsula.

Such was the famous Campaign of Panipat, the first disaster, on a great scale, of the power
of the Mahratta confederacy, and the besom which swept the land of Hindustan for the advent
of the British.

It appears that, at this period, the Shahzada had applied to Colonel Clive for an Asylum in
Calcutta, while the Colonel was at the same time in receipt of a letter from the minister at
Dehli — the unscrupulous Ghazi-ud-din — calling on him to arrest the prince as a rebel and
forward him to Court in custody. Clive contented himself by sending him a small present in
money. About the same time, however, Clive wrote to Lord Chatham (then Prime Minister, and
Mr. Pitt), recommending the issue of orders sanctioning his demanding the Viceroyship of the
Eastern Subahs on behalf of the King of England; an application which he guaranteed the Emperor's
granting on being assured of the punctual payment of fifty lakhs a year, the estimated fifth
of the revenues. "This," he says, "has of late been very ill-paid, owing to the distractions
in the heart of the Moghul Empire, which have prevented the Court from attending to their concerns
in those distant provinces." Although nothing came of these proceedings, they are here noted
as the presage of future events.

PART II.

CHAPTER I.

The English — Shujaa-ud-daulah — Shahzada enters Bihar; his character — Ramnarayan defeated
— M. Law — Battle of Gaya — March towards Hindustan — Massacre of Patna — Flight of Kasim and
Sumro — Battle of Buxar — Treaty with British — Text of Treaty — Establishment at Allahabad
— Emperor's establishment — Authorities cited — Broome's Bengal Army — Legal position.

THE events related in the foregoing introductory chapters had led to a complete obscuration
of the Timuride family and power. Whether or no that dynasty was to resume its sway once more
depended entirely on the turn that events were to take at this crisis; and chiefly on what
might happen in the eastern provinces of Bihar and Bengal, where a new power was rapidly making
itself felt. To that quarter, therefore, general attention was henceforth drawn; and the new
power — the English — began to be, by common consent, treated as arbiter of the future. The
Nawab of Audh was also an important element in the problem, as it then appeared; and the return
of the ruler of Kabul to the plains where he had so lately struck a blow that seemed decisive,
was a matter of almost daily expectation.

1759. — When in 1759 the heir to what was left of the empire of Hindostan had gallantly cut
his way through the myrmidons sent against him by the ruthless Minister, he crossed the Jamna
and took refuge with Najib-ud-daulah, the Afghan, who was then at Saharanpur in the Fifty-Two
Parganas. But finding that noble unable to afford him material support, and still fearing the
machinations of his enemy, he gradually retired to Lucknow, intending perhaps to wait there
until the return of the Abdali leader might afford him an opportunity of turning upon the Mohamadan
and Hindu rebels.

The present viceroy of Audh was Shujaa-ud-daulah, the son of the famous Safdar Jang, whom he
equalled in ability, and far exceeded in soldierly qualities. On his first succession to his
father's now almost independent fief he was young, and content with the unbounded indulgence
of those bodily faculties with which he was largely endowed. He is described as extremely handsome,
and above the average stature; with an acute mind, somewhat too volatile; and more prone by
nature to the exercises of the field than to the deliberations of the cabinet. But neither
was the son of Safdar Jang likely to be brought up wholly without lessons in that base and
tortuous selfishness which, in the East even more than elsewhere, usually passes for statecraft;
nor were those lessons likely to be read in ears unprepared to understand them. Shujaa's conduct
in the late Rohilla war had been far from frank; and he was particularly unwilling to throw
himself irredeemably into the cause of a ruined sovereign's fugitive heir. Foiled in his application
to the Viceroy of Audh, the Shahzada (Prince) then turned to a member of the same family who
held the Fort and District of Allahabad, and was named Mohammad Kuli Khan. To this officer
he exhibited an imperial patent in his own name for the lieutenancy of Bahar, Bengal, and Orissa,
which were then the theatre of wars between the British traders of Calcutta and the family
of the usurping Viceroy of those Subahs, Aliverdi Khan. The Prince proposed to Mohammad Kuli
that they should raise the Imperial standard and reduce both competitors to their proper level.
The governor, a man of ambition and spirit, was warmly encouraged to this scheme by his relation,
the Viceroy of Audh (for reasons of his own, which we shall speedily discover, Shujaa highly
approved of the arrangement); and a powerful official, named Kamgar Khan, promised assistance
in Bihar. Thus supported, the Prince crossed the frontier stream (Karamnassa) in November,
1759, just at the time that his unfortunate father lost his life in the manner related above.
(Part I. chapter v.)

1760. — In the distracted state of the country it was more than a month before the news of
this tragedy arrived in camp, which was then pitched at a village called Kanauti, in Bihar.
The Prince immediately assumed the succession, and, as a high aim leads to high shooting, his
title was to be nothing short of "sovereign of the known world," or SHAH ALAM. He is recorded
to have ordered that his reign should be reckoned from the day of his father's "martyrdom";
and there are firmans of his patent-office still forthcoming in confirmation of the record.
He was at once recognised as emperor by all parties; and, for his part, he wisely confirmed
Shujaa-ud-daulah as Vazir; while he intrusted the command of the army in Hindustan, in the
room of the assassin Ghazi, to Najib-ud-daulah, the Abdali's nominee.

Having made these arrangements he proceeded to collect revenue and establish himself in Bihar.
He was at this time a tall, portly man, forty years old, or thereabout, with the constitutional
character of his race, and some peculiarities of his own. Like his ancestors, he was brave,
patient, dignified, and merciful; but all contemporary accounts support the view suggested
by his whole history, and debit him with defects which more than balanced these great virtues.
His courage was rather of the nature of fortitude than of that enterprising boldness which
was absolutely necessary in his situation. His clemency did great harm when it led him to forgive
and ignore all that was done to him, and to lend his ear and his hand to any person of stronger
will who was nearest to him at the moment. His patience was of a kind which ere long degenerated
into a simple compromise with fortune, in which he surrendered lofty hopes for the future in
exchange for immediate gratifications of sense. In a word, writers unacquainted with English
history have combined to produce a picture which bears a strong likeness, both in features
and position, to that of Charles the Second of Britain, after the death of his father.

The Eastern Subahs were at this time held by Clive's nominee, Mir Jafar Khan, known in English
histories as Meer Jaffier, and the Deputy in Bihar was a Hindu man of business, named Raja
Ramnarayan. This official, having sent to Murshidabad and Calcutta for assistance, attempted
to resist the proceedings of his sovereign; but the Imperial army defeated him with considerable
loss, and the Hindu official, wounded in body and alarmed in mind, retired into the shelter
of Patna, which the Moghuls did not, at that time, think fit to attack.

Meantime, the army of the Nawab having been joined by a small British contingent, marched to
meet the Emperor, who was worsted in an engagement that occurred on the 15th of February, 1760.
On this the Emperor adopted the bold plan of a flank march, by which he should cut between
the Bengal troops and their capital, Murshidabad, and possess himself of that town in the absence
of its defenders. But before he could reach Murshidabad, he was again overtaken and repulsed
by the activity of the English (7th April), and, being by this time joined by a small body
of French under a distinguished officer, he resolved to remain in Bihar and set about the siege
of Patna.

These French were a party of about one hundred officers and men who had refused to join in
the capitulation of Chandarnagar three years before, and had since been wandering about the
country persecuted by their relentless victor Clive. Their leader was the Chevalier Law, a
relation of the celebrated speculator of the Regency; and he now hastened to lay at the feet
of the Royal adventurer the skill and enterprise of his followers and himself. His ambition
was high and bold, perhaps more so than his previous display of abilities might well warrant.
But he soon saw enough of the weakness of the Emperor, of the treachery and low motives of
the Moghul nobles, to contract the hopes his self-confidence had fostered. To the historian
Gholam Hossain Khan he said: —

"As far as I can see, there is nothing that you could call government between Patna and Dehli.
If men in the position of Shujaa-ud-daulah would loyally join me, I could not only beat off
the English, but would undertake the administration of the Empire."

The very first step in this ambitious programme was never to be taken. Whilst the Emperor with
his new adherents — (and a hundred Frenchmen under even such a leader as Law were as strong
as a reinforcement of many thousand native troops under a faithless Moghul)—whilst these strangely
matched associates were beleaguering Patna, Captain Knox, at the head of a small body of infantry,
of which only 200 men were European, ran across the 300 miles between Murshidabad and Patna
in the space of thirteen days, and fell upon the Imperial army, whom he utterly routed and
drove southward upon Gaya. The Imperial army was now commanded by Kamgar Khan; for Mohammad
Kuli had returned to Allahabad, and been murdered by his unscrupulous cousin Shujaa, who seized
upon the province and fort. The Emperor, as is evident from his retreating southward, still
hoped to raise the country in his favour, and his hopes were so far justified that he was joined
by another Moghul officer, named Khadim Hossain. Thus reinforced, he again advanced on Patna
opposed by Knox, who in his turn had been joined by a Hindu Raja named Shatab Rai. Another
defeat was the result, and the baffled sovereign at length evacuated the country, and fled
northward, pursued by the whole united forces of the British and the Bengal Nawab. The son
of the latter, however, being killed in a thunderstorm in July, the allied armies retired to
cantonments at Patna, and the pertinacious Imperialists once more posted themselves between
that place and the capital, at their old station of Gaya.

1761. — Early next year, therefore, the Anglo-Bengali troops once more took the field, and
encountering the Imperialists at Suan, near the city of Bihar, gave them a fresh overthrow,
in which Law was taken prisoner, fighting to the last, and refusing to surrender his sword,
which he was accordingly permitted to retain.

Next morning the British commander paid his respects to the Emperor, who was now quite weary
of the hopeless struggle he had been maintaining for nearly two years, and who willingly departed
towards Hindustan. He had by this time heard of the battle of Panipat, and of the plans formed
by the Abdali for the restoration of the empire; and there is reason to believe that, but for
the jealousy of Mir Kasim, whom a late revolution (brought about by the English) had placed
in the room of Mir Jafar, the Emperor would have been at once reinstated at Dehli under British
protection. Before he went he created Mir Kasim Subahdar; and the fiscal administration also
vested in him, the English having so determined. The Emperor was to have an annual tribute
of £240,000.

1762. — As affairs turned out there was much to be done and suffered by the British before
they had another opportunity of interfering in the affairs of Hindustan; and a strange series
of vicissitudes impended upon the Emperor before he was to meet them in the palace of his fathers.
On his way to the northwest he fell into the hands of the ambitious Nawab Vazir of Audh, who
had received the Abdali's orders to render the Emperor all assistance, and who carried out
the letter of these instructions by retaining him for some two years in an honourable confinement,
surrounded by the empty signs of sovereignty, sometimes at Benares, sometimes at Allahabad,
and sometimes at Lucknow.

1763. — In the meanwhile the unscrupulous heroes who were founding the British Government of
India had thought proper to quarrel with their new instrument Mir Kasim, whom they had so lately
raised to the Masnad of Bengal. This change in their councils had been caused by an insubordinate
letter addressed to the Court of Directors by Clive's party, which had led to their dismissal
from employ. The opposition then raised to power consisted of all the more corrupt members
of the service; and the immediate cause of their rupture with Mir Kasim was about the monopoly
they desired to have of the local trade for their own private advantage. They were represented
at that Nawab's Court by Mr. Ellis, the most violent of their body; and the consequence of
his proceedings was, in no long time, seen in the murder of the Resident and all his followers,
in October, 1763. The scene of this atrocity (which remained without a parallel for nearly
a century) was at Patna, which was then threatened and soon after stormed by the British; and
the actual instrument was a Franco-German, Walter Reinhardt by name, of whom, as we are to
hear much more hereafter, it is as well here to take note.

This European executioner of Asiatic barbarity is generally believed to have been a native
of Treves, in the Duchy of Luxemburg, who came to India as a sailor in the French navy. From
this service he is said to have deserted to the British, and joined the first European battalion
raised in Bengal. Thence deserting he once more entered the French service; was sent with a
party who vainly attempted to relieve Chandarnagar, and was one of the small party who followed
Law when that officer took command of those, who refused to share in the surrender of the place
to the British. After the capture of his ill-starred chief, Reinhardt (whom we shall in future
designate by his Indian sobriquet of " Sumroo," or Sombre) took service under Gregory, or Gurjin
Khan, Mir Kasim's Armenian General.

Broome, however, adopts a somewhat different version. According to this usually careful and
accurate historian, Reinhardt was a Salzburg man who originally came to India in the British
service, and deserted to the French at Madras, whence he was sent by Lally to strengthen the
garrison of the Bengal settlement. The details are not very material: Sumroo had certainly
learned war both in English and French schools.

After the massacre of the British, Kasim and his bloodhound escaped from Patna (which the British
stormed and took on the 6th of November), and found a temporary asylum in the dominions of
Shojaa-ud-daulah. That nobleman solemnly engaged to support his former antagonist, and sent
him for the present against some enemies of his own in Bundelkand, himself marching to Benares
with his Imperial captive, as related in the preceding page.

1764. — In February, 1764, the avenging columns of the British appeared upon the frontier,
but the Sepoys broke into mutiny, which lasted some time, and was with difficulty and but imperfectly
quelled by Colonel Carnac. Profiting by the delay and confusion thus caused, the allies crossed
into Bihar, and made a furious, though ultimately unsuccessful attack upon the British lines
under the walls of Patna on the 3rd of May. Shujaa-ud-daulah, the Nawab of Audh, temporarily
retiring, the Emperor resumed negotiations with the British commander; but before these could
be concluded, the latter was superseded by Major (afterwards Sir Hector) Monro. This officer's
arrival changed the face of affairs. Blowing from guns twenty-four of the most discontented
of the sepoys, the Major led the now submissive army westward to Buxar (Baksar), near the confluence
of the Karamnassa with the Ganges, where the two Nawabs (for Kasim and the Audh Viceroy had
now united their forces) encountered him to be totally routed on the 23rd October, 1764.

The Emperor, who had taken no part in the action, came into the camp on the evening of the
following day. By the negotiations which ultimately ensued, the British at last obtained a
legal position as administrators of the three Subahs, with the further grant of the Benares
and Ghazipur sarkars as fiefs of the Empire. The remainder of the Subah of Allahabad was secured
to the Emperor with a pecuniary stipend which raised his income to the nominal amount of a
million a year of our money.

But the execution of these measures required considerable delay, and some further exercise
of that pertinacious vigour which peculiarly distinguished the British in the eighteenth century.

Shujaa-ud-daulah fled first to Faizabad in his own territories; but, hearing that Allahabad
had fallen, and that the English were marching on Lucknow, he had recourse to the Pathans of
Rohilkand, whose hospitality he afterwards repaid with characteristic ingratitude. Not only
did the chiefs of the Rohillas harbour the Nawab Vazir's family at Bareilly, but they also
lent him the aid of 3,000 of their troops. Further supported by the restless Mahrattas of Malhar
Rao Holkar, a chief who always maintained relations with the Musulmans, Shujaa returned to
the conflict.

1765. — It may be easily imagined that what he failed to do with the aid of Mir Kasim and his
own territory, he did not effect with his present friends as an exile; and Kasim having fled,
and Sumroo having entered the service of the Jats of Bhartpur, the Vazir consented to negotiate
with the English; the latter, under strong pressure from Clive, who had lately returned to
India, showing themselves perfectly placable, now that it had become impossible for them to
insist upon the terms, so distasteful to an Eastern chief, which required the surrender of
his infamous guests. General Carnac, who had resumed the command, gave the Nawab and his allies
a final defeat near Cawnpore, and drove the Mahrattas across the Jamna. The treaty confirming
the terms broached after the battle of Buxar was now concluded, and Audh, together with part
of the Doab, made over to the Nawab Vazir Shujaa-ud-daulah, who, being thus reinstated as a
feudatory of the British Diwans, returned to his own country, leaving Shah 'Alam at Allahabad
as a British pensioner.

The terms accorded to the Emperor will be seen from the counterpart issued by him, part of
which is subjoined:—

" + + + Whereas, in consideration of the attachment and services of the high and mighty, the
noblest of nobles, the chief of illustrious warriors, our faithful servants and loyal well-wishers,
worthy of royal favour the English Company, we have granted to them the Diwani of the Soobahs
of Bengal, Bahar, and Orissa, from the beginning of the spring harvest of the Bengal year 1171,
as a free gift and fief (Al tumgha), without the association of any other person, and with
an exemption from the payment of the tribute of the Diwan which used to be paid to this court;
it is therefore requisite that the said Company engage to be security for the sum of twenty-six
lakhs of rupees a year for our revenue (which sum has been imposed upon the Nawab), and regularly
remit the same.

"Given on the 8th Safar, in the sixth year of our reign."

The Nawab was to continue Subahdar, the Company was to be his colleague for purposes of civil
and fiscal administration, they were to support the Nawab's (Nizamat) expenses, and to pay
the tribute (Nazarana) in his name.

The Emperor's establishment during the next few years is thus described by a British officer
who enjoyed his intimacy: — "He keeps the poor resemblance of a Court at Allahabad, where a
few ruined omrahs, in hopes of better days to their prince, having expended their fortunes
in his service, still exist, the ragged pensioners of his poverty, and burden his gratitude
with their presence. The districts in the king's possession are valued at thirty lakhs, which
is one-half more than they are able to bear. Instead of gaining by this bad policy, that prince,
unfortunate in many respects, has the mortification to see his poor subjects oppressed by those
who farm the revenue, while he himself is obliged to compound with the farmers for half the
stipulated sum. This, with the treaty payment from the revenues of Bengal, is all Shah Alum
possesses to support the dignity of the Imperial house of Timor. [Dow. ii. 356, A.D. 1767.]

The following further particulars respecting Shah 'Alam's Court at this period are furnished
by Gholam Hossain, and should be noted here as relating to personages of some of whom we shall
hear more anon.

Mirza Najaf Khan, the Imperial General, was a Persian noble of high, even of royal, extraction,
and destined to play a conspicuous part in the events related in a large portion of the remainder
of this history. It will suffice, for the present, to state that, having been a close follower
of Mohammad Kuli, he joined the British after that Chief's murder (Vide Sup. p. 68) and was
by them recommended to the Emperor for employment. He received a stipend of one lakh a year,
and was nominated Governor of Kora, where he occupied himself in the suppression of banditti,
and in the establishment of the Imperial authority. Under the modest state of steward of the
household, Manir-ud-daulah was the Emperor's most trusted councillor and medium of communication
with the English. Raja Ram Nath, whom we saw accompanying the prince in his escape from Dehli,
continued about him; but the chief favourite was an illiterate ruffian called by the title
Hissam-ud-daulah, who stooped to any baseness whereby he could please the self-indulgent monarch
by pandering to his lowest pursuits. The duties of the office of Vazir were delegated by Shujaa
to his son Saadat Ali, who afterwards succeeded him as Nawab of Audh.

Fallen as the Emperor truly was, and sincerely as we may sympathize with his desire to raise
the fortunes of his life, it might have been well for him to have remained content with the
humble but guaranteed position of a protected Titular, rather than listen to the interested
advice of those who ministered, for their own purposes, to his natural discontent.

In this chapter I have been partly referring to Mill. Not only is that indefatigable historian
on his strongest ground when describing battles and negotiations of the British from civil
and military despatches recorded at the India House, but in treating of the movements of the
native powers he has had access to a translation of the very best native work upon the subject
— the Siar-ul-mutakharin — which was written by Ghulam Hossain Khan, a Musalman gentleman of
Patna, himself an eye-witness of many of the scenes described. His account of the capture of
Law, for example, given at length in a foot-note to Mill's short account of the action of Gaya
after which the affair occurred, is full of truthfulness and local colour.

Since, however, the events were already amply detailed, and the best authorities exhausted
in a standard work accessible to most English readers; and since, moreover, they did not occur
in Hindustan, and only indirectly pertained to the history of that country, I have not thought
it necessary to relate them more minutely than was required to elucidate the circumstances
which led to the Emperor Shah Alam becoming, for the first time, a pensioner on British bounty,
or a dependent on British policy.

Those who require a complete account of the military part of the affair will find it admirably
given in Broome's Bengal Army, a work of which it is to be regretted that the first volume
alone has hitherto been made public. Of the value of this book it would be difficult to speak
too highly. Coming from the pen of an accomplished professional man, it sets forth, in a manner
no civilian could hope to rival, the early exploits of that army of which the author was a
member. It may be well to note, in concluding this chapter, what appears to have been at this
time the legal relation of the British settlers in Bengal towards the Government of the Empire.
In 1678 the Company's Agents had obtained a patent conferring upon them the power of trading
in Bengal. In 1696 they purchased from the Nawab the land surrounding their factory, and proceeded
to protect it by rude fortifications. A number of natives soon began to settle here under the
protection of the British; and when the Nawab, on this account, was desirous of sending a judicial
officer to reside among them, the factors staved off the measure by means of a donation in
money. The grant of land and permission of a formal kind for the fortifications followed in
1716 on Mr. Hamilton's cure of the Emperor Farokhsiar. During all this period tribute continued
to be paid (nominally at least) to the Emperor; but in 1759, by espousing, as stated in the
beginning of this chapter, the cause of Mir Jafar, the British committed acts of open rebellion
against the Sovereign. By the treaty of Benares, however, they returned to their nominal allegiance,
and became once more subjects, tenants and even subordinate officials of the Great Moghul (
Vide Judgment of Lord Brougham in the case of the Mayor of Lyons v. East India Company). Elphinstone
(Rise of Brit. Power, 438ÄÄ) finds this "treaty difficult to explain." But the fact is that
all the contemporaneous powers concerned looked upon the Empire as the legitimate source of
authority; and not only then but for many years after. The British had no legal status until
they received the Emperor's grant; and to think of the arrangement as "a treaty" may be a source
of misapprehension.

CHAPTER II.

A.D. 1765-71.

Najib-ud-daulah and Jawan Bakht — The Jats — Bhartpur State — Suraj Mal — Najib attacks Jats
— Negotiations — Death of Suraj Mal — Jats attack Jaipur — Return of the Mahrattas — They attack
Bhartpur — Rohillas yield — Death of Najib — State of Rohilkand — Zabita Khan — Mahrattas invite
Emperor to return to Dehli.

AT the conclusion of Part I. we saw that the Abdali ruler of Kabul had returned to his own
land, soon after the battle of Panipat, in 1761, having recognized the legitimate claims of
the exiled heir to the throne (1764), and placed that prince's eldest son, Mirza Jawan Bakht,
in the nominal charge of affairs, under the protection of Najib-ud-daulah, the Rohilla (Indian
Afghan). A better choice could not have been made in either case. The young regent was prudent
and virtuous, as was usual with the men of his august house during their earlier years, and
the premier noble was a man of rare intelligence and integrity. Being on good terms with his
old patrons, Dundi Khan Rohilla, and the Nawab of Audh, Shujaa-ud-daulah, and maintaining a
constant understanding with Malhar Rao Holkar, whom we have seen deserting the cause of his
countrymen, and thus exempted from their general ruin at Panipat, Najib-ud-daulah swayed the
affairs of the dwindled empire with deserved credit and success. The Mahratta collectors were
expelled from the districts of the Doab, while Agra admitted a Jat garrison; nor did the discomfited
freebooters of the southern confederacy make any farther appearance in Hindustan for eight
years, if we except the share borne by Malhar Rao, acting on his own account in the disastrous
campaign against the British in 1765.

The area on which these exertions were made was at first but small, and the lands directly
swayed by Najib-ud-daulah were bounded, within 100 miles south of the capital, by the possessions
of the Jats, who, however, were at the time friendly.

Of the rise of this singular people few authentic records appear to exist. It is, however,
probable that they represent a later wave of that race, whether true Sudras, or a later wave
of immigrants from Central Asia, which is found farther south as Mahratta; and perhaps they
had, in remote times, a Scythian origin like the earlier and nobler Rajputs. They affect Rajput
ways, although the Rajputs would disdain their kinship; and they give to their chiefs the Rajput
title of "Thakur," a name common to the Deity and to great earthly lords, and now often used
to still lower persons. So much has this practice indeed extended, that some tribes use the
term generically, and speak of themselves as of the "Thakur" race. These, however, are chiefly
pure Rajputs. It is stated, by an excellent authority, that even now the Jats "can scarcely
be called pure Hindus, for they have many observances, both domestic and religious, not consonant
with Hindu precepts. There is a disposition also to reject the fables of the Puranic Mythology,
and to acknowledge the unity of the Godhead." (Elliot's Glossary, in voce "Jat.") Wherever
they are found, they are stout yeomen; able to cultivate their fields, or to protect them,
and with strong administrative habits of a somewhat republican cast. Within half a century,
they have four times tried conclusions with the might of Britain. The Jats of Bhartpur fought
Lord Lake with success, and Lord Combermere with credit; and their "Sikh" brethren in the Panjab
shook the whole fabric of British India on the Satlaj, in 1845, and three years later on the
field of Chillianwala. The Sikh kingdom has been broken up, but the Jat principality of Bhartpur
still exists, though with contracted limits, and in a state of complete dependence on the British
Government. There is also a thriving little principality — that of Dholpur — between Agra and
Gwalior, under a descendant of the Jat Rana of Gohad, so often met with in the history of the
times we are now reviewing (v. inf. p. 128.) It is interesting to note further, that some ethnologists
have regarded this fine people as of kin to the ancient Get¾, and to the Goths of Europe, by
whom not only Jutland, but parts of the south-east of England and Spain were overrun, and to
some extent peopled. It is, therefore, possible that the yeomen of Kent and Hampshire have
blood relations in the natives of Bhartpur and the Panjab.

The area of the Bhartpur State is at present 2,000 square miles, and consists of a basin some
700 feet above sea level, crossed by a belt of red sandstone rocks. It is hot and dry; but
in the skilful hands that till it, not unfertile; and the population has been estimated at
near three-quarters of a million.

At the time at which our history has arrived, the territory swayed by the chiefs of the Jats
was much more extensive, and had undergone the fate of many another military republic, by falling
into the hands of the most prudent and daring of a number of competent leaders. It has already
been shown (in Part I.) how Suraj Mal, as Raja of the Bhartpur Jats, joined the Mahrattas in
their resistance to the great Musalman combination of 1760. Had his prudent counsels been followed,
it is possible that this resistance would have been more successful, and the whole history
of Hindustan far otherwise than what it has since been. But the haughty leader of the Hindus,
Sheodasheo Rao Bhao, regarded Suraj Mal as a petty landed chief not accustomed to affairs on
a grand scale, and so went headlong on his fate.

Escaping, like his friend Holkar, from the disaster of Panipat — though in a less discreditable
way, for he did not profess to take the field and then fly in the midst of battle, as the other
did — Suraj Mal took an early opportunity of displacing the Mahratta Governor of the important
fort of Agra, and at the same time, occupied some strong places in the Mewat country. The sagacious
speculator, about the same time, dropped the falling cause of Ghazi-ud-din, whose method of
statesmanship was too vigorous for his taste, and who, as has been above shown, retired soon
after from a situation which he had aided to render impracticable. But a criminal of greater
promise, about the same time, joined Suraj Mal. This was none other than the notorious Sumroo,
who had wisely left his late protector the Nawab of Audh, at the head of a battalion of Sepoys,
a detail of artillery, and some three hundred European ruffians of all countries.

Thus supported, the bucolic sagacity of the Jat Raja began for the first time to fail him,
and he made demands which seemed to threaten the small remains of the Moghul Empire. Najib-ud-daulah
took his measures with characteristic promptitude and prudence. Summoning the neighbouring
Musalman chiefs to the aid of Islam and of the empire, he took the field at the head of a small
but well-disciplined Moghul army, and soon found the opportunity to strike a decisive blow.

In this campaign the premier was so fortunate as to obtain solid assistance from the Biloch
chiefs of Farokhnagar and Bahadurgarh, who were in those days powerful upon both banks of the
Jamna up to as far north as Saharanpur on the eastern, and Hansi on the western side. The actual
commencement of hostilities between Suraj Mal and the Moghuls arose from a demand made by the
former for the Faujdarship (military prefecture) of the small district of Farokhnagar. Unwilling
to break abruptly with the Jat chief, Najib had sent an envoy to him, in the first instance,
pointing out that the office he solicited involved a transfer of the territory, and referring
him to the Biloch occupant for his consent. The account of the negotiation is so characteristic
of the man and the time, that I have thought it worth preserving. The Moghul envoy introduced
himself — in conformity with Eastern custom — by means of a gift, which, in this instance,
consisted of a handsome piece of flowered chintz, with which the rural potentate was so pleased
that he ordered its immediate conversion into a suit of clothes. Since this was the only subject
on which the Jat chief would for the present converse, the Moghul proposed to take his leave,
trusting that he might reintroduce the subject of the negotiations at a more favourable moment.
"Do nothing rashly, Thakur Sahib," said the departing envoy; "I will see you again to-morrow."
"See me no more," replied the inflated boor, "if these negotiations are all that you have to
talk of." The disgusted envoy took him at his word, and returned to Najib with a report of
the interview. "Is it so?" said the premier. "Then we must fight the unbeliever; and if it
be the pleasure of the Most High God, we will assuredly smite him."

But before the main body of the Moghuls had got clear of the capital, Suraj Mal had arrived
near Shahdara on the Hindan, within six miles of Dehli; and, had he retained the caution of
his earlier years, he might have at once shut up the Imperialists in their walled city. But
the place being an old hunting-ground of the Emperor's the Thakur's motive in coming had been
chiefly the bravado of saying that he had hunted in a royal park, and he was therefore only
attended by his personal staff. While he was reconnoitring in this reckless fashion, he was
suddenly recognised by a flying squadron of Moghul horse, who surprised the Jats, and killed
the whole party, bringing the body of the chief to Najib. The minister could not at first believe
in this unhoped-for success, nor was he convinced until the envoy who had recently returned
from the Jat camp identified the body by means of his own piece of chintz, which formed its
raiment. Meanwhile the Jat army was marching up in fancied security from Sikandrabad, under
Jowahir Singh, the son of their chief, when they were suddenly charged by the Moghul advanced
guard, with the head of Suraj Mal borne on a horseman's lance as their standard. In the panic
which ensued upon this ghastly spectacle, the Jats were thoroughly routed and driven back into
their own country. This event occurred towards the end of the year.

Foiled in their unaided attempt, they next made a still more signal mistake in allying themselves
with Malhar Rao Holkar, who, as we have seen, was secretly allied to the Musalmans. At first
they were very successful, and besieged the premier for three months in Dehli; but Holkar suddenly
deserted them, as was only to have been expected had they known what we know now; and they
were fain to make the best terms that they could, and return to their own country, with more
respectful views towards the empire and its protector.

But the young Thakur's thirst of conquest was by no means appeased, and he proceeded in 1765
to attack Madhu Sing, the Rajput ruler of Jaipur, son of the Kachwaha Raja Jai Singh, who had
lately founded a fine city there in lieu of the ancestral site, Amber. Descended from Kusha,
the eldest son of the Hindu demigod Rama, this tribe appears to have been once extensive and
powerful, traces of them being still found in regions as far distant from each other as; Gwalior
and the Northern Doab. (Vide Elliot, in voc.) In this attempt Jowahir appears to have been
but feebly sustained by Sumroo, who immediately deserted to the victors, after his employer
had been routed at the famous Lake of Pokar, near Ajmir. Jowahir retreated first upon Alwar,
thence he returned to Bhartpur, and soon after took up his abode at Agra, where he not long
afterwards was murdered, it is said at the instigation of the Jaipur Raja. A period of very
great confusion ensued in the Jat State; nor was it till two more of the sons of Suraj Mal
had perished — one certainly by violence — that the supremacy of the remaining son, Ranjit
Singh, was secured. In his time the Jat power was at its height; he swayed a country thick
with strongholds, from Alwar on the N.W. to Agra on the S.W., with a revenue of two millions
sterling, and an army of 60,000 men.

Meantime the Mahrattas, sickened by their late encounter with Carnac (p. 73), and occupied
with their own domestic disputes in the Deccan, paid little or no attention to the affairs
of Hindustan; and the overtures made to them by the Emperor in 1766, from Allahabad, were for
the time disregarded, though it is probable that they caused no little uneasiness in the British
Presidency, where it was not desired that the Emperor should be restored by such agency.

At this period Najib, as minister in charge of the metropolis and its immediate dependencies,
though skilfully contending against many obstacles, yet had not succeeded in consolidating
the empire so much as to render restoration a very desirable object to an Emperor living in
ease and security. Scarcely had the premier been freed from the menace of the Eastern Jats
by his own prowess and by their subsequent troubles, than their kindred of the Panjab began
to threaten Dehli from the west. Fortunately for the minister, his old patron, the Abdali,
was able to come to his assistance; and in April, 1767, having defeated the Sikhs in several
actions, Ahmad once more appeared in the neighbourhood of Panipat, at the head of 50,000 Afghan
horse.

He seems to have been well satisfied with the result of the arrangements that he had made after
crushing the Mahrattas in the same place six years before; only that he wrote a sharp reprimand
to Shujaa-ud-daulah for his conduct towards the Emperor. But this, however well deserved, would
not produce much effect on that graceless politician, when once the Afghan had returned to
his own country. This he soon after did, and appeared no more on the troubled scene of Hindustan.

Profiting by the disappearance of their enemy, the Mahrattas, having arranged their intestine
disputes, crossed the Chambal (a river flowing eastward into the Jamna from the Ajmir plateau),
and fell upon the Jaipur country towards the end of 1768. Hence they passed into Bhartpur,
where they exacted tribute, and whence they threatened Dehli in 1769. Among their leaders were
two of whom much will be seen hereafter. One was Madhoji Sindhia—"Patel" —the other was Takuji
Holkar. The first of these was the natural son of Ranoji Sindhia, and inherited, with his father's
power, the animosity which that chief had always felt against Najib and the Rohillas. The other
was a leader in the army of Malhar Rao Holkar (who had lately died), and, like his master,
was friendly to the Pathans. Thus, with the hereditary rivalry of their respective clans, these
foremost men of the Mahratta army combined a traditional difference of policy, which was destined
to paralyze the Mahratta proceedings, not only in this, but in many subsequent campaigns.

1770. — Aided by Holkar, the Dehli Government entered into an accommodation with the invaders,
in which the Jats were sacrificed, and the Rohillas were shortly after induced by Najib-ud-daulah
to enter into negotiations. These led to the surrender to the Mahrattas of the Central Doab,
between the provinces held by the Emperor to the eastward, and the more immediate territories
administered in his name from Dehli. These latter tracts were spared in pursuance of the negotiations
with the Emperor which were still pending.

Soon after these transactions the prudent and virtuous minister died, and was succeeded in
his post by his son, Zabita Khan. It is not necessary to enlarge upon the upright and faithful
character of Najib-ud-daulah, which has been sufficiently obvious in the course of our narrative,
as have also his skill and courage. It would have been well for the empire had his posterity
inherited the former qualities. Had Zabita, for instance, followed in his father's steps, and
had the Emperor at the same time been a man of more decision, it was perhaps even then possible
for a restoration to have taken place, in which, backed by the power of Rohilkand, and on friendly
terms with the British, the Court of Dehli might have played off Holkar against Sindhia, and
shaken off all the irksome consequences of a Mahratta Protectorate.

The preceding record shows how superior Najib-ud-daulah's character and genius were to those
of the native Hindustani nobles. It may be interesting to see how he impressed a European contemporary,
who had excellent opportunities of judging:—

"He is the only example in Hindustan of, at once, a great and a good character. He raised himself
from the command of fifty horse to his present grandeur entirely by his superior valour, integrity,
and strength of mind. Experience and abilities have supplied the want of letters and education,
and the native nobleness and goodness of his heart have amply made amends for the defect of
his birth and family. He is now about sixty years of age, borne down by fatigue and sickness."
— (Mr. Verelst, to the Court of Directors, March 28th, 1768, ap. Mill.)

Since this prominent mention has been made of the Rohillas, and since they are now for a short
time to play a yet more conspicuous part in the fortunes of the falling empire, it will be
well to give a brief description of their situation at the time.

It has been seen how Ali Mohammad rose in the reign of Mohammad Shah, and had been removed
from Rohilkand by the aid of Safdar Jang, the Viceroy of Audh. On the latter falling into disgrace,
Ali Mohammad returned to his native province about A.D. 1746. In the next two or three years
he continued successfully to administer the affairs of the fair and fertile tract, but, unfortunately
for his family, died before his heirs were capable of acting for themselves. Two relations
of the deceased chief acted as regents — Dundi Khan, the early patron of Najib, and Rahmat
Khan, known in India by the title of Hafiz, or "Protector." Safdar Jang continued to pursue
them with relentless purpose; and although the important aid of Ahmad, their foreign fellow-clansman,
and the necessity of combining against the Mahrattas, prevented the Audh Viceroy's hostility
from taking any very active form, yet there can be no doubt but that he bequeathed it to his
successor, Shujaa, along with many other unscrupulous designs. The Rohilla Pathans, for their
part, were as a race determined fighters, but generally false, fickle, and dissolute.

In 1753 the elder son of Ali Mohammad had made an attempt to remove the Protector and his colleague
from their post. It was not successful, and its only result was to sow dissensions among the
Rohillas, which caused their final ruin. In 1761, however, they bore a part in the temporary
overthrow of the Mahrattas at Panipat; and during the next seven years the Rohilla power had
passed the frontier of the Ganges, and overflowed the Central Doab, while the Najibabad family
(who had a less close connection with local politics, but were powerful kinsmen and allies)
had possession of the Upper Doab, up to the Siwalik Hills, above Saharanpur. Nevertheless,
this seeming good fortune was neither permanent nor real.

In 1769, as we have just seen, Najib, though well disposed, was unable to prevent the Central
Doab from passing under the Mahratta sway, and he died soon after its occupation occurred.
Dundi Khan also passed away about the same time; and the Protector Rahmat was left alone in
the decline of his ever-darkening days, to maintain, as best he might, an usurped authority
menaced by a multitude of foes.

Zabita Khan, the son and successor of the late minister, and himself an Afghan or Pathan by
race, did nevertheless for a time contribute to the resources of the Protector, his co-religionist
and quasi countryman.

He may, therefore, be reckoned amongst the Rohillas at this period; and, as far as extent of
territory went, he might have been an ally of some importance. But territory in imbecile hands
and with foes like the Mahrattas was anything but a source of strength. While these indefatigable
freebooters spread themselves over the whole Upper and Central Doab, and occupied all Rohilkand
— excepting the small territory of Farakhabad, to the south of the latter and north of the
former — Zabita khan, instead of endeavouring to prepare for the storm, occupied himself in
irritating the Emperor, by withholding the tribute due at Allahabad, and by violating the sanctity
of the Imperial zenana at Dehli by intrigues with the Begams.

Thus passed the winter of 1770-71, at the end of which the Mahrattas swarmed into the Doab,
and occupied the metropolis; only respecting the palace, where the Prince Regent and the Imperial
family continued to reside. Zabita, having organized no plan, could offer no resistance, and
escaped towards his northward possessions.

By the connivance of his hereditary ally, Takuji Holkar (as Grant Duff supposes), he left the
field open for the Deccani marauders to treat directly with Shah Alam for his restoration to
the throne of his father.

NOTE. — The authority chiefly followed in the portion of this chapter that relates to Rohilla
affairs, has been Hamilton's "History of the Rohillas," a valuable collection of contemporaneous
memoirs, although not always quite impartial. Captain Grant Duff's research and fairness are
beyond all praise, wherever transactions of the Mahrattas are concerned. The sketch of Jat
politics is derived from the Siar-ul-Mutakharin and the Tarikh-i-Mozafari; but it is as well
to state, once for all that the native chroniclers seldom present anything like complete materials
for history. A credulous and uncritical record of gossip combined with a very scanty analysis
of character and motive characterizes their works, which are rather a set of highly-coloured
pictures without proportion or perspective, than those orderly annals from which history elsewhere
has chiefly been compiled.

IT would be interesting to know the exact terms upon which the Mahrattas engaged to restore
the Emperor to his throne in the palace of Shahjahan. But, since they have even escaped the
research of Captain Grant Duff, who had access to the archives of Punah, it is hopeless for
any one else to think of recovering them. The emissary employed appears to have been the person
of indifferent character who, like the Brounker and Chiffinch of the English restoration of
1660, had been usually employed in less dignified agencies. Unacquainted with this man's name,
we must be content to take note of him by his title of Hissam, or Hashim Ud Daula. The Mahrattas
were, amongst other rewards, to receive a present fee of ten lakhs of rupees (nominally expressible
at £100,000 sterling, but in those days representing as much, perhaps, as ten times that amount
of our present money), nor would they stir in the matter until they received the sum in hard
cash. It is also probable that the cession of the provinces of Allahabad and Korah formed part
of the recompense they hoped to receive hereafter.

Though the Emperor, if he guaranteed this latter gift, was parting from a substance in order
to obtain a shadow, yet the very receipt of that substance by the others depended upon circumstances
over which they had (as the phrase is) no control. Early in the year 1771 the Emperor had sent
to the authorities in Calcutta, to consult them on his proposed movements; and they had strongly
expressed their disapprobation. But Shujaa-ud-daula, for reasons of his own, earnestly, though
secretly, encouraged the enterprise. The Emperor set out in the month of May, at the head of
a small but well-appointed army, amongst whom was a body of sepoys drilled after the European
fashion, and commanded by a Frenchman named Medoc, an illiterate man, but a good soldier. The
command-in-chief was held by Mirza Najaf Khan. A British detachment, under Major-General Sir
Robert Barker, attended him to the Korah frontier, where the General repeated, for the last
time, the unwelcome dissuasions of his Government. The Emperor unheedingly moved on, as a ship
drives on towards a lee shore; and the British power closed behind his wake, so that no trace
of him or his Government ever reappeared in the provinces that he had so inconsiderately left.

From this date two great parties in the Empire are clearly defined; the Musalmans, anxious
to retain (and quarrel over) the leavings of the great Afghan leader, Ahmad Abdali; and the
Mahrattas, anxious to revenge and repair the losses of Panipat. The Audh Viceroy acts henceforth
for his own hand — ready to benefit by the weakness of whichever party may be worsted; and
the British, with more both of vigour and of moderation, follow a like course of conduct.

Arrived at Farrukhabad, the Imperial adventurer confirmed the succession of that petty state
to the Bangash chief, whose father was lately dead, and received at the investiture a fine
(peshkash) of five lakhs of rupees. He then cantoned his army in the neighbourhood, and awaited
the cessation of the periodical rains. The Mahratta army, some 30,000 strong, was still encamped
at Dehli, but Madhoji Sindhia, the Patel, waited upon the Emperor in his cantonments, and there
concluded whatever was wanting of the negotiations. The Emperor then proceeded, and entered
his capital on Christmas Day.

At that time of year Dehli enjoys a climate of great loveliness; and it may be supposed that
the unhappy citizens, for their parts, would put on their most cheerful looks and the best
remnants of their often plundered finery, to greet the return of their lawful monarch. The
spirit of loyalty to persons and to families is very strong in the East, and we can imagine
that, as the long procession marched from Shahdara and crossed the shrunk and sandy Jamna,
Shah Alam, from the back of his chosen elephant, looked down upon a scene of hope and gaiety
enough to make him for the moment forget both the cares of the past and the anxieties of the
future, and feel himself at last every inch a king.

1772. — Whatever may have been his mood, his new allies did not leave him to enjoy it long.
Within three weeks of his return to the palace of his forefathers, he was induced to take the
field; and he set out northward at the head of 90,000 men, the greater number of whom were
Mahratta horsemen. It has already been shown that Zabita Khan had escaped to his own estates
a year before. The Bawani Mahal (comprising fifty-two pergunnahs, now included in the districts
of Saharanpur and Muzaffarnaggar) contained three strongholds: Pathargarh on the left, Sukhartal
on the right of the Ganges, and Ghausgarh, near Muzaffarnagar. The first two had been built
by the late minister, Najib-ud-daulah, to protect the ford which led to his fief in the north-western
corner of Rohilkand, for the Ganges is almost always fordable here, except in the high floods.
The last was the work of Zabita Khan himself, and its site is still marked by a mosque of large
size and fine proportions. Upon these points the first attacks of the Imperialists were directed. 

We knew it, like everyone else, for photography and printmaking, we had told many times with his finger
on the paper the very elegant stone shells that cover its long facade ..... But look at the original
building, with its color and size to form full view of her grace and beauty. Must see, for example,
the shadow projected by the bulky natural shells, hurt by the sun on the golden stone polished
wall: we must see the four beautiful windows, two of them very similar to mullioned Arabs,
who interrupt long stretches of those plain walls: we have to see those corners, and most correct
sharp edge, as if they were of burnished steel, and which stand, a field in the air, beautiful
stone shields, which are so many beauties art: must see, in short, those other big iron shells
covering their turn, by means of nails, the great door, and the beautiful ironwork of those melodramatic
Gates (pardon the adjective), and Royal Shield that great on the façade, and all aristocratic
and pious profiles ennoble outside .....-- already so poetic palace I said fifteenth century.
This was revealed by its architecture, which is set decadent Gothic platerescos details, and they
also indicate the yoke and the sheaf of arrows, special flag of the Catholic Kings, who are mentioned
in the Royal Shield.

The shell that holds all the building mean that it was built was a
knight Santiago and had been or had made a vow to go on pilgrimage
to Compostela, and shields with five lilies that adorn the back corners
of the palace and prove that from Santiago that belonged to the powerful
and enlightened family Maldonados of Salamanca.

And indeed, the Casa de las Conchas Maldonados was first of the lords of Barbalos, then the
Marquis of Valdecarzana inherited, and today has five times Grandee
of Spain, Conde de Santa Coloma, as the Count of Amayuelas.

* * *

By the way, and pardon the digression, Francisco Maldonado, the famous community member, partner Bravo
and Padilla, the slain the great box Gisbert, did not belong to the main branch mentioned family,
which was boss, though not the owner of the Casa de las Conchas a D. Pedro Maldonado and Pimentel,
also affects the cause of the Communities, which I seems appropriate to say some things here,
of all known, if there is someone who does neglected, which is not happening to me for many
hours .....

Is evident that Salamanca Segovia went to the aid of the mayor Ronquillo, like most all Castilian
towns. Salamanca began in the thing for a big riot (undoubtedly Corrillo exploded in the Grass!),
during which people burned the house butler the terrible Fonseca, archbishop of Santiago, knocked
many others, and pulled the rods to the authorities. At this juncture, the powerful D. Pedro
Maldonado and Pimentel, believing that victorious rebels could not do anything good in Salamanca,
and yes it would look much going to the aid of the Communards, formed with them a host flood,
and led to fight against the Imperials. The Salamanca in different sessions dealt with various
fortune, they finally declared fully adversely Villalar fields. Beside Pimentel Maldonado, or rather,
in the ranks of his people, fought there as well another Maldonado, something relative and his
son of Salamanca, and both were taken prisoner after his defeat were .-- then sentenced to death
the principal leaders or heads of Communal, but as the D. Pedro Pimentel Maldonado had kinship
with the famous Count de Benavente, consiguióse Maldonado and the other, known by the street
from the Moors, died in his place with Bravo and Padilla, as if this great trick might dazzle
the public ..... even in times when there were no newspapers .-- And after the imperial happened
after to save a few months locked Pimentel Maldonado, diéronse realized that nobody had been
deceived by the substitution referred to and had to cut his throat too, I think Simancas, a
year after his namesake .-- On the way to the illustrious D. Pedro trocar a year to live forever
and has enjoyed popularity, and still very much enjoy time, poor memory D. Francisco, and the
high honor to be included in the Schedule Gisbert.

So let us return to the Casa de las Conchas.

* * *

The door was open: call, however, and we responded .....--¿ What to do such trouble, knowing, as
we knew for photography and printmaking, the patio was beautiful?

Excuse me Mr. Conde de Santa Coloma, the party that we sneak in rondón was at home, under the protection
of our good intentions .....

And what we saw patio! - His style could be described as mixed Gothic and Moorish: the general
lines Mudejar had more than anything else: in the windows and other details predominate Gothic .--
In one or another sort, everything was there, handsome, gorgeous
and the best taste, causing real surprise neatness and thoroughness
of execution.

Suffice to say that the hard stone resembled braided hemp rope as
if it were, and even drafts of lace, linen like .....

Gladly we later
led our exploration, but we did not dare to So interesting and we
had left that house as we entered it, full of respect his noble and
religious character, and admiration to its artistic.

* * *

Exceedingly disadvantageous for arrogantísima Church of the Jesuits (which, as I said, stands opposite
the Casa de las Conchas) is the transition from one building to another. Everything the chivalrous
Gothic palace has fine, delicate and spiritual, it is of heavy, corporeal merely rude and the
great Greco-Roman temple erected there the Society of Jesus. And yet still was under such a disadvantage,
if the pagan style Catholic church is distinguished for its purity
and correctness ..... (Which, then, there would be a matter of taste
or school between Classical and Romantic), but it happens that this
sumptuous Baroque church is within its own style, because he sinned
from the beginning against the traditional rules and then suffered
the pernicious influence of the worst days of neogentílica architecture.

But

what weary of explaining what you already have your name? - The Church of the Company is a new issue,
highly characteristic, which is now called in Architecture Schools Jesuit, well exceeding in majesty
and beauty to many erected the disciples of Loyola in Spain, Portugal and America.

In short: the temple of which we only great for the material grandeur of size and the treasures
they represent so many deformed rocks as they are used in great steps in a vast cover in two
tough and colorful towers, a huge dome crowned by towering dome, and countless statues, pins,
badges, balls, moldings, balconies and windows that all there on that front, and all gigantic,
out of touch, huge .....

The Church and Association of the Company was founded by Philip III and Margaret of Austria.
Both buildings occupy over 20,000 square meters. To build, or is to doze the land on which stand,
two churches were demolished and three city blocks, eliminating two whole streets .-- Certainly
the Casa de las Conchas found himself in danger of coming too the ground, and if such attack
is not consummated, debióse, according to some, the civic courage and traditional culture
of the children of Salamanca, and, on the advice vulgar, to the inadmissible a certain humorous
and unseemly condition, I do not believe come to be formulated .....

In the College there is room for 300 missionaries, and all the halls,
classrooms and other facilities of a real university.

In short: a doorman told us, as the supreme commendation, that the keys of the house weigh ten and
nine Spanish arrobas .....--¡ What is this aesthetic criterion stale!

The interior of the church is not so great in size or as ostentatious way presumes outside. Doric,
and only vulgar rich retablos Churrigueresque is cold and insignificant. Only there called attention
to the high altar, so huge colossal and complicated in its structure. It can be said to be a
storm of pine and gold the pair that a mutiny against the architectural rules. In the shafts
of the do not know whether to call columns, leafy vines entangled are natural size, with their
corresponding clusters; all this gold and then polished.

The gigantic statues of the four Evangelists, which also part of the composition, seems to cross a
desert on windy day: And turns are so inflated their clothes!

Kneeling in the middle of that lonely temple pilgrim saw a beautiful, too beautiful penitent clean
and elegant, or at least to excite ideas of penance. We supported on the staff, hung the hat on
his broad back Caryatid, and were fixed in altar a large and bright eyes like two black suns
.....-- Comedy or tragedy (I believe devoutly that would be the last),
that attitude, that holy garment, place action and our own circumstances
will command respect, and not cure us of ask anyone who was the pilgrim,
and we're back to talking about her since then .....

And remember
of the best home that the Jesuits had in Spain .-- This sentence is
not me belongs: it is late and I heard the Father Manrique .-- For
my part I should add that Salamanca such a relief to San Ignacio de
Loyola, because (as discussed below), the celebrated founder of the
Society of Jesus was tried and was imprisoned in the illustrious city
of Tormes.

* * *

Free our attention from the powerful appeal of the Casa de las Conchas
and the Church and School of the Jesuits, he returned to look at the
poetic and artistic character of that historic neighborhood.

But what amazed us because it was not so much an air of old-age and romantic melancholy, as monumental
greatness continued deploying our eyes.

Company Street is called that starts in the buildings above, and so
she and all the squares, streets and alleys immediate, consisting
of a succession of tall buildings stone, or is in an unbroken series
of palaces, churches, convents, schools and houses, we instilled respect
and veneration.

Everything was there monument as in some districts of Ferrara, Pisa and Florence. Everywhere alzábanse
history patterns military devotion, aristocracy or science, according to the architecture and purpose
of each building .-- Oh! We could not deny it: we were in Athens in Spanish: Girl were in Rome.

Everywhere stone, silence and solitude! But this alone was not as fearful as the ruins or that of
the cemeteries was placid and majestic as that of the cloisters. Certainly no one went, or
seem to have happened long ago, by those very noble streets: very
certain that high grass growing between paving slabs and cobbles of
.....; I do not know whether the presence of both adorned coat of
arms as corners, walls, doors, gates, balconies and gates of temples,
schools and palaces, or if they were well preserved even the smallest
details of every page of architectural stone, or if the nature and
form Christian of those monuments, made them appear alive, subsisting,
as militants the chapels which remain closed bell, as the dumb convents
whose goal burns evening light before the image of Mary, or as the
naked trees of winter, when is that its branches bend but not break,
the momentum of the hurricanes .....

Ah! yes ..... Salamanca is not
an age or race dead last, as happens with many Gentile cities rich
in monuments: Salamanca still exists with all its old vitality although
such an unfavorable season.

And there, as he has entirely expired civilization to which he owed his life, because the ideals
that are noble symbol churches and schools, are prevail in the nation who rebuilt the Catholic Kings,
because, if not within the old walls kissing the Tormes, at least in the brand new hotels
in the widening of Madrid, perpetuate, with its ancient armorial bearings, the aristocratic families
who built those palaces that we were watching, because still, finally, the Christian religion,
the Spanish monarchy, the nobility of Castile and even defended democratic homelands Laws Communities
that is, all the springs of greatness Salamanca.

If all this disappear, Salamanca, keep it well-preserved monuments, would not be a corpse, as
Nineveh or Pompeii.

But enough of speeches, and list them, Siqueira quickly, things we saw that morning before returning
to the inn.

* * *

In a corner next to the College of the company read in letters of gold and marble headstone
that the great poet lived there Meléndez Valdés.

Below find a tile called the Plaza de San Benito, which, rather than square seemed the sound of a monastery
.-- Nor were there people.

The only thing that was there was a beautiful church, consecrated to the Holy which gives its
name to that place, church, according to knew then, had served in
addition to the family cemetery Maldonado, when it was lawful sleeping
the big sleep at the foot of the altar, or whether in times of non-We
placed them all hygiene.

After finding many homes were Gothic or platerescas, whose covers
are all handsome were large shields that indicate the family to which
they belonged or had belonged .-- The sun of Solís, the lilies of
the Maldonados five, and, above all, the stars of Fonseca more abundant
than any other flag.

And here I must point out that the house of Fonseca was for centuries the most powerful of Salamanca,
and in the civil and ecclesiastical matters, and that apart from their great warriors, they
made celebrated throughout Christendom that scathing Archbishop of Santiago and Patriarch of
Alexandria to talk so much about the stories, and another archbishop of Santiago and Toledo,
his son, whom Salamanca had the very important foundations, as we shall in due course.

In the plaza of San Benito to spend another lonely no less monumental, called the Eagle, being
noted that, as we did not find anyone who could point the way, had to be guided by the sun's position,
in order to reach the hotel soon, as would be lunchtime ..... in its rules and in our stomach.

In the Eagle Square stands a beautiful building Greco-Roman, that colleagues would famous church
of the Augustinians, that both had heard at Madrid .-- Not for a moment penetrate it occurred
to us, but we consideration for the afternoon or the next day, to study with due detail.

But we fell into another danger, and the more apretábamos step, major
architectural wonders We went on the road trying to stop .....

Eagle's
Square we pass to the Monterrey, and we met face to face with the
magnificent palace of this name, which is one of the wonders of Salamanca,
as you can see in the Photographers showcases the town and court,
and served as a model for the Pavilion Spanish for the Paris Exhibition
of 1867.

We fled, as well ....., swearing again a few hours after we fled .-- And not only because for lunch
is not cool, but because we were stunned that rapid succession of
emotions, much new beauty, so much poetry, so much history, both as
a portent of various kinds called our attention on all sides and at
the same moment .-- We needed a rest, to some notes, download our
memories !.....

We come, finally, the hotel .....-- And considering
I now that my readers will also need some rest, get point to this
chapter, leaving for lunch following the talk and other interesting
things, none of which (by the brackets) will nothing to do with architecture.


As allies of both parties they were clearly at liberty to throw in their help against the common
enemies of both, especially when these chanced to be their own enemies also. The Mahrattas
were the foes of all rulers on that side of India; and the Rohillas were either in collusion
with the Mahrattas or unable to oppose them. It was essential, if not to the safety of the
possessions of the Vazir-Viceroy, at least to British interests in Bengal, that a band of faithless
usurpers should not be allowed to hold a country which they could not, or would not, prevent
from affording a high road for the Mahrattas at all seasons of the year. That view, perhaps,
commended itself to the House of Lords when they finally acquitted Mr. Hastings, after a protracted
trial, in which some of the ablest of the Whig orators had been engaged against the accused.
It is easy for historians, writing long after the passions, the temptations, the necessities
of the moment have ceased to press, to criticize the acts of the past by the "dry light" of
pure reason and abstract morality. But the claims of necessity should not be ignored in delivering
what is intended to form a sort of judicial award.

It is perhaps a mark of the good sense and justice of the English nation that, when they had
considered the matter calmly, they should have come to the conclusion that to condemn Hastings
would be to condemn their own existence in India. Such a conclusion would logically require
their retirement from the country  a step they did not feel at all called upon to take. This
appears the moral of the acquittal. Even Macaulay, who objects to the decision of the Peers
acquitting Hastings as inadmissible at the bar of history nevertheless confesses that it was
generally approved by the nation. At all events, this particular affair was dropped out of
the charges even before the impeachment began.

But, however important to the existence of the British in India might be the possession of
this frontier territory by the strongest ally they could secure, the conduct of the Emperor
(or rather of Mirza Najaf, in whose hands he was not quite a free agent) remains the special
subject of inquiry in this place. I think, however, that both the minister and his master were
quite justified in wishing to transfer the province of Rohilkand from the hands of Rahmat to
those of the Vazir. It has been already seen that the Pathan usurpers of that province had
always been foes of the Moghul power, since the first rebellion of Ali Mohammad, with the solitary
exception of the campaign of 1761, when they joined their Abdali kinsman at Panipat. It has
also been seen that the fords by which the Ganges could be crossed in the cold weather were
in their country, but that they could never hold them; and that, lastly, they were known to
have been lately in treaty with the Mahrattas, without reference to the interests of the Empire.
Eastern politicians are not usually or especially scrupulous; but, when it is remembered that
the Rohillas were feudatories who had neither the will nor the power to be faithful, it must
follow that here were substantial considerations of vital importance to the Dehli Government,
sufficient to give them a fair inducement to sanction the enterprise of one who was their chief
minister and most powerful supporter.

Of Shujaa's own motives there is not so much palliation to offer. He had often received aid
from the Rohillas, and was under personal obligations to them, which ought to have obliterated
all earlier memories of a hostile character; and, whatever grounds the Emperor may have had
for consenting to an attack upon the Pathans, or the British for aiding the same, none such
are likely to have seriously actuated the Vazir in his individual character. If he thought
the Rohillas were inclined to negotiate with the Mahrattas, he must have seen how those negotiations
had been broken off the instant he came to their assistance; and if he wished to command the
movements of the Mahrattas, he might first have endeavoured to strengthen the hands of the
Imperial Government, and to cordially carry out his share of the treaty of 1772.

It must, however, be added — although the Vazir's character was not such as to render him altogether
entitled to such justifications — that the latter of those engagements had been better fulfilled
by himself than by the Pathans. For while, on the one hand, he had driven the Mahrattas out
of the country, the Protector Rahmat Khan, on his part, had neither collected the wage of that
service from the other chiefs, nor paid it himself. Moreover, the Vazir's proceedings were
only directed against the usurping Protector and his actual adherents; and he was joined by
Zabita and some Rohilla chiefs, while others, among whom were the sons of the late Dundi Khan,
held aloof altogether, and Faizula Khan, the son of the first founder of the Rohilla power,
Ali Mohammad, and in every way the most respectable of the clan, though he would not desert
an old friend in his hour of need, yet strongly disapproved of his proceedings, and urged him
to fulfil his compact and pay the Vazir's claim. The bribe by which Zabita had been detached
from the confederacy, was an assignment of the district in the neighbourhood of Meerut, which
had cleared itself of Mahratta occupation under the late Vazir's rule.

1774. — In October, 1773, the fort of Etawa fell, and the last Mahratta forces were driven
from the Doab. The next two or three months were occupied in vain negotiations on the part
of the Vazir with the Rohillas; and in more serious combinations with the Imperial Government,
and with the British. And in January, 1774, the allied armies moved forward. On the 12th of
April the British entered Rohilkand; the Protector, when finally summoned to pay what he owed,
having replied by a levee en masse of all who would obey his summons. At the same time, the
Emperor ordered out a column which he accompanied for a few marches; and issued patents confirming
the Vazir Shujaa-ud-daula in his Doab conquests, as also in the grant already made by the British
of Korah and Allahabad. This latter circumstance removes all ground for calling in question
the cession of those provinces by their temporary masters, and shows that the Emperor was conscious
of his own inability to hold them, or to grant them to enemies of Audh and of England.

On the 23rd of the same month (April) the British army completely surprised the camp of the
Protector, who was defeated and slain, after a brave but brief resistance at Kattra. Faizula
was pardoned and maintained in his own patrimonial fief of Rampur (still held by his descendants),
while the rest of the province was occupied, with but little further trouble, by the Vazir,
in strict conformity to an Imperial firman to that effect.

The army of the Empire, under Mirza Najaf Khan, the Deputy Vazir, had not arrived in time to
participate actively in this brief campaign; but the Vazir acknowledged the importance of the
moral support that he had received from the Empire by remitting to court a handsome fine, on
his investiture with the administration of the conquered territory. He also gave the Mirza
some reinforcement, to aid him in his pending operations against the Jats of Bhartpur. Zabita
Khan was at the same time expelled from his lately acquired fief at Meerut, but was again put
in charge next year; a proof, were proof required, of the weakness of the Home administration
of Majad-ud-daulah, who (it need hardly be said) received a bribe on the occasion.

Anticipating a little, we may notice that the Viceroy of Audh, at the very climax of his good
fortune, met the only enemy whom neither force can subdue nor policy deceive. Shujaa-ud-daulah
died in January, 1775; and as it was not possible for so conspicuous a public character to
pass away without exciting popular notice, the following explanation of the affair was circulated
at the time; which, whether a fact or a fiction, deserves to be mentioned as the sort of ending
which was considered in his case probable and appropriate. It was believed that, the family
of Rahmat Khan having fallen into his hands, Shujaa-ud-daulah sent for one of the fallen chief's
daughters, and that the young lady, in the course of the interview, avenged the death of her
father by stabbing his conqueror with a poisoned knife. "Although," says the author of the
Siar-ul-Mutakharin, who is the authority for the story, "there may be no foundation of truth
in this account, yet it was at the time as universally believed as that God is our Refuge."

The editor of the Calcutta translation of 1789 asserts that he had satisfactory proof of the
truth of this story. The Viceroy died of a cancer in the groin; and the women of his Zanana,
who were let out on the occasion, and with one of whom he (the translator) was acquainted,
had made a song upon the subject. They gave full particulars of the affair, and stated that
the young lady — she was only seventeen — had been put to death on the day the Viceroy received
the wound. (S. U. M., III. 268.)

The death of the Viceroy-Vazir, however occasioned, was a serious blow to the reduced Empire
of Dehli, which was just then beginning to enjoy a gleam of sunshine such as had not visited
it since the day when Mir Mannu and the eldest son of Mohammad Shah defeated the Abdali, in
1743. Had the career of Shujaa-ud-daulah been prolonged a few years, it is possible that his
ambitious energy, supported by British skill and valour, and kept within bounds by Mirza Najaf
Khan's loyal and upright character, would have effectually strengthened the Empire against
the Mahrattas, and altered the whole subsequent course of Indian history.

But Shujaa's son and successor was a weak voluptuary, who never left his own provinces; and
although the Mirza, his deputy in the Vazirship and real locum tenens, received for his lifetime
the reward of his merits, yet he was unable of himself to give a permanent consolidation to
the tottering fabric.

It has been seen that he was meditating a campaign against the Jats, whom Zabita's recent fall
had again thrown into discontent, when summoned to Rohilkand, in 1774. In fact, he had already
wrested from them the fort of Agra, and occupied it with a garrison of his own, under a Moghul
officer, Mohammad Beg, of Hamadan. Not daunted by this reverse, Ranjit Singh, the then ruler
of that bold tribe the Jats, advanced upon the capital, and occupied Sikandrabad with 10,000
horse. The forces left in Dehli consisted of but 5,000 horse and two battalions of sepoys;
but they sufficed to expel the intruder. He shortly afterwards, however, returned, reinforced
by the regulars and guns under Sumroo; but by this time the Mirza was returned from Rohilkand,
and after the rains of 1774, marched against them, aided by a chief from Hariana, named after
himself Najaf Kuli Khan, who brought into the field some 10,000 troops. This man, who was a
good soldier and a faithful follower of the minister, was a converted Hindu, of the Rathur
tribe; a native of the Bikanir country bordering on Rajputana Proper to the south, and to the
north on Hariana and other states immediately surrounding the metropolis. Having been in service
at Allahabad, under the father of Mohammad Kuli, the connection and early patron of the Mirza,
he became a Mohammadan under the sponsorship of the latter, and ever after continued a member
of his household. At the time of which I write, he had been appointed to the charge of districts
returning twenty lakhs a year, with the title of Saif-ud-daulah.

The departure of the Mirza for this campaign was extremely agreeable to the Diwan, Majad-ud-daulah,
for he never lost an opportunity of prejudicing the Emperor's mind against this powerful rival,
in whose recent appointment to the office of Naib Vazir, moreover, he had found a special disappointment.
Indeed, Shah Alam, between these two ministers, was like the hero of medi¾val legend between
his good and evil angels; only differing in this, that in his case the good influence was also,
to a great extent, the most powerful. What the wily Kashmirian might have done in the way of
supplanting the Mirza, if the latter had been signally worsted, and he himself had been otherwise
fortunate, cannot now be certainly conjectured, for a fresh revolt of Zabita's summoned the
Diwan to the northward, whilst his rival was successfully engaged with the Jats. In this expedition
Majad-ud-daulah displayed a great want of spirit and of skill, so that Zabita became once more
extremely formidable. Fortunately at this crisis Dehli was visited by an envoy, soliciting
investiture for the new Viceroy of Audh, Asaf-ud-daulah. Accompanying the embassy was a force
of 5,000 good troops, with a train of artillery, the whole under command of the deceased Shujaa's
favourite general, Latafat Khan. This timely reinforcement saved the metropolis, and allowed
of a settlement being made with the incorrigible Zabita, which preserved, to some extent at
least, the dignity of the Government (Vide next chapter).

Meanwhile the Imperialists had found the Jats, under their chieftain, intrenched near Hodal,
a town sixty miles from Dehli, on the Mathra road. Dislodged from this, they fell back a few
miles, and again took up a position in a fortified village called Kotban, where the Mirza endeavoured
to blockade them. After amusing him with skirmishes for about a fortnight, they again fell
back on Dig, a stronghold, to become the scene of still more important events a few years later.
Dig — the name is perhaps a corruption of some such word as Dirajgarh — is a strong fort, with
a beautiful palace and pleasure-grounds adjoining, on the shores of an artificial lake, fed
by the drainage of part of the Alwar Highlands. Observing that the sallies of the Jats had
ceased, the Mirza left their camp at Dig in his rear, and marched to Barsana, where a pitched
battle was fought.

1775. — The van of the Imperialists was commanded by Najaf Kuli. In the centre of the main
line was the Mirza himself, with battalions of sepoys and artillery, under officers trained
by the English in Bengal, on the two wings. In the rear was the Moghul cavalry. The enemy's
regular infantry — 5,000 strong, and led by Sumroo — advanced to the attack, covered by clouds
of Jat skirmishers, and supported by a heavy cannonade, to which the Mirza's artillery briskly
replied, but from which he lost several of his best officers and himself received a wound.
A momentary confusion ensued; but the Mirza, fervently invoking the God of Islam, presently
charged the Jats at the head of the Moghul horse, who were, it will be remembered, his personal
followers. Najaf Kuli, accompanied by the regular infantry, following at the double, the Jats
were broken; and the resistance of Sumroo's battalions only sufficed to cover the rout of the
rest of the army, and preserve some appearance of order as he too retreated, though in somewhat
better order, towards Dig. An immense quantity of plunder fell into the hands of the victors,
who soon reduced the open country, and closely invested the beaten army. Such, however, was
the store of grain in the Fort of Dig, that the strictest blockade proved fruitless for a twelvemonth;
nor was the Fort finally reduced till the end of March, 1776, when the garrison found means
— not improbably by connivance — to escape to the neighbouring castle of Kumbhair with portable
property on elephants. The rest of the Thakur's wealth was seized by the victors — his silver
plate, his stately equipages and paraphernalia, and his military chest, containing six lakhs
of rupees — which may perhaps be regarded as not very inferior, in relative value, to a quarter
of a million sterling of our modern money.

In the midst of these successes, and whilst he was occupied in settling the conquered country,
the Mirza received intelligence from Court that Zabita Khan, emboldened by his easy triumph
over the Diwan, Majad-ud-daulah (Abdul Ahid Khan), had taken into his pay a large body of Sikhs,
with whom he was about to march upon the metropolis.

The enterprising minister returned at once to Dehli, where he was received with high outward
honour. He was, on this occasion, attended by the condottiere Sumroo, who, in his usual fashion,
had transferred his battalions to the strongest side soon after the battle of Barsana. Sumroo's
original patron, Mir Kasim, died about the same time, in the neighbourhood of Dehli, where
he had settled, after years of skulking and misery, in the vain hope of obtaining employment
in the Imperial service. The date of his death is given by Broome (Hist. of Beng. Army, p.
467) as 6th dune, 1777: it is added that his last shawl was sold to pay for a winding-sheet,
and that his family were plundered of the last wreck of their possessions. But the detail of
this year's events and their consequences requires a fresh chapter.

NOTE—The following is the text of the supplemental treaty of 1772, as given by Captain Hamilton.
(The former portion having provided in general terms for an alliance, offensive and defensive.)
"The Vuzeer of the Empire shall establish the Rohillas, obliging the Mahrattas to retire, either
by peace or war. If at any time they shall enter the country, their expulsion is the business
of the Vuzeer. The Rohilla Sirdars, in consequence of the above to agree to pay to the Vuzeer
forty lakhs of rupees, in manner following — viz., ten lakhs, in specie, and the remaining
thirty lakhs in three years from the beginning of the year 1180 Fussulee." Only redundant or
unimportant phrases have been omitted: there is not a word of payment to the Mahrattas. The
contention that the Vazir of Oudh was only surety for the payment to the Mahrattas is not very
pertinent. For the Mahrattas did not quit Rohilcand till the Vazir expelled them, and the money
was not paid. But, as we have seen, the gloss is unsupported. Besides Hamilton, Tarikh-i-Mozafari
and Francklin's "Shah Alum" have been the chief authorities for this chapter.

CHAPTER IV.

A.D. 1776-85.

Vigour of Mirza Najaf — Zabita rebels — Emperor takes the Field, and the Rebellion is suppressed
— Sumroo's Jaigir — Abdul Ahid takes the Field — Unsuccessful Campaign against the Sikhs —
Dehli threatened, but relieved by Najaf — Mirza's arrangements — Popham takes Gwalior — Begum
Sumroo — Death of Mirza Najaf — Consequent Transactions — Afrasyab Khan becomes Premier — Mirza
Shaffi returns to Dehli — Is it Peace? — Murder of Shaffi — Action of Mr. Hastings — Flight
of Shahzada — Madhoji Sindhia goes to Agra — Afrasyab's Death — Tribute claimed from British
— Death of Zabita Khan — Sindhia supreme — Chalisa famine — State of Country — General distress.

1776. — THE splendid exertions of Mirza Najaf, though not yet at an end, might have been expected
to give the Empire a breathing-time wherein to recover its strength. If we except the British
in Bengal, it was now the most formidable military power on this side of India. No more than
three fortified places remained to the Jats of all their once vast possessions. The Mahrattas
had been occupied in the Deccan by the events that followed upon the death of their Peshwa,
Madho Rao; and the whole of their forces were temporarily withdrawn during the course of the
year, by order of his successor. Najaf held viceregal state at Agra, surrounded not only by
his faithful Moghuls and Persians, but by two brigades of foot and artillery, under the command,
respectively, of Sumroo and of Medoc. The Mirza's chief Asiatic subordinates were Najaf Kuli
Khan his adopted son, the converted Hindu, otherwise Saif-ud-daulah; and Mohammad Beg of Hamadan:
two officers of whom frequent mention will be found in the progress of this narrative. Mirza
Shaffi, the minister's nephew, also held a high command. Shah Alam lived the life of ease which
had become a second nature to him, at Dehli, surrounded by able servants of the Mirza's selection.
One of these, indeed, soon obtained an apparent ascendancy over the indolent monarch, which
was destined to afford another instance of the wisdom of that maxim invented of old in the
East, "Put not your trust in Princes." The only enemy who could disturb the repose of what
may be termed the Home Districts was Zabita Khan, who still exhibited all the faithlessness
so common with his race, and a turbulent disposition peculiar to himself. Finding all present
hope of aid from the Jats and Mahrattas at an end (and instigated, it was suspected, by his
late unsuccessful opponent, the Financial Minister, Abdul Ahlid Khan), Zabita, as stated at
the close of the preceding chapter, turned to the Sikhs: a people who, in the decay of the
Empire, had established themselves in the Sirhind territory, notably in Pattiala, and in Jhind.
These pushing warriors — of whose prowess, both against and for the British, modern history
tells so much — gladly accepted the invitation of the Pathan insurgent, and, crossing the Jamna
in considerable numbers, joined his force at Ghausgarh, the fort between Saharanpur and Muzafarnagar,
of which mention has been already made. It is even stated by Francklin (though, as usual, without
specification of authority) that the Pathan on this occasion embraced the religion of the Sikhs,
a sort of eclectic Monotheism tinctured with Hindu doctrine.

1777. — This conduct was justly regarded by the Mirza as a gross instance, not merely of disloyalty,
but — what in his eyes was even worse — of impiety. In the opinion of a stern soldier of Islam,
such as the Persian Prince had always shown himself to be, the act of joining with unbelievers
was unpardonable. He therefore despatched a strong force against the combined rebels, under
the command of an officer named Abdul Kasim Khan. Nothing daunted, the Confederates drew out
their troops in front of the fort of Ghausgarh, and at once engaged the Imperial troops, whom
they at the same time outflanked with a large body of horse, who got into the rear of the Imperialists
without being perceived. Placed between two attacks, and deprived of their leader by a stray
shot, the latter soon gave way, and Zabita, having pursued them for some distance, returned
to his stronghold triumphant. On this Mirza Najaf Khan resolved to take the field with all
his power, and ere long presented himself before Ghausgarh, accompanied by the Emperor in person.
The Mirza was aided in this campaign by the force of 5,000 men, with artillery, contributed
by the new Viceroy of Audh, as part of the peshkash, or fine for the investiture, and for the
succession to the office of Vazir of the Empire, which had been held by his father, and which
he desired to retain against the counter-claims of the Nizam and of other competitors. (Vide
last chapter, p. 115.) The Pathan had, however, evacuated the fort on receiving notice of their
approach, and retreated with his allies to their country beyond the Jamna, closely followed
by the Imperial forces. An attempt at negotiation having been contemptuously rejected by the
Captain-General, Mirza Najaf Khan, the two armies engaged on the famous field of Panipat, and
the action which ensued is described (with manifest exaggeration) as having been only less
terrible than the last that was fought on the same historic ground, between the Mahrattas and
the Musalmans, in 1761. Beyond this the native historians give no particulars of the battle,
which raged till night, and with not unequal fortunes, if we may judge from the result — for
on the following morning Zabita Khan's renewed applications to treat were favourably received;
on which occasion his estates were restored, and a double matrimonial alliance concluded. The
Mirza himself condescended to take the Pathan's sister as his wife, while his godson (so to
speak), Najaf Kuli, was promised the hand of Zabita's daughter. The pardon of this restless
rebel was attributed to the intercession of Latafat, the General of the Audh Vazir, who is
said to have had a large bribe on the occasion. (Francklin, chap. Y.)

Peace being thus restored to Hindustan, the Minister revisited Agra, where he proceeded to
provide for the administration of the country.

The English sought his alliance; but the negotiation failed because he would not surrender
Sumroo. Asaf-ud-daulah, Viceroy of Audh, was recognized as titular Vazir; a trustworthy chief,
Maulah Ahmad Dad, was appointed to the charge of Sirhind; Najaf Kuli Khan held the vast tract
extending from that frontier to the borders of Rajputana; and Sumroo was placed in charge of
the country adjoining Zabita Khan's lands, in the centre of which he fixed his capital at Sardhana,
long destined to remain in the possession of his family, and where a country house and park,
familiar to the English residents at Meerut, still belong to the widow of his last descendant.
This territory, nominally assigned for the maintenance of the troops under the adventurer's
command, was valued in those days at six laths of rupees annually; so that the blood-stained
miscreant, whose saturnine manners had given him a bad name, even among the rough Europeans
of the Company's battalion, found his career of crime rewarded by an income corresponding to
that of many such petty sovereigns as those of his native country.

1778. — The beginning of this year was marked by a bloodless campaign, to which Majad-ud-daulah
led the Emperor. The Rajputs were the object of the attack, and they were rigorously mulcted.
The Mirza's personal share in this matter was confined to that of a peacemaker. He probably
disapproved of the campaign, which had been undertaken in a spirit of rivalry to himself; and
by obtaining terms for the Rajputs he made new ties while displaying his own power. He accompanied
the return of the expedition to Dehli, where his daughter was married to Najaf Kuli in the
presence of the Emperor.

Mirza Najaf Khan then departed once more to Agra, the seat of his administration and his favourite
abode. But his repose was not of long continuance, and he was soon called upon for fresh exertions;
the Sikhs having risen against Maulah Ahmad Dad, the Faujdar of Sirhind, whom they defeated
and slew. On the receipt of this intelligence the Emperor had deputed Abdul Ahid Khan — known
to us by his title of Nawab Majad-ud-daulah — with an army nominally under the command of one
of the Imperial Princes, to indict signal chastisement upon obstinate offenders. If the surmise
of the native historians be correct — that Abdul Ahid Khan had been privy to the late combination
between the Sikhs and Zabita Khan against Mirza Najaf — the fact of his being sent against
them, without any objection from so wise and loyal a minister as the Mirza, can only be accounted
for by citing it as a proof of the peculiar danger to which great men are exposed, under an
Eastern despotism, of reposing their confidence in secret enemies. That Abdul Ahid was even
then plotting against his patron will be seen to be likely from his subsequent conduct, and
certainly derives no confutation from the circumstance of his being a native of Kashmir, a
country the faithlessness of whose inhabitants is proverbial, even in Indian story.

The Prince, whose standard was the rallying point of the army, is variously named as Jawan
Bakht, Farkhanda Bakht, and Akbar; the former being the name of the Prince whom we saw acting
as Regent during the Emperor's residence under English protection at Allahabad, the later that
of the future successor to the titular Empire. Whoever it may have been, the outset of the
expedition promised him success, if not distinction. The Imperial host, 20,000 strong and with
an efficient park of artillery. came in contact with the enemy at Karnal; but Majad-ud-daulah
preferred negotiation to fighting, and induced the Sikhs to pay down a sum of three lakhs,
and pledge themselves to the payment of an annual tribute. Joining the Sikh forces to his own,
the Majad-ud-daulah next proceeded northwards, but was brought to a check at Pattiala by Amar
Singh, the Jat chief of that state. Here fresh negotiations ensued, in which the perfidious
Kashmirian is said to have offered to allay himself with the Sikhs for the destruction of Mirza
Najaf Khan, on condition of being supported by them in his endeavours to be made Prime Minister
in the room of that statesman. Whether the Jat leader had profited by the lesson lately read
to his brethren of Bhartpur, or whether he was merely actuated by a desire to try conclusions
with the Kashmirian, having penetrated the cowardice of his character, is matter for conjecture.
Whatever the intrigue may have been, it was soon frustrated. A large Sikh reinforcement profited
by the time gained in the negotiation to advance from Lahor; the Karnal force deserted the
Imperial camp, and a general onset was made upon it the following morning. Led by a half-hearted
commander and an inexperienced Prince, the Imperialists offered but a faint resistance; but
their retreat was covered by the artillery, and they contrived to escape without suffering
much in the pursuit, and indeed without being very closely followed up. It is interesting to
observe, among the names of the Sikh Sirdars, who played this game of "diamond cut diamond"
with the Kashmirian, that of Ranjit Singh, afterwards the wily Egbert of the Panjab Heptarchy,
and the firm friend of Britain for nearly forty years.

This disastrous campaign occurred in the cold weather of 1778-79, and the victorious Panjabis
poured into the Upper Doab, which they forthwith began to plunder.

1779. — Meanwhile, Mirza Najaf Khan remained in contemptuous repose at Agra, only interrupted
by a short and successful dash at some Rajput malcontents, who had been stirred up, it is thought,
at the instigation of his rival Majad-ud-daulah. That inefficient but unscrupulous intriguer
is also shown by Captain Grant Duff to have been at the same time engaged in a correspondence
with Madhoji Sindhia, in view to joining, when once he should have gained possession of the
power of the Empire, in an attack on the British Provinces. Duff gives this story on the authority
of Sindhia's own letters, which that chief's grandson had placed in his hands; but he does
not say whether the fickle Emperor was or was not a party to this iniquitous conspiracy for
the ruin of his faithful servant and his long-established friends.

Certain it is that Sindhia was at that time very far from the statesmanlike views and reasonable
aims which he ultimately adopted. Towards the close of the year, indeed, he took the ill-judged
step of joining with Haidar Ali and the Nizam with the object of expelling the British from
every part of the Indian Continent. But Mr. Hastings soon disturbed the plans of the confederates
and ere long rendered them hopeless. Some were conquered by force of arms, others were conciliated;
and Sindhia in particular, received a lesson which made upon his sagacious mind a permanent
impression.

1780. — There was, in the country now known as Dholpur, between Agra and Gwalior, a local Jat
landholder who had in the decay of the Empire followed the example of Suraj Mal (of Bhurtpore)
and assumed independence. In 1771, when Shah Alam was returning to the throne of his ancestors,
Chatr Singh, the then Zemindar, advanced money to the Treasury, and was soon after created
a peer by the title of Maharaj Rana. Henceforth he figures in history as the "Rana of Gohad."
Having a hereditary feud against the Mahrattas and a hereditary claim, such as it was, to the
fortress of Gwalior, then in Sindhia's hands, he seemed to Hastings a useful instrument for
causing a diversion. Major Popham, one of the best of the local officers, was accordingly sent
to assist the Rana and stir up a confederation of Jat and Rajput powers to aid against the
Musalman-Mahratta alliance by which British interests were threatened. The situation of the
fort of Gwalior on a scarped and isolated rock over 200 feet high, need not here be more than
mentioned; the manner of its capture, however, cannot be too often referred to as an instance
of what resolution and conduct can effect in Asiatic warfare. Having prepared scaling ladders
in such secrecy that even his European officers were ignorant of what was being done or planned,
Popham sent a storming party of sepoys, backed by twenty Europeans, to a place at the foot
of the rock pointed out to him by some thieves. It was the night of the 3rd August, 1780, and
the party, under the command of Captain Bruce, were shod with cotton to render their approach
inaudible. The enemies' rounds were passing as they came near the spot; so the assaulting column
lay down and waited until the lights and voices had ceased; then the ladders were placed against
the cliff, and one of the robber guides mounting returned with intelligence that the guard
had gone to sleep. The next moment the first ladder was mounted by Lieutenant Cameron, the
engineer officer, and the others followed in silence, Captain Bruce having reached the rampart
with twenty sepoys, a scuffle ensued which lasted till Popham arrived with the Europeans and
made good the entrance. Thus was this strong place captured, and without the loss of one single
life on the British side. The fort was made over to the Rana, but he did not long retain it,
Sindhia having recaptured it. He soon afterwards took Gohad also (1784), and the descendants
of the Jat chief are now known as Ranas of Dholpur.

We have seen how marked a feature of the Emperor's character was his inability to resist the
pertinacious counsels of an adviser with whom he was in constant intercourse; and it is certain
that he gave Majad-ud-daulah all the support which his broken power and enfeebled will enabled
him to afford.

But the danger was now too close and too vast to allow of further weakness. The Emperor's eyes
seem to have been first opened by his army's evident confusion, as it returned to Dehli, and
by the prevaricating reports and explanations which he received from its commander. If Mirza
Jawan Bakht was the prince who had accompanied the ill-stared expedition, we know enough of
his prudence and loyalty to be sure that he would have done all in his power to make his father
see the matter in its true light; and what was wanting to his firm but dutiful remonstrances,
would be supplied by the cries of fugitive villagers and the smoke of plundered towns.

Najaf Khan was urgently summoned from Agra, and obeyed the call with an alacrity inspired by
his loyal heart, and perhaps also by a dignified desire for redress. As he approached the capita],
he was met by the Prince and the baffled Kashmirian. To the former he was respectful, but the
latter he instantly placed under arrest, and sent back under a strong guard. The fallen Minister
was confined, but in his own house; and the Mirza, on reaching Dehli, confiscated, on behalf
of the Imperial treasury, his wealth, stated to have amounted to the large sum (for those days)
of twenty lakhs, reserving nothing for himself but some books and a medicine chest. This was
the second time he had triumphed over an unworthy rival, and signalized his own noble temper
by so blending mercy with justice as has seldom been done by persons situated as he was. Abdul
Ahid Khan — or Majad-ud-daulah — was a fop, very delicate in his habits, and a curiosity-seeker
in the way of food and physic. It is said by the natives that he always had his table-rice
from Kashmir, and knew by the taste whether it was from the right field or not.

Fully restored to the Imperial favour, the Mirza lost no time in obeying the pressing behests
of his Sovereign, and sending an adequate force under his nephew, Mirza Shafi, to check the
invaders. Their army, which had been collected to meet the Imperialists, drew up and gave battle
near Meerut, within forty miles of the metropolis; but their unskilled energy proved no match
for the resolution of the Moghul veterans, and for the disciplined valour of the Europeanized
battalions. The Sikhs were defeated with the loss of their leader and 5,000 men, and at once
evacuated the country.

1780. — It cannot have escaped notice we have been here reviewing the career of one whose talents
and virtues merited a nobler arena than that on which they were displayed, and who would have
indeed distinguished himself in any age and country. Profiting by experience, the successful
Minister did not repeat the former blunder of retiring to Agra, where, moreover, his presence
was no longer required; but continued for the brief remainder of his life to reside in the
metropolis, and enjoy the fruit of his laborious career in the administration of the Empire,
to which he had restored something of its old importance. Mirza Shafi commanded the army in
the field; while Mohammad Beg, of Hamadan, was Governor of the Fort and District of Agra. Najaf
Khan himself was appointed Amir-ul-Umra (Premier Noble); his title, as it had long been, was
Zulfikar-ud-daulah — "Sword of State."

I have not thought it necessary to interrupt the narrative of the Mirza's successes by stopping
to notice the death of Sumroo. This event occurred at Agra on the 4th of May, 1778, as appears
from the Portuguese inscription upon his tombstone there. He appears to have been a man without
one redeeming quality —"stern and bloody-minded, in no degree remarkable for fidelity or devotion
to his employers" — the one essential virtue of a free lance. This character is cited from
the memoirs of Skinner, where it is also added that he cannot have been devoid of those qualities
which attach the soldiery to their officer. But even this becomes doubtful, when we find the
late Sir W. Sleeman (who was in the habit of moving about among the natives, and is an excellent
authority on matters of tradition), asserting that he was constantly under arrest, threatened,
tortured, and in danger at the hands of his men.

The force was maintained by his widow, and she was accordingly put in charge of the lands which
he had held for the same purpose.

This remarkable woman was the daughter (by a concubine) of a Mohamadan of Arab descent, settled
in the town of Kotana, a small place about thirty miles north-west of Meerut, and born about
1753. It is not certain when she first entered the family of Sumroo, but she did not become
his wife till some time afterwards. It has even been doubted if any formal marriage-ceremony
ever took place, for Sumroo had a wife living, though insane; and the fact was probably sufficiently
notorious to prevent any Catholic clergyman in that part of the country from celebrating a
bigamous alliance with the rites of the Church.

1781 .— At his death he left a son, baptized as "Aloysius," who was still in his minority;
and the Minister, observing the Begum's abilities, saw fit to place her in charge, as has been
already said. The ultimate result amply justified his choice. In 1781 — under what influence
is not recorded — she embraced Christianity, and was baptized, according to the ritual of the
Latin Church, by the name of Johanna. Her army is stated to have consisted, at this time, of
five battalions of Sepoys, about 300 Europeans, officers and gunners, with 40 pieces of cannon,
and a body of Moghul horse. She founded a Christian Mission, which grew by degrees into a convent,
a cathedral, and a college; and to this day there are some 1,500 native and Anglo-Indian Christians
resident at Sardhana.

1782. - On the 26th April died Mirza Najaf Khan, after a residence in India of about forty-two
years, so that he must have been aged at least sixty. He appears to have been an even greater
and better man than his predecessor, Najib-ud-daulah, over whom he had the advantage in point
of blood, being at once a descendant of the Arabian prophet, and a member of the Saffavi house,
which had been removed from the throne of Persia by the usurpation of Nadir Shah. Captain Scott
— who was a good scholar and well acquainted with Native politics, as Persian Secretary to
the Governor-General of British India — records of the Mirza that no one left his presence
dissatisfied. If he could grant a request he would, and that with a grace as if it pleased
him; if he could not, he could always convince the petitioner of his sorrow at being obliged
to refuse. The faulty side of him appears to have been a love of money, and (towards the last
part of his life, at least,) of pleasure. It will be seen in the sequel how soon his gains
were dissipated, and his house overthrown. At his death he wielded all the power of the Empire
which his energies and virtues had restored. He was Deputy Vazir of the absentee Viceroy of
Audh, and Commander-in-Chief of the army. He held the direct civil administration, with receipt
of the surplus revenues, agreeably to Eastern usages, of the province of Agra and the Jat territories,
together with the district of Alwar to the south-west and those portions of the Upper Doab
which he had not alienated in Jaidad. But he died without issue, and the division of his offices
and his estates became the subject of speedy contests, which finally overthrew the last fragments
of Moghul dominion or independence. The following notice of these transactions is chiefly founded
on a Memorial, drawn up and submitted to the British Governor at Lucknow in 1784, by the Shahzada
Jawan Bakht, of whom mention has been already made more than once, and who had, for the ten
years preceding the Emperor's return to Dehli, in '71, held the Regency under the title of
Jahandar Shah. After referring to the fact that Majad-ud-daulah (the title, it may be remembered,
of Abdul Ahid Khan) had been and still was in custody, but that an equerry of the Emperor's
procured the issue of patents confirming existing appointments, the Prince proceeds, — "The
morning after the Mirza's death, I saw the attendants on His Majesty were consulting to send
some persons to the house of the deceased, in order to calm disturbances; and at last the Wisdom
enlightening the world resolved on deputing me to effect that object. [I] having departed with
all speed, and given assurances to the afflicted, the friends of the departed had leisure to
wash and dress the body, and the clamour began to cease. After necessary preparation, I attended
the corpse to the Masjid, and the rites of Islam having been performed, sent it to the place
of interment, under the care of Afrasyab Khan, who was the cherished-in-the- bosom" (adopted)
"son" of the noble deceased; whose sister also regarded him as her adopted son.

"Afrasyab Khan soon became ambitious of the dignities and possessions of the deceased, and
the Begam (deceased's sister) petitioned his Majesty in his favour, with earnest entreaty;
but this proved disagreeable to the far-extending sight of the royal Wisdom, as Mirza Shaffi
Khan, who had a great army and considerable resources, looked to the succession, and would
never agree to be superseded in this manner, so that contentions would necessarily ensue."
There can be no doubt of the correctness of Shah Alam's views. Mirza Shaffi was the nearest
relative of the deceased, and in actual possession of the command of the army. He was thus
not merely the most eligible claimant, but the best able to support his claims. But the Emperor
— never, as we have seen, a man of much determination — was now enfeebled by years and by a
habit of giving way to importunity.

"Instigated," proceeds Jawan Bakht, "by female obstinacy, the Begam would not withdraw her
request, and her petition was at length, though reluctantly, honoured with compliance. The
khillat of Amir-ul-Omra and acting Minister was conferred upon Afrasyab by his Majesty, who
directed this menial (though he [the writer] was sensible of the ill-promise of the measure)
to write to Mirza Shaffi to hasten to the presence."

It is not quite clear whether the measure, to which this parenthesis represents the prince
as objecting, was the appointment of Afrasyab, or the summons to the Mirza. He was evidently
opposed to the former, who was a weak young man, devoid of resources either mental or material.
On the other hand, his own matured good sense should have shown him that no good consequences
could follow the temporizing policy which brought the rivals face to face at Court. Afrasyab's
first measure was to release the Kashmirian Ex-Minister Majad-ud-daulah (Abdul Ahid Khan) from
arrest, and by his recommendation this foolish and notorious traitor was once more received
into the Imperial favour. In the meanwhile, Mirza Shaffi arrived at Dehli, and took up his
quarters in the house of his deceased uncle, whose widow he conciliated by promising to marry
her daughter, his first cousin. A period of confusion ensued, which ended for the time in the
resignation of Afrasyab, who retired to his estate at Ajhir, leaving his interests at Court
to be attended to by Majad-ud-daulah and by the converted Rajput Najaf Kuli. Shortly! after
his departure, Mirza Shaffi surrounded the houses of these agents, and arrested Majad-ud-daulah
on the 11th September, 1782, and the Rajput on the following day, confining them in his aunt's
house under his own eye. The Prince upon this received orders to negotiate with the Mizra,
who was appointed to the office he had been so long endeavouring to compass. But Afrasyab Khan,
his absent competitor, had still allies at Court, and they succeeded in bringing over to his
cause M. Paoli, the commander of Begam Sumroo's Brigade, together with Latafat Khan, commandant
of the battalions that had been detached to the Imperial service by the Viceroy of Audh. This
took place a few days only after the arrest of the agents, and was almost immediately followed
by the desertion from Mirza Shaffi of the bulk of the army. The Emperor put himself at the
head of the troops, and proceeded to the Minister's house. Finding the premises had been evacuated
the Shah marched in triumph — not quite after the magnificent fashion of his ancestors — to
the Jamma Masjid, and Mirza Shaffi fled to Kosi, in the vicinity of Mathra, acting by the advice
of the prince, as the latter informs us. The army did not pursue the fugitive, and the latter
enlarged Majad-ud-daulah, who promised to intercede for him with the Emperor, and also made
a friend in Mohamad Beg of Hamadan, whom we have already met with as Governor of Agra.

1783. — While the Moghuls were disturbing and weakening the empire by these imbecile contentions,
Madhoji Sindhia, the Patel, was hovering afar off, like an eagle on the day of battle. His
position had just been greatly improved by the treaty of Salbai, an arrangement which was probably
the result of the spirited policy pursued by Hastings, of which the storming of Gwalior was
a specimen. Coote and Stuart too, in Madras, and Goddard in the Deccan, struck repeated blows
at the confederacy. Peace, too, was concluded between the French and English in India as in
Europe. Sindhia was one of the first to submit, and in 1782 acceded to that famous instrument,
in which the British authorities had recognized him as the representative chief of the Mahrattas,
the Peshwa being still a minor, and the ostensible head of the Regency, Nana Farnavis, being
a mere civilian, though otherwise an able man. The British Governor-General also, naturally
alarmed at what was going on, and foreseeing danger from the interposition of the Mahrattas,
with whom his Government had, till lately, been engaged in a deadly conflict, soon after sent
two officers to the Imperial Court, being the first English Embassy that had visited the city
of the Moghul since the memorable deputation from the infant Factory to the throne of Farokhsiar.

But before these officials could arrive, further complications had occurred; Mirza Shaffi returning
to Dehli, in company with Mohamad Beg, requested that his new opponents, Paoli and Latafat,
might be sent to them with authority to treat, and the application was granted, much against
the advice of the prince, who tells us that he proposed either that an immediate attack should
be made upon the rebels before they had time to consolidate their power, or else that they
should be summoned to the presence, and made to state their wishes there. To the envoys elect,
he observed that, even were the concession made of sending a deputation to treat with refractory
subjects, he would advise that only one should go at a time. "But," he continues, "as the designs
of Providence had weakened the ears of their understandings, an interview appeared to them
most advisable; - a mutual suspicion rendering each unwilling that one should go and the other
remain in camp, lest he who went should make his own terms without the other." What a glimpse
this gives of the dissolution of all that we are accustomed to call society! The two envoys
set out, but never returned: like the emissaries sent to the Jewish captain, as he drove furiously
along the plain of Esdraelon to ask, Is it peace? The European was slain at once, the Audh
general being imprisoned and deprived of sight. Mirza Shaffi and Mohamad Beg next began to
quarrel with each other. The Emperor was now much perplexed, but matters were arranged for
the time through the instrumentality of the prince and by the return of Afrasyab, who became
reconciled to his late competitor. The three nobles were presented with khillats (dresses of
honour) and Mirza Shaffi became Premier, under the title of Amir-ul-Umra, while Majad-ud-daulah
reverted to his ancient post of Intendant of the Home Revenues. We pursue the prince's narrative.

"It was at this period that much anxiety and melancholy intruding on the sacred mind of his
Majesty, the Asylum of the World, and also on the breast of this loyal servant," their attention
was turned towards the English alliance, which had been in abeyance for some years. On the
23rd of September, 1783, Mirza Shaffi, who had been to Agra, was shut out from the palace on
his return, probably owing to Afrasyab Khan's renewed desire to obtain the chief place in the
State. On this the Mirza retired to Agra again, and naturally adopted a hostile attitude, an
emissary was sent forth to treat with him, in the person of Mohamad Beg Hamadani. The meeting
took place in the open air in front of the main gate of the old Fort of Agra; and when the
elephants, upon which the two noblemen were seated, drew near to each other, the Mirza held
out his hand in greeting, when Mohamed Beg at once seized the opportunity, and pistolled him
under the arm. It is asserted, indeed, by some that the actual crime was perpetrated by the
attendant who occupied the back seat of the howdah; possibly Ismail Beg Khan, nephew of the
Hamadani.

Afrasyab, who had instigated this murder, profited by it, and succeeded to the post of his
ambition, while the mind of the prince became still more anxious, and still more bent upon
opening his case, if possible, in a personal interview with the English Governor.

Meanwhile, the envoys of the latter were not less urgent on their employer to support the Emperor
with an army. "The business of assisting the Shah" — thus they wrote in December, 1783 — "must
go on if we wish to be secure in India, or regarded as a nation of faith and honour." Mr. Hastings
was not deaf to these considerations, and subsequent events proved their entire soundness.
He desired to sustain the authority of the Empire, because he foresaw nothing from its dissolution
but an alternative between Chaos and the Mahrattas; and, but for the opposition of his council
in Calcutta, he would have interposed, and interposed after his fashion, with effect. Yet his
not doing so was afterwards made the ground of one of the charges (No. 18) against him, and
he was accused of having intrigued in the interest of Madhoji Sindhia, the Patel. That Mr.
Hastings, when overruled in his desire of anticipating Sindhia in Court influence at Dehli,
preferred seeing the latter succeed, rather than the Empire should fall a prey to complete
anarchy; that he "turned the circumstance to advantage" — to use Grant Duff's phrase — was
neither contrary to sound statesmanship, nor to the particular views of the British Government,
which was then occupied in completing the treaty of Salbai. Under this compact Central India
was pacified, and the Carnatic protected from the encroachments of the notorious Haidar Ali
Khan, and his son, the equally famous Tippu Sahib. It is important here to observe that the
Calcutta Gazettes of the day contain several notices of the progress of the Sikhs, and the
feeble opposition offered to them by the courtiers. All these things called for prompt action.

1781. — On the 27th March, the British Governor arrived at Lucknow, and Jawan Bakht resolved
to escape from the palace, and lay before him an account of Dehli politics, such as should
induce him to interpose. The design being communicated to his maternal uncle, a body of Gujars,
from the prince's estate, was posted on the opposite bank of the river, and everything fixed
for the 14th of April. About 8 P.M., having given out that he was indisposed, and on no account
to be disturbed, the prince disguised himself, and, secretly departing from his chamber in
the palace, passed from the roof of one building to the roof of another, until he reached the
aqueduct which crossed the garden of the palace. The night was stormy, and the prince was suffering
from fever, but he found a breach where the canal issued, by which he got to the rampart of
the Salimgarh. Here he descended by means of a rope, and joined his friends on the river sands;
and, with a considerable mixture of audacity and address, found means to elude the sentries
and get across the river. One trait is worth preserving, as illustrative of the characteristic
clemency of the house of Timur. "I believe," said the prince, in talking of this night's adventure
to Mr. Hastings, "I ought to have killed the guide who showed me where to ford the river; but
my conscience disapproved, and I let him go, preferring to trust myself to the care of Providence.
In effect, the man justified my suspicions, for he instantly went to the nearest guard and
gave him information of my route, as I learned soon after; but I made such speed that my pursuers
could not overtake me."

His Highness reached Lucknow, where he impressed all who met him with a highly favourable opinion
of his humanity, his intelligence, and his knowledge of affairs; but the only consolation he
received, either from the Viceroy or from Mr. Hastings, hampered as the latter was by the opposition
of his council, was the advice to turn to Madhoji Sindhia. Captain Jonathan Scott (who was
on Hastings' staff) says that the prince received an allowance of £40,000 a year from the British
Government (Scott's Ferishta, vol. ii. 242.)

In the meanwhile Mohamed Beg, who had returned to his old residence at Agra, continued to trouble
the repose of the new minister Afrasyab, so that he also turned to the redoubled Patel, and
this successful soldier who had barely escaped four-and-twenty years before from the slaughter
of Panipat, now found himself master of the situation. The movements of the Mahratta chief
began, indeed, to be all-important. They were thus noticed in the Calcutta Gazette for 18th
April: — "We learn that Sindhia is going on a hunting party. ... . We also learn that he will
march towards Bundelkund." He marched in the direction, as it proved, of Agra.

He sent an envoy to Lucknow to treat with the Governor-General, and proceeded in person to
Hindustan, proposing to meet the Emperor, who was on his way to dislodge Mohamad Beg from the
fort of Agra.

The Calcutta Gazette for May 10th says, "His Majesty has signified by letters to the Governor-General
and Sindhia that he will march towards Agra."

The Emperor's desire to put himself into the hands of Sindhia was very much increased by the
violent conduct of Afrasyab towards one who, whatever his faults, had endeared himself, by
long years' association, to the facile monarch. Majad-ud-daulah, the Finance Minister, having
attempted to dissuade his Majesty from going to Agra, the haughty Moghul sent Najaf Kuli Khan
with a sufficient force to Majad's house, and seizing him, with the whole of his property,
kept him in close arrest, in which he continued for the most part till his death, in 1788.

On his arrival, Sindhia had an interview with Afrasyab Khan, at which it was agreed to concert
a combined attack upon Mohamad Beg forthwith. Three days after, the minister was assassinated,
viz., 2nd November, 1784. The actual hand that struck this blow was that of Zain-ul-Abidin,
brother of Mirza Shaffi, who, no doubt, was not unwilling to have an opportunity of punishing
the supposed author of his uncle's murder; but there were not wanting those who, on the well-known
maxim, cui bono, attributed the instigation to Sindhia. Francklin records, on the authority
of one Said Raza Khan, that Zain-ul-Abidin found shelter with Sindhia immediately after the
murder, which was effected in the very tent of the victim. Rajah Himmat Bahadur (the Gosain
leader) at once proceeded to Sindhia's tent, accompanied by the chief Moghul nobles, where
all joined in congratulations and professions of service.

1785 — The latter, at all events, immediately stepped into the dead man's shoes, leaving the
title of Vazir to the Audh Viceroy; and contenting himself with the substance of authority.
Calling the Peshwa of Puna — the head of the Mahrattas — by the revived title of Plenipotentiary
of the Empire, formerly borne (it may be remembered) by the first Nizam, he professed to administer
as the Peshwa's deputy. He assumed with the command of the army, the direct management of the
provinces of Dehli and Agra, and allotted a monthly payment of sixty-five thousand rupees for
the personal expenses of Shah Alam. In order to meet these expenses, and at the same time to
satisfy himself and reward his followers, the Pate] had to cast about him for every available
pecuniary resource. Warren Hastings having now left India, the time may have been thought favourable
for claiming some contribution from the foreign possessors of the Eastern Subahs. Accordingly
we find in the Calcutta Gazette the following notice, under the date Thursday, 12th May, 1785: —

"We have authority to inform the public that on the 7th of this month the Governor-General
received from the Emperor Shah Alam and Maha Rajah Madagee Sindia an official and solemn disavowal,
under their respective seals, of demands which were transmitted by them, on Mr. Macpherson's
accession to the Government, for the former tribute from Bengal.

"The demands of the tribute were transmitted through Major Brown, and made immediately upon
his recall from the Court of Shah Alam, but without any communication of the subject to Mr.
Anderson.

"Mr. Anderson was immediately instructed to inform Sindhia that his interference in such demands
would be considered in the light of direct hostility, and a breach of our treaty with the Mahrattas;
and Shah Alam was to be informed that the justice of the English to his illustrous house could
never admit the interference or recommendation of other powers, and could alone flow from their
voluntary liberality.

"A disavowal of claims advanced unjustly and disrespectfully was insisted upon; and we are
authorized to declare that Mr. Anderson's conduct in obtaining that disavowal was open and
decided, highly honourable to him as a public minister. He acted in conformity to the orders
of Government even before he received them. He founded his remonstrances on a short letter
which he had received from the Governor-General, and upon circumstances which passed in the
presence of Sindhia, at Shah Alam's Darbar, as Major Brown was taking his leave.

"The effects which Mr. Anderson's remonstrance produced are very satisfactory and creditable
to Government, and such explanations have followed upon the part of Sindhia, as must eventually
strengthen our alliance with the Mahrattas, expose the designs of secret enemies, and secure
the general tranquillity of India."

The revolution begun by the Patel was soon completed. Zabita Khan died about this time; and
Mohamad Beg, being deserted by his troops, had no resource but to throw himself upon the mercy
of the Mahratta chief. The fort of Agra surrendered on the 27th of March, 1785; and all that
remained of the power of the Moghul party was the fort of Aligarh, where the widow and brother
of the late minister, Afrasyab Khan, still held out, in the hope of preserving the property
of the deceased, the bulk of which was stored there. This stronghold, which the late Najaf
Khan had wrested from the Jats, had been fortified with great care, and it had a strong garrison,
but, having held out from July to November, the Governor was at last prevailed upon, by the
entreaties of the ladies, to avert from them the horrors of a storm, and make terms with the
besiegers. The result of the capitulation was that the eldest son of the deceased Afrasyab
received an estate, yielding a yearly revenue of a lakh and a half of rupees. The rest of the
property — valued at a crore, a sum then corresponding to a million of money, but really representing
much more of our present currency — was seized by Sindhia.

The latter was now supreme in Hindustan; the disunited Moghul chiefs, one and all, acknowledged
his authority; and a Mahratta garrison, occupying the Red Castle of Shah Jahan, rendered the
Emperor little more than an honourable pageant. He joined, however, personally in all the operations
of 1785, and did not return to Dehli until the middle of the following year. Sindhia did not
at the time accompany him, but retired to his favourite cantonment of Mathra.

It has been already mentioned that there is little or nothing recorded of the condition of
the country or of the people by native historians. It must not, however, be thought that I
am satisfied with recording merely the dates of battles, or the biographies of prominent men.
On the contrary, the absence of information upon the subject of the condition of the nation
at large, is a great cause of regret and disappointment to me. A few particulars will be found
in the concluding chapter.

In 1783, when Afrasyab Khan was distracting the country by his ambitious attempts, occurred
a failure of the periodical rains, followed by one of those tremendous famines which form such
a fearful feature of Indian life. In Bengal, where the monsoon is regular, and the alluvial
soil moist, these things are almost as unknown as in England: but the arid plains of Hindustan,
basking at the feet of the vastest mountain-chain in the world, become a perfect desert, at
least once in every quarter of a century. The famine of 1783-4 has made a peculiarly deep impression
upon the popular mind, under the name of the "Chalisa," in reference to the Sambat date 1840,
of the era of Vikram Adit. An old Gosain, who had served under Himmat Bahadur, near Agra, once
told the author that flour sold near Agra that year 8 seers for the rupee; which, allowing
for the subsequent fall in the value of money, is perhaps equivalent to a rate of three seers
for our present rupee — a state of things partly conceivable by English readers, if they will
imagine the quartern loaf at four shillings, and butcher's meat in proportion.

These famines were greatly intensified by the want of hands for field-labour, that must have
been caused by the constant drafting of men to the armies, and by the massacre and rapine that
accompanied the chronic warfare of those times. The drain on the population, however, combined
with the absence of the tax-gatherer, must have given this state of things some sort of compensation
in the long run. Some few further particulars regarding the state of the country will be found
in the concluding chapter.

NOTE.—Besides the Mozafari, the principal authorities for this chapter have been Francklin's
"Shah Alum" (v. inf. p. 194) the narrative of the Shahzadah published by Warren Hastings and
the continuation of Ferishta by Captain Jonathan Scott. This gentleman has already been mentioned
(V. sup. p. 132), he was assisted in compiling his narrative by Maj. Polier, who was at Dehli
at the time. All these authorities are strictly original and contemporaneous; and in general
agree with each other. The Memoirs of Iradat Khan have also been consulted — a Dehli noble
of the period. A traditional account of the Famine by an "Old Resident" of Aligarh may not
be without interest. It is taken from the Dehli Gazette of 6th June, 1874. "As told by many
persons who witnessed it, the disastrous circumstance which occurred during Sindiah's rule
and prior to Du Boigne's administration known by the people as the 'Chaleesa Kaut,' the severe
famine of A.D. 1783 in a considerable degree desolated the country, and the many ruinous high
mounds still visible in the district owe their origin to this calamity. The inhabitants either
fell victims, or fled to other parts where they met a similar fate, for the famine was a general
one. It was described to me by those who lived then, that for the two previous years the rains
were very unfavourable, and the produce very scanty, the third year, A.D. 1783, the people
entertained strong hopes that the season would be a propitious one: but sad was their condition
when they found the rainy months, 'Assaur and Sawun, passing off with a scorching sun. In 'Bhadoon'
they had clouds but no rain, and when the calamity came, all hopes were gone the price of grain
was enormous and with difficulty it could be procured, thousands died of sheer starvation within
their walls and streets, and the native governments rendered no assistance to ameliorate or
relieve the wants of their unfortunate subjects. Children were left to go astray and find their
sustenance in the wild berries of the peepul, burrh, and goolur, and thus became an easy prey
to the wild beasts who in numbers roved round the country in open day, living on carcases.
About the middle of September or 'Kooar,' the rains fell, and so regularly that the grain which
was thrown in the fields in the two previous years and did not generate for want of moisture,
now came up profusely, and abundant was the produce. The state of things gradually changed
for the better in October and November. An old Brahmin of Secundra Rao narrated that some years
before 1810 the harvest was so plentiful that on the occasion he built a house which was on
a very high plinth: he filled the plinth instead of with mud with an inferior course of small
grain called 'kodun,' selling at that time uncommonly cheap, much lower than the cost of mud
would be; when the famine came he dug up the coarse grain, which was found good, and sold it,
and with the money he made his house a pucka one, besides gaining a large sum in coin."

CHAPTER V.

A.D. 1786-88.

1786. — The eldest son of the deceased chief of the Bawani Mahal was that Gholam Kadir, whom
we have seen already in the character of a captive and a page. It does not appear under what
circumstances he had recovered his liberty; but, on the death of Zabita Khan, he at once succeeded
to his estates, under the title of "Najib-ud-daulah Hoshyar Jang." As in the lower empire of
Byzantium, so in the present case, in proportion as the State crumbled, the titles of its unserviceable
supporters became more sonorous, until at last there was not a pillar of the ruinous fabric,
however weak and however disengaged from the rest of the body, but bore some inscription equally
"imposing" in both senses of the word. Daulah or Daulat means "The State," and the Musalman
nobles were called Arkan-i-Daulat — "Columns of the Commonwealth." Of these one was its Sword,
another its Asaph (the "Recorder" of David and Solomon), a third its Hero, and a fourth its
Shield. The young "Najib" Gholam Kadir Khan, was now the most prominent representative of the
Hindustani Afghans. Among the Moghuls the leading spirit was Mohamad Beg of Hamadan, for whom
the Patel provided employment by sending him with an army into Malwa, where he was for some
time occupied by the siege of Raghogarh. This was a very strong fort, held by a colony of Kachwaha
Rajputs since the times of Najaf Khan, and commanding one of the main roads between Hindustan
and the Mahratta country. It had resisted the Mahrattas when they first invaded Malwa, and
it was destined to resist Sindhia's successors almost down to our own times. It is now a peaceful
market town, and the traces of its former strength are all that it retains of a military character.

Sindhia's progress in the Doab was more rapid, nor was it long before Musalman jealousy began
to be aroused. The Patel opened negotiations with Mirza Jawan Bakht, having the object of inducing.
that prince to return to the capital; but from this he was strongly dissuaded by the Viceroy
Vazir, acting under the advice of Major Palmer, the British Resident at Lucknow. That gentleman
considered the interests of the Company and of the Vazir as deeply bound up in the fate of
the prince. Whilst he remained under their joint protection, the Mahratta usurpation must be
incomplete; should he fall into the power of the Patel, a permanent Mahratta occupation would
be established, which would be a serious danger indeed. Benvenuto
Cellini had been chiseled in gold pride in such a creation. Arabs bordering the Alhambra have also
stated that their best templates and no dressing exceeded in fineness, sumptuousness and ideals
to such a marvel of Christian art.
That a change began to come over the policy of the British in India about this time is well
known, however the English might strive to hide it from others — or even from themselves: see,
for instance, the following passage from the Calcutta Gazette for March 8th, 1787:-

"Though the Mussulmans dwindle into insignificance, we have nothing to apprehend from the Hindus.
Many have urged the necessity of upholding the influence of Moghuls to counterbalance the power
of Hindus; but this should seem bad policy, as we would causelessly become obnoxious, and involve
ourselves in the interests of a declining State, who are at the same time our secret enemy
and rivals."

The new Governor, likewise, further alarmed Sindhia by sending a minister to reside at the
Peshwa's Court at Punah, and the Patel anxiously set himself to work to consolidate his power
in Hindustan, so as to be ready for the storm, from whatever quarter it might break. Impressed
with the success which had attended his predecessor, Mirza Najaf, Sindhia's first care was
to organize a body of regular troops — a measure repugnant to the old politics of the Mahrattas,
but none the less approving itself to his judgment on that account.

The nucleus of this force was the corps raised and organized, in 1785, by Benoit de Boigne,
an officer whose history, as it forms an excellent illustration of the condition of Hindustan
in the latter part of the last century, will be given briefly in a note at the end of this
chapter. The General in command of Sindhia's forces was a Mahratta, named Appa Khandi Rao,
of whom we shall hereafter have occasion to make further mention.

In civil matters, the first step taken by the Patel was the sequestration of a number of the
Jaigirs of the Musalman nobles — a cause of discontent to the sufferers, and of alarm to the
remainder; but even this step had a military character, for the Jaigirs were fiefs bestowed
for military service, and their reduction formed part of the system under which he was endeavouring
to organize a standing army. With this view he at the same time recalled Mohamad Beg from the
siege of Raghogarh and attempted, vainly, to induce that Chief to disband his levies.

Amongst other unpopular measures must also be enumerated the removal of Raja Narayan Dass,
who had for some time been in charge of the Home Revenues, and who was replaced by Shah Nizam-ud-din,
a creature of Sindhia's. At the same time the Gosain leader, Himmat Bahadur, went into open
rebellion in Bundelkand, on being called upon to give an account of the management of his Jaigir,
a measure which he construed as portending resumption.

Nor was it an easy matter, at this particular juncture, to set about military reforms, for
the Rajputs, emboldened perhaps by the resistance of Raghogarh, now began to organize a combination,
which not only implied a considerable loss of power and of revenue, but likewise threatened
to cut off the Patel's communications with Punah. Raja Partab Singh (head of the Kachwahas,
and Dhiraj of Jaipur), called for the aid of the head of the Rathor clan, Maharaja Bijai Singh
of Jodhpur, who had married his daughter, and who adopted his cause with alacrity. Joined by
the Rana of Udaipur, and by other minor chiefs, the Rajput leaders found themselves at the
head of a force of 100,000 horse and foot, and 400 pieces of artillery, and with this array
they took post at Lalsot, a town forty-three miles east from Jaipur, and there awaited the
attack of the Imperial forces, with the more confidence that they were aware of the growing
disaffection of the Moghul nobles.

Here they were encountered at the end of May, 1787, by an enormous force under Sindhia in person,
with Ambaji Inglia, Appa Khandi, M. de Boigne, and other trusty lieutenants. The Moghul horse
and the regular infantry in the Imperial service were under the general direction of Mohamad
Beg and his nephew. The latter, a young man who will play a conspicuous part in the succeeding
pages, was named Ismail Beg, and was the son of Nahim Beg, who had accompanied his brother
Mohamad from Hamadan, the two attaching themselves to their Persian countryman, Mirza Najaf,
during that minister's later prosperity. Ismail Beg had married his uncle's daughter, and was
a person of great spirit, though not, as it would seem, of much judgment or principle.

The battle, as described by Native history, began by a reconnaisance of Ismail Beg at the head
of 300 Moghul horse. A large body of Rajput horse made way before him, but the Mahrattas not
following up, and nearly half his men being slain, he was forced to retreat to his uncle's
division. This terminated the fighting for that day, but the next morning Ismail renewed the
fight, leading on his artillery on foot, and followed by his uncle on an elephant with the
rest of the corps. They were throughout the day engaged with the bulk of the Rajput army, but
a heavy storm arose from the westward, as evening came on. The Mahrattas, having been in the
meantime severely handled by a body of Rajput swordsmen mad with opium, the battle degenerated
into a cannonade, at long ranges and at fitful intervals. Suddenly a chance round-shot dropped
into the Moghul ranks, which, after overthrowing two horsemen, made a bound and struck Mohamad
Beg on the right arm. He fell from his elephant, and, coming in contact with a small stack
of branches of trees that had been piled at hand for the elephants' fodder, received a splinter
in his temple which proved instantly mortal. Ismail, hearing of this event, exclaimed, "I am
now the leader!" and immediately addressed the troops, and concluded the action for that day
with a brisk cannonade. The next day (the 1st of June, and the third of this protracted engagement)
both sides continued to fight till towards evening, when a body of some 14,000 infantry surrounded
Sindhia's tents and clamorously demanded an issue of pay — very probably in arrear — and sent
a message at the same time to the Jaipur Raja, offering to join him on receipt of two lakes
of rupees. The Raja readily accepting these terms, the battalions joined his camp and received
their money on the spot.

Meanwhile, such was the distress in the Moghul-Mahratta camp, isolated, at it was, in an enemy's
country, that wheat was selling at four seers the Rupee, and there was every prospect of the
scarcity increasing; while the countless camp-followers of the Rajputs were engaged in nightly
depredations, stealing the elephants and horses from the midst of the sentries. Under these
circumstances, the Patel broke up his quarters the next evening, and fell back upon Alwar,
whence Ismail Beg marched off without leave towards Agra, taking with him 1,000 horse, four
battalions, and six guns. Sindhia, justly regarding this as an open act of defection, instantly
made terms with Ranjit Singh, the leader of the Jats, and pushed on all his forces to the pursuit,
at the same time throwing a strong reinforcement into the fort of Agra, the garrison of which
was placed under the command of Lakwa Dada, one of his best officers.

The following version of the affair appears in the Calcutta Gazette: —

"Reports are various respecting the particulars of an engagement between Scindia and the Rajahs
of Joynaghur and Jeypore; it is certain a very bloody battle was fought near Joynaghur about
the end of last month, in which, though the enemy were repulsed in their attack on his advanced
body by Scindia's troops, with much gallantry, they were ultimately in a great measure victorious,
as Scindia lost a part of his artillery during the engagement, which was long and obstinate,
and in which upwards of 2,000 men were killed on either side. Both armies, however, still kept
the field. Among the chiefs of note who fell on the part of Scindia, is Ajeet Roy. On that
of the Joynaghur Rajah, is Mohamed Beg Humdanee, a very celebrated commander, much regretted
by that party, and, but for whose loss, it is said that the Mahrattas would have been totally
defeated. Several of Scindia's battalions, with a considerable corps of artillery, went over
to the enemy on the 1st instant, but the intelligence we have yet received does not enable
us to account for this revolt."

Francklin says, in general terms, that Mohamad Beg went over at the commencement of the action,
and that it was Partab Singh who conferred the command of the Moghuls upon Ismail Beg. But
Partab Singh would have no voice in such a matter, and Francklin inconsistently adds that the
trained battalions of the late Afrasyab's force went over later in the day. Where no authorities
are given, it is inevitable that we should judge for ourselves. And, after all, the point is
not of much importance. It is, however, pretty clear that the Moghul nobles were grievously
discontented; that their discontents were known to the Rajputs before they provoked a collision;
and that the latter were joined by them as soon as a likelihood appeared of Sindhia's being
defeated.

General de Boigne used to relate that this was the hour of Sindhia's moral greatness. He made
vast efforts to conciliate the Jats, appealing to the Thakur's rustic vanity by costly presents,
while he propitiated the feeling of the Bhartpur army, and the patriotism of the country at
large, by restoring to the Jats the fortress of Dig, which had been held for the Emperor ever
since its conquest by Najaf Khan. He likewise placed his siege-train in the charge of his new
allies, who stored it in their chief fort of Bhartpur. At the same time he wrote letters to
Poona, earnestly urging a general combination for the good cause.

Ismail Beg, on his part was not idle. His first effort was to procure the co-operation of the
Rajputs, and had they not been too proud or too indolent to combine actively with him, it is
possible that Mahratta influence might have been again overthrown, and the comparatively glorious
days of Mirza Najaf Khan renewed in the Empire of Hindostan. A fresh associate, too, in these
designs are now to appear upon the scene, which, for a brief but terrible period, he was soon
after to fill. This was Gholam Kadir, who hastened from Ghausgarh to join in the resuscitation
of Mohamadan interests, and to share in the gains. The Emperor, moreover, was known to be in
private correspondence with the Rajput chiefs, who shortly after this inflicted another defeat
on the Mahrattas under Ambaji.

Unable to resist this combination, Sindhia fell back upon Gwalior, and Ismail Beg hotly pressed
the siege of Agra.

Towards the end of the rainy season of 1787, Gholam Kadir approached Dehli, and encamped on
the Shahdara side of the river, his object at this time being, in all probability, a renewal
of his father's claims, and attempts to obtain the dignity of Amir-ul-Umra or Premier Noble.
He is always understood to have been acting under the direction of Manzur Ali Khan, Controller
of the Imperial Household, who thought to secure a valuable support for the cause of Islam
by introducing the young Pathan chief into the administration. The Mahratta garrison was commanded
by a son-in-law of the Patel, known in Musalman History as the Desmukh — which is interpreted
"Collector of Land Revenue," — and by a member of the Imperial Household, on whom, from some
unexplained reason, had been bestowed the title of the great Aulia Saint Shah Nizam-ud-din,
and who had lately been placed in charge of the Home Revenues, as stated above (p. 152.) These
officers immediately opened fire from the guns on the riverside of the fort, and the young
Rohilla replied from the opposite bank. At the same time, however, he did not fail to employ
the usual Eastern application of war's sinews; and the Moghul soldiers of the small force being
corrupted, the Mahrattas made but a feeble resistance. Gholam Kadir crossed the river, and
the Imperial officers fled to the Jat Fort of Balamgarh, leaving their camp and private effects
to the mercy of the victor.

It need hardly be observed that the firing on the palace was an act of gross disrespect, and,
unless explained, of rebellion. Nor was the young chief blind to the importance of basing his
proceedings on an appearance of regularity. He accordingly entered into a correspondence with
the above mentioned Manzur Ali (a nominee, it may be remembered, of the late Mirza Najaf Khan).
By the agency of this official, Gholam Kadir was introduced to the Diwan Khas, where he presented
a Nazar of five gold mohurs, and was graciously received. He excused his apparent violence
by attributing it to zeal for the service of his Majesty, formally applied for the patent of
Amir-ul-Umra, and with professions of implicit obedience withdrew to cultivate the acquaintance
of the courtiers, retiring at night to his own camp. Matters remained in this condition for
two or three days, when Gholam Kadir, impatient perhaps at the non-occurrence of any circumstance
which might advance his designs, re-entered the Palace with seventy or eighty troopers, and
took up his abode in the quarters usually occupied by the Amir-ul-Umra.

Meanwhile, Begam Sumroo, who was with her forces operating against a fresh rising of the Cis-Satlaj
Sikhs, hastened from Panipat and presented herself in the palace. Awed by this loyal lady and
her European officers, and finding the Moghul courtiers unwilling to enter into any combination
against them, the baffled Rohilla retired across the river, and remained for some time quiet
in his camp. Francklin, indeed, states that the cannonade was renewed immediately on Gholam
Kadir's return to his camp; but it is more probable that, as stated above, this renewal did
not occur until the arrival of Najaf Kuli Khan. The Emperor showed on this occasion some sparks
of the temper of old time, before misfortune and sensual indulgence had demoralized his nature.
He sent Moghul chiefs to keep an eye on the Pathan, while he increased his household troops
by a levy of 6,000 horse, for the pay of whom he melted a quantity of his personal plate. He
also despatched messengers to the converted Rathor, Najaf Kuli Khan, who was on his estate
at Rewari, urging his immediate attendance in Dehli.

Rewari is in what is now the district of Gurgaon, and lies about fifty miles S.W. of Dehli.
It is a country of mixed mountain and valley; the former being a table-land of primitive rocks,
the latter the sandy meadow land on the right bank of the river Jamna. Here, in a district
wrested by his former patron from the Jats, Najaf Kuli had been employed in endeavours to subjugate
the indigenous population of Mewatis, a race professing Islam like himself, but mixing it with
many degrading superstitions, and resembling their neighbours the Minas of Rajputana and the
Bhattis of Hariana in habits of vagrancy and lawlessness, which above half a century of British
administration has even now failed to eradicate.

Najaf Kuli Khan obeyed the Imperial summons, and reached Dehli, where he encamped close to
the Begam Sumroo, in front of the main gate of the Palace, on the 17th November, 1787. The
general command of the Imperial troops was conferred upon the Emperor's second son, Mirza Akbar,
who, since the flight of his elder brother, had been considered as heir apparent, and who now
received a khillat of seven pieces. The son of a Hindu official, named Ram Rattan, was appointed
the Prince's deputy (although he was by descent nothing but a modi or "chandler"); and a cannonade
was opened on the camp of Gholam Kadir, who replied by sending round shot into the palace itself,
some of which fell on the Diwan Khas.

Sindhia's conduct at this juncture has never been explained. He was himself at Gwalior, and
his army under Lakwa Dada, shut up in the fort of Agra, was defending itself as well as it
might against the forces under Ismail Beg. At the same time the author of the Tarikh-i-Mazafari
assures us that Ambaji Inglia — one of Sindhia's most trusty lieutenants, arrived in Dehli
with a small force, and that his arrival was the signal for a reconciliation between the Emperor's
principal adherents and Gholam Kadir, who was then introduced to the presence, and invested
with the dignity of Premier Noble (Shah Alam himself binding upon his head the jewelled fillet
called Dastar-u-Goshwara). It is probable that a compromise was effected, in which Gholam Kadir,
by receiving the desired office at the hands of the Mahratta minister, was supposed to have
acknowledged the supremacy of the latter. The whole story is perplexing. When cannonaded, the
Pathan chief suddenly appears within the palace; when Sindhia's troops arrive, he receives
the investiture that he was seeking in opposition to Sindhia; and at the moment of success
he marches off to Aligarh. This latter movement is, however, accounted for by Francklin, who
attributes it to the news of Prince Jawan Bakht being at hand with the forces of Himmat Bahadur,
who had joined the cause of Ismail Beg. At all events, if Gholam Kadir owed this sudden improvement
in his position to the good offices of the man whose garrison he had so lately chased from
Dehli, he did not evince his gratitude in a form that could have been expected; for he lost
no time in marching against Sindhia's late conquest of Aligarh, which fort almost immediately
fell into his hands. He then proceeded to join his forces to those of Ismail Beg, before Agra;
and remained for some months assisting at the siege of that fort; these operations being subject
to constant annoyance from the Jats, and from the troops of Sindhia, who finally crossed the
Chambal at the end of the cold season of 1787, having received large reinforcements from the
Deccan. Ismail Beg and Gholam Kadir immediately raised the siege of Agra, turned upon the advancing
army, and an obstinate battle took place at Chaksana, eleven miles from Bhartpur, on the 24th
April. The particulars of this action are not given by the native historian, whom I here follow,
but they are detailed by Grant Duff, who probably had them from General de Boigne, who was
present at the action, and with whom that writer had frequent conversations at Chamberi after
the General's retirement to his native country. The Mahratta army was commanded by Rana Khan,
a man who, having in the capacity of a water-carrier been the means of assisting Sindhia to
escape from the carnage of Panipat in 1761, had been much protected by him; and being otherwise
a man of merit, was now become one of the chief officers of the army. Besides M. de Boigne
there was another French officer present, whose name is given by Duff as Listeneaux, perhaps
a mistake for some such word as Lestonneaux. John Hessing was also in this campaign, as may
be gathered from the epitaph on his tomb, which is close to that of Sumroo at Agra. (See Appendix.)
The Musalman leaders fought well, Gholam Kadir threw himself upon the infantry of the right
wing, and broke them. Ismail Beg with all the impetuosity of his character vigorously attacked
the battalions of M. de Boigne, but was received with sang froid and resolution. The Mahratta
horse supported the infantry fairly, but were overmatched for such severe duty by the weight
of the Moghul cavalry and their superior discipline. It is probable, however, that the infantry,
formed and led by Europeans, would have been more than a match for all their attempts, had
not three of the battalions deserted and joined the enemy, while the Jat cavalry failed to
sustain the efforts of the remaining sepoys. The army of Rana Khan, under these circumstances,
withdrew under cover of night to Bhartpur; and Ismail Beg renewed the siege of Agra, while
Gholam Kadir moved northward in order to protect his own possessions from an incursion of the
Sikhs, with which he was then just threatened.

While these transactions were going on to the south and south-east of the capital, the Emperor
had been occupied by a campaign which he conducted personally in the west, and which might
have given Sindhia much anxiety had it been directed by a more efficient leader. As events
turned, this expedition is chiefly remarkable as being the last faint image of the once splendid
operations of the great military monarchy of Akbar and of Aurangzeb.

At the end of 1787, and probably in consequence of Ismail Beg's attempts to secure the co-operation
of the Rajputs, an embassy from Jodhpur had presented itself at the Court of Shah Alam, bearing
a handsome nazar (gift of homage or respect) and a golden key. The envoy explained that he
was instructed by his master Bijai Singh, the Rathor leader, to present this, the key of the
Fort of Ajmir, in token of his wish that an Imperial army under his Majesty in person might
march thither and take possession of that country; adding that Partab Sing, the Kachwaha Dhiraj
of Jaipur joined in the application.

It seems plain that principle and prudence should have combined to deter the Emperor from consenting
to this invitation, whereby he took an active step of hostility towards Sindhia, his minister,
and at this time perhaps his most powerful and best disposed supporter. But the dream of a
Musalman restoration, even with Hindu aid, will always have a fascination for the sons of Islam;
and the weak Shah Alam adopted the proposal with an alacrity such as he had not shown for many
years. On the 5th of January, 1788, he marched from Dehli, accompanied by several of the princes
and princesses of his family. From the fact of Mirza Akbar continuing to be regarded as heir
apparent, and from some other considerations, it may be gathered that the last attempt of Jawan
Bakht in the Emperor's favour, and its eventual defeat, must have already taken place; for
such is the confused manner in which these events are related by my authorities — some leaving
out one part, and some another, while the dates shine few and far, like stars in a stormy night
— that the relative position of events is sometimes left entirely open to conjecture. But it
is certain that the excellent prince whom we have heretofore encountered more than once, did
about this time make his appearance at the capital, with a small contingent supplied him by
the Viceroy of Audh, adding to his force such irregular troops as he was able to raise upon
the way; and that on this occasion it was that he addressed to George III. of Britain the touching
yet manly appeal from which I make the following extract: — "Notwithstanding the wholesome
advice given from the throne to Sindhia, to conciliate the attachment of the ancient nobility,
and to extend protection to the distressed peasantry, that ungrateful chief, regardless of
the royal will, has established himself in continued and unvaried opposition; until he, having
by his oppressions exasperated the Rajas and Princes of the Empire, particularly the most illustrious
prince of Jainagar, Raja Partab Singh, as likewise the ruler of Jodhpur, both of whom are allied
by blood to our family, these chiefs united to chastise the oppressor, gave him battle, and
defeated him; but the machinations of the rebellious increased. On one side, Gholam Kadir Khan
(son of the detested Afghan Zabita Khan) has raised the standard of rebellion. His example
having encouraged others, the disturbance became so formidable as to penetrate even to the
threshold of the Imperial palace; so that our august parent was compelled to make use of the
most strenuous exertions."

This statement of the condition of the Empire is interesting, as being given by a contemporary
writer in all respects the best able to judge. He concludes by an urgent appeal to the British
monarch for assistance "to restore the royal authority, punish the rebellious and re-establish
the house of Timur, and, by this kind interposition, to give repose to the people of God, and
render his name renowned among the princes of the earth."

Among the pressing disturbances noted by the prince was undoubtedly the defection of Najaf
Kuli Khan, whom we have lately seen combined with the Begam in the protection of the Emperor
against the insults of Gholam Kadir, but who had since gone into open rebellion, upon an attempt
made by the faction in temporary power to supplant him in his government by one Murad Beg.
This Moghul officer having been put in charge of some part of the convert's territorial holding,
the latter not unnaturally regarded the act as a menace to his whole power, waylaid the Moghul
on his way to his new post, and put him in confinement at Rewari.

But the men who had given the advice which led to this misfortune did not stop there, but proceeded
to strike at the prince himself, whom they accused to the Emperor of designs upon the throne.
He obtained however the titular office of Governor of Agra, and seriously attempted, with the
aid of Ismail Beg, to obtain possession of the fort and province. Foiled in this, and escaping
narrowly an attempt upon his person by Gholam Kadir, he ultimately retired to the protection
of the British at Benares, where he died a mortified and heartbroken man on the 31st May, in
the eventful year 1788. It is not quite clear, from the records of these transactions, why
the prince, experienced statesman as he was, attempted to ally himself to those Musalman malcontents
rather than to the Mahratta Chief, whose ability and resources must have been well known to
him. It must, however, be admitted that Sindhia was just then showing an inaction which was
calculated to arouse Jawan Bakht's suspicions, and we can trace, in the letter quoted a short
time back, signs of hostility in his mind against that wily politician. Idle as the speculation
may now appear, it is difficult to refrain from a passing thought on the manner in which his
choice of associates affected the fate not merely of his royal Father, but of Hindustan and
the British power there. United with Sindhia he would in all probability have drawn off Gholam
Kadir and changed the whole fortunes of the country. Dis aliter visum.

The prince, who was known to the English as Jahandar Shah, is described as "an accomplished
gentleman, irreproachable in his private character, constant, humane, and benevolent" (Francklin,
p. 162). He was about forty at the time of his death which was caused by a fit, and is narrated
in detail at p. 256 of the selections from the Calcutta Gazettes, in a manner somewhat more
minute than that of Francklin, whose account (taken as usual from Raza Khan) appears inaccurate
as well as incomplete.

Unattended therefore by this, his best and nearest friend, the poor old Emperor began his march
to the westward. On the way it appeared well to take the opportunity of reducing Najaf Kuli,
who, confident in his stronghold of Gokalgarh, would make no submission unless he were appointed
premier. As we know that the Controller Manzur Ali, who was at present all-powerful, was in
favour of the claims of Gholam Kadir, we may suppose that these terms were rejected with scorn,
and the trenches were accordingly opened and the fort invested. The Emperor's army on this
occasion consisted, according to Francklin, of some battalions of half-drilled infantry (called
Najibs), the body guard, called the "Red Battalion," a very considerable body of Moghul horse,
and three disciplined regiments which had been raised and drilled by the deceased Sumroo, and
now with a detail of artillery and about two hundred European gunners, served under the well-known
Begam; with these forces Shah Alam sate down before Gokalgarh. On the 5th April, 1788, the
besieged made a vigorous sally, and charged close up to the tents of the Emperor. Such was
the unprepared state of the royal camp, that the whole family were in imminent danger of being
killed or captured; the imperial army was already in commotion, when, at this moment, three
battalions of the Begam's Sepoys and a field piece dashed up, under the command of her chief
officer Mr. Thomas. The infantry deployed with the gun in the centre, and threw in a brisk
fire of musketry and grape, which checked the sortie, and gave the Imperialists time to form.
The Moghul horse lost their leader: on the other side the Chela (adopted son) of the chief
was shot dead; Himmat Bahadur, at the head of his Gosains (a kind of fighting friars who were
then beginning to be found useful as mercenaries), delivered a frantic charge, in which they
lost 200 men; and Najaf Kuli was finally driven in with the loss of his field-guns. He soon
after opened negotiations through the inevitable Manzur Ali; and, the Begam Sumroo joining
in his favour, he was admitted to the presence and fully pardoned. In the same Darbar, the
Begam was publicly thanked for her services, and proclaimed the Emperor's daughter, under the
title of Zeb-un-Nissa — "Ornament of her sex."

The expedition, however, exhausted itself in this small triumph. Whether from mistrust of the
Rajputs, or from fear of Sindhia, who was just then hovering about Bhartpur, the Emperor was
induced to turn back on the 15th April, and reached the capital by a forced march of twenty-four
hours, accompanied by Himmat Bahadur. The Begam retired to Sirdhana, and Gholam Kadir and Ismail
Beg parted, as we have already seen, after the indecisive action of Chaksana, a few days later.
Though disappointed in their hopes of aid from Dehli, the Rajput chiefs fought on, and the
tide of Sindhia's fortunes seemed to ebb apace. After the last-named fight he had fallen back
upon Alwar, but only, to be encountered by Partab Singh, the Kachwaha prince, of Jaipur, who
drove him back once more upon Agra. Here Ismail Beg met him again and chased him across the
Chambal. Meanwhile Ambaji Inglia was prevented from rendering aid to his master by the persistence
of the Rathors of Jodhpur, who put him to flight after an obstinate engagement. Thus cut off,
Sindhia remained under the friendly protection of the Chambal until the month of June, when
Rana Khan joined him with a fresh body of troops that he had received from the Deccan. Thus
reinforced Sindhia once more marched to the relief of his gallant follower Lakwa Dada, who
still held out in the Fort of Agra. The attack was made on this occasion from the eastward,
near the famous ruins of Fatihpur-Sikri, and was met by Ismail Beg with one of his furious
cavalry charges. De Boigne's infantry and artillery however repulsed him, before Gholam Kadir,
who was returning to the Moghul's aid, had been able to cross his forces over the Jamna, or
effect a junction. Ismail Beg, who was severely wounded, did not hesitate to plunge his horse
into the stream, swollen and widened as it was by the melting of the Himalayan snows. The Mahrattas,
satisfied with having raised the siege, did not pursue him, and the two Mohammadan chiefs once
more united their forces at Firozabad. Francklin (who very seldom gives a date) says that this
final battle took place on the 22nd August. He also states that Gholam Kadir had already joined
Ismail Beg, but drew off on the approach of the Mahratta army. The former statement is easily
seen to be erroneous, as both the noblemen in question were in a very different scene in August
of that year. The latter is possible, but the weight of authorities, Mahratta and Musalman,
is in favour of the account given above. Francklin carelessly adds: — "Agra surrendered," the
fact being that the gallant governor Lakwa Dada was a brother officer of Rana Khan's, and his
relief had been the object of the battle. About this time de Boigne retired from Sindhia's
employ and went to Lucknow, where he entered into a business partnership with the famous Claude
Martine, or Martin. Whether this step was caused by weariness, by doubts of ultimate success,
or by hopes of more material advantage, is not known. But the immediate consequence that followed
was, that the Patel went into cantonments at Mathra, and remained there watching events throughout
the whole of that eventful autumn.

There is reason to believe that Gholam Kadir — whether from avarice, from ambition, from a
desire to avenge some personal injury, or from a combination of any two or of the whole of
these motives — had by this time formed a project, vague perhaps at first, of repeating the
career of crime with which Ghazi-ud-din had startled Asia nearly thirty years before. Meantime
he spoke Ismail fair, seeing in him a chief, worsted indeed for the moment, but a rallying-point
for the Moghuls, on account as much of his proved valour as his high birth; one who would be
alike useful as a friend, and dangerous as a foe. He accordingly explained, as best he could,
his late defection, and persuaded the simple soldier to lose no time in collecting his scattered
forces for an attack upon the capital. No sooner had the Beg left for this purpose, than Gholam
Kadir also departed, and proceeding to Dehli renewed his hypocritical professions of loyalty
through the instrumentality of Manzur Ali Khan.

He asserted that Ismail Beg, who had arrived before him, and who now joined forces with him,
was like himself actuated by the sole desire to save the Empire from the usurpations of the
Mahratta chief; and, as far as the Beg was concerned, these professions were possibly not without
foundation. At present the conduct of both leaders was perfectly respectful. In the meantime
a small force was sent to Dehli by Sindhia and entered the palace, upon which the confederates,
whose strength was not yet fully recruited, retired to their former encamping ground at Shahdara
— the scene, it may be remembered, of Surajmal's fall in the days of Najib-ud-daulah. In this
situation the confederates began to be straitened for provisions, for it was now the month
of July, and the stock of winter crops, exhausted as were the agriculturists by years of suffering
and uncertainty, was running low, whilst the lawless character of the young Pathan and his
Rohillas was not such as to encourage the presence of many grain-dealers in their camp. Desertions
began to take place, and Gholam Kadir prepared for the worst by sending off his heavy baggage
to Ghausgarh. He and his companions renewed to the Emperor their messages of encouragement
in the project of throwing off the yoke of Sindhia; but the Emperor, situated as he was, naturally
returned for answer, "That his inclinations did not lie that way." Shah Alam was sustained
in this firm line of conduct by the presence of the Mahratta troops under Himmat Bahadur, and
by the ostensible support of Gul Mohammad, Badal Beg Khan, Sulaiman Beg, and other Moghul courtiers
whom he believed to be faithful; and it seemed for the moment as if the confederates' cause
was lost.

Thus pressed, these desperate men at length dropped all disguise and opened fire on the palace
with all their heavy guns. The Emperor on this invited the aid of his Mahratta minister, who
was now at Mathra, only a week's hard marching from the capital. It was Madhoji Sindhia's undoubted
duty to have hastened to the relief of him whom he professed to serve; but it must be admitted
that the instances he had already witnessed of Shah Alam's want of resolution and of good faith
may have furnished the minister with some excuse for wishing to read him a severe lesson. He
had also had sufficient taste of the fighting powers of the Musalmans to lead him to avoid
a general engagement as long as possible, since every day would increase the probability of
their quarrelling if left to themselves, while external attacks would only drive them to cohere.

Sindhia accordingly pursued a middle path. Our Moorish
philosophy, asceticism, or whatever you want to call it, gives himself this magnanimous indifference
so deplored by economists and politicians, and so applauded by another class of thinkers who
look at things from the top. Travel, yes, for pleasure, the elegant and dreamers, swimmers from
fans and lovers of nature, but precisely on that date, this lineage of Madrid and was returning
to the banks of the Manzanares, or, rather, to hydrants del Lozoya .-- In addition, that day
was Tuesday, and Tuesday barely dispatches a ticket in our railways, by that which you embark
on a Tuesday or or get married, because I have moved with me always to prefer to travel on Tuesdays,
it will a looser in the train or diligence. And if I can combine it is Tuesday and day 13,
the better!

That's the play we took it we decided that night by operation of law ..... I mean, we owned a reserved
eight seats, four people gave two seats each, with a corresponding corner of a head and head
.-- We sleep, then immediately the train started up (as we were in dire need the rest of our haste
the day, and also to whet your dream and providing rest, to account for the early mornings and
other hardships resulting to an artistic and poetic delivery ground chickpeas), and spent much
time sleeping.

* * *

At three o'clock in the morning we woke up hungry.

We were in Sanchidrián, to twenty-five leagues from Madrid, on the
other side of the Cordillera Guadarrama.

Well we had behaved! Five hours of sleep at a stretch!

For them, we just heard, at noon thing, one of those intervals of semi- which is the sleeper train
at every stop, the discordant cries that a poor woman (Which alone
would be awake at that hour in that rough saw) proclaimed throughout
the row of cars, "milk the Navas!", without any noise continue demonstration
that the unfortunate night owl dispatched something .....

That is,
we had passed through El Escorial, by the above Navas (God bless)
by Avila, and several other small towns and large, without us even
aware of it .-- Who Don told him Felipe II when the building what
was called the eighth wonder!

Who said there would come a time when there crossed people with closed eyes as lovers of art
and history as we do!

But what a lot if we had gone with equal indifference the formidable Sierra de Guadarrama (Which
is somewhat larger than the Monasterio del Escorial), going unconscious,
not only front of their tops, but in their very same womb, the cradle
of metals by the office of earthquakes in the regions of hell?

* * *

Sanchidrián said that we were, and the sting of hunger had roused us.

The same boy who knew the route by which station particularly we were (as nobody had bothered to vocearla),
we also participated, motu proprio, the thermometer the telegraph
marked at that moment six degrees below zero.

Hear us, and lower the window glass, all was a single thing! Fact which transform the car into
an inn, and dined quietly, profuse and pleasing, that for that announced we had on board the basket
of provisions, that nothing was missing in profile, then groceries to more than good law, containing
bottles of water and wine bottles, coffee himself Aden and machine
to do it, lighting candles that guiorno, and many other refinements
of sybaritic and comfort that not even conceived by the ancient Roman
emperors.

After dinner, we were unable to return to sleep .-- We, therefore,
happy conversation about an hour until, about five in the morning
(ie still with stars) we arrived at the station Medina del Campo.

Medina! Stop and catering!

Change of train passengers to Zamora and Salamanca! - Cried The youth
of the Station.

- Go to an inn and an untimely stop! - We exclaim
with a sigh.

And we went to collect our belongings.

III

EN MEDINA DEL CAMPO

Travelers who go to Salamanca in railroad, have to wait in the station Medina (for an hour!)
for the train that runs solely between these two We charge .-- illustrious cities, then, with
all of our furnishings, and cast ashore standing on the platform, adhering to the high and incomprehensible
designs of the companies, which have not seen fit save to travelers this time of detention.

As
it was still dark, as already stated, and did all the cold that we
were told in Sanchidrián we had to take refuge, like the rest of the
travelers (about thirty natural those nearby) in the tiny cafe descristalado
and afortunadísimo (vulgo Fonda) of Station, where we were obliged
to listen, to our regret, over another call, unedifying and nothing
funny ....., to which we get after shirk, speaking us and quietly
to the illustrious city whose doors vivaqueábamos so unpleasantly.

This is, therefore, that came out the day funestísimo August 21, 1520, in which Medina del Campo
was burned by the mayor and Captain Ronquillo Fonseca, in consequence of its inhabitants have
resisted to hand over the artillery to fight to Segovia, raised for the Communards, and we
remember also that beautiful letter, written with such why the Segovians to the Madinans, when
you read these sublime words worth ancient Muse of History: - "Our Lord is witness, that if
burned village development houses, they burnt the entrails to us, and we would like to lose any
more lives that many farms were lost. But take, gentlemen, of course, that Medina was lost because
Segovia, Segovia or will not report, or Segovia avenge the insult to the Medina ..... From
we say, and to the law of Christians swear, and this scripture promise that all us for each
one of us will venture Porno estates and lives, and what less is that all the residents of Medina
freely take advantage of the pine forests of Segovia, cutting, to make their homes, wood. Because
it can not be anything more than just that, because Medina occasion that was not destroyed
with artillery to Segovia, Segovia give their pines with to be repaired
to Medina .....»

"Medina (added Lafuente historian) had been until then the emporium of commerce, the great
market of the Kingdom, and the principal repository of foreign goods and domestic cloth, silk,
brocades, jewelry and tapestry: its annual fairs were famous in the
world: all perished on that day of desolation, of seven hundred to
nine hundred houses were consumed by the flames.

"

* * *

All of this had begun to dawn, seeing which, we moved the platform of the station, helarnos
preferring outdoor rosicleres seeing the dawn, the air to cast and to the increasing vulgarity
of the cafe.

The station platform was as quiet as solo .-- Our train had primitive continued his march towards
Irun, no sooner we got out of it, and then had another party direction to the great city of Zamora
.-- The only thing it would not even think of going out signals was the newly established Salamanca
train!

In contrast, the sun came .-- By the way that its first ray did not hurt our eyes directly, but came to
respect a loving kiss with arrogantísimo Gothic tower, which we had seen opposite the station, on the
ruins of an ancient fortress .-- It was the famous Tower Tribute of the renowned Castillo de
la Mota.

This castle, far from Medina few hundred steps, and now separated from it by the tyrannical rail, crown
a kind of plateau in these endless plains of Castile, may well play
the role of height when it chose to seat a citadel there .....-- Isabella
died.

That is, perhaps within this tower, gilded the rising sun, was (and is) the room painted by Rosales,
with unique expertise, in the table was called to his reputation .-- There was imprisoned for
twenty years, Hernando Pizarro, brother and fellow glories of the Conqueror of Peru .-- He
lived also jailed Cesare Borgia the abominable .....

But as if the train had been waiting to Salamanca we were welcome to stay Station at Medina to
say "go!", the bell and whistle, and the voices of employees took
us out in this contemplation of such venerable ruins and its great
historical memories, forced to run more quickly to the platform, which
we had imperceptibly away.

At that moment shone in our eyes, not reflected light, but the same
disk sun .....

It was six.

IV

A MEDINA DEL CAMPO DE SALAMANCA

We left.

The train turned to the West, no sooner stepped out of needles, and Colossus immediately Medina del
Campo, whose last houses adjoining the station.

The railway crosses the same streets of the town, on an embankment a few feet height, through which
we see, over fences and walls, within many pens filled with wood, dung and tools of work,
and covered with very recent frost where they went and the early morning sunbathing and chickens
clucking .....

The Madinans not been lifted yet. At least, the windows and doors of their houses were closed,
not expelling smoke stacks, and there was not a soul in the quiet streets.

Medina is very extensive, and compréndese well, to see that play important
role in the history of Spain.

At every step we discovered dilapidated houses, with every appearance
of uninhabited and large lots of others that have been sunk.

Countless church towers new or old (Ie four or five centuries ago,
or last century, judging from the shape of their bell and the color
of the walls) mantiénense still standing.

Stone abound blackened by time, and still have to count to be down
the centuries and the revolutions .....

Disaster caused by the incendiary
torch of Ronquillo and Fonseca, everywhere nótanse .-- The remains
horrible misfortune of Medina, as those of Pompeii and Herculaneum,
is dated determined.

This year dawned this day of rich and powerful, and at night was a heap of ruins!

But as we thought in this, the train had already left back to Medina del Campo, and ran happier
horizons .....

Let us do the same.

* * *

Medina is 77 km to Salamanca.

About the first to go, only I have to say that we crossed the great plain Castilla la Vieja, more productive,
but no less forlorn and dreary than Castilla New. As we saw eye reached miles and miles of green
fields without newly plows with great care, where the seeds were sown to the crop of 1878, but
or a tree or a house, or running water, even the slightest ripple
in the field !.....

However, almost black, endless plain, sheltered
by a blue sky and clean and flooded with light for a bright and glorious
sunshine, was not without charm and grandeur, to Because of its very
simplicity .-- The day was beautiful, a true Spanish day, and this
beautifies everything.

Moreover, since we were sighting in the solitude of those lands that some farmers quietly plowed
and we could not imagine where they came from or what hours had risen
to be there so early .-- Seen from the train, people seemed of the
Moon viewed from Earth, or inhabitants of the Earth viewed from the
Moon or more like a permanent fixture of that scene, such as human
figures that put the artists in landscapes.

Minutes later (that's like saying a few leagues beyond) we passed
a mound of mud, stone, plaster, tile and broom, topped by a tower
his cross and all ..... It was a people was Campillo: I mean, was
one of many Campillos as contained in the List of Spain.

Then we passed through El Carpio (ie by Carpio, as they also knew
more than one ).....

And to the seven twenty-eight we came Cantalapiedra,
famous today for its drinking water, not drank.

We had entered the province of Salamanca.

There is already beginning to curl the ground .-- Cantalapiedra occupies a sloping plateau, where
there also formerly a castle almost impregnable.

In the fifteenth century the Portuguese took possession of it and
defended a long time under its walls, the claims of the Beltraneja
.-- The inhabitants of the town then proceeded nevertheless the castle
that could over time give occasion to new struggles and problems,
if left standing, and no sooner completed that civil war, demolished
peacefully with its own Wash your hands .-- So that has not always
run as axiomatic as to whether vis pacem, for bellum.

And all I can say Cantalapiedra.

Posts run again, the sun, which was already warming up, began to pat
into the car, and ended up resting most loving .....

And we spend
asleep (as we saw after Indicator) for

New Carolina

Pedroso,

Gomecello,

And
Moriscos

names that have found no echo in our memories, but we had
not been asleep.

Instead, he wanted the Providence despertásemos to leave this last station, ie when A quarter
of an hour (mile and a half) to get to Salamanca .-- Otherwise, we
would suddenly found under the walls of the big city, something opposed
to all the rules of art to be moved.

* * *

The first thing we saw of Salamanca (long before I saw from afar) was his famous bull ....., salamanquinos
bulls, a thousand pounds of weight and formidable horns, planted near the track and watching
the train with more anger than fear.

- Ah, scoundrels! (I was about to tell you). Since time immemorial have been going to Madrid
to scare us with the force and those horns that God has given you !..... Now it's up to the
come to Madrid to Salamanca to frighten you! - Why do not you try to fight this locomotive?

The
bulls had to guess such a challenge, and news, of course, the tragic
end those heroes and martyrs of the same species that rammed into
the banks arrogantly Jarama to the first train from Madrid to Aranjuez
and Aranjuez to Madrid, we again back with great dignity, as if to
say:

- Our race fulfilled and that duty!

Their protest was written with blood! Step to the majesty fall!

And the truth is they were right.

In this appeared before our eyes Salamanca, emerging from the hollow in which it sits to the
right bank of the Tormes.

That was, yes, the very noble and very loyal midwife, with its broken
walls, with its hundred of towers and domes, that horizontal line
is drawn in the sky, with its large buildings of golden stone, reverberating
the sun, and preceded by green trees, which seemed to serve baseboard
or carpet!

Upright stone so rampant in the air, so much architecture, so grandiose,
so nobly, correspond in all respects to dictate laudatory "Girl .....»

Rome was therefore undoubtedly we were ahead of Salamanca.

V.

ENTRY INTO THE CITY STREET .-- ZAMORA

Railway Station Salamanca took one kilometer from the city, and since it it runs to a beautiful
avenue of trees, which serves as a public promenade.

Furthermore, when we went there, built in haste, to service the same station, a large and well conditioned
road, whose route passed dozing and general buses and many individual hotels.

Because this was where we were afraid to find any accommodation when in Madrid We planned the
trip!

- "Señorito, the Hotel H! .....--¡ Señorito at Hotel B! .....--¡ Señorito, at the Fonda X!
.....»-- us facteurs et commissionnaires shouted, neither more nor less than if we had just come
to Paris or London.

- Good for Salamanca! - Exclaim us .-- Noblesse oblige! - When they get big to commoners, things
should be done with this course!

But this very abundance of lodging a new difficulty arose, which was
that, as had not consulted anyone before leaving Madrid, or notice
to any friend of ours arrival at Salamanca, did not know what was
the best hotel we find, therefore, the situation the French (and French
influence far) called embarrass du choix.

It was something of a mistake in point of so much importance.

Wonder, then, to a guard civil (infallible authority, tile below),
and he advised us (in confidence) Hotel Trade.

- At the Hotel Trade!
- Told us then with confidence, penetrating the bus of that dedication.

And

we left.

As for the rest of the passengers ..... (Ah, cuckoo!), And were seen walking on foot for street
trees, from which it follows that the other coaches went to the city
vacuum .-- But What mattered, if the honor of Salamanca was saved?

Brand new saying goes: Do what you must, but what you should do.

* * *

Uploaded on rear bracket, and cap, head, and tucked into the waist of our cage, looked at us and
smiled the lad on the bus (lad also by age, as there would be under
fifteen), and seeing his face I picaresque, worthy of his countryman
Lazarus de Tormes, jubilantly díjeme :--«¡ Here our guide until we
get to the inn !.....»

And I went with him to speak, after donation, which I did, of a cigar.

This young man told us, among many other things less interesting, as the door, and no door,
where soon after we entered Salamanca, is still called the Puerta de Zamora, and the beautiful road
that begins here also bears the name of the city of Gonzalo Arias.

And we remembered, for our part, the clamor that arose in Madrid Schools
the year of 1855, when Salamanca (not all) had seen fit to bring down
such door, not realizing that had served as the Arc de Triomphe for
the entry of Emperor Charles V Tormes in the city of the year, also
of grace, of 1534 .....

The Calle de Zamora said that, as we saw
later, it is the best of Salamanca, called on all our attention, and
especially mine, on brown, and as austere .-- And old age was my last
and then very recent pleasure trip to the theater had been the province
Cadiz, and my eyes were made to see people very white, shiny, brand
new, new to say, well, green adorned balconies, patios flowers exposed
to the public and horizontal roofs of whitewashed style of Africa
was still dancing in my imagination those cities with laughter, no
smoke or artistic monuments, simple, funny and flirty and young, dressed
in calico summer, called Sanlúcar, the Ports, San Fernando and Cadiz.

Salamanca, on the contrary, I had in the Calle de Zamora, dressed in cloth and velvet Iron and suede,
as a kind of ricahembra warnings to assist the Council or to the battle, and more fond of the temple
to the ball .-- Many houses were stone, others were painted in a harsh, outdated, monumental.
The architecture and archeology, history and legend, completely bizarre gay village Cadiz, reappeared,
then, in my view with its venerable character. Great heraldic field over several doors, or
in the spacious canvases very strong walls, or in the black hardware and grills and feudal balconies.
These balconies were huge dust by canopy, finished off roofs in huge eaves, and below, the extent
and ended up in humble flown cross bars. Covers could be seen of the period of the Renaissance
might be called Spanish plateresco, others arc Roman with very great segments, style Trastamaras
weather, and some as imposing and avoid making, that, to avoid running the year 1877, I would have
sworn that living in such houses powerful inquisitors or one of those terrible mayorazgos that
used to be leaders of a dozen brothers, all soldiers, monks and nuns were in doubt .-- Castilla Old,
or, rather, in the ancient kingdom of Leon! Even the air was there, Gothic, Spanish rancid,
pure Christian, antisarraceno, finally - since they have to say the record straight!

And note that Salamanca is nothing gloomy or morose of grim, as we they had believed until then,
similar to other Castilian cities, but is, certainly knew it was, a gay population, lively,
bright, with beautiful sky, free and pure atmosphere, decent, finally, to house, as shelters,
which tend to be called at Valladolid and Burgos Castilla Andalusians.

This

brings us to the hotel, at the other end of that same street, choose rooms we proved excellent, and
since then we are officially notified or warned that lunch at the establishment at eleven o'clock,
we beat palms as a sign of joy, and then take the stairs down, to take advantage of the missing
peak hour for the canonical lunch, taking the first art walk through the city of Fonseca and
Maldonados.

VI

LA PLAZA MAYOR .-- THE GRASS Corrill

The first walk through the
entire historic city should be no guide and no written guide, only
how to form their own opinion of things and admire, or do not admire
them, regardless for suggestions and comments of others.

 The arrival of these forces was welcomed
alike by Rana Khan and by the long harassed citizens of Dehli; and after the safety of the
palace had been secured, the rest of the army, commanded by Rana Khan, Appa Khandi Rao, and
others, started in pursuit of Gholam Kadir, who found himself so hard pressed that he threw
himself into the Fort of Meerut, three marches off, and about equi-distant from Dehli, from
Ghausgarh, and from the frontiers of Rohilkand. Why he did not, on leaving Dehli, march due
north to Ghausgarh cannot be now positively determined; but it is possible that, having his
spoil collected in that fort, he preferred trying to divert the enemy by an expedition in a
more easterly direction; and that he entertained some hopes of aid from his connection, Faizula
Khan of Rampur, or from the Bangash of Farrukhabad.

Be this as it may, the fort of Meerut sheltered him for the time, but in that fort he was ere
long surrounded. The investing army was large, and, as the chances of escape diminished, the
Pathan's audacity at length began to fail, and he offered terms of the most entire and abject
submission. These being sternly rejected, he prepared for the worst. On the 21st of December
a general assault was delivered by the Mahratta army; against which Gholam Kadir and his men
defended themselves with resolution throughout the short day. But his men in general were now
weary, if not of his crimes at all events of his misfortunes, and he formed the resolution
to separate from them without further delay. He accordingly stole out of the fort that night,
mounted on a horse, into whose saddle-bags he had stuffed a large amount of the most valuable
jewellery from the palace plunder, which he had ever since retained in his own keeping, in
view of an emergency. He rode some twelve miles through the winter night, avoiding the haunts
of men, and apparently hoping to cross the Jamna and find refuge with the Sikhs. At last, in
the mists of the dawn, his weary horse, wandering over the fields, fell into a slope used for
the descent of the oxen who draw up the bucket from the well, for the purposes of irrigation.
The horse rose and galloped off by the incline made for the bullocks, but the rider was either
stunned or disabled by his bruises, and remained where he fell. As the day dawned the Brahmin
cultivator came to yoke his cattle and water the wheat, when he found the richly-dressed form
of one whom he speedily recognized as having but lately refused him redress when plundered
by the Pathan soldiery. "Salam, Nawab Sahib!" said the man, offering a mock obeisance, with
clownish malice, to his late oppressor. The scared and famished caitiff sate up and looked
about him. "Why do you call me Nawab?" he asked. "I am a poor soldier, wounded, and seeking
my home. I have lost all I have, but put me in the road to Ghausgarh, and I will reward you
hereafter." Necessarily, the mention of this fort would have put at rest any doubt in the Brahmin's
mind; he at once shouted for assistance, and presently carried off his prize to Rana Khan's
camp. Hence the prisoner was despatched to Sindhia, at Mathra, while the Pathans, left to themselves,
abandoned the Fort of Meerut and dispersed to their respective homes. Bedar Bakht, the titular
Emperor, was sent to Dehli, where he was confined and ultimately slain, and the unfortunate
controller, Manzur Ali, who had played so prominent a part in the late events as to have incurred
general suspicion of treacherous connivance, was tied to the foot of an elephant and thus dragged
about the streets until he died.

For the Rohilla chief a still more horrible fate was prepared. On his arrival at Mathra, Sindhia
inflicted upon him the punishment of Tashhir, sending him round the bazaar on a jackass, with
his face to the tail, and a guard instructed to stop at every considerable shop and beg a cowree,
in the name of the Nawab of the Bawani. The wretched man becoming abusive under the contemptuous
treatment, his tongue was torn out of his mouth. Gradually he was mutilated further, being
first blinded, as a retribution for his treatment of the Emperor, and subsequently deprived
of his nose, ears, hands and feet, and sent to Dehli. Death came to his relief upon the road,
it is believed by his being hanged upon a tree 3rd March, 1789, and the mangled trunk was sent
to Dehli, where it was laid before the sightless monarch, the most ghastly Nazar that ever
was presented in the Diwin Khas.

Perhaps, if we could hear Gholam Kadir's version of the revolution here described, we might
find that public indignation had to some extent exaggerated his crimes. It is possible that
the tradition which imputes his conduct to revenge for an alleged cruelty of Shah Alam may
be a myth, founded upon a popular conception of probability, and only corroborated by the fact
that he died childless. Perhaps he merely thought that he was performing a legitimate stroke
of State, and imitating the vigorous policy of Ghazi-ud-din the younger; perhaps the plunder
of the palace was necessary to conciliate his followers; perhaps the firing of the palace was
an accident. But the result of the combination of untoward appearances has been to make his
name a bye-word among the not over-sensitive inhabitants of Hindustan, familiar, by tradition
and by personal experience, with almost every form of cruelty, and almost every degree of rebellion.
It is said that during moments of reaction, after some of his debauches in the palace (v. p.
183), Gholam Kadir attempted to justify his conduct by representing himself as acting under
supernatural inspiration. "As I was sleeping," he averred, "in a garden at Sikandra, an apparition
stood over me and smote me on the face saying, Arise, go to Dehli, and possess thyself of the
palace." It may be that at such times he experienced some feelings of remorse. At all events,
his punishment was both immediate and terrible, and his crimes proved the ruin of his house.
Ghausgarh was forthwith razed to the ground, so that — as already mentioned — no vestige but
the mosque remains. The brother of the deceased fled to the Panjab.

The first care of the Patel, after these summary vindications of justice, was to make provision
for the administration of Hindustan, to which he probably foresaw that he should not be able
to give constant personal attention, and in which he resolved to run no further risks of a
Musalman revival. The fallen Emperor was restored to his throne, in spite of his own reluctance,
"in spite of his blindness," as the native historian says, who knew that no blind man could
be a Sultan; and at the enthronement, to which all possible pomp was lent, the agency of the
Peshwa, with Sindhia for his deputy, was solemnly renewed and firmly established. We also learn
from Francklin that an annual allowance of nine lakes of rupees was assigned for the support
of the Emperor's family and Court, an adequate civil list if it had been regularly paid. But
Shah Nizam-ud-din, who had been restored to office, was an unfit man to be entrusted with the
uncontrolled management of such a sum; and during the Patel's frequent and protracted absences,
the royal family were often reduced to absolute indigence. Sayid Raza Khan, on whose authority
this shocking statement rests, was the resident representative of the British Minister at Lucknow,
and was the channel through which the aged Emperor received from the British Government a monthly
allowance of 2,000 rupees. This, together with the fees paid by persons desirous of being presented,
was all that Shah Alam could count on in his old age for the support of his thirty children
and numerous kinsfolk and retainers. Captain Francklin was an eye-witness of the semblance
of State latterly maintained in the Red Castle, where he paid his respects in 1794. He found
the Emperor represented by a crimson velvet chair under an awning in the Diwan Khas, but the
Shah was actually in one of the private rooms with three of his sons. The British officers
presented their alms under the disguise of a tributary offering, and received some nightgowns,
of sprigged calico, by way of honorific dresses.

The so-called Emperor being now incapable of ruling, even according to the very lax political
code of the East, and all real power being in the hands of a Hindu headborough supported by
mercenary troops, the native records, to which I have had access, either cease altogether,
or cease to concern themselves with the special story of Hindustan. And, indeed, as far as
showing the fall of the empire, my task is also done. I do not agree with those who think that
the empire fell with the death of Aurangzeb, or even with the events that immediately preceded
the campaign of Panipat, in 1761. I consider the empire to have endured as long as "the king's
name was a tower of strength"; as long as Nawabs paid large fines on succession, and contending
parties intrigued for investiture; as long as Shujaa-ud-daulah could need its sanction to his
occupation of Kattahir, or Najaf Khan led its armies to the conquest of the Jats. We have seen
how that state of affairs originated, and how it came to an end; there is nothing now left
but to trace briefly the concluding career of those who have played their parts in the narrative,
and to introduce their successors upon the vast and vacant theatre. In so doing it must be
borne in mind that, although we, from our present standpoint, can see that the Moghul Empire
was ended, it did not altogether so appear to contemporaries. Whether federation or disintegration
be the best ideal destiny, for a number of Provinces whose controlling centre has given way,
is a question which may admit of more than one answer. But it is, in any case, certain that
in the year 1789 the Provinces of which the Empire had been composed, were not ripe for independent
and organic existence. There was still, therefore, a craving for a paramount power; and that
craving was to be finally met by the British. In the meanwhile the almost effete machinery
of the Empire, directed and administered by Sindhia, made the best available substitute; General
de Boigne — who had the most complete information on the subject — bears unequivocal testimony
on this subject. His words will be found at the beginning of the next chapter.

NOTE. — It would be curious to know what became of Gholam Kadir's jewel-laden horse after the
rider fell into the pit. In Skinner's life, it is conjectured that he came into the hands of
M. Lestonneaux. It is certain that this officer abruptly abandoned Sindhia's service at this
very time. Perhaps the crown jewels of the Great Mughal are now in France. The Emperor (who
composed poetry with estimation under the name of "Aftab") solaced his temporary captivity
by writing verses, which are still celebrated in Hindustan, and of which the following is a
correct translation. The resemblance to the Psalms of David is noticeable: —

"The storms of affliction have destroyed the Majesty of my Government: and scattered my State
to the winds.

I was even as the Sun shining in the firmament of the Empire: but the sun is setting in the
sorrowful West.

It is well for me that I have become blind; for so I am hindered from seeing another on my throne.

Even as the saints were afflicted by Yazid; so is the ruin that has fallen upon me, through
the appointment of Destiny.

The wealth of this world was my sickness; but now the Lord hath healed me.

I have received the just reward of mine iniquities; but now He hath forgiven me my sins.

I gave milk to the young adder; and he became the cause of my destruction.

The Steward who served me thirty years compassed my ruin; but a swift recompense hath overtaken
him.

The lords of my council who had covenanted to serve me; even they deserted me, and took whatsoever
in thirty years I had put by for my children.

Moghuls and Afghans alike failed me; and became confederates in my imprisonment.

Even the base-born man of Hamadan, and Gul Mohammad, full of wickedness; Allah Yar also, and
Solaiman and Badal Beg all met together for my trouble.

And now that this young Afghan hath destroyed the dignity of my empire; I see none but thee,
O Most Holy! to have compassion upon me.

Yet peradventure Timur Shah my kinsman may come to my aid; and Madhoji Sindhia, who is even
as a son unto me he also will surely avenge my cause.

Asaf-ud-daula and the chief of the English; they also may come to my relief.

Shame were it if Princes and People gathered not together; to the end that they might bring
me help.

Of all the fair women of my chambers none is left to me but Mubarik Mahal.

O Aftab! verily thou hast been this day overthrown by Destiny; yet God shall bless thee and
restore thy fallen brightness."

Francklin's Shah Alum has been constantly referred to. He was an officer of great diligence,
who had large local opportunities, having been in Dehli, the Doab, and Rohilkand, from 1793
to 1796, on a survey ordered by the British Government. He had access to many native sources
of information; but unfortunately never cites any in the margin but Sayid Raza's MS. I have
not hesitated to combat his views on several points; but there are few English writers on the
subject to whom we are more indebted. Besides this work, and one to be hereafter noticed, he
was the author of books on Ancient Palibothra and on snake-worship. He died a lieutenant-colonel
in the Bengal army.

PART III.

CHAPTER I.

A.D. 1789-94.

FROM the time of the revolution of 1788 each of the dismembered provinces has its separate
history; and the present record naturally shrinks to the contracted limits of a local history
of the capital, and of the districts more especially connected with it by proximity or by political
ties. Still, since the country is one that has long been occupying our attention, and the persons
who have made it do so are still upon the scene, it may be interesting to those who have followed
the narrative thus far if a brief conclusion is presented to them. The story of the empire's
fall will thus be completed, and the chasm between the Moghul rule and the English rule will
be provisionally bridged. It must, moreover, be remembered that the visible centre of authority
is a thing for which men will always look. And, even in the fallen state of the Dehli monarchy
this was still in the palace of the descendant of Babar. To use de Boigne's words, written
in 1790: — "le respect .... envers la maison de Timour regnait a tel point que, quoique toute
la peninsule se fut sucessivement soustraite a son autorite, aucun prince .... de l'Inde ne
s'etait arroge le titre de souverain. Sindhia partageait le respect, et Shah Alam etait toujours
assis sur le Trone Mogol, et tout se faisait en son nom."

It has been already shown how "Maharaja Patel," as Madhoji Sindhia is called by the native
writers, assumed the actual government, whilst he secured for the youthful chief of the Mahratta
confederacy the titular office of "Agent Plenipotentiary," which had been once or twice previously
used to designate mighty Viceroys like the first Nizam.

In providing this distinction for his native superior, the usually shrewd old minister intended
to blind his countrymen and his rivals; and by another still more clumsy coup de theatre, he
assumed to himself the position of a servant, as harmonizing with the rural dignity of Beadle
or Headborough, which, as we have seen, he persisted in affecting. Decorated however by the
blind old Emperor with the more sonorous appellations of Madar-ul-Maham, Ali Jah, Bahadur ("Exalted
and valorous Centre of Affairs"), he played the Mayor-of-the-Palace with far more effect at
Dehli than it would have been possible for him to do at Punah. Circumstances, moreover, were
now far more in his favour than they had been since 1785. During the three years that followed,
the Rohillas of Ghausgarh were broken, Muhammad Beg was dead, the strength of the brave but
indolent Rajputs was much paralyzed, and Najaf Kuli Khan — who never had opposed him, but might
have been formidable if he pleased — had succumbed to a long attack of dropsy. Ismail Beg,
it is true, was still in existence, and now more than ever a centre of influence among the
Moghuls. But Ismail Beg was at present conciliated, having joined the Patel's party ever since
his former associate, Gholam Kadir, had proceeded to such criminal excesses in the palace.
As a further means of attaching to him this important, even if not very intelligent chief,
the Patel about this time conferred upon him a portion of Najaf Kuli's fief in the Mewat country
south of Dehli. By this he not only pleased the Moghul noble, but trusted to furnish him with
occupation in the reduction and management of the wild mountaineers of that district. It was
indeed idle to hope that Ismail Beg would remain faithful in the event of any future resurrection
of the Musalman power; and it could not be denied that something of the kind might at any time
occur, owing to the menacing attitude of the Afghans, who were still very powerful under the
famous Ahmad Abdali's son, Timur Shah. Indeed, this was a ceaseless difficulty during the whole
of Madhoji's remaining life; and one that would have been still more serious, but for the anxiously
pacific policy which, for the most part, characterized the British administration during that
period. Nor did the Minister at this time enjoy the advantage of being served by European commanders.
Lestonneaux retired suddenly in the beginning of 1789; and de Boigne, as above-mentioned, had
also left the army, and was engaged in commercial pursuits at Lucknow. But the army continued
to comprise a certain proportion of regular troops; nor was it long before M. de Boigne, being
earnestly solicited by Madhoji, and offered his own terms, resumed his command, augmented this
portion of the force, and assumed a position of confidence and freedom which had not previously
been allowed him. The skeletons of his two original battalions remained to form the nucleus
of the new force. The battalion of Lestonneaux — or whatever the name — was deserted by its
commandant, with eight months' arrears due to it, was disorganized and mutinous; and Sindhia
meditated an attack upon it with an overwhelming body of horse. De Boigne however interceded,
representing that the soldiers were not to blame for their colonel's defection and that their
demand, though it might not be expressed with due respect, was after all founded on justice.
Sindhia relented so far as to award a present payment of half the arrears, and a permission
that the men should be absorbed in the brigade about to be formed; but the astute Savoyard
took care first to make them pile their arms, so that their future entertainment should be
as individuals only. The officers were at the same time cashiered; and thus the mutiny of a
battalion was patiently and ingeniously suppressed without its precious material being lost
to the service. The requisite new recruits were principally raised from Rohilkand and Audh
— the future nurseries of the famous Bengal army. The officers were the most respectable Europeans
that the General could collect; and the non-commissioned posts were given to picked men of
the old battalions.

The augmented force gradually reached the strength of three brigades, each brigade consisting
of eight battalions of sepoys, each 700 strong; with 500 cavalry and forty fieldpieces. The
General was allowed 10,000 rupees per mensem for his own pay, and a liberal scale was fixed
for the European officers, whose number was from time to time increased, and the whole force,
forming a small army in itself, marched under the white cross of Savoy, the national colours
of its honourable chief. A gratuity was secured to all who might be wounded in action, and
it was guaranteed that their pay should go on while in hospital. Invalids were to have pensions
in money and grants of land.

It soon had to take the field: for Ismail Beg's loyalty, already wavering in view of an Afghan
invasion, gave way entirely in the beginning of 1790 before the solicitations of the Rajput
chiefs. These high-spirited men, longing for an opportunity to strike another blow for national
independence, fancied, and not without reason, that they could reckon upon the aid of the restless
Ismail with whom they had already combined during the Lalsaut campaign in 1787.

The corps of de Boigne formed part of the army sent under the command of Sindhia's Mahratta
generals, Lakwa Dada and Gopal Rao Bhao, to prevent if possible the junction of Ismail Beg
with his Rajput allies. But the Moghul soldier of fortune was determined not to yield without
a struggle. No sooner did he raise his standard than thousands of disbanded Afghan and Persian
horsemen flocked to his headquarters. In March de Boigne left his employer at his favourite
cantonment of Mathra, and sending before him a cloud of Mahratta horse, marched upon Ismail
Beg with a complete brigade, including fifty pieces of artillery. On the morning of the 10th
May they came upon him at a place called Patan, in the rocky country between Ajmir and Gwalior,
not many miles from the scene of the former battle at Lalsaut. For three weeks or more nothing
was effected, but on the 19th June Ismail announced his intention of attacking the Mahratta
lines. De Boigne sent a messenger to say that he would spare him the fatigue of the journey,
and advanced to the encounter with all his force on the following morning.

The Rajputs had come up; but there was no longer union between them; for the Patel, taking
advantage of a temporary soreness felt by the Kachwahas of Jaipur on some trifling provocation,
had contrived to secure their inaction before the battle began. Notwithstanding this defection,
a large body of infantry still stood firm, but European skill and resolution conquered in the
end. Ismail at the head of his Moghul cavaliers repeatedly charged de Boigne's artillery, sabring
the gunners at their posts. Between the charges the infantry were thinned by well-directed
volleys of grape, and the squares had to be formed with the greatest rapidity as the cavalry
of the enemy once more attacked them. De Boigne's squares, however, resisted all attempts throughout
the afternoon, and a general advance of the whole line at length took place, before which the
enemy gradually broke. De Boigne placing himself at the head of one of his battalions, ordered
the others to follow, and precipitated his foot upon the enemy's batteries. The first was carried
with the shock; at eight in the evening he was master of the second; the third fell an hour
later; the Moghuls' resistance was completely overpowered, and their leader was chased into
the city of Jaipur. Ismail also lost in this engagement one hundred guns, fifty elephants,
two hundred stand of colours and all his baggage; and on the following day a large portion
of his army, amounting to seven battalions of foot and ten thousand irregular troops, went
over to the victors. On this, as on many other occasions, the Mahratta cause was jeopardised
by jealousies; Holkar holding aloof during the action, which would have begun earlier, and
in all probability proved more decisive and with less loss, had he given due co-operation.
There is a modest account of this action from de Boigne's pen in the Calcutta Gazette for 22nd
July, 1790. The letter is dated 24th June — four days after the battle — and does not represent
the exertions of the Mahrattas in anything like the serious light adopted in Captain Grant
Duff's work, to which I have been principally indebted for my account of the action. The gallant
writer estimates Ismail Beg's Moghul horse, however, at 5,000 sabres; and admits that the Mahrattas
would have sustained severe loss but for the timely firmness of the regular battalions. The
fact appears to be that the diminished Rajput infantry, deficient in discipline and zeal, and
wanting the prestige and coolness inspired among Asiatics by the presence of European leaders,
did not support the cavalry, and that the latter become exhausted by their vain assaults upon
the well-trained squares. Seeing this, de Boigne marched up his men (10,000 strong, by his
own account), under the protection of a steady cannonade from his own guns, and stormed the
enemy's camp. He estimates his own loss at 120 killed and 472 wounded; the enemy's foot were
not much cut up, because they were intrenched; "but they have lost a vast number of cavalry."
He says of himself, "I was on horseback encouraging our men; thank God I have realized all
the sanguine expectations of Sindhia; the officers in general have behaved well; to them I
am a great deal indebted for the fortune of the day." This was the most important victory that
Sindhia had ever gained, and fully justified the increased confidence that he had shown his
Savoyard General. The memoir above cited, estimates the whole combined forces of the enemy
at 25,000 foot and 20,000 horse, but it is probable that they were not all engaged. Patan,
a fortress which has been compared to Gibraltar, was taken by storm after three days of open
trenches, and Ismail Beg fled to the Panjab.

The Patel himself was not present with the army during this campaign, but remained at Mathra,
which was a favourite residence of his, owing to its peculiar reputation for holiness among
the Hindus. This ancient city, which is mentioned both by Arrian and by Pliny, is the centre
of a small district which is to the worshippers of Vishnu what Palestine is to Christians,
and the Western part of Arabia is to the people of the Prophet. Here was born the celebrated
Krishna, reported to be an incarnation of the Deity; here was his infant life sought by the
tyrant Kans; hence he fled to Gujrat; returning when he came to man's estate, and partially
adopting it as his residence after having slain his enemy.

We have seen how the general of Ahmad the Abdali massacred the inhabitants, with a zeal partaking
of the fanatic and the robber in equal proportions, in 1757. Since then the place, standing
at the head of the Bhartpur basin, and midway between Dehli and the Rajput country, had recovered
its importance, and now formed Madhoji's chief cantonment. Here it was that he received the
news of the battle of Patan, and of the temporary disappearance of Ismail Beg; and hence he
proceeded to Dehli, and there obtained a fresh confirmation of the office of Plenipotentiary
for the Peshwa, together with two fresh firmans (or patents). One conferring upon himself the
power to choose a successor in the Ministry from among his own family, and the other an edict
forbidding the slaughter of horned cattle (so highly reverenced by the Hindus) throughout all
the territory which still owned the sway, however nominal, of the Moghul sceptre.

Soon after he ordered his army, commanded as before, to return to Rajputana, and punish Bijai
Singh, the Rathor leader of Jodhpur, for abetting the resistance of Ismail Beg. On the 21st
of August the General arrived at Ajmir, and took the town on the following day. He then sat
down to form the regular siege of the citadel, called Taragarh (a fastness strong by nature,
and strengthened still more by art, and situated on an eminence some 3,000 feet above sea-level).
Bijai Singh, in Rajput fashion, was ready to try negotiation, and thought that he might succeed
in practicing upon one whom he would naturally regard in the light of a mercenary leader. He
accordingly sent a message to de Boigne offering him the fort, with the territory for fifty
miles round Ajmir if he would desert his employer. But the General sent him for answer that
"Sindhia had already given him both Jodhpur and Jaipur, and that the Rajah could not be so
unreasonable as to expect him to exchange the whole of those territories for the portion offered."
After delivering himself of this grim piece of humour, and leaving a force to blockade the
citadel, General de Boigne marched west to encounter the Rajah. Burning to retrieve the disgrace
of Patan, Bijai Singh was marching up from Jodhpur to the relief of Taragarh when de Boigne
met him at Mirta, a walled town about two marches distant from Ajmir and 76 miles N.E. of Jodhpur.
It stands on high ground, the western wall being of mud, the eastern of masonry. On the 9th
September the armies approached, and Gopal Rao was for attacking at once, but the General,
with his accustomed coolness, pointed out that, not only were the men fatigued with marching
and in need of repose, but that the day was too far advanced to allow of due pursuit being
made should they — as was to be hoped — gain the action. It was therefore determined to try
the effect of a surprise after the men had had a meal and a few hours repose. The forces on
either side were not unequal. The Rajputs had the better in point of cavalry, their strength
in this arm has been computed at 30,000 sabres. The Mahrattas had the advantage in artillery
and in disciplined foot. The lines of the Rajputs were partially covered in rear by the walls
of the town. But the spot was of evil omen. Bijai Singh had sustained a severe defeat on this
very ground near forty years before. Nevertheless, years had not taught the Rathors wisdom,
nor misfortune schooled them to prudence. De Boigne came up in the grey of the morning, when
the indolent Hindus were completely off their guard. And when the Rajah and his companions
were roused from the drunken dreams of Madhu, they already found the camp deserted, and the
army in confusion. Fifty field pieces were piercing the lines with an incessant discharge of
grape-shot, and Colonel Rohan who commanded de Boigne's right wing had, with unauthorised audacity,
thrown himself into the midst of the camp at the head of three battalions. Rallying a strong
body of horse — and the Rajput cavaliers were brave to a fault — the Rajah fell furiously upon
the advanced corps of infantry, which he hoped to annihilate before they could be supported
from the main army. But European discipline was too much. for Eastern chivalry. Hastily forming
hollow square the battalions of de Boigne awaited the storm; the infantry of Waterloo before
the gendarmerie of Agincourt. The ground shook beneath the impetuous advance of the dust-cloud
sparkling with the flashes of quivering steel. But when the cloud cleared off, there were still
the hollow squares of infantry, like living bastions, dealing out lightnings far more terrible
than any that they had encountered. The baffled horsemen wheeled furiously round on the Mahratta
cavalry, and scattered them to the four corners of the field. They then attempted to gallop
back, but it was through a Valley of Death. The whole of the regular troops of the enemy lined
the way; the guns of de Boigne, rapidly served, pelted them with grape at point-blank distance;
the squares maintained their incessant volleys; by nine in the morning nearly every man of
the 4,000 who had charged with their prince lay dead upon the ground. Unfatigued and almost
uninjured, the well-trained infantry of de Boigne now became assailants. The battalions rapidly
deployed, and advancing with the support of their own artillery, made a general attack upon
the Rajput line. By three in the afternoon all attempt at resistance had ceased. The whole
camp, with vast plunder and munitions of war, fell into the hands of the victors. The middle-ages
were over in India; and the prediction of Bernier was vindicated by the superiority of scientific
warfare over headlong valour. The town was easily taken, and the fall of Taragarh, the lofty
and almost impregnable-looking citadel that frowns above Ajmir, followed soon after. The echo
of this blow resounded throughout native India. The Nana Farnavis heard it at Punah, and redoubled
his Brahmin intrigues against his successful countryman. He likewise stimulated the rivalry
of Takuji Holkar, who, with more of practical sagacity, resolved to profit by Sindhia's example,
and lost no time in raising a force similarly organised to that which had won this great victory.
De Boigne, almost worn out himself, allowed his victorious troops no time to cool, but marched
on Jodhpur, and arrived at Kuarpur in the vicinity of the capital on the 18th of November.
But his presence was enough. The Rajas of Udaipur and Jodhpur hastened to offer their submission
to the chief who combined the prestige of the house of Timur with the glamour of the fire-eating
Feringhee. Sindhia (to borrow a phrase from the gambling table) backed his luck. He gave de
Boigne an increased assignment of territory; and authority to raise two more brigades, on which
by express permission of the blind old Shah was conferred the title of Army of the Empire.
The territory assigned to the General extended from Mathra to Dehli, and over the whole Upper
Doab, yielding a total revenue of about twenty-two lakhs of rupees, a large sum for those days.
After liquidating the pay of the troops it was estimated that this left a balance in his favour
of about 40,000 rupees a year besides his pay, and very large perquisites. He also exercised
unlimited civil and military jurisdiction. His headquarters were at Aligarh, where he exercised
quasi-royal sway over the whole surrounding country. Some further work, however, awaited de
Boigne before he finally retired into purely civil administration. Among the last to hold out
against the good fortune and genius of Sindhia was the founder of the present state of Indore,
Jeswant Rao Holkar, who resolved to try the effect upon his rival of a blow struck with his
own weapons. The Duke of Wellington in 1803 took much the same view of this fondness on the
part of the Mahrattas for European discipline and fashions in war as that vainly urged on Sheodasheo
Rao by Malhar Rao Holkar in 1760. "Sindhia's armies had actually," so wrote General Wellesley
in 1803, "been brought to a very favourable state of discipline, and his power had become formidable
by the exertions of European officers in his service; but, I think, it is much to be doubted
whether his power — or rather that of the whole Mahratta nation — would not have been more
formidable if they had never had a European or an infantry soldier in their service, and had
carried on their operations in the manner of the original Mahrattas, only by means of cavalry."
Malhar Rao and Wellesley were two great authorities; but, in any case, when once any State
had introduced the new system, all its rivals were compelled to do likewise, and the State
which did it with the most energy prevailed. The citation above given is from Owen's Selections,
p. 336.

This was the hey-day of European adventure in the East. France, still under the influence of
feudal institutions, continued to send out brave young men who longed, while providing for
themselves, to restore the influence of their country in India, shaken as it had been by the
ill success of Dupleix, Lally, and Law. The native princes, on the other side, were not backward
in availing themselves of this new species of wardog. A Frenchman was worth his weight in gold;
even an Anglo-Indian — the race is now relegated to the office-stool — fetched, we may say,
his weight in silver. But men of the latter class, though not deficient in valour, and not
without special advantages from their knowledge of the people and their language, were not
so fully trusted. Doubtless the French officers would be more serviceable in a war with England;
and that contingency was probably never long absent from the thoughts of the native chiefs.
With the exception of the Musalman Viceroys of Audh and the Deccan, every native power dreaded
the advance of the English, and desired their destruction. In fact, now that the Empire was
fallen, a general Hindu revival had taken its place, the end of which was not seen till the
Sikhs were finally subdued in 1849.

Holkar's new army was commanded by a French officer, whose name variously spelt, was perhaps
du Drenec. He was the son of an officer in the Royal navy of France, and is described as an
accomplished and courteous gentleman. He usually receives from contemporary writers the title
of Chevalier, and his conduct sustained the character of a well-born soldier.

1792. — The Patel lost no time in pushing his success in the only quarter where he now had
anything to fear. The combination of the Nana in the cabinet and Holkar with an Europeanized
army in the field, was a serious menace to his power; and with enterprising versatility he
resolved at once to counteract it. With this view he obtained khillats of investiture, for
the Peshwa and for himself, from the Emperor, and departed for Puna, where he arrived after
a slow triumphal progress, on the 11th of June, 1792. On the 20th of the same month the ceremony
took place with circumstances of great magnificence; the successful deputy endeavouring to
propitiate the hostility of the Nana by appearing in his favourite character of the Beadle,
and carrying the Peshwa's slippers, while the latter sate splendidly attired upon a counterfeit
of the peacock throne. All men have their foibles, and Sindhia's was histrionism, which imposed
on no one. The thin assumption of humility by a dictator was despised, and the splendid caparisons
of the nominal chief were ridiculed by the Mahrattas and Brahmans of the old school.

Meanwhile Holkar saw his opportunity and struck his blow. Profiting by the absence of his rival,
he for the first time since 1773, advanced on Hindustan; and summoning Ismail Beg like an evil
spirit from his temporary obscurity, he hurled him upon the country round the capital, while
he himself lost no time in forcing a rupture with Sindhia's civil deputy in Rajputana.

In the northern part of the Rewari country is a place called Kanaund; about equidistant from
Dehli and Hansi, to the south of both cities. Here Najaf Kuli Khan had breathed his last in
a stronghold of earth faced with stone, on the borders of the great Bikanir desert, among sand-hills
and low growths of tamarisk; and here his widow — a sister of the deceased Gholam Kadir — continued
to reside. A call to surrender the fort to Sindhia's officers being refused by the high-spirited
Pathan lady, gave Ismail Beg occasion to reappear upon the scene. He hastened to her aid, but
found the place surrounded by a force under the command of M. Perron, a French officer whose
name will often recur hereafter. The Beg, as usual, attacked furiously, and, as usual, was
defeated. He took refuge in the fort which he contrived to enter, and the defence of which
he conducted for some time. But the lady being killed by a shell, the garrison lost heart,
and began to talk of throwing overboard the Moghul Jonah. The latter, obtaining from Perron
a promise of his life being spared, and having that strong faith in the truth of his promise
which is the real homage that Asiatics pay to Europeans, lost no time in coming into camp,
and was sent into confinement at Agra, where he remained till his death a few years later.
Francklin, writing about 1794, says that he had no chance of deliverance so long as Mahratta
sway endured at Dehli; but that he might, otherwise, still live to play a conspicuous part.
But I believe he died about four years later. His residence was in the quarters near the Dehli
Gate of the Fort, popularly known as Dan Sah Jat's house, still standing.

De Boigne meantime took the field in person against Holkar, who brought against him not only
the usual host of Mahratta horsemen, but, what was far more formidable, four battalions of
sepoys under Colonel du Drenec. The forces of the Empire, of somewhat inferior strength, brought
Holkar to action at Lakhairi, not far from Kanaund, and on the road to Ajmir. The battle which
ensued, which was fought in the month of September, 1792, was considered by M. de Boigne as
the most obstinate that he ever witnessed. The ground had been skilfully chosen by du Drenec;
he held the crest of a pass, his rear being partly protected by a wood; a marsh covered his
front, while the sides were flanked by forests. The regular infantry was supported by a strong
artillery, and guarded by 30,000 cavalry. Having reconnoitred this position from a rising ground,
de Boigne advanced under a discouraging fire from Holkar's batteries; and as his own guns —
whose advance had been unexpectedly impeded — came into action he hoped to silence those of
the enemy. But his artillery officer was unlucky that day. A tumbril being struck in de Boigne's
batteries, led to the explosion of ten or twelve others; and Holkar observing the confusion,
endeavoured to extricate his cavalry from the trees, and charge, while du Drenec engaged the
enemy's infantry. But the charge of Holkar's horse was confused and feeble (here Ismail Beg's
absence must have been felt), and de Boigne sheltering his men in another wood, soon repulsed
the cavalry with a well-directed and well-sustained discharge from 9,000 muskets. As they retreated,
he launched his own cavalry upon them, and drove them off the field. It was now his turn once
more to advance. Re-forming his infantry and guns in the shelter of the thick tree-growth,
he fell upon the left of the enemy where the regulars still maintained themselves. Raw levies
as they were, they fought bravely but unskilfully till they were annihilated; their European
officers were nearly all slain, and their guns taken, to the number of thirty-eight. The battle
was lost without retrieval, mainly owing to the inefficiency of Holkar's horse; thus vindicating
the wise, if premature, confidence of Ibrahim Gardi at Panipat more than thirty years before.
Holkar, with the remnant of: his army, crossed the Chambal, and fell back on Malwa, where he
revenged himself by sacking Ujain, one of Sindhia's chief cities.

While these things were taking place, a new rebuff was being prepared for himself by the Emperor,
from whom neither age nor misfortune had taken that levity of character which, partly inherited
from his ancestors, partly constitutional to himself, formed at once his chief weakness and
his greatest consolation. In his dependent condition, enjoying but the moderate stipend of
ninety thousand pounds a year for his whole civil list — and that not punctually paid — the
blind old man turned envious thoughts upon the prosperity of the provinces which he had formerly
ceded to his old protectors, the British. Accordingly, in July 1792, the Court newsman of Dehli
was directed to announce that despatches had been sent to Punah, instructing Sindhia to collect
tribute from the administration of Bengal. A similar attempt had been made, it will be remembered,
though without success, in 1785 (vide sup. Pt. II. c. iv. in fin. ) The present attempt fared
no better. This hint was taken certainly, but not in a way that could have been pleasant to
those who gave it; for it was taken extremely ill. In a state-paper of the 2nd of August, Lord
Cornwallis, the then Governor General, gave orders that information should be conveyed to Madhoji
Sindhia to the effect that in the present condition of the Dehli court he, Sindhia, would be
held directly responsible for every writing issued in the name of the Emperor, and that any
attempt to assert a claim to tribute from the British Government would be "warmly resented."
Once more the disinclination of the British to interfere in the Empire was most emphatically
asserted, but it was added significantly, that if any should be rash enough to insult them
by an unjust demand or in any shape whatever, they felt themselves both able and resolved to
exact ample satisfaction.

This spirited language, whether altogether in accordance with abstract right or not, was probably
an essential element in the maintenance of that peaceful policy which prevailed in the diplomatic
valley that occurred between Warren Hastings and the Marquess Wellesley. Sindhia (not unmindful
of Popham's Gwalior performance just twelve years before) hastened to assure the British Government
that he regarded them as supreme within their own territories; and that, for his part, his
sole and whole object was to establish the Imperial authority in those territories that were
still subject to the Emperor.

In this he had perfectly succeeded. The fame of his political sagacity, and the terror of General
de Boigne's arms, were acknowledged from the Satlaj to the Ganges, and from the Himalayas to
the Vindhyas. And for nearly ten years the history of Hindustan is the biography of a few foreign
adventurers who owed their position to his successes. In the centre of the dominions swayed
by the Dictator-Beadle were quartered two who had attained to almost royal state in the persons
of General de Boigne and the Begam Sumroo: the one at Sardhana, the other at Aligarh. The Chevalier
du Drenec, who had not been well used by Holkar, left (without the slightest blame) the service
of that unprosperous chief, and joined his quasi-compatriot and former antagonist, the Savoyard
de Boigne, as the commandant of a battalion. The "dignity of History" in the last century has
not deigned to preserve any particulars of the private life of these gallant soldiers; but
one can fancy them of an evening at a table furnished with clumsy magnificence, and drinking
bad claret bought up from the English merchants of Calcutta at fabulous prices; not fighting
over again the battle of Lakhairi, but rather discussing the relative merits of the slopes
of the Alps and the cliffs of the Atlantic; admitting sorrowfully the merits of the intermediate
vineyards, or trilling to the bewilderment of their country-born comrades, light little French
songs of love and wine.

Among the officers of the Begam's army there would be few congenial companions for such men.
The Brigadier, Colonel Levaissoult (or le Vasseur; it is impossible to be quite sure of these
names as manipulated by the natives of India), seems to have been a young man of some merit.
Her only other European officer who was at all distinguished was an Irishman named George Thomas,
who had deserted from a man-of-war in Madras Roads about ten years before, and after some obscure
wanderings in the Carnatic, had entered the Begam's service, and distinguished himself, as
we have seen, in the rescue of Shah Alam before Gokalgarh, in 1788. The officers of the Begam's
little army had never recovered the taint thrown over the service by its original founder,
the miscreant Sumroo, and the merits of the gallant young Irishman, tall, handsome, intrepid,
and full of the reckless generosity of his impulsive race, soon raised him to distinction.
About his military genius, untaught as it must have been, there could be no doubt in the minds
of those who had seen the originality of his movement at Golkalgarh; his administrative talents,
one would suppose, must have given some indication by this time of what they were hereafter
to appear in a more leading character, and upon a larger stage.

Some time in 1792 the partiality of the Begam for M. Levaissoult began to show itself; and
Mr. Thomas who was not only conscious of his own merits, but had all the hatred of a Frenchman
which characterized the British tar of those days, resolved to quit her service and attempt
a more independent career. With this view he retired, in the first instance, to Anupshahar
on the Ganges, so often noticed in these pages, and now, for some time, the cantonment of the
frontier brigade of the English establishment in the Presidency of the Fort William. Here he
found a hospitable welcome, and from this temporary asylum commenced a correspondence with
Appa Khandi Rao, a chief whom he had formerly met in the Mahratta army, and whose service he
presently entered with an assignment of land in Ismail Beg's former Jaigir of Mewat. In the
Mewat country he remained for the next eighteen months, engaged in a long and arduous attempt
to subjugate his nominal subjects; in which employment we must for the present leave him engaged.

In the meanwhile the Begam had been married to M. Levaissoult, according to the rites of the
ancient Church to which both adhered. Unfortunately for the lady's present reputation and the
gentleman's official influence, the marriage was private; the only witnesses of the ceremony
being two of the bridegroom's friends, MM. Saleur and Bernier.

All this time Sindhia was at Punah endeavouring to raise his influence in the Mahratta country
to something like a level with his power in Hindustan. But the situation was one of much greater
difficulty in the former instance than in the latter. In the one case he had to deal with a
blind old voluptuary, of whom he was sole and supreme master; in the other the sovereign Madhu
Rao Peshwa was in the vigour of life, and had a confidential adviser in the Nana Farnavis,
who was almost a match for the Patel in ability, and had an undoubted superiority in the much
greater unity of his objects and the comparative narrowness of his field of action. It is no
part of my task to trace the labyrinth of Mahratta politics in a work which merely professes
to sketch the anarchy of Hindustan; it will be sufficient for our present purpose to state
that the Tarikh-i-Muzafari, the Persian history to which we have heretofore been so largely
indebted, notices an incident as occurring at this time which is not detailed in the usually
complete record of Captain Grant Duff, though it is not at variance with the account that he
gives of Punah politics in 1794. The Persian author briefly states that the Peshwa (whose mind
was certainly at this time much embittered against Madhoji Sindhia) sent assassins to waylay
him at a little distance from the city, against whose attack the Patel defended himself with
success, but only escaped at the expense of some severe wounds. From the situation of the writer,
who appears always to have lived in Bihar or Hindustan, as well as from the vagueness with
which he tells the story, it is evidently a mere rumour deriving some strength from the fact
that Madhoji died at Wanauli, in the neighbourhood of the Mahratta capital, on the 12th February
of that year, in the midst of intrigues in which he was opposed, not only by the Nana, but
by almost all the chiefs of the old Mahratta party.

An interesting and careful, though friendly analysis of the Patel's character will be found
in the fifth chapter of Grant Duff's third volume. As evinced in his proceedings in Hindustan,
we have found him a master of untutored statecraft, combining in an unusual manner the qualities
of prudence in counsel and enterprise in action; tenacious of his purposes, but a little vulgar
in his means of affecting opinion. He was possessed of the accomplishment of reading and writing;
was a good accountant and versed in revenue administration; and thus able to act for himself,
instead of being obliged, like most Mahratta leaders, to put himself into the hands of designing
Brahmans. My valued friend Sir Dinkar Rao informs me that, among other traditions of high Mahratta
society, he has been told by aged men that the Maharaja was never known to evince serious displeasure
save with cowards and men who fled in battle. To all others his favour was equal, and solely
apportioned to merit, no matter what might be their creed, caste, or colour. He showed discrimination
and originality in the wholesale reform that he introduced into the organization of the army,
and the extensive scale on which he employed the services of soldiers trained and commanded
by men of a hardier race than themselves. Sic fortis Etruria crevit; and it is curious to find
the same circumstances which in the Middle Ages of Europe caused the greatness of the Northern
Italian States thus reproducing themselves in the Italy of the East.

NOTE. — The following extract from the Dehli Gazette of June 5th, 1874, gives the existing
tradition as to the domicile of the officers at Aligarh: — "De Boigne lived in his famous mansion,
called Sahib Bagh, between the fort and city, and on leaving for France he gave it to Perron,
who considerably improved the building and garden, which was well laid out with all descriptions
of fruit trees procured from distant climes. He so adorned the place that it was said by the
French officers that the garden was next to that of Ram Bagh, on the Agra river, so beautiful
was the scenery. Perron had a number of officers in his army, English, French, and Italian.
Next to Perron was Colonel Pedron, who commanded the fortress of Allygurh; this officer had
his mansion in an extensive garden, which at the British conquest was converted into the Judges'
Court, and the site is the same where it now stands. There are still some old jamun trees of
the said garden in the school compound. Chevalier Dudernaque was another officer of distinction
in Perron's Brigade; his house was on the edge of the city, it still stands in the occupancy
of Khooshwuk Allee, a respectable Mahomedan, who has an Illaqua in Sahnoul." — History of Coel.
Aligurhs, by an Old Resident. — Afghans and British — Rising of Shimbunath — Thomas independent
— Revolt of Lakwa Dada — Holkar's defeat at Indor — Power of Perron.

1794. — THE powers and dignities of the old Patel were peaceably assumed by Daulat Rao, the
son of the deceased's youngest nephew, whom he had, shortly before his death made preparations
to adopt as a son. This new minister was only in his fifteenth year, but the chiefs of the
Deccan soon becoming involved in war with their Musalman neighbours, and Takuji Holkar shortly
afterwards becoming imbecile both in mind and in body, the young man had leisure to consolidate
his power. He retained eight battalions always about him, under the command of a Neapolitan
named Filose, and continued to reside at Punah; the Begam Sumroo and her new husband were at
Sardhana; de Boigne at Aligarh; and Thomas still engaged in conquering the country which had
been nominally conferred upon him by a chieftain who had no right to it himself. Nothing can
better show the anarchy that prevailed than such a state of things as this last mentioned.

The news of Madhoji's death, and the short suspense that followed on the subject of the succession,
caused some little confusion at Dehli, and led Appa Khandi Rao to visit the metropolis, on
which occasion Thomas attended him. Here they received investiture to their several fiefs from
Sindhia's local representative, Gopal Rao Bhao; but it was not long before this chief, stirred
up, says Thomas's biographer, by the Begam and her husband, begam to tamper with the fidelity
of Appa Khandi's men, who mutinied and confined their chief. Thomas retaliated by plundering
the Begam's estates to the south of Dehli, and loyally escorted his master to Kanaund. On this
occasion Appa (who seems not to have been destitute of good impulses) adopted him as his son,
made him some handsome presents, and conferred upon him the management of several contiguous
tracts, yielding in all an annual revenue of one lakh and a half of the money of those days.

One cannot wonder at the faith in the pagoda-tree which formed so prominent an article of the
English social creed of those days, when we thus find a common sailor, at forty years of age,
attended by a body-guard of chosen cavaliers, and managing districts as large and rich as many
a minor kingdom. No doubt the price paid was high. Thomas's exertions were evidently prodigious
and ceaseless; while his position — nay, his very existence — was extremely precarious. On
the other hand, his prospect of realizing any part of his good fortune, and retiring to enjoy
it in his native Tipperary  - which must have sometimes presented itself to his mind — was
certainly not hopeful. To the degenerate Europeans of the present day, whose programme involves
constant holidays in a mountain climate, occasional furloughs to England, and, when resident
in India, a residence made endurable by imported luxuries, and by every possible precaution
against heat, there is something almost incredible in this long life of exile, where the English
language would not be heard for years, and where quilted curtains and wooden shutters would
be all the protection of the most luxurious quarters, and an occasional carouse upon fiery
bazaar spirits the chief excitement of the most peaceful intervals of repose. Such intervals,
however, were very rare; and the sense of constant struggles in which one's success was entirely
due to one's own merits, must have been the chief reward of such a life as Thomas was now leading.

Foremost among the difficulties with which he had to contend was the uncertain character of
his chief: and he was at the time of which we are treating — 1794 — strongly tempted by Lakwa
Dada to enter the service of Sindhia, in which he was offered the command of 2,000 horse. This
temptation, however, he manfully resisted, and continued true to Appa, even though that chief
was neither true to his follower nor to himself. Whilst thus engaged in a cause of but small
promise, he was once more exposed to the machinations of the Begam, who, influenced by her
husband, marched into Thomas's new district and encamped about three marches S.E. from Jhajar,
at the head of a force of four battalions of infantry, twenty guns, and four squadrons of horse.
Thomas made instant preparations to meet the invasion, when it was suddenly rolled away in
a manner which presents one of the characteristic dissolving views of that extraordinary period.

The ruffianly character of most of the officers in the Sardhana service has been already mentioned.
With the exception of one or two, they could not read or write, and they had all the debauched
habits and insolent bearing which are the besetting sins of the uneducated European in India;
especially when to the natural pride of race are added the temptations of a position of authority
for which no preparation has been made in youth. Among these men (whom Le Vaissoult, not unnaturally,
refused to admit to his dinner-table) was a German or Belgian, now only known to us by the
nickname of Liegeois, probably derived from his native place. With this man it is supposed
that Thomas now opened a correspondence by means of which he practiced on the disaffection
of his former comrades. The secrecy which the Begam continued to preserve on the subject of
her marriage naturally added to the unpopularity of Le Vaissoult's position; and the husband
and wife hurried back to Sardhana on learning that the officers had commenced negotiations
with Aloysius the son of the deceased Sumroo, who resided at Dehli with the title of Nawab
Zafaryab Khan, and had carried over with them a portion of the troops. Finding the situation
untenable, they soon resolved on quitting it and retiring into the territories of the British
with their portable property, estimated at about two lakhs of rupees. With this view they wrote
to Colonel McGowan, commanding the brigade at Anupshahar; and finding that officer scrupulous
at participating at the desertion of an Imperial functionary, Le Vaissoult, in April, 1794,
addressed the Governor General direct. The result was that Sindhia's permission was obtained
to a secret flitting; and Le Vaissoult was to be treated as a prisoner of war, allowed to reside
with his wife at Chandarnagar.

Towards the end of 1795, Zafaryab, at the head of the revolted soldiery set out from Dehli;
determined, by what judicial stupidity I cannot tell, to cut off the escape of that enemy for
whom, if he had been wise, he ought to have paved the road, had it been with silver. The intelligence
of this movement precipitated Le Vaissoult's measures; and he set out with his wife — the latter
was in a palankeen, the former armed and on horseback — with a mutual engagement between them
that neither was to survive if certified of the death of the other. The troops who still remained
at Sardhana, either corrupted by the mutineers, or willing to secure the plunder before the
latter should arrive, immediately set out in pursuit. The sequel is thus told by Sleeman, who
gathered his information from eye-witnesses on the spot: — "They had got three miles on the
road to Meerut, when they found the battalions gaining fast upon the palankeen. The ball passed
through his head, and he fell dead to the ground." This tragedy is somewhat differently detailed
in the account furnished by Thomas to his biographer, which is made to favour the suspicion
that the Begam intentionally deceived her husband in order to lead him to commit suicide. Thomas
says that Le Vaissoult was riding at the head of the procession, and killed himself on receiving
a message from the rear attested by the sight of a blood-stained garment borne by the messenger:
but it is hard to see why a man in his position should have been absent from his wife's side
at such a critical moment. Thomas was naturally disposed to take an unfavourable view of the
Begam's conduct; but the immediate results of the scene were certainly not such as to support
the theory of her having any understanding with the mutineers. She was carried back to the
Fort, stripped of her property, and tied under a gun. In this situation she remained several
days, and would have died of starvation but for the good offices of a faithful ayah, who continued
to visit her mistress, and supply her more pressing necessities.

The new Nawab was a weak and dissolute young man; and the Begam had a friend among the officers,
Saleur, whom the reader may recollect as one of the witnesses of her marriage. She was ere
long released, and M. Saleur lost no time in communicating with Thomas, whose aid he earnestly
invoked. The generous Irishman, forgetful of the past, at once wrote strongly to his friends
in the service, pointing out that the disbandment of the force would be the only possible result
of their persisting in disorderly conduct, so detrimental to the welfare of the Emperor and
his minister. He followed up this peaceful measure by a rapid march on Sardhana, where he surprised
the Nawab by dashing upon him at the head of the personal escort of horse, which formed part
of the retinue of every leader of those days. The troops, partly corrupted, partly intimidated,
tired of being their own masters, and disappointed in Zafaryab, made a prisoner of their new
chief. He was plundered to the skin, and sent back to Dehli under arrest; while the Begam,
by the chivalry of one she had ill-used for years, recovered her dominions, and retained them
unmolested for the rest of her life. The secret of her behaviour is probably not very difficult
of discovery. Desirous of giving to her passion for the gallant young Frenchman the sanction
of her adopted religion, she was unwilling to compromise her position as Sumroo's heir by a
publicly acknowledged re-marriage. She had large possessions and many enemies; so that, once
determined to indulge her inclinations, she had to choose between incurring scandalous suspicions,
and jeopardising a succession which would be contested, if she were known to have made a fresh
and an unpopular marriage.

M. Saleur was now appointed to the command of the forces; but the astute woman never again
allowed the weakness of her sex to imperil her sovereignty; and from the period of her restoration
by Thomas (who spent two lakhs of rupees in the business), to the date of her death in 1836,
her supremacy was never again menaced by any domestic danger. Having, as far as can be conjectured,
now arrived at the ripe age of forty-two, it may be hoped that she had learned to conquer the
impulse that sometimes leads a female sovereign to make one courtier her master, at the expense
of making all the rest her enemies. The management of her extensive territories henceforward
occupied her chief attention, and they were such as to require a very great amount of labour
and time for their effective supervision: stretching from the Ganges to beyond the Jamna, and
from the neighbourhood of Aligarh to the north of Mozafarnagar. There was also a Jaigir on
the opposite side of the Jamna, which has formed the subject of litigation between her heirs
and the Government in recent times. Her residence continued to be chiefly at Sardhana, where
she gradually built the palace, convent, school, and cathedral, which are still in existence.
Peace and order were well kept throughout her dominions; no lawless chiefs were allowed to
harbour criminals and defraud the public revenue; and the soil was maintained in complete cultivation.
This is considerable praise for an Asiatic ruler; the reverse of the medal will have to be
looked at hereafter.

Death soon relieved her of all anxiety on the score of her undutiful stepson, who drank himself
to death in his arrest at Dehli, leaving a daughter, who married a Mr. Dyce, and became the
mother of Mr. D. O. Dyce-Sombre, whose melancholy story is fresh in the memory of the present
generation. Zafaryab Khan was buried like his infamous father at Agra. But his monument is
not in the cemetery, but in a small church since secularized.

Thomas was now, for the moment, completely successful. The intrigues of his Mahratta enemy
Gopal Rao ended in that officer being superseded, and Thomas's friend Lakwa Dada became Lieutenant-General
in Hindustan. Appa Khandi, it is true, commenced a course of frivolous treachery towards his
faithful servant and adopted son, which can only be accounted for on the supposition of a disordered
intellect; but Thomas remained in the field, everywhere putting down opposition, and suppressing
all marauding, unless when his necessities tempted him to practise it on his own account.

About this time we begin, for the first time, to find mention of the threatening attitude of
the Afghans, which was destined to exercise on the affairs of Hindustan an influence so important,
yet so different from what the invaders themselves could have anticipated. Timur Shah, the
kinsman to whom Shah Alam alludes in his poem, had died in June, 1793; and after a certain
amount of domestic disturbance, one of his sons had succeeded under the title of Zaman Shah.
The Calcutta Gazette of 28th May, 1795, thus notices the new ruler:—

"Letters from Dehli mention that Zaman Shah, the ruler of the Abdalees, meditated an incursion
into Hindustan, but had been prevented, for the present, by the hostility of his brothers.
. . . . We are glad to hear the Sikhs have made no irruption into the Doab this season."

This Zaman Shah is the same who died, many years later, a blind pensioner of the English at
Ludiana; and for the restoration of whose dynasty, among other objects, the British expedition
to Kabul in 1839 took place.

To this period also belongs the unsuccessful attempt to revive Musalman power in the South
of India, in which the Nizam of the Deccan engaged with the aid of his French General, the
famous Raymond. The battle fought at Kardla, near Ahmadnagar, on the 12th March, 1795, is remarkable
for the number of Europeans and their trained followers who took part on either side. On the
Nizam's side, besides a vast force of horse and foot of the ordinary Asiatic kind, there were
no less than 17,000 infantry under Raymond, backed by a large force of regular cavalry and
artillery. The Mahrattas had 10,000 regulars under Perron, 5,000 under Filose, 3,000 under
Hessing, 4,500 under du Drenec and Boyd. An animated account of this battle will be found in
Colonel Malleson's excellent book, The Final Struggles of the French in India, in which, with
admirable research and spirit, the gallant author has done justice to the efforts of the brave
Frenchmen by whom British victory was so often checked in its earlier flights. The power of
the Musalmans was completely broken by Perron and his associates on this occasion. It is further
remarkable as the last general assembly of the chiefs of the Mahratta nation under the authority
of their Peshwa (Grant Duff, ii. 284-8). The Moghul power in the Deccan was only preserved
by the intervention of the British, and has ever since been dependent on their Government.

Early in 1796 a change was perceptible in the health of General de Boigne, which time and war
had tried for nearly a quarter of a century in various regions. He had amassed a considerable
fortune by his exertions during this long period, and entertained the natural desire of retiring
with it to his native country. Sindhia had no valid ground for opposing his departure, and
he set out for Calcutta somewhere about the middle of the year, accompanied by his personal
escort — mounted upon choice Persian horses — who were afterwards taken into the British Governor's
body-guard. In the profession of a soldier of fortune, rising latterly to almost unbounded
power, de Boigne had shown all the virtues that are consistent with the situation. By simultaneous
attention to his own private affairs he amassed a fortune of nearly half a million sterling,
which he was fortunate enough to land in his own country, where it must have seemed enormous.
He lived for many years after as a private gentleman in Savoy, with the title of Count, and
visitors from India were always welcome and sure of being hospitably entertained by the veteran
with stories of Mahratta warfare. On the 1st February, 1797, he was succeeded, after some brief
intermediate arrangements, by M. Perron, an officer of whom we have already had some glimpses,
and whom de Boigne considered as a steady man and a brave soldier. Like Thomas, he had come
to India in some humble capacity on board a man-of-war, and had first joined the native service
under Mr. Sangster, as a non-commissioned officer. De Boigne gave him a company in the first
force which he raised, with the title of Captain-Lieut. On the absconding of Lestonneaux, in
1788, as above described — when that officer was supposed to have appropriated the plunder
taken by Gholam Kadir on his flight from Meerut — Perron succeeded to the command of a battalion,
from which, after the successes of the army against Ismail Beg, he rose to the charge of a
brigade. He was now placed over the whole regular army, to which the civil administration,
on de Boigne's system, was inseparably attached, and under him were brigades commanded by Colonel
du Drenec and by other officers, chiefly French, of whom we shall see more hereafter. De Boigne,
while entertaining a high opinion of Perron's professional ability, seems to have misdoubted
his political wisdom, for both Fraser and Duff assert that he solemnly warned Daulat Rao Sindhia
against those very excesses into which — partly by Perron's counsel — he was, not long after,
led. "Never to offend the British, and sooner to discharge his troops than risk a war," was
the gist of the General's parting advice.

Sindhia remaining in the Deccan, in pursuance of his uncle's plan of managing both countries
at once, the ax-Sergeant became very influential in Hindustan, where (jealousies with his Mahratta
colleagues excepted) the independent career of George Thomas was the only serious difficulty
with which he had to contend.

For the present the two seamen did not come in contact, for Thomas confined his operations
to the west and north-west, and found his domestic troubles and the resistance of the various
neighbouring tribes sufficient to fully occupy his attention. Scarcely had he patched up a
peace with his treacherous employer, and brought affairs in Mewat to something like a settlement,
when his momentary quiet was once more disturbed by the intelligence that Appa had committed
suicide by drowning himself, and that his son and successor, Vaman Rao, was showing signs of
an intention to imitate the conduct of the deceased in its untruthful and unreliable character.
With the exception of a brief campaign in the Upper Doab, in which the fortified towns of Shamli
and Lakhnaoti had rebelled, Thomas does not appear to have had any active employment until
he finally broke with Vaman Rao.

The rebellion of the Governor of Shamli (which Thomas suppressed with vigour) seems to have
been connected with the movements of the restless Rohillas of the Najibabad clan, whose chief
was now Bhanbu Khan, brother of the late Gholam Kadir, and an exile among the Sikhs since the
death of his brother and the destruction of the Fort of Ghausgarh. Profiting by the long-continued
absence of Sindhia, he re-opened that correspondence with the Afghans which always formed part
of a Mohamadan attempt in Hindustan, and appealed, at the same time, to the avarice of the
Sikhs, which had abundantly recovered its temporary repulse by Mirza Najaf in 1779. The grandson
of the famous Abdali soon appeared at Peshawar at the head of 33,000 Afghan horse. But the
Sikhs and Afghans soon quarrelled; a desperate battle was fought between them at Amritsar,
in which, after a futile cannonade, the Sikhs flung themselves upon Zaman's army in the most
reckless manner. The aggregate losses were estimated at 35,000 men. The Shah retreated upon
Lahor; and the disordered state of the Doab began to be reflected in the only half-subdued
conquests of the Viceroy of Audh in Rohilkand.

At this crisis 'Asaf-ud-daulah, the then holder of this title, died at Lucknow, 21st September,
1797, and it was by no means certain that his successor, Vazir 'Ali, would not join in the
reviving struggles of his co-religionists. It must be remembered that, in virtue of its subjugation
to the Sindhias, the Empire was now regarded as a Hindu power, and that Shia and Sunni might
well be expected to join, as against the Mahrattas or the English, however they might afterwards
quarrel over the spoil, should success attend their efforts. Furthermore it is to be noted
that in this or the following year the Afghans, under Zaman Shah, were known to be advancing
again upon Lahor.

This state of things appeared to the then Governor-General of the British possessions sufficiently
serious to warrant an active interposition. The calm courage of Sir John Shore, who held a
local investigation into what, to most politicians, might have appeared a very unimportant
matter — namely, whether the heir-apparent was really 'Asaf-ud-daulah's son or not; the grave
decision against his claims (the claims of a de facto prince); his deposition and supersession
by his eldest uncle, Saadat 'Ali the Second; and Vazir 'Ali's subsequent violence, when, too
late to save his throne, he contrived, by the gratuitous murder of Mr. Cherry, the British
resident at Benares, to convert his position from that of a political martyr to that of a life-convict,
are all amply detailed in the well-known History of Mill, and in the Life of Lord Teignmouth
by his son. Shore, at the same time, sent an embassy to Persia under Mahdi 'Ali Khan, the result
of which was an invasion of Western Afghanistan and the consequent retirement of the Shah from
the Panjab. The events referred to only so far belong to the History of Hindustan, that they
are a sort of crepuscular appearance there of British power, and show how the most upright
and moderate statesmen of that nation were compelled, from time to time, to make fresh advances
into the political sphere of the Empire.

About this time died Takaji Holkar, who had lately ceased to play any part in the politics,
either of Hindustan or of the Deccan. He was no relation, by blood, of the great founder of
the house of Holkar, Malhar Rao; but he had carried out the traditionary policy of the clan,
which may be described in two words — hostility to Sindhia, and alliance with any one, Hindu
or Musalman, by whom that hostility might be aided. He was succeeded by his illegitimate son
Jaswant Rao, afterwards to become famous for his long and obstinate resistance to the British;
but for the present only remarkable for the trouble that he soon began to give Daulat Rao Sindhia.

1798. — The latter, meanwhile, as though there were no such persons as Afghans or English within
the limits of India, was engaging in domestic affairs of the most paltry character. His marriage
(1st March) with the daughter of the Ghatgai, Shirji Rao, put him into the hands of that notorious
person, whose ambition soon entangled the young chief in the obscure and discreditable series
of outrages and of intrigues regarding his uncle's widow, known as the War of the Bais. The
cause of these ladies being espoused by Madhoji's old commander, Lakwa Dada, whom the younger
Sindhia had, as we have seen, raised to the Lieutenant-Generalship of the Empire, a serious
campaign (commenced in May) was the result. Sindhia's army (nominally the army of the Emperor)
was under the chief command of Ambaji Inglia, and in 1798 a campaign of some magnitude was
undertaken, with very doubtful results.

The ladies first retreated to the camp of the Peshwa's brother, Imrat Rao, but were captured
by a treacherous attack ordered by Sindhia's general, and undertaken by M. Drugeon, a French
officer, at the head of two regular brigades, during the unguarded hours of a religious festival.
This was an overt act of warfare against Sindhia's lawful superior, the Peshwa, in whose protection
the ladies were, and threw the Peshwa into the hands of the British and their partizans.

Sindhia, for his part, entered into negotiations with the famous usurper of Mysore, Tippu Sultan,
who was the hereditary opponent of the British, and who soon after lost his kingdom and his
life before the Mahrattas could decide upon an open espousal of his cause.

1799. — The glory of the coming conquerors now began to light up the politics of Hindustan.
The Afghans retired from Lahor in January, and were soon discovered to have abandoned their
attempts on Hindustan for the present. But it was not known how long it might be before they
were once more renewed. The celebrated treaty of "subsidiary alliance" between the British
and the Nizam (22nd June, 1799), occupied the jealous attention of Sindhia, who had accommodated
matters with the Peshwa, and taken up his quarters at Punah, where his immense material resources
rendered him almost paramount. Still more was his jealousy aroused by the knowledge that, as
long as the attitude of the Afghans continued to menace the ill-kept peace of the Empire, the
British must be of necessity driven to keep watch in that quarter, in proportion, at least,
as he, for his part, might be compelled to do so elsewhere. To add to his perplexities, Jaswant
Rao Holkar, the hereditary rival of his house, about this time escaped from the captivity of
Nagpur. to which Sindhia's influence had consigned him. Thus pressed on all sides, the Minister
restored Lakwa Dada to favour, and by his aid quelled a fresh outbreak in the Upper Doab, where
Shimbunath, the officer in charge of the Bawani Mahal, had called in the Sikhs in aid of his
attempts at independence. Shimbunath was met and repulsed by a Moghul officer, named Ashraf
Beg; and, hearing that Perron had sent reinforcements under Captain Smith, retired to the Panjab.

At the same time the Mahratta Governor of Dehli rebelled, but Perron reduced him after a short
siege, and replaced him by Captain Drugeon, the French officer already mentioned in reference
to the war of the Bais.

Thomas was for the present quite independent; and it may interest the reader to have a picture,
however faint, of the scene in which this extraordinary conversion of a sailor into a sovereign
took place. Hansi is one of the chief towns of the arid province curiously enough called Hariana,
or "Green land," which lies between Dehli and the Great Sindh Deserts. When Thomas first fixed
on it as the seat of his administration, it was a ruin among the fragments of the estates which
had belonged to the deceased Najaf Kuli Khan. His first care was to rebuild the fortifications
and invite settlers; and such was his reputation, that the people of the adjacent country,
long plundered by the wild tribes of Bhatiana, and by the Jats of the Panjab, were not slow
in availing themselves of his protection. Here, to use his own words, "I established a mint,
and coined my own rupees, which I made current (!) in my army and country . . . . cast my own
artillery, commenced making muskets, matchlocks, and powder.....till at length, having gained
a capital and country bordering on the Sikh territories, I wished to put myself in a capacity,
when a favourable opportunity should offer, of attempting the conquest of the Panjab, and aspired
to the honour of placing the British standard on the banks of the Attock."

His new possessions consisted of 14 Pargannas, forming an aggregate of 250 townships, and yielding
a total revenue of nearly three lakhs of rupees, — Thomas being forced to make very moderate
settlements with the farmers in order to realize anything. From his former estates, acquired
in the Mahratta service, which he still retained, he derived nearly a lakh and a half more.

Having made these arrangements, Thomas consented to join Vaman Rao, the son of his former patron,
in a foray upon the Raja of Jaipur; and in this was nearly slain, only escaping with the loss
of his lieutenant, John Morris, and some hundreds of his best men. He then renewed his alliance
with Ambaji Sindhia's favourite general, who was about to renew the war against Lakwa Dada
in the Udaipur country.

This new campaign was the consequence of Lakwa having connived at the escape of the Bais, a
trait of conduct creditable to his regard for the memory of Madhoji Sindhia, his old master,
but ruinous to his own interests. For the moment, however, the Dada was completely successful,
routing all the detachments sent against him, and taking possession of a considerable portion
of Rajputana.

Thomas did not join this campaign without undergoing a fresh danger from the mutiny of his
own men. This is a species of peril to which persons in his position seem to have been peculiarly
open; and it is related that the infamous Sumroo was sometimes seized by his soldiers, and
seated astride upon a heated cannon, in order to extort money from him. In the gallant Irishman
the troops had a different subject for their experiments; and the disaffection was soon set
at rest by Thomas seizing the ringleaders with his own hands, and having them blown from guns
on the spot. This is a concrete exhibition of justice which always commands the respect of
Asiatics; and we hear of no more mutinies in Thomas's army.

1800. — In 1800 the sailor-Raja led his men once more against their neighbours to the north
and northwest of his territories, and gathered fresh laurels. He was now occupied in no less
a scheme than the conquest of the entire Panjab, from which enterprise he records that he had
intended to return, like another Nearchus, by way of the Indus, to lay his conquests at the
feet of George the Third of England. But the national foes of that monarch were soon to abridge
the career of his enterprising subject, the Irish Raja of Hansi. For the present, Perron marched
into the country of the Dattia Raja, in Bandelkhand, and entirely defeated Lakwa Dada, who
soon after cried of his wounds. His success was at first balanced by Holkar, who routed a detachment
of the Imperial army, under Colonel Hessing, at Ujain. Hessing's four battalions were completely
cut up; and of eleven European officers, seven were slain and three made prisoners. This event
occurred in June, 1801. But it was not long before the disaster was retrieved at Indor (the
present seat of the Holkar family), by a fresh force under Colonel Sutherland. Holkar lost
ninety-eight guns, and his capital was seized and sacked by the victors, about four months
after the former battle.

The French commander of the regular troops was indeed now master of the situation. Victorious
in the field, in undisturbed possession of the Upper Doab, and with a subordinate of his own
nation in charge of the metropolis and person of the sovereign, General Perron was not disposed
to brook the presence of a rival — and that a Briton — in an independent position of sovereignty
within a few miles of Dehli. The French sailor and the English sailor having surmounted their
respective difficulties, were now, in fact, face to face, each the only rival that the other
had to encounter in the Empire of Hindustan.

NOTE. — Thomas describes the Begam as small and plump; her complexion fair, her eyes large
and animated. She wore the Hindustani costume, made of the most costly materials. She spoke
Persian and Urdu fluently, and attended personally to business, giving audience to her native
employee behind a screen. At darbars she appeared veiled; but in European society she took
her place at table, waited on exclusively by maid-servants. Her statue, surmounting a group
in white marble by Tadolini, stands over her tomb in the Church at Sardhana.

1801. — THE end was now indeed approaching. Had the Mahrattas been united, it is possible that
their confederacy might have retrieved the disasters of 1760-1, and attained a position in
Hindustan similar to that which was soon after achieved by the Sikhs in the Panjab. But this
could not be. The Peshwa still assumed to be Vicegerent of the Empire, as well as head of the
Mahrattas, under the titular supremacy of Satara, and Sindhia affected to rule in Hindustan
as the Peshwa's Deputy. But the new Peshwa, Baji Rao — having dislodged the usurping minister
Nana Farnavis — had proceeded to provoke the Holkars. Jeswant Rao, the present head of that
clan, took up arms against the Peshwa, whose side was espoused by Sindhia; and Sindhia consequently
found himself constrained to leave the provinces north of the Narbadda to the charge of subordinates.
Of these the most powerful and the most arrogant was the promoted Quarter-Master Sergeant,
now General Perron.

As long as the last-named officer was in a subordinate position, he evinced much honourable
manhood. But the extremes of prosperity and adversity proved alike the innate vulgarity of
the man's nature.

When every hereditary prince, from the Satlaj to the Narbadda, acknowledged him as master,
and he enjoyed an income equal to that of the present Viceroy and the Commander-in-Chief of
India combined; at this climacteric of his fortunes, when he was actually believed to have
sent an embassy to the First Consul of the French Republic, instead of seriously and soberly
seeking to consolidate his position, or resign it with honour, his insolence prepared the downfall
which he underwent with disgrace.

Not content with openly flouting his Mahratta colleagues, and estranging such of the Europeans
as were not his connections or his creatures, he now summoned George Thomas to Dehli, and called
upon him to enter Sindhia's service — in other words, to own his (Perron's) supremacy. The
British tar repudiated this invitation with national and professional disdain; upon which a
strong Franco-Mahratta army invaded his territories under Louis Bourquin, one of Perron's lieutenants.
Judgment formed no part of Thomas's character; but he acted with his wonted decision. Sweeping
round the invading host, he fell upon the detachment at Georgegarh — one of his forts which
was being beleaguered — and having routed the besiegers with great loss, threw himself into
the place, and protected his front with strong outworks, resolving to await assistance from
Holkar, or to seize a favourable opportunity to strike another blow.

Events showed the imprudence of this plan. No aid came; the French being reinforced, invested
his camp, so as to produce a blockade: corruption from the enemy joined with their own distress
to cause many desertions of Thomas's soldiers, till at length their leader saw no alternative
but flight. About 9 P.M. therefore, on the 10th November, 1801, he suddenly darted forth at
the head of his personal following, and succeeded in reaching Hansi by a circuitous route,
riding the same horse — a fine Persian — upwards of a hundred miles in less than three days.
But his capital was soon invested by his relentless foes as strictly as his camp had been;
and although the influence of his character was still shown in the brave defence made by the
few select troops whom neither hope nor fear could force from his side, he was at last obliged
to see the cruelty of taxing their fidelity any farther. M. Bourquin was much incensed against
this obstinate antagonist; but the latter obtained terms through the mediation of the other
officers, and was allowed to retire to British territory with the wreck of his fortune, on
the 1st of January, 1802. He died in August, on his way down to Calcutta, and was interred
at Barhampur. He left a family, of whom the Begam Sumroo at first took charge, but their descendants
have now become mixed with the ordinary population of the country.

This extraordinary man was largely endowed by Nature, both morally and physically. During the
time of his brief authority he settled a turbulent country, and put down some crimes, such
as female infanticide, with which all the power of Britain has not always coped successfully.
It would have been profitable to the British Government had they supported him in his manful
struggles against Mahratta lawlessness, and against French ambition and ill-will.

1802. — The overthrow of Thomas was nearly the last of Sindhia's successes. Having made a final
arrangement with the Bais (from whom we here gladly part), he confined his attention to the
politics of the Deccan, where he underwent a severe defeat from Holkar, at Punah, in October,
1802. The Peshwa, on whose side Sindhia had been fighting, sought refuge with the British at
Bassein, and Holkar obtained temporary possession of the Mahratta capital. On the 31st of December
the celebrated treaty of Bassein was concluded with the Peshwa. It appears from the Wellington
Dispatches, published by Mr. Owen in 1880, that this treaty was certainly not conceived in
a spirit of hostility to Daulat Rao. He was a party directly, to the preceding negotiations
and, by the agency of his minister, "to the whole transaction." (Owen's Selection, p. 30.)
Still, as Mr. Wheeler has pointed out, this instrument tended to substitute the British as
the paramount power in Hindustan (Short History, p. 433), and "shut Sindhia out from the grand
object of his ambition, namely, to rule the Mahratta empire in the name of the Peshwa." One
of the articles of the treaty debarred the Mahrattas from entertaining French officers. Grant
Duff had seen a secret letter written shortly after the date of the treaty by the Peshwa in
which he summoned Sindhia to Punah. (II. Grant Duff, p. 384.) Then, not only supplanted by
the British as Protector of the Mahratta State, but alarmed on the score of his position in
Hindustan, Sindhia began to intrigue with the hitherto inactive Mahratta chief, Raghoji, the
Bhonsla Raja of Nagpur.

Aided by the British under the already famous Arthur Wellesley, the Peshwa soon regained his
metropolis, which Sindhia was preparing to occupy. That chief was still further estranged in
consequence of the disappointment.

Holkar now held aloof, wisely resolving to remain neutral, at least until his rival should
be either overthrown or irresistible. The Governor- General, Marquis Wellesley, apprised by
his brother and other political officers of the intrigues of Sindhia, demanded from the latter
a categorical explanation of his intentions. And this not being given, General Wellesley was
ordered to open the campaign in the Deccan, while General Lake co-operated in the Doab of Hindustan.

In order to appreciate the grounds of this most important measure, it will be necessary to
break through the rule by which I have been hitherto guided of keeping nothing before the reader
besides the affairs of Hindustan proper. The motives of Lord Wellesley formed part of a scheme
of policy embracing nearly the whole inhabited world; and whether we think him right or wrong,
we can hardly avoid the conclusion that the virtual assumption of the Moghul Empire at this
time was due to his personal character and political projects.

As far back as February, 1801, the Governor-General had co-operated in European affairs by
sending a contingent to Egypt under General Baird; though the force arrived too late to participate
actively in a campaign by which the French were expelled from that country. A twelvemonth later
the Marquis received official intimation of the virtual conclusion of the negotiations on which
was based the Peace of Amiens. In the interval he had sent his brother, Mr. Henry Wellesley,
to Lucknow, and had concluded through that agency the famous treaty of the 10th November, 1801,
by which British rule was introduced into Gorakpur, the Eastern and Central Doab, and a large
part of Rohilkand. The immediate result of this will be seen ere long.

Having inaugurated these important changes in the position of British power in the East, Lord
Wellesley now notified to the Court of Directors (by whom he had conceived himself thwarted),
his intention to resign his office, and to return to Europe in the following December. At the
same time he issued to General Lake, the Commander-in-Chief, instructions for a substantial
reduction of the forces. He added however the following remarkable words: "It is indispensable
to our safety in India that we should be prepared to meet any future crisis of war with unembarrassed
resources;" words whereby he showed that even reduction was undertaken with an eye to future
exertions. In a similar spirit he rebuked the naval Commander Admiral Rainier, for refusing
to employ against the Mauritius the forces that had been set free by the evacuation of Egypt;
laying down in terms as decided as courtesy permitted the principle that, as responsible agent,
he had a right to be implicitly obeyed by all His Majesty's servants.

And that bold assertion received the approbation of King George III., in a despatch of the
5th May; the further principle being communicated by the writer, Lord Hobart, in His Majesty's
name, "that it should be explicitly understood that in the distant possessions of the British
empire during the existence of war, the want of the regular authority should not preclude an
attack upon the enemy in any case that may appear calculated to promote the public interest."

Thus fortified, the Governor-General was persuaded to reconsider his intention of at once quitting
India, the more so since the terms in which the Court of Directors recorded their desire that
he should do so, displayed an almost equal confidence, and amounted, if not to any apology
for past obstruction, at least to a promise of support for the future. In his despatch of 24th
December, 1802, Lord Wellesley plainly alluded to the opening for extending the British power
in India which he considered to be offered by the then pending treaty of Bassein, though at
the same time he records, apparently without apprehension, the intention of Sindhia to proceed
from Ujan towards Punah to counteract the machinations of Holkar. On the 11th February, 1803,
Lord Wellesley signified his willingness to remain at his post another year, though without
referring to any military or political prospects.

But the direction in which his eye was constantly cast is soon betrayed by a despatch of the
27th March, to General Lake, conveying instructions for negotiating with General Perron, who,
from motives we shall briefly notice lower down, was anxious to retire from the service of
Sindhia. In this letter Lord Wellesley plainly says, "I am strongly disposed to accelerate
Hr. 

Above it are the imperial arms, painted on the wall, work, no doubt, by the same author of that
commemorative legend.

Thus ending all things to note in the lounge or lobby lookout Palacio
de Yuste humble.

* * *

We then entered in the Palace.

I said that is composed of four large cells, located two to each side
of a corridor gallery or through the building from west to east and
which give the four doors.

The two cells left to enter, were designed under the emperor, one
to receive, and the other to Bedroom, and communicate with each other.
The two right, which also communication with the inside, was the dining
room and kitchen.

And to this was reduced housing Caesar.

In May the Marquis proceeded explicitly to forbid the crossing of the Narbadda by Sindhia,
and to warn the Bhonsla Raja of Berar or Nagpur against joining in the schemes of the former
chief, to whom a long and forcible despatch was sent, through the Resident, Colonel Collins,
in the early part of the following month (vide W. Desp. p. 120). In this letter Colonel Collins
— while vested with much discretionary power — was distinctly instructed to "apprise Scindiah
(Sindhia) that his proceeding to Poonah, under any pretext whatever, will infallibly involve
him in hostilities with the British power." The Resident was also to require from him "an explanation
with regard to the object of any confederacy" with the Bhonsla chiefs of Berar and Nagpur,
or with Holkar. Sindhia met all these approaches with the Oriental resources of equivocation
and delay; apparently unable either to arrange with due rapidity any definite understanding
with the other Mahratta leaders, or to make up his mind, or persuade his chief advisers to
give a confident and unconditional reception to the friendship offered him by the British ruler.
Whether the latter course would have saved him is a question that now can only be decided by
each person's interpretation of the despatches above analysed.

Those who desire to study the subject further may refer to the first volume of Malcolm's Political
History, to Mill's History, and to Grant Duff's concluding volume, but will hardly obtain much
result from their labour. On the one hand, it may be presumed that, had the British Government
really been ambitious of extending their North-Western frontier, they would have assisted Thomas
in 1801; on the other hand, it is certain that they supplanted Sindhia at Punah soon afterwards,
and that they had for some years been exceedingly jealous of French influence in India. In
this connection should also be mentioned the invasion planned by the Czar Paul, in concert
with the First Consul, in 1800, of which the details were first made public in English by Mr.
Michell (Rawlinson's England and Russia in the East, p. 187). The general fact of Paul's submission
to the ascendancy of Napoleon was, of course, well known to British statesmen at the time.
There was also the fear of an Afghan invasion, which led to the mission of Malcolm to Persia,
and which was, perhaps, not the mere bugbear which it now appears. A masterly statement of
Lord Wellesley's political complications will be found in his brother's Memorandum, given as
an Introduction to Professor Owen's Selection, published in 1880. It is quite clear, again,
that Sindhia, for his part, was not unwilling to see the British espouse the Peshwa's cause
as against Holkar; while it is highly probable that his mind was worked upon by Perron when
the latter found himself under combined motives of self-interest and of national animosity.

The French General had been losing favour on account of his increasing unpopularity among the
native chiefs of the army; and had been so contumeliously treated by Daulat Rao Sindhia at
Ujain, in the beginning of the year 1803, that he had resigned the service. But hardly was
the treaty of Bassein communicated to Sindhia, when Perron consented to remain at his post,
and even, it is believed, drew up a plan for hostilities against the British, although the
latter had shown as yet no intention of declaring war, but, on the contrary, still maintained
a minister in Sindhia's camp. These facts, together with the statistics that follow, are chiefly
derived from the memoirs of an Anglo-Indian officer of Perron's, the late Colonel James Skinner,
which have been edited by Mr. Baillie Fraser. "Sindhia and Raghoji together" (Raghoji was the
name of the Bhonsla of Nagpur) "had about 100,000 men, of whom 50,000 were Mahratta horse,
generally good, 30,000 regular infantry and artillery, commanded by Europeans; the rest half-disciplined
troops. Sindhia is understood to have had more than 300 pieces of cannon. The army of Hindustan,
under Perron, consisted of 16,000 to 17,000 regular infantry, and from 15,000 to 20,000 horse,
with not less than twenty pieces of artillery." It may be added, on the authority of Major
Thorn, that his army was commanded by about three hundred European officers, of whom all but
forty were French. In this estimate must be included the forces of the Begam Sumroo.

The French plans, as far as they can now be learned, were as follows: — The blind and aged
Shah Alam was to be continued upon the Imperial throne, under the protection of the French
Republic. "This great question being decided," proceeds the memorial from which I am extracting,
"it remains to consider whether it is not possible that the branches of that unfortunate family
may find protectors who shall assert their sacred rights and break their ignominious chains.
It will then follow that mutual alliance and a judicious union of powers will secure the permanent
sovereignty of the Emperor, to render his subjects happy in the enjoyment of personal security
and of that wealth which springs from peace, agriculture, and free trade. The English Company,
by its ignominious treatment of the great Moghul, has forfeited its rights as Deewan of the
Empire." ("Memoir of Lieutenant Lefebre," 6th August, 1803.)

Lord Wellesley himself records this document, which was found in Pondicherry, it does not appear
exactly how or when; he may have had an inkling of the policy previously, but the date is sufficient
to show that he had not seen it before going to war with Sindhia. Lord Wellesley refers, about
the same time, to the magnitude of the establishment sent out to take possession of the settlements
which the French were to recover in India by the Peace of Amiens, an establishment obviously
too large for the mere management of Pondicherry and Chandarnagar.

Perhaps the memoir in question (which was drawn up by an officer of the staff sent out on that
occasion) may have expressed correctly the intentions which the First Consul held at the time;
for nobody appears to have been very sincere or much in earnest on either side at the Peace
of Amiens. And it is not impossible that the paper expresses intentions which might have been
more thoroughly carried out had not the terrible explosion in St. Domingo subsequently diverted
the attention of the French Government to another hemisphere. At all events it is a thinly-veiled
pretext of aggression; and the accusations against the English are scandalously false, as will
be clear to those who may have perused the preceding pages. Hear hear it or not, it turns out that
the conversation of those women, the tumult of human affairs that sees in the news they have,
of the ideas of passion, struggle, happiness, and natural laws written laws that these developments
planted in his soul, of what works command and vedan mystical reading, of what they say with
their silent language of flowers, birds, breezes, the sun, moon and even the shy star is forming
in the heart of a world Amparo smooth and glittering, full of universal sentiment, released in
much larger orbits, free and light, the world of the four walls of his confinement, and filled
with a concent mysterious, constantly singing this ode to a single sentence: "Fidel mine!"

And that takes years and eons, and so are souls and characters that are true depths dissimulation,
true hell of passion concentrated, or true wasteland of illusion vanished.

Well, imagine now that there comes a time when the devil, the maids, a cousin or ugly a nice
little nephew, have for half a message, and make an appointment, and opens at midnight ventanuchos
any alley, or parlor is used as the keyhole of the back door .....

Poem safe for now! Edgardo and Lucia on stage! - What a duo, what romance, what eternal wedding
of two lives!

Then comes the drama ....., and ends in tragedy or comedy: this is
in the Graveyard someone, or at the Vicarage for the two lovers.

Suppose the latter: they marry .-- Farewell, world! Goodbye, street!
Goodbye, balcony!

Goodbye, all! - Amparo has disappeared.

However, the city is married does not wither physically as the village .....

"I wish! (Say here the romantic muse). Many terrible passions to what
would be fewer Werther in the world! "

The marriage of the city is
still young and beautiful, but the gates of the cloister home closed
behind her when she returned from the temple .-- Amparo has taken
the veil of the bride: morally to be left alive: it professes the
home. On the 15th August Lord Wellesley
received a packet, which the collector of Moradabad had transmitted nearly a month before,
containing translation of a letter from the Nawab of Najibabad, Bhanbu Khan, brother of the
late Gholam Kadir, covering copy of a circular letter in which Sindhia was attempting to stir
him and the other chiefs against the English as "that unprincipled race"; and begging them
to co-operate with General Perron. War, however, had already been declared, and a letter addressed
by the Governor-General to Shah Alam.

The force with which General Lake was to meet the 35,000 Franco-Mahrattas in Hindustan, consisted
of eight regiments of cavalry, of which three were European, one corps of European infantry,
and eleven battalions of Sepoys, beside a proper complement of guns, with two hundred British
artillerymen, making a total of 10,500, exclusive of the brigade at Anupshahar.

The assembling of this force on the immediate frontier of the dominion occupied by Sindhia
and the French, had been facilitated by the treaty of the 10th November, 1801, by which Saadat
Ali Khan, whom the British had lately raised to the Viceroyship of Audh, had ceded to them
the frontier provinces above named. This cession was made in commutation for the subsidy which
the Nawab had been required to pay for the maintenance of the force by which he was supported
against his own subjects. The Peshwa had previously ceded a portion of Bundelkand by the treaty
of Bassein, and the red colour was thus surely, if slowly, creeping over the map of India.
Perron resisted the cession of the new frontier under the treaty of Lucknow. The "Old Resident"
makes the following note on the subject: — "When the British came to Sasnee, which was ceded
by the Nawab Wuzier of Lucknow by a treaty in 1802 to Government, the Pergunnahs of Sasnee,
Akberabad, Jellalee, and Secundra came under British rule, but not without much bloodshed in
the sieges of Sasnee, Bijey Gurh and Kuchoura fortresses; in all these places we buried the
remains of British officers who first shed their blood for their King and country. At Sasnee
the masonry graves in a decayed condition are still to be seen. At Bijey Gurh they are in the
low 'Duhur' lands apart from the Fort, and at the Kuchoura in Locus Kanugla, lies the tomb
of Major Naivve, Commanding the 2nd Cavalry, who was shot whilst leading his men to the assault.
A surviving relation of the above officer had a monument built in 1853 at Bhudwas, on the Trunk
Road, with the original tablet which was torn off from the tomb by the villagers, and by chance
discovered by a European overseer of the roads after a lapse of fifty years."

In Sindhia's armies there were, as we have seen, a number of officers who were not Frenchmen.
These were mostly half-castes, or (to use a term subsequently invented) Eurasians, Europeo-Asiatics,
or persons of mixed blood; in other words, the offspring of connections which British officers
in those days often formed with native females. Nearly all these officers, whether British
or half-British, were upon this occasion discharged from the service by Perron, who had probably
very good reason to believe that they would not join in fighting against the army of their
own sovereign. Carnegie, Stewart, Ferguson, Lucan, two Skinners, Scott, Birch, and Woodville,
are the only names recorded, but there may have been others also who were dismissed from the
army at Perron's disposal. The prospects of those who were absent on duty in the Deccan, and
elsewhere, soon became far more serious. Though not at present dismissed, they were mostly
reserved for a still harder fate. Holkar beheaded Colonel Vickers and seven others; Captain
Mackenzie and several more were confined, and subsequently massacred, by orders of Sindhia;
others perished "in wild Mahratta battle," fighting for money in causes not their own, nor
of the smallest importance to the world. General Wellesley complained, after the battle of
Assai, of "Sindhia's English officers." He says that his wounded men heard them give orders
for their massacre as they lay upon the field, and promises to send up a list of their names
after full inquiry (Owen, 311). No such list has ever been heard of; and it appears, from Lewis
F. Smith's memoir, that the European officers there present were all French, or Italian, or
German. It is barely possible that they used English in conversing, certainly not probable;
but the story was very likely prompted by the imagination of the wounded men who saw white
faces among the enemy and concluded that they must be their own countrymen. The only European
officers known to have been engaged on the Mahratta side are Pohlmann and Dupont (both named
by Wellesley) and Saleur of the Begam's service who commanded the baggage-guard; with perhaps,
J. B. da Fontaine.

Although the French officers were now without any Christian rivals, it does not appear that
their position was a satisfactory one. The reader may refer to Law's remarks on this subject,
during the Emperor's unsuccessful attempts to the eastward. The isolation and impossibility
of trusting native colleagues, of which that gallant adventurer complained, were still, and
always must be, fatal to the free exercise of civilized minds serving an Asiatic ruler. All
the accounts that we have of those times combine to show that, whoever was the native master,
the condition of the European servant was precarious, and his influence for good weak. On the
24th of June, 1802, Colonel Collins, the British Resident at the Court of Sindhia, had written
thus to his Government in regard to Perron whom he had lately visited at Aligarh: — "General
Perron has been peremptorily directed by Sindhia to give up all the Mahals (estates) in his
possession not appertaining to his own jaidad (fief); and I understand that the General is
highly displeased with the conduct of Sindhia's ministers on this occasion, insomuch that he
entertains serious intentions of relinquishing his present command."

This intention, as we have already seen, was at one time on the point of being carried out,
and Perron was evidently at the time sincere in his complaints.

It is not however possible to use, as Mill does, these discontents — alleged by Perron in conversation
with a British political officer — as a complete proof of his not having had, towards the British,
hostile views of his own. The whole tenor of Colonel Skinner's Memoir, already frequently cited
(the work, be it remembered, of a person in the service at the time), is to show an intense
feeling of hostility on Perron's part towards the British, both as a community of individuals
and as a power in India. It is more than probable that but for the Treaty of Bassein, which
gave the British in India the command of the Indian Ocean and the Western Coast, and but for
the contemporaneous successes of Abercromby and Hutchinson in Egypt, Perron, supported by the
troops of the French Republic, might have proved to the British a most formidable assailant.
Skinner gives a graphic account of his vainly attempting to get reinstated by Perron, who said:
"Go away, Monsieur Skinner! I no trust." He would not trust officers with British blood and
sympathies.

But such was the fortune, and such were the deserts of those by whom England was at that time
served, that they were able, without much expense of either time or labour, to conquer the
half-hearted resistance of the French, and the divided councils of the Mahrattas. Holkar not
only did not join Sindhia, but assisted the British cause by his known rivalry. Arthur Wellesley
gave earnest of his future glory by the hard-fought battle of Assai, in which the Begam Sumroo's
little contingent, under its French officers, gave Sindhia what support they could; and General
Lake overthrew the resistance of M. Perron's army at Aligarh, and soon reduced the Fort, in
spite of the gallant defence offered by the garrison. Mention has been made of this Fort in
the account of the overthrow of Najaf Khan's successors by Sindhia (sup. p. 145). Since those
days it had been much improved. The following is the account of the Dehli Gazette's "old Resident."
— "The Fort of Allyqurh was made by the Jauts while the place was under the Delhi Kings. Nawab
Nujjuff Khan, the Governor, improved the fortification, and de Boigne brought it into a regular
defensive state according to the French system. Perron and Pedron subsequently added their
skill in strengthening the fortress, which commanded a wide open plain, the most part being
under water during the heavy rains on account of the lands being low." The gate was blown in
and the place rapidly stormed by the 76th, piloted by a Mr. Lucan, who was made a captain in
the British service for his treachery. He was afterwards taken prisoner during Monson's retreat
and put to death by Holkar's orders. The enemy were commanded by natives, having withdrawn
their confidence from Perron's French Lieutenant, Colonel Pedron, who was on that occasion
made prisoner by the troops. Perron himself, having first retreated upon Agra, and thence on
Mathra, came over to the English with two subordinates, and was at once allowed a free passage
to Chandarnagar with his family and his property. Bourquien, who commanded the army in Dehli,
attempted to intrigue for the chief command, but was put under arrest by his native officers;
and the Mahratta army, like sheep without a shepherd, came out to meet the advancing British
on the Hindan, a few miles to the east of the capital, on the old road from the town of Sikandrabad,
so often mentioned in this narrative. After they had killed six officers and about 160 men
by a furious cannonade, their obstinacy was broken down by the undeniable and well-disciplined
pertinacity of the 27th Dragoons and the 76th Foot; and they suffered a loss of 3,000 men and
sixty-eight pieces of artillery, mounted in the best French style. This decisive victory was
gained on the 11th September, 1803; when on the 14th the army crossed the Jamna, and General
Bourquien, with four other French officers, threw themselves upon British protection. Their
example was soon after followed by the Chevalier du Drenec and two other officers from the
army of the Deccan; and shortly after by Hessing and other European officers in command of
the garrison at Agra, which had at first confined them, but afterwards capitulated through
their mediation.

No sooner did the ill-starred Emperor hear of the sudden overthrow of his custodians, than
he opened formal negotiations with the British General, with whom he had been already treating
secretly. The result was that on the 16th, the Heir Apparent, Mirza Akbar, was despatched to
wait upon General Lake in camp, and conduct him to the presence of the blind old man, who was
the legitimate and undoubted fountain of all honour and power in Hindustan. The prince vindicated
his dignity in a manner peculiar to Asiatics, by keeping the conqueror waiting for three hours.
The cavalcade was at last formed, and, after a slow progress of five miles, reached the palace
as the sun was setting. Rapid motion was rendered impossible by the dense collection of nearly
100,000 persons in the narrow ways; and even the courts of the Palace were on this occasion
thronged with spectators, free at last. A tattered awning had been raised over the entrance
to the famous Diwan-i-Khas, and underneath, on a mockery of a throne, was seated the descendant
of Akbar and of Aurangzeb. It would be interesting to know what was the exact manner of General
Lake's reception, and what were the speeches on either side; but the inflated enthusiasm of
the "Court-Newsman," and the sonorous generalities of Major Thorn and the Marquess Wellesley,
are all the evidence which survives. According to the latter, the people of Dehli were filled
with admiring joy, and the Emperor with dignified thankfulness; according to the former, so
great was the virtue of the joyful tears shed on this occasion by the Monarch, that they restored
his eyesight — the eyesight destroyed fifteen years before by Gholam Kadir's dagger. Such is
the nature of the stones offered by these writers to the seeker for historical nourishment.

What is certain is, that the British General received the title of Khan Dauran, which was considered
the second in the Empire, and which implied perhaps a recognition of the claims of the Audh
Nawab to be hereditary Vazir; while the British Government "waived all question of the Imperial
prerogative and authority" — in other words virtually reserved them to itself. The Emperor
was only sovereign in the city and small surrounding district; and even that sovereignty was
to be exercised under the control of a British Resident, who was to pay his Majesty the net
proceeds, besides a monthly stipend of 90,000 rupees.

These conditions received the sanction of Government, and are recorded in despatches. No treaty
is forthcoming; although native tradition asserts that one was executed, but afterwards suppressed;
the copy recorded in the palace archives having been purloined at the instigation of the British.
This suspicion is entirely unfounded; no treaty was ever concluded with Shah Alam, though his
Majesty formed the subject of a clause in the treaty with Sindhia. This is of importance, as
serving to show the position to which the Court of Directors was supposed to have succeeded;
namely to that of Vakil-mutlak or Plenipotentiary Vicegerent of the Empire, in the room of
the Mahratta Peshwa and his once all-powerful Deputy. They were subjects of George III., no
doubt, but servants of Shah Alam; money continued to be struck in the Emperor's name, and the
laws then prevailing in Hindustan remained in force. The very disclaimer of all intention to
usurp the royal prerogative or assert "on the part of His Majesty (Shah Alam) any of the claims
which, as Emperor of Hindustan he might be considered to possess upon the provinces composing
the Moghul Empire," is full of significance.

On the 1st November Lake overthrew the brigade of du Drenec in the bloody battle of Laswari;
and Arthur Wellesley having been equally victorious a second time in the Deccan, Sindhia consented
to the Treaty of Sarji-Arjangaon. By that instrument Daulat. Rao Sindhia ceded, besides other
territories, all his conquests in the Doab.

Thus passed into the hands of British delegates the administration of the sceptre of Hindustan:
a sceptre which had been swayed with success as long as it protected life, order, and property,
leaving free scope to conduct, to commerce, and to conscience; nor failed in discharging the
former class of obligations until after it had ceased to recognize the latter.

CHAPTER IV.

CONCLUSION.

AFTER many blunderings and much labour, the judgment of history appears to have formed the
final conclusion that the physical conditions of a given country will always be the chief determining
agents in forming the national character of those who inhabit it; and that the people of one
country, transplanted into another, where the soil and the sun act in a manner to which they
have not been accustomed, will, in the course of a few generations, exhibit habits of mind
and body very different to what characterized them in their original seats.

It is therefore without legitimate cause for surprise that we hear from scholars that the feeble
folk of Hindustan are the direct and often unmixed representatives of the dominant races of
the world. To begin with the Hindus: the Brahmans and some of the other classes are believed
to be descended from the brave and civilized peoples of ancient Asia, of whom sacred and profane
writers make such frequent mention, of some of the founders of Nineveh and Babylon, and of
the later empire of the Medes and Persians, which was on the eve of subjugating Europe when
stopped by the Greeks at Marathon and Salamis. Nay, more, the ancient Greeks and Romans themselves,
together with the modern inhabitants of Europe, are alike descended from the same grand stock.

The Mohamadans, again, are mainly of three noble tribes. The earlier Mohamadan invaders of
India belonged to the victorious Arabian warriors of the Crescent, or to their early allies,
the bold mountaineers of Ghazni and of Ghor; and their descendants are still to be found in
India, chiefly under the names respectively of Shaikh and Pathan. A few Saiyids will also be
found of this stock.

In later days came hordes of Turks and Mongols (Tartars as they are generically though inaccurately
called by Europeans), the people of Janghiz and of Timur, terrible us the locusts of prophecy
— the land before them like the garden of Eden, and behind them a desolate wilderness.

To these, again, succeeded many Persians, chiefly Saiyids, or so-called descendants of the
Prophet; a later race of Afghans, also called Pathans, and a fresh inroad of Tartars (converted
to Islam) who finally founded the Moghul Empire. Under the regime thus established the civilization
of India assumed a Persian type; and the term "Moghul" in the present day, in India signifies
rather a Persian than a Turkman or Tartar. They add the word "Beg" to their names, and are
usually of the Shiah denomination; as also are the descendants of the Persian Saiyids. The
Saiyids of Arab origin take the title of "Mir;" the Pathans are commonly known by the affix
"Khan." All but the offspring of converted Hindus represent foreign invasions by races more
warlike than the people of India.

All these mighty conquerors, one after another, succumbed to the enervating nature of the climate
of Hindustan, with its fertile soil and scanty motives to an exertion which, in that heat,
must always be peculiarly unwelcome.

It is not, however, the heat alone which causes this degeneracy. Arabia is one of the hottest
countries in the world, but the Arabs have at one time or another overthrown both the Roman
Empire of Byzantium and the Gothic monarchy of Spain. On the other hand, the lovely climate
of Kashmir produces men more effeminate than the Hindustanis, some of whom indeed, notably
the peasantry of the Upper Doab, are often powerful men, innured to considerable outdoor labour;
their country is far hotter. But the curse of Hindustan, as of Kashmir, and more or less of
all countries where life is easy, lies in the absence of motives to sustained exertion; owing
to which emulation languishes into envy, and the competitive instincts, missing their true
vent, exhibit themselves chiefly in backbiting and malice. Whatever advantage may be derived
by Kashmiris from their climate is shown in the superiority of their intellects.

Hence, after the battle of Panipat, 1761, which exhausted the victors almost as much as it
exhausted the vanquished, and left Hindustan so completely plundered as to afford no further
incitements to invasion, little other immigration took place; and the effete and worn-out inhabitants
were left to wrangle, in their own degenerate way, over the ruined greatness of their fathers.
The anarchy and misery to the mass of the population that marked these times have been partly
shown to the reader of these pages.

But there was fresh blood at hand from a most unexpected quarter. Bred in a climate which gives
hardness to the frame (while it increases the number of human wants as much as it does the
difficulty of satisfying them), the younger sons of the poorer gentry of England and France,
then (at least) the two most active nations of Europe, began to seek in both hemispheres those
means of sharing in the gifts of fortune which were denied to them by the laws and institutions
of their own countries. Their struggles convulsed India and America at once. Still the empire
of Hindustan did not fall by their contests there; nor were the valour and ambition of the
new comers the only causes of its fall when at last the catastrophe arrived. But when, to predisposing
causes, there was now added the grossest incompetence on the part of nearly all natives concerned
in the administration, it became inevitable that one or other of the competing European nations
should grasp the prize. Any one who wishes to study this subject in its romantic details should
refer to Colonel Malleson's two works on the French in India. Living under a better Home Government,
and more regularly supported and supplied, the English prevailed.

In sketching a part of the process of substituting foreign rule for anarchy, it has been my
task to exhibit the main events which caused, or accompanied the preparation of the tabula
rasa, upon which was to be traced the British Empire of India. It has been shown that the occupation
of the seaboard, and a few of the provinces thereto contiguous, long constituted the whole
of the position; and that it was only in self-protection, and after long abstinence, that the
"Company of Merchants" finally assumed the central power. Upper India, in the meanwhile, stood
to their Calcutta Government in a very similar relation to that occupied, successively, by
the Panjab and by Afghanistan in later times towards its successors. This, though absolutely
true, has been popularly ignored, owing to the accident of Calcutta continuing to be the chief
seat of the Supreme Government after the empire had become British; but the events of 1857
are sufficient to show that, for the native imagination, Hindustan is the centre, and Dehli
still the metropolis of the Empire. The idea, however, that the British have wrested the Empire
from the Mohamadans is a mistake. The Mohamadans were beaten down — almost everywhere except
in Bengal — before the British appeared upon the scene; Bengal they would not have been able
to hold, and the name of the "Mahratta Ditch" of Calcutta shows how near even the British there
were to extirpation by India's new masters. Had the British not won the battles of Plassey
and Buxar, the whole Empire would ere now have become the fighting ground of Sikhs, Rajputs,
and Mahrattas. Except the Nizam of the Deccan there was not a vigorous Musalman ruler in India
after the firman of Farokhsiar in 1716; the Nizam owed his power to the British after the battle
of Kurdla (sup. p. 229), and it was chiefly British support that maintained the feeble shadow
of the Moghul Empire, from the death of Alamgir II. to the retirement of Mr. Hastings. Not
only Haidarabad but all the other existing Musalman principalities of modern India owe their
existence, directly, or indirectly, to the British intervention.

It only now remains to notice, as well as the available materials will permit, what was the
social condition of these capital territories of the empire when they passed into the hands
of the ultimate conquerors.

Perhaps the best picture is that presented in a work published by order of the local Government,
more than half a century later, upon the condition of that portion of the country which was
under the personal management of the French general.

This record informs us that, having obtained this territory for the maintenance of the army,
Perron reigned over it in the plenitude of sovereignty. "He maintained all the state and dignity
of an oriental despot, contracting alliances with the more potent Rajahs and overawing by his
military superiority, the petty chiefs. At Dehli, and within the circuit of the imperial dominions,
his authority was paramount to that of the Emperor. His attention was chiefly directed to the
prompt realization of revenue. Pargannahs were generally farmed; a few were allotted as jaidad
to chiefs on condition of military service; [of the lands in the neighbourhood of Aligarh]
the revenue was collected by the large bodies of troops always concentrated at head-quarters.
A brigade was stationed at Sikandrabad for the express purpose of realizing collections. In
the event of any resistance on the part of a land-holder, who might be in balance, a severe
and immediate example was made by the plunder and destruction of his village; and life was
not unfrequently shed in the harsh and hasty measures which were resorted to. The arrangements
for the administration of justice were very defective; there was no fixed form of procedure,
and neither Hindu nor Mohamadan law was regularly administered. The suppression of crime was
regarded as a matter of secondary importance. There was an officer styled the Bakshi Adalat,
whose business was to receive reports from the Amils [officials] in the interior, and communicate
General Perron's orders respecting the disposal of any offenders apprehended by them. No trial
was held; the proof rested on the Amil's report, and the punishment was left to General Perron's
judgment. 

But do not confuse this guan, bare to cry, with which we have stopped peeling to the late at
night, free, alone together, the Romeo and Juliet to the low gate .-- Here discreteo disappears,
here is disputed, as in the balustrade of Verona, on whether it is lark or the nightingale
who sings, here speaks for ecstasy lovers, while the relentless clock every hour they will
notice that it took hours for eternity depleted his youth and his happiness; hours may be the last
of its placid conferences, if parental opposition prevails and the girl marries the rich,
in spite of tutear the student; hours discounted to hope, debit immortal human heart, which never
pays what he owes, but instead is always confident of the craziest lender wishes!

And since we left the temple of Cupid by this unexpected escape route of interest, seize the moment
to show that the province of Granada is the land of marriages uneven, or is of amorous liaisons between
poor and rich, wealthy and penniless .-- Hence many turkeys underground roar .-- Parents for judicial
deposit and honeymoon; but then the subject arranged grandchildren!

* * *

Miss some wealthy family of the middle class tends to copy,
and copy divinely all they do the rich and aristocratic, as I have
said that the distinction and served the manor common denominator
of those exquisite creatures, whatever their social status .-- The
force that happens is that the young low-income translates to velvet
merino the lace to tulle, satin to taffeta, organza and gro to Batista
to the Indian.

Itself Similarly, if you little theater, the Lyceum is much, if not drive, sit in chairs Career
Sunday, and if you were never in the opera, often playing to hear the bands military the cheesy
sublime .-- La Traviata Because this young lady now speak, is aficionadísima to music, and if they
can stretch their parents something to his leg, has piano and voice teacher ..... Reading
is also very much! admirable and moral criteria and art ..... Everything beautiful, everything
is high echo in their hearts, and everything pathetic many tears in his eyes.

By the way, and in parentheses: Although Granada is saved far from liberal, humble crib that has
had, although it is monarchical and religious through and through (how to forget Ferdinand
and Isabella?), and attached, therefore, the old regime, making common cause with a revolutionary,
a conspirator, who died on the scaffold for having some flag embroidery .-- Constitution will
understand that I refer to the famous Dona Mariana Pineda heroin
..... In the case of the Mariana and the Grenadines do not have opinions!

All the admired, the pity, cry and give him the true worship. For them, this tragic event is the
only thing that has occurred in Granada since the expulsion of the Moors !..... Of the rest
are not aware .....-- Ni What is the rest?

The aforementioned young ladies between worship and honor are perhaps the most enjoyable of
the charms and natural dying art of the big city. As well as the poor mean least in the present, more
earnestly cling to the past! They are, therefore, the paid to the lunch and dinner in the hotels
of the Alhambra, where, incidentally, is celebrated fausto everything that happens in people's wedding,
marriage, baptism, the degree of licensing, promotion, the transaction,
the return, the challenge frustrated ..... (We might say La Alhambra
is a venerable grandmother who report all happy and prosperity of
race, to cheer his old age.) They go up to the Torre de la Vela to
watch (once per year, on January 2, the anniversary of the Assumption),
the four cardinal mighty panoramas Granada and its surroundings.



Both of these sources of emolument were summarily condemned by General Lake; though he issued
a proclamation guaranteeing the landholders in the full possession of their legitimate rights.
But the rights of fighting one another, and of plundering traders, were as dear to the Barons
of Hindustan as ever they had been to their precursors in medi¾val Europe; and, in the fancied
security of their strong earthen ramparts, they very generally maintained these unsocial privileges.

So far back as the beginning of 1803, before war had been declared upon Sindhia, the whole
force of the British in Upper India, headed by the Commander-in-Chief himself, had been employed
in the reduction of some of the forts in that portion of the Doab which had been ceded by the
Nawab of Audh during the preceding year. The same course was pursued, after long forbearance,
towards the Musalman chiefs of the conquered provinces. In December, 1804, they had rebelled
in the neighbourhood of Aligarh, and occupied nearly the whole of the surrounding district.
Captain Woods, commanding the fort of Aligarh, could only occasionally spare troops for the
collector's support; and the rebellion was not finally suppressed until the following July,
by a strong detachment sent from headquarters. They again broke out in October, 1806, after
having in the interim amassed large supplies by the plunder of their tenantry; the whole of
the northern part of the Aligarh district, and the southern part of the adjoining district
of Bolandshahar were overrun; the forts of Kamona and Ganora were armed and placed in a state
of defence; and the former defended against the British army under Major-General Dickens, on
the 19th November, 1807, with such effect that the loss of the assailants, in officers and
men, exceeded that sustained in many pitched battles. The subjugation of the tribe shortly
followed.

The Jat Talukdars of the Aligarh district were not finally reduced to submission for nearly
ten years more; and there is reason to believe that during this long interval they had continued
to form the usual incubus upon the development of society, by impeding commerce and disturbing
agriculture. At length the destruction of the fort of Hatras and the expulsion of Daya Ram
the contumacious Raja, put the finishing stroke to this state of things in March, 1817.

It may be fairly assumed that the protection of life and property, and that amount of security
under which merchants will distribute the productions of other countries, and husbandmen raise
the means of subsistence from the soil, are among the primary duties of Government. But in
the dark days of which our narrative has had to take note, such obligations had not been recognized.

"It is a matter of fact," say the authors of the "Statistics" before me, "that in those days
the highways were unoccupied, and the travellers walked through by-ways. The facility of escape
into the Begam Sumroo's territories, the protection afforded by the heavy jungles and numerous
forts which then studded the country, and the ready sale for plundered property, combined to
foster robbery."

A special force was raised by the British conquerors, and placed under the command of Colonel
Gardner, distinguished Mahratta officer. His exertions were completely successful, as far as
the actual gangs then in operation were concerned; but unfortunately they were soon encouraged
to renewed attempts by the countenance which they received from Hira Sing, another Jat Talukdar.
This system also was finally concluded by the destruction of the Raja of Hatras; nor will fourteen
years appear a long time for the reorganization of order, which had been in abeyance for more
than forty.

The following extract from Vol. I. of Forbes's Oriental Memoirs, is the result of observations
made in a more southern part of the country between 1763 and 1783, and published, not with
a purpose, or in controversy, but in the calm evening of retirement, and at least thirty years
later. "Marre was the nearest Mahratta town of consequence to the hot wells; by crossing the
river it was within a pleasant walk, and we made frequent excursions to an excavated mountain
in its vicinity. Marre is fortified, large, and populous; the governor resided at Poona, inattentive
to the misery of the people, whom his duan, or deputy, oppressed in a cruel manner; indeed
the system of the Mahratta government is so uniformly oppressive that it appears extraordinary
to hear of a mild and equitable administration; venality and corruption guide the helm of State
and pervade the departments; if the sovereign requires money the men in office and governors
of provinces must supply it; the arbitrary monarch seldom inquires by what means it is procured;
this affords them an opportunity of exacting a larger sum from their duans, who fleece the
manufacturers and farmers to a still greater amount than they had furnished; thus the country
is subjected to a general system of tyranny. From the chieftains and nobles of the realm to
the humblest peasant in a village, neither the property nor the life of a subject can be called
his own. When Providence has blessed the land with the former and the latter rain, and the
seed sown produces an hundredfold, the Indian ryot, conscious that the harvest may be reaped
by other hands, cannot like an English farmer behold his ripening crop with joyful eyes; his
cattle are in the same predicament; liable to be seized, without a compensation, for warlike
service or any other despotic mandate; money he must not be known to possess; if by superior
talent or persevering industry he should have accumulated a little more than his neighbours,
he makes no improvements, lives no better than before, and through fear and distrust buries
it in the earth, without informing his children of the concealment." And again at Vol. II.
p. 339 — "Of all Oriental despots the arbitrary power of the Mahrattas falls perhaps with the
most oppressive weight; they extort money by every kind of vexatious cruelty, without supporting
commerce, agriculture, and the usual sources of wealth and prosperity in well-governed States."
We have further pictures of native rule, drawn in 1807, by the collectors of the newly-acquired
districts of Etawah and Koel, and to be found at pages 314 and 337 of the North-West Provinces
Selections from Revenue Records, published in 1873. Says the Collector of Etawah; — "The warlike
tribes of this country, from disposition and habit, prefer plunder to peace, and court the
exchange of the ploughshare for the sword. Foreign invasion and intestine tumults had materially
checked population; whilst the poverty of the country, and the rapacity of its governors had
almost annihilated commerce or had confined it, for the most part, to a few wealthy residents
from the Lower Provinces" (to the Babu "Zemindar"). But he of Koel is even more bold: — "The
consequences of the various revolutions which have taken place are sufficiently evident in
an impoverished country and a declining population; the form of government which has existed
has not operated to relieve the necessities of the subjects, or to improve the resources of
this extensive empire, by the encouragement of husbandry and commerce; and military life has
been embraced by a large body of the people. Habits of peace and industry have been neglected
for the profession of arms, which was more suited to the disposition of the people and to the
character of the times, and which has also tended to affect the revenue and to thin the population.
The system of rent-oppression and extortion likewise, which has prevailed, has operated with
the most injurious influence upon the country. The exertions of the landholders have been discouraged,
and means of cultivation denied them by depriving them of the fair profits of their industry.
They have found every attempt at improvement, instead of being beneficial to themselves, to
have been subservient only to the rapacity of the Government, or of farmers; and without any
inducement to stimulate their labours, agriculture as a natural consequence has languished
and declined."

Aligarh (Koel) details are the more noticeable because they relate to the part of the country
which had been first occupied by the conquering British, and still more because, having been
under the immediate management of General Perron, that part may be supposed to have been a
somewhat more favourable specimen than districts whose management had not had the advantage
of European supervision. In districts administered exclusively by Asiatics, or which were more
exposed to Sikh incursions, or where the natural advantages of soil, situation and climate
were inferior, much greater misery, no doubt, prevailed; but what has been shown was perhaps
bad enough. An administration without law, an aristocracy without conscience, roads without
traffic, and fields overgrown by forest — such is the least discreditable picture that we have
been able to exhibit of the results of self-government by the natives of Hindustan, immediately
preceding British rule.

On the whole record of the past there emerge clearly a few indisputable truths. Setting apart
the community of colour, and to a less degree of language, the British are no more foreigners
to the people of India than the people of one part of India may be, and often are, to the people
of another. Demoralized by the hereditary and traditional influence of many generations of
misgovernment and of anarchy, none of these populations have as yet shown fitness for supreme
rule over the entire peninsula, vast and thickly inhabited as it is. For example, the Brahmans
and their system fell before the fury of the early Muslims, as these, again, were subdued by
the Moghuls. When the Pathans and Moghuls in their turn became domesticated in Hindustan they
formed nothing more than two new castes of Indians, having lost the pride and vigour of their
hardy mountain ancestry. The alliance of a refugee, like M. Law, or of a runaway seaman, like
George Thomas, became an object of as much importance as that of a Muslim noble with a horde
of followers.

Nor is it to be overlooked that, in the best days of Muslim rule in Hindustan, however much
the governing class had the chief attributes of sovereignty, the details of administration
were, more or less, in the hands of the patient, painstaking natives of the land. And the immediate
decay of the Muslim Empire was preceded by an attempt to centralize the administration in the
Imperial Durbar, and to cashier and alienate the Hindu element. But the Hindus remained, as
indeed we still see them, indispensable to the conduct of administrative details.

None the less is it certain that the real, if overbearing, superiority of the Muslim conquerors
had emasculated the Hindu mind and paved the way for anarchy, which was reached as soon as
immigration ceased and degeneration set in. Holding now the position once abused and lost by
the Muslims, the British in India are bound alike by honour and by interest to mark the warning.
Called and chosen by fortune and their own enterprise to rule so many tribes and nations in
a stage of evolution so unlike their own, they have to be wary, gentle, and firm. Their office
is to advance the natives and fit them for a true and noble political life.

It does not follow that the result will be to tempt the natives to demand Home Rule. Difficulty
there will no doubt always be, and the end is hidden from our eyes. Moreover, that difficult
will be increased by the unavoidably secular character of State-education. When races lacking
in material resources are also in a very submissive and very ignorant condition they may be
kept on a dead level of immobility; and that has perhaps been the ideal of many not incompetent
rulers. But it is not one which will satisfy the spirit of the day in England. Modern Englishmen
have recognized that it is their bounder duty to impart knowledge in India. On the other hand,
their relations towards the people forbid them to attempt religious instruction. Thus the students
in British-Indian schools and colleges are in a fair way to lose their own spiritual traditions
without gaining anything instead. It is likely enough that such a system may lead to discontent.

Men who lose their hopes of compensation in another state of being, will be the more anxious
about securing the good things of that state in which they find themselves placed.

Nevertheless, of discontent there are, plainly, two sorts; and one sort tends to exclude the
other. The multitude may hanker after the flesh-pots of Egypt, or they may long for the milk
and honey of a Promised Land. In the one case they will be inclined to obey their leaders,
in the other to murmur against them. It cannot be necessary to dwell upon the application.
Let the rulers of India persuade the people that they are being conducted to light and to liberty.
Let us hold up before those laborious and gentle millions the picture of a redeemed India moving
in an orderly path among the members of a great Imperial system. That ideal may never be completely
realized in the days of any of the existing generation. But it is one that may still be profitably
maintained for the contemplation of all who aspire and work for the strength and welfare of
Greater Britain.

NOTE. — The following list of Perron's possessions is taken from the schedule annexed to the
treaty of Sarji Anjangaum (dated 30th December, 1803):—

Resumed Jaigirs, seven, yielding an annual income of ... ... ... ...  3,75,248

Talukas in the Doab, four ... ... ...   84,047

To the west of the Jamna, three districts ...     65,000

Subah of Saharanpur, eighteen ... ...   4,78,089

Formerly held by General de Boigne in the Doab, twenty-seven ..   20,83,287

To the west of the Jamna, nine ... ...  10,31,852

Grand Total, Rs. 41,12,523

APPENDIX A.

IN the foregoing pages I have endeavoured to steer a middle path between obliterating all trace
of my materials and encumbering the margin with references that appeared superfluous. Wherever
I have decided a disputed point, I have endeavoured to indicate the chief sources of information
— at least throughout the portions which form the actual history — and to give my reasons for
following one authority rather than another.

Besides the authorities — English and Persian — which have been thus cited, the following works
have been occasionally consulted:—

1. Amad us-Saudat. — A history of the Viceroys of Lucknow from the death of Farokhsiar to the
accession of Saadat Ali II., in 1797.

2. Jam-i-Jum. — Genealogical tables of the House of Timur.

3. Tasallat-i-Sahiban Anqriz. — An account of the rise of British power in Hindustan and Bengal.
By Munshi Dhonkal Singh; originally written for the information of Ranjit Singh, Thakur of
Bhartpur, about the end of the last century.

4. Hal-i-Begam Sahiba. — A little Persian memoir of Begam Sumroo, full of vagueness and error,
written four years after her death, and from traditional sources.

Much information as to the views of the British chiefs of those days lies at present inaccessible
at the Calcutta Foreign Office; and it is to be hoped that the Record Commission will ultimately
make public many useful and interesting papers.

Other information perhaps exists, very difficult to be got at, in the private archives of old
native families at Dehli. But the events of 1857 broke up many of these collections. A continuation
of the Tarikh-i-Mozafari, down to the taking of Dehli by Sir A. Wilson, would be a most valuable
work, if there be any native author possessed of the three requisites of leisure, knowledge,
and a fearless love of truth.

Some account of the Siar-ul-Mutakharin has been already given (vide Note to Part II. Chap.
i.). The author was a Saiyid of the noble stock of Taba-Taba, whose father had been employed
by Safdar Jang, in Rohilkand, during that minister's temporary predominance. The family afterwards
migrated to Patna. This celebrated history — which has been twice translated into English,
and of which an edition in the original Persian has been likewise printed — is a work of suprising
industry, and contains many just reflections on the position of the English and the feelings
of the people towards them, which are almost as true now as they were when written. The translation
of the S. u. M.. which has been mentioned in the text, was made by a French creole, styling
himself Mustafa, but whose true name, it is relieved, was Raymond. The notes are often interesting.

But my chief guide, where no other authority is cited, has been the Tarikh-i-Mozafari, the
work of an Ansari of good family, some of whose descendants are still living at Panipat. He
was the grandson of Latfula Sadik, a nobleman who had held high office under the Emperor Mohammad
Shah. The historian himself was in civil employ in Bihar, under the Nawab Mohammad Raza Khan,
so famous in the history of Bengal during the last century. To him the work was dedicated,
and its name is derived from his title of "Mozafar Jang." The work is laborious, free from
party bias, and much thought of by the educated natives of Hindustan. For access to Persian
MSS. I was indebted to the late Colonel Hamilton, formerly Commissioner of Dehli, and of his
friendly assistance and encouragement I take this opportunity to make thankful acknowledgment.

APPENDIX B.

REFERENCE has been made in the text, p. 130, to the tomb of Sumroo, in Padretola, or Padresanto,
at Agra. This is one of the most ancient Christian cemeteries in Eastern Asia, consisting of
a piece of land situated to the north of the Courts of Justice, and forming part of the original
area attached to the neighbouring township of Lashkarpur. The estate was conferred upon the
Roman Catholic Mission by the Emperor Akbar, or early in the reign of his son and successor.
It contains many tombs, with Armenian and Portuguese inscriptions, more than two hundred years
old, and promises, with ordinary care, long to continue in good preservation, owing to the
great dryness of the air and soil. The mausoleum of the Sumroo family is a handsome octagon
building, surmounted by a low dome rising out of a cornice, with a deep drip-stone, something
in the style of a Constantinople fountain. The inscription is in Portuguese — a proof, most
likely, that there were no French or English in Agra at the time of its being made. ("Here
lies Walter Reinhard, died on the 4th May, in the year 1778.") There is also a Persian chronogram.

The tomb of John Hessing, hard by, is a still more splendid edifice, being a copy, in red sandstone,
of the famous Taj Mahal, and on a pretty extensive scale too, though far smaller than the original.
The tomb, which was completed in or about the year of the British conquest, bears an inscription
in good English, setting forth that the deceased colonel was a Dutchman, who died Commandant
of Agra, in his 63rd year, 21st of July, 1803, just before Lake's successful siege of the place.

APPENDIX C.

THE following additional particulars regarding M. de Boigne are the last that the writer has
been able to obtain from an eyewitness; they are from the enthusiastic pages of Colonel Tod,
who knew the general at Chamberi, in 1826.

"Distinguished by his prince, beloved by a numerous and amiable family, and honoured by his
native citizens, the years of the veteran now numbering more than four score, glide in agreeable
tranquillity in his native city, which, with oriental magnificence, he is beautifying by an
entire new street, and a handsome dwelling for himself."

His occupation consisted chiefly in dictating the memoirs of his eventful life to his son,
the Comte Charles de Boigne, by whom they were published in 1829. This statement is also made
on the authority of Tod; but the memoir in my possession - though a second edition — lays claim
to no such authority, but is a modest compilation, derived in great measure from Grant Duff,
and originally, as appears from the "Advertissement sur cette edition," produced during the
General's lifetime. The Royal Academic Society of Savoy — of which the veteran was honorary
and perpetual President — gives the most extraordinary account of his munificence to his native
city, which comprised the complete endowment of a college, a fund of over £4,000 sterling towards
the relief of the poor, a hospital for contagious diseases, an entire new street leading from
the Chateau to the Boulevard, and the restoration of the Hotel de Ville, besides minor projects
full of wise benevolence. He died on the 21st June, 1830, and his remains received a magnificent
military funeral.

APPENDIX D.

LOVERS of detail may like the following view of Begam Sumroo's fief, as it appeared when it
lapsed on her death. The facts and figures are from the report furnished to the Revenue Board
in 1840, by the officer deputed to make the necessary fiscal settlement. This gentleman begins
by saying that the assessments on the land were annual, but their average rates about one-third
higher than those which prevailed on the neighbouring British district. In those days, the
British took two-thirds of the net rental, so we see what was left to the Begam's tenants.
The settlement officer at once reduced the total demand of land revenue from nearly seven lakhs
(6,91,388) to little more than five. But, he did more than that, for he swept away the customs
duties, which he thus describes: — "They were levied on all kinds of property, and equally
on exports and imports; animals, wearing apparel, and clothes of every description; hides,
cotton, sugar-cane, spices, and all other produce; all were subjected to a transit duty, in
and out. Transfers of lands and houses, and sugar works, also paid duty; the latter very high."

The good side of this system has been already glanced at (Part III. Chap. ii.). It was strictly
patriarchal. The staple crop (sugar) was grown on advances from the Begam: and, if a man's
bullocks died, or he required the usual implements of husbandry, he received a loan from the
Treasury, which he was strictly compelled to apply to its legitimate purpose. The revenue officers
made an annual tour through their respective tracts in the ploughing season; sometimes encouraging,
and oftener compelling the inhabitants to cultivate. In the Alpujarras, the country houses are thrown on a skirt to head the guise of mantle
and as the skirt is lined with yellow, and red petticoat is offer at a distance, in those rugged
mountains, an interesting aspect. Finally, women in several villages spend all kinds of black
tights, with the exception of the daughter of the sexton, who wear socks white, and also except
the unfortunates who have no socks.

* * *

Returning to the ladies of the upper classes, and especially to the aristocracy, it is apply
to foreign customs, or habits to be, as we have said about her dress: are an exact repetition
of the habits of Madrid's high society. Of consequence, their hours, their tastes, their amusements,
their manners, their views on all things not the soul, are arranged at the Paris meridian. And
against all heresy important in this delicate matter of the claim and ensure his frequent trips
to court, and a few others Bayonne .-- Needless to add that each
newly arrived from France has a sort of dictatorship for two or three
months.

For the implementation and display of these changeable rules of good taste, have the smart Granada
with many cars themselves, with two theaters, with excellent seamstresses, with baths in the
nearby sea coast, with its corresponding Board Ladies of Charity, and a Raffle delicious Foundling,
in public, in a large tent placed on the seafront Hall, during the famous festivals of Corpus Christi
is a copy shop in miniature Mohammed's paradise, with respect to the beauty of the houris
that reward good there actions of heroes. The Plaza de Toros rarely works, but when it works,
the Grenadines agree that they are Andalusian, and leave well as the national flag. (Ya know that
this flag is the white blanket.) I have also indicated that there is little Granada gatherings
that leave the orbit of the family. Hardly any recent dances times. But what happens when one
or the other, the noble daughter of the Genil gets dressed, turns, is presented, waltz, polka, speaking
and listening with such pleasure, distinction and gallantry, like that illustrious and beautiful
sitting Granada three years ago, which was then the first European
throne, chair left by the wayside now unemployed.

We have noted that the leading lady of Granada subordinate all their
habits to French fashion and now we make an exception occurs very
transcendental, which is included in the following indisputable

AXIOM

All
Grenadines peel the kettle.

Yes, sir, as the daughter of the Marquis same county or the doctor or the lawyer and the artisan
or farmer, so the doctor in love of the metropolis, as the gloomy city sedentary, and the fractious
local woman, all speak with the groom on the balcony, through the grating floor through the
roof, through the cracks of the door, the garden fence to sunlight, to the of the moon, to that
of the lamps and to any light, to the face of the pedestrians, when parents are happy, and down
at midnight, between one o'clock and dawn, when opposes the family!

This turkey is the turkey illegal par excellence, especially in winter sleep .-- All Boabdil in
the city, minus the bell sound sources Vela and courtyards. The street lights went out at twelve.
On the street just spend another couple to go or return. Stuck on a fence that almost borders
on the ground there is a ghost layer and fungus. Behind the grating
discerned a woman wrapped in an immense shawl and covered her head
and her face surrounded by that handkerchief of India have already
qualified semimonjil touches, semihebraica. The difficulty of every project of that
nature has been considerably increased by the events which have placed the throne of Dehli
under the protection of the Honourable Company. The Governor-General in Council further contemplated
the advantages of the reputation which the British Government might be expected to derive from
the substitution of a system of lenient protection, accompanied by a liberal provision for
the ease, dignity, and comfort of the aged monarch and his distressed family, in the room of
that oppressive control and the degraded condition of poverty, distress, and insult, under
which the unhappy representative of the house of Timur and his numerous family had so long
laboured.

Regulated by these principles and views, the attention of the British Government has been directed
exclusively to the object of forming such an arrangement for the future support of the King
and the royal family, as might secure to them the enjoyment of every reasonable comfort and
convenience, and every practicable degree of external state and dignity compatible with the
extent of our resources, and with the condition of dependence in which his Majesty and the
Royal Family must necessarily be placed with relation to the British power. In extending to
the Royal Family the benefits of the British protection, no obligation was imposed upon us
to consider the rights and claims of his Majesty Shah Allum as Emperor of Hindustan, and the
Governor-General has deemed it equally unnecessary and inexpedient to combine with the intended
provision for his Majesty, and his household, the consideration of any question connected with
the future exercise of the Imperial prerogative and authority.

The Governor-General in Council has determined to adopt an arrangement upon the basis of the
following provisions: —

That a specified portion of the territories in the vicinity of Dehli situated on the right
bank of the Jamna should be assigned in part of the provision for the maintenance of the Royal
Family. That those lands should remain under charge of the Resident at Dehli, and that the
revenue should be collected, and justice should be administered in the name of his Majesty
Shah Allum, under regulations to be fixed by the British Government. That his Majesty should
be permitted to appoint a Deewan, and other inferior officers to attend at the office of collector,
for the purpose of ascertaining and reporting to his Majesty the amount of the revenues which
should be received, and the charges of collection, and of satisfying his Majesty's mind that
no part of the produce of the assigned territory was misappropriated. That two courts of justice
should be established for the administration of civil and criminal justice, according to the
Mahomedan law, to the inhabitants of the city of Dehli, and of the assigned territory. That
no sentences of the criminal courts extending to death should be carried into execution without
the express sanction of his Majesty, to whom the proceedings in all trials of this description
should be reported, and that sentences of mutilation should be commuted.

That to provide for the immediate wants of his Majesty and the Royal household, the following
sums should be paid monthly, in money from the treasury of the Resident at Dehli, to his Majesty
for his private expenses, Sa. Rs. 60,000; to the heir-apparent, exclusive of certain Jagheers,
Sa. Rs. 10,000; to a favourite son of his Majesty named Mirza Izzut Buksh, Sa. Rs. 5,000; to
two other sons of his Majesty, Sa. Rs. 1,500; to his Majesty's fifty younger sons and daughters,
Sa. Rs. 10,000; to Shah Newanze Khan, his Majesty's treasurer, 2,50O; to Syud Razzee Khan,
British agent at his Majesty's Court, and related to his Majesty by marriage, Sa. Rs. 1,000;
total per mensem, Sa. Rs. 90,000.

That if the produce of the revenue of the assigned territory should hereafter admit of it,
the monthly sum to be advanced to his Majesty for his private expenses might be increased to
one lakh of rupees.

That in addition to the sums specified, the sum of Sa. Rs. 10,000 should be annually be paid
to his Majesty on certain festivals agreeably to ancient usage.

The Governor-General in Council deemed the arrangement proposed by the Resident at Dehli for
the establishment of a military force for the protection of the assigned territory and of the
North-Western frontier of our possessions in Hindustan, to be judicious, and accordingly resolved
to confirm those arrange meets, with certain modifications calculated to afford a provision
for part of the irregular force in the service of the British Government, from the expense
of which it was an object of the British Government to be relieved, and also for a proportion
of the European officers heretofore in the service of Dowlut Rao Scindiah, who quitted that
service under the proclamation of the Governor-General in Council of the 29th August, 1803. 

For suppose that Amparo was not married to Fidel ....., but with another, unique taste of parents
tyrants .....-- The romantic muse takes over full time for action. Is no longer Werther and
Charlotte, and this is Francesca and Paolo.

The Governor-General in Council entertains a confident expectation that the proposed arrangement
and provision will be satisfactory to his Majesty, and will be considered throughout all the
states of India to be consistent with the acknowledged justice, liberality, and benevolence
of the British Government.

The Governor-General in Council also confidently trusts that the proposed arrangement will
be sanctioned by the approbation of your honourable Committee, and of the honourable the Court
of Directors.

We have the honour to be,

HONOURABLE SIRS,

Your most faithful, humble servants,

(Signed)

WELLESLEY,

G. H. BARLOW,

G. UDNY.

["Wellesley Despatches," vol. iv. p. 553.]

APPENDIX F.

Note to page 209.

SINCE printing the following indication has been found of the possible original of name printed
"Du Drenec." In the "Familles Francaises" of Count Regis de l'Estourbeillon (Names, 1886) is
a list of extinct Breton families. One of these is given as "Du Drenec-Keroulas, fondue dans
Keroulas." This was, most likely, the true orthography of the Indian adventurer's name.

