"Well, then, ride with me to Norton straightway, and you shall tell all and save me words.
Owen shall thank you also for your care for me."

"What, for letting you sit on my deck while the wind blew? Nay, but there are no thanks needed
between us. You and I have seen a strange voyage together, and it has ended well. Maybe you
and I will see more sport yet side by side, for I think that we are good comrades. Let us be
going, then, for it was in my mind that I could not rest until I had seen you safe to your
journey's end."

Then I found that he had his own horses ready for us, and two more men, well armed and mounted
also, were waiting with them on the green where I had been set down in the litter. So in a
very short time Thorgils had told his men all that he would have done about the ship, and we
were riding fast along the road to Norton, while the thawing snow told of the going of the
frost at last.

I had been gone but these few days, but each of them seemed like a month to look back upon
as I rode under the shadow of the hills that I had last seen as a hopeless captive. It grew
warm and soft as the midday sun shone on us, and the road was muddy underfoot with the chill
water that had filled all the brooks again, but I hardly noticed the change, so eager was I
to be back. Glad enough I was when we saw the village and the mighty earthworks above it, and
yet more glad when the guards at the gate told us that Owen was even now in the palace.

I left Thorgils and his men to the care of the guard for the time, while I went straightway
to the entrance doors and asked for speech with him.

"It is the word of the king that you shall have free admittance into the palace and to himself
at any time, Thane," the captain of the guards said.

So I passed into the great chamber of the palace that was used as audience hall for all comers,
and also as the court of justice.

The place was full of people, and those mostly nobles, so that I had to stand in the doorway
for a moment to see what was going on. It was plainly somewhat out of the common, for there
were guards along one end of the room. It seemed as if there were a trial.

Gerent sat in the great chair which one might call his throne at the upper end of the room,
and beside him was Owen. I thought that my foster father seemed pale and troubled in that first
glance, but I had every reason to know why this was so. Before these two stood a man, with
his back to me therefore, and for the moment I did not recognise him. On either side of this
man were guards, and it was plainly he who was in trouble, if any one. Gerent was speaking to him.

"Well," he said, "hither you have come as a guest, and as a guest you shall be treated. But
you must know that here within the walls of the place you shall abide. If you will give your
word to do that I shall not have to keep you so closely."

"This is not what I had looked for from you, King Gerent," the man said.

I knew the voice at once, for it was that of Dunwal, my fellow passenger. So the treachery
of his brother must be known, and he was to be held here as a hostage, as one might say. Gerent's
next words told me that it was so.

"If there is any fault to be found, it is in the ways of your brother. Blame him that I must
needs have surety for his behaviour. It cannot be suffered that he should go on plotting evil
against us, unchecked in some way."

Dunwal shrugged his shoulders, as if to say that all this was no concern of his.

"Shall you hold my daughter as well?" he said. "I trust that your caution will not make you
go so far as that."

Gerent's eyes flashed at the tone and words, but he answered very coldly:

"She will bide here also, and in all honour."

