As one travels through the rural districts of America and observes differences in the standards
of living he is convinced that human welfare depends very largely on economic conditions. The
broad, well-tilled fields of Iowa, surrounding large, well-built houses, big red barns and
other outbuildings, form a marked contrast with the patches of corn in irregular fields cleared
from the brush and scrub trees on hillsides in Tennessee or Kentucky, and the hovels and rundown
farm buildings which go under the name of homes for the hill people. Healthy, well-dressed,
happy children attending good schools of the most modern type in the corn belt undoubtedly
have the advantage of the boys and girls in the hills who often do not learn to read and write
before they are ten years old, if at all, and when they do go to school must be taught by poorly
trained teachers for short terms, ending before the holidays, and in one-room schools often
attended by nearly a hundred children. Religious service and leadership in the one section
under the direction of college and theological seminary men can hardly be put in the same class
with the highly emotional expression of religious impulses of the mountain section led by once-a-month
absentee pastors with no education, or, worse still, by wandering so-called evangelists of
doubtful morality. One could go through the whole list of contrasts between the economically
well-favored sections of the country and the less favored agricultural sections and in no way
would the advantage be on the side of the latter.

Efficient social and religious institutions cannot be built on poor economic foundations. So
long as a section of the country cannot afford to pay more than five hundred dollars per year
for teachers or preachers, it cannot hope to have the leadership possible to another section
where ministers to rural people can easily secure eighteen hundred to three thousand dollars
per year. Good buildings cannot be erected, nor can any of the material comforts which go to
make up the foundation of civilized life be enjoyed.

For the sake of the church, as well as the people, the church must attend to the economic foundations
of rural life. It is unfortunate for many parts of the United States that the ministry has
become so separated from real life by the mystical trend in religion that it has rendered practically
no service in laying the foundations for the continuance of the communities themselves.

The shift of population from rural to urban centers which the census records show has continued,
if anything, at an accelerated speed, indicates the seriousness of the problem. A part of the
shift is doubtless due to improvements made in methods of production. So far as this is the
cause there is no reason to be disturbed over the tendency, as it is useless to try to keep
young men and women in an occupation that does not offer opportunity for earning a living.
Part of the shift may be due to the living conditions in the country. This is but an indication
of the task of the church on the social side and can be changed as economic welfare permits.
But the fact that rural population has been leaving the farms and that agricultural lands have
been abandoned by thousands of acres, indicates that urban opportunities have far outbid the
rural in financial returns, variety of openings, and in working conditions. The farmer's income
must be increased as compared with other groups before there can be a well-balanced relatively
stable American life. Until this is achieved those who are trying to build up rural institutions
as strong as those in urban centers will be engaged in a hopeless task.

Eminent, conscientious Christian gentlemen, leaders in religious thought, and occasionally
country ministers, have accused those who maintain that the church should have a vital active
interest in improving economic welfare of trying to make hog-cholera experts out of preachers,
thus taking them away from their real tasks. It is believed that knowledge of hog cholera and
of the agencies that can help the farmer to prevent it will not injure the standing of any
rural minister. It is maintained with reference to care for economic welfare that it is the
business of the church to encourage economic improvement so far as possible (1) by giving advice
and assisting in demonstration work when no other organized agency is in a position to render
this service, and (2) by opening the way to other organized agencies to perform this service.
This is the prime business of the agricultural colleges through their extension service. But
it has been the experience of agricultural colleges that they have the greatest difficulty
in establishing relationships in those agricultural sections where their service is needed
the most. The minister of the gospel, being one of the two or three paid leaders in a local
community, enjoying a measure of the confidence of the people, and having a large part of his
time available for pastoral duties, has the opportunity and the obligation to tactfully bring
to the community the assistance of these other agencies now provided by the State. When he
has done this he can rest assured that he has accomplished something that will become the foundation
for a far higher, more satisfying rural life.

Although ultimately the problem of production in agriculture will probably be a most serious
one, because of influences such as soil-mining, deforestation, and depletion of soil through
erosion, the immediate problems are, rather, the adjustment of production to demand so that
the farmer will be on a more equitable income basis with other elements in the population.
When there is newspaper talk of again burning corn for fuel, when wool is a drug on the market,
and when farmers' organizations are urging the decrease in the acreage of cotton, it is idle
to talk of agricultural welfare being synonymous with ability to increase crop acreage or production
per acre. Agricultural colleges and other State agencies have devoted the large part of their
efforts to study of problems of production. The results of their services to date have been
to so improve production as to hasten the population movement from the farms to the cities.
This tendency to aid production to the point of exceeding equitable demand has been of economic
value to the great centers but it has not encouraged the continuance on the farm of a large
population, nor has it enabled the farmer to compete with the townsman in maintaining a satisfactory
standard of living. It would seem that the producing ability of the farmer has been his misfortune,
and that his friends who have taught him to produce more have been his worst enemies.

When a manufacturing plant closes down because it cannot sell its goods at a given price, or
when a retailer refuses to handle goods below a price believed by many to be excessive, little
is said. But when the farmer tries to adjust his production to demand by limiting production
there is widespread criticism of his conduct. There should be continuance of efforts to retain
the fertility of the soil, to improve methods of cultivation, and to prevent destruction of
wide areas through erosion. The patrimony of the nation must be preserved through wise policies
of reforestation and reclamation of waste lands. But the great immediate task is that of adjusting
production to demand so that the rural population may advance in material welfare along with
other groups. In a competitive organization of industry the farmers success is gauged by his
net income rather than by the number of bushels of corn or bales of cotton he produces.

A sinister tendency in the higher-priced general agricultural sections is that of increase
in the number of farms operated by farm tenants. Certain writers have attempted to prove that
this tendency is taken too seriously. But the evidence of the United States Census from decade
to decade indicates that the danger is real; and that the sooner a policy of control is adopted
the better.

The handicaps to agriculture through this increase are manifold. In a large proportion of cases,
as shown by studies in typical areas, the landowner does not live on a neighboring farm, nor
is he a retired parent or other relative of the tenant farmer. He lives in the neighboring
city. Consequently, the rental from the farm goes to help build up the material welfare of
the urban center. The contributions of the absentee landlord to church work go to supplement
the salary of a city pastor on a scale far beyond the competing ability of the rural church
where his land is located. His contributions to benevolences are paid for out of the income
from his four-hundred-acre farm but are credited to the city church of which he is a member
instead of to the rural church in the community where his land is located. Because of the transient
nature of his residence the tenant, who remains on the farm on the average less than two years,
has but little permanent interest in the life of the community and lacks the stability to become
a valuable factor in building up strong rural institutions. The landlord, as previously suggested,
has been known to oppose measures for consolidation of rural schools because such consolidation
might increase taxes, and has been known to threaten tenants with dispossession if they should
vote for consolidation. The constant moving of the tenant has handicapped the children in getting
a good common-school education because of the breaks in their training resulting from this
constant changing of residence.

The tenant house, with all its implications of class-distinction, has come to the country side
in increasing numbers. And slowly but gradually a landed aristocracy is growing up in rural
America as marked as the landed aristocracy based on the purchase of a few acres of Manhattan
Island several generations ago. And with the tenant has come the farm laborer, alien to the
community, transient, and as much a member of the proletariat as if he were working in a great
factory in the city. The I. W. W. movement in the wheat fields and lumber camps of the Northwest
is but the beginning of the wage-earning consciousness as it spreads out from urban centers.

The short term of tenant operation is lowering the standards of agriculture. Instead of farming
on a long-time schedule, expecting returns on a system of husbandry reaching through the years,
the tenant is inclined to produce such crops as can be disposed of at the close of the year,
regardless of the effect of such a form of agriculture upon the fertility of the soil. Tenant
contracts as yet offer little inducement for the tenant to remain permanently on a given farm
or to keep up needed improvements.

The tenant for the time being may even make larger profits as a tenant than as an owner. But
the tendency everywhere for rents to rise, and the consequent increase in the value of the
land, will ultimately bring the tenant to the position of securing from his labor on the farm
an income not much in excess of what he would receive from working as a day laborer. The result
in the long run will be that the best agricultural sections of the country will be occupied
by a population lower in ability than in a landowning section and constantly kept down by poverty.
This prediction may be deemed fanciful by some, but the writer believes that it is worthy of
the most careful consideration and study.

Since the organization of the great combinations in the oil and sugar industries during the
70's and 80's of the past century the movement toward close industrial organization has proceeded
with little interruption. Legislation has been passed designed to break up industrial combinations
and from time to time various industries have been disintegrated. But the layman has not been
able to discover that such disintegrations by court order have had any marked influence on
the progress of the fundamental tendencies toward industrial consolidation. The farmers have
been the last to get into the organization field on any extensive scale. The Grange and the
Farmers' Alliance, and later the Farmers' Union, have made attempts and, although many failures
are recorded, their work paved the way for a far larger movement toward farm organization now
under way. The tendency toward close organization of industrial groups may also be seen in
the labor movement, the American Federation of Labor and the Industrial Workers of the World
in this country, and the syndicalist movement in Europe; and in the organization of employers'
associations and the National Chamber of Commerce on the part of business men. Whatever may
be thought of the unfortunate phases of this movement toward closely organized group consciousness,
however Bolshevistic it may be said to be, it must be recognized that class consciousness has
come to stay. The old-type citizen who voted as a Republican or a Democrat and as an individual
regardless of his industrial affiliations is passing away, and to-day the business men as a
class, the wage-earners as a class, the farmers as a class, approach the leaders of both traditional
parties with their ultimatums as to what they will do if certain policies are not recorded
in their respective platforms. And the best-organized groups, those that can swing the most
votes or can produce the largest financial inducements, are the ones that get most consideration.
This may be Bolshevism, but if it is, it is a fact in American life, and we may as well adjust
ourselves to handling the situation wisely instead of lamenting the passing of the system of
individual representation which was the basis on which American government was founded.

The farmer cannot be accused of leadership in this change in the American State. Business men
and wage-earners began it, and the farmer has been forced to follow their example. The old
type individualism of the landowning-operating farmer has long handicapped the farmer in his
relations with other industrial groups. And it is with many mistakes and setbacks that he is
now endeavoring to follow the example so ably set by the multimillionaires of the other groups.
Better organization, not for exploitation but for protection and maintenance of a safe balance
of influence in economic affairs, is fully justified, and the minister of the gospel is serving
the farmer best when he encourages right and efficient organization.

The American Farm Bureau Federation, begun a few years ago through the encouragement of county
agricultural agents in order to give them a point of contact with groups of farmers and to
give local support of the county agent's work, has now taken into its own hands the task of
farmer organization. And now, with resources far beyond what could have been dreamed of a few
years ago, this organization is embarking on programs of farmers' business organization almost
too staggering in their size to be comprehended. If rightly managed, and if farmers can prove
loyal to their own organization, this movement is destined to solve many of the problems of
intergroup relationships confronting the farmers during the past few decades.

