The year finished with the disgrace of Madame de Saint Geran.  She was on the best of terms
with the Princesses, and as much a lover of good cheer as Madame de Chartres and Madame la
Duchesse.  This latter had in the park of Versailles a little house that she called the "Desert."
There she had received very doubtful company, giving such gay repasts that the King, informed
of her doings, was angry, and forbade her to continue these parties or to receive certain guests.
Madame de Saint Geran was then in the first year of her mourning, so that the King did not
think it necessary to include her among the interdicted; but he intimated that he did not approve
of her.  In spite of this, Madame la Duchesse invited her to an early supper at the Desert
a short time after, and the meal was prolonged so far into the night, and with so much gaiety,
that it came to the ears of the King.  He was in great anger, and learning that Madame de Saint
Geran had been of the party, sentenced her to be banished twenty leagues from the Court.  Like
a clever woman, she retired into a convent at Rouen, saying that as she had been unfortunate
enough to displease the King, a convent was the only place for her; and this was much approved.

At the commencement of the next year (1697) the eldest son of the Comte d'Auvergne completed
his dishonour by a duel he fought with the Chevalier de Caylus, on account of a tavern broil,
and a dispute about some wenches.  Caylus, who had fought well, fled from the kingdom; the
other, who had used his sword like a poltroon, and had run away dismayed into the streets,
was disinherited by his father, sent out of the country, and returned no more.  He was in every
respect a wretch, who, on account of his disgraceful adventures, was forced to allow himself
to be disinherited and to take the cross of Malta; he was hanged in effigy at the Greve, to
the great regret of his family, not on account of the sentence, but because, in spite of every
entreaty, he had been proceeded against like the most obscure gentleman.  The exile of Caylus
afterwards made his fortune.

We had another instance, about this time, of the perfidy of Harlay.  He had been entrusted
with a valuable deposit by Ruvigny, a Huguenot officer, who, quitting France, had entered the
service of the Prince of Orange, and who was, with the exception of Marshal Schomberg, the
only Huguenot to whom the King offered the permission of remaining at Court with full liberty
to practise his religion in secret.  This, Ruvigny, like Marshal Schomberg, refused.  He was,
nevertheless, allowed to retain the property he possessed in France; but after his death his
son, not showing himself at all grateful for this favour, the King at last confiscated the
property, and publicly testified his anger.  This was the moment that Harlay seized to tell
the King of the deposit he had.  As a recompense the King gave it to him as confiscated, and
this hypocrite of justice, of virtue, of disinterestedness, and of rigorism was not ashamed
to appropriate it to himself, and to close his ears and his eyes to the noise this perfidy excited.

M. de Monaco, who had obtained for himself the title of foreign prince by the marriage of his
son with the Duchesse de Valentinois, daughter of M. le Grand, and who enjoyed, as it were,
the sovereignty of a rock--beyond whose narrow limits anybody might spit, so to speak, whilst
standing in the middle--soon found, and his son still more so, that they had bought the title
very dearly.  The Duchess was charming, gallant, and was spoiled by the homage of the Court,
in a house open night and day, and to which her beauty attracted all that was young and brilliant.
Her husband, with much intelligence, was diffident; his face and figure had acquired for him
the name of Goliath; he suffered for a long time the haughtiness and the disdain of his wife
and her family.  At last he and his father grew tired and took away Madame de Valentinois to
Monaco.  She grieved, and her parents also, as though she had been carried off to the Indies.
After two years of absence and repentance, she promised marvels, and was allowed to return
to Paris.  I know not who counselled her, but, without changing her conduct, she thought only
how to prevent a return to Monaco; and to insure herself against this, she accused her father-in-law
of having made vile proposals to her, and of attempting to take her by force.  This charge
made a most scandalous uproar, but was believed by nobody.  M. de Monaco was no longer young;
he was a very honest man, and had always passed for such; besides, he was almost blind in both
eyes, and had a huge pointed belly, which absolutely excited fear, it jutted out so far!

After some time, as Madame de Valentinois still continued to swim in the pleasures of the Court
under the shelter of her family, her husband redemanded her; and though he was laughed at at
first, she was at last given up to him.

A marriage took place at this time between the son of Pontchartrain and the daughter of the
Comte de Roye.  The Comte de Roye was a Huguenot, and, at the revocation of the edict of Nantes,
had taken refuge, with his wife, in Denmark, where he had been made grand marshal and commander
of all the troops.  One day, as the Comte de Roye was dining with his wife and daughter at
the King's table, the Comtesse de Roye asked her daughter if she did not think the Queen of
Denmark and Madame Panache resembled each other like two drops of water?  Although she spoke
in French and in a low tone, the Queen both heard and understood her, and inquired at once
who was Madame Panache.  The Countess in her surprise replied, that she was a very amiable
woman at the French Court.  The Queen, who had noticed the surprise of the Countess, was not
satisfied with this reply.  She wrote to the Danish minister at Paris, desiring to be informed
of every particular respecting Madame Panache, her face, her age, her condition, and upon what
footing she was at the French Court.  The minister, all astonished that the Queen should have
heard of Madame Panache, wrote word that she was a little and very old creature, with lips
and eyes so disfigured that they were painful to look upon; a species of beggar who had obtained
a footing at Court from being half-witted, who was now at the supper of the King, now at the
dinner of Monseigneur, or at other places, where everybody amused themselves by tormenting
her: She in turn abused the company at these parties, in order to cause diversion, but sometimes
rated them very seriously and with strong words, which delighted still more those princes and
princesses, who emptied into her pockets meat and ragouts, the sauces of which ran all down
her petticoats: at these parties some gave her a pistole or a crown, and others a filip or
a smack in the face, which put her in a fury, because with her bleared eyes not being able
to see the end of her nose, she could not tell who had struck her;--she was, in a word, the
pastime of the Court!

Upon learning this, the Queen of Denmark was so piqued, that she could no longer suffer the
Comtesse de Roye near her; she complained to the King: he was much offended that foreigners,
whom he had loaded with favour, should so repay him.  The Comte de Roye was unable to stand
up against the storm, and withdrew to England, where he died a few years after.

The King at this time drove away the company of Italian actors, and would not permit another
in its place.  So long as the Italians had simply allowed their stage to overflow with filth
or impiety they only caused laughter; but they set about playing a piece called "The False
Prude," in which Madame de Maintenon was easily recognised.  Everybody ran to see the piece;
but after three or four representations, given consecutively on account of the gain it brought,
the Italians received orders to close their theatre and to quit the realm in a month.  This
affair made a great noise; and if the comedians lost an establishment by their boldness and
folly, they who drove them away gained nothing--such was the licence with which this ridiculous
event was spoken of!

CHAPTER XI

The disposition of the armies was the same this year as last, except that the Princes did not
serve.  Towards the end of May I joined the army of the Rhine, under the Marechal de Choiseul,
as before.  We made some skilful manoeuvres, but did little in the way of fighting.  For sixteen
days we encamped at Nieder-buhl, where we obtained a good supply of forage.  At the end of
that time the Marechal de Choiseul determined to change his position.  Our army was so placed,
that the enemy could see almost all of it quite distinctly; yet, nevertheless, we succeeded
in decamping so quickly, that we disappeared from under their very eyes in open daylight, and
in a moment as it were.  Such of the Imperial Generals as were out riding ran from all parts
to the banks of the Murg, to see our retreat, but it was so promptly executed that there was
no time for them, to attempt to hinder us.  When the Prince of Baden was told of our departure
he could not credit it. He had seen us so lately, quietly resting in our position, that it
seemed impossible to him we had left it in such a short space of time.  When his own eyes assured
him of the fact, he was filled with such astonishment and admiration, that he asked those around
him if they had ever seen such a retreat, adding, that he could not have believed, until then,
that an army so numerous and so considerable should have been able to disappear thus in an
instant. This honourable and bold retreat was attended by a sad accident.  One of our officers,
named Blansac, while leading a column of infantry through the wood, was overtaken by night.
A small party of his men heard some cavalry near them.  The cavalry belonged to the enemy,
and had lost their way.  Instead of replying when challenged, they said to each other in German,
"Let us run for it."  Nothing more was wanting to draw upon them a discharge from the small
body of our men, by whom they had been heard. To this they replied with their pistols.  Immediately,
and without orders, the whole column of infantry fired in that direction, and, before Blansac
could inquire the cause, fired again.  Fortunately he was not wounded; but five unhappy captains
were killed, and some subalterns wounded.

Our campaign was brought to an end by the peace of Ryswick.  The first news of that event arrived
at Fontainebleau on the 22nd of September. Celi, son of Harlay, had been despatched with the
intelligence; but he did not arrive until five o'clock in the morning of the 26th of September.
He had amused himself by the way with a young girl who had struck his fancy, and with some
wine that he equally relished.  He had committed all the absurdities and impertinences which
might be expected of a debauched, hare-brained young fellow, completely spoiled by his father,
and he crowned all by this fine delay.

A little time before the signing of peace, the Prince de Conti, having been elected King of
Poland, set out to take possession of his throne. The King, ravished with joy to see himself
delivered from a Prince whom he disliked, could not hide his satisfaction--his eagerness--to
get rid of a Prince whose only faults were that he had no bastard blood in his veins, and that
he was so much liked by all the nation that they wished him at the head of the army, and murmured
at the little favour he received, as compared with that showered down upon the illegitimate
children.

The King made all haste to treat the Prince to royal honours.  After an interview in the cabinet
of Madame de Maintenon, he presented him to a number of ladies, saying, "I bring you a king."
The Prince was all along doubtful of the validity of his election, and begged that the Princess
might not be treated as a queen, until he should have been crowned. He received two millions
in cash from the King, and other assistances. Samuel Bernard undertook to make the necessary
payments in Poland.  The Prince started by way of Dunkerque, and went to that place at such
speed, that an ill-closed chest opened, and two thousand Louis were scattered on the road,
a portion only of which was brought back to the Hotel Conti. The celebrated Jean Bart pledged
himself to take him safely, despite the enemy's fleet; and kept his word.  The convoy was of
five frigates.  The Chevalier de Sillery, before starting, married Mademoiselle Bigot, rich
and witty, with whom he had been living for some time.  Meanwhile the best news arrived from
our ambassador, the Abbe de Polignac, to the King; but all answers were intercepted at Dantzic
by the retired Queen of Poland, who sent on only the envelopes!  However, the Prince de Conti
passed up the Sound; and the King and Queen of Denmark watched them from the windows of the
Chateau de Cronenbourg.  Jean Bart, against custom, ordered a salute to be fired.  It was returned;
and as some light vessels passing near the frigates said that the King and Queen were looking
on, the Prince ordered another salvo.

There was, however, another claimant to the throne of Poland; I mean the Elector of Saxony,
who had also been elected, and who had many partisans; so many, indeed, that when the Prince
de Conti arrived at Dantzic, he found himself almost entirely unsupported.  The people even
refused provision to his frigates.  However, the Prince's partisans at length arrived to salute
him.  The Bishop of Plosko gave him a grand repast, near the Abbey of Oliva.  Marege, a Gascon
gentleman of the Prince's suite, was present, but had been ill.  There was drinking in the
Polish fashion, and he tried to be let off.  The Prince pleaded for him; but these Poles, who,
in order to make themselves understood, spoke Latin-- and very bad Latin indeed--would not
accept such an excuse, and forcing him to drink, howled furiously 'Bibat et Moriatur!  Marege,
who was very jocular and yet very choleric; used to tell this story in the same spirit, and
made everyone who heard it laugh.

However, the party of the Prince de Conti made no way, and at length he was fain to make his
way back to France with all speed.  The King received him very graciously, although at heart
exceeding sorry to see him again.  A short time after, the Elector of Saxony mounted the throne
of Poland without opposition, and was publicly recognised by the King, towards the commencement
of August.

By the above-mentioned peace of Ryswick, the King acknowledged the Prince of Orange as King
of England.  It was, however, a bitter draught for him to swallow, and for these reasons: Some
years before, the King had offered his illegitimate daughter, the Princesse de Conti, in marriage
to the Prince of Orange, believing he did that Prince great honour by the proposal.  The Prince
did not think in the same manner, and flatly refused; saying, that the House of Orange was
accustomed to marry the legitimate daughters of great kings, and not their bastards.  These
words sank so deeply into the heart of the King, that he never forgot them; and often, against
even his most palpable interest, showed how firmly the indignation he felt at them had taken
possession of his mind: Since then, the Prince of Orange had done all in his power to efface
the effect his words had made, but every attempt was rejected with disdain.  The King's ministers
in Holland had orders to do all they could to thwart the projects of the Prince of Orange,
to excite people against him, to protect openly those opposed to him, and to be in no way niggard
of money in order to secure the election of magistrates unfavourable to him.  The Prince never
ceased, until the breaking-out of this war, to use every effort to appease the anger of the
King.  At last, growing tired, and hoping soon to make his invasion into England, he said publicly,
that he had uselessly laboured all his life to gain the favours of the King, but that he hoped
to be more fortunate in meriting his esteem.  It may be imagined, therefore, what a triumph
it was for him when he forced the King to recognise him as monarch of England, and what that
recognition cost the King.

M. le Duc presided this year over the Assembly of the States of Burgundy, in place of his father
M. le Prince, who did not wish to go there.  The Duke gave on that occasion a striking example
of the friendship of princes, and a fine lesson to those who seek it.  Santeuil, Canon of Saint
Victor, and the greatest Latin poet who has appeared for many centuries, accompanied him. 
Santeuil was an excellent fellow, full of wit and of life, and of pleasantries, which rendered
him an admirable boon-companion.  Fond of wine and of good cheer, he was not debauched; and
with a disposition and talents so little fitted for the cloister, was nevertheless, at bottom,
as good a churchman as with such a character he could be.  He was a great favourite with all
the house of Conde, and was invited to their parties, where his witticisms, his verses, and
his pleasantries had afforded infinite amusement for many years.

M. le Duc wished to take him to Dijon.  Santeuil tried to excuse himself, but without effect;
he was obliged to go, and was established at the house of the Duke while the States were held.
Every evening there was a supper, and Santeuil was always the life of the company.  One evening
M. le Duc diverted himself by forcing Santeuil to drink champagne, and passing from pleasantry
to pleasantry, thought it would be a good joke to empty his snuff-box, full of Spanish snuff,
into a large glass of wine, and to make Santeuil drink it, in order to see what would happen.
It was not long before he was enlightened upon this point.  Santeuil was seized with vomiting
and with fever, and in twice twenty-four hours the unhappy man died-suffering the tortures
of the damned, but with sentiments of extreme penitence, in which he received the sacrament,
and edified a company little disposed towards edification, but who detested such a cruel joke.

In consequence of the peace just concluded at Ryswick, many fresh arrangements were made about
this time in our embassies abroad.  This allusion to our foreign appointments brings to my
mind an anecdote which deserves to be remembered.  When M. de Vendome took Barcelona, the Montjoui
(which is as it were its citadel) was commanded by the Prince of Darmstadt.  He was of the
house of Hesse, and had gone into Spain to seek employment; he was a relative of the Queen
of Spain, and, being a very well-made man, had not, it was said, displeased her.  It was said
also, and by people whose word was not without weight, that the same council of Vienna, which
for reasons of state had made no scruple of poisoning the late Queen of Spain (daughter of
Monsieur), because she had no children, and because she had, also, too much ascendancy over
the heart of her husband; it was said, I say, that this same council had no scruples upon another
point.  After poisoning the first Queen, it had remarried the King of Spain to a sister of
the Empress.  She was tall, majestic, not without beauty and capacity, and, guided by the ministers
of the Emperor, soon acquired much influence over the King her husband.  So far all was well,
but the most important thing was wanting--she had no children.  The council had hoped some
from this second marriage, because it had lured itself into the belief that previously the
fault rested with the late Queen.  After some years, this same council, being no longer able
to disguise the fact that the King could have no children, sent the Prince of Darmstadt into
Spain, for the purpose of establishing himself there, and of ingratiating himself into the
favour of the Queen to such an extent that this defect might be remedied.  The Prince of Darmstadt
was well received; he obtained command in the army; defended, as I have said, Barcelona; and
obtained a good footing at the Court.  But the object for which he had been more especially
sent he could not accomplish.  I will not say whether the Queen was inaccessible from her own
fault or that of others.  Nor will I say, although I have been assured, but I believe by persons
without good knowledge of the subject, that naturally it was impossible for her to become a
mother.  I will simply say that the Prince of Darmstadt was on the best terms with the King
and the Queen, and had opportunities very rare in that country, without any fruit which could
put the succession of the monarchy in safety against the different pretensions afloat, or reassure
on that head the politic council of Vienna.

But to return to France.

Madame de Maintenon, despite the height to which her insignificance had risen, had yet her
troubles.  Her brother, who was called the Comte d'Aubigne, was of but little worth, yet always
spoke as though no man were his equal, complained that he had not been made Marechal of France
--sometimes said that he had taken his baton in money, and constantly bullied Madame de Maintenon
because she did not make him a duke and a peer.  He spent his time running after girls in the
Tuileries, always had several on his hands, and lived and spent his money with their families
and friends of the same kidney.  He was just fit for a strait-waistcoat, but comical, full
of wit and unexpected repartees.  A good, humorous fellow, and honest-polite, and not too impertinent
on account of his sister's fortune.  Yet it was a pleasure to hear him talk of the time of
Scarron and the Hotel d'Albret, and of the gallantries and adventures of his sister, which
he contrasted with her present position and devotion. He would talk in this manner, not before
one or two, but in a compromising manner, quite openly in the Tuileries gardens, or in the
galleries of Versailles, before everybody, and would often drolly speak of the King as "the
brother-in-law."  I have frequently heard him talk in this manner; above all, when he came
(more often than was desired) to dine with my father and mother, who were much embarrassed
with him; at which I used to laugh in my sleeve.

