Helen was very late in coming down. She looked like a person who has been sitting for a long
time in the dark. She was pale and thinner, and the expression of her eyes was harassed but
determined. She ate her luncheon quickly, and seemed indifferent to what she was doing. She
brushed aside Terence's enquiries, and at last, as if he had not spoken, she looked at him
with a slight frown and said:

"We can't go on like this, Terence. Either you've got to find another doctor, or you must tell
Rodriguez to stop coming, and I'll manage for myself. It's no use for him to say that Rachel's
better; she's not better; she's worse."

Terence suffered a terrific shock, like that which he had suffered when Rachel said, "My head
aches." He stilled it by reflecting that Helen was overwrought, and he was upheld in this opinion
by his obstinate sense that she was opposed to him in the argument.

"Do you think she's in danger?" he asked.

"No one can go on being as ill as that day after day--" Helen replied. She looked at him, and
spoke as if she felt some indignation with somebody.

"Very well, I'll talk to Rodriguez this afternoon," he replied.

Helen went upstairs at once.

Nothing now could assuage Terence's anxiety. He could not read, nor could he sit still, and
his sense of security was shaken, in spite of the fact that he was determined that Helen was
exaggerating, and that Rachel was not very ill. But he wanted a third person to confirm him
in his belief.

Directly Rodriguez came down he demanded, "Well, how is she? Do you think her worse?"

"There is no reason for anxiety, I tell you--none," Rodriguez replied in his execrable French,
smiling uneasily, and making little movements all the time as if to get away.

Hewet stood firmly between him and the door. He was determined to see for himself what kind
of man he was. His confidence in the man vanished as he looked at him and saw his insignificance,
his dirty appearance, his shiftiness, and his unintelligent, hairy face. It was strange that
he had never seen this before.

"You won't object, of course, if we ask you to consult another doctor?" he continued.

At this the little man became openly incensed.

"Ah!" he cried. "You have not confidence in me? You object to my treatment? You wish me to
give up the case?"

"Not at all," Terence replied, "but in serious illness of this kind--"

Rodriguez shrugged his shoulders.

"It is not serious, I assure you. You are overanxious. The young lady is not seriously ill,
and I am a doctor. The lady of course is frightened," he sneered. "I understand that perfectly."

"The name and address of the doctor is--?" Terence continued.

"There is no other doctor," Rodriguez replied sullenly. "Every one has confidence in me. Look!
I will show you."

He took out a packet of old letters and began turning them over as if in search of one that
would confute Terence's suspicions. As he searched, he began to tell a story about an English
lord who had trusted him--a great English lord, whose name he had, unfortunately, forgotten.

"There is no other doctor in the place," he concluded, still turning over the letters.

"Never mind," said Terence shortly. "I will make enquiries for myself." Rodriguez put the letters
back in his pocket.

"Very well," he remarked. "I have no objection."

He lifted his eyebrows, shrugged his shoulders, as if to repeat that they took the illness
much too seriously and that there was no other doctor, and slipped out, leaving behind him
an impression that he was conscious that he was distrusted, and that his malice was aroused.

After this Terence could no longer stay downstairs. He went up, knocked at Rachel's door, and
asked Helen whether he might see her for a few minutes. He had not seen her yesterday. She
made no objection, and went and sat at a table in the window.

Terence sat down by the bedside. Rachel's face was changed. She looked as though she were entirely
concentrated upon the effort of keeping alive. Her lips were drawn, and her cheeks were sunken
and flushed, though without colour. Her eyes were not entirely shut, the lower half of the
white part showing, not as if she saw, but as if they remained open because she was too much
exhausted to close them. She opened them completely when he kissed her. But she only saw an
old woman slicing a man's head off with a knife.

"There it falls!" she murmured. She then turned to Terence and asked him anxiously some question
about a man with mules, which he could not understand. "Why doesn't he come? Why doesn't he
come?" she repeated. He was appalled to think of the dirty little man downstairs in connection
with illness like this, and turning instinctively to Helen, but she was doing something at
a table in the window, and did not seem to realise how great the shock to him must be. He rose
to go, for he could not endure to listen any longer; his heart beat quickly and painfully with
anger and misery. As he passed Helen she asked him in the same weary, unnatural, but determined
voice to fetch her more ice, and to have the jug outside filled with fresh milk.

When he had done these errands he went to find Hirst. Exhausted and very hot, St. John had
fallen asleep on a bed, but Terence woke him without scruple.

"Helen thinks she's worse," he said. "There's no doubt she's frightfully ill. Rodriguez is
useless. We must get another doctor."

"But there is no other doctor," said Hirst drowsily, sitting up and rubbing his eyes.

"Don't be a damned fool!" Terence exclaimed. "Of course there's another doctor, and, if there
isn't, you've got to find one. It ought to have been done days ago. I'm going down to saddle
the horse." He could not stay still in one place.

In less than ten minutes St. John was riding to the town in the scorching heat in search of
a doctor, his orders being to find one and bring him back if he had to be fetched in a special
train.

"We ought to have done it days ago," Hewet repeated angrily.

When he went back into the drawing-room he found that Mrs. Flushing was there, standing very
erect in the middle of the room, having arrived, as people did in these days, by the kitchen
or through the garden unannounced.

"She's better?" Mrs. Flushing enquired abruptly; they did not attempt to shake hands.

"No," said Terence. "If anything, they think she's worse."

Mrs. Flushing seemed to consider for a moment or two, looking straight at Terence all the time.

"Let me tell you," she said, speaking in nervous jerks, "it's always about the seventh day
one begins to get anxious. I daresay you've been sittin' here worryin' by yourself. You think
she's bad, but any one comin' with a fresh eye would see she was better. Mr. Elliot's had fever;
he's all right now," she threw out. "It wasn't anythin' she caught on the expedition. What's
it matter--a few days' fever? My brother had fever for twenty-six days once. And in a week
or two he was up and about. We gave him nothin' but milk and arrowroot--"

Here Mrs. Chailey came in with a message.

"I'm wanted upstairs," said Terence.

"You see--she'll be better," Mrs. Flushing jerked out as he left the room. Her anxiety to persuade
Terence was very great, and when he left her without saying anything she felt dissatisfied
and restless; she did not like to stay, but she could not bear to go. She wandered from room
to room looking for some one to talk to, but all the rooms were empty.

Terence went upstairs, stood inside the door to take Helen's directions, looked over at Rachel,
but did not attempt to speak to her. She appeared vaguely conscious of his presence, but it
seemed to disturb her, and she turned, so that she lay with her back to him.

For six days indeed she had been oblivious of the world outside, because it needed all her
attention to follow the hot, red, quick sights which passed incessantly before her eyes. She
knew that it was of enormous importance that she should attend to these sights and grasp their
meaning, but she was always being just too late to hear or see something which would explain
it all. For this reason, the faces,--Helen's face, the nurse's, Terence's, the doctor's,--which
occasionally forced themselves very close to her, were worrying because they distracted her
attention and she might miss the clue. However, on the fourth afternoon she was suddenly unable
to keep Helen's face distinct from the sights themselves; her lips widened as she bent down
over the bed, and she began to gabble unintelligibly like the rest. The sights were all concerned
in some plot, some adventure, some escape. The nature of what they were doing changed incessantly,
although there was always a reason behind it, which she must endeavour to grasp. Now they were
among trees and savages, now they were on the sea, now they were on the tops of high towers;
now they jumped; now they flew. But just as the crisis was about to happen, something invariably
slipped in her brain, so that the whole effort had to begin over again. The heat was suffocating.
At last the faces went further away; she fell into a deep pool of sticky water, which eventually
closed over her head. She saw nothing and heard nothing but a faint booming sound, which was
the sound of the sea rolling over her head. While all her tormentors thought that she was dead,
she was not dead, but curled up at the bottom of the sea. There she lay, sometimes seeing darkness,
sometimes light, while every now and then some one turned her over at the bottom of the sea.

After St. John had spent some hours in the heat of the sun wrangling with evasive and very
garrulous natives, he extracted the information that there was a doctor, a French doctor, who
was at present away on a holiday in the hills. It was quite impossible, so they said, to find
him. With his experience of the country, St. John thought it unlikely that a telegram would
either be sent or received; but having reduced the distance of the hill town, in which he was
staying, from a hundred miles to thirty miles, and having hired a carriage and horses, he started
at once to fetch the doctor himself. He succeeded in finding him, and eventually forced the
unwilling man to leave his young wife and return forthwith. They reached the villa at midday
on Tuesday.

Terence came out to receive them, and St. John was struck by the fact that he had grown perceptibly
thinner in the interval; he was white too; his eyes looked strange. But the curt speech and
the sulky masterful manner of Dr. Lesage impressed them both favourably, although at the same
time it was obvious that he was very much annoyed at the whole affair. Coming downstairs he
gave his directions emphatically, but it never occurred to him to give an opinion either because
of the presence of Rodriguez who was now obsequious as well as malicious, or because he took
it for granted that they knew already what was to be known.

"Of course," he said with a shrug of his shoulders, when Terence asked him, "Is she very ill?"

They were both conscious of a certain sense of relief when Dr. Lesage was gone, leaving explicit
directions, and promising another visit in a few hours' time; but, unfortunately, the rise
of their spirits led them to talk more than usual, and in talking they quarrelled. They quarrelled
about a road, the Portsmouth Road. St. John said that it is macadamised where it passes Hindhead,
and Terence knew as well as he knew his own name that it is not macadamised at that point.
In the course of the argument they said some very sharp things to each other, and the rest
of the dinner was eaten in silence, save for an occasional half-stifled reflection from Ridley.

When it grew dark and the lamps were brought in, Terence felt unable to control his irritation
any longer. St. John went to bed in a state of complete exhaustion, bidding Terence good-night
with rather more affection than usual because of their quarrel, and Ridley retired to his books.
Left alone, Terence walked up and down the room; he stood at the open window.

The lights were coming out one after another in the town beneath, and it was very peaceful
and cool in the garden, so that he stepped out on to the terrace. As he stood there in the
darkness, able only to see the shapes of trees through the fine grey light, he was overcome
by a desire to escape, to have done with this suffering, to forget that Rachel was ill. He
allowed himself to lapse into forgetfulness of everything. As if a wind that had been raging
incessantly suddenly fell asleep, the fret and strain and anxiety which had been pressing on
him passed away. He seemed to stand in an unvexed space of air, on a little island by himself;
he was free and immune from pain. It did not matter whether Rachel was well or ill; it did
not matter whether they were apart or together; nothing mattered--nothing mattered. The waves
beat on the shore far away, and the soft wind passed through the branches of the trees, seeming
to encircle him with peace and security, with dark and nothingness. Surely the world of strife
and fret and anxiety was not the real world, but this was the real world, the world that lay
beneath the superficial world, so that, whatever happened, one was secure. The quiet and peace
seemed to lap his body in a fine cool sheet, soothing every nerve; his mind seemed once more
to expand, and become natural.

But when he had stood thus for a time a noise in the house roused him; he turned instinctively
and went into the drawing-room. The sight of the lamp-lit room brought back so abruptly all
that he had forgotten that he stood for a moment unable to move. He remembered everything,
the hour, the minute even, what point they had reached, and what was to come. He cursed himself
for making believe for a minute that things were different from what they are. The night was
now harder to face than ever.

Unable to stay in the empty drawing-room, he wandered out and sat on the stairs half-way up
to Rachel's room. He longed for some one to talk to, but Hirst was asleep, and Ridley was asleep;
there was no sound in Rachel's room. The only sound in the house was the sound of Chailey moving
in the kitchen. At last there was a rustling on the stairs overhead, and Nurse McInnis came
down fastening the links in her cuffs, in preparation for the night's watch. Terence rose and
stopped her. He had scarcely spoken to her, but it was possible that she might confirm him
in the belief which still persisted in his own mind that Rachel was not seriously ill. He told
her in a whisper that Dr. Lesage had been and what he had said.

"Now, Nurse," he whispered, "please tell me your opinion. Do you consider that she is very
seriously ill? Is she in any danger?"

"The doctor has said--" she began.

"Yes, but I want your opinion. You have had experience of many cases like this?"

"I could not tell you more than Dr. Lesage, Mr. Hewet," she replied cautiously, as though her
words might be used against her. "The case is serious, but you may feel quite certain that
we are doing all we can for Miss Vinrace." She spoke with some professional self-approbation.
But she realised perhaps that she did not satisfy the young man, who still blocked her way,
for she shifted her feet slightly upon the stair and looked out of the window where they could
see the moon over the sea.

"If you ask me," she began in a curiously stealthy tone, "I never like May for my patients."

"May?" Terence repeated.

"It may be a fancy, but I don't like to see anybody fall ill in May," she continued. "Things
seem to go wrong in May. Perhaps it's the moon. They say the moon affects the brain, don't
they, Sir?"

He looked at her but he could not answer her; like all the others, when one looked at her she
seemed to shrivel beneath one's eyes and become worthless, malicious, and untrustworthy.

She slipped past him and disappeared.

Though he went to his room he was unable even to take his clothes off. For a long time he paced
up and down, and then leaning out of the window gazed at the earth which lay so dark against
the paler blue of the sky. With a mixture of fear and loathing he looked at the slim black
cypress trees which were still visible in the garden, and heard the unfamiliar creaking and
grating sounds which show that the earth is still hot. All these sights and sounds appeared
sinister and full of hostility and foreboding; together with the natives and the nurse and
the doctor and the terrible force of the illness itself they seemed to be in conspiracy against
him. They seemed to join together in their effort to extract the greatest possible amount of
suffering from him. He could not get used to his pain, it was a revelation to him. He had never
realised before that underneath every action, underneath the life of every day, pain lies,
quiescent, but ready to devour; he seemed to be able to see suffering, as if it were a fire,
curling up over the edges of all action, eating away the lives of men and women. He thought
for the first time with understanding of words which had before seemed to him empty: the struggle
of life; the hardness of life. Now he knew for himself that life is hard and full of suffering.
He looked at the scattered lights in the town beneath, and thought of Arthur and Susan, or
Evelyn and Perrott venturing out unwittingly, and by their happiness laying themselves open
to suffering such as this. How did they dare to love each other, he wondered; how had he himself
dared to live as he had lived, rapidly and carelessly, passing from one thing to another, loving
Rachel as he had loved her? Never again would he feel secure; he would never believe in the
stability of life, or forget what depths of pain lie beneath small happiness and feelings of
content and safety. It seemed to him as he looked back that their happiness had never been
so great as his pain was now. There had always been something imperfect in their happiness,
something they had wanted and had not been able to get. It had been fragmentary and incomplete,
because they were so young and had not known what they were doing.

The light of his candle flickered over the boughs of a tree outside the window, and as the
branch swayed in the darkness there came before his mind a picture of all the world that lay
outside his window; he thought of the immense river and the immense forest, the vast stretches
of dry earth and the plains of the sea that encircled the earth; from the sea the sky rose
steep and enormous, and the air washed profoundly between the sky and the sea. How vast and
dark it must be tonight, lying exposed to the wind; and in all this great space it was curious
to think how few the towns were, and how small little rings of light, or single glow-worms
he figured them, scattered here and there, among the swelling uncultivated folds of the world.
And in those towns were little men and women, tiny men and women. Oh, it was absurd, when one
thought of it, to sit here in a little room suffering and caring. What did anything matter?
Rachel, a tiny creature, lay ill beneath him, and here in his little room he suffered on her
account. The nearness of their bodies in this vast universe, and the minuteness of their bodies,
seemed to him absurd and laughable. Nothing mattered, he repeated; they had no power, no hope.
He leant on the window-sill, thinking, until he almost forgot the time and the place. Nevertheless,
although he was convinced that it was absurd and laughable, and that they were small and hopeless,
he never lost the sense that these thoughts somehow formed part of a life which he and Rachel
would live together.

Owing perhaps to the change of doctor, Rachel appeared to be rather better next day. Terribly
pale and worn though Helen looked, there was a slight lifting of the cloud which had hung all
these days in her eyes.

"She talked to me," she said voluntarily. "She asked me what day of the week it was, like herself."

Then suddenly, without any warning or any apparent reason, the tears formed in her eyes and
rolled steadily down her cheeks. She cried with scarcely any attempt at movement of her features,
and without any attempt to stop herself, as if she did not know that she was crying. In spite
of the relief which her words gave him, Terence was dismayed by the sight; had everything given
way? Were there no limits to the power of this illness? Would everything go down before it?
Helen had always seemed to him strong and determined, and now she was like a child. He took
her in his arms, and she clung to him like a child, crying softly and quietly upon his shoulder.
Then she roused herself and wiped her tears away; it was silly to behave like that, she said;
very silly, she repeated, when there could be no doubt that Rachel was better. She asked Terence
to forgive her for her folly. She stopped at the door and came back and kissed him without
saying anything.

On this day indeed Rachel was conscious of what went on round her. She had come to the surface
of the dark, sticky pool, and a wave seemed to bear her up and down with it; she had ceased
to have any will of her own; she lay on the top of the wave conscious of some pain, but chiefly
of weakness. The wave was replaced by the side of a mountain. Her body became a drift of melting
snow, above which her knees rose in huge peaked mountains of bare bone. It was true that she
saw Helen and saw her room, but everything had become very pale and semi-transparent. Sometimes
she could see through the wall in front of her. Sometimes when Helen went away she seemed to
go so far that Rachel's eyes could hardly follow her. The room also had an odd power of expanding,
and though she pushed her voice out as far as possible until sometimes it became a bird and
flew away, she thought it doubtful whether it ever reached the person she was talking to. There
were immense intervals or chasms, for things still had the power to appear visibly before her,
between one moment and the next; it sometimes took an hour for Helen to raise her arm, pausing
long between each jerky movement, and pour out medicine. Helen's form stooping to raise her
in bed appeared of gigantic size, and came down upon her like the ceiling falling. But for
long spaces of time she would merely lie conscious of her body floating on the top of the bed
and her mind driven to some remote corner of her body, or escaped and gone flitting round the
room. All sights were something of an effort, but the sight of Terence was the greatest effort,
because he forced her to join mind to body in the desire to remember something. She did not
wish to remember; it troubled her when people tried to disturb her loneliness; she wished to
be alone. She wished for nothing else in the world.

Although she had cried, Terence observed Helen's greater hopefulness with something like triumph;
in the argument between them she had made the first sign of admitting herself in the wrong.
He waited for Dr. Lesage to come down that afternoon with considerable anxiety, but with the
same certainty at the back of his mind that he would in time force them all to admit that they
were in the wrong.

