Boys and Girls from Thackeray

By Kate Dickinson Sweetser

Pictures by GEORGE ALFRED WILLIAMS

1907

PREFACE

William Makepeace Thackeray--the name is dear to all lovers of classic fiction, who have wandered
in enchanted lands, following the fortunes of Colonel Newcome, Becky Sharp, Henry Esmond, and
a host of other familiar characters created by the great novelist.

To an unusual degree, Thackeray dwells on the childhood and youth of the characters he depicts,
lingering fondly and in details over the pranks and pastimes, the school and college days of
his heroes and heroines, as though he wished to call especial attention to the interest of
that portion of their career.

That Thackeray has so emphasised his sketches of juvenile life, warrants the presentation of
those sketches in this volume and as complete stories, without the adult intrigue and plot
with which they are surrounded in the novels from which they are taken. The object in so presenting
them is twofold: namely, to create an interest in Thackeray's work among young readers to whom
he has heretofore been unknown, and to form a companion volume to those already given such
a hearty welcome--Boys and Girls from Dickens and George Eliot.

K.D.S.

NEW YORK, 1907.

CONTENTS

HENRY ESMOND

THE VIRGINIANS

BECKY SHARP AT SCHOOL

CUFF'S FIGHT WITH "FIGS" With this old man lived a little lad, who went by the name of Henry
Thomas, but who was no other than Henry Esmond.

He remembered to his life's end the delights of those days. They were closeted with the Father
constantly, and often came and rode away without paying their respects to my lord and lady.

Great public events were happening at this time, of which the simple young page took little
count. "Down with the Pope!" The party from Castlewood were on their way to Hexton, where there
was a great meeting of the gentry. It might have been four o'clock when he heard the door of
Father Holt's chamber open.

"Silentium!" whispered the other; "'tis I, my boy!" holding his hand out, and Harry recognised
Father Holt. It was quite in the grey of the morning when the porter's bell rang, and old Lockwood
let him in. Here is a pillow stuffed with paper.

A soldier, with a good-humoured face, came in at the summons, saluting his officer.

"Tell us what is this, Dick Steele," says the lawyer.

"What does he say?" says the lawyer. He brought, too, his lady and little daughter, Beatrix,
the latter a child of great beauty and many winning ways, to whom the old viscountess took
not a little liking, and who was permitted after that to go often and visit the prisoner.

And now there befell an event by which Lady Isabella recovered her liberty, and the house of
Castlewood got a new owner, Colonel Francis Esmond, and fatherless little Harry Esmond, the
new and most kind protector and friend, whom we met at the opening of this story. My Lord of
Castlewood was wounded at the battle of the Boyne, flying from which field he lay for a while
concealed in a marsh, and more from cold and fever caught in the bogs than from the steel of
the enemy in the battle, died.

In those days letters were slow of travelling, and that of a priest announcing my lord's death
took two months or more on its journey from Ireland to England. When it did arrive, Lady Isabella
was still confined in Hexton Castle, but the letter was opened at Castlewood by Captain Westbury.

"Something has happened to Lord Castlewood," Captain Westbury said, in a very grave tone. "He
is dead of a wound received at the Boyne, fighting for King James. I hope he has provided for
thee somehow. Thou hast only him to depend on now."

Harry did not know, he said. He was in the hands of Heaven, as he had been all the rest of
his life. Lady Isabella was in prison, his patron was dead, Father Holt was gone,--he knew
not where,--Tom Tusher was far away. To whom could he turn now for comradeship?

He remembered to his dying day the thoughts and tears of that long night--was there any child
in the whole world so unprotected as he?

The next day the gentlemen of the guard, who had heard what had befallen him, were more than
usually kind to the child, and upon talking the matter over with Dick they decided that Harry
should stay where he was, and abide his fortune; so he stayed on at Castlewood after the garrison
had been ordered away. He was sorry when the kind soldiers vacated Castlewood, and looked forward
with no small anxiety to his fate when the new lord and lady of the house,--Colonel Francis
Esmond and his wife,--should come to live there. He was now past twelve years old and had an
affectionate heart, tender to weakness, that would gladly attach itself to somebody, and would
not feel at rest until it had found a friend who would take charge of it.

Then came my lord and lady into their new domain, and my lady's introduction to the little
lad, whom she found in the book-room, as we have seen. He was fond of the parade of dress,
and also fond of having his lady well dressed; who spared no pains in that matter to please
him. Indeed, she would dress her head or cut it off if he had bidden her.

My Lord Viscount took young Esmond into his special favour, luckily for the lad. As my lord
was sleeping heavily, it certainly was providential that a resolute person should have come
in at that instant, or the child would have been burned to death.

Ever after this, the father was loud in his expressions of remorse, and of admiration for Harry
Esmond, and had the tenderest regard for his son's preserver.

My lady had three idols: her lord, the good Viscount of Castlewood,--her little son, who had
his father's looks and curly, brown hair,--and her daughter Beatrix, who had his eyes--were
there ever such beautiful eyes in the world?

But as Esmond grew, and observed for himself, he found much to read and think of outside that
fond circle of kinsfolk.

Meanwhile evil fortune came upon the inmates of Castlewood Hall; brought thither by no other
than Harry himself. In those early days, before Lady Mary Wortley Montague brought home the
custom of inoculation from Turkey, smallpox was considered, as indeed it was, the most dreadful
scourge of the world. The pestilence would enter a village and destroy half its inhabitants.
At its approach not only the beautiful, but the strongest were alarmed, and those fled who could.

Now there was a pretty girl at this Inn, Nancy Sievewright, the blacksmith's daughter, a bouncing,
fresh-looking lass, with whom Harry Esmond in his walks and rambles often happened to fall
in; or, failing to meet her, he would discover some errand to be done at the blacksmith's,
or would go to the Inn to find her.

When, then, Dr. Tusher brought the news that the little boy at the Inn was ill with the smallpox,
poor Harry Esmond felt a shock of alarm, not so much for himself as for little Frank, whom
he might have brought into peril. "I thank you, sir, for giving him such company.

Here my lady burst into a flood of tears, and quitted the room, as my lord raised up Harry
Esmond from his kneeling posture, put his broad hand on the lad's shoulder, and spoke kindly
to him. Then, suddenly remembering that Harry might have brought the infection with him, he
stepped back suddenly, saying, "Keep off, Harry, my boy; there is no good in running into the
wolf's jaws, you know!"

"Not with me!" cried my lord. "I've been smoking, and it keeps off infection, and as the disease
is in the village, plague take it, I would have you leave it. We'll go to-morrow to Wolcott."

"I have no fear, my lord," said my lady; "it broke out in our house when I was an infant, and
when four of my sisters had it at home, two years before our marriage, I escaped it."

