Intellectual culture has no necessary relation to purity or excellence of character. In the
New Testament, appeals are constantly made to the heart of man and to "the spirit we are of,"
whilst allusions to the intellect are of very rare occurrence. Not that learning is to be despised,
but that it must be allied to goodness. Intellectual capacity is sometimes found associated
with the meanest moral character with abject servility to those in high places, and arrogance
to those of low estate. A man may be accomplished in art, literature, and science, and yet,
in honesty, virtue, truthfulness, and the spirit of duty, be entitled to take rank after many
a poor and illiterate peasant. We shall never learn to feel and respect our real calling and
destiny, unless we have taught ourselves to consider everything as moonshine, compared with
the education of the heart." [103]

Still less has wealth any necessary connection with elevation of character. On the contrary,
it is much more frequently the cause of its corruption and degradation. Wealth and corruption,
luxury and vice, have very close affinities to each other. Wealth, in the hands of men of weak
purpose, of deficient self-control, or of ill-regulated passions, is only a temptation and
a snare--the source, it may be, of infinite mischief to themselves, and often to others. The
advice which Burns's father gave him was the best:

   "He bade me act a manly part, though I had ne'er a farthing,
   For without an honest manly heart no man was worth regarding."

One of the purest and noblest characters the writer ever knew was a labouring man in a northern
county, who brought up his family respectably on an income never amounting to more than ten
shillings a week. Though possessed of only the rudiments of common education, obtained at an
ordinary parish school, he was a man full of wisdom and thoughtfulness. His library consisted
of the Bible, 'Flavel,' and 'Boston'--books which, excepting the first, probably few readers
have ever heard of. This good man might have sat for the portrait of Wordsworth's well-known
'Wanderer.' When he had lived his modest life of work and worship, and finally went to his
rest, he left behind him a reputation for practical wisdom, for genuine goodness, and for helpfulness
in every good work, which greater and richer men might have envied.

When Luther died, he left behind him, as set forth in his will, "no ready money, no treasure
of coin of any description." He was so poor at one part of his life, that he was under the
necessity of earning his bread by turning, gardening, and clockmaking. Yet, at the very time
when he was thus working with his hands, he was moulding the character of his country; and
he was morally stronger, and vastly more honoured and followed, than all the princes of Germany.

Character is property. It is the noblest of possessions. And it is right that in life good
qualities should tell--that industry, virtue, and goodness should rank the highest--and that
the really best men should be foremost.

Simple honesty of purpose in a man goes a long way in life, if founded on a just estimate of
himself and a steady obedience to the rule he knows and feels to be right. It holds a man straight,
gives him strength and sustenance, and forms a mainspring of vigorous action. "No man," once
said Sir Benjamin Rudyard, "is bound to be rich or great,--no, nor to be wise; but every man
is bound to be honest." [104]

But the purpose, besides being honest, must be inspired by sound principles, and pursued with
undeviating adherence to truth, integrity, and uprightness. He is as one without law, or rule,
or order, or government. "Moral principles," says Hume, "are social and universal. They form,
in a manner, the PARTY of humankind against vice and disorder, its common enemy."

Epictetus once received a visit from a certain magnificent orator going to Rome on a lawsuit,
who wished to learn from the stoic something of his philosophy. Epictetus received his visitor
coolly, not believing in his sincerity. "You will only criticise my style," said he; "not really
wishing to learn principles."--"Well, but," said the orator, "if I attend to that sort of thing;
I shall be a mere pauper, like you, with no plate, nor equipage, nor land."--"I don't WANT
such things," replied Epictetus; "and besides, you are poorer than I am, after all. Patron
or no patron, what care I? You DO care. I am richer than you. I don't care what Caesar thinks
of me. I flatter no one. This is what I have, instead of your gold and silver plate. [105]

Talent is by no means rare in the world; nor is even genius. But can the talent be trusted?--can
the genius? Not unless based on truthfulness--on veracity. It is this quality more than any
other that commands the esteem and respect, and secures the confidence of others. Truthfulness
is at the foundation of all personal excellence. It exhibits itself in conduct. It is rectitude--truth
in action, and shines through every word and deed. It means reliableness, and convinces other
men that it can be trusted. And a man is already of consequence in the world when it is known
that he can be relied on,--that when he says he knows a thing, he does know it,--that when
he says he will do a thing, he can do, and does it. Thus reliableness becomes a passport to
the general esteem and confidence of mankind. [106]

It is because of this controlling power of character in life that we often see men exercise
an amount of influence apparently out of all proportion to their intellectual endowments. They
appear to act by means of some latent power, some reserved force, which acts secretly, by mere
presence. As Burke said of a powerful nobleman of the last century, "his virtues were his means."
The secret is, that the aims of such men are felt to be pure and noble, and they act upon others
with a constraining power.

Though the reputation of men of genuine character may be of slow growth, their true qualities
cannot be wholly concealed. They may be misrepresented by some, and misunderstood by others;
misfortune and adversity may, for a time, overtake them but, with patience and endurance, they
will eventually inspire the respect and command the confidence which they really deserve.

It has been said of Sheridan that, had he possessed reliableness of character, he might have
ruled the world; whereas, for want of it, his splendid gifts were comparatively useless. He
dazzled and amused, but was without weight or influence in life or politics. Even the poor
pantomimist of Drury Lane felt himself his superior. Thus, when Delpini one day pressed the
manager for arrears of salary, Sheridan sharply reproved him, telling him he had forgotten
his station. "No, indeed, Monsieur Sheridan, I have not," retorted Delpini; "I know the difference
between us perfectly well. In birth, parentage, and education, you are superior to me; but
in life, character, and behaviour, I am superior to you."

Unlike Sheridan, Burke, his countryman, was a great man of character. He was thirty-five before
he gained a seat in Parliament, yet he found time to carve his name deep in the political history
of England. He was a man of great gifts, and of transcendent force of character. Yet he had
a weakness, which proved a serious defect--it was his want of temper; his genius was sacrificed
to his irritability. And without this apparently minor gift of temper, the most splendid endowments
may be comparatively valueless to their possessor.

Character is formed by a variety of minute circumstances, more or less under the regulation
and control of the individual. Not a day passes without its discipline, whether for good or
for evil. There is no act, however trivial, but has its train of consequences, as there is
no hair so small but casts its shadow. It was a wise saying of Mrs. Schimmelpenninck's mother,
never to give way to what is little; or by that little, however you may despise it, you will
be practically governed.

Every action, every thought, every feeling, contributes to the education of the temper, the
habits, and understanding; and exercises an inevitable influence upon all the acts of our future
life. Thus character is undergoing constant change, for better or for worse--either being elevated
on the one hand, or degraded on the other. [107]

The mechanical law, that action and reaction are equal, holds true also in morals. Good deeds
act and react on the doers of them; and so do evil. Not only so: they produce like effects,
by the influence of example, on those who are the subjects of them. But man is not the creature,
so much as he is the creator, of circumstances: [108] and, by the exercise of his freewill,
he can direct his actions so that they shall be productive of good rather than evil. "Nothing
can work me damage but myself," said St. Bernard; "the harm that I sustain I carry about with
me; and I am never a real sufferer but by my own fault."

And with the light of great examples to guide us--representatives of humanity in its best forms--every
one is not only justified, but bound in duty, to aim at reaching the highest standard of character:
not to become the richest in means, but in spirit; not the greatest in worldly position, but
in true honour; not the most intellectual, but the most virtuous; not the most powerful and
influential, but the most truthful, upright, and honest.

It was very characteristic of the late Prince Consort--a man himself of the purest mind, who
powerfully impressed and influenced others by the sheer force of his own benevolent nature--when
drawing up the conditions of the annual prize to be given by Her Majesty at Wellington College,
to determine that it should be awarded, not to the cleverest boy, nor to the most bookish boy,
nor to the most precise, diligent, and prudent boy,--but to the noblest boy, to the boy who
should show the most promise of becoming a large-hearted, high-motived man. [109]

Character exhibits itself in conduct, guided and inspired by principle, integrity, and practical
wisdom. In its highest form, it is the individual will acting energetically under the influence
of religion, morality, and reason. It chooses its way considerately, and pursues it steadfastly;
esteeming duty above reputation, and the approval of conscience more than the world's praise.
While respecting the personality of others, it preserves its own individuality and independence;
and has the courage to be morally honest, though it may be unpopular, trusting tranquilly to
time and experience for recognition.

Although the force of example will always exercise great influence upon the formation of character,
the self-originating and sustaining force of one's own spirit must be the mainstay. This alone
can hold up the life, and give individual independence and energy. "Unless man can erect himself
above himself," said Daniel, a poet of the Elizabethan era, "how poor a thing is man!" Without
a certain degree of practical efficient force--compounded of will, which is the root, and wisdom,
which is the stem of character--life will be indefinite and purposeless--like a body of stagnant
water, instead of a running stream doing useful work and keeping the machinery of a district
in motion.

On the other hand, energy, without integrity and a soul of goodness, may only represent the
embodied principle of evil. It is observed by Novalis, in his 'Thoughts on Morals,' that the
ideal of moral perfection has no more dangerous rival to contend with than the ideal of the
highest strength and the most energetic life, the maximum of the barbarian--which needs only
a due admixture of pride, ambition, and selfishness, to be a perfect ideal of the devil. Amongst
men of such stamp are found the greatest scourges and devastators of the world--those elect
scoundrels whom Providence, in its inscrutable designs, permits to fulfil their mission of
destruction upon earth. [1010]

Very different is the man of energetic character inspired by a noble spirit, whose actions
are governed by rectitude, and the law of whose life is duty. He is just and upright,--in his
business dealings, in his public action, and in his family life--justice being as essential
in the government of a home as of a nation. He will be honest in all things--in his words and
in his work. He will be generous and merciful to his opponents, as well as to those who are
weaker than himself. It was truly said of Sheridan--who, with all his improvidence, was generous,
and never gave pain--that,

     "His wit in the combat, as gentle as bright,
     Never carried a heart-stain away on its blade."

Such also was the character of Fox, who commanded the affection and service of others by his
uniform heartiness and sympathy. He was a man who could always be most easily touched on the
side of his honour. Thus, the story is told of a tradesman calling upon him one day for the
payment of a promissory note which he presented. Fox was engaged at the time in counting out
gold. The tradesman asked to be paid from the money before him. "No," said Fox, "I owe this
money to Sheridan; it is a debt of honour; if any accident happened to me, he would have nothing
to show." "Then," said the tradesman, "I change MY debt into one of honour;" and he tore up
the note. Fox was conquered by the act: he thanked the man for his confidence, and paid him,
saying, "Then Sheridan must wait; yours is the debt of older standing."

The man of character is conscientious. He puts his conscience into his work, into his words,
into his every action. When Cromwell asked the Parliament for soldiers in lieu of the decayed
serving-men and tapsters who filled the Commonwealth's army, he required that they should be
men "who made some conscience of what they did;" and such were the men of which his celebrated
regiment of "Ironsides" was composed.

The man of character is also reverential. The possession of this quality marks the noblest,
and highest type of manhood and womanhood: reverence for things consecrated by the homage of
generations--for high objects, pure thoughts, and noble aims--for the great men of former times,
and the highminded workers amongst our contemporaries. Reverence is alike indispensable to
the happiness of individuals, of families, and of nations. Without it there can be no trust,
no faith, no confidence, either in man or God--neither social peace nor social progress. For
reverence is but another word for religion, which binds men to each other, and all to God.

"The man of noble spirit," says Sir Thomas Overbury, "converts all occurrences into experience,
between which experience and his reason there is marriage, and the issue are his actions. He
moves by affection, not for affection; he loves glory, scorns shame, and governeth and obeyeth
with one countenance, for it comes from one consideration. Knowing reason to be no idle gift
of nature, he is the steersman of his own destiny. Truth is his goddess, and he takes pains
to get her, not to look like her. Unto the society of men he is a sun, whose clearness directs
their steps in a regular motion. He is the wise man's friend, the example of the indifferent,
the medicine of the vicious. Thus time goeth not from him, but with him, and he feels age more
by the strength of his soul than by the weakness of his body. Thus feels he no pain, but esteems
all such things as friends, that desire to file off his fetters, and help him out of prison."
[1011]

Energy of will--self-originating force--is the soul of every great character. Where it is,
there is life; where it is not, there is faintness, helplessness, and despondency. "The strong
man and the waterfall," says the proverb, "channel their own path." The energetic leader of
noble spirit not only wins a way for himself, but carries others with him. His every act has
a personal significance, indicating vigour, independence, and self-reliance, and unconsciously
commands respect, admiration, and homage. Such intrepidity of character characterised Luther,
Cromwell, Washington, Pitt, Wellington, and all great leaders of men.

"I am convinced," said Mr. Gladstone, in describing the qualities of the late Lord Palmerston
in the House of Commons, shortly after his death--"I am convinced that it was the force of
will, a sense of duty, and a determination not to give in, that enabled him to make himself
a model for all of us who yet remain and follow him, with feeble and unequal steps, in the
discharge of our duties; it was that force of will that in point of fact did not so much struggle
against the infirmities of old age, but actually repelled them and kept them at a distance.
And one other quality there is, at least, that may be noticed without the smallest risk of
stirring in any breast a painful emotion. It is this, that Lord Palmerston had a nature incapable
of enduring anger or any sentiment of wrath. This freedom from wrathful sentiment was not the
result of painful effort, but the spontaneous fruit of the mind. It was a noble gift of his
original nature--a gift which beyond all others it was delightful to observe, delightful also
to remember in connection with him who has left us, and with whom we have no longer to do,
except in endeavouring to profit by his example wherever it can lead us in the path of duty
and of right, and of bestowing on him those tributes of admiration and affection which he deserves
at our hands."

The great leader attracts to himself men of kindred character, drawing them towards him as
the loadstone draws iron. Thus, Sir John Moore early distinguished the three brothers Napier
from the crowd of officers by whom he was surrounded, and they, on their part, repaid him by
their passionate admiration. They were captivated by his courtesy, his bravery, and his lofty
disinterestedness; and he became the model whom they resolved to imitate, and, if possible,
to emulate. "Moore's influence," says the biographer of Sir William Napier, "had a signal effect
in forming and maturing their characters; and it is no small glory to have been the hero of
those three men, while his early discovery of their mental and moral qualities is a proof of
Moore's own penetration and judgment of character."

There is a contagiousness in every example of energetic conduct. The brave man is an inspiration
to the weak, and compels them, as it were, to follow him. Thus Napier relates that at the combat
of Vera, when the Spanish centre was broken and in flight, a young officer, named Havelock,
sprang forward, and, waving his hat, called upon the Spaniards within sight to follow him.
Putting spurs to his horse, he leapt the abbatis which protected the French front, and went
headlong against them. The Spaniards were electrified; in a moment they dashed after him, cheering
for "EL CHICO BLANCO!" [10the fair boy], and with one shock they broke through the French and
sent them flying downhill. [1012]

And so it is in ordinary life. The good and the great draw others after them; they lighten
and lift up all who are within reach of their influence. They are as so many living centres
of beneficent activity. Let a man of energetic and upright character be appointed to a position
of trust and authority, and all who serve under him become, as it were, conscious of an increase
of power. When Chatham was appointed minister, his personal influence was at once felt through
all the ramifications of office. Every sailor who served under Nelson, and knew he was in command,
shared the inspiration of the hero.

When Washington consented to act as commander-in-chief, it was felt as if the strength of the
American forces had been more than doubled. Many years late; in 1798, when Washington, grown
old, had withdrawn from public life and was living in retirement at Mount Vernon, and when
it seemed probable that France would declare war against the United States, President Adams
wrote to him, saying, "We must have your name, if you will permit us to use it; there will
be more efficacy in it than in many an army." Such was the esteem in which the great President's
noble character and eminent abilities were held by his countrymen! [1013]

An incident is related by the historian of the Peninsular War, illustrative of the personal
influence exercised by a great commander over his followers. The British army lay at Sauroren,
before which Soult was advancing, prepared to attack, in force. Wellington was absent, and
his arrival was anxiously looked for. Suddenly a single horseman was seen riding up the mountain
alone. It was the Duke, about to join his troops. One of Campbell's Portuguese battalions first
descried him, and raised a joyful cry; then the shrill clamour, caught up by the next regiment,
soon swelled as it ran along the line into that appalling shout which the British soldier is
wont to give upon the edge of battle, and which no enemy ever heard unmoved. Suddenly he stopped
at a conspicuous point, for he desired both armies should know he was there, and a double spy
who was present pointed out Soult, who was so near that his features could be distinguished.
Attentively Wellington fixed his eyes on that formidable man, and, as if speaking to himself,
he said: "Yonder is a great commander; but he is cautious, and will delay his attack to ascertain
the cause of those cheers; that will give time for the Sixth Division to arrive, and I shall
beat him"--which he did. [1014]

In some cases, personal character acts by a kind of talismanic influence, as if certain men
were the organs of a sort of supernatural force. "If I but stamp on the ground in Italy," said
Pompey, "an army will appear." At the voice of Peter the Hermit, as described by the historian,
"Europe arose, and precipitated itself upon Asia." The very names of some men are like the
sound of a trumpet. When the Douglas lay mortally wounded on the field of Otterburn, he ordered
his name to be shouted still louder than before, saying there was a tradition in his family
that a dead Douglas should win a battle. His followers, inspired by the sound, gathered fresh
courage, rallied, and conquered; and thus, in the words of the Scottish poet:--

"The Douglas dead, his name hath won the field." [1015]

There have been some men whose greatest conquests have been achieved after they themselves
were dead. "Never," says Michelet, "was Caesar more alive, more powerful, more terrible, than
when his old and worn-out body, his withered corpse, lay pierced with blows; he appeared then
purified, redeemed,--that which he had been, despite his many stains--the man of humanity."
[1016] Never did the great character of William of Orange, surnamed the Silent, exercise greater
power over his countrymen than after his assassination at Delft by the emissary of the Jesuits.
On the very day of his murder the Estates of Holland resolved "to maintain the good cause,
with God's help, to the uttermost, without sparing gold or blood;" and they kept their word.

The same illustration applies to all history and morals. The career of a great man remains
an enduring monument of human energy. The man dies and disappears; but his thoughts and acts
survive, and leave an indelible stamp upon his race. And thus the spirit of his life is prolonged
and perpetuated, moulding the thought and will, and thereby contributing to form the character
of the future. It is the men that advance in the highest and best directions, who are the true
beacons of human progress. They are as lights set upon a hill, illumining the moral atmosphere
around them; and the light of their spirit continues to shine upon all succeeding generations.

It is natural to admire and revere really great men. They hallow the nation to which they belong,
and lift up not only all who live in their time, but those who live after them. Their great
example becomes the common heritage of their race; and their great deeds and great thoughts
are the most glorious of legacies to mankind. They connect the present with the past, and help
on the increasing purpose of the future; holding aloft the standard of principle, maintaining
the dignity of human character, and filling the mind with traditions and instincts of all that
is most worthy and noble in life.

Character, embodied in thought and deed, is of the nature of immortality. The solitary thought
of a great thinker will dwell in the minds of men for centuries until at length it works itself
into their daily life and practice. It lives on through the ages, speaking as a voice from
the dead, and influencing minds living thousands of years apart. Thus, Moses and David and
Solomon, Plato and Socrates and Xenophon, Seneca and Cicero and Epictetus, still speak to us
as from their tombs. They still arrest the attention, and exercise an influence upon character,
though their thoughts be conveyed in languages unspoken by them and in their time unknown.
Theodore Parker has said that a single man like Socrates was worth more to a country than many
such states as South Carolina; that if that state went out of the world to-day, she would not
have done so much for the world as Socrates. [1017]

Great workers and great thinkers are the true makers of history, which is but continuous humanity
influenced by men of character--by great leaders, kings, priests, philosophers, statesmen,
and patriots--the true aristocracy of man. Indeed, Mr. Carlyle has broadly stated that Universal
History is, at bottom, but the history of Great Men. They certainly mark and designate the
epochs of national life. Their influence is active, as well as reactive. Though their mind
is, in a measure; the product of their age, the public mind is also, to a great extent, their
creation. Their individual action identifies the cause--the institution. They think great thoughts,
cast them abroad, and the thoughts make events. Thus the early Reformers initiated the Reformation,
and with it the liberation of modern thought. Emerson has said that every institution is to
be regarded as but the lengthened shadow of some great man: as Islamism of Mahomet, Puritanism
of Calvin, Jesuitism of Loyola, Quakerism of Fox, Methodism of Wesley, Abolitionism of Clarkson.

Great men stamp their mind upon their age and nation--as Luther did upon modern Germany, and
Knox upon Scotland. [1018] And if there be one man more than another that stamped his mind
on modern Italy, it was Dante. During the long centuries of Italian degradation his burning
words were as a watchfire and a beacon to all true men. He was the herald of his nation's liberty--braving
persecution, exile, and death, for the love of it. He was always the most national of the Italian
poets, the most loved, the most read. From the time of his death all educated Italians had
his best passages by heart; and the sentiments they enshrined inspired their lives, and eventually
influenced the history of their nation. "The Italians," wrote Byron in 1821, "talk Dante, write
Dante, and think and dream Dante, at this moment, to an excess which would be ridiculous, but
that he deserves their admiration." [1019]

A succession of variously gifted men in different ages--extending from Alfred to Albert--has
in like manner contributed, by their life and example, to shape the multiform character of
England. Of these, probably the most influential were the men of the Elizabethan and Cromwellian,
and the intermediate periods--amongst which we find the great names of Shakspeare, Raleigh,
Burleigh, Sidney, Bacon, Milton, Herbert, Hampden, Pym, Eliot, Vane, Cromwell, and many more--some
of them men of great force, and others of great dignity and purity of character. The lives
of such men have become part of the public life of England, and their deeds and thoughts are
regarded as among the most cherished bequeathments from the past. [1020]

But it is not great men only that have to be taken into account in estimating the qualities
of a nation, but the character that pervades the great body of the people. When Washington
Irving visited Abbotsford, Sir Walter Scott introduced him to many of his friends and favourites,
not only amongst the neighbouring farmers, but the labouring peasantry. "I wish to show you,"
said Scott, "some of our really excellent plain Scotch people. The character of a nation is
not to be learnt from its fine folks, its fine gentlemen and ladies; such you meet everywhere,
and they are everywhere the same." While statesmen, philosophers, and divines represent the
thinking power of society, the men who found industries and carve out new careers, as well
as the common body of working-people, from whom the national strength and spirit are from time
to time recruited, must necessarily furnish the vital force and constitute the real backbone
of every nation.

Nations have their character to maintain as well as individuals; and under constitutional governments--where
all classes more or less participate in the exercise of political power--the national character
will necessarily depend more upon the moral qualities of the many than of the few. And the
same qualities which determine the character of individuals, also determine the character of
nations. Unless they are highminded, truthful, honest, virtuous, and courageous, they will
be held in light esteem by other nations, and be without weight in the world. To have character,
they must needs also be reverential, disciplined, self-controlling, and devoted to duty. The
nation that has no higher god than pleasure, or even dollars or calico, must needs be in a
poor way. It were better to revert to Homer's gods than be devoted to these; for the heathen
deities at least imaged human virtues, and were something to look up to.

As for institutions, however good in themselves, they will avail but little in maintaining
the standard of national character. It is the individual men, and the spirit which actuates
them, that determine the moral standing and stability of nations. Government, in the long run,
is usually no better than the people governed. Where the mass is sound in conscience, morals,
and habit, the nation will be ruled honestly and nobly. But where they are corrupt, self-seeking,
and dishonest in heart, bound neither by truth nor by law, the rule of rogues and wirepullers
becomes inevitable.

The only true barrier against the despotism of public opinion, whether it be of the many or
of the few, is enlightened individual freedom and purity of personal character. Without these
there can be no vigorous manhood, no true liberty in a nation. Political rights, however broadly
framed, will not elevate a people individually depraved. Indeed, the more complete a system
of popular suffrage, and the more perfect its protection, the more completely will the real
character of a people be reflected, as by a mirror, in their laws and government. Political
morality can never have any solid existence on a basis of individual immorality. Even freedom,
exercised by a debased people, would come to be regarded as a nuisance, and liberty of the
press but a vent for licentiousness and moral abomination.

Nations, like individuals, derive support and strength from the feeling that they belong to
an illustrious race, that they are the heirs of their greatness, and ought to be the perpetuators
of their glory. It is of momentous importance that a nation should have a great past [1021]
to look back upon. It steadies the life of the present, elevates and upholds it, and lightens
and lifts it up, by the memory of the great deeds, the noble sufferings, and the valorous achievements
of the men of old. The life of nations, as of men, is a great treasury of experience, which,
wisely used, issues in social progress and improvement; or, misused, issues in dreams, delusions,
and failure. Like men, nations are purified and strengthened by trials. Some of the most glorious
chapters in their history are those containing the record of the sufferings by means of which
their character has been developed. Love of liberty and patriotic feeling may have done much,
but trial and suffering nobly borne more than all.

A great deal of what passes by the name of patriotism in these days consists of the merest
bigotry and narrow-mindedness; exhibiting itself in national prejudice, national conceit, amid
national hatred. It does not show itself in deeds, but in boastings--in howlings, gesticulations,
and shrieking helplessly for help--in flying flags and singing songs--and in perpetual grinding
at the hurdy-gurdy of long-dead grievances and long-remedied wrongs. To be infested by SUCH
a patriotism as this is, perhaps, amongst the greatest curses that can befall any country.

But as there is an ignoble, so is there a noble patriotism--the patriotism that invigorates
and elevates a country by noble work--that does its duty truthfully and manfully--that lives
an honest, sober, and upright life, and strives to make the best use of the opportunities for
improvement that present themselves on every side; and at the same time a patriotism that cherishes
the memory and example of the great men of old, who, by their sufferings in the cause of religion
or of freedom, have won for themselves a deathless glory, and for their nation those privileges
of free life and free institutions of which they are the inheritors and possessors.

Nations are not to be judged by their size any more than individuals:

    "it is not growing like a tree
    In bulk, doth make Man better be."

For a nation to be great, it need not necessarily be big, though bigness is often confounded
with greatness. A nation may be very big in point of territory and population and yet be devoid
of true greatness. The people of Israel were a small people, yet what a great life they developed,
and how powerful the influence they have exercised on the destinies of mankind! Greece was
not big: the entire population of Attica was less than that of South Lancashire. Athens was
less populous than New York; and yet how great it was in art, in literature, in philosophy,
and in patriotism! [1022]

But it was the fatal weakness of Athens that its citizens had no true family or home life,
while its freemen were greatly outnumbered by its slaves. Its public men were loose, if not
corrupt, in morals. Its women, even the most accomplished, were unchaste. Hence its fall became
inevitable, and was even more sudden than its rise.

In like manner the decline and fall of Rome was attributable to the general corruption of its
people, and to their engrossing love of pleasure and idleness--work, in the later days of Rome,
being regarded only as fit for slaves. Its citizens ceased to pride themselves on the virtues
of character of their great forefathers; and the empire fell because it did not deserve to
live. And so the nations that are idle and luxurious--that "will rather lose a pound of blood,"
as old Burton says, "in a single combat, than a drop of sweat in any honest labour"--must inevitably
die out, and laborious energetic nations take their place.

When Louis XIV. asked Colbert how it was that, ruling so great and populous a country as France,
he had been unable to conquer so small a country as Holland, the minister replied: "Because,
Sire, the greatness of a country does not depend upon the extent of its territory, but on the
character of its people. It is because of the industry, the frugality, and the energy of the
Dutch that your Majesty has found them so difficult to overcome."

It is also related of Spinola and Richardet, the ambassadors sent by the King of Spain to negotiate
a treaty at the Hague in 1608, that one day they saw some eight or ten persons land from a
little boat, and, sitting down upon the grass, proceed to make a meal of bread-and-cheese and
beer. "Who are those travellers?" asked the ambassadors of a peasant. "These are worshipful
masters, the deputies from the States," was his reply. Spinola at once whispered to his companion,
"We must make peace: these are not men to be conquered."

In fine, stability of institutions must depend upon stability of character. Any number of depraved
units cannot form a great nation. The people may seem to be highly civilised, and yet be ready
to fall to pieces at first touch of adversity. Without integrity of individual character, they
can have no real strength, cohesion, soundness. They may be rich, polite, and artistic; and
yet hovering on the brink of ruin. If living for themselves only, and with no end but pleasure--each
little self his own little god--such a nation is doomed, and its decay is inevitable.

Where national character ceases to be upheld, a nation may be regarded as next to lost. Where
it ceases to esteem and to practise the virtues of truthfulness, honesty, integrity, and justice,
it does not deserve to live. And when the time arrives in any country when wealth has so corrupted,
or pleasure so depraved, or faction so infatuated the people, that honour, order, obedience,
virtue, and loyalty have seemingly become things of the past; then, amidst the darkness, when
honest men--if, haply, there be such left--are groping about and feeling for each other's hands,
their only remaining hope will be in the restoration and elevation of Individual Character;
for by that alone can a nation be saved; and if character be irrecoverably lost, then indeed
there will be nothing left worth saving.

CHAPTER II.--HOME POWER.

        "So build we up the being that we are,
         Thus deeply drinking in the soul of things,
         We shall be wise perforce."  WORDSWORTH.

    "The millstreams that turn the clappers of the world
     arise in solitary places."--HELPS.

     "In the course of a conversation with Madame Campan,
     Napoleon Buonaparte remarked: 'The old systems of
     instruction seem to be worth nothing; what is yet wanting in
     order that the people should be properly educated?'
     'MOTHERS,' replied Madame Campan. The reply struck the
     Emperor. 'Yes!' said he 'here is a system of education in
     one word. Be it your care, then, to train up mothers who
     shall know how to educate their children.'"--AIME MARTIN.

HOME is the first and most important school of character.

The training of any man, even the wisest, cannot fail to be powerfully influenced by the moral
surroundings of his early years. He comes into the world helpless, and absolutely dependent
upon those about him for nurture and culture. From the very first breath that he draws, his
education begins. When a mother once asked a clergyman when she should begin the education
of her child, then four years old, he replied: "Madam, if you have not begun already, you have
lost those four years. From the first smile that gleams upon an infant's cheek, your opportunity
begins."

