The Gospel of Luke

                              An Exposition

                                    By

                            Charles R. Erdman

                     Professor of Practical Theology

                     Princeton Theological Seminary,

                          Princeton, New Jersey

                               Philadelphia

                          The Westminster Press

                                   1936

CONTENTS

FOREWORD
INTRODUCTION
I. The Preface To the Gospel. Luke 1:1-4
II. The Birth and Childhood of Jesus. Chs. 1:5 to 2:52
   A. The Birth of John Foretold. Chs. 1:5-25
   B. The Annunciation To Mary. Ch. 1:26-38
   C. The “Magnificat.” Ch. 1:39-56
   D. The Birth of John, and the “Benedictus.” Ch. 1:57-80
   E. The Birth of Jesus. Ch. 2:1-20
   F. The Presentation of Jesus, and the “Nunc Dimittis.” Ch. 2:21-40
   G. The Boy Jesus At Jerusalem. Ch. 2:41-52
III. The Preparation. Chs. 3:1 to 4:13
   A. The Preaching Of John. Ch. 3:1-20
   B. The Baptism Of Jesus. Ch. 3:21, 22
   C. The Genealogy Of Jesus. Ch. 3:23-38
   D. The Temptation Of Jesus. Ch. 4:1-13
IV. The Ministry in Galilee. Chs. 4:14 to 9:50
   A. The First Period. Ch. 4:14-44
      1. Jesus Preaching at Nazareth. Ch. 4:14-30
      2. Jesus Performing Miracles at Capernaum. Ch. 4:31-44
   B. The Second Period. Chs. 5:1 to 6:11
      1. The Call of the First Disciples. Ch. 5:1-11
      2. Jesus Cleansing a Leper. Ch. 5:12-16
      3. Jesus Forgiving Sins. Ch. 5:17-26
      4. The Call of Levi. Ch. 5:27-32
      5. The Question of Fasting. Ch. 5:33-39
      6. The Sabbath Controversy. Ch. 6:1-11
   C. The Third Period. Chs. 6:12 to 8:56
      1. The Choice of the Twelve. Ch. 6:12-19
      2. The Great Sermon. Ch. 6:20-49
      3. The Centurion of Capernaum. Ch. 7:1-10
      4. Jesus Raising the Widow’s Son. Ch. 7:11-17
      5. Jesus Praising John. Ch. 7:18-35
      6. A Sinful Woman Forgiven. Ch. 7:36-50
      7. The Ministering Women. Ch. 8:1-3
      8. The Parable of the Sower. Ch. 8:4-18
      9. Kinship with Jesus. Ch. 8:19-21
      10. Jesus Stilling the Storm. Ch. 8:22-25
      11. A Demoniac Healed. Ch. 8:26-39
      12. The Daughter of Jairus and the Woman with an Issue of Blood. Ch.
      8:40-56
   D. The Fourth Period. Ch. 9:1-50
      1. The Mission of the Twelve. Ch. 9:1-9
      2. The Five Thousand Fed. Ch. 9:10-17
      3. Jesus Predicting his Death. Ch. 9:18-27
      4. The Transfiguration. Ch. 9:28-36
      5. The Demoniac Boy. Ch. 9:37-45
      6. Jesus Rebuking Pride and Bigotry. Ch. 9:46-50
V. The Journeys Toward Jerusalem. Chs. 9:51 to 19:28
   A. The First Stages. Ch. 9:51 to 13:21
      1. The Inhospitable Samaritans. Ch. 9:51-56
      2. Jesus Rebuking Rashness, Insincerity, and Indecision. Ch. 9:57-62
      3. The Mission of the Seventy. Ch. 10:1-24
      4. The Good Samaritan. Ch. 10:25-37
      5. Martha and Mary. Ch. 10:38-42
      6. Jesus’ Teaching Concerning Prayer. Ch. 11:1-13
      7. Jesus Rebuking Blasphemy and Unbelief. Ch. 11:14-36
      8. Pharisaism Exposed and Denounced. Ch. 11:37-54
      9. Faithful Testimony Encouraged. Ch. 12:1-12
      10. A Warning Against Covetousness. Ch. 12:13-21
      11. The Cure of Anxiety. Ch. 12:22-34
      12. An Exhortation to Watchfulness. Ch. 12:35-48
      13. The Divisive Influence of Christ. Ch. 12:49-59
      14. A Call to Repentance. Ch. 13:1-9
      15. A Cure on the Sabbath. Ch. 13:10-21
   B. The Second Stages. Chs. 13:22 to 17:10
      1. The Narrow Door. Ch. 13:22-30
      2. The Message to Herod and the Lament Over Jerusalem. Ch. 13:31-35
      3. Jesus as a Sabbath Guest. Ch. 14:1-24
      4. Counting the Cost. Ch. 14:25-35
      5. The Prodigal Son. Ch. 15
      6. The Unrighteous Steward. Ch. 16:1-13
      7. The Rich Man and Lazarus. Ch. 16:14-31
      8. Warnings to the Disciples. Ch. 17:1-10
   C. The Last Stages. Chs. 17:11 to 19:28
      1. The Samaritan Leper. Ch. 17:11-19
      2. The Coming of the Kingdom. Ch. 17:20-37
      3. The Unrighteous Judge. Ch. 18:1-8
      4. The Pharisee and the Publican. Ch. 18:9-14
      5. Jesus Receiving Little Children. Ch. 18:15-17
      6. The Rich Ruler. Ch. 18:18-30
      7. Jesus Again Foretelling His Death. Ch. 18:31-34
      8. The Blind Man at Jericho. Ch. 18:35-43
      9. The Conversion of Zacchaeus. Ch. 19:1-10
      10. The Parable of the Pounds. Ch. 19:11-28
VI. The Closing Ministry. Chs. 19:29 to 21:38
   A. The Triumphal Entry. Ch. 19:29-48
   B. The Question As To Authority. Ch. 20:1-8
   C. The Parable Of The Husbandmen. Ch. 20:9-18
   D. The Question As To Paying Tribute. Ch. 20:19-26
   E. The Question As To The Resurrection. Ch. 20:27-40
   F. The Question Of Jesus. Ch. 20:41-44
   G. The Warning Against The Scribes. Ch. 20:45-47
   H. The Widow’s Mites. Ch. 21:1-4
   I. The Destruction Of Jerusalem And The Coming Of Christ. Ch. 21:5-38
      1. The Present Age. Ch. 21:5-19
      2. The Destruction of Jerusalem. Ch. 21:20-24
      3. The Coming of Christ. Ch. 21:25-28
      4. The Encouragement to Hope and Vigilance. Ch. 21:29-36
      5. The Historic Statement. Ch. 21:37, 38
VII. The Death and Resurrection. Chs. 22 to 24
   A. The Treachery Of Judas. Ch. 22:1-6
   B. The Last Supper. Ch. 22:7-38
   C. The Agony In Gethsemane. Ch. 22:39-46
   D. The Arrest Of Jesus. Ch. 22:47-53
   E. Peter’s Denial. Ch. 22:54-62
   F. Jesus Before The Jewish Rulers. Ch. 22:63-71
   G. Jesus Before Pilate. Ch. 23:1-25
   H. The Crucifixion. Ch. 23:26-38
   I. The Penitent Thief. Ch. 23:39-43
   J. The Death And Burial. Ch. 23:44-56
   K. The Empty Tomb. Ch. 24:1-12
   L. The Walk To Emmaus. Ch. 24:13-35
   M. Jesus Appearing To The Apostles. Ch. 24:36-43
   N. The Last Words. Ch. 24:44-49
   O. The Ascension. Ch.

TO THE MEN WHO LONG TO BE LIKE HIM

FOREWORD

The Gospel of Luke is the most beautiful book in the world; at least, so it has been called,
and those who know it best are not likely to dispute such praise. The purpose of this little
volume is to place the book in convenient form, and by an outline and brief comments to aid
in focusing the thought of the reader upon the successive scenes of the gospel story. These
are familiar scenes, but each review of them more vividly reveals the great central Figure
as supreme among men in the matchless loveliness of his divine manhood, himself the perfect,
the ideal Man.

INTRODUCTION

The surpassing beauty of this book betokens the personal attractiveness of its author and the
dignity and importance of its theme. It was written by Luke, “the beloved physician,” and it
concerns the life and saving work of our Lord. The phrase which describes the writer as “the
physician, the beloved one,” is full of significance. It was penned by Paul, when a prisoner
in Rome, to his friends in distant Colossæ. It indicates that Luke was a man of culture and
scientific training and that the charm of his character was so conspicuous as to be recognized
by the Christian churches of Europe and of Asia. The connection in which this phrase occurs
indicates that Luke was not a Jew but a Gentile by birth, and further, that he was a close
companion of Paul.

To Luke’s authorship is attributed not only this “Third Gospel” but also “The Acts.” He was
a man of such modesty that he never mentioned his own name even when recording the stirring
events in which he played so prominent a part. Nevertheless he revealed himself in every page
of his writings and was evidently a man of broad sympathies, an acute observer, a careful historian,
and a loyal friend.

The story of his companionship with Paul begins in the record of the apostle’s second missionary
journey when he was about to sail from Troas on the memorable voyage which resulted in establishing
Christianity on a new continent. The two friends journeyed together to Philippi, where a strong
church was founded; but while Paul continued his travels through Macedonia and Greece, Luke
remained behind, possibly to care for the young converts. Seven years later when Paul was on
his third missionary tour he seems to have found Luke at Philippi and to have been accompanied
by him on his way to Jerusalem. When Paul was arrested and was confined for two years at Cæsarea,
Luke was his companion. Later they shared together the perils of the voyage and the shipwreck
on the way to Rome, and the imprisonment in the imperial city. Paul appears to have been released
and then imprisoned a second time, and when he wrote his last letter, under the shadow of approaching
martyrdom, the only friend to remain faithful and to comfort him in his loneliness was Luke.

As might be expected, the narrative composed by such an author is characterized by (1) unusual
literary beauty; it is plainly the product of Greek culture. The divine Spirit chose and equipped
a rare instrument in the poetic and refined personality of Luke and through him gave to the
world that version of the gospel story which is most exquisite in style and most finished in form.

Yet Luke was not only a man of culture, he was also a Christian physician and thus a man of
wide and tender sympathies, and his narrative is therefore characterized (2) by its absorbing
human interest. It is a story of real life; it is suffused with emotion; it is full of gladness
and sorrow, of songs and of tears; it is vocal with praise and with prayer.

It is the gospel of childhood. By its tender stories of the birth of John and of Jesus, it
places an unfading halo of glory about the brow of infancy, and it alone preserves the precious
picture of the boyhood of our Lord. It is the gospel of womanhood. It sketches for us that
immortal group of women associated with the life of Jesus. We see Elisabeth and the virgin
mother and the aged Anna, the widow of Nain, the sisters at Bethany, and the repentant sinner,
the sufferer bowed down by Satan and the stranger who congratulates Mary, the company that
minister to Jesus on his journeys and the “daughters of Jerusalem” weeping on the way to the cross.

It is the gospel of the home. It gives us glimpses of the family life at Nazareth, of the scene
in the house of Simon, of the hospitality of Martha and Mary, of the evening meal with the
two disciples at Emmaus and the picture in the parables of the importunate friend at midnight,
of the woman searching the room for the lost coin and of the prodigal turning back to his father’s
house.

It is the gospel of the poor and the lowly; it warns against the perils of wealth and expresses
sympathy and hope for those who are oppressed by poverty and want. This sympathy is sounded
in the song of Mary, in the first sermon of the Saviour, in the first Beatitude, “Blessed are
ye poor.” Luke also records the parables of the Rich Fool and of the Rich Man and Lazarus,
and paints, with Mark, the picture of the widow offering to the Lord her two mites.

It is also the gospel of praise and of prayer, expressions of the deepest convictions and longings
of the human heart. The Gospel opens with a scene in the Temple at the hour of incense and
with the “Magnificat” of Mary and the songs of Zacharias and of the angels. It closes with
the benediction of the ascending Lord and the thanksgiving of his joyful disciples.

Luke, however, was not only a man of culture and a beloved physician; he was also a companion
of Paul and had traveled with the apostle over a great portion of the Roman world; therefore
he naturally wrote a gospel characterized by (3) universal interest. Here no narrow prejudice
divides race from race; a despised Samaritan stands as the supreme example of a neighbor, the
angels sing of peace among men, and the aged Simeon declares that Jesus is to be a “light for
revelation to the Gentiles” as well as the glory of Israel. Luke alone gives the data which
link the sacred story to the secular history of the world. His outlook is unlimited. He regards
the good news concerning Christ as a message which is vital to the welfare and redemption of
the entire human race.

These aspects of his Gospel blend with the picture of his Lord which Luke portrays. The character
of Jesus is so subtle and complex as to defy exact analysis, and yet it is evident that certain
of its features, common to all, are emphasized successively by each one of the Gospel writers.
Matthew depicts its majesty, Mark its strength, and John its sublimity; but Luke reveals its
beauty, and paints a picture of the ideal Man, the Saviour of the world.

As to all the prime elements of perfect manhood, possibly no two persons may agree; yet none
would deny that such was the manhood of Jesus, and none would question that there are two or
three moral qualities which he exhibited in a superlative degree, qualities upon which Luke
lays special stress.

First of all Jesus manifested matchless courage. To some interpreters this fearlessness has
formed the very essence of the “manliness of Christ.” He was not a weak and nerveless preacher
of righteousness, but a man of strength, of dauntless resolve, and of courageous action. The
mob was eager to destroy him as he began his work in Nazareth, but his enemies quailed before
his majestic presence, as “he passing through the midst of them went his way.” He was advised
to flee from the realm of Herod but he flung defiance to the king, beginning his message with
the words, “Go and say to that fox.” The section of ten chapters in this Gospel which describes
the last journeys of our Lord opens with a deeply significant phrase, “He steadfastly set his
face to go to Jerusalem.” Only five chapters devoted to his ministry precede, only five follow.
During all the long period described in the chapters between, Jesus plainly foresaw his coming
rejection and suffering and death, but fearlessly and with unfaltering step he moved onward
to the cross. All the heroisms of history are dwarfed to insignificance by this incomparable
courage of Christ.

More obvious still is the boundless and tender sympathy of this ideal Man. This world has no
other picture of such perfect compassion, tenderness, and love; and these are essential to
true manhood.

More mysterious, but none the less real, was his constant faith. His life was lived in continual
fellowship with God. In his first recorded saying he declared, “I must be in my Father’s house,”
and at the last he breathed out his spirit on the cross with the words, “Father, into thy hands
I commend my spirit.” All the intervening days of his life and ministry were filled with ceaseless
prayer. On at least seven other occasions it is stated that he was praying: at his baptism,
ch. 3:21; after healing the leper, ch. 5:16; before choosing his disciples, ch. 6:12; before
Peter’s great confession, ch. 9:18; at his transfiguration, ch. 9:29; before teaching his disciples
to pray, ch. 11:1; in the first agonies of crucifixion, ch. 23:34. So, too, he taught his disciples
to pray with importunity, ch. 11:5-10, with perseverance, ch. 18:1-7, and with penitence, ch.
18:9-14. Such trust in God, such sympathy, such bravery, are surely prominent among the many
elements which are blended in this impressive portrayal of the ideal Man.

However, Luke has written a version of the gospel and therefore has produced much more than
a picture of human perfection or the story of an ideal life. The gospel is the “good news”
of salvation secured for us by our Lord; and in the narrative of Luke we behold One who was
not only supreme in his manhood but was also the Saviour of the world. It was in accomplishing
this redeeming work that he revealed such courage and so steadfastly set his face to go to
Jerusalem. The salvation he secured is inseparable from the cross.

It was a salvation provided for all, even as his sympathy knew no bounds but was extended to
the last and the lowest of men—to the despised publican, to the outcast sinner, to the hated
Samaritan, to the crucified thief.

Then, too, as he ever trusted in his Father, so the salvation he secured to us is conditioned
upon faith in himself as Redeemer and Lord, a faith which implies repentance and trust and
submission and sacrifice. One must be willing to count the cost, to abandon anything which
stands between self and the Master. This salvation, however, is wholly of grace, unmerited,
free, provided by the Father for all who yield themselves to the loving care of his Son.

This salvation was to be proclaimed to all the nations. Those to whom it became known, and
by whom it was accepted, were to become witnesses to the transforming truth. For such testimony
they would require courage and wide sympathy and unfaltering faith, and in their courage and
sympathy and faith they would be like their Master who by such qualities was manifested as
the ideal Man as he was the divine Saviour of the world.

I. THE PREFACE TO THE GOSPEL. LUKE 1:1-4

    1 Forasmuch as many have taken in hand to draw up a narrative
    concerning those matters which have been fulfilled among us, 2
    even as they delivered them unto us, who from the beginning were
    eyewitnesses and ministers of the word, 3 it seemed good to me
    also, having traced the course of all things accurately from the
    first, to write unto thee in order, most excellent Theophilus; 4
    that thou mightest know the certainty concerning the things
    wherein thou wast instructed.

This preface is a perfect gem of Greek art; even in the English Version it loses little, if
anything, of its literary charm. As a prologue it is regarded as unsurpassed for brevity, modesty,
and dignity. However, its value lies not in its beauty but in its testimony to the veracity
of the writer and to the historic worth and absolute credibility of the gospel story. The fact
of inspiration should not blind us to the human means by which the Spirit of God secured accuracy
in the communication of truth and in the composition of the Holy Scriptures.

Here we are admitted to the study of a great historian. We see about him his tools and his
material; we are informed as to his motives and methods in work, and are told of the qualifications
he possesses for his great task. First of all, he has before him many written accounts of the
ministry of Christ. He does not reject these as inaccurate but regards any one of them as inadequate.
By comparing and combining them he secures valuable outlines for his more complete narrative.

Then, too, he intimates that he is living and writing amidst the scenes and in the very atmosphere
of the events he is recording; only recently, as he indicates, have these “matters ... been
fulfilled.” Again, he has access to the testimony of men who were eyewitnesses of these events
and who have been public teachers of the gospel.

Further, he assures us of the absolute accuracy with which he has investigated the incidents
of the life and ministry of Christ, even from the earliest scenes; he has sifted his material
and weighed the evidence and is to record only established facts.

These facts he is to relate “in order,” that is, in the sequence of time, and further still,
with the system and the careful regard to proportion and to completeness which should characterize
a scientific, historical composition.

Then again he dedicates the book to Theophilus whose title, “most excellent,” indicates that
he is a man of rank and official position, one to whom an author would not venture to present
hasty, imperfect, and inaccurate work, especially when the one addressed had been instructed
already in reference to the matters related.

Thus this preface shows the supreme purpose of Luke was to confirm the
belief of Theophilus, who is apparently his patron and friend, and to
deepen his conviction of the truth of the gospel story. Surely, such an
introduction must remind every reader that our Christian faith is based
upon an impregnable foundation of historic fact. 16 And
    many of the children of Israel shall he turn unto the Lord their
    God. 18 And Zacharias said unto
    the angel, Whereby shall I know this? for I am an old man, and my
    wife well stricken in years. 20
    And behold, thou shalt be silent and not able to speak, until the
    day that these things shall come to pass, because thou believedst
    not my words, which shall be fulfilled in their season. 23 And it came to pass, when the days of his ministration
    were fulfilled, he departed unto his house.

    24 And after these days Elisabeth his wife conceived; and she hid
    herself five months, saying, 25 Thus hath the Lord done unto me in
    the days wherein he looked upon me, to take away my reproach
    among men.

Luke is the gospel of gladness, of praise, and of prayer, of tender, human interest, and of
heavenly grace. It is fitting, therefore, that the narrative should open with a scene in the
Temple at the hour of incense and with a divine promise which fills a heart with rapturous
joy. This promise concerns the birth of one who is to prepare the way for the ministry of Christ,
and this ministry forms the sum and substance of the gospel story.

The time was “in the days of Herod,” called “the Great,” a monster of cruelty, a vassal of
Rome, who ruled the Jews with savage tyranny. The political slavery of the people was only
less pitiful than their spiritual decline, for religion had become an empty form, a mere system
of ceremonies and rites. However, God is never without his witnesses and his true worshipers.
Among these were “a certain priest named Zacharias” and his wife Elisabeth, who lived in the
hill country of Judea, south of Jerusalem. They “were both righteous before God,” not sinless
but without reproach, carefully observing the moral and also the ritual requirements of the
law. Yet godliness is no guarantee against sorrow or against the disappointment of human hopes,
and these pious souls were saddened because their home was childless. This trial was peculiarly
great among a people who regarded childlessness as a sign of divine displeasure and it was
even more distressing to the hearts of the faithful who were yearning for the birth of the
promised Messiah.

Twice each year Zacharias went to Jerusalem to perform for a week his sacred tasks. Finally
there came to him a privilege which a priest could enjoy only once in his lifetime; the “lot”
fell upon him, and he thus was chosen to enter the Holy Place at the hour of prayer and there
offer incense upon the golden altar just before the veil in the very presence of God. It was
the supreme hour of his life. As the cloud of perfume began to rise, true symbol of accepted
petitions, an angel appeared and assured the startled priest that his supplications had been
heard. For what had Zacharias then been praying—for a son, or for the salvation of his people?
Were not both desires included in that supplication? As the representative of a nation, the
priest hardly could have confined his petition to what was purely personal and private. Yet,
as he pleaded for the coming of the Messiah, there must have been in his soul the secret yearning
of the long years or the memory of that abandoned hope which he had always associated in thought
with the salvation of Israel. Many a minister of Christ has a similar experience; in the very
performance of his public tasks there rests on his soul the conscious shadow of some private grief.

The angel declared that the prayer for national salvation had been heard, and he gradually
unfolded the contents of the divine answer; the Messiah was about to appear, and his coming
was to be heralded by a son who was to be born to the aged priest. The angel spoke with great
definiteness: the child would be named John; many would rejoice at his birth; he would be a
Nazirite, and as such would take the vow of total abstinence from wine and of complete dedication
to God; as a consequence of this dedication he would be filled with the divine Spirit and thus
enabled to lead his people to repentance. He would labor in the spirit and power of Elijah,
calling men to lives of natural affection and justice and preparing them for the salvation
which Christ would bring.

So surprising a message was too great to be credited at once by the wondering priest. He had
ceased to hope that the longing of his heart could be fulfilled. He therefore asked for a sign
by which he might be assured that the blessed promise was true. The angel replied with a statement
of his own majestic power and the glory of his mission and he granted to Zacharias a sign.
This sign was at once a rebuke and a blessing. It rebuked the unbelief of the aged priest,
yet it strengthened his faith. He was smitten with dumbness which was to continue until the
promise of the angel had been realized. Zacharias would not accept the word of the Lord; he
would not praise him for his goodness and his grace. Therefore, his tongue was to be silent
and he was to be unable to speak until at last his lips were opened in glad thanksgiving. Unbelief
is never joyous; infidelity has no songs.

However, the sign suggests supernatural power. The faith of Zacharias and also of Elisabeth
will be strengthened by the very silence in their home. So when the people in the court of
the Temple waited for the priest to reappear, when as he came they still waited for the usual
benediction, when they found that Zacharias had been stricken with dumbness, they concluded
he had seen a vision in the Temple, and he himself was assured that the messenger had come
from God. In due time the promise was fulfilled; a new life came into being. Meanwhile, until
it would be evident that her “reproach” for childlessness had been taken away, Elisabeth lived
in strict retirement. She would not have others, by seeing her, think that she was under divine
displeasure at the very time when she secretly knew that she was a special recipient of divine
grace. She was jealous for the glory of her God; she delighted in her hidden fellowship with
him. From the homes of such priests who can pray, and of such hearts which can trust, there
ever have been coming the great prophets of the Lord.

B. The Annunciation To Mary. Ch. 28 And he came in unto her, and said, Hail, thou
    that art highly favored, the Lord is with thee. 34 And Mary
    said unto the angel, How shall this be, seeing I know not a man?
    35 And the angel answered and said unto her, The Holy Spirit shall
    come upon thee, and the power of the Most High shall overshadow
    thee: wherefore also the holy thing which is begotten shall be
    called the Son of God. 37 For no word from God
    shall be void of power. 38 And Mary said, Behold, the handmaid of
    the Lord; be it unto me according to thy word. And the angel
    departed from her.

The prediction to Mary of the birth of Jesus is recorded by Luke with marked dignity, delicacy,
and reserve. It is an important record. This prediction is the crown of all prophecy and it
reveals the supreme mystery of the Christian faith, namely, the nature of our Lord, at once
human and divine.

The same angelic being who had spoken to Zacharias speaks again, not now to an aged and distinguished
priest amidst the splendors of the Temple in Jerusalem, but to a humble maiden betrothed to
a carpenter in an obscure village of Galilee. The angelic salutation, “Hail, thou that art
highly favored,” has been translated less accurately, “Hail, thou that art full of grace,”
and it has been misinterpreted to encourage the practice of praying to the virgin as divine.
It does not mean, however, that Mary was to be a source but rather a recipient of grace; upon
her God was bestowing peculiar favor. She may rightly be regarded as the most blessed among
women; but only a woman still. It is a rule on earth which here is promised, yet it is not
to be limited to one nation nor is it to be confined to one age. It is the Kingdom of the Messiah,
which is to bring joy to “the house of Jacob for ever” and also to all the nations of the world—“and
of his kingdom there shall be no end.”

The exclamation of Mary expressed astonishment but not unbelief: “How shall this be?” Then
came the answer which is unsurpassed as a clear and sublime statement of the incarnation, “The
Holy Spirit shall come upon thee, and the power of the Most High shall overshadow thee;” the
creative power of God was to rest upon Mary as the cloud of glory had rested upon the tabernacle
of Israel and as a result the child who would be born should be in reality, and should be called,
“the Son of God.” Of the truth of his promise the angel added a sign and proof in the surprising
fact that Elisabeth, the aged kinswoman of Mary, was soon to be blessed with a son. This was
in fulfillment of a promise made by the same angel messenger, and the marvel in the case of
Elisabeth would assure Mary of the certain accomplishment of the gracious and more surprising
promise to her. The reply of Mary is probably unequaled in all history as an expression of
perfect faith, “Behold the handmaid of the Lord; be it unto me according to thy word.” Thus
she revealed belief in the word of God and submission to the will of God. There was no doubt
in her mind as to the truth of the divine promise with all that it suggested of miracle and
of mystery; and there was no shrinking on her part from all that the fulfillment of this promise
possibly might involve of suspicion and shame and reproach and suffering and even death. Those
who believe most firmly in the promises of God, submit most patiently to his providences; they
see the glory which surely will succeed the gloom. Mary was to become the mother of the Messiah,
of the Son of Man, of the Saviour of the world.

C. The “Magnificat.” Ch.

    44 For behold, when the voice of thy salutation came into mine
    ears, the babe leaped in my womb for joy.
    52 He hath put down princes from their thrones,
      And hath exalted them of low degree.
    53 The hungry he hath filled with good things;
      And the rich he hath sent empty away.

The Magnificat, the lovely lyric which comes from the lips of Mary, has been sung during many
centuries as one of the chief canticles of the Christian Church. Its occasion was a visit paid
to her kinswoman, Elisabeth, by Mary shortly after she had received the promise of the birth
of a son. Elisabeth on hearing the salutation of Mary addressed her in high spiritual ecstasy,
declaring her supremely blessed among women because of the Son to be born, and wondering at
her own honor in being thus visited by the mother of her Lord, by which phrase she means the
mother of the Messiah; it is to be noted that the Bible does not contain the phrase “Mother
of God.” Elisabeth congratulated Mary upon her faith and assured her that the promise upon
which Mary relied was certain to be fulfilled.

The name of the song which Mary then sang, the Magnificat, has come from the first line in
its Latin form, Magnificat anima mea Dominum. The model is that of the ancient hymn sung by
Hannah when her heart, like that of Mary, was rejoicing in the promised gift of a son. The
verses form a perfect mosaic of Old Testament quotations. The hymn was not addressed to Elisabeth
or to the Lord; it is rather a meditation upon the mercy and grace of God.

According to the common division the song is composed of four stanzas of four lines each, except
the third stanza which contains six lines. The general movement of thought seems to be from
the goodness of God to Mary as an individual, to his consequent kindness to Israel as a nation.

The first stanza, or strophe, vs. 46-48, illustrates, as do those which follow, one of the
chief features of Hebrew poetry, namely, the expression, in successive lines, of thoughts which
are parallel or closely related. In her “soul” or “spirit” or innermost being, Mary praises
or magnifies the Lord and rejoices in him as her Saviour. This salvation is not only for her
people, but particularly for herself; it is not only political but also spiritual. It is to
be wrought out by the gift God is granting to Mary. He has chosen her, an obscure village maiden
betrothed to a poor carpenter, and has bestowed upon her such honor that all future generations
will call her “blessed.” While realizing the honor she dwells most upon her unworthiness while
recognizing what it may cost her, she declares her submission as a true “bondmaid” or slave
of the Lord. Humility and faith could hardly be more sublime.

The second stanza, vs. 49, 50, centers the thought upon the character of God as revealed in
his gracious gift. His power, his holiness, his mercy are praised. In his goodness to Mary
he had shown his divine power, yet in accordance with the moral perfection of his revealed
nature and in order to bring blessings to countless generations who would trust and reverence him.

In the third stanza, vs. 51-53, is an illustration of another feature of Hebrew poetry; not
only is there striking parallelism, but here past tenses are used to describe future events;
the results of the coming of the Messiah are stated as though already achieved. In contrast
with the blessedness of those that fear the Lord, “the proud,” the rebellious, and unbelieving
are pictured as “scattered” like the hosts of a defeated army; the oppressed are exalted while
tyrants are dethroned; the hungry are filled and the rich are sent away “empty.” These results
are to be regarded as spiritual as well as physical. Such reversals are certain to occur where
Christ is accepted and those who receive blessings from him are the humble who are conscious
of their need.

The last strophe, vs. 54, 55, emphasizes the faithfulness of God to his ancient promises which
Mary sees fulfilled in the birth of her Son. In this saving help given to Israel, God is showing
that he has not forgotten the mercy “toward Abraham and his seed” promised to the “fathers”
of old. Only in Christ Jesus can be realized all the promises to Israel, all the hopes of the ages.

D. The Birth of John, and the “Benedictus.” Ch. 1:57-80

    57 Now Elisabeth’s time was fulfilled that she should be
    delivered; and she brought forth a son. 58 And her neighbors and
    her kinsfolk heard that the Lord had magnified his mercy towards
    her; and they rejoiced with her. And they marvelled all. 64 And
    his mouth was opened immediately, and his tongue loosed, and he
    spake, blessing God.

When the aged priest, Zacharias, had received from an angel the promise that he was to be given
a son who would be called John and who would be the herald of Christ, and when he had asked
for a sign to attest the truth of the prediction, he was smitten with dumbness as a rebuke
for his unbelief and as a stimulus for his faith. Even when at last the promise was fulfilled,
the sign was not removed and he was not able to speak until he had given a written expression
of his confidence in God. This interesting incident occurred on the eighth day after the birth
of John, when in the presence of their rejoicing friends the parents were about to name the
child. Many supposed that the name of the father would be selected. The mother, however, intimated
that the name might be “John.” When Zacharias, the father, was consulted, “he asked for a writing
tablet, and wrote, ... His name is John.” There was no hesitation, no uncertainty, no question
in his mind, for this name had been predicted by the angel, and Zacharias showed by his decision
and firmness that he believed absolutely in the fulfillment of all that the angel had promised
concerning the career of the son who was to be regarded by his fellow men as a gift of divine
grace and a prophet of divine appointment. It usually happens that a public confession of faith
results in new joy and in wider testimony. It was surely so in the case of Zacharias: “His
mouth was opened immediately, ... and he spake, blessing God.” His thanksgiving was voiced
in a hymn which, for hundreds of years, has been sung daily in Christian worship. It is indeed
a Christian hymn and a hymn of the nativity; for while its occasion was the birth of John,
only one stanza refers to that event; the whole burden of the thanksgiving refers to the approaching
birth of Jesus and to the salvation which he is to bring.

This hymn is named the Benedictus from the first word in the Latin version. It is an ecstatic
expression of gratitude to God for his boundless goodness. The poem possibly may be divided
into five stanzas of four lines each; but there is a definite pause after the third of these
stanzas when the thought turns from the work of Christ to the specific mission of John.

The first strophe, vs. 68, 69, speaks of the redemption of Israel as already accomplished in
the gift of the Christ who is about to be born and who is described as “a horn of salvation,”
that is, a manifestation of saving power. He is to appear as a son and heir of David the king.

The second stanza, or strophe, vs. 70-72, indicates that the salvation from all enemies is
in fulfillment of the promises made through the prophets and cherished by the ancient fathers
and embodied in the holy covenant made with Israel of old.

The third stanza, vs. 73-75, describes the nature of this salvation which was assured by the
oath to Abraham; it is to be such a deliverance from political oppression as to make possible
for Israel a true, priestly service of God, as a nation holy and righteous before him.

In the fourth stanza, vs. 76, 77, the singer turns to address his own son whose birth has given
occasion to the song. He declares that John is to be recognized as a prophet of God whose divine
mission will be to announce and to define the promised salvation as in its essence not a political
but a spiritual redemption consisting in the remission of sin. John was not to be a revolutionist
but a reformer. He was to call a nation to repentance that those who obeyed his message might
be ready to receive the salvation of Christ.

This mission of John is linked with that of Christ as the description of the latter reaches
its climax in the closing strophe. Vs. 78, 79. The source of all the blessings Christ will
bring is found in “the tender mercy of our God;” the essence is a visitation of “the dayspring
from on high,” when the Sun of righteousness arises upon the helpless, terrified wanderers
of the night who are seated “in darkness and the shadow of death;” the result will be “to guide
our feet into the way of peace.”

Such is the hymn of Zacharias, a hymn of faith, of hope, of gratitude, a song of the salvation
provided by the love of God in Jesus Christ our Lord.

E. The Birth of Jesus. Ch. 2:1-20

    1 Now it came to pass in those days, there went out a decree from
    Cæsar Augustus, that all the world should be enrolled. 2 This was
    the first enrolment made when Quirinius was governor of Syria. 3
    And all went to enrol themselves, every one to his own city. 6 And it came to pass, while they were there, the days were
    fulfilled that she should be delivered.

The story of the birth of Jesus as related by Matthew is in striking contrast with that of
Luke. Matthew depicts Jesus as a King and at his birth the reigning Herod trembles on his throne
and the Magi adore him, offering regal gifts. Luke represents Jesus as the ideal Man, and the
story is full of human interest. It describes two obscure peasants journeying from their northern
home in Nazareth to Bethlehem and there, excluded from the inn, placing in a manger their newborn
babe, while the first to visit them are humble shepherds from the neighboring plain. Human
interests, however, are not merely earthly interests; the story is vocal with heavenly melodies
and inwoven with messages of divine meaning and grace.

Only the most recent scholarship has vindicated the historic accuracy of Luke in connecting
the event with the decree of Augustus and with the enrollment under Quirinius. However, these
facts are mentioned by Luke not so much to fix the date of the birth of Christ as to explain
how this occurred in Bethlehem when the home of his parents was in Nazareth. Only a legal necessity
would have made them willing to take such a journey at such a time, but thus it appears that
the emperor of the world was concerned unconsciously in the fulfillment of divine prophecy
concerning the Saviour of the world. According to the imperial decree, Joseph left Nazareth
and with Mary, to whom according to Matthew he was not only “betrothed” but married, journeyed
to Bethlehem, five miles south of Jerusalem, to be enrolled in his ancestral city. There is
born their promised Son. Their exclusion from the inn was not due to any lack of hospitality;
much less did it express hostility to Jesus; it was due simply to the crowded condition of
the town. However, it is suggestive of the obscurity and discomfort and poverty of Joseph and Mary.

In view of his evident appreciation of the supreme importance of the birth of Jesus, the account
of Luke is almost startling in its brevity and simplicity. However, with consummate art, after
his own short statement of fact, he allows divine messengers to give the interpretation and
to express the significance of the event. These messengers were angels.

When the good news had been given, there suddenly swelled forth an angel chorus, singing that
great hymn of the nativity which, as subsequently expanded by Christian worshipers, is named
from its Latin version, the Gloria in Excelsis. As sung by the angels it is composed of two
verses, each containing three corresponding notes, “glory” and “peace,” “in the highest” (heaven)
and “on earth,” “God,” and “men.” This is a hymn of praise to God who in the gift of a Saviour
manifests in heaven his excellence and on earth reveals his grace to men, the recipients of
his favor. The result of this, however, is declared to be “peace;” in Christ alone can peace
be secured—peace with God, peace for the human heart, peace between men, peace for the world.

The astonished shepherds hastened to verify the good news and they became in a real sense the
first witnesses for Christ as “they made known concerning the saying which was spoken to them
about this child.” It is not strange that all who heard wondered, or that Mary treasured in
her heart the heavenly messages, or that the shepherds returned to their tasks with gratitude
and praise, for there lingered in their memories a song which expresses still the hope of all
mankind.

F. The Presentation of Jesus, and the “Nunc Dimittis.” Ch.

The incidents of the infancy of Jesus recorded by Luke not only add human interest to the story
but they interpret the future career and the saving work of our Lord. Thus when on the eighth
day he was named “Jesus,” a name often given to Jewish boys, it was because he was destined
to fulfill all that the name implies, for he was to be the “Salvation of the Lord.”

So, too, when five weeks later he was presented in the Temple, when his mother offered for
herself a sacrifice which indicated lack of wealth but not abject poverty, the real significance
of the scene is set forth in the prophetic utterances of the saintly Simeon and Anna. The first
of these utterances was the song of Simeon, called from the Latin form of its opening words
the Nunc Dimittis (“Now Lettest Thou Depart”). To this devout soul it had been revealed that
he should not die until he had seen the Messiah, “the Lord’s Christ.” Led by the Spirit to
the Temple while the parents of Jesus are there presenting their Son before the Lord, he took
the little babe in his arms and sang the sweetest and most solemn song of the nativity, which,
unlike the Magnificat or the Benedictus, promises redemption not only to Israel but to all
the world.

“Now lettest thou thy servant depart ... in peace;” the figure of speech is full of beauty;
it is the word of a faithful watchman who welcomes with joy the hour of his dismissal, for
he has caught the vision of the coming One; now he is about to be sent away in the peace of
an accomplished task, in the peace of fulfilled hope; for his eyes have seen the Saviour according
to the promise of the Lord. The redemption which the Messiah brings, as the song continues
to declare, is for all peoples; it is a light to reveal the way of salvation to the Gentiles;
it is to be the true glory of the favored people, Israel.

While this salvation is provided for all, it will not be accepted by all. To the wondering
mother, Simeon uttered a dark word of prophecy. The ministry of Jesus will be the occasion
for the fall and the rise of many. Their attitude toward him will be a revelation of character;
some will reject him and thus condemn themselves; some will speak against him, even though
he is the very token and instrument of divine salvation; this opposition will reach its climax
at the cross, when bitter anguish like a sword will pierce the soul of Mary. Jesus is to be
the touchstone of character; wherever he is known, by accepting or by rejecting him, men will
disclose their true nature; “the thoughts out of many hearts” will be “revealed.”

While Mary and Joseph were still wondering at these sublime words there appeared an aged prophetess
whose long years of widowhood had been spent in continual worship; she, too, praised God for
the salvation to be accomplished by the Child of Mary and she went forth to speak of him to
all who like her “were looking for the redemption of Jerusalem.”

Mary and Joseph, however, returned to their home in Nazareth where Jesus was to spend his infancy
and early childhood. During those years of obscurity his development was normal, but unique
in its symmetry and its perfection; he “grew, and waxed strong” in body, but there was just
as true a growth in mind and spirit; he was “filled with wisdom: and the grace of God was upon
him.” The Saviour of the world was to be the ideal Man.

G. The Boy Jesus At Jerusalem. Ch. 49
    And he said unto them, How is it that ye sought me? knew ye not
    that I must be in my Father’s house? 50 And they understood not
    the saying which he spake unto them.

It has been said that the boyhood of Jesus is like a walled garden from which we have been
given but a single flower, but this is so fragrant as to fill our hearts with a longing to
enter within the secret inclosure. We have but a single incident of his boyhood days; it is
recorded for us only by Luke, a visit to Jerusalem paid by Jesus when he was twelve years old.
At about this age a young Jew became a “son of the law” and began to observe its requirements,
among which were the pilgrimages to the holy city to observe the sacred feasts. On this first
visit to Jerusalem, Jesus was unintentionally left behind by his parents as they started on
their return journey to Nazareth. At the end of the first day they failed to find him in the
long caravan which was moving northward toward Galilee. The day following, Mary and Joseph
returned to Jerusalem, and on the third day they discovered Jesus in the Temple in the midst
of the teachers who were surprised at his knowledge of the sacred Scriptures. If they contained
a rebuke for Mary, it must have been conveyed in accents of reverence and affection; and was
there not involved a delicate compliment? Jesus does not reprove his parents for seeking him,
but for not seeking him in the Temple first of all; and does he not seem to have implied that
his parents had taught him to love the house of God and to delight in the law of God? He was
saying in effect: “Why thus did you seek me? Why did you not remember that the Temple is the
very place where I should be found?”

These words are thus a revelation of the life in the home at Nazareth. It was not by a miracle
or due to some divine attribute, but because of the training he had received from his pious
parents, that Jesus at the age of twelve was a master of the Scriptures, and had learned to
reverence and adore all that was related to them and to the worship of God. Is it not possible
for parents to-day to awaken in the hearts of their children a love for the house and the Word
and the will of God?

These words, further, were a revelation of the consciousness of divine sonship. Jesus already
realized that in a unique sense God was his own Father, the true source of his being. He instantly
corrected the words of Mary, “thy father,” which referred to Joseph, with his own words “my
Father,” which referred to God. Luke depicts Jesus as the ideal Man, but always as one conscious
that he was the Son of God.

Our children should learn to regard God as their Father, not in the unique sense employed by
Jesus as the eternal Son, nor yet in the sense which can apply to all created beings, but as
denoting that intimate relationship with God made possible for believers through Jesus Christ
our Lord.

Most important of all, these words are the revelation of a firm resolve, of a great molding
purpose; Jesus perceived that it was his duty to be in the house of his Father—not merely in
the literal Temple, but in the sphere of life and activity of which the Temple was the great
expression and symbol and sign. He had determined, that is, to devote all his thoughts and
energies and powers to the definite service of God. At the age of twelve are not most children
sufficiently mature to form a somewhat similar purpose and to recognize in the service of God
the supreme and comprehensive duty of every life?

With this definite ideal in mind Jesus returned to Nazareth and continued
to live in submission to his parents, toiling for eighteen years as a
carpenter and in the quiet retirement of an obscure village receiving a
training for his public career which would have been impossible amidst the
formalism and the distractions of Jerusalem. His development was as
natural as it was perfect; he “advanced in wisdom and stature, and in
favor with God and men;” his bodily and mental growth were no more marked
than his increasing charm and spiritual power. Such development is
possible in the humblest sphere for those whose lives are yielded to the
will of God. 12 And there came also publicans to be baptized,
    and they said unto him, Teacher, what must we do? 13 And he said
    unto them, Extort no more than that which is appointed you. 14 And
    soldiers also asked him, saying, And we, what must we do?

John the Baptist was the first inspired prophet to break the silence of the centuries which
had elapsed since the days of Malachi. The importance of his ministry is indicated by Luke
in the minute exactness with which he fixes its date. By naming the civil and religious rulers
he gives a sixfold designation of the time; then, too, it accords with the universal aspect
of his Gospel, and with the genius of Luke as a historian, to link his story with secular events.
Naturally he mentions first the reigning emperor, Tiberius Cæsar; he next names Pilate, the
governor of Judea who attained an immortality of shame for condemning Jesus to the cross; Herod
Antipas, a seducer and murderer, son of Herod the Great, is designated as ruler of Galilee;
Philip and Lysanias are said to be governing neighboring provinces; as ecclesiastical rulers,
Annas and Caiaphas are mentioned; while the former had been deposed some years before, he continued
to share with his son-in-law the actual duties of the high priesthood, and he also shared the
infamy in which their names are united. Such a list of leading spirits indicates the absolute
moral and religious degeneracy of the times and the need of some one to call Israel back to
the service and worship of God.

Such a messenger appeared in the person of John the Baptist who after his long discipline in
the wilderness came with a definite message from God and drew out great throngs to the Jordan
Valley to attend his preaching and to accept his baptism as a sign and seal of their repentance.
The nature of his ministry is declared to have been a fulfillment of the prediction of Isaiah
who described “one crying in the wilderness,” one sent of God to prepare the way for the coming
of Christ. This preparation is pictured in terms of Oriental imagery. When a monarch was about
to make a journey, a servant was sent before him to prepare the highway. Valleys needed to
be filled, hills lowered, crooked places made straight, rough ways made smooth. Thus, before
men would be ready to receive Christ, moral obstacles must be removed; men must repent of their
sins and turn from them. Luke closes his quotation from Isaiah with the line, “And all flesh
shall see the salvation of God,” which is in accord with the universal character of his Gospel.

The burden of the message preached by John was that which in all ages has awakened a response
in the hearts of men: he preached sin and judgment, repentance and pardon. The tone of his
message as recorded by Luke, however, was particularly severe; here he is said to have addressed
the multitudes as the “offspring of vipers” and to have asked them why they were pretending
to have heard a warning of wrath to come. The reason for such severity was that, while wishing
to escape the impending judgment, the people were unwilling to forsake their sins. They regarded
the baptism of John as a magical rite which could make impenitent men safe in the hour of judgment.
John bade them show their repentance by their works and not to trust in their descent from
Abraham as securing their salvation. He declared that judgment was upon them; the ax was already
lying at the root of the trees and every fruitless tree was about to be “hewn down, and cast
into the fire.”

To the question of the people John made it perfectly plain that by repentance he meant no mere
form or ceremony, nor was the word merely an abstract theological term; the thing he demanded
was plain and practical, that each man should turn from his besetting sin and should show love
to his fellow man. Clothing and food were to be given to those in need, for repentance meant
to turn from the sin of selfishness. Publicans or taxgatherers, who were everywhere detested
because of their dishonesty and greed, were told to demand no more tribute than was appointed
and lawful. Soldiers, or more exactly “men on military service,” possibly acting as local police,
were told to extort no money by violence and to seek for none by false charges, and to be content
with their wages. All who are to receive Christ in any age must turn from their sins. Repentance
is not a mystical experience; it is plain and simple and practical. It consists in turning
from greed and dishonesty and unkindness and violence and discontent, and from all that is
contrary to the revealed will of God.

The coming of Christ was very definitely predicted by John. While some imagined that the prophet
himself was the Messiah, John declared that the mission of Christ was so much greater than
his own that he would be unworthy as a slave, to loose the latchet of his shoes. While John
baptized with water, Christ would baptize with the Holy Spirit and with fire. Water was a material
element, and merely symbolized an inward change; Jesus would bring them into fellowship with
a divine Person, and would exert upon their souls cleansing and transforming power. He would
come, however, to punish the impenitent; he would separate the wheat from the chaff; the former
he would gather into his garner, but the chaff he would burn with unquenchable fire.

The close of the career of John is introduced by Luke at this point of his narrative to prepare
the way for his account of the ministry of Christ. It was actually some time after Jesus had
begun his work that Herod the tetrarch arrested John and cast him into prison because he had
rebuked the profligate king for his impurity and his sin. John had been a faithful messenger
of God, but the world does not reverence its prophets; they are usually imprisoned, beheaded,
burned, or crucified.

B. The Baptism Of Jesus. Ch.

Why did the ideal Man, the Son of God, submit to the baptism of John, a baptism of repentance?
Surely not to confess any sin of his own; but first of all to set his seal of approval upon
the work of John and to attest the message which declared that repentance and confession of
sin are absolutely necessary for all who are to share the salvation of Christ.

Then again by his baptism Jesus identified himself with his people, not as being sinful, but
as doing what they were commanded to do and as sympathizing with them in their hatred of sin,
in their distress for its burden, and in their hope and expectation of relief. Only those who
sympathize can serve and save.

Then again baptism indicated that the penitent had broken with the past to begin a life of
new holiness and obedience. So in his baptism Jesus was ending his quiet years of preparation
in Nazareth and was about to enter upon the ministry of service and sacrifice which was to
be performed in obedience to the will of his Father. It is for this reason that Luke, with
the art of a skilled historian, first completed the story of John, the great forerunner, before
mentioning that which in reality was the supreme incident in the career of John—his baptism
of Jesus. That incident introduced Jesus to his public ministry and that ministry was to form
the very substance of the gospel.

That the incident is merely introductory to his narrative, is evident also from the way in
which Luke records the baptism. He does not describe the event. He merely mentions it to designate
the time when Jesus saw the descending Spirit and heard the voice from heaven. The former was
a symbolic indication of the power by which the work of Jesus was to be performed; the latter
was a declaration that he was the Christ, upon whom rested the approval of God.

We are not to suppose that Jesus before had lacked the presence of the Holy Spirit, nor that
he now assumed any new relation to his Father, but, as in baptism he had yielded himself to
his appointed service, so now he was empowered for his task; as in humility he had identified
himself with the sons of men, so now he was assured anew that he was the Son of God; as he
had shown his sympathy with penitent sinners, he now was declared to be the sinless One in
whom God was well pleased.

Thus with the followers of Christ, while all enjoy the abiding presence of his Spirit, yet,
as they yield themselves anew to his service, they are filled anew with his power, they are
strengthened for their tasks, and are cheered by a new assurance of their sonship and their
acceptance with God. Luke alone mentions that this experience came when Jesus was in prayer.
He realized that it was a time of crisis. Prayer is usually the condition of those heavenly
visions and spiritual experiences which prepare us for our tasks in life.

C. The Genealogy Of Jesus. Ch.

The genealogy of Jesus given by Luke contains marked differences from that recorded by Matthew.
Possibly some of these differences can be explained and may be found of real significance.

1. First of all, the genealogy is found in a different part of the Gospel. In Matthew it opens
the story; in Luke it closes the third chapter. This is of course by no mere chance. The purpose
of Matthew is to prove that Jesus is the Christ, the Messiah, who, as the King of Israel, fulfills
all the Old Testament prophecies. It is of the utmost importance that Jesus should be shown
to be the Son of David and of Abraham and that the official genealogy containing this record
should open the story and even precede the account of the nativity.

Luke, however, has given the significant account of the birth and infancy and career of the
great forerunner, John, because of the light these throw upon the ministry of Christ. Therefore,
when the career of John has been related, when the ministry of Jesus is about to be recorded,
Luke gives his genealogy to emphasize the fact that the narrative concerning John has closed
and the story of the ministry of Jesus is about to begin. The genealogy is thus an artistic
interlude, or an important introduction. It suggests the real purpose of the writer and marks
the transition from the ministry which called men to repentance to the saving work which secures
salvation from sin. The gospel is not good advice but good news. We are not followers of John
but of Jesus.

2. Then again, the genealogy in Matthew follows the order of descent; Luke ascends the family
line from son to father. The former is the order of an official record; individuals are registered
only as they are born; the latter is that of a private document compiled from the public records
with a view to fixing the attention upon the particular person whose name stands at the head
of the list. This is quite in accord with the literary art of Luke, who desires at this point
in the narrative to center the thought upon the supreme importance of Jesus, the Saviour, of
whose redeeming work he is now to write.

3. In the third place, while the names given by Luke, from Abraham to David, correspond with
those given by Matthew, the names from David to Jesus differ. Some have attempted to explain
the differences on the ground that Matthew gives the genealogy of Joseph, while Luke gives
that of Mary. It is probably wiser to conclude that both give the genealogy of Joseph, but
Matthew traces the line of royal succession showing Jesus to be the heir of David; while Luke
gives the line of actual descent. This surely accords with the purpose of Matthew who ever
depicts Christ as the King, and also with the purpose of Luke who is painting for us Christ
as the true, the ideal Man.

4. Then, too, the genealogy in Matthew begins with Abraham, while Luke traces the line back
to Adam. The former proves Jesus to be a Jew, the true son of Abraham, in whom the covenant
was fulfilled. The latter reminds us that Jesus belongs to the whole human race. It makes us
look beyond all national lines and remember that this ideal Man on whom Luke is fixing our
thoughts is the Saviour of mankind.

5. When the genealogy closes with the statement that Adam was “the son of God,” it does indicate
that Jesus was reckoned as one in the great brotherhood of man, and like all his brothers,
owed his origin to God; but it does not mean to deny that he also sustained to God a relationship
that is absolutely unique. The genealogy opens with the statement that Jesus was the reputed
Son of Joseph; he was the legal heir of Joseph and so the promised Son of David because of
the marriage of Joseph to Mary; but he was not really the son of Joseph; he was the “only begotten
Son” of God.

D. The Temptation Of Jesus. Ch. And he did eat nothing in those days:
    and when they were completed, he hungered. 13 And when the devil had
    completed every temptation, he departed from him for a season.

The temptation of Jesus was the last step in the preparation for his public ministry, and for
many of his followers the final discipline for service consists in such a trial as results
in a new determination to live not for self but for God.

The time of the temptation was significant. It was just after Jesus had been filled with the
Holy Spirit and had been assured anew of his divine sonship. Under the influence of the Spirit
he was brought to the place of trial, and the temptation consisted, in large part, of the suggestion
to use for selfish ends the divine powers of which he was conscious, and to forget his filial
relation to his Father. While God never tempts us, in the sense of enticing us to sin, it does
seem to be a part of his gracious purpose to allow us to be tested; these experiences come
while we are guided by his Spirit, and the essence of these temptations usually consists in
some inclination to please self in forgetfulness of our true relation to God. The place of
temptation was the wilderness, and there is a sense in which the experience of moral struggle
is always one of intense loneliness. On the other hand, to live in a literal desert does not
free one from solicitation to sin. Wherever one may be, he can be certain of the presence and
sympathy of Christ; and victory is possible through faith in him. This seems to be the supreme
message of the story.

In both Matthew and Luke, three temptations are mentioned. They are probably intended to be
symbolic and inclusive; and under one or the other of these enticements to evil can be grouped
all the moral trials of mankind. It is to be noted, however, that the order of the temptations
given by Luke differs from that of Matthew. In both accounts the first temptation is to make
bread of stone; but Luke mentions as the second temptation that which is last in the account
of Matthew, the temptation which offered to Jesus all the kingdoms of the world. This was a
fitting climax to the testing of the King. Luke, however, mentions last the temptation of Jesus
to cast himself from the pinnacle of the Temple and thus to test God. It is the temptation
in the sphere of intellectual desire and comes in the subtle form of presumptuous trust. It
forms a true climax in the testing of the ideal Man. The order given by Matthew is suggested
by the apostle John who mentions “the lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes and the vainglory
of life.” The order of Luke takes us back to the story of Eden and to the first human sin,
which was due to a love for that which was “good for food” and “a delight to the eyes” and
“to be desired to make one wise.” As in Eden also, the first temptation is to doubt the goodness
of God, the second to doubt his power, and the third to distrust his wisdom. The victory of
Jesus, however, was secured by the triumph of his faith, and faith is still “the victory which
overcomes the world.”

The first temptation, then, was in the sphere of bodily appetite; Jesus was urged by Satan
to transform a stone into bread. Why not? His appetite was innocent; he possessed the ability
to gratify it. The sin, however, would lie in his using divine power to satisfy his human needs.
If this should have been his way of life, there would have been for him no hunger, no pain,
no sorrow, no cross. He would have defeated the very purpose for which he came into the world;
and anyone who makes the gratification of appetite his supreme purpose is wasting his life.
The essence of the temptation, however, was to doubt the goodness of God, as Jesus showed by
his reply, “Man shall not live by bread alone.” He was quoting from the Old Testament; he was
declaring that as by a miracle God preserved his people of old, so now he would sustain the
life of his Son. Jesus would not be driven into a panic of fear. He believed that God would
supply his need and that, however strong the demand of appetite might be, the way and the will
of God are certain to secure satisfaction and the truest enjoyment in life.

The second temptation was in the sphere of earthly ambition. It consisted in an offer of unlimited
human power. Satan would give to Jesus all the kingdoms of the world on the condition that
Jesus should bow down and worship him. The force of the temptation consisted in the fact that
Jesus expected some day to rule the world. The Tempter suggested that he himself possessed
such power, and that if Jesus would submit to him he would attain the desired goal of universal
rule. The Devil does not ask us to give up our purposes of ultimate helpfulness to others and
service to the world; he only asks us to compromise with the evil to attain our goal; he insists
that the end will justify the means; he intimates that in the world of commerce, or society,
or politics, evil methods are so much in vogue that success can be attained only by complicity
with evil. He tells us that this is his world and that we can rule only in so far as we make
terms with him. For Christ the issue was clearly drawn. It was submission to Satan or loyalty
to God. The latter would involve opposition to the ruler of this world and therefore would
mean conflict and toil and tears and a cross; but the ultimate issue would be universal rule.
The same choice opens for the followers of Christ. Unswerving loyalty is the way of the cross,
but this is the way of the crown.

The last temptation was in the sphere of intellectual curiosity. It suggested to Jesus that
he should see for himself what would be the experience of one who should cast himself from
a great height and then, by angel hands, be kept from harm. This is the temptation to place
oneself needlessly in a situation of moral peril and then to expect to be delivered by God’s
miraculous power. This is not faith, but presumption. Satan still seeks by this device to destroy
human souls. He urges men to see for themselves, to increase their knowledge by experiences
which needlessly endanger their credit, their health, and their honor, to place themselves
in moral peril, to live beyond their means, to undertake tasks beyond their strength. Jesus
replied, “Thou shalt not make trial of the Lord thy God.” In the path of actual duty one need
not fear the most threatening danger; but one who puts himself in unnecessary peril need not
expect divine help. In his own time and way, and in the path of our appointed service, God
will open our eyes and give us such knowledge as we need. To seek in presumption for such knowledge
while endangering our souls is to doubt the wisdom of God. Real trust preserves us from sinful
presumption.

The story closes with the statement that when Jesus had secured his
victory the Devil “departed from him for a season.” The life of faith is a
life of repeated moral conflicts, but victory is assured to those who
trust in the goodness and power and wisdom of God. 17 And there was delivered unto him the book
    of the prophet Isaiah. 23 And he said unto them,
    Doubtless ye will say unto me this parable, Physician, heal
    thyself: whatsoever we have heard done at Capernaum, do also here
    in thine own country. 24 And he said, Verily I say unto you, No
    prophet is acceptable in his own country. 30 But he passing through the midst of them went
    his way.

After his baptism and temptation Jesus remained for a time in Jerusalem and in Judea and then
returned to Galilee where he began that ministry to which Luke devotes the next six chapters
of his Gospel. Of this ministry he mentions three features: First, it was wrought in the power
of the Holy Spirit; secondly, its fame extended through the entire country; and thirdly, its
essence consisted in the most arresting and impressive public teaching.

The first recorded sermon of Jesus was preached in the synagogue at Nazareth, the town in which
he had spent his youth and early manhood. Luke places this sermon at the very opening of his
record of the public ministry of Jesus, probably because he regarded it as containing the program
of that ministry, or as forming the proclamation of the saving work of our Lord.

It was a Sabbath Day. The place of worship was crowded with the relatives and friends and townsmen
of Jesus. All were eager to hear one whom they knew so well, and who had attained so sudden
a renown. Either at his request, or providentially, Jesus was handed the book of Isaiah to
lead in the reading of the Scripture. He found the place in the prophecy where, in terms of
the joy of Jubilee, the writer is describing the gladness of those who are to return from their
long captivity in Babylon. When Jesus had finished the lesson he sat down, thereby taking the
attitude of a public teacher. As all gazed upon him intently, he undertook to show that the
prophecy was to be fulfilled by himself, claiming thereby to be the promised Messiah. The very
phrase with which the prophecy begins, “The Spirit of the Lord is upon me,” indicates, when
applied to himself, that he had been anointed, not with oil as a prophet or a priest or a king,
but with the Holy Spirit as the Anointed One, or the Christ of God. As such he was “to preach
good tidings to the poor,” that is, to those in spiritual as well as in physical poverty. He
was to proclaim deliverance for those enslaved by sin and to establish those principles which
will result in political freedom for mankind. He was “to set at liberty them that are bruised,”
that is, to remove the consequences and the cruelties of selfishness and of crime. He was to
proclaim the era of universal blessedness which will result from his perfected reign. Thus
in these words, which combine the figures of deliverance from captivity with those of the joy
of jubilee, Jesus expressed the gracious and beneficent character of his ministry.

His auditors listened in amazement, unable to resist the charm of his address or to deny the
fascinating beauty of his words, but unable also to admit his claim; they received his predictions
with stubborn unbelief. They expressed their incredulity and at the same time explained it
by their question, “Is not this Joseph’s son?” They were saying in effect: “Is not this man
our neighbor, the carpenter, with whom we have all been acquainted; do we not know him and
his family? Surely he cannot be the Messiah.”

The reply of Jesus was to the effect that their unwillingness to accept him was due in part
to the fact that he had not wrought in their presence the miracles which marked his ministry
in other places. This is what he meant by quoting the proverb, “Physician, heal thyself,” that
is, “Establish your claim here as you have done elsewhere, if you expect to be received as
the Christ.” Jesus also quoted another proverb to explain more fully their jealous doubts:
“No prophet is acceptable in his own country.” Those most familiar with great men usually are
least able to appreciate their greatness; “Familiarity breeds contempt,” because men are so
apt to judge one another by false standards and by that which is accidental and external and
because so frequently men do not know those whom they think they know the best. This same stupid
lack of appreciation shadows human lives to-day, and makes us fail to realize the worth of
our friends and the value of our opportunities, until it is too late. It even has its tragic
bearing upon the present ministry of Christ; some reject him for reasons altogether superficial
and foolish, thinking that they know him perfectly because they long have been familiar with
his name, while in reality they fail to understand the real beauty of his person and the transforming
power of his grace.

The unbelief of his auditors was turned to mad hatred as Jesus gave two examples from Old Testament
history, both of which indicated that his townsmen, who knew him best, were less worthy of
his saving ministry than even men of heathen nations. He even compared himself with Elijah
and Elisha and indicated that as the former brought a great blessing to one who lived in Sidon
and the latter to a prince in Syria, while the people in Israel were suffering for their unbelief,
so the nations of the world would accept the blessed salvation of Christ while those who knew
him best would suffer for their unbelief. So maddened were his hearers by this severe rebuke
that they drove him from the city and tried to take his life, but he, with majestic calm and
divine strength, “passing through the midst of them went his way.”

It is still true that those who have enjoyed the best opportunities for knowing Christ often
reject him; but, where faith is present, broken hearts are healed as by Elijah of old and lepers
are cleansed as was Naaman by the word of Elisha. Thus in this scene in the synagogue of Nazareth,
Jesus indicated not only the grace of his ministry but its universal power. He came to relieve
all the needs of mankind and in all the world.

2. Jesus Performing Miracles at Capernaum. Ch. And when the demon
    had thrown him down in the midst, he came out of him, having done
    him no hurt.

    38 And he rose up from the synagogue, and entered into the house
    of Simon. And Simon’s wife’s mother was holden with a great fever;
    and they besought him for her. And
    rebuking them, he suffered them not to speak, because they knew
    that he was the Christ.

    42 And when it was day, he came out and went into a desert place:
    and the multitudes sought after him, and came unto him, and would
    have stayed him, that he should not go from them. 43 But he said
    unto them, I must preach the good tidings of the kingdom of God to
    the other cities also: for therefore was I sent.

    44 And he was preaching in the synagogues of Galilee.

The Sabbath at Nazareth is placed by Luke in sudden contrast with a Sabbath passed at Capernaum.
On the former, as the story opens, Jesus was surrounded by his friends and townsmen; as it
closes, they had turned into a fierce mob which was seeking his death. In the latter, as the
scene opens, Jesus was faced by a demon; but as it closes, he was surrounded by an admiring
throng who were eager to have him remain in their midst.

Jesus was again in a synagogue, and was awakening surprise by the character of his message.
Unlike the teachers of his day, he spoke with authority instead of quoting reputed “authorities”
as he unfolded the Scriptures. Suddenly the service was interrupted by the cries of a man who
was possessed by an unclean spirit. Jesus rebuked the demon and compelled him to come out of
the man. There can be little doubt that the evil spirit which Jesus thus controlled was an
actual malign being who controlled the poor sufferer whom Jesus graciously relieved; yet such
an “unclean spirit” is a type of the demoniac power of envy and of lust and of anger, and of
the whole host of debasing passions from which Christ alone can give relief.

The second scene of this memorable Sabbath is in the home of Simon Peter; here by a single
word Jesus relieved a poor sufferer from a severe fever. The cure was so instantaneous that
the woman who had been sick immediately “rose up and ministered unto them.” It is probably
true that in many homes there are those, not afflicted by the power of evil passions, who nevertheless
are suffering from worry and anxiety and fretfulness and unrest and so are unable to render
to others the gracious service which they might perform if they could but hear the quieting
word of Christ and feel the soothing power of his touch.

The third scene is of peculiar beauty. When the sun had set a great multitude gathered around
the home of Peter, attracted by the report of the miracle wrought in the synagogue. They brought
with them great numbers of those who were sick or possessed by demons and Jesus healed them
all. This is a picture which in reality is being reproduced to-day. Amid the shadows and mysteries
of suffering and pain the Saviour is standing; about him are gathered those whom sin has stricken
with its disease, the sad, the loveless, the lonely, the tempted, the hopeless, the lost. His
touch “has still its ancient power.” In his mercy he is healing them all, and in joy they are
going away.

The last scene of this group is at dawn the next morning. Jesus had
withdrawn to “a desert place,” but the eager multitudes had found him and
were beseeching him not to go from them. He reminded them, however, of the
other cities which needed to hear “the good tidings of the kingdom of
God.” Have all of us who have felt the healing touch of Christ something
of his sympathy for those who have not yet heard the good news of his
grace? 4 And when he had left speaking, he
    said unto Simon, Put out into the deep, and let down your nets for
    a draught. 5 And Simon answered and said, Master, we toiled all
    night, and took nothing: but at thy word I will let down the nets.
    11 And when they had brought their boats to land, they left all,
    and followed him.

The call of his first disciples is regarded by many as opening a new period in the public ministry
of Jesus. His work was now to assume a more permanent form. The growing popularity of his preaching
indicated that the gospel was designed for the whole world. For such a proclamation a definite
group of workers must be prepared. The growth of Christianity ever depends upon securing men
who will publicly confess and follow Christ.

The scene of this call is described as being “by the lake of Gennesaret.” This charming sheet
of water brings to mind so many scenes in the life of our Lord that it has been termed a “Fifth
Gospel.” On its western and northern side were the cities in which most of his work was done;
the eastern shores were not inhabited and thither Jesus would resort for rest.

Those whom Jesus called were fishermen, sturdy, independent, fearless. They were not strangers
to Jesus nor had they been indifferent to spiritual truths. They had attended the preaching
of the Baptist and had come to regard Jesus as the Messiah, but they were now called to leave
their homes and their tasks and to become his constant companions and disciples.

On this occasion Jesus had borrowed the boat belonging to one of his friends to use as a pulpit
and from this he had addressed the crowds. When he had finished his discourse, he gave to the
four men he was about to call an impressive object lesson of the character of the work and
of the great success which would attend their ministry if they would forsake all and follow
him. He wrought a miracle especially impressive because it was in the sphere of their daily
calling at a time and place where they were sure it was useless to fish. They were enabled
by the guidance of Jesus to take such a draft of fishes that their nets were strained and their
boats so loaded as nearly to sink. It was so plainly a manifestation of supernatural power
that Peter felt himself to be in the presence of a divine Being and expressed the fear which
all have felt when face to face with God. Jesus spoke the word which not only removed the terror
of Peter but gave to him and his companions courage for all the coming years, “Fear not; from
henceforth thou shalt catch men.”

So to-day Jesus is calling men to become his disciples. Obedience may involve sacrifice, but
it is certain to result in the saving of human souls.

2. Jesus Cleansing a Leper. Ch. 14 And he charged him to tell no man: but go
    thy way, and show thyself to the priest, and offer for thy
    cleansing, according as Moses commanded, for testimony unto them.

Leprosy was regarded as the most loathsome and terrible of diseases. It existed in various
forms but its invariable feature was its foul uncleanness. The leper was an outcast; he was
compelled to live apart from the dwellings of men. He was required to wear a covering over
his mouth and to give warning of his approach by crying, “Unclean! Unclean!” His case was regarded
as hopeless; he was reckoned as dead. Loathsome, insidious, corrupting, pervasive, isolating,
ceremonially and physically defiling, surely leprosy is a fitting emblem of sin; and this graphic
narrative presents a parable of the power of Christ to cleanse and to heal and to restore.
It is a vivid picture which Luke draws; the humble trust of the poor sufferer, his pitiful
cry, the sympathetic touch of Jesus, the word of command and the instant cure. While Jesus
forbade the man to arouse excitement by telling of his healing, he commanded him to report
his case to the priest, that the highest religious authorities might have unanswerable testimony
to the divine power of Christ, and also that the man might bring the offerings required by
the Law and thus express his gratitude to God. Our Master does expect all who have felt his
healing touch to testify of his grace and to show their gratitude by offering to him the service
of their lives.

Such miracles could not be hid. The crowds so pressed upon Jesus that he was forced to withdraw
to the desert for rest; and as the scene closed he who had startled the multitude by the manifestation
of his divine power was left alone seeking help from God in prayer.

3. Jesus Forgiving Sins. Ch.

Leprosy was the symbol of the uncleanness of sin; paralysis of its impotence and pain. On the
occasion of healing a paralytic, Jesus, however, did something more startling: he forgave sin.
The poor sufferer had been borne by his four friends who were discouraged by no obstacles.
When they were unable to enter the house where Jesus was, because of the multitudes which surrounded
it, they went to the roof and let the sick man down through the tiles into the very presence
of Christ. Their earnestness is a rebuke to us who make so little effort to bring our comrades
within the healing influence of our Lord.

Jesus recognized the faith both of the man and of his friends and responded with an utterance
which occasioned his hearers more surprise than had the opening of the roof, “Man, thy sins
are forgiven thee.” No request had been made for such forgiveness, but Jesus read the heart.
He saw the yearning of the sufferer for healing not only of his body but of his soul. He recognized
his sorrow for the sin which had caused the sickness, and the anguish of remorse and immediately
he spoke the word of pardon and of peace. Thus Jesus voiced the message which the world seems
reluctant to accept. He declared that physical ills and social evils are less serious than
the moral and spiritual maladies of which they are the symptoms and the results; and further,
he expressed his claim of divine power to pronounce pardon and to remove guilt.

This claim at once aroused the bitter resentment of the scribes and Pharisees who were present
and they began to reason: “Who is this that speaketh blasphemies? Who can forgive sins, but
God alone?” Their reasoning was correct. Jesus was a blasphemer worthy of death, or else he
was divine.

To prove his deity Jesus proposed an immediate test: “Which is easier, to say, Thy sins are
forgiven thee; or to say, Arise and walk?” Of course neither is easier; either requires divine
power. Therefore, when at the word of Jesus the man arose and started for his home, “glorifying
God,” it is not strange that “amazement took hold on all, and they glorified God.”

Thus the miracles of Christ were real proofs of his deity as well as expressions of his love;
they were moreover parables of his ability and willingness to deliver man from the guilt and
power of sin.

4. The Call of Levi. Ch. 5:27-32

    27 And after these things he went forth, and beheld a publican,
    named Levi, sitting at the place of toll, and said unto him,
    Follow me. 30 And the Pharisees and their scribes murmured
    against his disciples, saying, Why do ye eat and drink with the
    publicans and sinners?

Nothing could further emphasize the sympathy of Jesus than his calling a publican to be his
close companion and friend. These taxgatherers were everywhere despised for their dishonesty,
extortion, and greed; but Jesus chose one of them named Levi, or Matthew, and transformed him
into an apostle, an evangelist, and a saint.

There must have been something admirable in the character of the man; at least there was something
inspiring in his example, for as soon as he heard the clear call of the Master, “He forsook
all, and rose up and followed him.”

Probably he had more to leave than any of the twelve men who became apostles of Christ. He
must have been possessed of wealth. At least, as soon as he was converted, he made “a great
feast in his house” and invited “a great multitude of publicans and of others” to be his guests.
He had the courage of his convictions; he was not ashamed of his new Master. He was eager to
have his old friends introduced to Christ.

It was on the occasion of this feast that Jesus was criticized by the Pharisees for eating
and drinking with publicans and sinners. A physician enters a sick room, not because he delights
in disease or rejoices in suffering, but because he desires to cure and to relieve; so Jesus
companied with sinners not because he countenanced sin or enjoyed the society of the depraved,
but because, as a healer of souls, he was willing to go where he was most needed and to work
where the ravages of sin were most severe. He came into the world to save sinners. Their conduct
distressed him, their sins pained him; but to accomplish his task he sought them out and showed
his sympathy by his presence and by his healing power.

Are there any who do not need the spiritual cure he can effect? Are any “sound;” are some not
“sinners”? These questions each must answer for himself. Probably those who like the Pharisees
are least conscious of their sickness are in most desperate danger. Then again, are those who
know his power willing like the Master to go with his gospel to the places of greatest need?

5. The Question of Fasting. Ch. 5:33-39

    33 And they said unto him, The disciples of John fast often, and
    make supplications; likewise also the disciples of the
    Pharisees; but thine eat and drink. 36 And he spake also a parable unto them: No man
    rendeth a piece from a new garment and putteth it upon an old
    garment; else he will rend the new, and also the piece from the
    new will not agree with the old. 38 But new wine
    must be put into fresh wine-skins. 39 And no man having drunk old
    wine desireth new; for he saith, The old is good.

The Pharisees were disturbed by the attitude of Jesus toward sinners. Much more were they distressed
by his attitude toward the forms and ceremonies which to their mind constituted the very essence
of religion. This attitude had been expressed by the failure of Jesus to require his disciples
to observe the fasts which had become so prominent in the system of legalism taught by the
religious leaders of the Jews. The Law of Moses prescribed no fasts. How absurd then would
it be for Jesus’ followers to fast while the heavenly Bridegroom was with them! They might
express their distress thus when he should be taken away. Thus Jesus declared that fasting,
like all religious rites, may be quite fitting if it is a true expression of religious feeling,
but if it is a matter of form, of rule, or requirement, if it is regarded as a ground of merit,
it is an absurdity and an impertinence.

Jesus added a parable which further indicates his attitude toward all the rites and ceremonies
in which the Pharisees took such delight. He declared that he had not come to regulate the
fasts and feasts or to amend the Jewish ritual. That would be like sewing a new patch on an
old garment. This religion of ceremonies had served its purpose. Jesus had come with something,
new and better. The life of freedom and of joy which he was imparting could not be bound up
in the narrow forms and rites of Judaism. New wine could not be kept in old wine skins.

Christianity cannot be comprehended by any system of rites and ceremonies. It must not be interpreted
as a set of rules and requirements; it must not be confused with any ritual. It controls men,
not by rules, but by motives. Its symbol is not a fast but a feast, for its pervasive spirit
is joy.

As reported by Luke, Jesus added a characteristic phrase indicating his tender sympathy, “And
no man having drunk old wine desireth new; for he saith, The old is good.” Those who long have
been accustomed to a religion of forms find it difficult to be satisfied with the religion
of faith. We must be patient with them. It is not easy for them to give up the practices of
childhood and it takes time for them to learn the gladness and the freedom of spiritual maturity
offered to the followers of Christ.

6. The Sabbath Controversy. Ch. 5 And he said unto
    them, The Son of man is lord of the sabbath. 8 But he knew their thoughts; and he said to
    the man that had his hand withered, Rise up, and stand forth in
    the midst. 10 And he looked round
    about on them all, and said unto him, Stretch forth thy hand. And
    he did so: and his hand was restored. 11 But they were filled with
    madness; and communed one with another what they might do to
    Jesus.

Jesus had aroused the anger of the Pharisees by his claim to forgive sins. He had further enraged
them by his treatment of sinners. But he brought their hatred to a climax of fury by his attitude
toward Sabbath observance. Henceforth they sought to destroy him.

The question of the Sabbath has never lost its interest. The followers of Christ need to stand
firmly by the principles set forth by their Lord. These principles are few but fundamental:
The Sabbath is a day designed for worship and for rest and is to be broken only by works of
necessity and of mercy.

The first of these exceptions to the required rest of the Sabbath Day was illustrated by the
case of the disciples who were accused by the Pharisees of breaking the Sabbath because as
they walked through the fields they picked the ripened ears and thus, according to the interpretation
of their enemies, were guilty of working on the Sabbath Day. Our Lord did not deny that the
Sabbath law had been broken. He merely referred his enemies to the case of David and his followers
who, forced by hunger, broke the Mosaic Law in entering the tabernacle and eating the “showbread.”
Jesus argued that, when necessary to relieve their hunger, his followers were also justified
in disregarding the law of rest.

An illustration of the second exception to the law of absolute cessation from labor was given
“on another sabbath” when in the synagogue Jesus healed a man whose right hand was “withered.”
The Pharisees regarded this action of Jesus as another breach of the law of rest. Jesus defended
his action on the ground that it was dictated by mercy and that work which secured relief from
suffering was allowable on the Sabbath Day. He replied to his enemies by a searching question,
assuming the principle that refraining from help is the same as inflicting harm. He declared,
however, that “the Son of man is lord of the sabbath,” by which he meant that as the representative
of men he had a right to interpret the Law for the highest good of man. He was justified in
relieving the Sabbath from the narrow and burdensome observances which had been bound upon
it by the Pharisees and to restore it to mankind as a glad day of rest and of refreshment and
of fellowship with God.

The choice of the twelve apostles marks a new and important period in the public ministry of
our Lord. The deep significance of the act is indicated by Luke in his statement that Jesus
passed the entire preceding night in prayer to God. One reason for his decision may have been
the mad hatred of the Pharisees whose anger had now reached a murderous height. To give more
assured permanence to his work Jesus saw the necessity of organizing his followers. He had
been surrounded by a multitude of disciples, some of whom were his constant companions, but
he now determined to appoint officers who would act as trained leaders, who would be his official
messengers accredited by miraculous powers.

In all four places in the New Testament where the names of these twelve apostles are found,
they are arranged in three invariable groups, possibly in accordance with their intimacy with
Jesus and their real service to him. In all ages there have been among his followers such concentric
circles, such inner groups, who have been blessed by peculiar intimacy with their Lord, not
due to his arbitrary choice, but to their peculiar capacities for love and obedience and faith.

The first six mentioned by Luke were men who under the influence of John the Baptist had become
the first followers of Christ. Other things being equal, those who have known Jesus longest
are able to serve him best.

The chief place in the first group is always assigned to Simon Peter, bold, impulsive, fickle,
but possessing the peculiar powers of leadership which qualified him for the place of primacy
among the apostles of our Lord.

With him Luke names his brother Andrew, probably a man of less ability and strength, but one
who will ever be remembered as having brought Peter into fellowship with Jesus. None can ever
tell what share in the reward of a more famous worker will be enjoyed by one more obscure to
whom the greater leader owes his Christian career.

The next to be mentioned are James and John, the “sons of thunder,” the courageous, loving,
faithful companions who with Peter form the inmost circle of the followers of Christ. James
was the first to suffer martyrdom for the sake of his Master, while John lingered longest of
all the apostolic band, testifying to the cause of him who had chosen John as his closest friend,
and for whose return John continued to watch and to wait.

Of the second four, the first to be mentioned are Philip and Bartholomew; the latter is supposed
to be the same as Nathanael, the Israelite without guile whom Philip won as a disciple for Christ.

The next were Matthew and Thomas. The former had been a despised publican, but his training
had prepared him to become a careful recorder of facts, so that after his intimate fellowship
with Christ he became one of his biographers and wrote that which is numbered as the first
of the Gospels. Thomas has won the reputation of being a doubting disciple. He was certainly
naturally despondent and incredulous. The fact, however, that such a man became convinced of
the resurrection of Christ so soon after the event is one of the most important testimonies
to the reality of the fundamental fact of our Christian faith.

As to the last group, we know nothing of James, the son of Alphæus, commonly called “James
the less” in contrast with James the brother of John; but it is surely a mistake to identify
him with James the brother of our Lord who became the head of the church in Jerusalem and wrote
the Epistle which bears his name. “Simon who was called the Zealot” was by this latter title
distinguished from Simon Peter. If this title is correctly interpreted, he had formerly belonged
to that fanatical party of Jews who were promoters and supporters of the revolt against Rome,
which finally resulted in the destruction of Jerusalem.

Judas, the son of James, is carefully distinguished in the narrative from the traitor whose
infamous name always comes last on the list of apostles and is never mentioned in Scripture
without some designation of disgrace and shame. Why he should have been chosen as a follower
of Christ no one can sufficiently explain, yet there must have been in him original elements
of good. There was surely the possibility of development into usefulness and sainthood, but
he tried to cherish the passion of greed while companying with Jesus, and the inevitable reaction
was so great and rapid that he soon degenerated into a thief and a traitor. His fate serves
as a warning to all the followers of Christ and his testimony to the character of Jesus has
been repeated through all the years, “I have ... betrayed innocent blood.”

All of the Twelve were men of modest means and humble stations in life; they were men of moderate
ability, and most of their names are still obscure; yet they were the first leaders and the
real organizers of the most important society the world has known, and their names are yet
to be graven on the foundations of the holy city, the light of which is to fill the earth with
glory.

2. The Great Sermon. Ch. 34 And if ye lend to them of whom ye hope to
    receive, what thank have ye? even sinners lend to sinners, to
    receive again as much. 35 But love your enemies, and do them
    good, and lend, never despairing; and your reward shall be great,
    and ye shall be sons of the Most High: for he is kind toward the
    unthankful and evil. 36 Be ye merciful, even as your Father is
    merciful. For with what measure ye mete it shall be
    measured to you again.

    39 And he spake also a parable unto them, Can the blind guide the
    blind? shall they not both fall into a pit? 40 The disciple is not
    above his teacher: but every one when he is perfected shall be as
    his teacher.

It might seem difficult to prove that the Sermon on the Mount is the same as this discourse
which has been called by some the Sermon on the Plain. The exact relation between the sermon
reported by Matthew and this great address recorded by Luke has long been a subject of debate.
It is quite probable, however, that they are identical. After Jesus had chosen the twelve apostles
on the summit of the mountain where he had spent the night, he descended to a level place on
the mountain side and there met the multitude and delivered the sermon which holds first place
among all the discourses in the world.

If this address is the same as the Sermon on the Mount, it is to be noted that each account
begins with beatitudes and closes with a warning, while the main body of the discourse differs
only in the aspect of truth emphasized by the two writers. In Matthew the essence of the Christian
life is described as true righteousness in distinction from the formalism of the Pharisees.
In Luke the essence of righteousness is found in love. Matthew was writing with Jewish Christians
in mind. The Gospel of Luke was for the world and many of his readers would not have appreciated
the distinction which Matthew was emphasizing. The word which would describe the sermon as
recorded by Matthew is spirituality, but the substance of the Christian life as here indicated
by Luke is charity.

The Beatitudes here recorded are four in number, while Matthew mentions eight or nine; but
Luke adds four woes, each one of which is in striking contrast with the parallel Beatitude,
vs. 20-26. The sermon begins, therefore, by pronouncing blessings upon the followers of Christ
and contrasted woes upon those who reject him. Those who are declared to be blessed are the
poor, the hungry, the mourners, and the despised; while woes are pronounced upon the rich,
the satisfied, the joyous, and the praised. It is, of course, understood that there are spiritual
implications in these different terms. Poverty, hunger, sorrow, reproach, have no merit in
themselves and issue in present and eternal blessedness only when accompanied by humility,
trust, and patience, and when endured for the sake of Christ. So, too, there is no wrong in
riches and satisfaction and laughter and praise unless these are accompanied by the selfishness
and greed and frivolity and unworthiness with which they are so often identified. By these
blessings and woes the Master indicated the real character as well as the abiding blessedness
of those who are his true disciples.

The burden of the discourse, vs. 27-45, sets forth the Christian life as being in essence a
life of love. This sermon on love might be accompanied properly by the “hymn of love” composed
by Paul, 1 Cor., ch. 13, and by the “Scripture lesson” on love written by John, 1 John 4:7-21.

First then, in place of all revenge, vs. 27-30, Jesus established the Golden Rule: “As ye would
that men should do to you, do ye also to them likewise.” V. 31. Then, in contrast with the
self-interest and desire for recompense which so often passes among men as charity, vs. 32-34,
he pointed to the perfect example of God and intimated that his mercy should incline us to
kindly judgments of our fellows, assuring us of the boundless liberality with which our Father
will reward our unselfish love. Vs. 35-38.

The second portion of the main discussion, vs. 39-45, dwells still more definitely upon the
fault of unkindly judgments to which Jesus had just referred and which constitutes such a common
infraction of the law of love. A man who is unkind in his criticisms and unconscious of his
own faults cannot help his fellow man; he is like a blind man trying to lead the blind, like
one in whose eye there is a beam trying to help one in whose eye there is a mote. As good fruit
is produced only by good trees, only out of hearts full of love can real helpfulness come.

To warn men against calling themselves Christians while they do not observe the law of love,
and to encourage his disciples in faithfully keeping his commandments, Jesus concluded this
sermon with the familiar figure of the two houses, founded one upon the sand and the other
upon the rock. Amid the storms and tempests and floods of the time of judgment, only the latter
will stand secure.

3. The Centurion of Capernaum. Ch. 8 For I also am a man set under
    authority, having under myself soldiers: and I say to this one,
    Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and he cometh; and to my
    servant, Do this, and he doeth it.

No more perfect picture of faith has been recorded than that in which Luke sketches the centurion
of Capernaum who sent to Jesus the request to heal a favorite servant then lying at the door
of death. This military commander, a heathen by birth, was evidently a man of the same high
character as is attributed in the New Testament to all soldiers of a similar rank. It may be
helpful to notice some features of his faith which was so great that our Lord “marvelled at
him.” First of all, the centurion was confident that Jesus could cure, because of what he had
heard concerning our Lord. This is the very essence of faith, namely belief founded upon evidence.
Faith is not credulity or fancy or caprice; it is a purely rational exercise of the mind; it
is reasoning from the reports of credible witnesses. The centurion had heard enough of the
power and goodness of Jesus to convince him of his ability to heal. Unbelief in the face of
evidence is stupidity or sin.

Again, the centurion revealed the sincerity of true faith. He had accepted light as far as
this had been revealed. He had been attracted by the pure worship of Judaism and had shown
his sympathy with its adherents by building for them a synagogue. When one lives in accordance
with the light he has, more light is sure to break.

Then again, he revealed the humility of faith. He regarded himself as unworthy to come into
the presence of Jesus to present his request; and when Jesus offered to come to his home, he
sent word that he was not worthy to have the Master come under his roof.

Most explicitly of all, he expressed the trust in Christ and the dependence upon his power
which characterize true faith. He said that it was unnecessary for Jesus to come to his house;
as a soldier and an officer he knew what could be accomplished by a word of command; he knew
what it was to obey and to be obeyed, and he had accredited to Jesus such control over the
unseen powers of disease that he sent his surprising message, “But say the word, and my servant
shall be healed.” It was just this aspect of his faith which so impressed our Lord, and it
is such humble trust that he still regards with favor and is certain to reward. It is not strange
that they “that were sent, returning to the house, found the servant whole,” or that Luke rejoiced
to tell this story which reveals belief in Christ on the part of one who was found outside
of Israel, a belief which was prophetic of the blessings which faith was to bring to men of
all the nations in the world.

4. Jesus Raising the Widow’s Son. Ch. 14 And he came nigh and touched the
    bier: and the bearers stood still. 17 And this report
    went forth concerning him in the whole of Judæa, and all the
    region round about.

If it was the purpose of Luke to impress upon his readers the sympathy and tenderness of the
Man Christ Jesus, it is easy to understand why he alone of all the evangelists records this
touching story of the raising from the dead of the son of the widow of Nain. No picture could
be more full of pity and compassion. Jesus had not been asked to perform the miracle; he was
moved wholly by the mute appeal of human sorrow and distress. As he drew near to the gate of
the little city, he met the sad procession wending its way out to the place of burial. He was
touched by the tears of the lonely mother who had lost her only son; moved with deep compassion
he spoke to her the word of hope, “Weep not.” Then he came near and touched the bier on which
the lifeless body was being borne. It was a sign more eloquent than a spoken word. These purposes
are real, but we must never forget that such works were also manifestations of the nature of
the ministry of Jesus and revelations of the very heart of God. Such recitals dry the tears
of mourners and bind up broken hearts and inspire the despondent with eternal hope. Surely
Jesus is the Lord of life and he will yet wipe away all tears from the eyes of those that trust
him.

5. Jesus Praising John. Ch. 23 And
    blessed is he, whosoever shall find no occasion of stumbling in
    me. 29 And all the people when they heard, and the
    publicans, justified God, being baptized with the baptism of John.

Due to the darkness of his dungeon or to the long delay of Jesus in fulfilling his cherished
hopes, the mind of John the Baptist became clouded with doubt and he sent messengers to Jesus
to ask whether or not he was really the Messiah whom John had declared him to be, “Art thou
he that cometh, or look we for another?” John had not lost faith in God or in his promises;
he believed that if Jesus were not the Messiah, the Messiah was still to come.

The Master lovingly reassured his great herald by sending back the report of the mighty works
which he was accomplishing. John was already familiar with these acts but the recital must
have dispelled his fears. Jesus sympathizes with us also in our hours of darkness, but his
relief usually consists in reminding us of facts we already know concerning his power and love
and presence and the truths of his written Word.

Jesus, however, does not praise us for our doubts; he sent to John a gentle and loving rebuke:
“And blessed is he, whosoever shall find no occasion of stumbling in me.” This benediction
he pronounces upon all who in spite of darkness, imprisonment, delay, and mystery still confidently
put their trust in him.

It was upon this occasion when John seems to have failed that Jesus pronounced upon him unparalleled
praise, declaring that “among them that are born of women there is none greater than John.”
He vindicated this deliberate judgment and thereby, showed wherein true greatness lies. He
spoke first of the character of John and then of his career. He praised the man and then the
messenger. He described his moral and then his official greatness.

His expression as to the character of John is voiced by two questions, to each of which a negative
answer of course must be given: first, “What went ye out into the wilderness to behold? a reed
shaken with the wind?” Surely true greatness does not lie in the moral cowardice which bends
before every breeze; quite on the contrary, John was like a rock which no storm could move.

Then there was a second question: “What went ye out to see? a man clothed in soft raiment?”
Surely greatness does not lie along the line of self-gratification and indulgence. John endured
all hardships and was oblivious to all human delights because he was so devoted to his divine
task. Courage and consecration—these constitute prime factors in moral greatness.

The real greatness of John consisted, however, in his mission. Jesus declared that he was the
messenger whom Malachi had predicted should prepare the way of the Lord. Other prophets had
appeared and had predicted the coming of the Messiah. It was given to John not only to declare
that the Christ would come, but to point to him and to say, “Behold, the Lamb of God! ... this
is the Son of God.” No greater dignity had ever been conferred upon a human soul; and no higher
privilege can now be enjoyed than that of turning the thoughts and hearts of men to Jesus Christ,
the Saviour of the world. The present followers of Christ have a larger knowledge of him than
was possessed by John. What their relative positions will be in the glory of the perfected
Kingdom will depend upon the comparative faithfulness with which they serve their Master.

The praise of John is sharply contrasted with the condemnation of the
Pharisees which Jesus now turned to express. He declared that these
professed leaders were like children sitting in the market place,
complaining one to another that they are willing to play neither at mock
funerals nor at mock weddings, for when John came they refused to follow
him because his aspect and message were too severe, and when Christ came
they criticized him as being too genial, “a friend of publicans and
sinners.” The trouble with the Pharisees was that they made an excuse of
the demeanor of John and the conduct of Jesus for refusing what was
essential in their mission and message. They were unwilling to repent at
the command of John or to put their trust in Christ in response to his
promise of grace and life. And he entered into the Pharisee’s house, and sat down to
    meat. 40 And
    Jesus answering said unto him, Simon, I have somewhat to say unto
    thee. And he saith, Teacher, say on. 41 A certain lender had two
    debtors: the one owed five hundred shillings, and the other fifty. And he said unto
    him, Thou hast rightly judged. 44 And turning to the woman, he
    said unto Simon, Seest thou this woman? I entered into thy house,
    thou gavest me no water for my feet: but she hath wetted my feet
    with her tears, and wiped them with her hair. 45 Thou gavest me no
    kiss: but she, since the time I came in, hath not ceased to kiss
    my feet. 46 My head with oil thou didst not anoint: but she hath
    anointed my feet with ointment. 47 Wherefore I say unto thee, Her
    sins, which are many, are forgiven; for she loved much: but to
    whom little is forgiven, the same loveth little. 48 And he said
    unto her, Thy sins are forgiven. 49 And they that sat at meat with
    him began to say within themselves, Who is this that even
    forgiveth sins? 50 And he said unto the woman, Thy faith hath
    saved thee; go in peace.

The Gospel of Luke appears to place special emphasis upon the grace and forgiveness manifested
by Jesus. It alone records his sympathy with the sorrowing widow of Nain, and it is also alone
in expressing the sympathy which Jesus felt for the sinful woman who anointed his feet in the
house of Simon, the Pharisee. It is a picture, however, not only of the loving mercy of our
Lord, but of the unbounded gratitude felt by one who truly appreciated the priceless gift of
his pardoning grace.

By an unfortunate error of interpretation this woman has been confused with Mary of Magdala
or with Mary of Bethany. These three persons should be, however, absolutely distinct. It is
true that Jesus delivered the first of these from demoniac possession, and that the second,
like the woman in this story, anointed his feet with perfume, but there is every reason for
believing that of the three only this woman was reputed to be a sinner. She seems to have met
Jesus on some previous occasion, to have repented of her sins, and to have received from the
Lord his word of forgiveness.

It was her gratitude which gave her courage to enter unbidden into the house of Simon, where
Jesus was being entertained as a guest. She had come to anoint his feet but as she beheld him,
she thought again of her sins and her hot tears of penitence fell upon the feet of her Lord.
She hastily unbound her hair and with it dried his feet and then poured upon them a flask of
fragrant ointment. No truer expression could have been given to her gratitude and passionate
devotion. The fact that Jesus allowed a woman of such notorious character to express her love
for him made Simon conclude that Jesus could not be a prophet, for otherwise he would have
been able to discern the nature of so depraved a woman.

By his reply Jesus showed his ability to read even the secret thoughts of his host. The words
of Jesus not only answered the silent criticism of Simon but also rebuked him for his own impenitence
and lack of faith. Jesus proposed to his host a parable of two forgiven debtors, illustrating
the fact that gratitude depends upon the realization of the amount which has been forgiven,
and then he applied this principle to Simon and to the woman whom Simon had been regarding
with scorn. Jesus showed how keenly he had felt the lack of love shown him by his host, and
he contrasted it with the affection shown by the woman. When he had entered the house Simon
had neglected the customary service of providing a bath for his feet; the woman had washed
his feet with her tears. Simon had withheld the kiss with which a host usually welcomed his
guests; the woman had passionately kissed his feet. Simon had not furnished the perfume with
which it was usual to anoint an honored guest; the woman had come to the house with the special
purpose of pouring fragrant oil upon the feet of her Lord.

In view of the parable the message of Jesus is plain, “Wherefore I say unto thee, Her sins,
which are many, are forgiven; for she loved much; but to whom little is forgiven, the same
loveth little.” Jesus did not mean to say that until now she had not been pardoned, nor yet
that her pardon was conditioned upon her love. He meant that her love resulted from her pardon,
and his words have been rightfully interpreted thus: “I say unto thee that her many sins are
forgiven, as thou mayest infer from this exhibition of her love.” The remainder of the sentence
was devoted to Simon, “To whom little is forgiven, the same loveth little.” The words do not
prove that Simon had been pardoned; they rather indicate that his lack of love had proved his
lack of penitence and so of forgiveness. Jesus then turned to the woman with a word of benediction:
“Thy sins are forgiven.” He thus assured her of the pardon previously granted, but still more
he vindicated her in the eyes of the guests and assured them of the new life upon which the
woman already had entered. They marveled as they heard him pronouncing pardon. That is a divine
function; but the ideal Man whose sympathy Luke records was likewise the Son of God. Last of
all, Jesus turned to the woman with the final word of blessing: “Thy faith hath saved thee;
go in peace.” This is a clear statement of the fact that faith had secured pardon and pardon
had awakened gratitude and gratitude had been expressed by a deed of devoted love. Such a penitent
can rightfully go away “into peace,” that is, to its present and continual enjoyment.

7. The Ministering Women. Ch.

Luke writes the Gospel of womanhood. He alone records those tender incidents in the lives of
Elisabeth, Mary, and Anna which are associated with the infancy of Jesus; he alone tells us
of the widow of Nain whose son Jesus restored to life; of the woman bowed down by Satan but
relieved by Jesus; of the penitent sinner who anointed his feet; of the domestic scene in the
home of Mary and Martha; of the woman who congratulated the mother of Jesus; and of the women
who condoled with him on his way to the cross. Perhaps most significant of all is the statement
of Luke that as Jesus and his apostles moved about Galilee preaching the gospel, they were
attended by a company of women “who ministered unto them of their substance.”

Among these women Luke mentions “Mary that was called Magdalene,” probably so designated from
the town of Magdala where formerly she had lived. By this title she was distinguished from
Mary the mother of Jesus, from Mary of Bethany, and from other women of this same name.

It is a cruel error to confuse her with the sinful woman of whom Luke has just been writing.
Mary had suffered from demon possession, as here stated, but there is nothing in the Gospels
to indicate that she had ever been a woman of notoriously evil life.

Luke also mentions Joanna, whose husband, Chuzas, had charge of the household and personal
estates of King Herod, evidently then a woman of some social standing; but of her and her companions
nothing further is known, excepting this important fact, that their motive in ministering to
the Master was that of gratitude; they “had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities.”

This statement by Luke is brief but illuminating. It throws light upon an interesting question
to which no other answer is given in the Gospels: How did Jesus and his followers secure financial
support during the years of his ministry? Evidently those who had received from him spiritual
help gladly supplied his temporal wants and rendered to him all needful service. Thus this
passage indicates not only what Jesus did for women, but what women did for him. It suggests
a question: Who can estimate how far the gifts and sacrifices of grateful women have been making
possible, through the passing ages, the preaching of the gospel in all the world?

8. The Parable of the Sower. Ch.

    11 Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God. 12 And
    those by the way side are they that have heard; then cometh the
    devil, and taketh away the word from their heart, that they may
    not believe and be saved. 13 And those on the rock are they who,
    when they have heard, receive the word with joy; and these have no
    root, who for a while believe, and in time of temptation fall
    away.

    16 And no man, when he hath lighted a lamp, covereth it with a
    vessel, or putteth it under a bed; but putteth it on a stand, that
    they that enter in may see the light.

Because of its greater length and more elaborate workmanship and greater fullness of detail,
this story of the sower is rightly regarded as the first parable of our Lord, even though he
had previously used brief illustrations which were designated by the same name. Parables henceforth
formed a prominent part of his teaching, and that he was now beginning a somewhat new method
of instruction is evident from the fact that the disciples now asked him to explain his meaning,
v. 9, and from the fact that he here gave the reason for the use of all his parables. This
reason is twofold: these inimitable illustrations would enable those who were attentive and
rightly disposed toward him to remember more easily the teachings of the Master; while to inattentive
or hostile minds the meaning would be veiled. V. 10. This twofold purpose met the demands of
the crisis which had arisen, due on the one hand to the increasing popularity of Jesus’ teachings
and on the other to the murderous hatred and dark plots of the Pharisees and scribes.

The parable of the Sower thus forms a proper introduction to all the parables for they are
vehicles of truth, and our Lord here made it clear that the effect of truth depends upon the
spiritual state of the hearers. This is sometimes called the parable of the Soils, for it illustrates
the various states of heart found among men to whom the Christian message comes.

In some cases “the word of God,” whether preached by Christ or by his followers, falls on hearts
which are pictured by the hard-trodden footpath which runs through the field of grain. No possible
impression can be made. The Word finds no entrance and Satan snatches it away as a bird picks
up the grain which falls by the wayside. Faith and salvation cannot result.

Other hearers are compared to the thin layer of earth which covers a ledge of stone. Seed which
falls into such soil springs up most quickly because warmed by the underlying rock; but as
the roots cannot strike downward, the grain soon withers beneath the scorching sun. So there
are hearers who receive with joy the message of life, but when subjected to the persecution
and trials which followers of Christ must endure, they quickly desert his cause.

Other hearers are compared to seed which falls where thorns are growing. This seed springs
into life but it has not room for development. It is robbed by the thorns of its needed nourishment.
Thus some Christians are so preoccupied by “cares and riches and pleasures” that they can bear
no spiritual fruit.

There are those, however, who are like seed which fell on “good ground” and “brought forth
fruit a hundredfold;” they receive the truth “in an honest and good heart” and patiently and
perseveringly they produce in their lives a golden harvest of grain.

The great message of the parable is summarized in the words of our Lord, “Take heed therefore
how ye hear.” V. 18. The purpose of his parables, as of all his teachings, was to give spiritual
light. Those who love him and obey his word will have their understanding quickened and their
knowledge increased; but one who is careless or disobedient to the truth, will lose “even that
which he thinketh he hath.” It is a great privilege to hear the gospel of Christ, but it involves
a great responsibility as well.

9. Kinship with Jesus. Ch.

It is only from the other Gospels that we learn the exact nature and purpose of the visit paid
to Jesus by his mother and brethren. Luke does not reveal the fact that it occasioned one of
the most delicate and difficult dilemmas by which our Lord was ever confronted. The real purpose
of these relatives was to interrupt his work. They feared that his mind was unbalanced and
they wished to take him home. Should Jesus repudiate them, or should he allow his work needlessly
to be interrupted? This situation Luke does not sketch, but he does state clearly the impressive
message which Jesus found occasion to deliver. When Jesus was told that these relatives desired
to see him, he pointed to his disciples with the reply, “My mother and my brethren are these
that hear the word of God, and do it.” Thus Luke connects this incident with the parable of
the Sower which he has just related. The parable shows the need of careful attention to the
gospel truth, and, according to Luke’s account of this incident, the same fact is emphasized,
namely, the blessed result of heeding the divine Word. According to the statement of Christ,
such obedience to him and such true discipleship as was shown by his followers results in a
relationship with him more intimate and close than is secured by any human ties. This spiritual
kinship is more vital than any relationship of blood or of nature. It results in a fellowship,
at once blessed and forever abiding, which is possible for all. The reply of our Lord could
not have offended his brethren even though it did contain a delicate rebuke. Only those have
a right to claim relationship with him who submit to him as their Lord and are ready to do
his will.

10. Jesus Stilling the Storm. Ch. 24 And they came to him, and awoke him, saying,
    Master, master, we perish.

Storms were common on the surface of the little lake which Jesus so often crossed with his
disciples; and storms are still frequent in the lives of his followers. To accompany the Master
does not exempt us from struggles and tempests, from dark skies and angry waves. This, however,
was no usual storm. Even the sturdy fishermen of Galilee, who were familiar with all the changeful
moods of that inland sea, were filled with terror. Jesus at the time was quietly resting and
had fallen asleep in what seemed to his followers to be an hour of greatest peril.

Their fear may have been foolish but it was wise in them to come to the Master in their moment
of pressing need. They awoke him with the cry, “Master, master, we perish.” The followers of
Christ are not saved from encountering storms but in the hour of peril they should be comforted
by his presence and they can ever turn to him for relief. Such a miracle must have strengthened
their faith but its first effect was to fill them with wonder and with awe. Every new manifestation
of his power came as a surprise to these disciples, and now for the first time they saw his
control over the blind forces of nature; thus once again they felt themselves in the presence
not only of a perfect Man—but of One who was divine.

11. A Demoniac Healed. Ch. 8:26-39

    26 And they arrived at the country of the Gerasenes, which is over
    against Galilee. I beseech
    thee, torment me not. 29 For he was commanding the unclean spirit
    to come out from the man. 30 And Jesus asked him, What is thy name? And he said,
    Legion; for many demons were entered into him. 31 And they
    entreated him that he would not command them to depart into the
    abyss. 32 Now there was there a herd of many swine feeding on the
    mountain: and they entreated him that he would give them leave to
    enter into them. And he gave them leave. 33 And the demons came
    out from the man, and entered into the swine: and the herd rushed
    down the steep into the lake, and were drowned. 34 And when they
    that fed them saw what had come to pass, they fled, and told it in
    the city and in the country. 35 And they went out to see what had
    come to pass; and they came to Jesus, and found the man, from whom
    the demons were gone out, sitting, clothed and in his right mind,
    at the feet of Jesus: and they were afraid. 36 And they that saw
    it told them how he that was possessed with demons was made whole.
    37 And all the people of the country of the Gerasenes round about
    asked him to depart from them; for they were holden with great
    fear: and he entered into a boat, and returned. 38 But the man
    from whom the demons were gone out prayed him that he might be
    with him: but he sent him away, saying, 39 Return to thy house,
    and declare how great things God hath done for thee. And he went
    his way, publishing throughout the whole city how great things
    Jesus had done for him.

The sufferings of a demoniac were so similar to those of mental disease that by many they are
regarded as identical. Those who observe the distinction are faced with a further problem as
to whether demon possession exists at the present day. What is most important of all is to
note the exact parallel existing between the demoniacs described in the New Testament and those
persons who at all times are tormented by envy and lust and anger and greed and other evil
passions which dominate the human soul.

On the eastern shore of the Lake of Gennesaret Jesus was encountered by a man whose suffering
and nakedness are types of the anguish and shamelessness of sin. He could not be controlled;
he was dwelling among the tombs, and these, too, are pictures of the helplessness and loneliness
and hopelessness which evil passions produce. Most of all it is interesting to note that while
the demon cried out in dread, the man drew near to Jesus, really hoping for help. The experience
was like that of those who suffer from mental disease where a dual consciousness is manifested.
Likewise most of us have experienced such a conflict of desires; we have longed for liberty
at the very moment when we have felt the controlling power of some passion. Some tell us that
we must cease to love the sin before Christ will give us help, but this picture sketched by
Luke gives a more hopeful message. It intimates that as we cry out for relief, or even before
we speak, Jesus sees the heart and recognizes the longing and assures release.

Jesus asked the sufferer for his name. He wished the real man to be awakened and to be conscious
of the distinction between himself and the evil spirit by which he was possessed. The reply
of the demoniac was full of pathos. He declared that his name was “Legion,” the reason assigned
being that “many demons were entered into him.” His case was particularly desperate; but the
evil spirits realized that they stood before One whose power was absolute. Certain that they
were to be expelled from the sufferer, they asked permission to enter into a herd of swine
which was feeding on the mountain side. A question has often been raised as to why Jesus granted
this request. Probably one reason was that the sight which followed assured the sufferer of
his cure; another may have been that the destruction of the herd would give to the men of the
region an arresting message both of their own peril and of the power of Christ. However, when
“They went out to see what had come to pass,” they were full of terror and they requested Jesus
to leave their land. They were evidently more concerned for the beasts which had been lost
than for the soul that had been saved, when they saw their countryman sitting clothed and in
his right mind as a disciple at the feet of Jesus. Their request was granted; our Lord never
continues the gracious manifestations of his presence when these are not desired. However,
he refused the request of the man whom he had healed. The latter wished to accompany Jesus
as he entered the boat to cross to the other side of the lake; but Jesus bade him to remain
as a witness for Christ in his own home and among his own people. It is ever the desire of
the Master that the testimony of those who have known his power should be given first to those
by whom they are best known.

12. The Daughter of Jairus and the Woman with an Issue of Blood. Ch. 46 But Jesus said, Some one did touch me; for I
    perceived that power had gone forth from me. 47 And when the woman
    saw that she was not hid, she came trembling, and falling down
    before him declared in the presence of all the people for what
    cause she touched him, and how she was healed immediately. 50 But Jesus hearing it, answered him, Fear not: only
    believe, and she shall be made whole. 51 And when he came to the
    house, he suffered not any man to enter in with him, save Peter,
    and John, and James, and the father of the maiden and her mother.
    52 And all were weeping, and bewailing her: but he said, Weep not;
    for she is not dead, but sleepeth. 53 And they laughed him to
    scorn, knowing that she was dead.

As Jesus returned to Capernaum after curing the demoniac across the lake, he was welcomed by
a great multitude in the midst of which were two sufferers for whom the Saviour showed his
sympathy as he perfected their faith and relieved their distress. They were strangely contrasted
in circumstances, alike only in their desperate need. One was Jairus, a man of prominence in
his community, “a ruler of the synagogue,” a person of comparative wealth and power and social
position, whose home for twelve years had been brightened by the presence of a little daughter,
an only child, who was now lying at the point of death.

The other was a woman, poor, weak, ceremonially unclean, friendless, who for twelve years had
been suffering from an incurable disease and who knew that by no human power could her life
be prolonged.

As Jesus was starting for the home of Jairus this woman came up behind him, touched the border
of his garment, and was instantly healed. Her faith was imperfect but it was real. She had
supposed the power of Christ to be merely magical and mechanical. Jesus showed that it is inseparable
from divine knowledge and love. He had felt the touch of her trembling finger. He had distinguished
it from the press of the jostling throng; and now for her own sake he required the woman “in
the presence of all the people” to acknowledge her cure. Jesus would have us know that faith
is a dependence upon his gracious person and purpose, and also that only after public confession
of our relation to him can we receive the assurance that we are saved and can hear his blessed
word, “Thy faith hath made thee whole; go in peace.”

The faith of Jairus was likewise imperfect. It was more intelligent than
the faith of the woman but it fell short of that revealed by the centurion
in the same city who felt it unnecessary for Jesus to come to his house
but only to speak a word and a cure would be effected. Nevertheless this
faith was genuine and so Jesus strengthened it and rewarded it. The very
fact that Jesus started toward his home was reassuring to the father, but
his faith was tested by the delay caused in curing the woman. However, it
was also strengthened by this proof of divine wisdom and power. Most
terribly was his faith tested by the message which then reached him, “Thy
daughter is dead; trouble not the Teacher.” Yet again, it was confirmed by
the word of Jesus, “Fear not: only believe, and she shall be made whole.”
As he entered the house, Jesus spoke another word which rebuked the
faithless mourners and cheered the agonized parents, “Weep not; for she is
not dead, but sleepeth.” He meant that in his presence and in virtue of
his power death loses its reality and is robbed of its victory. Nor has
the word lost its meaning and its comfort for the followers of Christ
during all the subsequent years. He took with him only
three disciples for he would not have the awakened child terrified by the
sight of more strangers. When the miracle had been performed he requested
that the little girl should be given food; this was for her own comfort
but also to break for the parents the spell of awe and terror which had
been cast upon them by the presence of death, and also as a proof not only
that life had returned but also that complete recovery from disease had
been secured. One other command is recorded, “He charged them to tell no
man what had been done.” The three disciples would be competent witnesses
of the miracle but a widespread report by the parents and their friends
might arouse such an outburst of excitement as to interrupt his work and
precipitate a crisis before the earthly ministry of our Lord was complete. 4
    And into whatsoever house ye enter, there abide, and thence
    depart.

As Jesus sent forth his twelve disciples on their first mission he was entering the closing
period of his ministry in Galilee. Until now the apostles had been his companions; henceforth
they were to be more strictly messengers and representatives. Jesus foresaw his approaching
rejection and death, but before leaving for Jerusalem and the cross he wished to offer himself
once more to the people of Galilee among whom he had long been laboring; and for this purpose
he sent out the Twelve. Their circumstances and the directions given them by Jesus were peculiar
to the time and occasion. However, these commands are not without application to the messengers
of the Master in all ages of the world. They were given “power and authority over all demons,
and to cure diseases.” Such miraculous gifts were limited to their own day and were designed
as credentials of their mission. It is true, however, that those who represent Christ must
ever be concerned for the mental and physical conditions of mankind, even though the great
purpose is to bring a message of spiritual import. The latter was, of course, the great purpose
of the apostles. They went forth “to preach the kingdom of God,” as well as “to heal the sick.”

When Christ commanded the disciples to take nothing for their journey, he did not intend to
impose needless hardships or even to suggest peculiar denial. He rather intimated the principle
that his heralds must not be encumbered with worldly cares and burdens and that those who proclaim
his gospel may expect to be supported by those to whom the message is preached.

In advising the disciples to remain in the first home where they were properly received, he
indicated the wisdom of having a fixed center for their work, of being content with their entertainment
and surroundings, and of avoiding social complications which might hinder their work. They
were instructed, in case they were not received and welcomed as the messengers of Christ, to
show their just displeasure as they departed from the place, by shaking off the dust from their
feet, an Oriental custom which in this case indicated the disavowal of any possible relationship
with the enemies of their Lord.

“And they departed, and went throughout the villages, preaching the gospel, and healing everywhere.”
These were the supreme representatives of the great band of heroes who have continued the work
and have made known their message in all times and lands. They were prepared by the divine
instruction of their Master. It has been said that there is something greater than preaching;
it is to prepare preachers. Surely none were ever so trained and none ever accomplished their
work so well; but it is possible for every follower of Christ to have some part in making known
the gospel of his grace.

The great success of the disciples and the tremendous excitement produced by their mission
is indicated by the fact that the reports of their work reached Herod the king and made him
tremble on his throne. It was not that he feared what Jesus might do; it was rather because
there was something in the rumor which awakened his sleeping conscience and filled him with
a secret alarm and dread. “It was said by some, that John was risen from the dead.” Herod had
beheaded John, but the memory of his foul deed could not be buried; now he was wondering what
might be the real nature of the miracles which were being reported and of the Man in whose
name they were wrought. He “sought to see” Jesus. That was mere curiosity. He probably wished
to see some miracles performed. Before long an opportunity was to be given him to stand face
to face with the divine Man, but it was to be on an unexpected occasion when the latter would
stand before him as a prisoner, when Herod might offer him protection or release; but when
the occasion came he was disappointed by the silence of the Lord and allowed him to go away
to crucifixion and death. One who beheaded John need not have hoped to understand Jesus. One
who violates his own conscience to-day and refuses solemn warnings to repent, need not expect
that Christ will be revealed to him in his beauty and grace and saving power.

2. The Five Thousand Fed. Ch. 9:10-17

    10 And the apostles, when they were returned, declared unto him
    what things they had done. 13 But he said unto them, Give ye them to
    eat. 15
    And they did so, and made them all sit down.

The feeding of the five thousand is the only miracle recorded by all four evangelists, in fact
the only incident of the Galilæan ministry of our Lord common to them all. Here this ministry
attains its climax. This was the hour of the greatest popularity of Jesus; the multitudes would
have offered him a crown, but he saw before him the shadow of the cross.

The Twelve had returned weary with labor but elated by success. Jesus desired for them a season
of retirement, of rest, and instruction. They withdrew to a secluded place beyond Bethsaida
on the east shore of the lake; but there they were discovered by the eager multitudes. Jesus
showed his infinite sympathy by cordially welcoming the crowds which had intruded upon his
privacy and interrupted his plans; he gladdened their hearts with the gospel message and healed
their diseases. And as the day declined he pitied their hunger and met their needs by miraculously
multiplying five loaves and two fishes which the disciples had secured.

For the disciples of to-day there are serious messages in this familiar story; perhaps none
is more obvious than that of the measureless compassion of Christ. With something of his sympathy
we should look upon the multitudes perishing for lack of physical and spiritual food. Their
call for help should not be regarded as an interruption but as a guide in shaping our personal
plans. While of ourselves we are unable to give relief, yet if our all is offered to the Master,
it will be multiplied marvelously by his divine power. The miracle seems to have been wrought
as Jesus looked up in prayer. We must surely look to him and seek his blessing in our service.
We must allow no broken fragments to be lost; some families could live on what other families
waste; then, too, the followers of Christ must learn a true economy of time and talents and
wealth if the Bread of life is to be brought to a famishing world.

The first clear prediction of his death was made by Jesus directly after he had heard the famous
confession of Peter. The latter was occasioned by a question Jesus himself had asked, “Who
do the multitudes say that I am?” The answer is exactly that given by multitudes in modern
days, “And they answering said, John the Baptist; but others say, Elijah; and others, that
one of the old prophets is risen again;” that is to say, a reformer, a great preacher, a messenger
of God. Such an estimate of himself never satisfied our Lord and so he asked pointedly: “But
who say ye that I am? And Peter answering said, The Christ of God.” This is the great affirmation
concerning Christ which the world to-day needs to hear; but at that time Jesus earnestly commanded
his disciples to “tell this to no man.” The message would then have been misunderstood and
the disciples themselves needed first to learn the truth concerning the death and resurrection
of Jesus. No man to-day is qualified to testify for Christ who does not know the meaning of
his atoning death and “the power of his resurrection.”

Then Jesus told his disciples of the absolute necessity of his approaching sufferings and assured
them that on the third day he would be raised up. This prediction of death must have astonished
the disciples; quite as surprising was the further statement that every follower of Christ
must likewise take up his cross daily, and the cross was not merely a symbol of suffering and
shame; it was the instrument of death. Every Christian, therefore, must die daily to self and
yield himself wholly to the service of Christ. Such self-denial and sacrifice and obedience
will result in the only experience worthy of the name “life;” to refuse is to forfeit “life;”
and the loss will be eternal for those who are ashamed to follow the Master now will be rejected
by him when he returns “in his own glory, and the glory of the Father, and of the holy angels.”
Of this future glory of the coming Christ, three of the disciples were to catch a foregleam
only eight days later on the Mount of Transfiguration, and Jesus therefore adds, “There are
some of them that stand here, who shall in no wise taste of death, till they see the kingdom
of God.”

4. The Transfiguration. Ch. 35 And a voice
    came out of the cloud, saying, This is my Son, my chosen: hear ye
    him. 36 And when the voice came, Jesus was found alone. And they
    held their peace, and told no man in those days any of the things
    which they had seen.

The transfiguration of Christ was closely associated with the predictions both of his death
and of his return in glory. It prepared him and also his disciples for the former and it was
a symbol and a foretaste of the latter. Just what the physical experience may have been, it
is difficult to conjecture. It was not like that of Moses on Mount Sinai when his face glowed
with reflected light. In the case of Jesus the glory was from within. A divine splendor shone
forth irradiating the body and even the garments of our Lord.

Luke tells us that this occurred as Jesus was praying; and it is more than a mere figure of
speech to say that when in prayer his followers find, in some measure, what it is to be transfigured
into his likeness from one degree of glory to another by the power of his indwelling Spirit.

Jesus had been accompanied on the mountain top by only Peter, James, and John; but suddenly
“There talked with him two men, who were Moses and Elijah; who appeared in glory, and spake
of his decease which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem.” This, then, was the high purpose
of the event; it was to interpret to the mind of Christ more perfectly the meaning of his death,
and to encourage him to endure its anguish by this glimpse of the glory that would follow.
It is easy to understand why Moses and Elijah should be selected for so august a conference.
One had been regarded as the symbol of law and the other of prophecy, and both law and prophecy
pointed forward to Calvary; and again both Moses and Elijah had received a special revelation
of the grace of God, and he was to manifest his grace supremely in the death of his Son.

It is not strange that Peter longed to linger in such heavenly companionship, and in bewilderment
absurdly proposed the erection on the mountain of three booths for the comfort of Jesus, Moses,
and Elijah. “While he said these things, there came a cloud, and overshadowed them: ... and
a voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is my Son, my chosen: hear ye him.” There was no
need of detaining Moses and Elijah; if the Master remained with his disciples, that was enough.
Henceforth all that the Law and the Prophets had foreshadowed would be completely revealed
and embodied in Jesus Christ. Part of that revelation was made in his death; the full revelation
will come when he returns in that glory of which the Mount of Transfiguration gave a foregleam.

5. The Demoniac Boy. Ch. 40
    And I besought thy disciples to cast it out; and they could not. 42 And as he was yet a coming, the demon dashed
    him down, and tare him grievously. 45
    But they understood not this saying, and it was concealed from
    them, that they should not perceive it; and they were afraid to
    ask him about this saying.

It is not strange that artists love to paint the contrast between the
picture of Jesus on the mountain encompassed by glory and of the demoniac
boy surrounded by the multitudes on the plain; yet it requires no canvas
or artificial color to heighten the contrast presented by the historian in
his simple story. Jesus long before had learned what it was to exchange
the glories of heaven for the shadows and sufferings of earth and the
compassion which drew him from the skies was never withheld, even at times
when he naturally might have been absorbed in thoughts concerning his
coming suffering and redeeming work. He was instantly moved with tender
pity as he heard the agonizing words of the father and saw the distress of
the son. However, he was even more moved by the unbelief and sin and
anguish and godlessness of the world which he had come to save, and of
which this scene was but a symbol and a picture. “O faithless and perverse
generation,” he cried, “how long shall I be with you, and bear with you?”
Can it not be said reverently that the contrasted experiences of the
mountain and the plain made Jesus for the moment homesick for heaven? Yet
Jesus neither hesitated nor delayed in the path of duty or in the presence
of human need. He told them that the time was near when he
was to be given up to suffer and to die; “But they understood not this
saying.” Here was a Man whose sympathy was tender toward all; but who
sympathized with him? How often some one of his followers has borne a
burden of hidden sorrow, even in the company of friends and when
surrounded by admiring throngs! 50 But Jesus said unto him, Forbid him not: for he that
    is not against you is for you.

This was no new dispute in which the followers of Jesus were engaged. The question was as to
which of them should be the greatest in his Kingdom. There was something admirable in the discussion,
for it revealed their faith. To them the Master was yet to be King of kings and Lord of lords,
and they desired to have places nearest to his throne. Our conception of his Kingdom may be
more correct, but if its glories were as real to us as they were to them, if we had faith enough
to see this Kingdom in its real importance, we, too, might at times question what our relative
places in this Kingdom are or will be.

However, Jesus rebuked them, for there is no place for pride among the followers of Christ.
Our nearness to him is not won by selfish effort or granted by arbitrary decree; it is conditioned
upon the humble service we may render in his name. “He took a little child, and set him by
his side;” not because a child is a picture of humility—most children are self-conscious and
absurdly proud—but because the care of a child is a symbol of humble service, and it was this
spirit which Jesus praised. To care for a child, or for men and women who like children are
in need of our help and sympathy and support, if done for the sake of Christ and in the name
of Christ, is a service rendered to the Master himself and not only to him but also to his
Father. The willingness to undertake such humble service is the measure of true greatness.

The mention of service in the mind of the Master reminded John of a recent incident which he
felt to be quite to his credit; so “John answered and said, Master, we saw one casting out
demons in thy name; and we forbade him, because he followeth not with us.” There was something
admirable in the spirit and action of John. He was so devoted to Christ that he wished everyone
professing his name to join the company of disciples, to live and to labor and to suffer with
them. There is always something admirable in loyalty to a denomination or a sect. If one has
found what he believes to be the highest form of Christian life and service, if one feels that
he is treading the surest and shortest road to heaven, it is certainly commendable in him to
wish others to share his peculiar blessedness.

Jesus, however, rebuked him, and said, “Forbid him not: for he that is not
against you is for you.” After all, there is no place for bigotry among
the followers of Christ. We may love and admire our sect or society, but
we are never to stop the work of a fellow Christian however much he may
differ from us. There are only two questions to ask: First, Is he casting
out demons? That is to say, is he really accomplishing good? Second, Is he
doing the work in the name of a divine, crucified, risen Christ? If so,
“Forbid him not.” We must not expect all Christians to repeat the same
creed or to enjoy the same ritual or to accept the same polity or to
employ the same methods of work. 55 But he turned,
    and rebuked them. 56 And they went to another village.

The record of the last journeys of our Lord toward Jerusalem forms a unique feature in the
Gospel of Luke. In the other Gospels some of these incidents are included but they occupy only
one or two chapters; here, however, they fill ten chapters with events most of which are no
where else related.

The direction of the journeying was first eastward through the borders of Galilee and Samaria,
then across the Jordan and then southward through the region of Perea. This region is not so
designated in the Bible but is described by the phrase, “beyond the Jordan,” and as most of
these incidents occurred there, this period of the life of Jesus is commonly called his “Perean
ministry.” Luke here emphasizes the divine prevision and at the same time the human courage
of our Lord. He indicates that Jesus saw plainly his coming death and also his glorious ascension,
but that he unfalteringly moved forward to the intervening agonies of the cross.

The first incident of these journeys was in a village of the Samaritans. Certain messengers
had gone before to prepare entertainment for the large company which followed Jesus, but the
Samaritans would not receive him; then his disciples, James and John, suggested that they should
“bid fire to come down from heaven and consume them.” There was something admirable in the
indignation of these disciples. The Samaritans were moved by a narrow and provincial prejudice
and they were offering to Jesus a gratuitous insult. It sometimes seems that the genius for
indignation has disappeared, and it is refreshing to see men who feel deeply any disrespect
to Christ, any injury to his cause.

But Jesus rebuked his disciples, “And they went to another village.” There may be place for
righteous indignation, but there is no place among the followers of Christ for anger, for intolerance,
or for revenge. This is not a time of judgment, but of grace. It is not for us to attempt to
administer vengeance, but to preach the gospel of love.

2. Jesus Rebuking Rashness, Insincerity, and Indecision. Ch. 61 And another also said, I will follow thee,
    Lord; but first suffer me to bid farewell to them that are at my
    house.

These three incidents show how carefully Jesus was sifting those who wished to become his followers
and how deeply he appreciated the fact that he was passing through this region for the last
time. The first of the three men with whom Jesus spoke was being swept along by his emotions,
by the sight of the crowd which was following the Master, and by the thought that it would
be a great privilege to be in such company. He had not for a moment realized that it might
involve sacrifice and pain to become a disciple of the Master. It was for this reason that
Jesus turned to him with a statement which implies a rebuke and suggests that the Master realized
the thoughtlessness and rashness which were prompting this professed follower. He would have
us count the cost.

In the case of the next man, when he was bidden to follow Christ, he offered an excuse, “Lord,
suffer me first to go and bury my father.” This was a natural request and it seemed that a
tender duty made it necessary for him to decline the invitation of the Master. If his reply
was sincere, it none the less merited a reproof, for a more sacred duty than caring for the
dead was laid upon him by the invitation of the living Christ. No tie, however tender, can
be regarded as a sufficient excuse for refusing to become a follower of Christ. Jesus was passing
that way for the last time. Prompt obedience was absolutely necessary. Those who were spiritually
“dead” and who had not heard the summons of the Master could provide the needed burial; but
it was possible for the one who had been called by Christ to perform a more sacred task: he
could begin to proclaim the gospel of salvation and of life.

In the case of the third possible disciple, there was no carelessness; he had counted the cost;
it was not his intention to make any excuse; he was sincere and definite in his intention,
but he wished to delay. He was not quite certain that it was best just then to leave his family
and his friends. At least he wished to delay long enough to return to his home and to bid them
farewell. He is self-condemned. There is no place for indecision among those who are to be
heirs of the Kingdom of God.

3. The Mission of the Seventy. Ch. 10:1-24

    1 Now after these things the Lord appointed seventy others, and
    sent them two and two before his face into every city and place,
    whither he himself was about to come. 4 Carry no purse, no wallet, no
    shoes; and salute no man on the way. Go not from house to house. 10 But into
    whatsoever city ye shall enter, and they receive you not, go out
    into the streets thereof and say, 11 Even the dust from your city,
    that cleaveth to our feet, we wipe off against you: nevertheless
    know this, that the kingdom of God is come nigh. 12 I say unto
    you, It shall be more tolerable in that day for Sodom, than for
    that city. 15 And thou, Capernaum,
    shalt thou be exalted unto heaven? thou shalt be brought down unto
    Hades. 16 He that heareth you heareth me; and he that rejecteth
    you rejecteth me; and he that rejecteth me rejecteth him that sent
    me. 18 And he said unto them,
    I beheld Satan fallen as lightning from heaven.

The sending out of the seventy messengers who were to prepare the way for the ministry of Jesus
is recorded by Luke alone. This is in harmony with the fact that only in this Gospel do we
read of the extended journeys toward Jerusalem made by our Lord on the occasion of which the
Seventy were sent forth. The work was for only a limited time and their office was temporary;
but in his instructions to them Jesus suggested many principles of life which apply to his
followers in all the ages. He first intimated the reason for their being chosen. It was because
the harvest field in which they were to work was so great and the laborers so few. He intimated
that before the world can receive the message which the Seventy were sent to deliver, they
and their successors must earnestly pray the Lord of the harvest to send forth more laborers
into the field. This is a prayer which all who serve the Master may offer earnestly and at
all times. The work seems to be only begun. Our sympathy with the Master will make us yearn
to see the work accomplished with more speed, which can only be possible when larger numbers
of laborers are secured. V. 2.

Jesus told his messengers that as they went forth they must expect to meet with dangers. “I
send you forth as lambs in the midst of wolves.” They were, however, to encumber themselves
with nothing superfluous and they were to waste no time in idle ceremonies; they must journey
as men who are impelled by one supreme motive. Vs. 3, 4.

As they entered a home they were to offer the peace which the gospel can give, but if rejected,
they were to believe that their very message would return to them with added force. Thus our
Lord signified that no word spoken for his sake is really wasted. Vs. 5, 6.

They were to continue in the home which received them, content with what was given, offering
relief to those in distress and using every opportunity to proclaim the message of grace. Vs. 7-9.

Where their message was refused, and they were not received by city or town, they were to turn
away, shaking off the dust of their feet, thus intimating by an Oriental symbol that they had
no connection with the enemies of Christ. At no time is the reception of the gospel message
universal. There are always some who refuse to accept its gracious offer. Vs. 10-12.

The thought of those who would surely reject his messengers reminded Jesus of the cities which
had already rejected him, and he paused for a moment to speak solemnly of their guilty unbelief.
He referred to Chorazin and Bethsaida, declaring that in the Day of Judgment it would be more
tolerable for Tyre and Sidon than for these cities, for even the heathen world would have repented
in the face of such evidence of his divine mission as Jesus had given to the cities of Israel.
He referred particularly to Capernaum, to its peculiar privileges and to its consequently greater
condemnation. Jesus was stating the abiding principle that unusual opportunities involve unusual
responsibilities. He emphasized the seriousness of rejecting his messengers by stating that
in despising them men are really despising himself and that those who reject Jesus are rejecting
his Father who sent him., vs. 13-16.

In order to complete the story of the Seventy, Luke proceeds at once to describe their return.
They came back elated, with the report that even the demons were subject to them. Our Lord
replied by a statement that in the overthrow of these messengers of Satan he saw the ultimate
defeat of the Prince of darkness and of all the forces of evil, and he declared that he was
giving to his messengers power over all that might oppose or might threaten to destroy them.
Yet, he added, their chief joy should not be in their ability to perform these works of wonder,
but rather in their having a part in his triumphant cause and in receiving his salvation. Vs.
17-20.

At this time our Lord himself shared in the exultation of his followers and returned thanks
to the Father for what he was accomplishing through the humble messengers whom Jesus had chosen,
so that the results were a manifestation of divine power. He added a striking claim which indicates
that the ideal Man is likewise the true Son of God who alone can reveal the Father to men.
Then lastly, as he turned to his disciples, he congratulated them upon their great privilege,
assuring them that “many prophets and kings” desired to see the things which they were seeing
as his servants and as the instruments of his power. He intimated something of the exalted
joy which through all the coming years his followers would feel as they realized their privilege
of serving such a Master, and of revealing him to men. Vs. 21-24.

4. The Good Samaritan. Ch. 32 And in
    like manner a Levite also, when he came to the place, and saw him,
    passed by on other side.

The parable of the Good Samaritan was spoken to a certain lawyer who, trusting to his knowledge
of the Old Testament, and of its subtle interpretations by the rabbis, came to Jesus hoping
to dispute with him and to defeat him in debate. He asked Jesus this question, “Teacher, what
shall I do to inherit eternal life?” He evidently thought that Jesus would prescribe some new
rites or ceremonies or would in some other way disparage the Law. He was startled, then, to
have Jesus reply, “What is written in the law?” This answer robbed the enemy of his own weapon.
He, however, made a skillful reply, and declared that the Law is summarized in the requirement
to love God and man. Jesus again replied, “Thou hast answered right: this do, and thou shalt
live.” There was no shadow of evasion or deception in the statement of Jesus. Perfect love
to God and to man is surely the way of life; but who can show such perfect love? Jesus came
not to destroy this requirement of the Law but to reveal its complete fulfillment, to secure
pardon for those who were guilty of its infraction, and to give power to those who felt their need.

The reply of Jesus not only defeated the lawyer; it smote his conscience. He realized that
he himself had never fulfilled the requirement of the Law he knew so well. He therefore attempted
to justify himself by limiting the sphere to which the law of love applies. This is always
the experience of those who seek to save themselves while rejecting the salvation of Christ.
No one in his own power can fulfill the demands of this perfect law; either we must secure
aid outside ourselves and trust in a loving Saviour, or else we must in some way lessen the
demands which the law makes. The lawyer suggested that it is impossible to love everyone, even
though it be required to love our neighbors, and to justify himself he asked the question,
“And who is my neighbor?” Jesus replied by the story of the man, evidently a Jew, who went
down the steep road from Jerusalem to Jericho and, as he passed through the narrow gorge, was
beset by robbers who stripped him of his garments and his possessions and left him half dead.
The first to approach this pitiful sufferer was a priest, a man whose profession and task in
life would induce him to perform a deed of mercy, but in fear of thieves or in blind oblivion
to the need of the wounded man, he passed by on the other side. Next came a Levite, one whose
office was that of a helper to the priests, a man who supposedly would be less burdened by
official duties and would have more time to extend relief; but he likewise passed by. At last
came a Samaritan, a man of an alien race and of a despised religion, but he showed compassion;
he bound up the wounds of the sufferer and placed him on his beast and brought him to an inn
and paid for his entertainment. He showed the spirit of love. Thus Jesus indicated that our
neighbor is not only one who “lives near” but one who needs our help, as well as one who helps
our need. He demonstrated the truth that the law of love is not limited by rank or station
or race or creed. Nor is it limited to man. One must likewise love God with all the heart,
and thus he will surely love and serve the Son in whom the love of God is made perfect.

5. Martha and Mary. Ch.

The unfailing human interest of Luke is nowhere more perfectly expressed than by this exquisite
scene in the home at Bethany. It is to be regretted that it has become the occasion for endless
debate as to the relative merits of Martha and Mary. Some imagine that the former was unloving
but energetic and efficient, and that the latter was affectionate, but sentimental and indolent.
In reality both sisters had admirable qualities; both loved the Master and longed to please
him; but on this occasion Martha, in her very eagerness to serve, had overburdened herself
in the preparation of an elaborate meal, while Mary, with truer intuition of what Jesus wished,
“sat at the Lord’s feet, and heard his word.” She knew that he desired, not for his own sake,
but for theirs, to reveal himself and to deliver his heavenly message, and thus according to
the fine art of hospitality, she considered first the wish of her guest and was thus doing
more to entertain the Master than was her sister.

“Martha was cumbered about much serving;” she was distracted by the many things she was trying
to do. It is possible for a follower of Christ to attempt too much; sometimes this is due to
a sense of self-importance and of pride.

6. Jesus’ Teaching Concerning Prayer. Ch. 2 And he said
    unto them, When ye pray, say, Father, Hallowed be thy name. Thy
    kingdom come.

When the disciples came to the Master with the request, “Lord, teach us to pray,” they had
already, for some time, been with Christ in the school of prayer, and they had been impressed
by that most valuable of object lessons, namely, the example of Christ himself. If in our minds
doubt ever arises as to the reality and efficacy of prayer, we need only turn to the Gospel
of Luke to be reminded that our Lord spent long hours in intercession and that he prayed at
every crisis in his life. Surely we shall not be misled if we follow in his steps!

What the disciples wished, however, was some special form or formula for prayer, such as John
the Baptist seems to have given his followers. Jesus replied by granting them a matchless model
and then by encouraging them in the assurance that prayer will surely be heard. This “Lord’s
Prayer,” more fully recorded by Matthew, was not intended as a form which must be used rigidly
on all occasions, but as a type which should mold all prayer, however free and varied and spontaneous
it may be.

The first word, “Father,” suggests the filial spirit in which all believers should draw near
to God, and it intimates much of the encouragement which Jesus gave his disciples in the verses
which immediately follow this prayer.

The prayer contains five petitions, two relating to the cause of God in the world, and three
to personal needs of the petitioners. The first is a request that the “name” of God, his revelation,
or our conception of God, be so reverenced, or so exalted, on earth as it is in heaven. The
second is a parallel request, namely, that his Kingdom may come. This Kingdom is to be external,
visible, glorious; it depends upon the inward transformation of individuals, but it will yet
appear in a perfected social order, and in the universal reign of Christ. The next petition
is for “bread sufficient for our needs,” and it implies our right to pray for all that concerns
our physical welfare. We are then taught to pray for pardon, as we come to God in a spirit
of forgiveness toward others; and lastly, to ask for continual protection from the snares of
the Adversary and from all the powers of evil.

To encourage his disciples in such petitions Jesus gave them the story of the man whose ceaseless,
almost shameless, asking secured for him the answer to his request for needed bread. Jesus
implied, however, that there is, on the part of God, no such reluctance to be overcome, so
that all who “ask” of him will receive what they need; if they “seek” relief he will grant
it, if they “knock,” even at “midnight,” he will open the door without delay.

Further still Jesus encouraged prayer by again reminding his hearers that
they were praying to a Father. Human parents reply to the requests of
their children, not by mocking them or with injurious gifts, not by giving
a stone when bread is asked, or a serpent for a fish, or a scorpion
instead of an egg. If then, with all our imperfections and limitations, we
know how to give good gifts to our children, much more can we expect our
heavenly Father to give his Holy Spirit, and so all other good if lesser
gifts, to them that ask him. Thus again we see that the blessed name of
“Father” is the key to the lesson. If we approach him as children it will
be with confidence, but also with submission, as we know that, whether he
gives or withholds, his reply will be an expression of infinite mercy and
of fatherly love. And it came to
    pass, when the demon was gone out, the dumb man spake; and the
    multitudes marvelled. 15 But some of them said, By Beelzebub the
    prince of the demons casteth he out demons. 18 And if Satan also is divided against himself, how
    shall his kingdom stand? because ye say that I cast out demons by
    Beelzebub. 23 He that is not with me is against me; and he that
    gathereth not with me scattereth. 24 The unclean spirit when he is
    gone out of the man, passeth through waterless places, seeking
    rest; and finding none, he saith, I will turn back unto my house
    whence I came out. 25 And when he is come, he findeth it swept and
    garnished.

    33 No man, when he hath lighted a lamp, putteth it in a cellar,
    neither under the bushel, but on the stand, that they which enter
    in may see the light. 35 Look
    therefore whether the light that is in thee be not darkness.

The first of these two discourses, vs. 14-26, was given by Jesus in reply to the charge that
he wrought his miracles by Satanic power, v. 15; the second, vs. 29-36, was an answer to the
demand that he should compel his enemies to believe in him by giving them “a sign from heaven,”
v. 16.

Jesus had just cast out a demon. His enemies did not attempt to deny that a miracle had been
performed; but, in order to discredit him with the people, they explained the miracle on the
ground that Jesus must be in league with the Devil. Vs. 17, 18. He then turned the charge against
themselves: some of their countrymen claimed the power to cast out demons; Jesus did not discuss
the reality of these reputed cures but pointedly asked by what power they were effected; is
it also demonic power? v. 19. Jesus then declared definitely that his miracles were being wrought
by divine power and that their character was a certain proof that he was representing not the
kingdom of the Devil but “the kingdom of God.” V. 20. Instead of aiding the Devil, he was despoiling
him. He described the Devil as though a strong man, fully armed and guarding his goods, but
Jesus himself was a “stronger than he,” and was taking away his armor and delivering his captives
by miracles of grace. Vs. 21, 22. In this conflict there can be no neutrality; one must be
on the side either of the Devil or of Christ. V. 23.

Jesus then rebuked his enemies by the parable of the Unclean Spirit. The demon of unbelief
had once possessed the Jews, and had been manifested in the form of idolatry; it had been cast
out, but it had returned with more terrible manifestations of hypocrisy, covetousness, hatred,
fanaticism, and pride. Such had been the fate of the nation; and such is the experience of
an individual who turns from sin and rebels against Satan but fails to accept the Lordship
of Christ. The empty heart is in peril. Reformation is not regeneration. One must beware of
the demon of unbelief. Vs. 24-26.

At this juncture a “woman out of the multitude” interrupted with an expression of congratulation
for the mother of Jesus. In reply Jesus intimated that his mother might rightly be called “blessed,”
but that the woman had missed the real point; it was a privilege to sustain to Christ such
a close human and natural relationship, but better far to possess that spiritual kinship which
is indicated by faith and by obedience to God. Vs. 27, 28.

Jesus continued to rebuke the unbelief of the Jews as he now turned to answer directly the
demand for “a sign from heaven.” He declared that such a sign would be given, in his resurrection
from the dead. This miracle would be wrought without any human intervention; it would be a
direct act of God and would fulfill the conditions of “a sign from heaven;” it would be the
counterpart of the miraculous deliverance of Jonah from the sea. However, the very demand for
such a sign was an impertinence and an insult; it reflected discredit upon the divine character
of the miracles which Jesus had already wrought. It failed to recognize the nature of his teachings,
which surpassed the wisdom of Solomon and the startling message of Jonah. The eagerness of
the heathen queen to hear, the willingness of the Ninevites to repent, rebuked the stubborn
unbelief of the Jews who refused to accept “a greater than Solomon,” “a greater than Jonah.”
Vs. 29-32.

Finally Jesus showed that their guilty unbelief was not due to lack of
evidence or to the need of a new “sign,” but to their indifference and
their impenitence. As a lamp is designed to light a house, and as the eye
is intended to illumine the body, so the soul which is right with God
possesses the faculty of spiritual sight. This sight is dimmed and
destroyed by sin. The inability of the Jews to believe was not due to lack
of “signs” and proofs, but to lack of sight. No amount of light will help
a blind man. Those who turn to Christ in repentance and faith and love
will find him to be the Light of the world, and their whole souls will
become radiant with divine splendor. 38 And when the Pharisee saw it, he
    marvelled that he had not first bathed himself before dinner. 40 Ye foolish ones, did not he
    that made the outside make the inside also? 43 Woe unto
    you Pharisees! for ye love the chief seats in the synagogues, and
    the salutations in the marketplaces. 44 Woe unto you! for ye are
    as the tombs which appear not, and the men that walk over them
    know it not.

    45 And one of the lawyers answering saith unto him, Teacher, in
    saying this thou reproachest us also. 46 And he said, Woe unto you
    lawyers also! for ye load men with burdens grievous to be borne,
    and ye yourselves touch not the burdens with one of your fingers.
    47 Woe unto you! for ye build the tombs of the prophets, and your
    fathers killed them.

    53 And when he was come out from thence, the scribes and the
    Pharisees began to press upon him vehemently, and to provoke him
    to speak of many things; 54 laying wait for him, to catch
    something out of his mouth.

The conflict between Jesus and his enemies here reached its climax. He rebuked their hypocrisy,
and pronounced upon them six solemn woes. His words are full of warning for his followers in
all ages; religion ever tends to become a matter of form and ritual; hypocrisy is often unconscious;
its practice is almost universal.

A Pharisee whose heart was foul with sinful thoughts wondered that Jesus had sat down to eat
without first washing his hands according to the Jewish ritual. No such ceremony was required
by the Law, but only by the traditions upon which the Pharisees laid such stress. Jesus declared
that to wash the body while the heart is impure is as absurd as to cleanse the outside of an
unclean cup or platter. He declared that God who made the body created the soul also, and that
God is more concerned with the latter than with the former. He insisted that while it may be
well to wash the hands, a better preparation for a meal would consist in filling the heart
with love, which might be expressed in gifts to the poor. It was much more important that the
Pharisee should take the hatred from his heart, than that Jesus should wash his hands. Vs. 37-41.

Hypocrisy, however, is ever concerned with external forms while disregarding realities. Therefore
Jesus pronounced a woe upon the Pharisees for tithing the small garden herbs while neglecting
justice toward men and love toward God, for observing some minute religious rite while breaking
all the Ten Commandments. Yet he did not condemn them for caring for these trifles, but for
neglecting things essential. “These ought ye to have done, and not to leave the other undone.”
V. 42. Jesus further rebuked the vanity and the desire for prominence and public recognition
which is at once a mark and a cloak of hypocrisy. V. 43. He further compared the evil influence
of hypocrites to the defiling contact with a grave, which is level with the ground, upon which
one may unconsciously tread and so become ceremonially unclean. Men are not on their guard
against those who make loud boasts of religion. V. 44.

At this juncture a lawyer interrupted Jesus with the statement that these severe denunciations
seemed to include him and his associates. It was true that most lawyers were Pharisees, but
they were the professional teachers of this sect, the recognized leaders of the party; and
in denouncing all Pharisees Jesus seemed to include even these proud expounders of the Law.
Jesus replied that religious teachers who are insincere, or who allow their religion to become
a mere matter of form, are most of all to be rebuked. He pronounced upon them three woes: the
first, for extracting from the Law minute and burdensome requirements which they were not careful
to observe themselves. It is a grievous fault for students and scholars to make religion a
matter of weariness and distaste, instead of a delight to the common people. Vs. 45, 46.

Secondly, Jesus rebuked their heartless cruelty and fanaticism. Teachers of religion are ever
tempted to become bitter partisans, and even to have a share in killing the very prophets and
apostles of God. The hatred of Jesus shown by his enemies was like that of their fathers who
had killed the divine messengers of old. The blood of these martyrs, from the first to the
last mentioned in the Hebrew Bible was yet to be required of the nation, and those who rejected
Jesus would partake in the judgment as they were partakers of the crime, vs. 47-51.

Lastly, the lawyers were rebuked for keeping back the knowledge of God, by
their false interpretations of Scripture and their disregard of the real
spiritual needs of the people. Such teachers of religion are like men who
hold the key to a sacred temple; they themselves will not enter and they
keep back all who would. It is a solemn responsibility to be a professed
teacher of divine truth; and to be at once a “lawyer” and a “hypocrite,”
is to merit these solemn woes which fell from the lips of Christ. So
enraged were his hearers that they threatened him with physical violence.
Hypocrites hate to be exposed. Wise men are glad to be warned and to
repent before it is too late. He who spoke these bitter words of rebuke is
ready to pardon and to purify and to lead his followers in the paths of
service and of peace. 2 But there is
    nothing covered up, that shall not be revealed; and hid, that
    shall not be known.

When Jesus had bitterly rebuked the public religious teachers of his day he turned to his disciples
and spoke words of cheer which have strengthened his followers in all days. Such encouragement
was needed; the bitter hatred of his enemies now threatened the life of Jesus, and made it
evident that his disciples could expect no kinder treatment than their Lord. Then, too, Jesus
had shown the special guilt of those who professed to be guides in matters of religion; his
disciples therefore needed courage to continue their public witness both because of the great
responsibility involved and because it would bring upon them the hatred of men. He encouraged
them, first, by the assurance that the corrupting influence of the Pharisees would come to
an end; their hypocrisy would be mercilessly unmasked; their power would cease; while on the
other hand the witness of the disciples would not always be confined to places of obscurity
but would be heard in all the world. Vs. 1-3. How truly has this prophecy been fulfilled! Compare
the present influence of Hillel or Gamaliel with that of Peter or John. No one can measure
the power for good possessed by the humblest witness for Christ.

Jesus further encouraged his disciples by assuring them of the loving care of God. They should
look to him in reverent trust; this would give confidence and strength and free them from the
fear of man. Their enemies could harm only the body; God controls the eternal destiny of souls,
and to him even the body is precious, and he is concerned with the most minute details of our
lives. If he notes the fall of a sparrow, he must know the peril and need of every one who
is testifying for his Son. Vs. 4-7.

Then again for faithful witnesses there remain great rewards, in spite of what they now may
suffer from men. As they now acknowledge Jesus Christ as Saviour and Lord, so in the glories
of heaven he will acknowledge them as his true and loyal warriors who merit and will share
the blessedness of his triumphant reign. Vs. 8, 9. On the other hand, those who blaspheme his
name by ascribing his power to a Satanic source, ch. 11:15, will be regarded as guilty of an
unpardonable sin. This would not apply to such as in ignorance rejected Jesus, but to those
who had full opportunity of knowing him, and who then scoffed at his claims and maliciously
insulted his divine Person, and made of him an impostor and associated him with the powers
of evil. V. 10.

Last of all, in spite of opposition and threats of all the earthly powers, and in the presence
of the most imposing tribunals, the witnesses of Jesus never need fear, and must never allow
themselves to be silenced. The Holy Spirit, whom their enemies opposed and blasphemed, would
speak through them; he would teach them both how and what to say, vs. 11, 12. This promise
was not designed to encourage indolence or lack of possible preparation, but to assure the
Christian witness that a divine Presence would ever give him needed wisdom and strength and grace.

It is a grave responsibility to testify for Christ, but it is the duty of everyone who bears
his name; and in this service he can be assured that the influence will be measureless, the
protection unfailing, the reward heavenly, the sustaining grace divine.

10. A Warning Against Covetousness. Ch. 21 So is he that layeth
    up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God.

The parable of the Rich Fool was related by our Lord to teach that riches neither form the
real content nor assure the continuance of life, so that it is the sheerest folly to seek for
gold while forgetting God.

A man had come to Jesus with the request, “Teacher, bid my brother divide the inheritance with
me.” The reply implied that the Master regarded his work as spiritual, and that he was not
willing to invade the sphere of civil law or to usurp the place of regularly appointed authorities,
“Man, who made me a judge or a divider over you?”

Possibly this reply contains a message for the modern day and warns us against confusing the
functions of the Church with those of the State. The sphere of the Church is spiritual, and
its province is not to determine questions which are commercial and political. The Church,
however, does provide and inculcate principles which are involved in all moral questions and
which determine justice and right in every sphere of human life. Thus Jesus refused to “divide
the inheritance,” but he pierced to the root of the request and saw that the man was neglecting
the civil law and seeking the support of a religious teacher because he was moved by avarice;
and it is this same “love of money” which lies at the root of most of the injustice and inequity
and cruelty which burden the world to-day. His foolishness consisted in forgetting that fortune
and life itself are dependent upon the will of God, and that a man really owns nothing but
owes everything to God, and that the real value of life consists in the unselfish use of wealth
and of opportunity according to the will of God. How his vain words, “my fruits,” “my barns,”
“my grains,” “my goods,” “my soul,” are contrasted with the solemn message: “This night is
thy soul required of thee.”

“So is he,” continued Jesus, “that layeth up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God.”
It is the sheerest folly to forget that riches neither form the real content nor assure the
continuance of life; it is madness to heap up goods while neglecting God.

11. The Cure of Anxiety. Ch. 25
    And which of you by being anxious can add a cubit unto the measure
    of his life? 26 If then ye are not able to do even that which is
    least, why are ye anxious concerning the rest? 34 For where your treasure is,
    there will your heart be also.

In addressing the crowds Jesus warned them against covetousness by speaking to them the parable
of the Foolish Rich Man who trusted in his goods and forgot God; he now turned to his disciples
to urge them to forget their worries by trust in God. While a Christian must not be selfishly
absorbed in amassing wealth, he need not be anxious about even the necessities of life. The
reason is that “the life is more than the food, and the body than the raiment,” and therefore
God who gave life and made the body will surely provide food and clothing; he who did the greater
will not fail to do the less.

For an example of such providential care Jesus points to the birds: without the “fruits” and
the “barns” and the “goods,” which failed to prolong the life of the rich man, the ravens continue
to live; “God feedeth them: of how much more value are ye than the birds!” Of course we are
to be diligent and industrious and to exercise thrift and foresight; but we are not to be anxious.
Worry will not prolong life; on the other hand, it is worry and not work that kills. Therefore,
if anxiety shortens life, it surely will not supply the necessities of life; trust God for
food. Vs. 24-26.

So, too, as for clothing; if God robes in such beautiful colors the perishable flowers of the
field, will he not provide garments for his own children? To be anxious about these necessities
is to imitate the heathen who know nothing of God’s providential care. We show ourselves to
be his children by our trust in him. Vs. 27-30.

However, while we are not to be absorbed in seeking wealth, as the foolish
rich man, or to be anxious about food and raiment, as are men of the
world, there is something about which we should feel a deep concern, and
that is the Kingdom of God. If we seek and labor for its coming, we can be
sure that our Father will supply our temporal needs. Even though at times
we may be in peril and in want, we can be certain that we are to share at
last the blessedness of that Kingdom. Vs. 31, 32. Therefore we should not
be absorbed in gathering the goods that perish, but by deeds of sacrifice
and works of charity, inspired by gratitude to God and love to men, we are
to lay up “treasure in the heavens” which will never be stolen or
destroyed; and as the heart always follows its treasure, our thoughts will
be turned upward toward God; trust in his power and love will banish our
anxiety and free us from care. 38 And if he shall come in
    the second watch, and if in the third, and find them so, blessed
    are those servants. 44 Of a
    truth I say unto you, that he will set him over all that he hath.

Our Lord had been warning his disciples against allowing their minds to be absorbed in the
selfish acquisition of wealth, and against being anxious about needed food and clothing; they
were to be supremely concerned about his Kingdom which would appear in glory at the time of
his return. As to the events preceding this return, as to its circumstances and results, he
taught them more definitely just before his death; here he simply enjoined upon them the attitude
of watchfulness, implying that if his coming was occupying their thoughts they would be kept
at once from worldliness and from worry, and would be diligent in serving him.

He illustrated this attitude of heart and mind by two parables, the parable of the Returning
Lord and the parable of the Thief. In the former, the master has been attending a marriage,
his servants are awake and clothed, the house is lighted, and all are ready to receive him.
So delighted is he on his arrival to find them faithful that he is ready to give any expression
to his joy; he even is willing to cause them to sit down and to partake of the banquet they
have prepared for him.

The second parable illustrates the truth that as the time when a thief will come is unknown,
therefore the only way to act is to be ready at all times for his approach; therefore, our
Saviour added, “Be ye also ready: for in an hour that ye think not the Son of man cometh.”

The Master here as elsewhere indicated that his return was to be delayed; his absence was to
be like a long night; much must transpire, much be done before he would reappear, but his followers
must ever be prepared for his return. This did not mean that they were to be nervously expectant
nor were they to be saying that the day of his coming was just at hand; rather they were to
be at their places of duty, faithfully performing their tasks, and absorbed in the work which
the Master had given them to do.

This attitude of watchfulness, and of interest in the return of Christ, should particularly
characterize teachers and leaders. This is the force of the question which Peter now asked.
He inquired whether all believers would share equally in the blessings of the Lord’s return;
would not those, like the apostles, who had been most prominent in his service receive from
him a greater reward? Jesus replied that larger privileges imply greater temptations and greater
responsibilities. If a Christian minister has been faithful in feeding his people with spiritual
food, he will be rewarded with even higher opportunities for service; but if the long delay
of his Lord’s return shall make him forgetful and unmindful of its reality, if he shall use
his high position selfishly or shall use his power unkindly, then when the Master appears he
will be punished with the utmost severity.

The chief advantage of a religious leader lies in his opportunity for knowing more fully the
teachings of Christ; his superior knowledge, therefore, will be the ground of his more terrible
punishment in case of unfaithfulness; the principle is abiding and applies in every sphere.
“To whomsoever much is given, of him shall much be required.”

Thus Christ taught that in the future there will be degrees and gradations
both of punishments and rewards. 50 But I have a baptism to be baptized with;
    and how am I straitened till it be accomplished! 51 Think ye that
    I come to give peace in the earth? 55 And when ye see a south wind blowing, ye say,
    There will be a scorching heat; and it cometh to pass. 56 Ye
    hypocrites, ye know how to interpret the face of the earth and the
    heaven; but how is it that ye know not how to interpret this time?
    57 And why even of yourselves judge ye not what is right?

Jesus had been warning the crowds against the peril of selfish enjoyment and urging his followers
to watch and to labor for his return and his Kingdom; but he did not want them to be deceived
and to suppose that this Kingdom could be established without conflict and delay. The present
age was to be one of strife and division, and the Master himself was to be their innocent cause.
Some day he would return to bring justice and holiness and righteousness to complete victory,
and then he would be indeed the Prince of peace.

Now, however, his coming into the world had cast upon the earth the burning brand of division
and strife. This was so inevitable that Jesus had no regret that the fire was already kindled;
but it would not burst into a conflagration until Jesus had been crucified, and he felt a pathetic
impatience to have that dreadful experience accomplished. As Jesus emerged from that baptism
of fire he would be the torch which would set the world ablaze with conflict and separation.
This division would occur even in a home circle of five: father and mother would be divided
against son and daughter and daughter-in-law.

Thus Christ, and specifically his cross, is now dividing the world. Happy are those who interpret
his message and understand his mission and turn to him in repentance and faith!

The multitudes, however, were still unbelieving, and Jesus rebuked their stupid ignorance.
He declared that they could so interpret the signs of weather as to predict correctly rain
or drought, but they could not see in his words and works the proofs that he was the Christ,
the Saviour of the world. However, he warned them to repent before it was too late. They would
have wisdom enough to agree with an adversary while on the way to a courtroom before sentence
had been pronounced, much more should they see that it was the part of wisdom to seek peace
with God before the day of mercy and grace had passed.

14. A Call to Repentance. Ch. 13:1-9

    1 Now there were some present at that very season who told him of
    the Galilæans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their
    sacrifices. 2 And he answered and said unto them, Think ye that
    these Galilæans were sinners above all the Galilæans, because they
    have suffered these things? 5 I
    tell you, Nay: but, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise
    perish. 8 And he answering said
    unto him, Lord, let it alone this year also, till I shall dig
    about it, and dung it: 9 and if it bear fruit thenceforth, well;
    but if not, thou shalt cut it down.

At the very time when Jesus was urging upon his hearers their need of repentance, a report
was made of a cruel slaughter of Galilæans at the hand of Pilate. It was expected that Jesus
would declare the poor sufferers to have merited their fate, and that he would fall into the
common fallacy of supposing that exceptional suffering is a proof of exceptional guilt on the
part of men. Jesus, however, replied that temporary exemption from suffering is a mark of special
grace on the part of God. All impenitent men are certain to suffer, and deserve to suffer;
if judgment has not fallen the delay should be regarded as a merciful opportunity to repent.

Jesus enforced the same truth by referring to a recent calamity in which eighteen men had been
crushed by the fall of a tower. Their fate was not to be regarded as a sign of their special
sinfulness, but as a warning to others that they would likewise suffer unless they repented
of their sins.

The Master had in mind the entire Jewish nation and he further enforced his call to repentance
by the parable of the Fruitless Fig Tree. This was a true type of Israel, but also a symbol
of every impenitent soul. God mercifully preserves and blesses and spares, but the day of mercy
will end. The nation, as the individual, which produces no fruit of penitence and of righteousness
is certain to be cut down. While the opportunity is given, repentance must be shown. “Now is
the acceptable time; ... now is a day of salvation.”

15. A Cure on the Sabbath. Ch. 19 It is like unto a grain of mustard
    seed, which a man took, and cast into his own garden; and it grew,
    and became a tree; and the birds of the heaven lodged in the
    branches thereof.

    20 And again he said, Where unto shall I liken the kingdom of God?
    21 It is like unto leaven, which a woman took and hid in three
    measures of meal, till it was all leavened.

A true follower of Christ will worship in public on the Sabbath Day, for this was the custom
of our Lord. On one of these days he found occasion to reveal his sympathy and power by releasing
a poor woman who for eighteen years had been bound by “a spirit of infirmity,” just as on such
occasions his word to-day brings deliverance to souls bound by the power of sin.

It was his sympathy which prompted this act and further led him to relieve the consciences
of his hearers from the burden of traditions placed upon them by false interpretations of the
Law. When the ruler of the synagogue criticized Jesus, by addressing those whom the woman represented,
on the ground that such healing broke the law of Sabbath rest, his hypocrisy and that of his
sympathizers was unmasked by the reply that where self-interest prompted, they interpreted
the Law so liberally as to allow them on the Sabbath to loose their cattle which had been bound
but a few hours, while they refused to allow Jesus to relieve a daughter of Abraham whom Satan
had bound for years. They were pretending to be zealous for the Law while denying its essential
principle of love. Their real breach of the Law was shown both by their lack of sympathy for
the woman and their hatred of Christ. Their interpretation of the Law was shown to be absurd,
for it prevented an act of mercy which, on the Sabbath, was not only allowable but necessary.
Jesus never intimated that he would abolish the Sabbath; he only designed to restore to it
the true spirit of worship and love and liberty and joy.

In view of this gracious work of power the multitude rejoiced; and Jesus spoke the parables
of the Mustard Seed and the Leaven, the former to indicate that his power yet was to extend
over all the earth and the latter that it was to transform all human life. Some readers interpret
the former parable as indicating the unsubstantial forms that Christianity at times assumes,
and the latter the false doctrine which at times permeates the Church. Whichever interpretation
one accepts, it is hardly wise to base upon it any theories as to the order of events related
to the coming and Kingdom of Christ.

This is the first in a new series of incidents on the last journeys of Jesus toward Jerusalem.
He realized the seriousness of the situation. He knew that he was offering his salvation to
the people for the last time, and therefore he was making an effort to reach every possible
city and village with his message.

Some one among his hearers asked him the question, “Lord, are they few
that are saved?” He did not reply directly but his answer implied that
many Jews who expected to be saved would be lost and many Gentiles whom
the Jews expected to be lost would be saved. Jesus likened the blessings
of his Kingdom to a banquet served in a palace. The door into this palace
is narrow, and many who are invited refuse to pass in thereby; after a
time this door is shut, and then those who before have refused to enter,
intreat the Master of the house to reopen it, but in vain; they are
forever excluded, and are overwhelmed with remorse and chagrin. The narrow
door is that of repentance and faith in Christ; the opportunity for
entrance is present but not endless; those who reject Christ will be
excluded from his Kingdom; among these will be many whose folly will be
specially apparent. In the parable they are represented as pleading for
entrance, and on the very ground which condemned them. They are pictured
as saying that they had known Christ well; they had eaten in his presence
and he had taught in their streets. Why, then, had they not accepted him?
These privileges only increase their guilt; and the Lord refused to
recognize them as his own. It is not important to know exactly how many will be
saved; it is for each who hears the gospel to place himself in that
number, now and at any cost. It is not enough that one lives in a
Christian land, and in a religious home, and possesses knowledge of saving
truth; each must repent and accept Christ for himself. 35
    Behold, your house is left unto you desolate: and I say unto
    you, Ye shall not see me, until ye shall say, Blessed is he that
    cometh in the name of the Lord.

A report reached Jesus that Herod was threatening his life. This report was brought by the
Pharisees who hoped that it would terrify the followers of Jesus and induce him to flee to
Jerusalem where he would fall into the hands of the Jewish rulers.

Instead, Jesus sent to the king a message of defiance and irony; it has no note of insolence,
but reveals the courage and indignation of a true man. “Go and say to that fox”—Jesus thus
addressed Herod because he saw the craftiness of the king. Herod did not wish the disrepute
of killing another prophet so soon after the death of John, but he wished his realm to be rid
of one whom he regarded as a dangerous leader; so he did not arrest Jesus but tried to put
him to flight. The Pharisees were asked to bear this message to the king because Jesus saw
that they were one with the king in the malicious cunning of their report.

“Behold, I cast out demons and perform cures to-day and to-morrow and the third day I am perfected.”
Thus Jesus declared that his time and task were divinely allotted; no king could shorten the
time till the task was done. When his work was complete, then in his death and resurrection
the glory and grace and power of Jesus would be made perfect. “Nevertheless I must go on my
way.” Jesus was to leave Galilee and Perea, the realm of Herod, not because he feared the king,
but in fulfillment of his task which would take him to Jerusalem. The explicit reference to
Jerusalem was made in a tone of solemn irony, “For it cannot be that a prophet perish out of
Jerusalem;” that city had a monopoly in murdering prophets; it would be quite improper for
Jesus to be killed in any other place.

However, the reference to Jerusalem led Jesus to pronounce a lament of touching pathos over
the city he truly loved. He saw that his rejection and death would hasten the destruction of
the city. He saw its doom already hovering over it like a bird of prey. He gladly would have
given his divine salvation and protection, but his people would not accept him. Now they would
be left to their own defense, that is to say, to the ruin which he alone could have averted.
Henceforth they would not see him in his saving power until as a suffering and repentant nation
they would finally welcome his return as that of their true Saviour and Lord. How Jesus always
yearns to bless and to deliver, and how often he is spurned and rejected by those who need
him the most!

3. Jesus as a Sabbath Guest. Ch. 4 But they held their peace. And he took him, and healed him,
    and let him go. 5 And he said unto them, Which of you shall have
    an ass or an ox fallen into a well, and will not straightway draw
    him up on a sabbath day? 6 And they could not answer again unto
    these things. 11
    For everyone that exalteth himself shall be humbled; and he that
    humbleth himself shall be exalted. 18 And they all with one consent began to
    make excuse. The first said unto him, I have bought a field, and I
    must needs go out and see it; I pray thee have me excused. 23 And the lord said unto
    the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges, and constrain
    them to come in, that my house may be filled. 24 For I say unto
    you, that none of those men that were bidden shall taste of my
    supper.

Luke pictures our Lord not as a severe ascetic but as a man of human sympathies and social
instincts, mingling freely with his fellow men, worshiping with them in their synagogues and
eating with them in their homes. No domestic scene in the life of our Lord is sketched with
more detail than that of the Sabbath feast in the house of a Pharisee. Jesus is pictured as
entering with the guests, noting the ranks of society to which they belong, and taking a leading
part in their conversation. Yet he never for a moment forgot his mission; he seized every opportunity
for delivering some needed message. Here his tones were unusually severe, for he was among
persons who, while formally courteous, were in their hearts hostile to him; but he showed to
all his unfailing grace, and his desire for their highest good.

While the guests were assembling Jesus saw a man suffering from disease. He knew that the Pharisees
were watching him and would object to his effecting a cure upon the Sabbath Day and he therefore
turned to ask whether a cure would be lawful. When they hesitated to reply, he healed the sufferer
and then rebuked their hypocrisy, and warned against all insincerity in religion by reminding
these formalists that they would not hesitate on the Sabbath to rescue a beast they owned;
should they regard it as sinful to deliver a human being from distress? Jesus never encouraged
breaking the Sabbath law, but he taught that this law must be interpreted by love.

When the guests were seated and Jesus saw how they chose for themselves the most desirable
places, he took occasion to rebuke selfish ambition and to give a lesson in humility. Evidently,
when Jesus advised a guest to “sit down in the lowest place; that when he that hath bidden
thee cometh, he may say to thee, Friend, go up higher,” he was not merely teaching good manners
or worldly wisdom, nor was he advising the pride that masquerades as humility. He was stating
the great law that among his followers true lowliness and conscious unworthiness in the sight
of God are the real conditions of advancement and honor; “For every one that exalteth himself
shall be humbled; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted.”

Then as Jesus looked around upon the company he took occasion to teach a lesson in true charity.
He told his host—and there was something of playfulness in his voice—that in selecting guests
one should invite not only the rich, lest he might be so unfortunate (?) as to receive an invitation
in return, but also the poor, who could not return the favor. Here again, Jesus was not giving
merely rules of social hospitality; he was illustrating the great spiritual principle of unselfish
motives in all deeds of kindness. We are not to confer benefits with a view to receiving benefits
in return.

However, Jesus did not mean literally to forbid inviting rich guests to our homes or to insist
that all feasts must be confined to paupers, but to teach that no service is to be rendered
with the mere hope of personal gain. It is proper and pleasant, it may be even profitable,
to entertain “friends” or “brethren” or “kinsmen” or “rich neighbors;” but in none of these
cases is such entertainment a ground of merit for they may “bid thee again;” but if kindness
is shown to the poor or rich simply for their good and with no thought of personal gain either
present or future, the deed will not be without its reward: “for thou shalt be recompensed
in the resurrection of the just.”

Possibly this reference or some similar reference called forth from one of the guests the exclamation,
“Blessed is he that shall eat bread in the kingdom of God.” Jesus took the occasion to give
the parable of the Great Supper, by which he illustrated the sinful folly of refusing to accept
his offer of salvation. In this story those who were bidden to the feast at first feigned a
willingness to come, but subsequently, by their refusal and their flimsy excuses, they showed
their complete absorption in selfish interests and their utter disregard for their host. However,
their places were filled with other guests, some of them poor and helpless, from their own
city; others were vagrants from the highways and hedges beyond. Thus Jesus plainly pictured
the refusal by the rulers and Pharisees of his offered salvation and its acceptance, first
by publicans and sinners, and then by despised Gentiles.

There was, however, a message for each one who heard the story, and there is a message to-day
for anyone who is rejecting Christ. The Pharisees, by inviting Jesus to dine, pretended to
feel some sympathy for him as a prophet, while in their hearts they hated him; and the very
man whose pious and sentimental remark about “the kingdom of God” occasioned the parable, was
unwilling to accept the invitation to “eat bread in the kingdom of God” which Jesus was presenting.

So there are those to-day who show an outward respect for Christian truth and talk sentimentally
about the Kingdom of God, who, however, are so absorbed in selfish interests and have so little
real love for God that they refuse the offer of salvation, while social outcasts and despised
heathen gladly accept the invitation to life and divine fellowship and eternal joy.

4. Counting the Cost. Ch. 29 Lest haply, when he hath laid a
    foundation, and is not able to finish, all that behold begin to
    mock him, 30 saying, This man began to build, and was not able to
    finish. 31 Or what king, as he goeth to encounter another king in
    war, will not sit down first and take counsel whether he is able
    with ten thousand to meet him that cometh against him with twenty
    thousand? 32 Or else, while the other is yet a great way off, he
    sendeth an ambassage, and asketh conditions of peace. 33 So
    therefore whosoever he be of you that renounceth not all that he
    hath, he cannot be my disciple. 34 Salt therefore is good: but if
    even the salt have lost its savor, wherewith shall it be seasoned?
    35 It is fit neither for the land nor for the dunghill: men cast
    it out. He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.

As Jesus was journeying on toward Jerusalem the attending crowds were increasing in size and
in excitement. The people imagined that he was about to establish a kingdom in pomp and splendor
and power, and in these glories they expected to share. To remove the misunderstanding, Jesus
turned to declare the true conditions of discipleship. His followers must expect sacrifice
and suffering and be willing to part with all they possessed, even with life itself. When he
declared that they must hate their kindred and their own lives, he of course meant that they
must love them less than they loved him, regarding them with aversion only in so far as they
were opposed to him or stood in the way of his service. To be his disciple one must be willing
to “bear his own cross,” which was a symbol of suffering and of death; one must continually
yield his will to the will of Christ, no matter what hardship or loss might be involved.

Jesus did not wish to discourage men from following him, but warned them first to count the
cost. This he illustrated by referring to the folly of laying the foundation for a building
without first estimating the entire expense and one’s ability to meet it; he also stated, as
a further illustration, the rashness of entering a war without first calculating what sacrifices
must be made to win. Jesus did not mean that it is better not to begin the Christian life than
to begin and fail, but that it is not wise even to begin unless one first realizes that it
involves a readiness to renounce everything which the service of Christ may demand. “So therefore
whosoever he be of you that renounceth not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple.”

Nothing could be more useless than a worldly and selfish and willful follower of Christ; he
is like salt that has lost its savor; he lacks the very essence of discipleship; he can be
of no possible service to his Lord.

5. The Prodigal Son. Ch. 15

    1 Now all the publicans and sinners were drawing near unto him to
    hear him. 2 And both the Pharisees and the scribes murmured,
    saying, This man receiveth sinners, and eateth with them.

The precious and matchless parable of the Prodigal Son belongs naturally to Luke. Its literary
charm, its tender beauty, its deep human interest, its breadth of sympathy, its perfect picture
of the grace and love of God, all are in peculiar accord with the purpose and genius of this
Gospel.

The parable is linked with two others, the teachings of which it includes and completes: the
parables of the Lost Sheep and of the Lost Coin. The occasion of all three parables was the
censure passed by the Pharisees upon Jesus because of his association with social outcasts
and his cordial welcome to penitent sinners. Jesus rebuked his enemies by showing that it is
natural to rejoice in the recovery of a lost sheep or a lost coin or a lost son: much more,
then, must God rejoice in the recovery of a lost soul. Evidently they who fail to share his
joy must be out of sympathy and fellowship with him.

The first parable reveals the love of God in depicting his compassion for the distress and
helplessness of the sinner. The second shows how precious a lost soul is in the sight of the
loving God. Both of them picture his yearning and patient effort for the recovery of the sinner
and his abounding joy in the restoration of the lost. The statement that “there shall be joy
in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine righteous persons,
who need no repentance,” is not to be interpreted too literally. It does not mean that God
finds more satisfaction in a repentant sinner than in a sinless saint. Jesus was here referring
definitely to the penitent publicans and to the self-righteous Pharisees. God did not take
delight in the sins of the former, nor did he regard the state of the latter as perfect, even
taking the Pharisees at their best and regarding them as faithful to the laws of God. Whatever
its motive, morality is always better than lawlessness and impurity. However, a repentant sinner
who understands the grace and mercy of God is always more pleasing to him than the Pharisee,
proud, critical, and unloving, however correct he may be in his moral behavior.

This truth is made more plain in the parable of the Prodigal Son. Here we have perfectly described
the experience of the repentant sinner and also the unsympathetic attitude of the disdainful
Pharisee. The first is represented in the story by the prodigal and the second by the conduct
of his elder brother.

In describing the waywardness of this younger son, Jesus gave a complete picture of the character
and consequences of sin. Some have thought that the parable of the Lost Sheep indicates that
sin is due in part to ignorance and folly and that the parable of the Lost Coin shows that
it may be occasioned by misfortune or accident. The parable of the Prodigal Son, however, shows
that it is usually due to willful choice and to a desire for indulgence. Its results are sketched
in appalling colors. We are shown all its disillusion, suffering, slavery, and despair. As
a picture of the inevitable consequences of sin, no touch could be added to the scene of the
prodigal in the far country when he had spent all, when the famine had arisen, when he had
sold himself to feed swine and was unable to be satisfied even with the coarse food he was
providing for beasts.

Nor is there any more beautiful picture of repentance than was drawn when the Master described
the prodigal as “he came to himself,” his sin had not been mere folly, it had been madness.
He remembered a former time of joy and plenty in his early home. He realized his present desperate
need; he resolved to arise and go to his father. Most of all, he saw that his offense had been
not only against a loving, earthly parent but against God, and that he was wholly undeserving
of fellowship with his father. Repentance is not only sorrow for sin; it is an acknowledgment
that the offense has been committed against a holy God; it is a change of heart toward him,
and a resolution for a new life which manifests itself in definite action. “He arose, and came
to his father.”

Strictly speaking, this is the end of the parable of the Prodigal Son. In another sense the
most beautiful part immediately follows. It is a description of the matchless love shown by
God to every repentant soul. The father had never ceased to love the prodigal or to hope and
yearn for his return. He had been eagerly looking for his wayward son. It assures the sinner
that as he turns to God he will be received into the closest fellowship of a son and heir and
that his return will give joy to the heart of God who will regard him as one that “was dead,
and is alive again,” as one who “was lost, and is found.”

The picture of the elder son is exquisitely sketched. It was unquestionably intended to describe
the loveless Pharisees who envied the joy of the repentant publicans and sinners. It furthermore
brings a message to all persons in every age to whom religion is merely a matter of unwilling
obedience and of loveless faithfulness to the laws of God. It depicts souls out of fellowship
with God, feeling no real joy in his service and sharing none of his gladness in the salvation
of lost souls.

The elder brother knew nothing of the experience of a true son. He was merely a slave. When
the prodigal returned he was not watching with his father, he was “in the field;” when he learned
that his brother had been welcomed to the home he was filled with anger. He refused to enter
the house and when his father came out to entreat him, he accused him of partiality and unkindness.
His words described admirably the self-righteousness of the Pharisees, “I never transgressed
a commandment of thine;” they also show how little he appreciated his true privileges, “thou
never gavest me a kid.” The reply of his father intimates the possibilities which he never
had appreciated and the privileges which he never had enjoyed, “Son, thou art ever with me,
and all that is mine is thine.” It had always been possible for the Pharisees to enjoy the
grace and mercy and love of God; but to them religion had been a mere burdensome round of rites
and duties. It had given no satisfaction, no gladness, to their hearts. Something of their
experience is paralleled even by Christians of the present day. Failing to appreciate the gracious
pardon of God and his willingness to supply every spiritual need, forgetting the possibility
of living in daily communion and fellowship with him, knowing nothing of his joys in the salvation
and repentance of lost souls, they are seeking in their own strength, wearily and joylessly,
to do the things that they believe to be right and to obey the commands of God, but their lives
are like those of servants, not like the free, joyous, loving experience of true sons.

Possibly the most artistic touch in the parable is its abrupt close. We do not know whether
the elder son yielded to the entreaty of his father or not. It was an appeal to the Pharisees;
would they accept the grace of God and further his plans for the salvation of the lost, or
would they continue to criticize and envy the repentant sinner? Shall we live as servants or
as sons?

6. The Unrighteous Steward. Ch. 16:1-13

    1 And he said also unto the disciples, There was a certain rich
    man, who had a steward; and the same was accused unto him that he
    was wasting his goods. 4 I am resolved what to do, that, when I am
    put out of the stewardship, they may receive me into their houses.
    5 And calling to him each one of his lord’s debtors, he said to
    the first, How much owest thou unto my lord? 10 He that is faithful in a very
    little is faithful also in much: and he that is unrighteous in a
    very little is unrighteous also in much. Ye cannot serve God and mammon.

The parable of the Unrighteous Steward is often regarded as the most perplexing of all the
parables of our Lord. It seems to picture a man who robbed his master and received his master’s
praise and was pointed to by Jesus as an example for his followers; further, it seems to indicate
that a place in heaven can be purchased with money. A more careful reading shows that the praise
was bestowed, not for dishonesty, but for prudence and foresight, that our Lord would have
his followers imitate these good qualities in a bad man, and further that it is possible to
use wealth so generously as to secure endless satisfaction and joy.

The story is that of a steward or a trustee who was in charge of the property of a rich landowner.
Report had reached his master of the extravagance and dishonesty of this servant. An account
was demanded and he was certain to lose his position. However, he seized on the opportunity
which was still his so to use the wealth intrusted to him as to secure friends who would provide
a home for him when his stewardship had been lost.

The story is intended to illustrate the stewardship of wealth. No money is really owned by
a follower of Christ; it is simply intrusted to him to be wisely used in accordance with the
will of the Master. For its use a strict account must some day be made. It will, therefore,
be the part of wisdom and of prudence so to use that which is now intrusted that in the eternity
to come there will be no regret but only joy for the way in which wealth was employed. In the
parable the steward was guilty of fraud, as he reduced the debts of those who owed money to
his master. He was really using for his future benefit money which was not his own. Of course
the Christian is to act with scrupulous honesty; nevertheless, as he benefits others by his
generous gifts, he really is using money which belongs to the Lord, but of course he is using
it in accordance with the will of his Master.

In applying the parable, Jesus indicated that the right use of money, which seeks the welfare
of others, applies not only to the rich but also to the poor, “He that is faithful in a very
little is faithful also in much.”

Jesus further indicated that the stewardship which all Christians now enjoy is a training for
larger service in the life to come. The difficulty with the dishonest servant was that he was
disloyal to his master and was really seeking to serve himself. One who really loves his Lord
will be faithful in the use of that which is intrusted to him. The danger of stewards is that
of divided allegiance. Ye cannot serve God and mammon.”

7. The Rich Man and Lazarus. Ch. 17 But it is easier for
    heaven and earth to pass away, than for one tittle of the law to
    fall.

The parable of the Unrighteous Steward was intended to teach the possibility of the right use
of wealth. The parable of the Rich Man and Lazarus was designed by our Lord to warn his hearers
against its abuse. Between the two parables Luke records a number of sayings, the connection
of which cannot be determined beyond question but they seem to have been quoted by him as an
introduction to the second of these parables, vs. 14-18. They contain a rebuke of the Pharisees
for their besetting sin of avarice and a statement of the unfailing authority of the Law, the
letter of which they observed, but by the spirit of which they were condemned.

These Pharisees ridiculed our Lord for teaching the absolute necessity of generosity and benevolence
and the unselfish use of wealth. Our Lord replied that while these enemies of his might receive
the approval of men, God read their hearts and many who received human praise were but abominable
in the sight of God. Jesus stated that while the gospel message did differ from the Law and
while many were eagerly accepting its blessed privileges, it did not set aside the Law, but
only showed how its demands could be met. When he stated that “one tittle of the law” could
not fall, he referred to the minute projections which distinguish Hebrew letters, and meant
that the slightest requirement of the Law was sacred and abiding. He illustrated these truths
by a reference to the Seventh Commandment, and insisted that adultery did not lose its sinful
character because of any interpretation of the Law such as was put upon it by those who were
teaching lax theories of divorce. It was still sinful, even when justified by civil enactment.
Thus Jesus was reminding the Pharisees that the Law might abide and be sacred even when legalists
who observed its letter were condemned.

In the parable of the Rich Man and Lazarus, Jesus by no means taught that it is sinful to be
rich or that the poor are all saved. He did mean to suggest the solemn peril of the selfish
use of wealth. The sin of the rich man did not consist either in the way in which he had acquired
his wealth or in the fact that he possessed it, nor yet in any breach of moral law, but in
the plain statement that while he was living in selfish luxury one who was in sore need lay
unrelieved at his door. The rich man is commonly called Dives, the Latin name for “a man of
wealth.” Lazarus is the only person in any parable of our Lord to whom a special name is given.
It is just possible that the name was intended to indicate the character of the man as one
who trusted in the help of God. The story shows not only the contrast between the two men in
the present life, but the still greater contrast in the life that is to come. The picture is
not to be interpreted with absurd literalness; but it does contain a serious warning, and behind
its figures of speech are solemn realities. It does indicate the remorse and the anguish which
forever may be experienced by those who upon earth make only a selfish and heartless use of
wealth and position and opportunity. The consequences are shown to be as endless as they are
distressing. A time of reversal is to come, a time of judgment and retribution.

It is evident that Jesus was especially warning the Pharisees; the rich man was a representative
of this class who were notorious for their scrupulous observance of law and for their lives
of selfish luxury and indulgence. The rich man addressed Abraham as his father, and was addressed
by Abraham as his son. This is an intimation that the most orthodox Jew might be lost and come
at last to a place of torment.

As the rich man requested that a special warning be sent to his brethren, it is possible that
he was expressing his sympathy; more probably he was making an excuse and intimating that had
he been given more light he would not have so grievously sinned. The reply is, therefore, very
significant, “If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, if one
rise from the dead.” It was an answer to the Pharisees for their continual request that Jesus
should give some striking sign by which they would recognize his divine mission. Our Lord indicated
that a striking prodigy or miracle will never convince those whose hearts are not right with
God. He declared further that the Law and the Prophets plainly set forth the divine requirement
of love. One who fails to observe this supreme law in the use of wealth and of all similar
opportunities and privileges is under condemnation and is in peril of eternal pain.

8. Warnings to the Disciples. Ch. 3 Take heed to
    yourselves: if thy brother sin, rebuke him; and if he repent,
    forgive him. 9 Doth
    he thank the servant because he did the things that were
    commanded?

After the severe rebuke given by our Lord to the Pharisees in view of their selfish abuse of
wealth, Luke records four apparently disconnected warnings given to the disciples. The first,
vs. 1, 2, was against the peril of causing others to sin. In this world of selfishness and
of evil desire, our Lord declared, it is inevitable that such offenses will be committed, but
he pronounced a solemn woe upon anyone guilty of this grievous fault. He declared that it would
be better for such a person to be drowned in the sea rather than to allow himself to become
guilty of such a sin. The death of the body is far preferable to the death of the soul. Therefore,
Jesus warned his followers lest they might lead anyone astray or causes anyone to stumble,
particularly such as might be in years or experience less mature than themselves. No age of
the Church has been without its tragedies in which power and influence have been selfishly
used to mislead innocent souls, and no life is beyond the possibility of placing stumblingblocks
in the paths of others or of exerting even unconsciously influences which may cause others to sin.

In the second warning, here recorded by Luke, vs. 3, 4, Jesus guarded his disciples against
lack of charity. He intimated that his followers should be ready always to forgive. He did
not advise weakness or indifference to sin; he suggested that a brother who offends may deserve
and should receive a rebuke. It is proper that he should be made to feel and to appreciate
his fault. Nevertheless, he is to be treated with kindness and if he sincerely repents, he
is to be forgiven freely. Even if he repeats his sin with frequency, no revenge is to be harbored
against him. Jesus suggested that his offense might be committed “seven times in the day,”
by which he meant an unlimited repetition of the fault; even then if his repentance is sincere,
forgiveness must not be denied.

The twelve apostles, probably in view of the particular responsibilities which rested upon
them, turned to their Master with the petition, “Lord, increase our faith.” The reply contains
a solemn warning, that there is need of such increase, a far greater need than the petitioners
realized. Nevertheless, there is also in the reply a gracious promise. They were lovingly rebuked
for their lack of faith, but they were reassured by a revelation of the unlimited power of
faith. Our Lord asserted that if they possessed real faith, even so small as to be compared
with one of the most minute objects in nature, namely, “a grain of mustard seed,” they would
be able by a word to accomplish incredible results, speaking figuratively, to cause a mulberry
tree to be rooted up and planted in the sea. The followers of Christ to-day need to be reminded
of these same truths, namely, of the narrow limits to which faith is usually confined and the
unbounded possibilities which might be theirs if their trust in Christ were more simple, more
unquestioning, and more real. Vs. 5, 6.

The fourth warning here recorded rebukes the pride, the self-confidence, the desire for praise
and for reward, which too often characterize the followers of Christ. Jesus taught that no
human works, however perfect, give a claim upon God, but are merely the fulfillment of duty.
This truth is set forth in the parable of the Unprofitable Servant. Vs. 7-10. The word “unprofitable”
does not mean worthless, but merely implies one who has not gone beyond his obligation or duty.
The picture is that of a slave who has labored faithfully in the field and who when the day
is done merely continues in the evening to accomplish his appointed tasks. His master does
not show any particular gratitude to one who is doing that which he is expected to do. He does
not especially praise his servant for doing the things commanded.

So in the case of every man, a life of the most blameless holiness and love is no more than
God requires. It is no ground on which a special reward can be demanded. It is no reason for
expecting promotion or praise. To do less would be to neglect an obvious duty, and to do more
than duty is impossible. While this parable rebukes all pride and cuts off all merit of works,
it is nevertheless true that in other parables our Lord taught the certainty of rewards which
he is to grant faithful servants not as a matter of compulsion on his part but in loving grace.

The healing of ten lepers begins the closing cycle of incidents which marked the last journeys
of Jesus toward Jerusalem. It is quite like Luke to record this miracle, for the chief feature
of the story is the gratitude and the blessing of a Samaritan, and Luke is ever describing
Jesus as the Saviour, not only of the Jews, but of the whole human race.

There is in this miracle, however, another peculiar feature; before the lepers were cured they
were bidden to go to the priests and to declare that the cure had been effected, and “As they
went, they were cleansed.” It required no little faith to start upon that journey; but they
started, and their faith was rewarded. So to-day when men come to Christ with their request
to be delivered from sin, he commands them to act as though the petition already were granted,
and with the act of faith comes the answer to the prayer. The command of Christ involved a
promise and upon his promises we can always rely with absolute safety. Nine out of ten probably
will forget every favor they may receive. It is rare that one realizes and acknowledges his
debt. Still more sad it is to see so few among those who have accepted the salvation of Christ
showing real gratitude in lives of joyous service and declaring that they are constrained to
live for him who died for them.

There was, however, for the Samaritan a glad word of blessed assurance and promise, “Arise,
and go thy way: thy faith hath made thee whole.” Jesus either meant to call attention to the
means of the cure, namely faith in himself, and so to nurture that germ of new life into fuller
trust in his divine person; or he meant to say that the faith which first had secured the healing
of the body and which was manifested in the man’s return and his gratitude now secured for
him the salvation of his soul. In either case we are reminded that gratitude is often found
where least it is expected; that it is always pleasing to our Lord; and that it is the certain
condition of further blessedness and joy.

2. The Coming of the Kingdom. Ch.

    22 And he said unto the disciples, The days will come, when ye
    shall desire to see one of the days of the Son of man, and ye
    shall not see it. 23 And they shall say to you, Lo, there! 32 Remember Lot’s wife. 33 Whosoever shall seek
    to gain his life shall lose it: but whosoever shall lose his
    life shall preserve it. 34 I say unto you, In that night there
    shall be two men on one bed; the one shall be taken, and the other
    shall be left. 35 There shall be two women grinding together; the
    one shall be taken, and the other shall be left. 37 And they
    answering say unto him, Where, Lord? And he said unto them, Where
    the body is, thither will the eagles also be gathered together.

Either in mere curiosity or with a desire for debate the Pharisees approached Jesus with a
question as to when the Kingdom of God would come. Jesus replied that it would not come in
such manner as they were expecting, nor would it appear as a visible development of which they
could say, “It is here,” or “there,” for, in the person of the King, it was already “in the
midst” of them and they did not recognize it. Thus when Jesus said, “The kingdom of God is
within you,” he could hardly have meant that it was in the hearts of the hostile and godless
Pharisees; nor is the familiar and beautiful conception of the Kingdom as “a reign of God in
human hearts” thus expressed in the New Testament. Jesus more probably meant that in his own
person and work the Kingdom was present. The essence of this Kingdom is always spiritual and
consists in “righteousness and peace and joy.” It is to have, however, a future, visible manifestation
at the appearing of the King. The question as to the time and manner of its coming is not to
be asked either to satisfy mere curiosity or to arouse controversy; for men of the world, like
the Pharisees, the important fact is that Christ, who is ever a divine and spiritual presence,
is to be accepted as Master and Lord; his service always issues in new and more blessed life.

To the disciples, who trusted him, it was possible for Jesus to answer more in detail the question
as to the coming of the Kingdom which is to be inaugurated in splendor on his return. He told
them that they must expect first a period of long delay in which their weary hearts would often
yearn for a single day of the coming glory and that many deceivers would point to places and
times of his appearing. However, when he did appear it would be with suddenness and unmistakable
splendor, like the lightning which in an instant flashes across the whole heaven.

First, however, this King who will then come to reign must suffer and die; and the world which
has rejected him will not be expecting his return. When he does reappear the race will be in
the same carnal security, careless and indifferent and absorbed in the usual occupations of
life, as were the men in the time of the Flood or the inhabitants of Sodom in the day of its doom.

On the contrary, those who are to share the glories of the Kingdom must be looking for their
returning Lord. Their proper attitude of mind is pictured by a series of acts; one who is on
the housetop is not to come down to secure his goods; one in the field will not return to his
house; they will not look backward, but will go forth eagerly to meet their Master in whom
alone is their safety and their hope.

It will be a time of certain separations even for those most closely related; for example,
two men will be sleeping in the same bed: one will be taken and the other left; two women will
be sharing a common task: one will be taken and the other left. This word “taken” is the same
beautiful expression found in the Gospel of John, where is recorded Jesus’ promise, “I ...
will receive you unto myself.” It speaks of the peace and joy and blessedness of those who
gladly welcome the coming of the King.

At a question from the disciples as to where such judgment would take place, our Lord replied
that it will be universal; wherever the carcass is there the vultures will be gathered together;
where there is corruption and sin, there will judgment fall. Yet this judgment will be followed
by the splendor of the Kingdom for which the followers of Christ watch and pray and labor and wait.

3. The Unrighteous Judge. Ch.

The parable of the Unrighteous Judge was spoken in direct connection with the instructions
given to the disciples by their Master in reference to his return. It is, therefore, not merely
a general exhortation to prayer, but to prayer for the coming of Christ, and more specifically
to the confident expectation of this event and of the blessedness which will result.

It does, however, contain a very real encouragement to prayer and for all Christians and at
all times. The argument is this: If an unjust judge, who has regard for neither God nor man,
would yield to the importunity of an unknown widow because he feared that she would annoy him
by her repeated requests, how much more will a just God be ready to reward the persevering
petitions of his own loved ones who cry to him continually!

In spite of all the mysteries involved, the followers of Christ should pray without ceasing,
and with all importunity should present their petitions with the assurance that God does hear
and in his own time will answer.

The particular force of the parable relates, however, to the Church in her conscious weakness
and loneliness, in the age between the crucifixion and the second coming of Christ. Jesus had
just given a description of the world at the time of his return. He had pictured the prevalent
carelessness and indifference and absorption in earthly pursuits, and now he wished to encourage
his followers to be patient and to turn their hearts toward him in expectation and prayer.
The widow in the parable is not so much requesting that an enemy should be punished as that
she should be given her property rights for which she is applying to the judge. So the Church
is pictured, not simply as crying for vengeance upon persecutors, but rather as longing and
praying for all those blessings which have been promised and which will be received at the
coming of the Lord.

There is a deep mournfulness in the question which Jesus asked after expounding his parable,
“Nevertheless, when the Son of man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth?” Will there still
remain those who are true to Christ, who love him and are looking for his return? The very
question is a solemn warning against the peril of being overcome by prevalent worldliness and
unbelief. However, the answer is not to be given in a spirit of hopelessness and pessimism
and despair. The Church will always have her adversaries, she ever will need to be on her guard
against the worldly influences by which she is surrounded. However, there will always be those
who are true to him who has chosen them out of the world, and after long days of weary waiting
their hearts will rejoice in the sudden appearing of the righteous judge who will bring with
him glories brighter than they have dared to ask or to expect.

4. The Pharisee and the Publican. Ch. 12 I
    fast twice in the week; I give tithes of all that I get.

The parable of the Pharisee and the Publican was designed to teach humility not only in prayer
but in every estimate of oneself and in every approach to God. It further contrasts the religion
of form with the religion of the heart. It shows that the way of penitence is the only path
to pardon and to peace.

It was not addressed to Pharisees, although it is a severe exposure of the hypocrisy and self-deception
of Pharisaism of every kind. Jesus seems rather to have had in mind some of his own followers;
but whatever their class or profession, Pharisees have their representatives in every age and
land. They are described as “certain who trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and
set all others at nought.”

Such, indeed, was the Pharisee here described. He had gone up to the Temple to pray; he stood
in some conspicuous place; he addressed God but he uttered no true prayer. He began by saying,
“I thank thee,” but he really addressed himself. He rejoiced that in comparison with other
men he formed a class by himself. He declared all others to be “extortioners, unjust, adulterers,”
and as an example of such sinners he pointed to the poor publican at whom he was looking instead
of looking to God. He boasted that he had refrained from the sins of other men and also that
he had performed more good deeds than the law required. Moses instituted no obligatory fast;
but the Pharisee fasted twice in the week. Moses exempted certain things from the tithe; the
Pharisee had tithed his entire income. In other words, he had been better than God required.
He had placed God under obligation to him. How little does such a man understand the real holiness
of God, of the requirements of that law the essence of which is love!

In striking contrast the publican was standing at a respectful distance from the supposed saint
whose formal piety had impressed his fellow men. He did not venture even to look toward heaven.
He beat upon his breast, as a sign of mourning, and cried out in anguish, “God, be thou merciful
to me a sinner.” The original words seem to imply that he regarded himself as likewise distinct
from all other men. He felt and confessed himself to be “the sinner;” but as he acknowledged
his guilt and turned to God in penitence, he was accepted as righteous in the sight of God
and received pardon and peace.

There can be no misunderstanding as to the lesson which the Master wished to impress. “This
man went down to his house justified rather than the other.” A sense of guilt and a yearning
for pardon and a cry to God for mercy—this is the very beginning of a new life; and however
far one may progress in holiness there is ever need of similar humility. The nearer one is
to God, the more conscious is he of his sinfulness and the less likely to boast of his own
moral attainments. The more one acknowledges his unworthiness, the better is he prepared to
serve his Master and his fellow men. The pride of Pharisaism on the part of nations, as well
as in the lives of individuals, stands in the way of helpfulness and brotherhood and the favor
of God. What is needed to-day is universal repentance, a manifestation of the humble and the
contrite heart; “For every one that exalteth himself shall be humbled; but he that humbleth
himself shall be exalted.”

5. Jesus Receiving Little Children. Ch.

This charming picture of Jesus blessing little children is sketched by Matthew and Mark as
well as by Luke. Its attractiveness has given it a place on the canvas of many an artist. Its
symbolic message is being accepted by the modern Church, “They were bringing unto him also
their babes.” The parents were probably carrying these children in their arms. They realized
that not only the lepers and the infirm needed the touch of Christ, but that the power of the
Master would bring blessing to the children as well.

This touch may properly picture that personal relation and spiritual contact with Christ which
to-day, with equal eagerness, should be sought for their children by all parents. “When the
disciples saw it, they rebuked them.” They seemed to have felt that children were too insignificant
to be allowed to interfere with the work or to demand the attention of Christ. At this present
time there are many things which tend to keep parents from bringing their children to the Master:
custom and carelessness and indifference and fear and diffidence; even friends seem to play
the part of those “disciples” and to conspire to prevent and rebuke those who really long to
see their children brought into a sanctifying relationship to the Lord. No problem of to-day
is more important than the removal of such barriers and obstacles. The Christian nurture of
children is the supreme need of the times. “But Jesus called them unto him, saying, Suffer
the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not.” This reply of the Master has cast
an unfading halo about the faces of all children. Their innocence and their need made a special
appeal to the Master. Should it not affect us in like manner, and should we not feel that no
work is more Christlike and none more blessed than the care of these little ones whom our Lord
so truly loves? We are the real servants of our Master only as we feel the appeal of childhood
and as we seek to supply to children their physical and mental and spiritual needs.

“For to such belongeth the kingdom of God.” It is theirs by right. It belongs not only to those
particular children whom Jesus was then blessing, not only to all children in general, but
to all of whatever age who are childlike in their trust and dependence and purity. All those
who are intrusted to the care of the Master and who accept his saving grace will find a place
in his Kingdom.

As the crowds gazed in wonder and sympathy on this tender scene, our Lord added this word of
warning, “Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall in no
wise enter therein.”

6. The Rich Ruler. Ch.
    21 And he said, All these things have I observed from my youth up.

In contrast with the penitent publican and with the loving trust of little children which Luke
has been depicting, there steps upon the scene a young man, rich, upright, morally earnest,
but apparently unconscious of the sinful greed which threatened his soul and of that trust
in riches which might prevent his entering the Kingdom of God. In spite of his riches, his
youth, his position, and his power, his heart was not satisfied. He wished to convince the
young man of his moral need. He intimated that the thoughtless use of the word “good,” addressed
to one whom he regarded as a human teacher, was a proof that the young man had a superficial
view of goodness. Judged by a divine standard the young inquirer could not claim to be good,
nor can any man regard himself as righteous in the light of divine holiness.

In order to awaken the conscience and to disturb the complacent self-righteousness of the young
inquirer, Jesus now tested him in the light of the commandments in which God has revealed his
holy will. The youth at once replied, “All these things have I observed from my youth up.”
Jesus now applied the deep probe which showed that the man had never observed the spirit of
the Law, even though he believed that he had kept the letter.

Jesus promised an eternal recompense for sacrifice, and he offers by his personal companionship
the influence and power which will make the keeping of the Law more possible and complete.
No one can claim to be righteous when judged by the commandments as interpreted by Christ.
Our only hope is to come to him for guidance and help. He will lay bare the secret selfishness
of our hearts, and will develop the spirit of love and service which forms the essence of eternal
life, and in heaven he will ultimately recompense his followers for every loss.

Jesus does not demand that all who obey him must literally leave their worldly possessions.
In his command to the rich ruler he was dealing with a specific case. He does demand, however,
that each one shall give up anything which prevents open, honest discipleship and fellowship
with himself. In the case of this inquirer the obstacle was his wealth. It was impossible for
him to retain it and yet to follow Christ. The Master made plain to him that his goodness had
been superficial and inadequate. He showed him that love of money was the canker which had
been hidden in his soul. He plainly placed before him the necessity of choosing between his
wealth and the eternal life which Jesus alone can give. No wonder that when the young ruler
heard the stern requirements and realized for the first time that he was controlled by his
wealth, “He became exceeding sorrowful; for he was very rich.” He kept his wealth and he rejected
his Saviour. He saw the possibility of eternal life, but he was not willing to pay the price.
He retained his riches, but he lost his soul.

As Jesus looked upon him in pity, he startled his disciples by the statement of a truth which
the scene had illustrated: “How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of
God!” This was particularly surprising to the Jews. They imagined that wealth was a positive
proof of divine favor. What then did Jesus mean? He did not intend to teach that wealth is
sinful or that private property is a social wrong. He meant that riches may possibly keep their
possessor from Christian discipleship and that one who seeks to satisfy himself with such wealth
as keeps him from Christ can never enter the Kingdom of God. When the disciples heard this,
they were astonished and asked, “Then who can be saved?” Our Lord replied, “The things which
are impossible with men are possible with God.” It does require resolution and decision and
sacrifice, but God is ready to supply all needed grace. His spirit can strengthen those who
turn to him in their conscious need and with a real desire for a higher life.

As the rich man moved away sorrowfully in his costly robes, Peter looked upon him with apparent
scorn, and turned to Jesus with the self-complacent remark, “Lo, we have left our own, and
followed thee.” The reply of Jesus was not intended to encourage men to follow him in hope
of gain. His salvation is a matter of grace. We are not to think that by any sacrifice of worldly
goods we can purchase eternal life. However, the tender words of the Master do remind us that
a rich recompense will be received for all that we may surrender in becoming his disciples.
Even in this present time one receives a hundredfold reward, not in literal kind but in experiences
which now satisfy the soul and “in the world to come eternal life.”

7. Jesus Again Foretelling His Death. Ch.

As Jesus moved southward through Perea, nearing the end of his last journey to Jerusalem, he
was accompanied by admiring multitudes, but his own heart was heavy with the knowledge of the
suffering that awaited him and he clearly saw before him the outline of the cross. Many of
his followers to-day share his experience in part; even in surroundings which all observers
envy, their hearts are crushed by secret sorrows and by the knowledge of approaching pain.

Those who then were nearest to him were quite unconscious of his thoughts or his need of sympathy.
Then for the third time Jesus clearly predicted his approaching death. He declared that his
sufferings were to be in accordance with written prophecy and now more clearly than ever he
described the details of all the anguish he must endure. He was to be “delivered up unto the
Gentiles” and therefore to be crucified, and with all the sickening accompaniments of mockery
and spitting and scourging, he was to be killed.

Such a clear vision of what awaited him enhances for us the revelation of his matchless heroism
as he moved forward with unfaltering tread, giving an inspiring example to each one who may
be asked to take up the cross and come after him.

Such knowledge reveals one who consciously was more than man, such a confidence that he was
fulfilling the prophecies of the inspired Scriptures shows that he regarded himself as the
Saviour of the world. Such a willingness to suffer demonstrates the fact that he believed his
atoning death to be an essential part of his redeeming work.

The grave, however, was by no means his goal. With absolute definiteness he declared that on
the third day he would rise again. This vision of triumph was in part the explanation of his
courage. It was in virtue of such a resurrection victory that he could be the Saviour of mankind.

His disciples, however, understood none of these things; with threefold
emphasis Luke describes their dullness of apprehension. They did not
believe that his death was necessary and for them the resurrection was not
even a dream. Their lack of expectation only made them more credible
witnesses of that resurrection when it did occur. However, would not a
clearer vision, unclouded by false notions of their own, have enabled them
to understand their Master and to bring some cheer to his lonely soul; and
does he not always desire his followers to accept his predictions with
implicit faith and to rest upon his promises with triumphant hope? 37 And they told him, that
    Jesus of Nazareth passeth by. 38 And he cried, saying, Jesus, thou
    son of David, have mercy on me. 39 And they that went before
    rebuked him, that he should hold his peace: but he cried out the
    more a great deal, Thou son of David, have mercy on me.

As for the last time Jesus was journeying through Jericho, he healed a blind man whom Mark
in his record names Bartimæus. This miracle was a proof of divine power and an expression of
human sympathy, but it was also a parable of the ability which Jesus alone has of giving sight
to the morally blind and of imparting that spiritual vision which is absolutely necessary if
men are to live in right relations to one another and to God. In certain minor details Luke’s
account differs from those of Matthew and Mark. The former mentions two blind men and agrees
with Mark in stating that the miracle occurred as Jesus was leaving the city. Possibly Mark
and Luke refer to the best known of the two men and Luke may designate the older of the two
towns which bore the name of Jericho. All agree, however, in picturing the pitiful condition
of the helpless man who because of his blindness was reduced to beggary and was a true symbol
of the misery to which one is brought by the lack of spiritual sight.

Then there is the picture of the obstacles to be overcome, of the doubts and difficulties that
lie in the way of those who seek to come under the healing influence of our Lord. “They that
went before rebuked him, that he should hold his peace.” Often do those who yearn for light
and healing hear words which dishearten and suggestions which lead to hopelessness and despair!

Again there is the picture of eager determination and of unshaken faith. “He cried out the
more a great deal, Thou son of David, have mercy on me.” He had been told that “Jesus of Nazareth”
was passing by. He, however, called him “Jesus, thou son of David.” He recognized the Prophet
of Nazareth as the promised Messiah, the Saviour of the world, and when rebuked for crying
to him for mercy, he continued steadfast in his faith and his confident trust that Jesus would
sympathize and heal.

Lastly, there is the picture of complete relief. The blind man was not disappointed. Jesus
said unto him, “Receive thy sight: thy faith hath made thee whole.” How many likewise have
found Christ able and willing to give them spiritual vision! Their eyes have been opened to
behold things unseen and eternal and they have been enabled to follow the Master with joyful
footsteps as they journey toward the celestial city where they will see the King in his beauty
and will be like him when they “see him even as he is.”

Such miracles of grace rejoice the hearts not only of those who are healed; they occasion gratitude
and joy to countless others also as they are assured of the sympathy and grace and divine power
of the Saviour. As Luke here states, “All the people, when they saw it, gave praise unto God.”

9. The Conversion of Zacchaeus. Ch. 19:1-10

    1 And he entered and was passing through Jericho. 2 And behold, a
    man called by name Zacchæus; and he was a chief publican, and he
    was rich. 3 And he sought to see Jesus who he was; and could not
    for the crowd, because he was little of stature. 4 And he ran on
    before, and climbed up into a sycomore tree to see him: for he was
    to pass that way.

“And he entered and was passing through Jericho,” a city famous alike for faith and unbelief.
“By faith the walls of Jericho fell down,” and in blind unbelief they were rebuilt and the
curse which had been pronounced came upon the defiant builder. As Jesus passed through the
city he was to witness faith and unbelief, the latter to be shown by multitudes, the former
by a single man named Zacchæus. This name signifies “holiness” but it was a poor designation
of the man. Those who knew him best called him a “sinner,” and they were probably right. “He
was a chief publican, and he was rich.” A man might be a publican and be honest, but he would
probably be poor. Zacchæus’ task was that of a taxgatherer, and when it is remembered that
these officials made their wealth by extortion and dishonesty, to say the least, it was suspicious
when a taxgatherer was rich.

“He sought to see Jesus who he was.” It may have been curiosity, but there was a certain eagerness
in his desire. He possibly had heard of the great Prophet who was so kind in his treatment
of publicans and sinners. However, he could not see Jesus “for the crowd, because he was little
of stature.” Obstacles often arise in the way of those whose attention is first turned toward
Christ. If, however, they are earnest in their desire, they are certain to learn more of him.
It has been said that Zacchæus was converted before he had reached the ground. There can be
no doubt that a great change came into his heart as he realized how fully Jesus knew him and
anticipated what the Saviour could do for him; and his faith and hope were manifest at once.
“He made haste, and came down, and received him joyfully.”

What did the crowd say? Exactly what the world always says when a man is turning to Christ
and seeking to begin a new life. Men always call to mind the dark past from which the rescued
man is turning. “They all murmured, saying, He is gone in to lodge with a man that is a sinner.”

What did Zacchæus say? What every man says who has found the grace which Christ bestows and
who realizes that a new life can begin only with repentance and resolution. “And if I have
wrongfully exacted aught of any man, I restore fourfold.” There can be little doubt that any
publican would find large opportunities for such restoration; and nothing more definitely indicates
true repentance than the desire to make amends for the past.

What did Jesus say? This is most important of all, “To-day is salvation come to this house,
forasmuch as he also is a son of Abraham.” By his faith the publican of Jericho showed himself
to be a true son of Abraham, the “father of the faithful.” His trust in Christ secured for
him that salvation which is offered to all, even to the lowest and most hopeless and despised.
“For the Son of man came to seek and to save that which was lost.”

10. The Parable of the Pounds. Ch. 14 But his citizens hated him,
    and sent an ambassage after him, saying, We will not that this man
    reign over us. 16 And the
    first came before him, saying, Lord, thy pound hath made ten
    pounds more. 17 And he said unto him, Well done, thou good
    servant: because thou wast found faithful in a very little, have
    thou authority over ten cities. 18 And the second came, saying,
    Thy pound, Lord, hath made five pounds. 19 And he said unto him
    also, Be thou also over five cities. 24 And he said unto them that stood by,
    Take away from him the pound, and give it unto him that hath the
    ten pounds. 25 And they said unto him, Lord, he hath ten pounds.
    26 I say unto you, that unto every one that hath shall be given;
    but from him that hath not, even that which he hath shall be taken
    away from him. 27 But these mine enemies, that would not that I
    should reign over them, bring hither, and slay them before me.

    28 And when he had thus spoken, he went on before, going up to
    Jerusalem.

Jesus felt impelled to deliver the parable of the Pounds because of the mistaken belief among
the crowds that on his arrival in Jerusalem he would establish his Kingdom. He well knew that
he was to be rejected and crucified, and that a long interval of time would elapse before his
return in triumph. In this parable he definitely predicted this rejection and warned the unbelieving
Jews of their peril. On the other hand he encouraged his disciples to wait with patience for
his return, to watch for his coming, and to be engaged diligently in his service, promising
to the faithful, abundant and gracious rewards.

This parable of the Pounds should be studied in connection with the parables of the Unprofitable
Servant, ch. 17:7-10, the Laborers in the Vineyard, Matt. 20:1-16, and the Talents, Matt. 25:14-30.
The first teaches that no reward can be claimed as a matter of merit; in view of all that the
Master has given us, even pouring out his life for our redemption, we never by the most faithful
service could begin to pay the debt we owe; even the most loyal devotion would be no ground
for claiming a reward.

The parable of the Laborers in the Vineyard likewise warns us against a mercenary spirit in
which we might serve the Master for the sake of a reward, bargaining for so much labor for
so much pay, jealous of those who may receive as much as ourselves, though deserving, as we
believe, less.

However, while no reward may be deserved, and while the hope of reward should not be the motive
for service, the Master has assured us that, in absolute grace and with perfect justice, rewards
will be granted to those who are found faithful when he returns. The parable of the Talents
teaches that while opportunities and abilities for the service of Christ may differ, those
who are equally faithful will receive equal rewards. The parable of the Pounds tells us that
when opportunities are the same, greater faithfulness will receive greater reward.

This latter parable was delivered, as Luke tells us, because Jesus “was nigh to Jerusalem,
and because they supposed that the kingdom of God was immediately to appear.” Jesus therefore
compared himself with a nobleman who went into a far country, “to receive for himself a kingdom,
and to return.” Jesus was always indicating the fact that there would be a long delay after
his ascension before he would return, and that meanwhile his followers should be faithful to
the opportunities granted them for serving their Master. In this parable Jesus pictured these
opportunities under the figure of pounds, that is, sums of money amounting to something like
sixteen dollars each. In comparison with a “talent” this was an insignificant sum. Our Lord
wished to suggest that to every one of his followers something is intrusted which may be used
for the advancement of his cause.

Jesus knew that the Jews were not only to reject him but were to continue in unbelief after
his departure; thus in the parable he stated that “his citizens hated him, and sent an ambassage
after him, saying, We will not that this man reign over us.” The main portion of the picture,
however, is concerned with the return of the nobleman and the reward of his servants. This
reward was proportioned to fidelity during the time of his absence. By way of example, one
who had so used his pound as to gain ten pounds was made the ruler over ten cities; and one
who had gained five, was appointed over five cities. The reward for service is thus shown to
be larger service. Faithfulness in that which is very small is a preparation for larger responsibilities
and more glorious tasks. This is true in the present, and the principle will be the same in
the future.

One man was found, however, who had made no use of his pound. He had kept it “laid up in a
napkin.” His excuse was that he feared his master and he said, almost boastfully, that he had
not lost what had been intrusted to him. He was giving back that which he had been given him.
The nobleman, however, properly rebuked this unfaithful servant in the very terms which he
himself had used. If the master was known to be so strict, the servant should have been prepared
to give a better account of his stewardship. It is true that one cause for unfaithfulness is
an ignorance of the true nature of our Lord. Some are really afraid to undertake Christian
service because they do not know, what the parable could not indicate, namely, that he who
intrusts us with opportunities and abilities will give us grace, if we seek to do our best
and with a real desire to advance the interests of our Lord, try to use the little which we
have. Thus the nobleman rebuked the unfaithful servant for not having done the least which
was possible. He could have placed the money in the bank and then if nothing more, the master
would have received the interest on the loan. There is always something which every servant
of Christ can do for him. There is never any real excuse for idleness and inactivity and failure
to achieve something in the cause of Christ.

The pound was taken from the unfaithful servant and given to him who had secured the ten pounds,
because our Lord wished to illustrate the truth that with our opportunities and privileges
and gifts, the principle, use or lose, always applies. The right employment of even small gifts
results in their enlargement, but failure to appreciate and employ that which we possess results
in its ultimate loss. “Unto every one that hath shall be given; but from him that hath not,
even that which he hath shall be taken away from him.”

The parable closes with a solemn warning to those who reject Christ. It is not only perilous
to be unfaithful in his service but pitiful to be found in the class of those who refuse to
acknowledge him as Lord. Jesus describes in these last words not only the destruction of Jerusalem,
but the penalty of all who share in rejecting his rule. “But these mine enemies, that would
not that I should reign over them, bring hither, and slay them before me.”

The time of his departure was at hand. The nation was about to reject him. 34 And they
    said, The Lord hath need of him. 35 And they brought him to Jesus:
    and they threw their garments upon the colt, and set Jesus
    thereon. 36 And as he went, they spread their garments in the way. 40 And he answered and said, I
    tell you that, if these shall hold their peace, the stones will
    cry out.

The story of Luke is never lacking in human interest, but no scene is more suffused with sentiment,
none more vivid with color, than that which pictures Jesus entering Jerusalem in triumph. We
see our Lord mounted as a king, surrounded by acclaiming multitudes, sweeping over the brow
of Olivet, while his attendant disciples spread their garments in the way and hail him as the
Messiah. We see him lamenting over the doomed city and hear the harsh tones of the rulers who
are plotting his death. With all these shouts of joy and sobs of grief and mutterings of malice,
surely no scene is so full of emotion and none can illustrate more strikingly the relation
between religious feeling and religious faith.

An appeal to the eye and ear and heart may awaken sentiment and prepare the way for the surrender
of the will. There is to-day a proper place for music and architecture and eloquence as aids
to devotion. In the case of the triumphal entry, Jesus planned every detail. He sent two disciples
to secure the colt on which he was to ride; he allowed the disciples to place on the colt their
garments, and as he rode toward the city he accepted the acclamations of the crowd. When the
Pharisees criticized Jesus for permitting such praise and arousing such excitement, he declared
that such homage to himself was not only proper but necessary, and that if the multitudes were
silenced the very stones would “cry out” to welcome and to honor him. Jesus was offering himself
as King for the last time, and therefore his offer was to be made in the most impressive way.
He appealed to the imagination. He stirred the emotions. He did not mean that he was to be
such a king as the people supposed; the borrowed colt, the garments of peasants, the banners
of leafy branches were not to be the permanent furnishings of a court. He wished to secure
the submission of their wills, the complete surrender of their lives, and therefore he made
this stirring, dramatic, emotional appeal to the multitudes. He knew that religious feeling
is an aid to religious faith.

However, religious feeling is not to be confused with religious faith. Emotion is no substitute
for conviction. Jesus was not deceived. As he caught sight of the sacred city and heard the
bitter criticism of the Pharisees, he realized the stubborn unbelief he was to encounter; he
saw his rejection and death and the consequent destruction of Jerusalem and he pronounced his
pathetic lament, “If thou hadst known in this day, even thou, the things which belong unto
peace!” He predicted the ghastly horrors of the coming siege and the desolation of Zion and
declared that it was due to inability to see that he had come as a Saviour and that his ministry
had been a gracious visitation which might have resulted in repentance and in continued life
for the nation. It is the sad, sad lament for what might have been.

Jesus entered the Temple and rebuked the rulers for allowing the house of God to be desecrated
by degrading traffic. As the story closes we see Jesus standing in the center of the scene,
on one hand the rulers plotting against his life, and on his other the multitudes hanging admiringly
upon his words. Only too soon the rulers were to persuade the crowds to cry out for his crucifixion,
and we are reminded that religious feeling unaccompanied by conviction may soon be chilled
into indifference and hate.

There were those, however, like the disciples, who never forgot this scene of triumph. Its
fuller meaning was appreciated in later years and as their trust in Christ strengthened, they
looked back with ever deeper emotions upon the experiences of that memorable day; for it is
true that religious feeling is after all a natural and inevitable consequence of religious faith.

B. The Question As To Authority. Ch. 8 And Jesus said unto them, Neither tell
    I you by what authority I do these things.

After his triumphal entry into the city, Jesus continued to be the popular idol of the multitudes
that thronged Jerusalem at the passover season. It was this popularity which delayed the designs
of the rulers, as they had determined to put Jesus to death. They must first discredit him
with the people. With this in view they sent a deputation from their chief court, the sanhedrin,
to entrap Jesus in his talk or to bring him into conflict with the Jewish or Roman rulers.
They challenged him to state by what authority he was receiving such honors as the Messiah,
or driving the traders from the Temple, or performing his miracles. Their question was framed
with subtle skill, “By what authority doest thou these things? or who is he that gave thee
this authority?” They placed Jesus in a dilemma; if he should claim that authority had been
delegated to him, then he might be accused of disloyalty and of schism, in supplanting the
recognized “authorities” of the Jewish state; if he should claim inherent divine authority,
as identified with God, he might be condemned for blasphemy.

Jesus silenced his enemies with a question which involved them in a counter dilemma: “The baptism
of John, was it from heaven, or from men?” They could not say “from heaven,” for they had rejected
John; they dared not say “from men,” for they feared the people by whom John was regarded as
a prophet. So they tried to escape by cowardly replying that they did not know. Agnosticism
is usually cowardly and deserving of little respect.

But Jesus did more than silence them; he answered them. His question was no irrelevant riddle
by which he met a difficulty and delayed the necessity of a reply. He definitely implied that
the authority of John was divine and that his own authority was the same; but as they were
afraid to deny the divine authority of John they were also powerless to deny that of Jesus;
and further he implied that if they had accepted the message of John, they would be prepared
to accept Jesus. It is true that if we are afraid to accept the logical conclusions of our
doubts and denials, we never can hope to discover truth.

Jesus further rebuked and exposed his enemies. When they said that they did not know, Jesus
knew, and they knew, and the crowds knew, that they were not honest; the Lord had laid bare
their hypocrisy; he had made it perfectly evident that the real question at issue was not authority
but obedience. The enemies of Jesus pretended that they wanted to know more of his credentials;
they really wanted to discredit and entrap him. The modern enemies of our Lord declare that
they want more proofs, more evidence; what they really lack is love for God and submission
to his will. Those who do not repent when John preaches, will not believe when Jesus offers
to save. The world needs to-day, not more proof of divine authority, but more obedience to
the divine will.

Jesus absolutely discredited his enemies in the sight of the people. They were the constituted
authorities in all matters civil and religious, and yet they were made to confess publicly
that they were not competent to judge a clear, familiar, important case relating to religious
authority. They really abdicated their position. They, therefore, were disqualified to pass
an opinion on the exactly parallel case of the authority of Jesus. Jesus had defeated them
with their own weapon. No wonder that subsequently, when on trial before such judges, he refused
to answer them a word. He had shown their incompetence, their insincerity, their unbelief.
Honest doubters are deserving of sympathy; but professed seekers after truth, who are unwilling
to accept the consequences of belief, should expect to receive no further light. An increasing
knowledge of divine realities is conditioned upon humble submission of the heart and the will
to what already has been revealed.

C. The Parable Of The Husbandmen. Ch.

    18 Every one that falleth on that stone shall be broken to pieces;
    but on whomsoever it shall fall, it will scatter him as dust.

To the malicious challenge of his enemies Jesus had already replied, claiming for himself divine
authority and condemning the rulers for their guilty unbelief. He now added a parable, more
clearly stating his claims and more solemnly rebuking these hostile rulers and pronouncing
judgment upon the nation they represented. He told the story of a householder who established
and equipped a vineyard and let it out to tenants. He lived at a distance and expected as rent
a certain portion of the vintage. When he sent for the fruit, however, his messengers were
abused and killed; at last his own son was sent and was slain. He determined to come and to
exact justice and to deliver his vineyard to tenants who were more worthy.

The parable was so plain that the enemies of Jesus perfectly understood its meaning. The householder
was his Father; the vineyard was Israel; the husbandmen were the rulers to whom the nation
had been intrusted; the servants were the prophets sent to summon the people to repent and
to render to God the fruits of righteousness; the son was Jesus himself, who thus claimed a
unique relation to God, distinct from the prophets and from all human messengers; the death
of the heir was his own approaching crucifixion; the return of the householder was the coming
visitation of divine judgment, the rejection of Israel, and the call of the Gentiles. It was
aside from the present purpose of Jesus to refer to the individual Jews who would accept him
and to the future conversion of the nation of which Paul wrote. He wished now to emphasize
his own rejection and the guilt and punishment of the nation.

D. The Question As To Paying Tribute. Ch. 20 And they
    watched him, and sent forth spies, who feigned themselves to be
    righteous, that they might take hold of his speech, so as to
    deliver him up to the rule and to the authority of the governor.
    21 And they asked him, saying, Teacher, we know that thou sayest
    and teachest rightly, and acceptest not the person of any, but
    of a truth teachest the way of God: 22 Is it lawful for us to give
    tribute unto Cæsar, or not? 23 But he perceived their craftiness,
    and said unto them, 24 Show me a denarius. Whose image and
    superscription hath it? And they said, Cæsar’s. 25 And he said
    unto them, Then render unto Cæsar the things that are Cæsar’s, and
    unto God the things that are God’s. 26 And they were not able to
    take hold of the saying before the people: and they marvelled at
    his answer, and held their peace.

The rulers had been defeated, discredited, and disgraced but they had not been discouraged.
In their first question they failed utterly to bring Jesus into any unlawful opposition to
the religious courts. They now attempted by a new question to draw from him an answer which
either would make him unpopular with the people or would bring him under the condemnation of
the civil ruler. They asked him a question relative to the payment of tribute to the Roman
Government. The more conservative Jews held that God was the ruler of Israel and that possibly
it was wrong to pay taxes to support a heathen state. The more liberal party sided with the
Herods, who owed their power to Rome. Therefore the enemies of Jesus sent to him representatives
of both parties, Pharisees and Herodians, so that if he should avoid offending one party he
would displease the other. They approached Jesus with the flattering assurance that he was
so truthful and courageous that he would not hesitate to express his true convictions; and
then they proposed their artful question: “Is it lawful for us to give tribute unto Cæsar,
or not?” Should Jesus say, “Yes”? Then he would cease to be a popular idol, for the people
loathed the hateful oppression of Rome. Should Jesus say, “No”? Then his enemies would hurry
him away to the Roman governor and the cross, as a traitor and a rebel. The dilemma seemed
complete; yet Jesus not only escaped the snare, but, in his reply, he enunciated a law for
all time. “Render unto Cæsar the things that are Cæsar’s, and unto God the things that are God’s.”

To make plain his meaning, Jesus first called for a Roman coin, and asked whose image and superscription
it bore. The reply, of course, was “Cæsar’s.” Jesus therefore declared that those who accept
the protection of a government and the privileges provided by a government, are under obligation
to support that government. Christianity never should be identified with any political party
or social theory; but Christians ever should take their stand for loyalty, for order, and for
law. The enemies of Jesus suggested a conflict of duties; he showed that there was perfect
harmony. He intimated, however, that there was danger of forgetting God, and our obligations
to him of trust, service, worship, love. The true basis for citizenship is devotion to God,
and no political theory or party allegiance can be taken as a substitute for loyalty to him.
The enemies of Jesus were answered and rebuked, and his followers were given guidance for all
the coming years.

E. The Question As To The Resurrection. Ch. 38 Now he is not the God of the
    dead, but of the living: for all live unto him. 39 And certain of
    the scribes answering said, Teacher, thou hast well said. 40 For
    they durst not any more ask him any question.

Jesus had foiled the scribes and the chief priests in their plan to entrap him in his public
teaching. He was now attacked by the Sadducees who were the priestly and most powerful party
among the Jews. They denied the immortality of the soul and believed neither in angels nor
in spirits; they represented the modern materialists. It is to be noted that the question with
which they approached Jesus was not one which referred only to immortality but specifically
to the resurrection of the body. They proposed the case of a woman married successively to
seven brothers from each of whom she was separated by death; and they asked, “In the resurrection
therefore whose wife of them shall she be? for the seven had her to wife.” They hoped that
Jesus would either deny the orthodox belief as to the resurrection or would make some statement
which would contradict the Law of Moses in accordance with which the successive marriages were
made. They implied that this accepted Law was inconsistent with the belief in a resurrection.

In his reply Jesus declared that in the resurrection life will be regulated by larger laws
than are known in this present age. Those who will share the glory of that age, and who will
experience the blessedness of “the resurrection from the dead” will be immortal in soul and
body. Marriage, which is now necessary for a continuance of the race, will no longer exist.
The relationships in that life will be higher than even the most sacred relationship of the
present life. Those who have a part in this resurrection will be “equal unto the angels,” not
in all particulars, but in the fact that their state will be deathless. In that larger sense
they will be “sons of God” and “sons of the resurrection,” for death will have lost its power
over them.

Such a reply should be carefully weighed by men of the present day who deny miracles and refuse
to believe in resurrection and immortality. Many beliefs which are now ridiculed because they
seem to contradict established laws of science will some day be vindicated by the discovery
of higher and more inclusive laws than are now known.

In his answer Jesus already had rebuked the Sadducees for denying the existence of angels.
He next established the fact of the resurrection by a quotation from the very Law on which
they had depended to show that resurrection was impossible. The latter was the question at
issue. The word “living,” as used by our Lord, indicates those who are enjoying a normal life,
not that of disembodied spirits, but of immortal spirits clothed with deathless bodies. Therefore
Jesus added, “for all live unto him.” In the mind and purpose of God all are to be raised from
the dead and to enjoy that complete and blessed existence which resurrection implies. The confident
expectation of such a future state is based on our relation to God. If he is truly our God
and we are his people, the triumph of death is not real and permanent but will be ended by
the glorious immortality of the body and of the soul.

F. The Question Of Jesus. Ch. 20:41-44

    41 And he said unto them, How say they that the Christ is David’s
    son? 42 For David himself saith in the book of Psalms,

      The Lord said unto my Lord,
      Sit thou on my right hand,
    43 Till I make thine enemies the footstool of thy feet.

    David therefore calleth him Lord, and how is he his son?

Jesus had defeated his enemies in debate. They had come to him with a series of crafty questions
designed to discredit him as a public teacher and to secure some ground for his arrest. To
each of these questions he had given a reply by which his foes had been unmasked and condemned.
He then asked them a question. It was intended not only forever to silence his foes, though
it accomplished this, for henceforth no man ventured to meet him in public discussion; nor
yet did Jesus desire further to humiliate his enemies. In the presence of the people he had
already shown them to be ridiculous, contemptible, impotent, and insincere. His real motive
was to ask a question, the answer to which would embody the chief of all his claims, namely,
the claim that he is divine. It was of supreme importance that this claim should be made at
exactly this time. He knew that the rulers had been unable to find a charge on which to arraign
him before either the ecclesiastical or the civil court. He realized that they would dare to
make no other attempt in public, but he clearly foresaw the fact that, through the treachery
of Judas, he would be arrested and, before both these courts, would be arraigned on the charge
of blasphemy. His enemies would accuse him of claiming to be not only the Messiah but also
divine. On this occasion, therefore, in the presence both of the rulers and the people, he
made the defense which never can be broken or forgotten as he definitely demonstrated from
Scripture that the Messiah was described by the inspired writers as a divine Being. All that
Jesus claimed for himself, as recorded in the Gospel of John, was included in the answer which
was implied by the question which he now asked. Even for the present day it involves the supreme
problem in the sphere of philosophy and religion. This problem concerns the person of Christ.
Is he to be regarded as Man or God, or at once God and Man? Where is he to be placed in the
scale of being; or, as Jesus voiced the problem, how could David speak of the coming Messiah
as both his son and his Lord? There was but one answer. There can be but one. The Messiah was
to be divine. The son of David is also the Son of God. The incarnation is the only solution
of our most serious difficulties in the realm of religious belief. By his question Jesus not
only silenced his enemies; he also showed their insincerity in condemning him to death and
their rejection of the inspired Scriptures in their unwillingness to believe the testimony
concerning the person of the Messiah. Jesus unquestionably claimed to be the divine Saviour
of the world. The ideal Man is also the incarnate God.

G. The Warning Against The Scribes. Ch.

As the long day of public controversy drew to its close, it was not strange that Jesus turned
to warn the people against these enemies who had been seeking to defeat him and who were determined
upon his death. These professed guides could not be followed safely. These rulers had shown
themselves to be unworthy of their place and power. The people must look elsewhere for true
teachers. They must find other men to interpret for them the will of God.

The scribes were the professional teachers of the day, the trained expositors of the Law. Most
of them were Pharisees. They were of all men the most bitter enemies of Christ; they were jealous
of his power; they were angered at his claims; and finally they had been goaded to desperation
by their humiliating defeat at his hands. Upon these men Jesus pronounced the most stern condemnation.
His words are recorded at length by Matthew. In the brief summary of the discourse made by
Mark and by Luke we find only a few short sentences which sketch three principal features in
the character of these unworthy leaders of religious thought. The first is their vanity, their
ambition for display and for high position, and their love of flattery. The second is their
cruel avarice, expressed by our Lord in the suggestive clause, “who devour widows’ houses.”
The third was their shameful hypocrisy; they are described as men who “for a pretence make
long prayers.” It has always been remarked that the most bitter denunciations of Jesus were
addressed to the men whose outward lives were most respectable and whose religious professions
were most loud. This does not mean, however, that open vice and flagrant sin are better than
selfish and proud morality; but it does remind us that great religious privileges and the possession
of revealed truth involve solemn responsibilities and that hypocrisy and pretense are abominations
in the sight of God.

H. The Widow’s Mites. Ch. 21:1-4

    1 And he looked up, and saw the rich men that were casting their
    gifts into the treasury. 2 And he saw a certain poor widow casting
    in thither two mites. 3 And he said, Of a truth I say unto you,
    This poor widow cast in more than they all: 4 for all these did of
    their superfluity cast in unto the gifts; but she of her want did
    cast in all the living that she had.

What a contrast this charming sketch supplies to the picture which Jesus drew of the Pharisees!
In the eyes of the world the service of the poor widow was meager and worthless, while the
gifts of the hypocrites were costly and great; in the eyes of the Lord their offerings were
comparatively worthless and she gave more than they all. As a matter of fact, she had brought
but two small coins, worth less than a half cent, but they were all that she had. With this
scene in mind we should be careful not to call our offerings “mites” unless they are all that
we possess; we should be encouraged, however, to know that our Lord looks upon the heart and
estimates the gift by the motive and the love and the sacrifice involved; above all, we should
be reminded that we can best measure our offerings not by what we give but by how much we keep.
The influence of the woman is still moving multitudes toward the treasury of the Lord. He saw
clearly before him a cross but on the distant horizon a throne. Again and again he had warned
the Jews that their rejection of him and of his call to repentance would result in the destruction
of Jerusalem and in the anguish of their race, and quite as frequently he had told his disciples
that while indeed he was to die and rise again, a long period of time would pass before he
would return in glory to establish his Kingdom. The great, final discourse relating to the
future was delivered at the close of his last day of public controversy and teaching. As Jesus
sat with his disciples on the slope of the Mount of Olives, as he looked westward and saw the
sun sinking behind the majestic buildings of the sacred city, he realized that in truth the
night was gathering over the nation, that his own day of earthly ministry was done, and that
the true dawning would not break for the world until the Son of righteousness should arise
in true glory, until he himself would return to fill the earth with the peace and joy and splendor
of his universal reign. He, therefore, told his disciples with much detail the story of the
approaching destruction of Jerusalem and of his own return after the long years of faithful
service and of eager waiting which were appointed for his followers.

This prophetic discourse of Jesus is difficult to interpret; first of all, because it is phrased
in figurative terms, the exact meaning of which is not always apparent. Again it appears that
we have only a partial report of the prophecies then spoken by our Lord; it is necessary to
compare the records of Matthew and Mark with the statements here given by Luke, and then to
remember that we have probably only a fraction of the whole discourse. In the third place,
it is evident that our Lord was describing not one event, but two. He was prophesying the literal
overthrow of the holy city by the armies of Rome, but he was using the colors of this tragic
scene to paint the picture of his own return in glory. So interwoven are these two series of
predictions that it is not always evident whether the reference is to the nearer or to the
more remote of these events. While we may note with some definiteness the general outline of
the prophecy and while there need be little doubt as to its two outstanding features, namely,
the destruction of the city and the return of our Lord, the study of this chapter should be
undertaken with humility, and our conclusions should be stated with caution and with reserve.
The result need not be bewilderment or despair; it should be encouragement and more confident
expectation of the coming of Christ and the ultimate triumph of his cause.

1. The Present Age. Ch. 8 And he said, Take heed that ye be not led astray: for
    many shall come in my name, saying, I am he; and, The time is at
    hand: go ye not after them. 16 But ye shall be delivered up even by
    parents, and brethren, and kinsfolk, and friends; and some of
    you shall they cause to be put to death. 19 In your patience ye shall win your souls. According to his
description the age will be characterized by the appearance of many
deceivers who will claim the allegiance of his followers and assume to
take the place of Christ. Furthermore, there will be wars and tumults but
by these believers are not to be terrified. It is always a temptation of
shallow minds to interpret every unusual event as a sign of the
approaching end of the world.

Furthermore, the followers of Christ must suffer bitter persecution and be brought before kings
and governors for his name’s sake. They must continue steadfast in their testimony. They need
not be troubled as to the exact form of their witness but must trust the unseen Master to give
them all needed wisdom as they speak boldly in his name.

Most distressing of all, they must suffer from the treachery of “parents and brethren, and
kinsfolk, and friends” and some of them must taste the bitter cup of martyrdom; they will be
hated of all men, yet their souls will not perish. By their steadfast endurance they will win
eternal salvation. It is true, the picture is one of great hardship and distress but its message
has encouraged sufferers who in all ages have been faithful in their testimony and have found
the comfort and inspiration which is possible for all as they look for the coming and Kingdom
of Christ.

2. The Destruction of Jerusalem. Ch. 21:20-24

    20 But when ye see Jerusalem compassed with armies, then know that
    her desolation is at hand.

As our Lord scanned the future he now fixed his eyes first of all upon that dreadful event
which in some of its features foreshadowed the end of that age which he had been describing.
On more than one occasion he had predicted the destruction of Jerusalem. He now declared that
the definite sign of the descending doom would be the siege of the city: “When ye see Jerusalem
compassed with armies, then know that her desolation is at hand.” He warned those within the
city to flee to the mountains and declared that those who were in the country should not turn
to the city for safety, because the days of vengeance will have come and the prophecies of
punishment upon the guilty nation will be about to be fulfilled. It would be difficult to recall
another scene of equally hideous carnage. It is estimated that a million Jews fell victims
to the slaughter and outrage of the soldiers under Titus, and that unnumbered thousands were
led as captives to Egypt and other lands.

Last of all Jesus predicted that Jerusalem would be “trodden down of the Gentiles, until the
times of the Gentiles be fulfilled.” The first phrase denotes something more than mere domination
and Gentile control; it indicates something of indignity and disgrace and humiliation and this
state of the holy city is to continue until “the times of the Gentiles” are fulfilled, which
probably means during all the ages of Gentile control, and further, during all the seasons
of grace in which the gospel is being preached to the Gentile world, indeed, until the return
of our Lord. “Gentiles” are plainly contrasted with Jews, and not with Christians. The mere
fact that the sacred city has passed into control of Christian powers is no proof that the
age is near its end; for this end there will be definite signs as Jesus himself proceeded to
declare. However, as one turns from this lurid picture of the destruction of the historic city,
and remembers how exactly these prophecies came to pass, it should be with a new confidence
in the further predictions made by Christ and with a new belief that the more significant events
of which he next proceeded to speak will be fulfilled likewise with exactness and in all their
promised glory.

3. The Coming of Christ. Ch.

Immediately before the return of our Lord, as the age draws to its close, there are to be certain
signs so definite, so startling, and so terrifying, that they will leave no doubt that the
predicted event is immediately to follow. It may be a time of distress for the impenitent but
for believers it will be a time of hope and expectation. When the signs of which Jesus spoke
“begin to come to pass,” then, according to the words of Jesus, his followers may hopefully
lift up their heads to greet their Deliverer, for their redemption will be at hand. The coming
of Christ will be an event unexpected by the world, but Christians will be so definitely warned
that they can be looking for the promised deliverance and for the predicted glory.

4. The Encouragement to Hope and Vigilance. Ch. 31 Even so ye also,
    when ye see these things coming to pass, know ye that the kingdom
    of God is nigh. 36 But watch ye at every season, making supplication, that
    ye may prevail to escape all these things that shall come to pass,
    and to stand before the Son of man.

In speaking of his return in glory, Jesus mentioned certain definite signs by which his followers
will know that his coming is near. To explain more clearly the purpose of these “signs,” Jesus
spoke a brief parable in which he compared their appearance to the foliage put forth in the
springtime which becomes a certain harbinger of the summer. Many have supposed that Jesus indicated
Israel by his reference to “the fig tree” and have concluded that a revival of Judaism and
a return of the Jews to Palestine will be a certain indication that the present age is drawing
to its close. Whatever may be predicted elsewhere concerning the Jews, there is no such reference
here, for Jesus not only said, “Behold the fig tree,” but also, “all the trees.” His meaning
is perfectly plain. He did not refer to nations under the figure of trees, but he declared
that as the foliage is a sure precursor of summer, so the signs of which he spoke are a certain
indication of his imminent return.

Jesus further awakened the expectation of his hearers by the statement, “This generation shall
not pass away, till all things be accomplished.” It is improbable, as again many have supposed,
that Jesus referred to the Hebrew race by the term “this generation.” The words are almost
certainly to be interpreted in their usual significance and “all things” to be “accomplished”
refers to the destruction of Jerusalem regarded as the type and symbol of the return of Christ.
These two events are thus closely related in this prophetic discourse and the literal fulfillment
of the first gives to believers a more confident assurance of the certain occurrence of the
latter: “Heaven and earth shall pass away: but my words shall not pass away.” The hope that
our Lord will come is not based on human conjectures, but on his own unfailing predictions.
All that is material and temporal may cease to exist, but his promises are eternal.

In view of such glorious prophecies the heart of the Christian is ever to be set upon the gracious
realities relating to the coming of the Master. The followers of Christ must be on their guard
lest they be overcome by the influences which Jesus described as characterizing the days immediately
preceding his return. There will be temptation to self-indulgence and indifference and absorption
in worldly cares. Believers are warned to be on their watch lest the coming of Christ overtake
them unexpectedly, as indeed it will come upon others. They are urged to watch and to pray
that they may be able to escape from those judgments which will break upon a guilty world,
and may be counted worthy to take their places in the glorious Kingdom of their Lord.

5. The Historic Statement. Ch.

Luke closes his account of the discourse delivered by Jesus in reference
to his return by a statement which summarizes the general conditions which
marked the final events of Jesus’ earthly ministry. He states that Jesus
passed his days teaching in the Temple and spent the nights under the open
skies on the slopes of the Mount of Olives, and that the people were so
eager to hear him that they resorted to the Temple early each morning.
This statement is rather in the nature of a review. It marks a transition
in the narrative. In reality, Jesus seems to have returned to the city
only once more, when he was arrested and led forth to die. Luke prepares
us for these last events. The story has reached its climax. 4 And he went away, and communed with
    the chief priests and captains, how he might deliver him unto
    them.

The statement that “the feast of unleavened bread drew nigh, which is called the Passover,”
forms a fitting preface to the story of the passion, for the Hebrew feast commemorated the
deliverance of Israel when the angel of death passed over the homes which were marked with
blood, and now a greater redemption was to be purchased by the blood of Christ, and those who
would accept his salvation were to put away sin from their lives, even as leaven was excluded
from Hebrew homes during all the days of the feast.

The rulers of the Jews had already determined upon the death of Jesus. Their problem lay in
his immense popularity. They were determining to delay until after the feast, when the great
crowds would have left the city, when suddenly help came to them from a most unexpected quarter.
Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve immediate followers of Jesus, offered to betray his Master
into the hands of the rulers at such a time and place as they desired, namely, “in the absence
of the multitude.” Of course the chief priests and the officers of the Temple guard “were glad”
and contracted to pay the money demanded by the traitor for his treachery. Luke states that
Judas acted under the direction of Satan. We are not to conclude, however, that he was a demoniac
or that he lacked control of his faculties. His act was deliberate, unsolicited, and without
excuse. The explanation is that he long had been cherishing his lust for gold. He had listened
to the suggestion of Satan and now he yielded himself to his foul service. The alarming truth
is that the treachery of Judas was not the act of a unique monster, but only an example of
what, finally, may be done by any man who, in daily fellowship with Jesus, does not renounce
his one besetting sin. To resist continually the gracious influence of the Saviour is to fall
the more rapidly under the complete power of Satan.

B. The Last Supper. Ch. 9 And they said unto
    him, Where wilt thou that we make ready? 10 And he said unto them,
    Behold, when ye are entered into the city, there shall meet you a
    man bearing a pitcher of water; follow him into the house
    whereinto he goeth. 19 And he took bread, and when he
    had given thanks, he brake it, and gave to them, saying, This is
    my body which is given for you: this do in remembrance of me.

    24 And there rose also a contention among them, which of them was
    accounted to be the greatest. 25 And he said unto them, The kings
    of the Gentiles have lordship over them; and they that have
    authority over them are called Benefactors. And they said, Nothing. 38
    And they said, Lord, behold, here are two swords. And he said unto
    them, It is enough.

The last meal of which Jesus partook with his disciples was a passover feast, and it was the
occasion of the establishment of that sacrament which is known as the Lord’s Supper. The passover
called to mind a national deliverance in the past and pointed forward to a greater deliverance
to come, which was effected by the death of Christ. The Lord’s Supper points us backward to
the great redemption he achieved by his atoning death, and forward to the fuller redemption
he will accomplish in his return. The “Last Supper” may rightly be reviewed in connection with
the Christian sacrament, and the story here recorded may intimate to us how this sacrament
may be most helpfully observed.

1. It must be for us a time of retirement. So far as possible we must exclude all distracting
thoughts and fix our minds upon Christ and his redeeming love. Jesus made such provision for
his disciples. He sent Peter and John to the city to prepare a room in which he might partake
of the passover with his disciples, but he was careful to provide against any possible interruption.
He did not mention to the disciples the place of meeting. Had he done so, Judas would have
disclosed the place to the enemies who would have arrested Jesus in the midst of the supper.
According to the account of the other evangelists, it seems that after the passover feast had
been eaten and before Jesus established his memorial supper, he dismissed Judas from the circle.
Surely it must be our endeavor to shut out from our hearts all traitorous and intrusive thoughts,
that during the sacred service we may be consciously alone with our Lord.

2. It is to be a time of communion. Our Lord had eagerly looked forward to those hours to be
spent with his disciples in unbroken fellowship. He had much to tell them. He knew it was to
be a season of tender farewell, and he wished to strengthen them by messages of cheer and of
hope. Probably in the whole Bible there are no chapters more familiar, more tender, more helpful,
than those written by John containing the words spoken by our Lord in the upper room on the
occasion of this Last Supper. To those whose hearts are prepared, the unseen Lord is surely
present and ready to speak, through the appointed symbols and by his Spirit, truths which will
inspire strength and joy.

3. It is to be a season of gratitude. The sacrament has often been called the “Eucharist,”
the service of “thanksgiving,” for we then call to mind the infinite benefits secured for us
by the atoning death of our Lord. This is the supreme purpose of the feast. Jesus stated this
clearly when establishing it; the bread was to call to mind his body broken for us, and the
wine was to be a symbol of his blood, which as he said to his disciples, was to be poured out
for them. This supper is therefore to be a memorial of redeeming grace; it is to show forth
the Lord’s death, as he himself said, “This do in remembrance of me.”

4. It is to be a time of hope. Even under the shadow of the cross our Lord pointed his disciples
to the glory of his throne; while their hearts were torn by the thought of separation, he reminded
them of a reunion when they would eat and drink together “in the kingdom of God.” He declared
that they were to have a time of temptation, but if they suffered with him, they would also
reign with him. “I appoint unto you a kingdom, even as my Father appointed unto me, that ye
may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom.” Thus the communion season is a time when we especially
look forward to glad reunions with those who have passed on before. We cheer our hearts with
visions of coming glory. Under the darkest shadows we look for the opening skies and for the
return of Christ; we “proclaim the Lord’s death till he come.”

5. It is a time of consecration. While the disciples were seated at the table they were disputing
as to which of them was greatest. Our Saviour gave them a memorable example when he stooped
down and washed their feet, and then most impressively he explained to them the character of
true greatness and showed that its essence lay in service; to quote his own words, “He that
is the greater among you, let him become as the younger; and he that is chief, as he that doth
serve.” As we turn from the table of our Lord it should ever be with a desire to go forth in
his name and to do anything in our power to serve our fellow men, and to follow in his footsteps
who came “not to be ministered unto but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many.”

6. It should be a time of humility, when we realize anew our weakness and our dependence upon
Christ and his sustaining grace. Jesus found it necessary to warn his disciples concerning
their coming temptations and trials, and particularly to foretell the fall of Peter. Turning
to the impulsive, affectionate, fickle disciple, who seems to have been the leader of the apostolic
band, he told him that Satan had desired to have the disciples, to sift them as wheat, but
that Jesus himself had made special prayer for Peter that his faith should not fail, even though
Jesus foresaw that for a time his courage would give way and that he would deny his Master.
He urged Peter, however, to repent after his fall and to encourage his fellow disciples. Every
such disloyalty gives pain to our Lord, but if our hearts are really yielded to him, our faults
will be followed by true repentance. If we really trust in him, he is ready to pardon; as he
prayed for Peter, so he is praying for us; though we at times stumble, he will not allow us
utterly to fall. He is able to save “to the uttermost ... seeing he ever liveth to make intercession”
for us.

7. This should be a time of new resolution. We should be humble and trustful in view of past
and of possible future failures, but we should determine to stand firmly in the strength which
the Master supplies. He told his followers in the upper room of the changed conditions which
they were to meet when he had been taken from them. The enemies who would take his life would
surely not treat his disciples with kindness. He assured them that they were now to be left
more to their own resources and that they were to meet with the most bitter hostility. He even
suggested that it would be necessary for each one to buy a sword. They took his words with
absurd literalness and they said, “Lord, behold, here are two swords.” It was with sad irony
that Jesus replied, “It is enough.” Of course, he did not mean that his followers are to use
violence or are to extend the gospel by means of force. He only wished us to be warned and
to resolve anew that in the spiritual conflict which awaits us we shall be true to him as loyal
soldiers of the cross. We go forth to battle, but on some brighter morrow we shall be seated
with him at a heavenly feast with banquet and song.

C. The Agony In Gethsemane. Ch.

From the quiet fellowship in the upper room Jesus with his disciples, under the shadow of the
night, went forth to the Garden of Gethsemane, a favorite resort on the slope of the Mount
of Olives, and he there experienced that unequaled anguish of soul which is commonly known
as his “agony.” To enter the sacred privacy of that scene even in imagination seems to be an
intrusion, and yet some glimpses have been revealed for our instruction and encouragement as
his disciples.

There can be no doubt that this distress which seized him was due to his clear vision of the
death he was to endure on the following day; and this very agony adds beyond measure to the
meaning and the mystery of that death. For any sensitive soul to shrink from pain and anguish
is but natural and pardonable; yet if Jesus suffered such incomparable agony simply in view
of physical torture, he was less heroic than many of his followers have been. If, however,
in the hour of death, he was to be so identified with sin as to become the Redeemer of the
world; if he was “to give his life a ransom for many;” if his experience as the Lamb of God
was to be absolutely unique; if he was to endure the hiding of his Father’s face, then we can
understand why it was that in the dark hour of anticipation his soul was sorrowful “even unto
death.” The agony of our Lord must never be supposed to reflect upon his human heroism; it
is rather a proof of his divine atonement. The “cup” which Jesus was asked to drink consisted
of death as “the Bearer of sin.”

In this hour of most bitter trial Jesus found relief in prayer. He had come to Gethsemane that
he might be alone with God. He had exhorted his disciples to follow his example. When the agony
most fiercely gripped his lonely heart he still prayed and he was heard. The cup was not removed,
but “There appeared unto him an angel from heaven, strengthening him.” He was given grace to
drain the cup to its very dregs and death lost its sting and the grave its terror. He was fitted
for perfect sympathy with those who are called upon to face the mystery of “unanswered prayer.”
“He became unto all them that obey him the author of eternal salvation.”

Jesus prayed in faith; and the very essence of such believing prayer is the willingness to
obey. This was the petition which comes to us as an example, “Nevertheless not my will, but
thine, be done.” He won his victory by complete submission to the will of his Father. Henceforth
there was no more struggle. He turned with unfaltering step to meet betrayal and agony and
death. The hour struck and he was ready. “He was well content.”

D. The Arrest Of Jesus. Ch.

The manner in which Judas concluded his foul crime was in perfect keeping with its essential
baseness. He led a multitude armed with swords and clubs into the Garden where his Master was
wont to retire for prayer, and there betrayed him with a kiss, a sign which had been agreed
upon in order that, in the deep shadows, one of the disciples might not be mistaken for the
Master and arrested in his place. A kiss was a usual sign of friendship, but the manner of
Judas and the rebuke of Jesus indicate that it was given with a false semblance of deep affection
and was thus the more repulsive to the Lord. Acts of disloyalty to Christ are even more distressing
to him in surroundings which are sacred and when committed by those who have made loud protestations
of love.

The fearless composure of the Master is now contrasted with the conduct of his followers. They
asked whether they should defend him with the sword, and before he could reply, Peter rashly
smote the servant of the high priest and cut off his right ear. To this act Jesus made reply,
“Suffer ye them thus far;” the exact meaning is not certain, but probably he was addressing
his disciples to prevent further violence. He then touched the ear of the servant and healed
him. Only Luke, “the beloved physician,” mentions this “unique miracle of surgery.” The incident
has its message for disciples in all ages. Violence and cruelty in the defense of the cause
of Christ misrepresent him to the world. The act of Peter gave countenance to charges which
would be preferred against Jesus, and further resistance would have compromised the position
of his Lord. However well intended, such rash defenses weaken the cause they are designed to
promote.

Jesus turned to rebuke his enemies and resented the fact that they had come against him as
against a robber with swords and clubs. He reminded them that daily he had taught in public.
Their coming with violence, in secrecy; and under the cover of night, was a proof that the
arrest was false and that it could not be justified. There had been abundant opportunities
during many days to seize him in public when he was unprotected. Their present course bore
its own condemnation; but he added mournfully, “This is your hour, and the power of darkness.”
In the mystery of his providence God was allowing this iniquity. He was giving this temporary
authority to the forces of evil. It was to be a brief hour, but those who willingly put it
to such a use would incur eternal condemnation. Nothing is more solemn than the possibility
of using for evil ends the liberty allotted us of God.

E. Peter’s Denial. Ch. 55 And when
    they had kindled a fire in the midst of the court, and had sat
    down together, Peter sat in the midst of them. 62 And he went
    out, and wept bitterly.

Peter really loved Jesus and his faith in him never failed; but in the hour of trial, which
Jesus had predicted, Peter lost courage and denied his Lord. His sin, however, was unlike that
of Judas. The latter was the final step in a downward course. The former was an act of cowardice
in a career of moral development which resulted in blessing and service to all the followers
of Christ.

The fall of Peter may be traced to his self-confidence. When he protested that he would be
true to Christ, even though all should forsake him, he was sincere and expressed the true feeling
of his heart, but he betrayed his pride. The immediate result was his failure to obey the Master
and to watch and pray as he had been bidden; and consequently he was surprised and stunned
by the arrest of Jesus, and like the other disciples, after a rash stroke in his defense, he
forsook Jesus and fled. He followed Jesus to the palace of the high priest but hoped to conceal
his discipleship and to be regarded as one of the excited crowd.

Every follower of Christ is in mortal danger when confident of his moral strength and especially
when at the same time he is ashamed to be publicly known as a disciple, and most of all when
he feels, as Peter probably felt, that confessed loyalty to Christ can under the circumstances
be of no special help to his Lord. At such a time when the cause of Jesus seemed hopeless,
when the courage of Peter was gone, when he was wearied by the long night of sleeplessness,
when cold and lonely, the unexpected attack was made and Peter suffered his tragic defeat.

It may be easy to point the finger of scorn at the great apostle, but there are few followers
of Christ who at times of less severe testing have not as truly denied their Lord, by word
or deed, with cowardice and deceit and passion. Three times Peter repeated his denial and then
he heard the crowing of a cock. The incident was insignificant in itself, but it recalled the
word of his Master; it made Peter conscious of his disgrace but it called him to himself, and
then as he turned toward the palace, for a moment he caught sight of his Lord. We may be unable
to conjecture what was expressed in the face of Jesus as at that moment he “looked upon Peter.”
There may have been something of rebuke, but probably there was more of unutterable sorrow
and of tender sympathy. We read that as “Peter remembered the word of the Lord, ... he went
out, and wept bitterly.” Surely these were tears of repentance and they prepared the way for
pardon and for peace. To many a fallen follower of Christ there has come some minute providence
recalling hours of glad fellowship and messages of solemn warning, and the heart has been turned
toward the Master, and true repentance has been felt in realizing the pain which the disloyalty
has brought to the loving Lord.

The consciousness has brought bitter tears and hours of regret and of anguish, but they have
been followed by a brighter morning, by a meeting with the risen Christ, by a new confession
of love, by words of peace, and by a truer life of deeper devotion to his cause.

F. Jesus Before The Jewish Rulers. Ch. 65 And many other things spake they against him,
    reviling him. But he said unto them, If I tell you, ye will not
    believe: 68 and if I ask you, ye will not answer.

After Jesus had been denied by Peter, he was grossly insulted and abused by his captors. He
was mocked and beaten and reviled. Those responsible for these indignities were the Jewish
rulers, the most cultured and refined and professedly religious men of their day; but the beast
within man is more powerful than we commonly suppose. When Christ is rejected, when his teachings
are despised, when his Spirit is opposed, then it is only a question of time and of occasion
when hatred or malice or lust or anger awaken in man the passions and ferocity of the brute.

When the morning dawned, Jesus was led away to be arraigned formally before the sanhedrin,
the supreme ecclesiastical court of the Jews. He was supposed to be on trial for his life;
in reality the council was being judged, and in its guilt the entire nation was involved. The
rulers convicted themselves of prejudice, dishonesty, and malice. They did not seek to learn
the truth that justice might be done; they sought to find some evidence on which Jesus might
be condemned.

When every attempt to convict Jesus had failed, they finally charged him in the words: “If
thou art the Christ, tell us.” Jesus’ reply shows how fully he appreciated their blind hatred
and their unwillingness to be just; he told them that no statement he might make would be believed,
and that no explanation or defense he might offer would be accepted; nevertheless, he would
answer their question, with the statement that his exaltation to the place of divine power
was about to take place. Then they asked him directly, “Art thou then the Son of God?” He answered
with all distinctness, “Ye say that I am.” Then they at once decreed that he was worthy of
death. They had prejudged the case. They were unwilling to consider whether his claim to be
the Son of God was true; they only wished to be sure that he made the claim. When they had
made sure of this, they agreed that he must die as a blasphemer. Their logic was so far true.
There is no other alternative. In the presence of Christ there can be no neutrality. Either
he was an impostor who deserves our contempt, or else he is the divine Son of God whom we must
worship and obey. Every soul must choose between the sanhedrin and the Church.

G. Jesus Before Pilate. Ch. 5 But they were
    the more urgent, saying, He stirreth up the people, teaching
    throughout all Judæa, and beginning from Galilee even unto this
    place. 6 But when Pilate heard it, he asked whether the man were a
    Galilæan. 9 And he
    questioned him in many words; but he answered him nothing. 16 I will therefore chastise him, and release him. 18 But
    they cried out all together, saying, Away with this man, and
    release unto us Barabbas—19 one who for a certain insurrection
    made in the city, and for murder, was cast into prison. 24 And Pilate
    gave sentence that what they asked for should be done. 25 And he
    released him that for insurrection and murder had been cast into
    prison, whom they asked for; but Jesus he delivered up to their
    will.

The Jews had been deprived by their Roman conquerors of the right to inflict capital punishment.
When, therefore, their chief council had decided that Jesus was worthy of death, the rulers
brought him to Pilate, the Roman governor, that he might confirm their sentence and execute
the cruel penalty of crucifixion. The trial before Pilate developed into a disgraceful contest
between the murderous and determined Jewish rulers and the weak and vacillating Roman governor,
who was at last compelled to act contrary to his conscience and his desire and to submit his
will to that of the subjects whom he detested.

Luke gives only a bare outline of the story, which is sketched best by the apostle John. Enough,
however, is given to show the infamous baseness of the Jews and the futile endeavors of Pilate
to avoid the judicial murder which he finally committed. The Jewish rulers had asked Pilate
to pronounce sentence without hearing the charge; this Pilate properly refused to do. When
the accusation was made, Luke shows most clearly how craftily the decision of the Jewish court
was perverted, and how forcibly the false charge was presented. Jesus had been convicted of
claiming to be the divine Messiah. It was the claim of deity, and thus of blasphemy, on which
he was condemned. The Jews knew that this would make no impression on Pilate. However, the
office of Messiah did imply rule and authority, and therefore the claim of Jesus was distorted
into a political offense and he was charged with sedition, with forbidding tribute to Cæsar,
and with claiming to be a king.

How absurd all these accusations were, Pilate soon learned; he probably was not a little suspicious
of the sudden zeal for their Roman tyrants shown by these rebellious Jews. However, he lacked
the courage of his convictions; he declared Jesus to be innocent, but fearing to offend the
rulers and the crowds whom they had won to their will, he hesitated to release Jesus. That
was a fatal step; the only thing to do is to act with decision and promptness as soon as one
sees what is right. It is surely true in matters of conscience that “he who hesitates is lost.”

Then Pilate did what all weak men are apt to do: he attempted to avoid making a decision; he
tried to shift the responsibility; he learned that Jesus was from Galilee, and so Pilate sent
Jesus to be judged by King Herod, within whose realm Galilee lay. Herod was then in Jerusalem,
and he was eager to see Jesus, of whom he had heard so much, and he hoped that his curiosity
might be gratified by seeing Jesus perform some miracle. However, when appearing before Herod,
Jesus refused even to answer him by a single word. Jesus has a message for every penitent,
and a miracle for every believer; but for the murderer of John and for the shallow, sinful
profligate there is only silence and contempt.

To wreak upon Jesus a petty revenge, Herod mocked Jesus by clothing him with royal apparel,
and sent him back thus arrayed to Pilate. It was a cruel jest, but it was an acquittal of Jesus
as guilty of no political offense. Thus Pilate was forced to act as judge; others cannot decide
for us questions of conscience. When compelled to act, Pilate attempted a second maneuver familiar
to all weak souls; he proposed to compromise. He would do what was wrong but he would avoid
the crime of murder. He offered to scourge Jesus, whom he declared to be absolutely innocent,
or to release him as a notable criminal, as one such was usually released at this feast. On
the one hand, he would be subjecting Jesus to the most agonizing bodily torture; on the other,
he would brand Jesus as a malefactor who had deserved death. Compromise in a case of conscience
is always a sign of weakness, and the enemy is sure to press his advantage. As the rulers saw
Pilate yielding thus far, they asked for the release of a notorious murderer by the name of
Barabbas; and as they saw Jesus coming forth from the scourging, torn and bleeding, they cried
out for his life, “Crucify him, crucify him.” As Pilate hesitated, the rulers used their most
deadly weapon; they suggested that they would report Pilate to the emperor as shielding a political
revolutionist; they would imperil the position and life of the governor. This attack Pilate
could not withstand; when some personal loss was involved conscience was no longer to be considered.
He decided to do what he knew to be wrong; he “gave sentence that what they asked for should
be done;” and so doing he placed himself near the head of that long list of moral cowards who
share his eternal infamy for fearing to do the right.

The degradation of the Jewish rulers was even greater. With all their knowledge of the moral
law, they who professed to be special representatives of God put to death his Son, and chose
a murderer instead of the Saviour. To the tragedy of such a choice Luke refers with horror
in the only personal comment he makes upon the scene. V. 25. Are not thousands, however, making
that same choice to-day? There can be no neutral ground; indecision is impossible: one must
choose either Barabbas or Christ.

H. The Crucifixion. Ch.

    27 And there followed him a great multitude of the people, and of
    women who bewailed and lamented him. 34 And Jesus said, Father, forgive
    them; for they know not what they do. And parting his garments
    among them, they cast lots. 35 And the people stood beholding. 38 And
    there was also a superscription over him, THIS IS THE KING OF THE
    JEWS.

The Gospel narratives spare us the distressing details of the crucifixion; this was the most
cruel and agonizing form of death; but the facts are written with surprising delicacy and reserve.
As Jesus was being led from the city a certain Simon of Cyrene was pressed into the service
of bearing his cross. The cause of this action is purely a matter of conjecture. Its result
was to give Simon immortal fame and apparently to secure for him eternal salvation; for it
seems that this experience, and the knowledge of Christ gained at Calvary, resulted in the
conversion of Simon and his household, Mark 15:21; Rom. 16:13. In a figure, he was the first
of that long line of men and women who have taken up the cross and followed Christ. Of course
this is a mere symbol, and the actual contrasts are vital. In reality no one can share the
burden of the cross which our Saviour bore. His sufferings, and his alone, made atonement for
sin. Then again no one can be compelled to take up the cross. There are burdens in life which
cannot be evaded but one can refuse the cross. It is a type of the voluntary suffering endured
for the sake of Christ; it is a symbol of the complete sacrifice of self and the complete submission
to his will which is necessary for all who share in the redeeming benefits of his death.

Luke alone records the incident of the women who, wailing and lamenting, followed Jesus out
of the city. It is quite fitting that in this Gospel, in which womanhood is so exalted, a place
should be found for this picture. It is not to be supposed that these were the loyal friends
who had followed Jesus on his journeys and helped to supply his needs; these were rather residents
of Jerusalem whose hearts were bleeding with sorrow for the loving Prophet who was being led
forth to an agonizing death. Our Lord turned to these women with a message of sympathy and
told them that they were not to weep for him but for themselves and their children. He was
not rebuking them for their compassion; he rather meant to indicate that while his sufferings
were pitiful, their own were more worthy of tears, for they were to be even more intense. He
had in mind the destruction of the city due to its impenitence and made certain by its rejection
of the Redeemer. Jesus declared that the days would come when childlessness would be a ground
for congratulation because of the universal distress. He predicted that the horror would be
so great that men would call upon the mountains to fall on them and the hills to cover them,
preferring such forms of death to the torments which threatened from the armies of Rome. Jesus
added a proverb, the force of which is evident even though its exact application may not be
clear: “For if they do these things in the green tree, what shall be done in the dry?” In other
words, if the sufferings of Christ were so great, what would be the sufferings of the Jews!
If the Romans were putting to death him whom they regarded as innocent, what would they do
to the inhabitants of the rebellious and hated city? It is quite in accordance with the character
of Luke to note how Jesus, in this very hour of his anguish, thought rather of others than
of himself and pronounced this prophesy, not in resentment, but in infinite tenderness and pity.

While the actual sufferings of the crucifixion are not described, Luke tells us of the cruel
mockery to which Jesus was subjected. He states that two malefactors were crucified with Jesus,
“one on the right hand and the other on the left.” This was evidently designed to add to the
disgrace and humiliation of his cruel death. The place of the crucifixion was called “The skull,”
probably because it was a bare, rounded hill located outside the city gates.

Of the seven words spoken by Jesus on the cross, Luke records three, all of them characterized
by love and trust. The first is found in no other Gospel. As Jesus tasted the first bitterness
of his anguish he was heard to pray, “Father forgive them; for they know not what they do.”
He did not have in mind simply the soldiers who were involuntary instruments of his death,
but rather the Jews who had not fully recognized the enormity of their crime. For them Jesus
felt no hatred in his heart. He yearned for their repentance and their salvation. This prayer
was a revelation of the matchless grace and mercy of this ideal Man. Luke adds the details
of the mockery to which the other evangelists likewise refer. The crowds stood gazing upon
the Sufferer but the rulers and the soldiers cruelly mocked him; the former scoffed at him
saying, “He saved others; let him save himself.” In reality, had he saved himself, he never
could have saved others. He died for the very men who were deriding him, to make possible their
salvation. The soldiers made sport of him by casting lots for his garments and by offering
him drink and hailing him as “King of the Jews.” This last title had been placed on the cross
above the head of Jesus. It was put there by Pilate in bitter irony. It was his way of taking
revenge upon the rulers who, contrary to his conscience, had compelled him to put to death
an innocent Man. In place of this superscription the eye of faith sees another, “Behold, the
Lamb of God, that taketh away the sin of the world!”

I. The Penitent Thief. Ch. 23:39-43

    39 And one of the malefactors that were hanged railed on him,
    saying, Art not thou the Christ? save thyself and us. 42 And he said, Jesus, remember me when
    thou comest in thy kingdom. 43 And he said unto him, Verily I say
    unto thee, To-day shalt thou be with me in Paradise.

This story which enshrines for us the second saying of our Lord upon the cross has often been
regarded as one of the most significant narratives in the Gospels: first, because it gives
us such a picture of the unique person of Christ; here was a dying man who at the same time
was a forgiving God. Then, here is a picture of the transforming power of Christ who in an
instant of time changed a robber into a saint. Most of all, we have here a message of the conditions
of salvation which are ever the same, namely, repentance and faith. The first of these conditions
is strikingly illustrated from the fact that the repentant thief was thinking of God and remembering
that it was against a divine Being that he had sinned. Of this fact he reminded his companion,
intimating that they might properly fear him into whose august presence they were so soon to
be ushered. It is the very essence of repentance to regard sin, not as a mistake or a weakness,
or as an injury to men, but as rebellion and insult against God. His penitence was further
shown in his recognition that the penalty which he was suffering was just, and in his recognition
of the innocent sufferings of Christ.

His faith was as remarkable as his repentance. He saw in the bleeding, dying Sufferer, One
who is yet to return as universal King, and to him he addressed his prayer: “Jesus, remember
me when thou comest in thy kingdom.” We do not know the source of such faith. The robber may
have heard part of the trial of Jesus; he did hear him praying for his enemies; but whatever
gave rise to his belief and trust, he regarded Jesus as a Saviour and Lord who was yet to reign
and who could bring him to eternal glory. This story thus reveals to us the truth that salvation
is conditioned upon repentance and faith. However, it contains other important messages also.
It declares that salvation is independent of sacraments. The thief had never been baptized,
nor had he partaken of the Lord’s Supper. It is obvious that had he lived he would have carried
out the requirements of his Lord by accepting these sacraments. He did, in fact, boldly confess
his faith in the presence of a hostile crowd and amid the taunts and jeers of rulers and soldiers,
yet he was saved without any formal rites.

It is further evident that salvation is independent of good works. The thief was pardoned before
he had lived a single, righteous, innocent day. Of course, good works follow faith; they evidence
its reality; but faith precedes and results in holiness. A life of goodness is an expression
of gratitude for salvation already begun.

It is further evident that there is no “sleep of the soul.” The body may sleep, but consciousness
persists after death. The word of the Master was, “To-day shalt thou be ... in Paradise.” Again
it is evident that there is no “purgatory.” If any man ever needed discipline and “purifying
fires,” it was this penitent robber. Out of a life of sin and shame he passed immediately into
a state of blessedness. This was the promise: “To-day shalt thou be with me in Paradise.”

Again it may be remarked that salvation is not universal. There were two robbers; only one
was saved. Jesus had heard them both speaking of him. He did not say “ye,” but “Verily I say
unto thee, To-day shalt thou be with me in Paradise.”

Last of all, it may be noted that the very essence of the joy which lies beyond death consists
in personal communion with Christ. The heart of the promise to the dying thief was this: “Thou
shalt be with me.” This is our blessed assurance, that to depart is “to be with Christ,” which
is “very far better.”

J. The Death And Burial. Ch. 49 And all his acquaintance,
    and the women that followed with him from Galilee, stood afar off,
    seeing these things. 53 And he took it down, and wrapped it in a
    linen cloth, and laid him in a tomb that was hewn in stone, where
    never man had yet lain. 54 And it was the day of the Preparation,
    and the sabbath drew on.

The death of Christ was an event of such supreme importance that it properly was accompanied
by supernatural signs of deep significance. Of these Luke mentions two. The first was the darkened
skies, a fit symbol of the blackest crime in all the history of man. The second was the rending
of the Temple veil, a type of the “new and living way” opened into the presence of God for
all believers. Thus these two signs correspond to the human and the divine aspects of this
atoning death, and indicate the heinousness of sin and the purpose of redeeming grace.

The last word spoken by Jesus on the cross was an expression of perfect trust and peace. He
had shown his sympathy for others by his prayer, by his promise to the penitent thief, and
by his provision for his mother; by three other words he had revealed his sufferings of mind
and body and their result in a completed redemption: “My God, my God ...”; “I thirst;” “it
is finished.” He now breathed out his soul in a sentence of absolute confidence taken from
the psalmist and recorded by Luke alone: “Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit.” It was
the supreme utterance of faith. The earthly ministry of the Son of God had ended.

Luke notes the effects produced by the manner of Jesus’ death, and by the accompanying signs
upon the Roman centurion, the Jewish multitudes, and the Christian disciples. The soldier was
so impressed that he “glorified God,” giving his testimony to the fact that the One whom he
had crucified as a criminal was a “righteous man.” Possibly he may be regarded as a type of
that host of believing Gentiles, of whom Luke liked to write, who were yet to enlist under
the banner of the cross.

The crowds of Jews had little real desire for the crucifixion of Jesus; they had been hounded
by their rulers to cry out for his death, but they now returned to the city “smiting their
breasts” in an agony of remorse, a prophecy of Israel’s future repentance and mourning as they
“look on him whom they pierced.”

Most pathetic of all was that group of saddened disciples who “stood afar off” gazing in bewilderment
upon the scene; but for them the meaning of that cross would begin to dawn as they should meet
their risen Lord. For none of his followers has the cross lost its mystery; yet to them all
it has become a symbol of triumph and of hope.

The body of Jesus was given burial by Joseph of Arimathæa, a man whom Matthew designates as
rich, Mark as a “councillor of honorable estate,” and Luke as “good and righteous.” Thus together
they describe an ideal man from the Jewish and Roman and Greek point of view. Perhaps he is
to be criticized for not having identified himself before this more publicly with the cause
of Christ; but Luke makes not the slightest unfavorable reflection upon his character. He declares
definitely that this powerful and influential member of the sanhedrin “had not consented” to
the “counsel and deed” of the rulers who had compassed the death of Jesus; and now in the hour
when his Master was most deeply dishonored, he risked the scorn of the people and the hatred
of the rulers and begged from Pilate the body of Jesus, which he wrapped in linen cloth and
lay reverently in his own new, rock-hewn tomb. It was a deed of loving devotion, and adds a
gratifying contrast and a touch of tenderness to the story of the cross.

Other loving hearts longed to have a part in this expression of affection. The women who had
followed Jesus out of Galilee, noted the place of his burial and purchased perfumes to embalm
the body of their Lord. However, as the declining sun marked the beginning, at eventide, of
the Sabbath, they rested until the first day of the week, and then they found that their task
was needless. It was well to show affection for the crucified Master, it is a greater privilege
to serve a risen Lord.

K. The Empty Tomb. Ch. 4 And it came to pass,
    while they were perplexed thereabout, behold, two men stood by
    them in dazzling apparel: 5 and as they were affrighted and bowed
    down their faces to the earth, they said unto them, Why seek ye
    the living among the dead? 12 But Peter arose, and ran unto the tomb; and
    stooping and looking in, he seeth the linen cloths by themselves;
    and he departed to his home, wondering at that which was come to
    pass.

After seeing where Jesus was buried the women who had followed him from Galilee and had ministered
to him, began preparing spices and ointments with which to embalm his body. However, as the
day drew to its close, because this Friday evening was the beginning of a Jewish Sabbath, they
rested from their labor of love until Sunday, “the first day of the week,” and then “at early
dawn” they came to the tomb, but were astonished to find that the body of Jesus was gone.

There are several explanations of this empty tomb, but only one which is credible and which
accords with the facts. Some persons profess to believe that Jesus did not die, that he only
swooned upon the cross, that he regained consciousness after being laid in the tomb, that he
escaped and then appeared to his disciples; but Jesus had declared that he was to die and was
to rise again on the third day, and he afterwards made his disciples believe that such an experience
had been his; this theory, therefore, cannot be held without denying the honesty and morality
of our Lord.

A second theory maintains that “his disciples came by night, and stole” away his body; but
these disciples continually declared that he rose from the dead on the third day; according
to this theory, then, these disciples were impostors; but this can be believed by no one familiar
with their subsequent lives and influence.

It is as impossible to believe the third theory namely, that the enemies of Jesus stole his
body, for had that body been in their possession, how gladly they would have produced it and
thus forever have silenced the disciples who declared that Jesus was alive and that his resurrection
proved these enemies had put to death an innocent Man, their divine Messiah.

The only true explanation of this empty tomb is that given to the wondering women by two angels:
“Why seek ye the living among the dead? He is not here, but is risen: remember how he spake
unto you when he was yet in Galilee.” This startling statement of the angels embodies the substance
of the message delivered by the apostles. The truth it declares forms the corner stone of Christian
faith. The resurrection of our Lord is vitally connected with all the realities which relate
to his person and work and to the life of his followers.

When, however, the fact of the resurrection had been reported to the apostles, they regarded
the words of the women “as idle talk, and they disbelieved them.” This incredulity on the part
of the apostles shows the absolute absurdity of another theory advanced by those who deny the
resurrection of our Lord, namely, the theory that his followers so eagerly expected him to
rise from the dead that their fevered brains finally imagined that he had so risen and they
testified to what was only a product of their own fancy. In reality the disciples did not expect
Jesus to rise, and, as here recorded, when the truth was reported to them, they refused to
accept it until proof upon proof had been given them and doubt and unbelief became absolutely
impossible. They were prepared, however, for further proofs by the fact that the tomb in which
the body was laid had been found empty. There is even more weighty evidence of the resurrection;
but those who deny this supremely important event must give first some rational account of
this empty tomb.

L. The Walk To Emmaus. Ch. 24:13-35

    13 And behold, two of them were going that very day to a village
    named Emmaus, which was threescore furlongs from Jerusalem. 24 And
    they communed with each other of all these things which had
    happened. 15 And it came to pass, while they communed and
    questioned together, that Jesus himself drew near, and went with
    them. 16 But their eyes were holden that they should not know him.
    17 And he said unto them, What communications are these that ye
    have one with another, as ye walk? And they stood still, looking
    sad. 21
    But we hoped that it was he who should redeem Israel. Yea and
    besides all this, it is now the third day since these things came
    to pass. And he went in
    to abide with them. 30 And it came to pass, when he had sat down
    with them to meat, he took the bread and blessed; and breaking
    it he gave to them. 31 And their eyes were opened, and they knew
    him; and he vanished out of their sight. 35 And they
    rehearsed the things that happened in the way, and how he was
    known of them in the breaking of the bread.

No man saw Christ rise; but many saw the risen Christ. He appeared to Mary and to Peter and
to James and to “the eleven” and to more than five hundred disciples at one time; but of the
appearances on the day of his resurrection none is recorded with more dramatic vividness and
more definiteness of detail than that related by Luke when Jesus walked with two disciples
toward Emmaus.

This village was probably situated some seven miles northwest of Jerusalem. Thither these two
men were moving with sad and discouraged hearts when Jesus joined them and drew from them expressions
of their disappointment and despair. The One on whom they had set their hopes of redemption
for Israel had been put to death, and although he had spoken mysteriously of a resurrection
on the third day, the day was passing, and he had not been seen, although it was true that
reports had reached them of a vision of angels who said that he was alive. Such in substance
seem to have been their words, in no small measure a confession of obstinate unbelief. They
had little expectation that the Lord would fulfill his own promises; the third day of which
he had spoken was not ended and yet they were hopelessly turning their backs upon Jerusalem;
heavenly messengers had sent them an announcement of cheer which they refused to receive. Behooved
it not the Christ to suffer these things, and to enter into his glory?” It is noticeable that
Jesus did not chide them for refusing to accept his own words, or those of their friends, or
those of angels; they were rebuked for not believing the Old Testament. They had accepted it
in part; as men often accept just so much as suits their prejudices and tastes and notions;
but they failed to believe in all that the prophets had spoken, and particularly the predictions
of Jesus’ atoning death, and of his return to the heavenly glory which he would share when
he ascended. They listened in wonder to his explanation of the Scriptures, and finally as they
were sitting at meat with him they discovered that they were in the actual presence of their
living Lord. As he disappeared from sight, they hastened back to the disciples in Jerusalem
and found them already wondering at the news that earlier in the day Jesus had appeared to Peter.

No story tells us more impressively the truth that a divine Saviour walks beside us all the
way of our earthly journey. It is pathetic that our eyes are so often dimmed by unbelief that
we fail to realize his presence. We walk and are sad while we might be rejoicing in his companionship.
It may be as the Scriptures are opened to us, or as we meet to break bread in his name, that
our blindness will be removed; and surely when the journey ends and we enter the home toward
which we are moving, we shall see him face to face, and the vision will not fade in deepening
twilight, but grow more glorious through the eternal day.

M. Jesus Appearing To The Apostles. Ch. 38 And he said unto them, Why are ye troubled? and
    wherefore do questionings arise in your heart? 40 And when he
    had said this, he showed them his hands and his feet. 41 And while
    they still disbelieved for joy, and wondered, he said unto them,
    Have ye here anything to eat? 42 And they gave him a piece of a
    broiled fish. 43 And he took it, and ate before them.

The incidents of the day on which Jesus rose from the dead, as recorded by Luke, form not only
a sequence in time, but also move in logical order. The empty tomb can be explained by no other
theory than that of a resurrection; but this was only negative proof. To it was added the actual
appearance of Jesus to two disciples on their way to Emmaus. Yet this was not evidence enough.
Some persons might believe that such an appearance had been a mere vision, a phantom, a ghost;
therefore, as Luke relates the appearance of Jesus to the eleven disciples in the upper room,
after night had fallen, he lays stress upon the fact that Jesus appeared in bodily form. When
the disciples saw him they thought that they did see a mere specter, an apparition, a spirit,
just as many persons have thought, even to the present day; but to forever dispel such a false
impression, Jesus, by every possible appeal to the senses, made it evident that he possessed
not an “immaterial,” or “spiritual,” or “celestial” body, but the identical body of flesh and
blood which on Friday had been crucified and laid in the tomb; in that actual body, scarred
by the cruel nails, a body capable of eating food, a material body which could be touched and
felt, he appeared to his disciples. Moreover, he solemnly declared that he was not a disembodied
spirit; he showed them the wounds in his hands and feet; he declared that a spirit does not
have flesh and bones which they saw he had; and finally, to remove every lingering doubt, he
took “a piece of a broiled fish” and “ate before them.” The appearances and disappearances
of Jesus after his resurrection may have been mysterious or miraculous as was his walking upon
the sea in the days of his previous ministry; but he gave his disciples to understand by every
conceivable, sensible sign that he had risen from the dead in his actual, physical, human body.
The theory that the resurrection can be explained as a hallucination, a vision, or an apparition
is forever silenced by the testimony of Luke, the careful historian, the intelligent physician.
Upon the foundation of the established fact of a literal, bodily resurrection, this superstructure
of our Christian faith firmly stands.

N. The Last Words. Ch.

It need not be supposed that the last words of Jesus as recorded by Luke were spoken on the
day of the resurrection or at any one time or place. They more probably indicate the general
substance of those teachings which are given by the risen Christ to his disciples during the
forty days between his resurrection and his ascension.

They are luminous with truths which are needed by the disciples of Christ to-day. Among them
are such facts as these: The Scriptures contain authoritative messages concerning Christ; these
messages can be understood only by those who believe in Christ and are guided by him; the essential
truths concerning Christ center in the facts of his death and resurrection; in virtue of the
salvation thus secured, repentance and forgiveness of sins can be preached; this salvation
is to be proclaimed in all the world; the followers of Christ are the messengers by whom this
good news is to be made known; the power for such proclamation is imparted by the Spirit of
Christ who was manifested in new power on the Day of Pentecost, and who is now an abiding Presence
and a source of limitless strength to all who seek to do the will of Christ and to glorify
his name.

O. The Ascension. Ch.

The ascension of our Lord was an event quite distinct from the resurrection; it occurred nearly
six weeks later, and indicates a number of supremely important truths.

1. Jesus then withdrew from the sphere of the seen and physical to the sphere of the unseen
and spiritual. He did not pass up or down through vast spaces of the skies. We are not to think
of him as far away. He is an unseen, divine Presence, superior to the limitations of time and
space, and capable of being manifest in any period or place. The ascension should make us feel
that Jesus is near rather than far away.

2. Jesus then assumed universal power; not at the time of his resurrection, but at the time
of his ascension, he was seated “on the right hand of the Majesty on high.” This indicates
divine omnipotence. It is the continual representation of the New Testament that Jesus Christ
has all authority in heaven and on earth. The ascension should therefore remind us of the limitless
power of Christ.

3. It was therefore at the time of the ascension that Jesus entered “into his glory.” Then
it was that his body was transformed, made deathless, “spiritual,” celestial, immortal; and
then he again began to share the divine glory which he had with the Father “before the world
was.” The ascension, therefore, is a pledge and type of the glory which yet awaits his followers.
It is an assurance that he yet will fulfill his promises and will again appear; emerging from
the sphere of the unseen he will be manifested to all mankind as both the ideal Man and as
the Saviour of the world.

