          This particular sail plan is very easy to mark
          out. Lay your material out on a table or smooth
          surface and pin it down with drawing-pins,
          sufficiently stretching it so as to pull out any
          creases. The length of the back edge of the
          mainsail (which is called the leech) is measured
          off 1-1/4 inches inside the edge of the cloth, and
          a curve struck as illustrated. The other two sides
          of the mainsail are then laid off and pencil lines
          drawn. You will note that allowance must be made
          for hemming the back edge of the mainsail. If your
          sewing-machine has a hemmer, find out how wide a
          hem it makes (the smaller the better), and make
          allowance accordingly, twice the width of the hem
          being necessary. Much depends upon the tension at
          which the machine is set, so be careful that the
          latter is sufficiently slack so that it does not
          draw up the material.

          The jib is marked out in the same manner, and, as
          illustrated, the lines representing the positions
          of the batten sleeves are drawn. The batten
          sleeves are small pockets into which thin pieces
          of cane (called battens) are inserted to help the
          sail to set nicely. Unless the sail is a good cut
          to begin with, however, the insertion of these
          battens will never make it right. The sails should
          now be cut out with a sharp penknife or scissors,
          care being taken not to pull the cloth, and
          especially not along the edges that run across the
          threads. You then hem the backs and also the foot
          of the jib. The batten sleeves (which should be of
          white satin ribbon about 3/8 inch in width) should
          now be sewn on by stitching down along the extreme
          edge to the line drawn, and then down the other
          edge, the ends being left open. A strip of narrow
          tape is sewn across the foot of the jib-sail to
          take the strain of the pull, the part of the jib
          contained by the curve of the foot and the tape
          being known as the bonnet of the jib.

          To prevent the edges of the sails (other than
          those hemmed) being stretched, you bind them with
          good tape. The tape is first folded and creased
          by rubbing over an edge. The end of the tape is
          then turned in. Take a corner of the sail and
          place it inside the fold of the tape, care being
          taken to get the raw edge right up against the
          crease. The needle of the machine should then be
          lowered through it as near to the edge of the tape
          as practicable, taking care that it goes through
          both edges. Keeping a slight pull on the binding,
          arrange the cloth in it without pulling the edge.
          Put the foot of the machine down and sew it,
          afterward raising the foot again and proceeding as
          before right around the raw edges of the sail,
          leaving the needle down each time the foot is
          raised. Do not sew where a batten sleeve passes
          under the binding, as you will require the former
          left open to allow the batten to pass into the
          fold of the binding. The rings for putting up the
          luffs of the jib- and main-sail are made by
          winding a piece of thin brass or German silver
          wire around a steel rod (the spokes used in the
          keel being suitable for the latter) and sawing
          down to divide them.