General Smith was then at exactly the right age, and had already achieved such a high reputation
as a scientific and competent soldier, that he was called upon after only a few weeks' service
as a brigade commander to take charge of a division of three brigades. Looking about him with
anxious care for a suitable successor, he assigned the Vermont Brigade to the command of Brigadier
General William T.H. Brooks, a graduate of West Point from Ohio, but a grandson of Vermont.
He was a veteran of the Mexican and Indian Wars, in which he had gained great experience, and
from which he became justly famous as one of the finest soldiers of his time. A man of striking
countenance, great physical vigor and dauntless courage, he was an ideal leader of the Vermont
men and at once won their confidence and respect. It is one of the traditions of the times
that under him "The Iron Brigade," as it soon came to be known throughout the army, was never
repulsed and never failed to accomplish the task before it. Its "skirmish line" was believed
to be "stronger than an old-fashioned line of battle," and when it covered the advance, the
column behind it had to put forth its best efforts to keep up. From the brigadier general to
the lowest private, they not only knew their business, but just when they should be called
upon to take the lead. It was one of the grizzled privates during the pursuit of Lee from the
field of Gettysburg, who perceiving that the cavalry was making but poor progress, said from
the ranks as General Sedgwick was passing: "I 'low you want to get to Williamsport tonight,
don't you, Uncle John?" "Yes, my man," said the General. "Well, in that case you had better
put the Vermont brigade to the front!" The suggestion was at once adopted, and under the sturdy
advance which followed the desired camp was reached that night without a check or a halt by
the way.

The other two brigades of Smith's division were commanded, respectively, by Windfield Scott
Hancock and Isaac I. Stevens, two soldiers of the highest quality, and both destined to achieve
undying fame. When their subsequent career is considered it may well be doubted if there was
ever a division in the Union army commanded by abler men than Hancock, Stevens, Brooks and
Baldy Smith. During the formative period of the Army of the Potomac, when all were drilling,
all studying tactics, all teaching guard duty and all striving hard to establish a satisfactory
state of military discipline, Smith varied this irksome work by an occasional review, or by
the still more exciting exercise of a reconnaissance in force, thus adding practice to precept,
and bringing regiments and brigades to act coherently together. In all this he handled his
division skillfully and well, and consequently soon had the satisfaction of showing those in
authority over him that it was in admirable spirits and condition.

How far he favored the policy of delay for the purpose of increasing the army's strength and
perfecting its organization is not certainly known, but it must be admitted on his own testimony
that he belonged to the coterie of officers who fully trusted and supported McClellan in the
determination to make complete preparation before moving against the enemy. Nor is it known
what part he took in the selection of the line of operations ultimately adopted by McClellan
for the capture of Richmond. Perhaps this is not important, for neither the duty nor the responsibility
of the choice was his. It is not likely, however, that he was consulted for his acquaintance
with McClellan was not at first close or intimate. At a later period he joined his friend General
Franklin, then generally acknowledged as one of the leading military men of the day, in a letter
to the President recommending the transfer of the Army of the Potomac from the vicinity of
Fredericksburg to the James River, as near to Richmond as practicable, and urging its reinforcement
by all the troops that could be gathered from the departments of the Atlantic seaboard. Without
discussing here the origin or the wisdom of this controverted proposition, it may be remarked
that it was supported by such an array of arguments and influence as would doubtless have secured
another trial for it, even in the face of its failure under McClellan, had the condition and
strength of the army, and the resources of the country been considered by the administration
sufficient to meet all the requirements of the civil and military situation.

At a still later period after General Grant had come to the head of military affairs, had decided
to take personal charge of operations in Virginia, and was seriously considering the appointment
of General Smith to the immediate command of the Army of the Potomac, it became known to me,
through a letter from the latter, that he strongly favored a "powerful movement from the lower
James River, or even from the sounds of North Carolina" against the interior of the Confederacy.
I was at that time serving in Washington, as the Chief of the Cavalry Bureau, and upon receipt
of the letter laid it before General Rawlins, Grant's able Chief of Staff, but without giving
it my concurrence or approval, for such consideration as he might think best to give it. It
was received at a juncture when the selection of a proper plan of operations was conceded to
be a matter of the gravest importance. It is an interesting fact that the plan in question
did not receive the support of Rawlins, although both he and Grant, fresh from the victory
of Chattanooga, were warm friends and admirers of General Smith as a strategist. Rawlins, with
unerring instinct, took strong grounds against it, for the reason, as he vigorously expressed
it, that he could not see the sense of going so far, and taking so much time to find Lee with
a divided army, when he could be reached within a half day's march directly to the front, with
the entire army united and reinforced by all the men the government had at its disposal. Knowing
that this was Grant's argument as well, I have always supposed that his final decision to advance
directly from Culpepper Court House against Lee's army, and to retain Meade in immediate command
of the Army of the Potomac, while the entire available force of Butler's Department should
advance directly from Fort Monroe under the immediate command of General Smith, was due partly
to Smith's decided opposition to the overland line of operations, and to his tenacious adherence
to the principal features of the plan which he and Franklin had recommended to Lincoln. Meade's
approval of the direct line of advance, and his cheerful support of Grant's plans as explained
in detail, aided by Butler's assurances of hearty co-operation, doubtless had much to do with
the retention of those officers in their respective places, and in the assignment of Smith,
much to his disappointment, to a relatively subordinate position on the line he had so openly
preferred. It may also account in some degree for the failure of those distinguished generals
to work as harmoniously with each other to the common end, as was necessary to ensure success.

Before following this interesting subject to its conclusion, the part actually played by General
Smith in McClellan's Peninsular Campaign should be briefly recounted. After the Army of the
Potomac had been transferred to the lower Chesapeake, by water, instead of landing at Urbana
or on the estuary of the Rappahannock, as was at first intended, out of fear of the Merrimac,
which had played such havoc with the wooden frigates of Goldborough's fleet, in Hampton Roads,
it was disembarked at Fortress Monroe. It necessarily lost some time here before it could be
reunited and begin its march up the Peninsula. It had hardly got well under way, when much
to the disappointment of the country it found itself stopped for thirty days, by an insignificant
stream and a weak line of entrenchments held by a few guns and a single division of Confederate
Infantry, under the command of General Magruder.

The so-called "Siege of Yorktown" followed, and General Smith, chafing at the delay which he
conceived to be unnecessary set about studying the situation in his own front, with the keen
eye of an experienced engineer. Having the year before familiarized himself with the lay of
the land near Fort Monroe, he was quick to grasp every condition which favored an advance.
A careful reconnaissance of his immediate front enabled him to surprise a crossing of Warwick
River and to carry a section of the fortified line beyond. This as might have been expected
was done by a detachment of the Vermont Brigade, which made a gallant effort to maintain the
lodgement it had gained, but as it was not supported by McClellan, it was withdrawn after suffering
a loss of 165 men killed, wounded and missing. This was the first engagement in a campaign
destined to cost the lives of many brave men and to end in a terrible disaster to the national
arms.

After making a heroic stand and holding McClellan and his overwhelming force at bay for nearly
a month, Magruder abandoned his lines and fell back to Williamsburgh on the road up the Peninsula
to Richmond. He was slowly followed by McClellan's army. Smith's division having crossed the
Warwick at Lee's mill, led in the pursuit, coming up with the enemy strongly posted in a new
line of fortifications covering the town of Williamsburg. Smith's engineering skill and his
quick intelligence served him again most fortunately, and with the aid of Captain West of the
Coast Survey then serving on his staff, soon enabled him to find the weak spot in the enemy's
position. This time it turned out to be on the extreme left, where he had failed, probably
through lack of troops, to occupy the extensive works which had been previously constructed.
Realizing intuitively the futility of a front attack against such entrenchments, Smith threw
Hancock's brigade promptly to the right and under cover of the woods, succeeded without serious
loss or delay in occupying one of the works from which, with his division he could easily have
swept the whole line had he not been restrained by the presence of his seniors.

Unfortunately McClellan was in the rear, but Sumner and Heintzelman, corps commanders, were
soon upon the ground, and with prudent but ill-timed conservatism declined to sanction the
proper movement to reinforce Hancock, for fear that it would bring on a general engagement
before the army could be properly closed up and placed in position to participate. Smith recognizing,
the great advantage certain to arise from pushing promptly through the opening he had already
found, besought Sumner for permission to go with the rest of his division to Hancock's assistance,
but this was also denied. As other troops arrived on the field, Smith moved to the right to
make place for them, with the hope that he might be permitted to continue his march unobserved
till he had come up with his advanced brigade, but orders were sent which arrested him before
he had accomplished the object he had in view. All day long he was held in the leash with certain
victory in sight. McClellan arrived on the field late in the afternoon, but before he could
get a satisfactory understanding of the condition of affairs, night came on. Consequently nothing
decisive was done that day and a great opportunity was lost. The wily Magruder, seeing that
his left had been turned, and that his position was untenable, abandoned his works under cover
of darkness and fell back towards Richmond. Obviously this result was due, first, to the fortunate
discovery made by General Smith and his engineer, and to the successful turning movement of
Hancock, based thereon; and, second, to the certainty that if properly reinforced by the rest
of Smith's division, and by other divisions, if necessary, as it surely would be as soon as
the national commander had come to comprehend the real condition of affairs, the Confederate
forces would be taken in flank and rear and overwhelmed.

This was Smith's last chance at anything like independent action. During the remainder of this
ill-starred campaign he played the part of a subordinate division commander, in a large army
engaged in a complicated series of movements and battles, and of course had no control over
the general plans or operations. There is no evidence that he was ever consulted by anyone
except his corps commander Franklin who was himself also a subordinate. The army lacking field
experience, did not work well together as a whole. The corps commanders had been selected and
appointed by the Secretary of War, without reference to McClellan's wishes or recommendations.
Several of them were veterans, who received their assignments because of seniority rather than
for special aptitudes, and this naturally begot a disposition on the part of the division commanders,
who were generally younger and perhaps more ambitious men, to look carefully after their own
troops and leave larger affairs to their seniors. At all events, Smith's principal care henceforth
was to handle his own division and look out exclusively for its requirements, and this he did
prudently and well, especially during the Seven days' battle, and during the change of base
from the York to the James River. His brigades, led as I have pointed out, by very able men,
were more or less constantly and successfully engaged. They took a most creditable part in
the battles of Golding's Farm, Savage Station and White Oak Swamp.

Throughout the whole of this trying time of incessant marching and fighting Smith remained
watchful and wary, directing his division through every peril, and finally conducting it, without
material loss, but with increased confidence in itself and in its leader, to the new base which
had been selected for the army. His cool and confident bearing, and his skillful conduct throughout
this campaign, won for him the brevet of Lieutenant Colonel in the regular army and the rank
of Major General of Volunteers.

It was during the night march from Malvern Hill that General Smith encountered General Fitz-John
Porter, his class-mate whom he always regarded as a first-class soldier, and with whom upon
this occasion he had a conversation, the facts of which go far to justify this high estimate.
Noting that Porter seemed greatly depressed he asked what was the matter. In reply, Porter
told him that as soon as he had become certain the evening before that the enemy had been broken
and beaten back from his reckless attack on the Union lines at Malvern Hill, and had withdrawn
in disorder from the field, he had gone to McClellan on board the boat which he had occupied
with his headquarters, and had begged him with all the arguments he could bring to bear, and
all the force he could command, to assume the offensive at dawn. He said he had spent half
the night in advocacy of this policy, expressing the confident belief that if adopted it would
result, not only in the destruction of Lee's army, but in the capture of Richmond. He had no
doubt that our own army, encouraged by the sanguinary repulse it had finally inflicted upon
the enemy, would respond to every demand which could be made upon it, and would thus turn a
series of indecisive combats, which the country would surely regard as defeats, into a magnificent
victory. Smith's testimony shows this splendid conception to have been no afterthought with
Porter, as it was with many who subsequently came to understand the facts of the case, but
coming as it did hot from a desperate battle field, must be regarded as the inspiration of
true military genius, while the fact that McClellan rejected it must always be considered as
the best possible evidence of his unreadiness to meet great emergencies. Smith does not say
specifically that he approved it, but the context of his narrative leaves but little doubt
that he thought favorably of it and would have given it hearty support.

In the withdrawal of the Army of the Potomac from the Peninsula, and its transfer to Washington,
as ordered by Halleck and the Secretary of War, Smith and his division necessarily played a
subordinate part. With the rest of the army they formed a tardy junction with Pope in front
of Washington, and did their share towards making the capital safe and unassailable, but they
were not again engaged till they met the enemy in the bloody and successful action at Crampton's
Gap, in the South Mountain. The division also took part three days later in the battle of Antietam,
but notwithstanding McClellan's claim that the battle was a "master piece of art," neither
Smith's troops, nor the corps to which they belonged, were seriously engaged. This was not
the fault of either Franklin or Smith, both of whom were greatly displeased with the disjointed
and irresolute manner in which the Union forces were handled and the battle was fought. The
most that can be said is that both General Smith and his division did all that was asked of
them, not only in the battle of Antietam, but in following Lee's army back to Virginia. These
operations are now justly regarded as reflecting but little credit on the generalship by which
the national army was controlled during that period of its history. While they ended McClellan's
military career, they afforded but little chance for any of his subordinates to gain distinction,
and those who escaped responsibility for supporting his policy of delay had good reasons to
regard themselves as fortunate.

The withdrawal of McClellan and the accession of the weak and vacillating Burnside to command
was followed by a re-arrangement of the Army of the Potomac into three grand divisions, and
a re-assignment of leading generals. Franklin was placed in command of the Third Grand Division,
consisting of the First Corps under General Reynolds, and the Sixth Corps under General Smith.
In the abortive Fredericksburg campaign which followed, these corps had the extreme left of
the Union line, but it should have been evident from the start that with the opposing armies
separated by a broad river occupying a deep valley, from three-quarters of a mile to a mile
and a half between the opposite crests, the movement which was to bring on the battle must
necessarily be fought under extraordinary disadvantages to the attacking army. In the mind
of those who were to carry out the details of the movements, success must have seemed hopeless
from the first. Burnside was from the beginning of the campaign overcome by the weight of his
responsibilities, and between tears at one time and lack of sleep at another, his fatuous mind
failed to evolve for itself, or to accept from others a definite and comprehensive plan of
operations. He seemed at successive times to have had hopes of surprising Lee, of breaking
his center and overwhelming his left, of seizing two important points in his main line of defence
and completely turning his left, but withal it is certain that he gave to none of these operations
sufficient attention to justify the slightest hope that it could be successfully carried into
effect.

On the other hand, Lee was on the alert with his army of 78,000 men, well and compactly posted
in a commanding and almost impregnable position along the wooded heights which overlooked Fredericksburg
and the valley of the Rappahannock from the south. Burnside had 113,000 men of all arms, well
supplied and thoroughly organized, commanded by the ablest generals in the service. His preponderance
of force was therefore close to fifty per cent., but unfortunately that was not enough to outweigh
the natural and artificial obstacles, the heights, stone walls, entrenchments, open fields
and river to be overcome by the advancing army. The task was a hopeless one from the start,
and to make matters worse, Burnside, who at best had but a vague and uncertain comprehension
of the work before him, seems to have lost what little head he was endowed with before his
operations were fully under way.

The result was unfortunate in the extreme. Two Grand Divisions succeeded in crossing the river
without material opposition, but at once found themselves confronted by difficulties and forces
they could not overcome. Franklin, in compliance with his instructions, took two days to get
into position, but when his two corps had reached the place assigned them on the old Richmond
Road, with the aid of Smith and Reynolds, he looked over the ground and made up his mind that
the only chance of victory was offered by an assault upon the enemy's right center, with the
full force of his two corps, amounting to 40,000 men. Burnside, at his invitation, came to
that part of the field, and after listening to the views of the three generals, either of whom
was vastly his superior as a soldier, approved the plan and promised to give a written order
for its execution. Franklin waited all night for the order, telegraphed twice, and finally
sent a staff officer for it, but it never came. Indeed it was never issued but a different
order directing him to seize the heights at Hamilton's House, nearly three miles from his right
division, and to keep the whole of his command in readiness to move at once, was sent instead.
Sumner received an order equally inane, in reference to Marye's Heights. The resulting operations
which should have been carefully co-ordinated and vigorously supported, were weak and indecisive.
As the day wore away Lee took advantage of the delays and the opportunities which they offered
him, and assumed the offensive. There was much severe but desultory and disconnected fighting.
The Union generals with their officers and men did their best, but Burnside was on the opposite
side of the river and could neither give intelligent orders nor act promptly upon the suggestions
which were sent to him from the field. There was no chance for maneuvering. It was from the
first head-on, face-to-face fighting with no hope of victory for the assailants. The Union
losses were over 12,500 men killed, wounded and missing, of which 4,962 belonged to Franklin's
Grand Division, while Jackson's corps which confronted him lost 5,364.

A full description of this mid-winter campaign would be out of place in this sketch, and the
same may be said of the abortive Mud Campaign six weeks later, which had for its object the
passage of the Rappahannock by a movement above Fredericksburg. Both Franklin and Smith took
part in this ill planned and poorly executed undertaking. The weather and the roads were against
it, and it soon came to an end quite as pitiful, though not so costly, as its predecessor.

Following these failures, Burnside, in futile desperation, prepared an order relieving Franklin,
Smith and several other officers of inferior rank from duty, and dismissing Hooker, Brooks,
Newton and Cochrane from the service. He made no further charge against these officers than
that they had no confidence in himself, and this much was probably true, but it would have
been equally as true of any other generals serving at that time in the Army of the Potomac.
The President, instead of approving the order, it should he noted, at once relieved Burnside
and assigned Hooker to the command. Sumner and Franklin both of whom outranked Hooker were
relieved from further service with that army, while Smith was transferred to the command of
the Ninth Corps, which he held but a short time, owing to the failure of the Senate to confirm
him as a major general. This was doubtless brought about by misrepresentation, made to the
Senate committee on the Conduct of the War, but as the action of the Senate and its committees
in reference to confirmations were secret, no correct explanation can now he given of the allegations
against Smith, though they were generally attributed at the time to Burnside and his friends,
and while they were neither properly investigated nor supported, they resulted in reducing
Smith to the rank of brigadier general and depriving him of the high command which he would
have otherwise continued to hold.

It is worthy of note that before these changes were made, and while the Army of the Potomac
was still floundering in the mud under the inefficient command of Burnside, Franklin and Smith
joined in the letter previously referred to, advising the President to abandon the line on
which the Army was then operating, with such ill success, and after reinforcing it to the fullest
extent, to send it back again to the line of the James River. This letter was doubtless written
in entire good faith, but at a time when it seemed to be impossible for the government, even
if it had so desired, to carry out its recommendations. Its only immediate effect was to arouse
the antagonism of Mr. Stanton against these two able officers, and to deprive the country for
a while of their services. A wiser and more temperate Secretary of War would have filed and
ignored it, or sent for the officers and explained why he deemed their advice to be impracticable
at that time. That, however, was not Mr. Stanton's way. Although intensely patriotic and in
earnest, he was imperious and overbearing both to high and low alike, and preferred to banish
and offend rather than to listen and conciliate.

The winter of 1862-3 is now by common consent regarded as the darkest period of the war for
the Union. The failure of Burnside's plans and the defeat of Hooker at Chancellorsville severely
tried the discipline and organization of the Army of the Potomac, and filled the loyal North
with alarm, while it correspondingly encouraged the Confederate government and raised the confidence
of its army. As soon as the winter was over and the roads were settled Lee assumed the initiative,
drove Hooker back from the Rappahannock, crossed the Potomac, advanced confidently to Chambersburg
and pushed his cavalry as far north as Harrisburg and York.

Hooker had also proven himself to be incompetent, and desperate as the measure was, the Washington
government relieved him in the midst of an active campaign, and entrusted the army and its
fortunes to the direction of Major General George G. Meade, a gallant and able soldier, who
checked the high tide of rebellion at Gettysburg on the 2nd and 3rd of July, 1863. During this
campaign Smith, who was on leave of absence when it began, made haste to offer his services,
without conditions, and was at once sent to Harrisburg to assist Major General Couch, who had
been assigned to the command of the Pennsylvania and New York militia. Taking command of an
improvised division, he moved against the enemy, then threatening Carlisle, with all the assurance
of a veteran, and while the prompt retreat of the enemy prevented any severe engagement, the
movement was entirely efficacious. With the true instincts of a soldier he pressed on in the
direction of the Confederate army, and took part in its pursuit from Gettysburg back to Virginia.
Curiously enough, instead of commending and thanking him and his raw troops for their gallant
services, the Secretary of War ordered his arrest for taking his command beyond the limits
of Pennsylvania, for the special defence of which the militia had been called out, but fortunately
the remonstrance of General Couch caused this order to be recalled, and the gallant but unappreciated
general again withdrew from the field, as soon as the scare was over and his forces were permitted
to return to their homes.

It will be remembered that the news of Lee's defeat and his retreat from Gettysburg reached
the country on the 4th of July, and that the same day was made triply memorable by the capture
of Vicksburg with Pemberton's entire army of 30,000 men with all their guns and ammunitions.
These two striking events threw the country into the wildest enthusiasm. Even the most despondent
now became confident that the Southern Confederacy would soon be destroyed, and that the triumphant
Union would be finally re-established. But this confidence was destined to be rudely shaken.

Later in the summer, taking advantage of the lull in operations elsewhere, the Confederate
leaders sent Longstreet's splendid corps of veterans from Virginia, and that part of Johnston's
army which had been paroled, together with such detachments as could be got from Alabama, to
reinforce Bragg, who had been driven by Rosecrans from Middle Tennessee to Northern Georgia.
Turning fiercely upon his over-confident pursuer, as soon as his reinforcements were at hand,
Bragg struck a staggering blow at Chickamauga, which not only came near giving Chattanooga
back to him, but filled the northern states with consternation. The war was not only not ended,
but had burst forth with renewed vigor. Reinforcements in large numbers were hurried forward
from all parts of the country to Chattanooga. Hooker, with Howard's and Slocum's corps, was
sent out by rail from Virginia, while the greater part of Grant's Army of the Tennessee was
withdrawn from the lower Mississippi, where it was resting after the capture of Vicksburg,
and marched over-land from Memphis to the same place. The separate departments in the Mississippi
Valley were consolidated into a military grand division, under the supreme command of General
Grant, and what turned out to be of almost equal importance was the fact that Brigadier General
William F. Smith was relieved from service in West Virginia, where he had been recently assigned
to duty, and sent to contribute his part towards strengthening the national grasp upon the
vast region of which Chattanooga was justly considered the strategic center.

Whatever the government at that time may have thought of him as a commander of troops, it is
certain that it was willing to recognize and use his experience and marked intellectual resources
as an engineer officer to their fullest extent. As it turned out, it could not have paid him
a greater compliment, nor given him a better opportunity for distinction. His fame had gone
before him, and on his arrival at Chattanooga, although he preferred the command of troops,
he was assigned at once to duty as Chief Engineer of the Department and Army of the Cumberland.
Fortunately this gave him the control, not only of the engineer troops and materials, and the
engineer operations of that army, but carried with it the right and duty of knowing the army's
condition and requirements as well as all the plans which might be considered for extricating
it from the extraordinary perils and difficulties which surrounded it.

Although efforts have been made at various times and by various writers, to minimize these
perils and difficulties, it cannot be denied that the situation of that army was at that epoch
an exceedingly grave one. It had been rudely checked, if not completely beaten, in one of the
most desperate and bloody battles of the war, and shut up in Chattanooga by Bragg's army on
the south, and by an almost impassable mountain region on the north and west. Its communication
by rail with its secondary base at Bridgeport, and with its primary base at Nashville, had
been broken by the Confederate cavalry and rendered most uncertain. Its supplies were scanty
and growing daily less, while its artillery horses and draft mules were dying by hundreds,
for lack of forage. The only safe wagon roads to the rear were by a long and circuitous route
through the mountains north of the Tennessee River, which was besides so rough and muddy that
the teams could haul hardly enough for their own subsistence, much less an adequate supply
for the troops.

All the contemporary accounts go to show that Rosecrans, while personally brave enough, was
himself more or less confused and excited by the great disaster which had overtaken his army
at Chickamauga. He had been cut off and greatly shaken by the overthrow of his right wing,
and consequently retired with it to Chattanooga. Notwithstanding this unfortunate withdrawal
and his failure to rejoin the organized portion of his army, which under General George H.
Thomas, held on firmly to its position against every attack, those who knew Rosecrans best
still believed him to be a most loyal and gallant gentleman who was anxious and willing to
do all that could be done to save his army and maintain its advanced position. But there is
no satisfactory evidence that up to the time he turned over his command to his successor, he
had formed any adequate or comprehensive plan for supplying it or getting it ready to resume
the offensive. Every general in it knew that it needed and must have supplies, and that the
only way to get them, without falling back, was to open and keep open the direct road or "cracker
line" to Bridgeport. But how and when this was to be done was the great question.

Much has been written upon this subject; a military commission has had it under consideration;
the records have been consulted; a report has been made, and comments upon it have been issued
by General Smith and his friends. Even the late Secretary of War, Elihu Root, has passed judgment
upon it, and yet it can be safely said that nothing has been done to disturb the conclusion
reached at the time, that General Smith in consultation with his superiors worked out the plan
as to how, when and by what means the short supply line by the way of Brown's Ferry and the
Lookout Valley should he opened and maintained. He certainly secured its adoption first by
Thomas and afterwards by Grant, and finally when he had arranged all the details of the complicated
and delicate operations, and had prepared all engineer's materials and pontoons which were
required, he personally commanded the troops and carried that part of the plan which was based
on Chattanooga, to a successful conclusion.

When it is remembered that Rosecrans had left Chattanooga, that he had been succeeded by Thomas,
and that Grant himself had arrived on the ground and assumed supreme command, before the first
practical step had been taken to carry the plan into effect, and that the plan itself involved
a descent and passage of the Tennessee River by night, the defeat and capture of the enemy's
outposts, the laying of a pontoon bridge across a broad and rapid river, the rebuilding of
the railroad, and its maintenance within easy reach of the enemy's front for twenty-five miles,
and that all of this was done without the slightest mishap and with but little loss, and that
it resulted in relieving the army from want and in putting it in condition to resume the offensive
as soon as its reinforcements had arrived, some fair idea may be had of the value of General
Smith's services and the part he actually performed in all that took place. If General Rosecrans
had actually conceived and worked out all the details of the plan, which cannot be successfully
claimed, there would still be enough left to the credit of General Smith to immortalize him,
but when Grant, Thomas and all the other officers who were present and in position to know
what was actually done gave Smith the praise, not only for conceiving it, but carrying the
plan into successful effect, there is but little room left for further controversy.

If any additional testimony is needed as to the masterful part played by Smith at Chattanooga,
it is found in the fact that Grant made haste to attach him to his own staff and to recommend
him for promotion to the grade of major-general to take rank from the date of his original
appointment, declaring in support of his recommendation that he felt "under more than ordinary
obligations for the masterly manner in which he discharged the duties of his position." Later
he recommended that Smith be put first of all the army on the list for promotion, adding: "He
is possessed of one of the clearest military heads in the army, is very practical and industrious,"
and emphasized it all with the highly eulogistic declaration that "no man in the army is better
qualified than he for the largest military commands."

It is noteworthy that about the same time General Butler with whom he had served for a short
season, made an application to have General Smith re-assigned to his command, but the Secretary
of War, having evidently forgotten his order for Smith's arrest at the close of the Gettysburg
campaign, wrote: "The services of William F. Smith, now Chief Engineer in the Army of the Cumberland,
are indispensable in that command, and it will be impossible to assign him to your Department."
But this was not all. General George H. Thomas, the soul of honor and fair dealing on the 20th
of November, 1863, although General Smith had already been transferred from his own to the
staff of General Grant, formally recommended him for promotion in the following striking and
comprehensive words:

     "For industry and energy displayed by him from the time of
     his reporting for duty at these headquarters, in organizing
     the Engineer Department, and for his skillful execution of
     the movements at Brown's Ferry, Tennessee, on the night of
     October 26th, 1863, in surprising the enemy and throwing a
     pontoon bridge across the Tennessee River at that point, a
     vitally important service necessary to the opening of
     communications between Bridgeport and Chattanooga."

Certainly no language could be more clear and unequivocal than this, and yet, as though General
Thomas wished to remove all chance of doubt as to whom the highest credit was due, he declared
in a later and more formal official report:

     "To Brigadier General William F. Smith, Chief Engineer,
     should be accorded great praise for the ingenuity which
     conceived and the ability which executed the movements at
     Brown's Ferry."

